{"id": "2279537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279537", "title": "The Chinnocks", "text": "The Chinnocks\n\nThe Chinnocks are three villages in Somerset, England, south west of Yeovil in the South Somerset district:\n\nThe origin of the name Chinnock is uncertain. It may be derived from the Old English \"cinu\" meaning \"ravine\" or \"cinn\" meaning \"a chin shaped hill\", with the addition of \"ock\" meaning \"little\". An alternative derivation may be an old hill-name of Celtic origin.\n\nThe three villages have been separate since at least 1066. East Chinnock and West Chinnock are some 3 km apart. Middle Chinnock is close to West Chinnock, and since 1884 has been in the civil parish of West Chinnock, now named West and Middle Chinnock.\n\nThe three parishes were part of the hundred of Houndsborough.\n"}
{"id": "2279544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279544", "title": "Women in computing", "text": "Women in computing\n\nWomen were among the first programmers in the early 20th century, and contributed substantially to the industry. As technology and practices altered, the role of women as programmers has changed, and the recorded history of the field has downplayed their achievements.\n\nSince the 18th century, women have developed scientific computations, including Nicole-Reine Lepaute's prediction of Halley's Comet, and Maria Mitchell's computation of the motion of Venus. The first algorithm intended to be executed by a computer was designed by Ada Lovelace who was a pioneer in the field. Grace Hopper was the first person to design a compiler for a programming language. Throughout the 19th and early 20th century, and up to World War II, programming was predominantly done by women; significant examples include the Harvard Computers, codebreaking at Bletchley Park and engineering at NASA.\n\nAfter the 1960s, the \"soft work\" that had been dominated by women evolved into modern software, and the importance of women decreased. The gender disparity and the lack of women in computing from the late 20th century onward has been examined, but no firm explanations have been established. Nevertheless, many women continued to make significant and important contributions to the IT industry, and attempts were made to readdress the gender disparity in the industry. In the 21st century, women held leadership roles in multiple tech companies, such as Meg Whitman, president and chief executive officer of Hewlett Packard Enterprise, and Marissa Mayer, president and CEO of Yahoo! and key spokesperson at Google.\n\nNicole-Reine Etable de la Brière Lepaute was one of a team of human computers who worked with Alexis-Claude Clairaut and Joseph-Jérôme Le Français de Lalande to predict the date of the return of Halley's Comet. They began work on the calculations in 1757, working throughout the day and sometimes during mealtimes. Their methods were followed by successive human computers. They divided large calculations into \"independent pieces, assembled the results from each piece into a final product\" and then checked for errors. Lepaute continued to work on computing for the rest of her life, working for the \"Connaissance de Temps\" and publishing predictions of solar eclipses.\n\nOne of the first computers for the American \"Nautical Almanac\" was Maria Mitchel. Her work on the assignment was to compute the motion of the planet Venus. The \"Almanac\" never became a reality, but Mitchell became the first astronomy professor at Vassar.\n\nAda Lovelace was the first person to publish an algorithm intended to be executed by the first modern computer, the Analytical Engine created by Charles Babbage. As a result, she is often regarded as the first computer programmer. Lovelace was introduced to Babbage's difference engine when she was 17. In 1840, she wrote to Babbage and asked if she could become involved with his first machine. By this time, Babbage had moved on to his idea for the Analytical Engine. A paper describing the Analytical Engine, \"Notions sur la machine analytique\", published by L.F. Menabrea, came to the attention of Lovelace, who not only translated it into English, but corrected mistakes made by Menabrea. Babbage suggested that she expand the translation of the paper with her own ideas, which, signed only with her initials, AAL, \"synthesized the vast scope of Babbage's vision.\" Lovelace imagined the kind of impact of the Analytical Engine might have on society. She drew up explanations of how the engine could handle inputs, outputs, processing and data storage. She also created several proofs to show how the engine would handle calculations of Bernoulli Numbers on its own. The proofs are considered the first examples of a computer program. Lovelace downplayed her role in her work during her life, for example, in signing her contributions with AAL so as not be \"accused of bragging.\"\n\nAfter the Civil War in the United States, more women were hired as human computers. Many were war widows looking for ways to support themselves. Others were hired when the government opened positions to women because of a shortage of men to fill the roles.\nAnna Winlock asked to become a computer for the Harvard Observatory in 1875 and was hired to work for 25 cents an hour. By 1880, Edward Charles Pickering had hired several women to work for him at Harvard because he knew that women could do the job as well as men and he could ask them to volunteer or work for less pay. The women, described as \"Pickering's harem\" and also as the Harvard Computers, performed clerical work that the male employees and scholars considered to be tedious at a fraction of the cost of hiring a man. The women working for Pickering cataloged around ten thousand stars, discovered the Horsehead Nebula and developed the system to describe stars. One of the \"computers,\" Annie Jump Cannon, could classify stars at a rate of three stars per minute. The work for Pickering became so popular that women volunteered to work for free even when the computers were being paid. Even though they performed an important role, the Harvard Computers were paid less than factory workers.\n\nBy the 1890s, women computers were college graduates looking for jobs where they could use their training in a useful way. Florence Tebb Weldon, was part of this group and provided computations relating to biology and evidence for evolution, working with her husband, W.F. Raphael Weldon. Florence Weldon's calculations demonstrated that statistics could be used to support Darwin's theory of evolution. Another human computer involved in biology was Alice Lee, who worked with Karl Pearson. Pearson hired two sisters to work as part-time computers at his Biometrics Lab, Beatrice and Frances Cave-Brown-Cave.\n\nDuring World War I, Karl Pearson and his Biometrics Lab helped produce ballistics calculations for the British Ministry of Munitions. Beatrice Cave-Brown-Cave helped calculate trajectories for bomb shells. In 1916, Cave-Brown-Cave left Pearson's employ and started working full-time for the Ministry. In the United States, women computers were hired to calculate ballistics in 1918, working in a building on the Washington Mall. One of the women, Elizabeth Webb Wilson, worked as the chief computer. After the war, women who worked as ballistics computers for the U.S. government had trouble finding jobs in computing and Wilson eventually taught high school math.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Iowa State College, professor George Snedecor worked to improve the school's science and engineering departments, experimenting with new punch-card machines and calculators. Snedecor also worked with human calculators most of them women, including Mary Clem. Clem coined the term \"zero check\" to help identify errors in calculations. The computing lab, run by Clem, became one of the most powerful computing facilities of the time.\n\nWomen computers also worked at the American Telephone and Telegraph company. These human computers worked with electrical engineers to help figure out how to boost signals with vacuum tube amplifiers. One of the computers, Clara Froelich, was eventually moved along with the other computers to their own division where they worked with a mathematician, Thornton Fry, to create new computational methods. Froelich studied IBM tabulating equipment and desk calculating machines to see if she could adapt the machine method to calculations.\n\nEdith Clarke was the first woman to earn a degree in electrical engineering and who worked as the first professionally employed electrical engineer in the United States. She was hired by General Electric as a full engineer in 1923. Clarke also filed a patent in 1921 for a graphical calculator to be used in solving problems in power lines. It was granted in 1925.\n\nThe National Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (NACA) which became NASA hired a group of five women in 1935 to work as a computer pool. The women worked on the data coming from wind tunnel and flight tests.\n\n\"Tedious\" computing and calculating was seen as \"women's work\" through the 1940s resulting in the term \"kilogirl\", invented by a member of the Applied Mathematics Panel in the early 1940s. A kilogirl of energy was \"equivalent to roughly a thousand hours of computing labor.\" While women's contributions to the United States war effort during World War II was championed in the media, their roles and the work they did was minimized. This included minimizing the complexity, skill and knowledge needed to work on computers or work as human computers. During WWII, women did most of the ballistics computing, seen by male engineers as being below their level of expertise. Black women computers worked as hard (or more often, twice as hard) as their white counterparts, but in segregated situations. By 1943, almost all people employed as computers were women.\n\nNACA expanded its pool of women human computers in the 1940s. NACA recognized in 1942 that \"the engineers admit themselves that the girl computers do the work more rapidly and accurately than they could.\" In 1943 two groups, segregated by race, worked on the east and west side of Langley Air Force Base. The black women were the West Area Computers. Unlike their white counterparts, the black women were asked by NACA to re-do college courses they had already passed and many never received promotions.\n\nWomen were also working on ballistic missile calculations. In 1948, women such as Barbara Paulson were working on the WAC Corporal, determining trajectories the missiles would take after launch.\n\nWomen worked with cryptography and, after some initial resistance, many operated and worked on the Bombe machines. Joyce Aylard operated the Bombe machine testing different methods to break the Enigma code. Joan Clarke was a cryptographer who worked with her friend, Alan Turing, on the Enigma machine at Bletchley Park. When she was promoted to a higher salary grade, there were no positions in the civil service for a \"senior female cryptanalyst,\" and she was listed as a linguist instead. While Clarke developed a method of increasing the speed of double-encrypted messages, unlike many of the men, her decryption technique was not named after her. Other cryptographers at Bletchley included Margaret Rock, Mavis Lever (later Batey), Ruth Briggs and Kerry Howard. In 1941, Batey's work enabled the Allies to break the Italians' naval code before the Battle of Cape Matapan. In the United States, several faster Bombe machines were created. Women, like Louise Pearsall, were recruited from the WAVES to work on code breaking and operate the American Bombe machines.\n\nHedy Lamarr and co-inventor, George Antheil, worked on a frequency hopping method to help the Navy control torpedoes remotely. The Navy passed on their idea, but Lamarr and Antheil received a patent for the work on August 11, 1942. This technique would later be used again, first in the 1950s at Sylvania Electronic Systems Division and is used in everyday technology such as Bluetooth and Wi-Fi.\nThe programmers of the ENIAC computer in 1944, were six female mathematicians; Marlyn Meltzer, Betty Holberton, Kathleen Antonelli, Ruth Teitelbaum, Jean Bartik, and Frances Spence who were human computers at the Moore School's computation lab. Adele Goldstine was their teacher and trainer and they were known as the \"ENIAC girls.\" The women who worked on ENIAC were warned that they would not be promoted into professional ratings which were only for men. Designing the hardware was \"men's work\" and programming the software was \"women's work.\" Sometimes women were given blueprints and wiring diagrams to figure out how the machine worked and how to program it. They learned how the ENIAC worked by repairing it, sometimes crawling through the computer, and by fixing \"bugs\" in the machinery. Even though the programmers were supposed to be doing the \"soft\" work of programming, in reality, they did that and fully understood and worked with the hardware of the ENIAC. When the ENIAC was revealed in 1946, Goldstine and the other women prepared the machine and the demonstration programs it ran for the public. None of their work in preparing the demonstrations was mentioned in the official accounts of the public events. After the demonstration, the university hosted an expensive celebratory dinner to which none of the ENIAC six were invited.\n\nIn Canada, Beatrice Worsley started working at the National Research Council of Canada in 1947 where she was an aerodynamics research officer. A year later, she started working in the new Computational Centre at the University of Toronto. She built a differential analyzer in 1948 and also worked with IBM machines in order to do calculations for Atomic Energy of Canada Limited. She went to study the EDSAC at the University of Cambridge in 1949. She wrote the program that was run the first time EDSAC performed its first calculations on May 6, 1949.\n\nGrace Hopper was the first person to create a compiler for a programming language and one of the first programmers of the Harvard Mark I computer, an electro-mechanical computer based on Analytical Engine. Hopper's work with computers started in 1943, when she started working at the Bureau of Ordnance's Computation Project at Harvard where she programmed the Harvard Mark I. Hopper not only programmed the computer, but created a 500-page comprehensive manual for it. Even though Hopper created the manual, which was widely cited and published, she was not specifically credited in it. Hopper is often credited with the coining of the term \"bug\" and \"debugging\" when a moth caused the Mark II to malfunction. While a moth was found and the process of removing it called \"debugging,\" the terms were already part of the language of programmers.\n\nGrace Hopper continued to contribute to computer science through the 1950s. She brought the idea of using compilers from her time at Harvard to UNIVAC which she joined in 1949. Other women who were hired to program UNIVAC included Adele Mildred Koss, Frances E. Holberton, Jean Bartik, Frances Morello and Lillian Jay. To program the UNIVAC, Hopper and her team used the FLOW-MATIC programming language, which she developed. Holberton wrote a code, C-10, that allowed for keyboard inputs into a general-purpose computer. Holberton also developed the Sort-Merge Generator in 1951 which was used on the UNIVAC I. The Sort-Merge Generator marked the first time a computer \"used a program to write a program.\" Holberton suggested that computer housing should be beige or oatmeal in color which became a long-lasting trend. Koss worked with Hopper on various algorithms and a program that was a precursor to a report generator.\n\nKlara Dan von Neumann was one of the main programmers of the MANIAC, a more advanced version of ENIAC. Her work helped the field of meteorology and weather prediction.\n\nThe NACA, and subsequently NASA, recruited women computers following World War II. By the 1950s, a team was performing mathematical calculations at the Lewis Research Center in Cleveland, Ohio, including Annie Easley, Katherine Johnson and Kathryn Peddrew. At the National Bureau of Standards, Margaret R. Fox was hired to work as part of the technical staff of the Electronic Computer Laboratory in 1951. In 1956, Gladys West was hired by the U.S. Naval Weapons Laboratory as a human computer. West was involved in calculations that let to the development of GPS.\n\nAt Convair Aircraft Corporation, Joyce Currie Little was one of the original programmers for analyzing data received from the wind tunnels. She used punch cards on an IBM 650 which was located in a different building from the wind tunnel. To save time in the physical delivery of the punch cards, she and her colleague, Maggie DeCaro, put on roller skates to get to and from the building faster.\n\nIn Israel, Thelma Estrin worked on the design and development of WEIZAC, one of the world's first large-scale programmable electronic computers. In the Soviet Union the IT industry was dominated by women; a team of them designed the first digital computer in 1951. In the UK, Kathleen Booth worked with her husband, Andrew Booth on several computers at Birkbeck College. Kathleen Booth was the programmer and Andrew built the machines. Kathleen developed Assembly Language at this time. Kateryna Yushchenko created the Address programming language for the MESM in 1955.\n\nMilly Koss who had worked at UNIVAC with Hopper, started work at Control Data Corporation (CDC) in 1965. There she developed algorithms for graphics, including graphic storage and retrieval.\n\nMary K. Hawes of Burroughs Corporation set up a meeting in 1959 to discuss the creation a computer language that would be shared between businesses. Six people, including Hopper, attended to discuss the philosophy of creating a common business language (CBL). Hopper became involved in developing COBOL (Common Business Oriented Language) where she innovated new symbolic ways to write computer code. Hopper developed programming language that was easier to read and \"self-documenting.\" After COBOL was submitted to the CODASYL Executive Committee, Betty Holberton did further editing on the language before it was submitted to the Government Printing Office in 1960. IBM were slow to adopt COBOL, which hindered its progress but it was accepted as a standard in 1962, after Hopper had demonstrated the compiler working both on UNIVAC and RCA computers. The development of COBOL led to the generation of compilers and generators, most of which were created or refined by women such as Koss, Nora Moser, Deborah Davidson, Sue Knapp, Gertrude Tierney and Jean E. Sammet.\n\nSammet, who worked at IBM starting in 1961 was responsible for developing the programming language, FORMAC. She published a book, \"Programming Languages: History and Fundamentals\" (1969), which was considered the \"standard work on programming languages,\" according to Denise Gürer It was \"one of the most used books in the field,\" according to \"The Times\" in 1972.\nBetween 1961 and 1963, Margaret Hamilton began to study software reliability while she was working at the US SAGE air defense system. In 1965, she was responsible for programming the software for the onboard flight software on the Apollo mission computers. After Hamilton had completed the program, the code was sent to Raytheon where \"expert seamstresses\" called the \"Little Old Ladies\" actually hardwired the code by threading copper wire through magnetic rings. Each system could store more than 12,000 words that were represented by the copper wires.\n\nIn 1964, the British Prime Minister Harold Wilson announced a \"White-Hot\" revolution in technology, that would give greater prominence to IT work. As women still held most computing and programming positions at this time, it was hoped that it would give them more positive career prospects. In 1965, Sister Mary Kenneth Keller became the first American woman to earn a doctorate in computer science. Keller helped develop BASIC while working as a graduate student at Dartmouth, where the university \"broke the 'men only' rule\" so she could use its computer science center.\n\nChristine Darden began working for NASA's computing pool in 1967 having graduated from the Hampton Institute. Women were involved in the development of Whirlwind, including Judy Clapp. She created the prototype for an air defense system for Whirlwind which used radar input to track planes in the air and could direct aircraft courses.\n\nIn 1969, Elizabeth \"Jake\" Feinler, who was working for Stanford, made the first Resource Handbook for ARPANET. This led to the creation of the ARPANET directory, which was built by Feinler with a staff of mostly women. Without the directory, \"it was nearly impossible to navigate the ARPANET.\"\n\nBy the end of the decade, the general demographics of programmers had shifted away from being predominantly women, as they had before the 1940s. Though women accounted for around 30 to 50 percent of computer programmers during the 1960s, few were promoted to leadership roles and women were paid significantly less than their male counterparts. \"Cosmopolitan\" ran an article in the April 1967 issue about women in programming called \"The Computer Girls.\" Even while magazines such as \"Cosmopolitan\" saw a bright future for women in computers and computer programming in the 1960s, the reality was that women were still being marginalized. \n\nIn the early 1970s, Pam Hardt-English led a group to create a computer network they named Resource One and which was part of a group called Project One. Her idea to connect Bay Area bookstores, libraries and Project One was an early prototype of the Internet. To work on the project, Hardt-English obtained an expensive SDS-940 computer as a donation from TransAmerica Leasing Corporation in April 1972. They created an electronic library and housed it in a record store called Leopold's in Berkeley. This became the Community Memory database and was maintained by hacker, Jude Milhon. After 1975, the SDS-940 computer was repurposed by Sherry Reson, Mya Shone, Chris Macie and Mary Janowitz to create a social services database and a Social Services Referral Directory. Hard copies of the directory, printed out as a subscription service, were kept at city buildings and libraries. The database was maintained and in use until 2009.\n\nIn the early 1970s, Elizabeth \"Jake\" Feinler, who worked on the Resource Directory for ARPANET, and her team created the first WHOIS directory. Feinler set up a server at the Network Information Center (NIC) at Stanford which would work as a directory that could retrieve relevant information about a person or entity. She and her team worked on the creation of domains, with Feinler suggesting that domains be divided by categories based on where the computers were kept. For example, military computers would have the domain of .mil, computers at educational institutions would have .edu. Feinler worked for NIC until 1989.\n\nJean E. Sammet served as the first woman president of the Association for Computing Machinery (ACM), holding the position between 1974 and 1976.\n\nAdele Goldberg was one of seven programmers that developed Smalltalk in the 1970s, and wrote the majority of the language's documentation. It was one of the first object-oriented programming languages the base of the current graphic user interface, that has its roots in the 1968 The Mother of All Demos by Douglas Engelbart. Smalltalk was used by Apple to launch Apple Lisa in 1983, the first personal computer with a GUI, and a year later its Macintosh. Windows 1.0, based on the same principles, was launched a few months later in 1985.\n\nIn the late 1970s, women such as Paulson and Sue Finley wrote programs for the Voyager mission. Voyager continues to carry their codes inside its own memory banks as it leaves the solar system. In 1979, Ruzena Bajcsy founded the General Robotics, Automation, Sensing and Perception (GRASP) Lab at the University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn the mid-70s, Joan Margaret Winters began working at IBM as part of a \"human factors project,\" called SHARE. In 1978, Winters was the deputy manager of the project and went on to lead the project between 1983 and 1987. The SHARE group worked on researching how software should be designed to consider human factors.\n\nErna Schneider Hoover developed a computerized switching system for telephone calls that would replace switchboards. Her software patent for the system, issued in 1971, was one of the first software patents ever issued.\n\nGwen Bell developed the Computer Museum in 1980. The museum, which collected computer artifacts became a non-profit organization in 1982 and in 1984, Bell moved it to downtown Boston. Adele Goldberg served as president of ACM between 1984 and 1986. In 1986, Lixia Zhang was the only woman and graduate student to participate in the early Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) meetings. Zhang was involved in early Internet development. In 1982, Marsha R. Williams became the first African American woman to earn a Ph.D. in computer science.\n\nSometimes known as the \"Betsy Ross of the personal computer,\" according to the \"New York Times\", Susan Kare worked with Steve Jobs to design the original icons for the Macintosh. Kare designed the moving watch, paintbrush and trash can elements that made using a Mac user-friendly. Kare worked for Apple until the mid-1980s, going on to work on icons for Windows 3.0. Other types of computer graphics were being developed by Nadia Magnenat Thalmann in Canada. Thalmann started working on computer animation to develop \"realistic virtual actors\" first at the University of Montréal in 1980 and later in 1988 at the École Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne.\n\nIn the field of human–computer interaction (HCI), French computer scientist, Joëlle Coutaz developed the presentation-abstraction-control (PAC) model in 1987. She founded the User Interface group at the Laboratorire de Génie Informatique of IMAG where they worked on different problems relating to user interface and other software tools.\n\nAs Ethernet became the standard for networking computers locally, Radia Perlman, who worked at Digital Equipment Corporation (DEC), was asked to \"fix\" limitations that Ethernet imposed on large network traffic. In 1985, Perlman came up with a way to route information packets from one computer to another in an \"infinitely scalable\" way that allowed large networks like the Internet to function. Her solution took less than a few days to design and write up. The name of the algorithm she created is the Spanning Tree Protocol. In 1988, Stacy Horn, who had been introduced to bulletin board systems (BBS) through The WELL, decided to create her own online community in New York, which she called the East Coast Hang Out (ECHO). Horn invested her own money and pitched the idea for ECHO to others after bankers refused to hear her business plan. Horn built her BBS using UNIX, which she and her friends taught to one another. Eventually ECHO moved an office in Tribeca in the early 1990s and started getting press attention. ECHO's users could post about topics that interested them, and chat with one another, and were provided email accounts. Around half of ECHO's users were women. ECHO was still online as of 2018.\n\nEurope was somewhat behind other countries in developing an Internet infrastructure. A project was developed in the mid-1980s to create an academic network in Europe using the Open System Interconnection (OSI) standards. Borka Jerman Blažič, a Yugoslavian computer scientist was invited to work on the project. She was involved in establishing a Yugoslav Research and Academic Network (YUNAC) in 1989 and registered the domain of .yu for the country.\n\nComputer and video games became popular in the 1980s, but many were primarily action-oriented and not designed from a woman's point of view. Stereotypical characters such as the damsel in distress featured prominently and consequently were not inviting towards women. Dona Bailey designed \"Centipede\", where the player shoots insects, as a reaction to such games, later saying \"It didn't seem bad to shoot a bug\". Carol Shaw, considered to be the first modern female games designer, released a 3D version of tic-tac-toe for the Atari 2600 in 1980. Roberta Williams and her husband Ken, founded Sierra Online and pioneered the graphic adventure game format in \"Mystery House\" and the \"King's Quest\" series. The games had a friendly graphical user interface and introduced humor and puzzles. Cited as an important game designer, her influence spread from Sierra to other companies such as LucasArts and beyond. Brenda Laurel worked on porting games from arcade versions to the Atari 400 and Atari 800 computers in the late 1970s and early 1980s. She then went to work for Activision, writing the manual for \"Maniac Mansion\".\n\n1984 was the year of Women Into Science and Engineering (WISE). A 1984 report by Ebury Publishing reported that in a typical family, only 5% of mothers and 19% of daughters were using a computer at home, compared to 25% of fathers and 51% of sons. To counteract this, the company launched a series of software titles designed towards women and publicised in \"Good Housekeeping\". Anita Borg, who had been noticing that women were under-represented in computer science, founded an email support group, Systers, in 1987.\n\nBy the 1990s, computing was dominated by men. The proportion of female computer science graduates peaked in 1984 around 37 per cent, and then steadily declined. Although the end of the 20th century saw an increase in women scientists and engineers, this did not hold true for computing, which stagnated. Despite this, they were very involved in working on hypertext and hypermedia projects in the late 1980s and early 1990s. A team of women at Brown University, including Nicole Yankelovich and Karen Catlin, developed Intermedia and invented the anchor link. Apple partially funded their project and incorporated their concepts into Apple operating systems. Sun Microsystems Sun Link Service was developed by Amy Pearl. Janet Walker developed the first system to use bookmarks when she created the Symbolics Document Examiner. In 1989, Wendy Hall created a hypertext project called Microcosm, which was based on digitized multimedia material found in the Mountbatten archive. Cathy Marshall worked on the NoteCards system at Xerox PARC. NoteCards went on to influence Apple's HyperCard. As the Internet became the World Wide Web, developers like Hall adapted their programs to include Web viewers. Her Microcosm was especially adaptable to new technologies, including animation and 3-D models. In 1994, Hall helped organize the first conference for the Web.\n\nSarah Allen, the co-founder of After Effects, co-founded a commercial software company called CoSA in 1990. In 1995, she started working on the Shockwave team for Macromedia where she was the lead developer of the Shockwave Mulituser Server, the Flash Media Server and Flash video.\n\nFollowing the increased popularity of the Internet in the 1990s, online spaces were set up to cater for women, including the online community Women's WIRE and the technical and support forum LinuxChix. Women's WIRE, launched by Nancy Rhine and Ellen Pack in October 1993, was the first Internet company to specifically target this demographic. A conference for women in computer-related jobs, the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing, was first launched in 1994 by Anita Borg.\n\nGame designer Brenda Laurel started working at Interval Research in 1992, and began to think about the differences in the way girls and boys experienced playing video games. After interviewing around 1,000 children and 500 adults, she determined that games weren't designed with girls' interests in mind. The girls she spoke with wanted more games with open worlds and characters they could interact with. Her research led to Interval Research giving Laurel's research team their own company in 1996, Purple Moon. Also in 1996, Mattel's game, \"Barbie Fashion Designer\", became the first best-selling game for girls. Purple Moon's first two games based on a character called Rockett, made it to the 100 best-selling games in the years they were released. In 1999, Mattel bought out Purple Moon.\n\nJaime Levy created the one of the first e-Zines in the early 1990s, starting with \"CyberRag\", which included articles, games and animations loaded onto diskettes that anyone with a Mac could access. Later, she renamed the zine to \"Electronic Hollywood.\" Billy Idol commissioned Levy to create a disk for his album, \"Cyberpunk\". She was hired to be the creative director of the online magazine, \"Word\", in 1995.\n\nCyberfeminists, VNS Matrix, made up of Josephine Starrs, Juliane Pierce, Francesca da Rimini and Virginia Barratt, created art in the early 1990s linking computer technology and women's bodies. In 1997, there was a gathering of cyberfeminists in Kassel, called the First Cyberfeminist International.\n\nIn China, Hu Qiheng, was the leader of the team who installed the first TCP/IP connection for China, connecting to the Internet on April 20, 1994. In 1995, Rosemary Candlin went to write software for CERN in Geneva. In the early 1990s, Nancy Hafkin was an important figure in working with the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in enabling email connections in 10 African countries. Starting in 1999, Anne-Marie Eklund Löwinder began to work with Domain Name System Security Extensions (DNSSEC) in Sweden. She later made sure that the domain, .se, was the world's first top level domain name to be signed with DNSSEC.\n\nIn the late 1990s, research by Jane Margolis led Carnegie Mellon to try to correct the male-female imbalance in computer science.\n\nIn the 21st century, several attempts have been made to reduce the gender disparity in IT and get more women involved in computing again. A 2001 survey found that while both sexes use computers and the internet in equal measure, women were still five times less likely to choose it as a career or study the subject beyond standard secondary education. Journalist Emily Chang said a key problem has been personality tests in job interviews and the belief that good programmers are introverts, which tends to self-select the stereotype of an asocial white male nerd.\n\nIn 2004, the National Center for Women & Information Technology was established by Lucy Sanders to address the gender gap. Carnegie Mellon University has made a concerted attempt to increase gender diversity in the computer science field, by selecting students based on a wide criteria including leadership ability, a sense of \"giving back to the community\" and high attainment in maths and science, instead of traditional computer programming expertise. As well as increase the intake of women into CMU, the programme resulted in better quality students overall, as they found the increased diversity made for a stronger team.\n\nDespite the pioneering work of some designers, video games are still considered biased towards men. A 2013 survey by the International Game Developers Association revealed only 22% of game designers are women, although this is substantially higher than figures in previous decades. Working to bring inclusion to the world of open source project development, Coraline Ada Ehmke drafted the Contributor Covenant in 2014. By 2018, over 40,000 software projects have started using the Contributor Covenant, including TensorFlow, Vue and Linux. In 2014, Danielle George, professor at the School of Electrical and Electronic Engineering, University of Manchester spoke at the Royal Institution Christmas Lectures on the subject of \"how to hack your home\", describing simple experiments involving computer hardware and demonstrating a giant game of Tetris by remote controlling lights in an office building.\n\nIn 2017, Michelle Simmons founded the first quantum computing company in Australia. The team, which has made \"great strides\" in 2018, plans to develop a 10-qubit prototype silicon quantum integrated circuit by 2022. Also in 2017, Doina Precup became the head of DeepMind Montreal, working on artificial intelligence.\n\nOne of the biggest problems facing women in computing in the modern era is that they often find themselves working in an environment that is largely unpleasant, so they don't stay on in the careers in programming and technology. In 2013, a National Public Radio report said 20% of computer programmers in the US are female. There is no general consensus for any key reason there are less women in computing. In 2017, James Damore was fired from Google after claiming there was a biological reason for a lack of female computer scientists. The following year, Wikipedia was criticised for not having an article about scientist Donna Strickland until shortly after she won the Nobel Prize for Physics, which was attributed to a severe gender disparity of the site's editors.\n\nDame Stephanie Shirley using the name Steve Shirley addressed some of the problems facing women in computing in the UK by setting up the software company Freelance Programmers (later F.I, then Xansa now Steria Sopra) by offering the chance for women to work from home and part-time work\n\nIn 1991, Massachusetts Institute of Technology undergraduate Ellen Spertus wrote an essay \"Why Are There So Few Women in Computer Science?\", which complained about inherent sexism in IT, which was responsible for a lack of women in computing. She subsequently taught computer science at Mills College, Oakland in order to increase interest in IT for women. A key problem is a lack of female role models in the IT industry, alongside computer programmers in fiction and the media generally being male. The University of Southampton's Wendy Hall has said the attractiveness of computers to women decreased significantly in the 1980s when they \"were sold as toys for boys\", and believes the cultural stigma has remained ever since, and may even be getting worse. Kathleen Lehman, project manager of the BRAID Initiative at UCLA has said a problem is that typically women aim for perfection and feel disillusioned when code does not compile, whereas men may simply treat it as a learning experience. A report in the \"Daily Telegraph\" suggested that women generally prefer people-facing jobs, which many computing and IT positions do not have, while men prefer jobs geared towards objects and tasks.\n\nThe gender disparity in IT is not global. The ratio of female to male computer scientists is significantly higher in India compared to the West. In Europe, Bulgaria and Romania have the highest rates of women going into computer programming. In government universities in Saudi Arabia in 2014, Arab women made up 59% of students enrolled in computer science. However, the ratio of African American female computer scientists in the US is significantly lower than the global average. It has been suggested there is a greater gap in countries where people of both sexes are treated more equally, contradicting any theories that society in general is to blame for any disparity.\n\nThe Association for Computing Machinery Turing Award, sometimes referred to as the \"Nobel Prize\" of computing, was named in honor of Alan Turing. It award has been won by three women between 1966 and 2015.\n\nThe British Computer Society Information Retrieval Specialist Group (BCS IRSG) in conjunction with the British Computer Society created an award in 2008 to commemorate the achievements of Karen Spärck Jones, a Professor Emerita of Computers and Information at the University of Cambridge and one of the most remarkable women in computer science. The KSJ award has been won by four women between 2009 and 2017:\n\n\nThe Women in IT awards and computing women in IT awards showcases the achievements of women in the Information Technology Sector\n\nSeveral important groups have been established to encourage women in the IT industry. The Association for Women in Computing was one of the first and is dedicated to promoting the advancement of women in computing professions. The established in 1991 focused on increasing the number of women in Computer Science and Engineering (CSE) research and education at all levels. AnitaB.org runs the Grace Hopper Celebration of Women in Computing yearly conference. The National Center for Women & Information Technology is a nonprofit that aims to increase the number of women in technology and computing. The Women in Technology International (WITI) is a global organization dedicated to the advancement of women in business and technology. The Arab Women in Computing has many chapters across the world and focuses on encouraging women to work with technology and provides networking opportunities between industry experts and academicians and university students.\n\nSome major societies and groups have offshoots dedicated to women. The Association for Computing Machinery's Council on Women in Computing (ACM-W) has over 36,000 members. BCSWomen is a women-only specialist group of the British Computer Society, founded in 2001. In Ireland, the charity Teen Turn run after school training and work placements for girls, and Women in Technology and Science (WITS) advocate for the inclusion and promotion of women within STEM industries.\n\nThe Women's Technology Empowerment Centre (W.TEC) is a non-profit organisation focused on providing technology education and mentoring to Nigerian women and girls. Black Girls Code is a non-profit focused on providing technology education to young African-American women.\n\nOther organisations dedicated to women in IT include Girl Develop It, a nonprofit organization that provides affordable programs for adult women interested in learning web and software development in a judgment-free environment, Girl Geek Dinners, an International group for women of all ages, Girls Who Code: a national non-profit organization dedicated to closing the gender gap in technology, LinuxChix, a women-oriented community in the open source movement and Systers, a moderated listserv dedicated to mentoring women in the IT industry.\n\n\nCitations\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2279545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279545", "title": "Pineapple Poll", "text": "Pineapple Poll\n\nPineapple Poll is a Gilbert and Sullivan-inspired comic ballet, created by choreographer John Cranko with arranger Sir Charles Mackerras. \"Pineapple Poll\" is based on \"The Bumboat Woman's Story\", one of W. S. Gilbert's Bab Ballads, written in 1870. The Gilbert and Sullivan opera \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" was also based, in part, on this story. For the ballet, Cranko expanded the story of the Bab Ballad and added a happy ending. All the music is arranged from Sullivan's music.\n\nThe piece premiered in 1951 at Sadler's Wells Theatre and was given many revivals internationally during the following decades. It remains in the repertoire of the Birmingham Royal Ballet. It has also been recorded many times.\n\nMackerras and his family were Gilbert and Sullivan fans. As a youth, at the all-male St Aloysius College in Sydney, he played Kate in \"The Pirates of Penzance\", Leila in \"Iolanthe\" and Ko-Ko in \"The Mikado\". In 1941–42, while at the NSW State Conservatorium of Music, he played the oboe for the J. C. Williamson Company during one of their Gilbert and Sullivan seasons. He was also a rehearsal pianist for the Kirsova ballet company, where he became familiar with the successful ballets based on Offenbach, Strauss and Rossini music: \"Gaîté Parisienne\", \"Le Beau Danube\" and \"La Boutique fantasque\". He felt that a similar arrangement of the music of Sullivan would also be popular.\n\nHe had to wait a decade until the copyright on Sullivan's music expired at the end of 1950. Meanwhile, Mackerras had moved to London, studied conducting in Prague and, in 1948, become assistant conductor and repetiteur for Sadler's Wells Opera. Peggy van Praagh suggested that he work out the idea with the young choreographer John Cranko. Cranko expanded the plot of W. S. Gilbert's Bab Ballad \"The Bumboat Woman's Story\", in which the central character is named Poll Pineapple. The Gilbert and Sullivan opera \"H.M.S. Pinafore\" (especially its character Little Buttercup) was also based, in part, on this story. Cranko introduced new characters (Mrs Dimple) and gave Poll an admirer to enable a happy ending. Mackerras arranged the score of \"Pineapple Poll\" from the Gilbert and Sullivan repertoire, as well as Sullivan's comic opera \"Cox and Box\" (written with F. C. Burnand), and Sullivan's \"Overture di Ballo\". Music from all of the extant Gilbert and Sullivan operas is included, except for \"Utopia Limited\" and \"The Grand Duke\".\n\n\"Pineapple Poll\" premiered on 13 March 1951 at Sadler's Wells Theatre by the Sadler's Wells Ballet as part of the Festival of Britain. It was part of an evening of four Cranko ballets. The production was designed by Sir Osbert Lancaster, who later designed the 1971 D'Oyly Carte production of \"The Sorcerer\". The ballet was a critical and popular success Sadler's Wells also toured this in the US. The ballet was later produced by the Borovansky Ballet in 1954, Covent Garden in 1959, National Ballet of Canada in 1959, the Joffrey Ballet at City Center in New York Cilty in 1970, Noverre Ballet in 1972 and Oslo Ballet in 1975. In recent years, the ballet has fallen out of the professional ballet repertory in the US, although there was a revival in 2004 by Spectrum Dance Theater of Seattle, with new choreography by Donald Byrd, and it is it is sometimes played as an orchestral piece. The ballet is occasionally produced by amateur groups. In the UK, it remains in the repertoire of the Birmingham Royal Ballet, with a run of performances in 2006 and 2007 and a tour, including to Sadler's Wells Theatre, in 2011.\n\nThe score, or excerpts from it, has been recorded at least seven times, including four performances conducted by Mackerras himself. Gervase Hughes wrote, \"Although the orchestration is disfigured by over-reliance on \"glissando\" harps and succulent counter-subjects for the horns, much of the music comes over well in its new guise, and the combination of a melody from the opening chorus of \"Patience\" with the second act quintet from \"The Gondoliers\" is quite brilliant.\" A black-and-white studio film of \"Pineapple Poll\", danced by the Royal Ballet, with the London Symphony Orchestra conducted by Mackerras, was broadcast by BBC television in 1959. It starred Merle Park, David Blair and Stanley Holden. A DVD of this film was released in 2011 (also including \"The Lady and the Fool\"). A review in \"Musicweb International\" commented, \"As a score, [\"Pineapple Poll\"] quite simply sparkles like freshly popped champagne. ... In fact, this is a comic masterpiece. Any viewer will be impressed with the vivacious dancing and the 'built in' humour which pervades the work ... would that it had been in colour! The costumes look as if they would have been absolutely magnificent. ... [T]he studio-based performance means that there is a distinct lack of the atmosphere that an audience would have provided.\" Medici.tv also broadcast this film in 2011.\n\n\"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\" has arrived in Portsmouth, and the sailors, who are on shore leave, meet some pretty town's girls whom they like. Pineapple Poll then arrives with a basket of flowers. The sailors buy the flowers from Pineapple Poll to give to their girlfriends, some doing so reluctantly. Jasper, the 'pot boy' at the local inn, serves drinks to some of the sailors. Jasper is very interested in Pineapple Poll, but she haughtily rejects his proferred love.\n\nCaptain Belaye of \"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\" then arrives, and the sailors are horrified when their girlfriends swoon at the sight of the Captain. The sailors attempt to stop the girls, without success. Pineapple Poll also tries to capture the Captain's attention, but she does not have Jasper's restraining hand to stop her. When Captain Belaye is finally left alone, a girl (Blanche) arrives with her aunt (Mrs. Dimple). It is love at first sight for both the Captain and Blanche. Mrs. Dimple is initially opposed to the Captain's interest in her niece, but she finally relents.\n\nWhen Captain Belaye returns to the port, the town's girls and Pineapple Poll once again try to capture his interest. Captain Belaye manages to escape from the girls with much difficulty, and the girls are then left sighing after the Captain, while the members of his crew vent their anger against him.\n\nIt is nightfall, and some 'sailors' go up the gangplank to board the ship. Pineapple Poll arrives on the wharf with some naval clothes in which she then dresses herself (off-stage), following which Pineapple Poll also then goes up the gangplank to the ship.\n\nJasper arrives at the wharf and is devastated to find Pineapple Poll's clothes. He mistakenly assumes that Pineapple Poll has drowned. Despondently, he gathers up Pineapple Poll's clothing and leaves.\n\nThe following morning, on board \"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\", Captain Belaye is taking his 'crew' through drill. Although his 'crew' is dressed in the usual ship's uniforms, they are far smaller in build than usual – however, the Captain does not seem to realise that there is a disparity in their heights. The uniform which Pineapple Poll is wearing is not a uniform which a sailor would wear on board \"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\", and she continually exercises \"en pointe\", but the Captain appears oblivious to anything unusual about her as well. Captain Belaye also does not notice that his 'sailors' are looking up adoringly at him. When the cannon is fired, he is surprised at the reaction of the 'sailors', including Pineapple Poll (who faints at the sound). A church bell then tolls in the distance, and the Captain leaves the ship. A short while later, the Captain returns to the ship with Blanche (who is dressed as a bride) and Mrs. Dimple. The 'crew' all faint with shock. Pineapple Poll is the first to recover and to demonstrate to Captain Belaye that she is female. Then the other 'sailors' demonstrate that they, too, are female. Blanche is horrified, as is her aunt, at the ship's crew all being girls, and the Captain looks stunned.\n\nThe ship's genuine crew then arrive, as does Jasper. The sailors are very annoyed with their girlfriends, and the girls have to coax and cajole the sailors to take them back. Jasper has a tougher time with Pineapple Poll, who is still hankering after the Captain.\n\nBelaye, who has now been promoted to the rank of Admiral, returns to the deck with his bride, Blanche, and Blanche's Aunt, Mrs. Dimple. Pineapple Poll swoons at the sight of the Admiral, much to Jasper's distress. Mrs. Dimple calls to Jasper and then gives him the Admiral's former Captain's attire. Jasper puts on the Captain's hat and coat – and becomes the new Captain of \"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\" as a result (even though Jasper has never been a sailor), and Pineapple Poll's affections and interest are immediately transferred from the Admiral to Jasper. The sailors of \"H.M.S. Hot Cross Bun\" are most displeased that the 'pot boy' has suddenly been elevated to be their Captain, and they openly show their disdain for him.\n\nAll of the girls then return to the ship's deck, wearing their own clothes, and are welcomed back by their delighted boyfriends. The girls swoon at the sight of Jasper in his new Captain's uniform, but this time the sailors are able to keep their girlfriends in check, and all ends happily.\n\nMusic for the ballet is taken from eleven of the Gilbert and Sullivan operas, \"Cox and Box\" and the \"Overture di Ballo\", as specified below:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279551", "title": "Fivehead", "text": "Fivehead\n\nFivehead is a village and civil parish in Somerset, England, situated on the Fivehead River, east of Taunton in the South Somerset district. In 2011 the parish, which includes the hamlet of Swell, had a population of 609.\n\nThe name of the village comes from a Domesday manor which measured five hides (about .\n\nFivehead was part of the hundred of Abdick and Bulstone.\n\nSwell Court Farmhouse dates from the mid to late 15th century.\n\nCathanger manor house dates from 1559, with Langford Manor having been built around the same period.\n\nNearby was RAF Merryfield, a World War II airfield.\n\nThe parish council has responsibility for local issues, including setting an annual precept (local rate) to cover the council’s operating costs and producing annual accounts for public scrutiny. The parish council evaluates local planning applications and works with the local police, district council officers, and neighbourhood watch groups on matters of crime, security, and traffic. The parish council's role also includes initiating projects for the maintenance and repair of parish facilities, as well as consulting with the district council on the maintenance, repair, and improvement of highways, drainage, footpaths, public transport, and street cleaning. Conservation matters (including trees and listed buildings) and environmental issues are also the responsibility of the council.\n\nThe village falls within the Non-metropolitan district of South Somerset, which was formed on 1 April 1974 under the Local Government Act 1972, having previously been part of Langport Rural District. The district council is responsible for local planning and building control, local roads, council housing, environmental health, markets and fairs, refuse collection and recycling, cemeteries and crematoria, leisure services, parks, and tourism.\n\nSomerset County Council is responsible for running the largest and most expensive local services such as education, social services, libraries, main roads, public transport, policing and fire services, trading standards, waste disposal and strategic planning.\n\nFivehead is also part of a county constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elects one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election, and part of the South West England constituency of the European Parliament which elects seven MEPs using the d'Hondt method of party-list proportional representation.\n\nThere are two nearby Sites of Special Scientific Interest at Fivehead Arable Fields and Fivehead Woods and Meadow.\n\nThe Church of St. Catherine in Swell Lane dates from the 12th century, while the Church of St. Martin in the village is slightly more recent dating from the 13th century. Both are grade I listed buildings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279554", "title": "Ndendé", "text": "Ndendé\n\nNdendé is a town and capital of the Dola Department in Ngounié Province, southern Gabon. It is located 549 kilometres southeast of Libreville at the junction of the N1 and N6 roads. In 2006, the population was 6,346.\n"}
{"id": "2279557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279557", "title": "Northside High School (Fort Smith, Arkansas)", "text": "Northside High School (Fort Smith, Arkansas)\n\nNorthside High School (formerly known as Fort Smith High School) is one of two public high schools in the city of Fort Smith, Arkansas (the other being Southside High School), both of which are administered by the Fort Smith School District. Within the state, the school is commonly known as Fort Smith Northside.\n\nThe original Fort Smith High School completed construction in fall 1897 and was described as one of the \"Seven Wonders of Fort Smith\" with its English castle-style, buff-brick and grey-stone building until a deadly tornado nearly destroyed the building three months later January 11, 1898. Also in Fort Smith, Howard High School (1888) and Lincoln High School (1892), both black schools, ran until 1966.\n\nOn November 19, 1928, Fort Smith High School moved into a new building on 23rd and B Street in Fort Smith, Arkansas. The population of Fort Smith at the time was 31,400. The new building was dedicated on February 15, 1929, just before the mid-term class graduation could take place. The first year, 848 students enrolled in the high school (it could accommodate 3,000 students). With the new large building, many local organizations, as well as nationally known groups and individuals used the 1,060-seat auditorium for performances and other types of events. Since it was built, the auditorium has been visited by such famous people as Helen Olheim, opera singer with the Metropolitan Opera (1937–38); Carl Sandburg, poet, biographer and entertainer (1939–40); Margaret Bourke-White, war correspondent, photographer, author (1943–44); Nancy Gean, FSHS graduate and fashion analyst for Butterick (1947–48); Nelson Bennett, world-famous model for painters and sculptors (1965–66); and Shawntel Smith, Miss America (1995–96).\n\nIn 1934, the Fort Smith High School yearbook, \"Sounder\", changed its name to \"Bruin\". During its formative years, the senior class of 1937 hired Harry Alford of Chicago to write the Fort Smith High School Alma Mater, which has remained the same until today for now Northside High School.\n\nIn 1956, the school built an annex. The following year, enrollment for students was up to 1,738, which made Fort Smith High School the largest high school in Arkansas. During the school year of 1960-61, the Farnsworth Rose Garden was completed on the campus. Fort Smith High School was officially renamed Northside High School in 1963. Shortly thereafter, the Field House was opened and a marquee was installed in front of the campus in 1964. When Lincoln High School closed, Northside's enrollment continued to grow.\n\nImprovements were made continually for the next several years. First, Grizzly Stadium was renamed Mayo-Thompson Stadium. The campus continued to grow with the addition of the Fine Arts building, learning lab, and elevator during the 1980-81 school year. The Rogers Book Store was purchased to house computer labs and kept its original name, the Schlenker Building. In 2003-04, the original gym was renovated with a new finished floor, a film room, and new custom oak lockers. The original floor, possibly the only one of its kind, required special efforts to be able to reseal and finish it. The girls basketball team has been one of the strongest teams in the state for several years, winning four straight titles between 1999-2002.\n\n\nFort Smith High School/Northside High School principals:\n\nNorthside High School is accredited by the Arkansas Department of Education (ADE) and has been an accredited charter member of AdvancED (formerly North Central Association) since 1924. The assumed course of study follows the ADE Smart Core curriculum that requires at least 22 units to graduate. Students complete regular (core and career focus) courses and exams and may select Advanced Placement (AP) coursework and exams that provide an opportunity to receive college credit prior to high school graduation.\n\nThe enrollment for the 2003-04 school year was 1,284 with a diverse group of students, the enrollment for the 2004-05 school year was 1,350, the enrollment for the 2005-06 school year was 1,383, and the enrollment for the 2007-08 school year was 1,404. The approximate breakdown is as follows: 12 percent Asian, 21 percent African American, 18 percent Hispanic, 2 percent American Indian, and 46 percent Caucasian enrolled. Thirty-five percent of the student population is eligible for free lunch which is less than the 46 percent average for Arkansas.\n\nIn 1992-93, Northside High School was selected as a National Blue Ribbon School of Excellence by the U.S. Department of Education (ED). The Northside Quiz Bowl team has a long history of victories in state and national tournaments around the country. Most notably, the team won the American Scholastics Competition Network national championship in Chicago in 1993 and 2001. Northside students also won the 2002 and 2003 Arkansas Governor's Cup Quizbowl Association tournament championships including overall and AAAAA, the state's largest classification.\n\nThe Northside Grizzlies participate in the 7A Classification from the 7A/6A Central Conference as administered by the Arkansas Activities Association. The Grizzlies compete in football, volleyball, golf (boys/girls), cross country, bowling (boys/girls), basketball (boys/girls), wrestling, swimming (boys/girls), soccer (boys/girls), tennis (boys/girls), and track and field (boys/girls).\n\nThe Fort Smith Northside Grizzlies have won various athletic classification state championships, including:\n\n\nThe gymnasium hosted the majority of home games for the Arkansas Fantastics of the American Basketball Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279560", "title": "Veritas Storage Foundation", "text": "Veritas Storage Foundation\n\nVeritas Storage Foundation (VSF), previously known as Veritas Foundation Suite, is a computer software product made by Veritas Software that combines Veritas Volume Manager (VxVM) and Veritas File System (VxFS) to provide online-storage management. Symantec Corporation developed and maintained VSF until January 29, 2016, at which point Veritas and Symantec separated. The latest product version, 7.0, was re-branded as \"Veritas InfoScale 7.0\".\n\nVeritas Storage Foundation provides:\n\n\nVeritas Storage Foundation was also packaged in bundles such as Veritas Storage Foundation Veritas Cluster Server, for databases, for Oracle RAC, and Veritas Cluster File System.\n\n\nSupported OS platforms included AIX, Solaris, HP-UX, Red Hat Linux, SUSE Linux and Microsoft Windows.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279561", "title": "Rome General Peace Accords", "text": "Rome General Peace Accords\n\nThe Rome General Peace Accords (Português): \"Acordo Geral de Paz (General Peace Accord)\") between the Mozambican Civil War parties, the FRELIMO (government) and the RENAMO (rebels), put an end to the Mozambique Civil War. It was signed on October 4, 1992. Negotiations preceding in began in July 1990. They were brokered by a team of four mediators, two members of the Community of Sant'Egidio, Andrea Riccardi and Matteo Zuppi, as well as Bishop Jaime Gonçalves and Italian government representative Mario Raffaelli. The delegation of the Frelimo was headed by Armando Guebuza (who went on to become President of Mozambique), the delegation of the Renamo was headed by Raul Domingos. The accords were then signed by the then president of Mozambique, Frelimo leader Joaquim Chissano and by the leader of the Renamo, Afonso Dhlakama.\n\nThe Renamo delegation consisted of Raul Domingos, José de Castro, Vicente Ululu, Agostinho Murrial, João Almirante, José Augusto and Anselmo Victor.\n\nRenamo declared on 21 October 2013 that they were annulling the peace accord as a result of a government attack on their base\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279571", "title": "Alte Oper", "text": "Alte Oper\n\nThe original opera house in Frankfurt is now the Alte Oper (\"Old Opera\"), a concert hall and former opera house in Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It was inaugurated in 1880 but destroyed by bombs in 1944. It was rebuilt, slowly, in the 1970s, opening again in 1981. Many important operas were performed for the first time in Frankfurt, including Carl Orff's \"Carmina Burana\" in 1937.\n\nThe square in front of the building is known as Opernplatz (Opera Square). The Alte Oper is located in the inner city district, Innenstadt, within the banking district Bankenviertel.\n\nThe Oper Frankfurt now plays in the Opern- und Schauspielhaus Frankfurt, completed in 1951, which it shares with the Schauspiel Frankfurt theatre company.\n\nThe building was designed by the Berlin architect Richard Lucae, financed by the citizens of Frankfurt and built by Philipp Holzmann. Construction began in 1873. It opened on October 20, 1880. Among the guests was Kaiser Wilhelm I of Germany, who was impressed and said: \"Das könnte ich mir in Berlin nicht erlauben.\" (\"I couldn't permit myself this sort of thing in Berlin.\")\n\nThe citizens of Frankfurt, who had to finance the structure (initial estimate two million marks), were rather sceptical at first. Alluding to the inscription on the frieze\n\nThe folkloristic Frankfurt poet Adolf Stoltze wrote, in his best Hessian dialect:\n\nThe Alte Oper was extensively damaged by bombing raids during World War II in 1944, though many of the outside walls and façades survived. In the 1960s the city magistrate planned to build a modern office building on the site. The then Minister of Economy in Hessen Rudi Arndt, earned the nickname \"Dynamit-Rudi\" (Dynamite Rudi) when he proposed to blow up \"Germany's most beautiful ruin\" with \"a little dynamite\". Arndt later said that this was not meant seriously.\n\nA citizen's initiative campaigned for reconstruction funds after 1953 and collected 15 million DM. It ended costing c. DM160, and the building was reopened on August 28, 1981, to the sounds of Gustav Mahler's Symphony No. 8, the \"Symphony of a Thousand\". A live recording of that concert conducted by Michael Gielen is available on CD.\n\nThe Alte Oper has:\n\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2279572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279572", "title": "Titus Billings", "text": "Titus Billings\n\nTitus Billings (March 25, 1793 – February 6, 1866) was an early convert to the Latter Day Saint movement. He served in several positions in the church and was a contemporary of Joseph Smith, and Brigham Young. Billings was a counselor in the first Bishopric of the Church to Edward Partridge. He participated in the Battle of Crooked River, and was a colonel in the Nauvoo Legion. He participated in the Mormon migration as a Captain of Fifty in the second company, and was a notable settler of Manti, Utah.\n\nBillings was born in Greenfield, Massachusetts, on March 24, 1793. He was the son of Ebeneezer Billings and Ester Joyce. One notable ancestor is Sir Thomas Billing, Chief Justice of the Kings Bench in England.\n\nOn February 16, 1817, he married Diantha Morley. Diantha and her older brother Isaac Morley were members of Sidney Rigdon's congregation of Campbellites. This utopian group practiced communal principles, holding goods in common for the benefit of all of the members. They also held the belief, called Restorationism, that a purer form of Christianity should be restored using the early Christian church as a model. These beliefs would serve as a backdrop for Billings's membership in the \"Church of Christ\", as the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter Day Saints was first called, including his future participation in the United Order.\n\nWhen Sidney Rigdon joined the fledgling Church of Christ he held a two-hour sermon explaining to his congregation why he was making the commitment. The next morning, November 15, 1830, he was baptized. Upon calling for more converts, Billings stepped forward and was the second person baptized in Kirtland, Ohio.\n\nIn March 1831 Joseph Smith said he had received a revelation directing the Saints to impart of their land and money to the church. In August 1831 Billings was commanded to sell the Morley Family farm and holdings in preparation to move to Independence, Missouri. On March 10, 1832, he was ordained an elder by Thomas B Marsh. While en route to Jackson County, Missouri, he met with Joseph Smith on \"The Charleston\", a steam packet in Louisville, Kentucky. The Billings family arrived in Clay County, Missouri, in May.\n\nWhile in Missouri, Billings participated in the United Order covenant which was made with Edward Partridge, the first bishop of the Church. The United Order was short-lived, though, and anti-Mormon pressure at the time caused Billings to lose much of his property. While storing hay on a rented farm owned by then Governor Boggs, a mob burned 24 tons of the hay and later forced Billings out of Clay County.\n\nIn February 1835 Titus and Diantha were called to return to Kirtland to help finish the Kirtland temple. Titus was a stonemason, carpenter, and musician, while Diantha designed the original temple garments. In March, upon the temple’s completion, Diantha sang at the dedication services and Titus became a member of the School of the Prophets. The Billings family moved back to Missouri in 1837, and Titus was sustained as 2nd Councilor to Bishop Edward Partridge at the General Conference of the church in Far West. He served in this calling until the death of Bishop Partridge in 1840.\n\nOn October 25, 1838, Billings participated in the Battle of Crooked River, and as part of the aftermath was forced to flee from his home to the Des Moines River. While fleeing the mob he suffered from lack of food for several days and frostbite on his feet. As a result of the battle, Governor Boggs signed the infamous Extermination order. Billings signed a petition documenting the losses of property during this time which were never recovered. Escaping the mobs, he and his family moved to what became known as Morleytown or Yelrome, which is near modern-day Lima, Illinois, and is a short distance from Nauvoo, Illinois.\n\nIn February 1841 the Nauvoo Legion was organized and Billings was made a captain. By September, Billings was promoted to the rank of colonel in the legion.\n\nOn August 22, 1842, Billings was called on a mission to the New England states. Luman Andros Shurtliff was his companion. They returned in June 1843 after suffering much and having only small successes.\n\nIn September 1846, Isaac Morley's cooper shop was burned and the Billings family and all of the residents of Morleytown moved to Nauvoo. During this time Billings worked daily on the Nauvoo temple until its completion. However, due to mob pressure, their stay was short-lived, and after the death of Joseph Smith the Billings family and the saints moved out of Nauvoo.\n\nIn 1848 Billings was appointed as a Captain of Fifty in Heber C Kimball’s company of pioneers. The company arrived in Salt Lake Valley in the winter of 1848. In February 1849 Billings was called to the Greater Salt Lake City Stake High Council.\n\nAfter Ute Indian leader Walkara invited church president Brigham Young to send colonists to the Sanpitch (now Sanpete) Valley in central Utah, Young dispatched Isaac Morley and other settlers, including the Titus Billings family, to what is now the location of Manti, Utah. Manti was incorporated by the legislature in Salt Lake City, and the area was surveyed in 1851. Upon completion of the survey, the settlers left their temporary shelters at Temple Hill and moved to their city lots. Billings and Jezreel Shomaker built the first houses, and were followed by others before the next winter. The Billings home still stands . Billings lived in Manti and was a member of the Stake presidency there in 1851.\n\nInitially the native tribes of the area were friendly towards the settlers while still at war with one another. When one tribe had a victory over another, often the women and children of the opposing tribe were taken as slaves. Upon seeing the cruel treatment of the newly enslaved children, the pioneers would sometimes purchase the children from their captors to liberate them. Titus Billings purchased a young Indian girl and gave her to Diantha to raise as a daughter. Diantha named the girl Rose Billings. After a few years the pioneers were able to convince the tribes that the Great Spirit was displeased with them for their cruelty to prisoners, and the practice gradually died out.\n\nOn January 20, 1854, Titus married Mary Ann Tuttle as his second wife under the practice of polygamy. Mary Ann was the divorced ex-plural wife of Howard Egan. She bore four children with Titus before they too divorced. \n\nIn his later years, Billings moved to Provo, Utah, and died there at the age of 72. He is buried in the Provo Cemetery with his first wife Diantha.\n\nChildren from Diantha Morley Billings:\n\nChildren from Mary Ann Tuttle:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279574", "title": "Oborona", "text": "Oborona\n\nOborona () is a non-partisan civic youth movement in Russia. Its name means \"Defense [from]\" in Russian and others. The movement was established in 2005 and has no leader or centralized structure. Instead, it is based on the network principle and mostly horizontal relations.\n\nThe movement opposes what they call an authoritarian vector of Russian policy. They claim that president Vladimir Putin destroys democracy institutions and aims to establish an authoritarian police state in Russia. The movement espouses nonviolent resistance to the authorities.\n\nThe Moscow branch of Oborona has several hundred activists. The movement also has branches in 25 Russian cities.\n\nThe movement has been widely inspired by the Orange Revolution in Ukraine in 2004 and especially the Ukrainian youth organizations Pora! and Znayu! as well as by Belarus Zubr.\n\nOne of this organization leaders, Oleg Kozlovsky has been arrested, and, according to several oppositional sites illegally sent as a private conscript to the Russian Army. Eight other members of the movement who tried to arrange demonstrations in support of Kozlovsky have been arrested as well, one of them daughter of writer and radio host Victor Shenderovich. One of arrested was severely beaten and taken to a hospital.\n\nLeadership of \"Oborona\" believed that Kozlovsky has been arrested for publishing in LiveJournal photos of governmental special forces officers who recently killed activist of Other Russia Yuriy Chervochkin. However Oleg Kozlovsky himself said that he was conscripted in order to isolate him from his colleagues in Oborona for a period of presidential elections. Indeed, he was released from the Army on March 4, 2008, two days after the elections. The military officials confirmed that his draft had been illegal.\n\nDuring the 20th century, the image of a clenched fist, a symbol and gesture of resistance and unity was used by many movements, mostly of the left sense, such as: anarchists, anti-fascists, human rights activists, left-wing students, democrats, trade union movements, fighters for Indian rights, Black Panthers, green. All these people were united by the values of freedom and justice (in their understanding), the rejection of political reality and the readiness to defend their rights in practice. \n\n\"Oborona\" has a network structure in which each regional organization retains significant autonomy, and horizontal links prevail over vertical ones. The largest regional organizations are managed by coordinating councils, others by coordinators.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279582", "title": "X2: Wolverine's Revenge", "text": "X2: Wolverine's Revenge\n\nX2: Wolverine's Revenge (released as X-Men 2: Wolverine's Revenge in Europe) is an action beat'em up video game released in 2003 for the GameCube, PlayStation 2, Xbox, Windows, and Game Boy Advance to coincide with the release date of the film \"X2: X-Men United\", developed by British game developer GenePool Software and published by Activision. The Game Boy Advance version was also released on a Twin Pack cartridge bundled with \"\" in 2005. \n\nThe game was released as a promotional tie-in to \"X2\" but featured an original story by famed comic book writer Larry Hama, and does not take place in the continuity of the film series, but had a closer resemblance to the Marvel Universe instead. \n\nIn \"X2: Wolverine's Revenge\", the player helps Wolverine fight his way past the heavily guarded areas of the Weapon X Facility to piece together fragmented clues to Wolverine's murky past and to save his life. Wolverine has 48 hours to find an antidote to the deadly Shiva Virus circulating in his bloodstream and the clues point to the Weapon X facility, the Canadian fortress where he had his skeletal structure fused with adamantium.\n\nA significant feature has Mark Hamill providing the voice-over for Wolverine in game. While Hugh Jackman's likeness is on the cover and promotional material, the character model in game is based on the comic books. Patrick Stewart reprises his film role as Professor X in game. \n\nThe game received generally mixed reviews upon release, with reviewers praising the voice acting, especially of Hamill and Stewart, and unlockables, while criticising the slow combat, lack of mid-level checkpoints, and for being too hard and requiring too many retries. It was also the last console game focused on Wolverine until \"\" six years later.\n\nThe action is played from a third-person perspective as players fight a number of armored soldiers, mutant creatures, and archenemies such as Sabretooth, Magneto, Wendigo, Lady Deathstrike, and Juggernaut. While Professor X is able to assist Wolverine with powers of telepathy, the surly comic book hero must ultimately carry out his adventure alone. To that end, players must tap into Wolverine's unique talents to overcome all manner of obstacles. Wolverine will be able to hunt and track his prey using his heightened sense of smell and ability to detect body heat. As Wolverine makes his way through the military compounds, he will need to avoid defense systems and guards, and find ways into locked rooms to discover the information he needs to survive.\n\nWhen engaged in combat, Wolverine can retract and release his adamantium claws at any time to perform slashing attacks, aerial combos, and a number of different throws. The strike moves used in battle are the Combat Strike Moves, which initiate a short cut-scene where Wolverine attacks the enemy.\n\nIn addition to Combat Strikes, there are special Stealth Strikes, Situation-Specific Strikes and Boss-Specific Strikes which become available at certain points in the game. Stealth Strikes are used to take out enemies silently. For example, Wolverine can do a wall-hug to creep up on an enemy and stab him before he can sound the alarm.\n\nWolverine's unusual healing ability allows him to withstand punishment that would kill an average human being, but he can become wounded over time. Sustaining major injuries triggers a feral rage, imbuing Wolverine with greater strength and the ferocity to take on multiple foes at once.\n\nThe story begins in 1968. Logan (Mark Hamill) is walking along a backstreet, when behind him come some agents from the Weapon X program. They try to capture Logan so they can take him to the Weapon X facility. Logan tries to defend himself, but he is shot with a tranquilizer dart and knocked unconscious. Logan is taken to the Facility and subjected to the adamantium bonding process. Soon after, he escapes from the experiment chamber and tries to get outside. The Professor (Don Morrow) calls him an animal, which enrages Logan and helps him escape the Professor's control. Logan tries to get to The Professor to confront him but he is stopped by Sabretooth (Fred Tatasciore). He defeats Sabretooth and he confronts The Professor while telling Dr. Abraham Cornelius (Don Morrow) and Dr. Carol Hines (Jennifer Hale) to take their leave. When Weapon X restrains him at claw-point, The Professor reveals that all Weapon X subjects were implanted with a dormant and deadly virus known as the \"Shiva Strain\" as a failsafe. The Professor also reveals that the virus would kill a normal human in one year but has no idea how long the virus would kill a human mutant.\n\nLater in the present, Logan, who now goes by \"Wolverine\", is now a member of the X-Men and he has told Beast (Richard Portnow) what he remembers of his past. Beast tells Wolverine that the Shiva Virus has bypassed his healing factor and will kill him in two days if the cure is not found (ironically, which is on Logan's birthday). Professor X (Patrick Stewart) tells Wolverine to try to find the cure in the Weapon X Facility while Beast provides Wolverine with an implanted wristwatch telling him how much time he has left. After being flown to Edmonton by Cyclops and Jean Grey, Wolverine uses a private plane flown by a female pilot (Mayim Bialik) to get to the Weapon X Facility. However, the plane is shot down. He survives the plane crash and starts making his way towards the Weapon X facility.\n\nWolverine fights his way to a cavern where the spirit of the Wendigo lives. Wolverine fights with Wendigo and wins. Wendigo gets up and throws Logan out of the cavern where he lands on snow. Logan sees a Weapon X truck and jumps on it. Logan reaches the Weapon X Facility and sneaks in. On the way in, he is ambushed by a group of GIs. The sound of gunfire starts and Wolverine is surprised that he is not shot. He then sees another GI who shot down the ambushers. When Wolverine asks him why he let him live by asking \"Am I supposed to thank you, or are you just a lousy shot?\", the GI states, \"Lets just say it's not your time to die...yet.\" Wolverine examines him a moment and he asks \"You're not quite human, are you?\" To which the GI states, \"You should talk.\" As he walks away. After fighting through the base, he accesses a database and finds that the Weapon X scientists are at the Void (a maximum security mutant detention center that's similar to the Vault) so he makes his way there. Leaving, he is attacked by Sabretooth again. Sabretooth is defeated and grudgingly gives Wolverine the Part B of the virus cure after stating that he knew about the Shiva Virus a long time ago.\n\nLater, Logan goes to The Void where he sees Colossus (Ted Nordblum) who lets him enter the facility after he was informed by Professor X about Logan's condition. While Logan is fighting his way on the Facility, Sabretooth comes to the Void and takes out some of its security on his way to get to the Weapon X scientists. Sabretooth then releases Alpha-Class mutants Omega Red, Magneto, and Juggernaut from their prisons. Meanwhile, Logan finds Dr. Abraham Cornelius and Dr. Carol Hines. Abraham Cornelius gives Logan the formula of Part A of the cure. Due to the Void blocking Logan's contact with Professor X, he ends up having to head outside to relay the info to him. Upon leaving, he warns Abraham Cornelius and Carol Hines that Sabretooth is also looking for them. However, when Logan reaches the roof, he is faced by Juggernaut (Fred Tatasciore). When Logan defeats him, Colossus tells Wolverine that Magneto and Omega Red were the other two Alpha-Class mutants that were freed. As Colossus drags the unconscious Juggernaut back to his cell, he points to the device that will help Logan get out. Logan destroys the Void Shield and relays the info of the Part A cure to Professor X after being told that Beast has synthesized the Part B of the Shiva Virus cure. Logan then heads out to find and defeat Magneto after Professor X detects magnetic signatures.\n\nAfter Logan escapes, May Deuce (Mayim Bialik) the Mutant Hunter Boss comes to the Void to lead the Mutant Hunters into hunting down Wolverine and the other escaped mutants. While looking for Magneto, Logan is contacted by Professor X stating that the Magnetic Flux Limiter Collar on him has suppressed Magneto's magnetic powers long enough for him to become more powerful. Logan comes across a ruined highway and uses a motorcycle which he rides into a ruined town. Logan manages to find Magneto (Fred Tatasciore) in a steel mill. Logan tries to stop Magneto's moves, but he has to kill all the Mutant Hunters at the same time. Logan defeats Magneto and knocks him unconscious. Upon being told by Professor X that too much magnetic interference is preventing Rogue from homing in on him, Logan then makes his way to the city leaving Magneto for any Mutant Hunters sent from the Void.\n\nWhen Logan is heading to the city to meet up with Rogue, a helicopter comes to him. In the helicopter is May Deuce. She thanks Logan because he defeated Magneto and offers to take him to the top of the Xenon Building. But when the helicopter reaches the top of a building, May Deuce throws Wolverine on the roof. Logan sees Lady Deathstrike (Gwendoline Yeo) and he realizes that the pilot, the Army GI, and May Deuce were some of Lady Deathstrike's robots who were to direct Wolverine to her so she could kill him. She also revealed that she paid Sabretooth to cause him pain. Wolverine defeats Lady Deathstrike and reaches a helicopter land platform where she follows him. Logan throws Lady Deathstrike off the roof and Rogue comes with the virus cure. Wolverine drinks it and goes home. Sabretooth finds Lady Deathstrike. He takes a vial from her and drinks it (most likely the cure for the virus), takes her, and leaves.\n\nMeanwhile, Apocalypse (Christopher Corey Smith) and Mister Sinister (also Christopher Corey Smith) watch every move from Wolverine as they prepare their Horsemen of Apocalypse.\n\nWolverine lies on his bed and then suddenly realizes that he has not found and defeated Omega Red upon remembering the escaped mutants that Colossus told him about.\n\nIn all versions (except for the Game Boy Advance version) if the player collects all dog tags, a deleted scene is unlocked. As Wolverine visits a ruined town to find and defeat Magneto, he is stalked by a shadowy figure. As the figure gets close, Wolverine nearly kills the figure who is revealed to be Spider-Man (Rino Romano). When Wolverine states that Spider-Man is off his home turf, Spider-Man sarcastically explains that he heard about the big breakout down at the Void and rode a charter bus with other superheroes who could not fly or teleport. When Spider-Man asks if Wolverine needs help battling Magneto, Wolverine tells him to deal with the chaos until Damage Control arrives as he goes to battle Magneto.\n\n\"X2: Wolverine's Revenge\" was met with average to mixed reviews upon release. GameRankings gave it a score of 67.25% for the GameCube version; 61.79% for the PlayStation 2 version; 76.67% for the GBA version; 60.83% for the PC version; and 65.07% for the Xbox version. Likewise, Metacritic gave it a score of 62 out of 100 for the GameCube version; 58 out of 100 each for the PS2 and Xbox versions; 72 out of 100 for the GBA version; and 55 out of 100 for the PC version.\n\nCommon criticisms include clunky and alienating stealth mechanics, bland visuals, and high and unforgiving difficulty, making the game unfairly hard. \"Official UK PlayStation 2 Magazine\" gave the game 7 out of 10, describing it as follows: \"a quality action adventure that blends stealth with hand-to-hand combat. Only a few irritations deny this a higher score.\" Of the said irritations, the most prominently criticized element was the lack of mid-mission checkpoints, forcing players to replay large sections upon death. \"Maxim\" gave the game a score of eight out of ten and said, \"While most of \"Revenge\"’s game play involves turning bad guys into kebab, the game’s strict homage to the comic gives it more depth.\" \"The Village Voice\" gave the Xbox version a score of seven out of ten and said, \"Deploying your special powers is motivation enough to move through the game's booby-trapped military complexes, crash sites, mines, caves, and places that look like mines or caves.\" \"The Cincinnati Enquirer\" also gave it three-and-a-half stars out of five and stated that \"Controlling Wolverine during combat can prove difficult, especially when there are multiple enemies onscreen simultaneously.\" However, \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave it a C− and stated that \"The pacing is sluggish, the gameplay irritating, and ultimately it feels like Wolverine is exacting revenge on the wrong person: the player.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2279583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279583", "title": "Fahrenheit (Toto album)", "text": "Fahrenheit (Toto album)\n\nFahrenheit is the sixth studio album by Toto, released in 1986. It was their first album to feature Joseph Williams on lead vocals. Former lead singer Fergie Frederiksen was fired due to problems with his ability in the studio. However, he sings backing vocals on the song \"Could This Be Love\". It was also the last Toto album until \"Toto XIV\" in 2015 to feature keyboardist Steve Porcaro as a permanent member, as he left after the Fahrenheit tour. The album failed to go gold until 1994, but featured two top forty singles in \"I'll Be Over You\" (#11, #13 Can.) and \"Without Your Love\" (#38, #77 Can.). \"I'll Be Over You\" featured Michael McDonald on backing vocals, who also made an appearance in the song's music video. Singer/dancer Paula Abdul appears in the video for the third single, \"Till The End.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279584", "title": "Jamestown Verrazzano Bridge", "text": "Jamestown Verrazzano Bridge\n\nThe Jamestown Verrazzano Bridge spans the West Passage of Narragansett Bay in Rhode Island, United States. It is part of Rhode Island Route 138 and is on the route to Newport, Rhode Island for traffic heading northbound from Interstate 95.\n\nThe bridge is named for Italian explorer Giovanni da Verrazzano. Construction began in 1985 and was completed in 1992, originally consisting of two undivided lanes and built alongside the Jamestown Bridge which had served the same route since 1940. The older bridge was demolished in April 2006.\n\nIt is a post-tensioned, double-cell concrete box girder bridge with four travel lanes separated by a concrete Jersey barrier. It links North Kingstown, Rhode Island with the island town of Jamestown, Rhode Island, with a total length of . It has a walkway on the north side, but it is not accessible to the public .\n\nThe bridge was listed as structurally deficient in 2007, despite being only 15 years old at the time, due to small cracks found in some of the box girder segments. The cracks were repaired in 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279585", "title": "Memories Are Made of This", "text": "Memories Are Made of This\n\n\"Memories Are Made of This\" is a popular song about nostalgia written by Terry Gilkyson, Richard Dehr, and Frank Miller in 1955.\n\nThe song was first issued by Mindy Carson with Ray Conniff's Orchestra and The Columbians. Carson's version reached No. 53 on \"Billboard\"s Top 100 chart.\n\nThe most popular version of the song was recorded by Dean Martin in 1955. He was backed by The Easy Riders (who consisted of Gilkyson, Dehr, and Miller), who wrote it. On the B-side of the 45 and 78 recordings was \"Change of Heart\" written by John Rox.\n\nMartin's version reached No. 1 on \"Billboard\"s Top 100 chart, remaining at the top for five weeks in 1956, while spending six weeks atop \"Billboard\"s chart of songs \"Most Played by Jockeys\", five weeks atop \"Billboard\"s chart of \"Best Sellers in Stores\", and four weeks atop \"Billboard\"s chart of songs \"Most Played in Juke Boxes\". It became a Gold record and Martin's biggest hit. It was also his only UK number one hit, topping the UK Singles Chart on 23 February 1956, and remaining at the top for four weeks. The song also reached No. 2 in the Netherlands and No. 20 in Flanders.\n\nGale Storm released a version of the song in late 1955, which reached No. 5 on \"Billboard\"s chart of songs \"Most Played by Jockeys\", while reaching No. 16 on \"The Top 100\".\n\nAfter the 1956 Hungarian Revolution, the song was adapted into the \"Honvágy-dal\" ('The Song of Homesickness') and used as an unofficial anthem for refugees scattered around the world. Recorded by Ida Boros, it became a cultural phenomenon and a sign of protest against the communist government.\n\nThe song charted once more in 1966 by the Drifters, a No. 48, hit for them. It was recorded by Anne Murray for her \"Croonin'\" album in 1993, but it was only released as a bonus track on the special \"Croonin\"' album put out by Heartland Records.\n\nIn Germany, titled \"Heimweh\" (\"Homesickness\") and performed by Freddy Quinn and with lyrics by Ernst Bader and Dieter Rasch, the song was 14 weeks at number one, the most successful song of 1956. Worldwide it sold more than eight million, thus exceeding sales of the Dean Martin version.\n\n\n German versions: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279590", "title": "African Democratic Party of Guinea", "text": "African Democratic Party of Guinea\n\nThe African Democratic Party of Guinea (), initially called Democratic Party of Guinea-Ahmed Sékou Touré (\"Parti démocratique de Guinée-Ahmed Sékou Touré\") is a political party in Guinea. PDG-AST was founded in January 1994, following a split in the Democratic Party of Guinea-African Democratic Rally (PDG-RDA). The party was led by Marcel Cross, father-in-law of Toure's son Mohammed.\n\nIn the lead-up to the split in PDG-RDA the PDG-AST founders largely centered their criticism against the party leader Ismael Gushein, whom they accused of 'political scheming'. In the bitterness around the party split, PDG-RDA branded PDG-AST as 'traitors'. PDG-AST upheld the legacy of the 12th PDG party congress, which had opened up for political and economic reforms. Whilst PDG-RDA became supportive of the government of Lansana Conte, PDG-AST joined the opposition camp. PDG-AST had a following among Malinke officers purged after the end of Sekou Toure's rule.\n\nIn May 1994 PDG-AST formed a pact with the National Democratic Union of Guinea. In the 1995 Guinean legislative election, the party obtained 1.15% of the proportional representation vote and won one seat.\n\nFollowing the election, PDG-AST joined the Democratic Opposition Coordination (CODEM), a movement of 12 opposition parties protesting against the legitimacy of the official election result. Subsequently, the Supreme Court, based on a request from PDG-RDA, withdrew the registration of PDG-AST as a political party. The party subsequently took the name PDAG.\n\nAhead of the 1998 Guinean presidential election PDAG had entered a pact to support the candidature of RPG leader Alpha Condé. The day before the election security forces raided Cross' residence, arrested him and claimed that he was amassing arms for a coup d'état. He was released two months later.\n"}
{"id": "2279596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279596", "title": "The Love Movement", "text": "The Love Movement\n\nThe Love Movement is the fifth studio album by American hip hop group A Tribe Called Quest, released on September 29, 1998, by Jive Records. A concept album, \"The Love Movement\" explores the lyrical theme of love. Musically, it is a continuation of the group's previous album, \"Beats, Rhymes and Life\", featuring minimalist R&B and jazz-oriented production by The Ummah. The lead single, \"Find a Way\", charted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and was followed by a second single, \"Like It Like That\". The album debuted at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on November 1, 1998. The group announced its disbandment a month before the album's release.\n\nThe roots of \"The Love Movement\" trace back to 1997, when Q-Tip produced a beat intended for The Notorious B.I.G.'s album \"Life After Death\". The Notorious B.I.G. enjoyed the beat when it was played for him, however, \"Life After Death\" had already been completed and the beat was not used before his death later that year. Eventually, the beat was used for the song \"The Love\" on \"The Love Movement\".\n\nThe album was originally slated for release in May 1998. However, on February 7, 1998, a fire at Q-Tip's home recording studio destroyed his entire record collection and a computer containing many unreleased songs by the group, including collaborations with producer Jay Dee, delaying the album until September of that year. A month before the album's release, the group announced that it was disbanding.\n\n\"The Love Movement\" is a continuation of the stripped-down R&B and jazz-infused sound that The Ummah created on \"Beats, Rhymes and Life\". The album contains an instrumental track, \"4 Moms\", which features a guitar solo by jazz guitarist Chalmers \"Spanky\" Alford. Lyrically, love is the album's predominant theme, while Q-Tip and Phife Dawg were noted for their \"mature\", \"subtle\" and \"laid-back\" rhymes. The featured rappers were given praise for making the album sound \"livelier\", as it was criticized for being \"a little monotonous\" overall. Thomas Golianopoulos of \"Spin\" hailed the single \"Find a Way\" as the group's \"final glorious moment\" before breaking up. \n\n\"The Love Movement\" debuted at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), on November 1, 1998, with shipments of 500,000 copies in the United States.\n\nThe album received mostly positive reviews from music critics. Josef Woodard of \"Entertainment Weekly\" described it as \"a slamming, seductively textured, and tough display of virtuosic rhyming and tale spinning.\" Dele Fadele of \"NME\" praised it for demonstrating \"the continued survival of hip-hop as an artform\", calling the album's songs \"drug-free psychedelic experiences in which subsonic bass and weird-sounding beats play a large part.\" \"Rolling Stone\"s Rob Sheffield believed that the \"mature, accomplished niceness\" of the album \"proves that the Tribe still have the skills — they're just short on thrills.\" In a negative review, Tim Haslett of \"Spin\" wrote that the spontaneity that made \"The Low End Theory\" \"so much \"fun\"\" had been \"replaced by a shiny patina and a flabby George Benson-esque seriousness, so that the record feels like it was conceived and executed around a major-label conference table.\"\n\nIn a retrospective piece, AllMusic critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine noted that \"there are plenty of pleasures to be had from careful listening\" of the album, and despite its love concept, he felt that \"the overall effect is quite similar\" to \"Beats, Rhymes and Life\". Nathan Rabin of \"The A.V. Club\" stated, \"While not as immediately accessible as Tribe's first three albums, it's still consistently solid enough to stand up to repeat listens.\"\n\n\"The Love Movement\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Rap Album, presented at the 41st Grammy Awards in 1999.\n\n\nNotes\n\nStart It Up\nFind a Way\nSteppin' It Up\nGive Me\nPad & Pen\n\nBusta's Lament\nHot 4 U\nAgainst the World\nThe Love\nRock Rock Y'all\nCredits are adapted from AllMusic.\n"}
{"id": "2279599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279599", "title": "Almadraba", "text": "Almadraba\n\nAlmadraba in Spanish ( and ) is a word of Al-Andalus Arabic origin \"almaḍraba\" : 'a place to strike' < Arabic root 'to strike, hit'. It is an elaborate and age-old Phoenician technique for trapping and catching Atlantic bluefin tuna that was learned and taken to areas such as Iberia during Iberia's Islamic period.\n\nThe technique is to trap and catch the tuna when they are crossing between the Atlantic Ocean to the Mediterranean during February to July, on their way to spawn and\nuntil recently, on its return journey, (\"al revés\") when they come back into the Atlantic Ocean,; the bycatch contains, among others, bullet tuna (Auxis rochei), little tunny (Euthynnus\nalletteratus), Atlantic bonito (Sarda sarda), bigeye tuna (Thunnus obesus) and swordfish (Xiphias gladius).\n\nIt is a traditional form of tuna fishing or netting fence to catch tuna that is carried out in Italy (Mainly in Sicily and Sardinia), Morocco, Portugal (Mainly in the Algarve) and Spain (Mainly Andalusia, Murcia and Valencia).\n\nA similar technique exists in Sicily known as \"mattanza\" (a borrowing from the Spanish word \"matanza\", meaning slaughter), introduced either by the Moors during Sicily's own Islamic period or by the Spanish afterwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279600", "title": "Kitchener City Hall", "text": "Kitchener City Hall\n\nKitchener City Hall is the seat of municipal government of Kitchener, Ontario, Canada. It has gone through many iterations through the 20th century, culminating in the current building, which opened in 1993.\n\nThe original location of the municipal seat was on the block bound by King, Frederick, Duke and Scott streets and home today to Market Square Shopping Centre; the first city hall was built in 1919 by William Henry Eugene Schmalz (son of Mayor W.H. Schmalz) faced King, with the area towards Duke hosting the weekly Kitchener Farmer's Market (operating from 1869 to 1872 which relocated to building in rear), rebuilt 1907 and lasted until 1973. The last of the city halls on the site was built in 1924 replacing the Victorian structure topped with a clockless cupola (and with a Weather vane) with a three-story Renaissance Revival (similar to St. Lawrence Hall in Toronto) porticoed building topped with a clock tower. It was demolished in 1973 in a decision controversial to this day. The stones and workings of the clock tower were labelled and stored. While City Hall moved, the Farmer's Market was relocated within the same small location (in Market Square Mall) from 1973 to 2004.\n\nThe city moved its offices across Frederick Street to the upper floors of the Oxlea office tower in 1973. Municipal affairs continued in leased space at this unremarkable location for the next twenty years; the former site was converted to the Market Square shopping centre, which housed the Farmers' Market below its parking garage.\nThe clock tower of the 1924 city hall was finally reassembled 22 years after being dismantled, and placed on a new base in Victoria Park in view of the new city hall, in 1995.\n\nIn the 1990s, during the mayoral term of Dom Cardillo, the city decided that it should operate from a dedicated, modern building again. It purchased the complete block enclosed by King, College, Duke, and Young streets, and held an architectural competition to design the building. The winner was Toronto architects Kuwabara Payne McKenna Blumberg Architects (Mertins & Wright, 1990) who laid out an open square facing King Street complete with a fountain/skating rink; it is enclosed on two sides by three-storey wings, with the main building at the back of the square. The west side of the edifice houses the council chamber; a central, open rotunda defines an indoor public space, and the east elevation consists of a twelve-storey office tower.\n\nThe parts of the building are named for former names of Kitchener; the wings surrounding the square are named for Sandhills and Ebytown, while the Berlin Tower carries the most recent of the former names. The square at front was simply named Civic Square for its first 21 years; it was renamed Carl Zehr Square in late 2014, in honour of the mayor who retired that year. Gardens and other open space face Duke Street at the rear. The new City Hall opened with generally enthusiastic support in 1993.\n\nThe textures of the building are varied. Much of both the interior and exterior is in red sandstone imported from India; domestic granite makes up pavement and floors. A unique feature is the 'green wall'; passing from the south on a parallel with Gaukel Street, this bulwark of green stone continues, at various heights, through the square and building across the entire block. The council chamber is a modern, approachable space, where the mayor and councillors sit at a circular furnishing, surrounded by staff facilities and observed by the visitors' gallery. The building's rotunda hosts many events, from art exhibits to public gatherings.\n\nThe city hall makes appearances in the sitcom \"Dan for Mayor\" as the Wessex City Hall. It is well-known for being featured in the film RoboCop 2.\n\nA cenotaph was built at Frederick Street near King Street in 1929, relocated near City Hall in 1949 and relocated to current site at Duke and Frederick Streets in 1973.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279601", "title": "Gaslight (1944 film)", "text": "Gaslight (1944 film)\n\nGaslight is a 1944 American psychological thriller film, adapted from Patrick Hamilton's play \"Gas Light\" (1938), about a woman whose husband slowly manipulates her into believing that she is going insane. The film was nominated for seven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actor, and Best Screenplay; winning two for Best Actress and Best Production Design.\n\nThe 1944 version was a remake following the 1940 British film \"Gaslight\", directed by Thorold Dickinson. This 1944 version was directed by George Cukor and starred Ingrid Bergman, Charles Boyer, Joseph Cotten, and 18-year-old Angela Lansbury in an Oscar-nominated screen debut (Supporting Actress). It had a larger scale and budget than the earlier film, and lends a different feel to the material. To avoid confusion with the first film, this version was originally titled The Murder in Thornton Square in the UK. This film features numerous deviations from the original stage play, though the central drama remains, of a husband trying to drive his wife insane in order to distract her from his criminal activities.\n\nIn 2019, the film was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nWorld-famous opera singer Alice Alquist has just been murdered at her home, No.9 Thornton Square. The perpetrator left without the jewels, for which he had killed her, after being interrupted by Paula, Alice's fourteen-year-old niece. Paula had been raised by her aunt Alice following her mother's death. After Alice was murdered, Paula was sent to Italy to train to become an opera star herself.\n\nYears later, an adult Paula (Ingrid Bergman) meets and marries Gregory Anton (Charles Boyer) after a two-week-long whirlwind romance. At his insistence, Paula returns to London, where she has no friends, to live in the long-vacant London townhouse of her deceased aunt Alice. To help calm her anxieties, Gregory suggests that they store all of Alice's furnishings in the attic. Before they do, Paula discovers, in an old book, a letter addressed to her aunt by a man named Sergis Bauer. Gregory's reaction is violent. However, he dismisses his outburst as one of frustration at the bad memories his bride is experiencing.\n\nAfter Alice's belongings are locked away in the attic, events take a turn for the bizarre. At the Tower of London, Paula loses an heirloom brooch that Gregory had given her, despite its having been stored safely in her handbag. A picture disappears from the walls of the house; and Gregory says that Paula took it, one of many instances of her removing and hiding things. But Paula has no recollection of having done so. Paula also hears footsteps coming from the sealed attic, and sees the gaslights dim and brighten for no apparent reason. Gregory suggests that these things exist only in her imagination.\nGregory isolates his wife from the outside world, implying that he is doing so for her own good, because her nerves have been acting up, causing her to become a kleptomaniac. He is also jealous and accusatory whenever others express an interest in her. When Gregory does take her out to a friend's house, he shows Paula his watch-chain, from which his watch has mysteriously disappeared. When Gregory conveniently finds it in her handbag, Paula becomes hysterical in front of all the guests, and Gregory takes her home. Paula begins to believe she should not go out in public. A young maid, Nancy (Angela Lansbury), worsens the situation, as Paula becomes convinced that Nancy loathes her. Gregory secretly flirts with the maid and tells Paula that she is paranoid and is imagining the maid's disdain.\n\nPaula does not know that her husband is really Sergis Bauer, her aunt's murderer. He sought out Paula in Italy with the aim of getting back into the house for Alice's jewels. He has been secretly rummaging through Alice's belongings in the attic to find the jewels which he is certain are still there. The footsteps Paula heard in the attic were actually his. The flickering gaslights which he claims she has imagined were caused by his turning on the attic lights, thus reducing the gas to the downstairs lights. The kleptomania exhibited by Paula is all sleight-of-hand by Gregory.\n\nGregory does everything in his power to convince his wife that she is going mad, hoping to have her institutionalized, giving him power of attorney over her, and allowing him to search unabated for the jewels. The plan almost works. Paula is saved by her trip to the Tower of London, as it also leads to a chance encounter with Inspector Brian Cameron of Scotland Yard (Joseph Cotten), an admirer of Alice Alquist since childhood. Seeing Paula rekindles Cameron's interest in the cold case murder of Alice and her royal jewels that were never found. With the aid of the police, Cameron figures out that Gregory slips into a vacant house next door and enters his own attic via a skylight. Cameron eventually gets inside the house to see Paula and confirms that the gaslights are indeed flickering, and she discovers the letter from Bauer that Gregory had told her was a figment of her imagination.\n\nThat same evening, Gregory at last discovers the jewels hidden in plain sight, disguised as costume jewelry. He returns to the house to discover that Paula has apparently been visited by another man. Though he knows that he has been discovered, he convinces the still-confused Paula that everything is in her imagination. However, Cameron appears in the doorway behind and arrests him with the help of police. Paula, finally convinced of her own sanity, indulges herself in a bit of revenge. She taunts Gregory, who is now bound to a chair but still trying to manipulate her, suggesting that she might cut him free so that he can escape justice. She muses that the knife in her hand might not be real, before calling in Cameron to take him away.\n\nEncouraged by the success of the play and the British 1940 film, MGM bought the remake rights, but with a clause insisting that all existing prints of the first film be destroyed, even to the point of trying to destroy the negative. Evidently that order was not honored to the letter, since the 1940 \"Gaslight\" remains available for both theatrical exhibition and television screenings, as well as DVD release.\n\nThe psychological term \"gaslighting\", which describes the form of psychological abuse in which the victim is gradually manipulated into doubting his or her own sanity, originated from the play and its two film adaptations. The fictional work is also the first artistic portrayal of this type of psychological abuse.\n\nAccording to MGM records the film earned $2,263,000 in the US and Canada and $2,350,000 in other markets resulting in a profit of $941,000.\n\nWhen \"Gaslight\" was released, \"The New York Times\" film critic Bosley Crowther praised the actors. He wrote, \"And with Mr. Boyer doing the driving in his best dead-pan hypnotic style, while the flames flicker strangely in the gas-jets and the mood music bongs with heavy threats, it is no wonder that Miss Bergman goes to pieces in a most distressing way. Both of these popular performers play their roles right to the hilt. Nice little personality vignettes are interestingly contributed, too, by Joseph Cotten as a stubborn detective, Dame May Whitty and Angela Lansbury as a maid.\"\n\nIngrid Bergman's role is often considered by film critics to be amongst the greatest Best Actress Oscar winning performances ever as well as her personal best. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 87% based on reviews from 30 critics.\n\nIn 2006, film critic Emanuel Levy discussed the film noir aspects of the film:\n\nA thriller soaked in paranoia, \"Gaslight\" is a period films noir that, like Hitchcock's \"\" and \"Hangover Square\", is set in the Edwardian age. It's interesting to speculate about the prominence of a film cycle in the 1940s that can be described as 'Don't Trust Your Husband'. It began with three Hitchcock films: \"Rebecca\" (1940), \"Suspicion\" (1941), and \"Shadow of a Doubt\" (1943), and continued with \"Gaslight\" and \"Jane Eyre\" (both in 1944), \"Dragonwyck\" (1945), \"Notorious\" and \"The Spiral Staircase\" (both 1946), \"The Two Mrs. Carrolls\" (1947), and \"Sorry, Wrong Number\" and \"Sleep, My Love\" (both 1948). All of these films use the noir visual vocabulary and share the same premise and narrative structure: The life of a rich, sheltered woman is threatened by an older, deranged man, often her husband. In all of them, the house, usually a symbol of sheltered security in Hollywood movies, becomes a trap of terror.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279606", "title": "Northside High School", "text": "Northside High School\n\nNorthside High School or North Side High School or Northside Christian School or similar can refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279607", "title": "Sylvia Engdahl", "text": "Sylvia Engdahl\n\nSylvia Louise Engdahl (born November 24, 1933) is an American writer, known best for science fiction. Her debut novel \"Enchantress from the Stars\", published by Atheneum Books in 1970, was a runner-up for annual Newbery Medal and she won the Phoenix Award for that work twenty years later.\n\nEngdahl was born in Los Angeles, California. The Internet Speculative Fiction Database lists 11 books by Engdahl that were published from 1970 to 1981, including two anthologies she edited and three nonfiction books. Six science fiction novels, which include her first five books, were all published by Atheneum Books. From 1985 to 1995 she taught graduate courses for Connected Education, a pioneer in online education. She lives in Oregon with her two cats.\n\nIn August 2007, Engdahl published a new adult science fiction/visionary fiction novel, \"Stewards of the Flame\", which she followed with two sequels: \"Promise of the Flame\" (September 2009) and \"Defender of the Flame\" (April 2013).\n\nAmong 73 Library of Congress Online Catalog records of books created by Engdahl through 2014 (which may include multiple editions of some), all but the first 16 are nonfiction works as \"book editor\" beginning 2006.\n\nEngdahl wrote six science fiction novels published from 1970 to 1981 by Atheneum, all of which have been republished in the 21st century. Her new novels, two duologies published in 2007 and 2009 and in 2013 and 2014, respectively, are adult science fiction, not YA.\n\n\nEngdahl has won two annual book awards, the 1973 Christopher Award for \"This Star Shall Abide\" and the 1990 Phoenix Award for \"Enchantress from the Stars\". The latter, from the Children's Literature Association, designated the best English-language children's book that did not win a major award when it was originally published twenty years earlier. It is named for the mythical bird phoenix, which is reborn from its ashes, to suggest the book's rise from obscurity. \"Enchantress\" had been a runner up for the 1971 Newbery Medal, however. \"Stewards of the Flame\" won a bronze medal in the 2008 Independent Publisher (IPPY) Book Awards.\n\n\"Enchantress from the Stars\" has also been runner-up for a few awards and has been named to several book lists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279610", "title": "Gaslight (1940 film)", "text": "Gaslight (1940 film)\n\nGaslight (released in the United States as Angel Street) is a 1940 British psychological thriller film directed by Thorold Dickinson which stars Anton Walbrook and Diana Wynyard, and features Frank Pettingell. The film adheres more closely to the original play upon which it is based – Patrick Hamilton's \"Gas Light\" (1938) – than the 1944 MGM adaptation. The play had been performed on Broadway as \"Angel Street\", so when the MGM remake was released in the United States, it was given the same title as the American production.\n\nSet in Pimlico, London, Alice Barlow (Marie Wright) is murdered by an unknown man, who then ransacks her house, looking for her valuable rubies. The house remains empty for many years, until newlyweds Paul and Bella Mallen move in. Bella (Diana Wynyard) soon finds herself misplacing small objects; and, before long, Paul (Anton Walbrook) has her believing she is losing her sanity. B. G. Rough (Frank Pettingell), a former detective involved in the original murder investigation, immediately suspects him of Alice Barlow's murder.\n\nPaul lights the gas lamps to search the closed-off upper floors, which causes the rest of the lamps in the house to dim slightly. When Bella comments on the lights' dimming, he tells her that she is imagining things. Bella is persuaded that she is hearing noises, unaware that Paul enters the upper floors from the house next door. The sinister interpretation of the change in light levels is part of a larger pattern of deception to which Bella is subjected. It is revealed that Paul is a bigamist. He is the wanted Louis Bauer, who has returned to the house to search for the rubies he was unable to find after the murder.\n\nEncouraged by the success of the play and film, MGM bought the remake rights, but with a clause insisting that all existing prints of Dickinson's version be destroyed, even to the point of trying to destroy the negative, so that it would not compete with their more highly publicised 1944 remake starring Charles Boyer, Ingrid Bergman, and Joseph Cotten. \"Fortunately they failed, and now the British film has been restored by the BFI and issued in the UK on Blu-ray in a pristine print.\"\n\nRotten Tomatoes tallied a 100% score, based on 6 professional reviews.\n\nLeonard Maltin gave the film 3 1/2 stars (out of 4): \"Electrifying atmosphere, delicious performances, and a succinctly conveyed sense of madness and evil lurking beneath the surface of the ordinary.\"\n\nThe \"Time Out\" critic wrote, \"Nothing like as lavish as the later MGM version ... But in its own small-scale way a superior film by far. Lurking menace hangs in the air like a fog, the atmosphere is electric, and Wynyard suffers exquisitely as she struggles to keep dementia at bay.\"\n\nThe psychological term \"gaslighting\", which describes a form of psychological abuse in which the victim is gradually manipulated into doubting his or her own reality, originated from the play and its two film adaptations. \"Gaslighting\" means emotionally manipulating others by undermining their confidence and calling their credibility into question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279612", "title": "Beautiful Life (Guy Sebastian album)", "text": "Beautiful Life (Guy Sebastian album)\n\nBeautiful Life is the second album by Guy Sebastian. It was released 18 October 2004 on Sony BMG Australia and peaked at No. 2 on the ARIA Albums Chart. It was followed by the Beautiful Life concert tour of Australia. During the 8-month course of creating the album, Sebastian travelled to the United States and Europe to work with various songwriters, including Brian McKnight, with whom he penned the song \"Wait\", and Robin Thicke, whom he co-wrote a number-one charting first single, \"Out with My Baby\", and \"Fiend for You\". \"How\", an original by Thicke, is also included. The album reached Platinum status in Australia and eventually shipped over 100,000 copies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279619", "title": "Criss Angel", "text": "Criss Angel\n\nChristopher Nicholas Sarantakos (; born December 19, 1967), known by the stage name Criss Angel, is an American magician, illusionist and musician. Angel began his career in New York City, before moving his base of operations to the Las Vegas Valley. He is known for starring in the television and stage show \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\" and his previous live performance illusion show \"Criss Angel Believe\" in collaboration with \"Cirque du Soleil\" at the Luxor casino in Las Vegas. The show generated $150 million in tourist revenue to Las Vegas in 2010, but has since been replaced by \"Mindfreak LIVE!\" on 11 May 2016 (the show is partly produced by Cirque du Soleil; however, the directive rights are entirely with Criss Angel). He also starred in the television series \"Criss Angel BeLIEve\" on Spike TV, the reality-competition television show \"Phenomenon\" on NBC, and the 2014 stage show \"Criss Angel Magicjam\".\n\nAngel has been on prime time television for more hours than any other magician in history, between his television series and various specials on cable and network television. He also holds multiple world records made during his magic performances, and was named Magician of the Decade in 2009 and Magician of the Century in 2010 by the International Magicians Society. In addition to his career as an illusionist, Angel was the lead singer for his industrial band Angeldust, which released five albums between 1998 and 2003. He also authored the book \"Mindfreak: Secret Revelations\".\n\nCriss Angel was born on December 19, 1967, at Hempstead General Hospital in Hempstead, on Long Island, New York. He is of Greek descent. Angel was raised in Elmont until fourth grade, when his family moved to East Meadow, New York. His father, John Sarantakos, owned a restaurant and doughnut shop. He developed an interest in magic at age 7 and performed his first show at age 12, for which he was paid $10. His main early influence was Harry Houdini. By age 14, Angel was performing throughout high school at restaurants in East Meadow, including the Wine Gallery. Angel's first major illusion was making his mother float in their family den. Early in his career he was helped by animal breeder and reality-television host Marc Morrone, who helped Angel find and train a set of doves for his act.\n\nBy the time he graduated from East Meadow High School, he had decided to pursue a career as a professional magician instead of attending college as his parents wanted. According to the \"Biography Channel\", \"Angel hit the road and began touring with other traveling performance acts. Between traveling and performing, he attempted to further his education in his own by studying the history of magic in public libraries. He also studied the art of mysticism, music, martial arts and even dance.\"\n\nAngel has said that, \"I stayed away from magicians when I was younger because I didn't want to think like them and wanted to create my own style.\" His first television appearance was in 1994, where he performed as a part of a one-hour ABC primetime special entitled \"Secrets\". One of the early supporters of Angel was horror director Clive Barker. In 1995, Barker asked Angel to work with him on his film \"Lord of Illusions\". He also later recorded the intro to Angel's album \"World of Illusion: System One\". Barker said of Angel in the mid-1990s that, \"Criss Angel is extraordinary, a spectacular mix of visionary magic. This is the future, and it can't come quickly enough.\" During that year, he collaborated with musician Klayton to form Angeldust, a show that combined magic with music. They released their first album \"Musical Conjurings from the World of Illusions\" in 1998. Also that year, Angel performed a 10-minute show over the course of the \"World of Illusion\" conference in Madison Square Garden, performing 60 shows per day.However, by 2000, Klayton's name was removed from Angel's website.\n\nAngel also starred in the 1997 television movie \"The Science of Magic\" and its 2003 sequel \"The Science of Magic II\". \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\", which would later become Angel's first television series, was originally an off-Broadway show by Angel, which in 2001 was picked up by the World Underground Theatre. When not performing the show, Angel worked the streets promoting the show to pedestrians. \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\" ran for more than 600 performances between 2001 and 2003 at the World Underground Theater in Times Square. His 24 hours in a tank of water set a world record for the longest amount of time for a human to be completely submerged under water. This performance would also become a part of his first television special.\n\nAngel has also been known to actively discourage a belief in mediumship, stating that there is no way for mediums to speak with people beyond the dead. He has said, \"If somebody's doing that for entertainment purposes, that's one thing. But if they claim to be communicating with the dead, I don't care if they're from my hometown, I don't care if they're my family members: I'll expose them and tell them what they really are.\"\n\nIn August 2002, Angel spent 24 hours shackled underwater in a phone booth-sized water torture cell near the WWE entertainment store in New York's Times Square, WWE corporation being the owners of the World Underground Theatre where Angel had been performing his stage show. To prepare for the trick, he practiced in a neighbor's backyard swimming pool next to his mother's house in East Meadow, New York. Prior to the performance he had only managed to spend 12 consecutive hours in the water. He fasted for 24 hours before the performance to make it through the period without need to exit and use the bathroom. During the trick, he went through 16 oxygen tanks. After the trick, he was required to remove his own shackles and chains before exiting the water. Within an hour, his skin began to react substantially to the water.\n\nAt the end of the performance, according to Ted Shaffrey, \"Before he emerged from the phone-booth sized contraption of clear plastic and steel, Angel yanked out the air hose that allowed him to breathe. Then assistants pulled a black curtain over the 220-gallon (832-liter) chamber to block the view of television cameras and about 100 people gathered outside the window in which he was displayed. Under cover, Angel apparently escaped from the shackles that bound his arms, legs and neck, before pulling himself from the watery chamber with a celebratory scream.\" Upon successfully completing the trick, he was described as having \"skin crinkled and his eyes bloodshot\", and upon emerging from the tank he was taken to St. Clare's Hospital and treated for severe dehydration. He reported afterwards that he had suffered from overheating, jaw fatigue, and semi-consciousness while in the tank.\n\nOn October 20, 2002, Angel performed in the ABC Family television special named \"Criss Angel Mindfreak: Postmodern illusionist\", an hour-long performance and tribute to Harry Houdini. The special aired again on December 24, 2002 on Channel 4 in the U.K. The \"Birmingham Evening Mail\" reviewed the show, writing, \"Criss Angel is currently making a name for himself as a more provocative, darker alternative to [other illusionists]. He walks the streets of New York, hypnotising passers-by, turning cups of take-away coffee into cockroaches and suspending himself from the ceiling by inserting hooks into his back. The piece de resistance of all these mind games is an update of the Houdini underwater trick - an attempt to stay in a (cell) tank of water for 24 hours, padlocked and restrained. All seems to be going well, until the filter system breaks down and the water begins to heat up.\"\n\nOn October 31, 2003, the SciFi Channel aired the one-hour special \"Supernatural\" starring Angel. Kate O'Hare said of the special that, \"Filmed in part at Universal Theme Park in Orlando, Fla., \"Supernatural\" finds Angel crawling up buildings, passing a quarter through his skin, spontaneously combusting and having otherworldly creatures burst from his chest.\" When asked about his process in creating television specials, Angel said that, \"I like to have my hand in everything on my TV specials. I'm the executive producer; I direct it; I create it. I write all the music for my TV specials and my live performances. It's on my label. I write it; I produce it.\" During the special Angel performed stunts, including lighting himself on fire and making a tarantula emerge from a pedestrian's soda can. In 2003, Angel was also featured in the two-hour TBS special \"Made in Japan\".\n\nIn early 2003, Angel performed at the release of the new branding for Miller Lite beer in Milwaukee, Wisconsin on the 80th anniversary of Houdini's last performance in that city. For the performance, he was suspended ten stories in the air and bound in a straitjacket, from which he escaped. He also performed an illusion at Ozzfest in 2005. During this period Angel also earned money selling signed merchandise, making up to $50,000 a day.\n\nIn 2005, Criss Angel became the creator, director, and executive producer of the A&E Network show \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\", and had entered production in January. Seasons 1 and 2 were filmed at The Aladdin in Las Vegas, with Season 3 at the Luxor Las Vegas. Premiering on July 20, 2005, the show's illusions included walking on water, levitating, walking up the side of Luxor Hotel (in the light of 39 focused lamps that can be seen from space), floating between two buildings, causing a Lamborghini to disappear, surviving in an exploding C4 Crate, cutting himself in half in full view of an audience and getting run over by a steamroller while lying on a bed of broken glass.\n\nThe first season of the show was released on DVD after it completed its on-screen run. The show also released its Halloween special, along with two special episodes, on an additional one-disc DVD offering. The show returned for a second season in May 2006, and was named one of the best shows of the summer by the \"Tulsa World\" newspaper. The show was renewed for a third season in July 2006; as of that third season the show was A&E's number one rated show, with more than 1.5 million viewers. That year he promoted the show with a performance where he was suspended within a cube encased in concrete above Times Square, escaping from the block before it was set to crash to the ground. Magic effects creator Sean Field stated of Angel this year that, \"Criss Angel is the biggest name in magic since Houdini ... No other magician has invaded pop culture to the degree that Criss Angel has. He has changed the image of magic and made it cool.\" The show became one of the most popular foreign television shows in parts of Asia, including China.\n\nThe television show was noted as a part of the mid-2000s films, television, and books that drove a resurgence of the public popularity of magic. \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\" was the first weekly magic television show to air in 40 years. \"Daily Variety\" reviewed the premiere writing, \"The stunts alone are impressive. But what makes the show fascinating are the down-home touches in which we see the kid from New York, who first honed his magic skills at the age of 6. Keenly aware of the camera at all times, Angel manages to offer some personality, especially where family is involved. Viewers follow the illusionist as he contemplates new and more dangerous stunts, while his crew, including his often-fretful brothers, offer insight as to what, other than ego, drives someone in this profession.\"\n\nThe show ran from 2005 until 2010, at which point he had been featured for more hours on prime time television than any other magician in history. Other tricks performed in the show included making an elephant disappear and the performance of séances, as well as other tricks in order to teach his audience about con men and how to avoid scams intended to manipulate money out of people.\n\nIn July 2008, Angel escaped from a beachside hotel before its demolition in front of a crowd of about 50,000 people, an illusion that also aired on the television program. After the illusion, Angel showed the audience step by step how he achieved the escape. He first picked open a set of handcuffs that had him shackled to a balcony railing. He then smashed the window of the room in order to enter the hotel, and picked padlocks on both the room's internal door and the door to the stairwell. The escape was initially supposed to occur via a ladder that dangled above the hotel's roof 30 seconds before collapse, after picking through five locks on the roof's door. Instead, Angel emerged from the rubble after the collapse, claiming that the initial plan was always to escape via the helicopter. The total time allotted for the entire illusion was four minutes, with dynamite located on the first, second, and fourth floors of the building.\n\nIn 2006, Angel partnered with Cirque du Soleil to produce the stage show \"Criss Angel Believe\" (stylized as \"\"Criss Angel BeLIEve\"\"), premiering the show at the Luxor Las Vegas on September 26, 2008. It became the bestselling live magic show in the world. The name of the show was taken from Harry Houdini, for the mythology of Houdini choosing the word \"believe\" as the codeword for communicating with Houdini after his death. Luxor's parent company, MGM Mirage, financed the show with $100 million.\n\nAfter several delays, the show was set for a gala opening on October 31, 2008, with preview shows in late September on the 82nd anniversary of Harry Houdini's death. The initial preview received mixed reactions and reviews. Reporters for the \"Las Vegas Sun\", \"Los Angeles Times\", and \"Las Vegas Review Journal\" cited a lack of the magic Angel is known for, as well as a confusing and uninteresting theme. They also opined that neither Angel nor Cirque du Soleil were able to perform to their capabilities during these initial performances. On the positive side, the \"Las Vegas Sun\" later quoted Star Pulse, stating, \"He has created a live show that is everything a perfect magic performance should be — and then some. It's not just remarkable magic — it's transcendent art that won't just blow your mind; it will quite possibly change your life.\"\n\nIn April 2009, Angel ended a performance of \"Believe\" by \"hurling obscene insults\" at blogger Perez Hilton, an audience member. Hilton reportedly had texted to his fans during the performance that the show was \"unbelievably BAD\" and that he'd \"rather be getting a root canal\", and word had gotten back to Angel by the end of the performance. Cirque du Soleil later apologized to Hilton for Angel's remarks.\n\nIn 2010, the \"Las Vegas Sun\" critic John Katsilometes, after being unimpressed by the initial show, said \"Believe\" had improved by reducing the narrative elements and focusing on the magic. In 2011, the \"Toronto Star\" wrote: \"The show is easily the most exciting thing now on stage in Vegas!\" That year the show attracted an estimated $150 million in ticket sales. The show currently has a 10-year performance contract that runs through 2019, and was the best selling magic show in Las Vegas as of 2013.\n\nThe stage show celebrated its fifth anniversary of appearing on stage in October 2013. That month a cable television series based upon the show entitled \"Criss Angel BeLIEve\" was broadcast on Spike TV. The first season included 11 one-hour episodes, including 118 different illusions. Guests on the show include Ludacris, Ice-T, Randy Couture and Shaquille O'Neal. When asked about the three years between the last episode of \"Mindfreak\" and his return to television, Angel stated that, \"I didn't take long at all to go back to television. It was my choice to work on the live Cirque show and to get that where I wanted it to be.\n\n\"Now that that show is just humming and doing amazing business — it's the #1 bestselling magic show in the world as far as ticket sales and the perception that people are experiencing and coming back to see it multiple times — I felt it was in a great place and I could think about television again. Obviously, \"Believe\" will continue to evolve until its last performance because I always want to add new magic, I'm always tweaking and transforming it. I missed being on television, I had something new creatively to say, and Spike became the perfect home to do it.\" Endemol purchased the foreign distribution rights for the show, and was the \"most-watched new original series [on Spike TV] in more than 18 months\" according to \"The Hollywood Reporter\".\n\nIn the episode \"Lord of Illusions — Death Premonition\", Angel paid homage to Clive Barker, the director of the horror movie of the same name. In the episode, Angel performed the closing stunt from the film, in which he laid beneath a circle of suspended swords, and predicted the correct order of six falling swords to avoid becoming stabbed through his body after their release. The swords were selected by the audience with the help of a randomly bouncing ball. According to the \"Las Vegas Sun\", \"Criss is the only, and first, magician in the world granted permission from the inventor and filmmaker to re-create the film's death-defying stunt.\"\n\nFor another episode for the series filmed in New York City he was asked by the NYPD not to pre-announce the performance, as crowd control for some Angel performances had become a concern for the police. This trick saw Angel hanging his feet, while bound with two straitjackets and a noose around his neck which were attached to metal weights. While he was successful in the trick, Angel tore his shoulder muscles and this required surgery in January 2014. This resulted in the temporary closing of the \"Believe\" stage show between January and April 2014, while he was recovering from the surgery and returning to performance shape. He did however host a new stage show featuring other magicians between February and March 2014 in lieu of performing in his own show. Clips from the show also became the most watched YouTube magic clips in the history of the site, with more than 15 million views.\n\nIn the show, Angel revealed the secrets behind some of his illusions to the audience. This included the \"Lord of Illusions\" trick, where he revealed that he had the swords in a preset order so that he could avoid them. The episode featuring this illusion also includes a meeting between Angel and his team discussing a problem with the trick and how to ensure it does not happen again.\n\nStarting in October 2007, he appeared as a judge on \"Phenomenon\" with Uri Geller. In a CNN interview about the show, he told Larry King \"no one has the ability, that I'm aware of, to do anything supernatural, psychic, talk to the dead. And that was what I said I was going to do with \"Phenomenon\". If somebody goes on that show and claims to have supernatural psychic ability, I'm going to bust [him] live and on television.\"\nOn the October 31, 2007 episode of the reality show \"Phenomenon\", paranormalist Jim Callahan performed a summoning, purportedly of author Raymond Hill, to help discover the contents of a locked box. Although fellow judge Uri Geller praised the performance, Angel called it \"comical\" and subsequently challenged both Callahan and Geller to guess the contents of two envelopes he pulled out of his pocket, offering a million dollars of his own money to whoever could do so. This led to an argument between Callahan and Angel, during which Callahan walked toward Angel and called him an \"ideological bigot\", with the two pulled apart as the show promptly went to a commercial break. Angel has since revealed the contents of one envelope and at the unveiling he challenged Geller one more time. Geller responded, \"Although we were born one day apart - I was born on the 20th of December and you on the 19th - a lot of years between us - 40 years, you were one year old when I came out with my spoon bending...\" Criss Angel cut him off at this point, saying, \"I guess this is a 'no,'\" and proceeded to open the envelope. The envelope contained an index card with the numbers \"911\" printed on it for September 11, 2001. Angel's explanation was this: \"If on 9-10 somebody could have predicted that 9-11 was going to happen, they could have saved thousands of lives\". The other envelope's contents were scheduled to be revealed on the first episode of Season 4 of \"Criss Angel: Mindfreak\".\n\nThe temporary replacement show for \"Believe\" was entitled \"Criss Angel Magicjam\", which was performed in the same Luxor theatre. According to the \"Las Vegas Sun\", the show included, \"Longtime Las Vegas comedy-illusionist Nathan Burton; Banachek, the world's premiere mentalist; and new female magician Krystyn Lambert, who has been prominently featured in the Spike series ... joined by grandmaster manipulators Jason Byrne and Tony Clarke, supreme close-up artist Armando Vera and the magic comedy of Russ Merlin.\" The production was written and directed by Criss Angel. In January 2014, Angel announced that he planned on taking \"Criss Angel Magicjam\" on a North American tour during the summer of 2014. The show also featured Angel's own illusions, which he performed for about 40 minutes of the show. Robin Leach said of the show that, \"\"Magicjam\" is great fun and a high-energy show packed with mind-blowing magic.\"\n\nIn 2014, Angel premiered the stage show \"Mindfreak LIVE!\" The touring show features illusions from Angel himself, which received positive reviews. The demonstrations used in the show were developed in Angel's illusion laboratory in Las Vegas, located in a 60,000 square foot warehouse. His international touring with the show marked the first time that Angel had traveled with his show in about six years. The premiere show of the performance occurred at Foxwoods Resort Casino in Connecticut during November 2014.\n\n\"The Supernaturalists\" premiered in June 2015 at the Foxwoods Resort Casino's The Fox Theater, with Criss Angel serving as creator, director and executive producer. Performers for the show include illusionist Landon Swank, magician Krystyn Lambert, escape artist Spencer Horsman, mentalist Banachek, dog conjuror Johnny Dominguez, magician Stefan, and close up magician Adrian Vega. Robin Leach reviewed the show as having \"overwhelming positive reactions\" and wrote that it contained \"the most mind-blowing magic spectacle that's playing anywhere\". Angel has stated that the show is a culmination of ten years of development, which he began in 2005, and is intended as a global touring show and as a premiering venue for several new illusions from each magician.\n\nAngel has made numerous special television guest appearances on \"WWE Raw\", including acting as guest star on March 8, 2010. He also appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", including the premiere episode of its 24th season. During a 2007 episode of the show, he successfully guessed the number between 1 and 100 he asked Winfrey to think of without telling him. Angel has appeared on other talk shows including \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\", \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\", \"The Megan Mullally Show\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\", \"AVN Awards Show 2007\" and \"Larry King Live\" on CNN. He was also a guest on \"The Tonight Show\", \"Late Show with David Letterman\", \"America's Got Talent\", and \"The Rosie O'Donnell Show\". He also made a guest acting appearance on the hit television shows \"\", \"Las Vegas\" and \"Rules of Engagement\". In 2011, Angel also appeared in an Orville Redenbacher Pop-Up Bowl popcorn commercial.\n\nIn May 2005, Angel introduced honoree Ozzy Osbourne at the VH1 Rock Honors awards, biting the head off a bat as a part of the introduction in homage to Osbourne's early career onstage antics. At the 2007 MTV Video Music Awards, Criss Angel performed an illusion as a part of the musical performance by Britney Spears and helped to plan her stage show, which opened the television broadcast. He was also hired as the illusionist for the planned 2009 Michael Jackson O2 arena concerts before Jackson's death. In 2013, Angel had a cameo in the feature film \"The Incredible Burt Wonderstone\", and Jim Carrey's character in the movie \"Steve Gray\" has been said to be modeled after Angel. There is a wax statue of Angel in the Madame Tussauds wax museum in Las Vegas.\n\nAngel was the frontman for the heavy metal band Angel and collaborated with industrial rock musician Klay Scott for Angeldust. Angeldust released its debut album \"Musical Conjurings From the World of Illusion\" in 1998. He later released the albums \"System 1\", \"System 2\", and \"System 3\". In 2003, he released the album \"Supernatural\". His musical style continues to be in the heavy metal style, though when describing his musical style he has said, \"There are elements where it's more electronic, and there are orchestrated sections. I decided to take it in different places because I'm inspired by emotion and by giving people a connection, a sense of a feeling — whether it's excitement or crying or being happy.\" He also produced soundtracks for his television series \"Mindfreak\", including collaborations with members of Korn and Godsmack.\n\nAngel is the author of the book \"Mindfreak: Secret Revelations\", published by HarperEntertainment in 2007. \"Mindfreak: Secret Revelations\" appeared on the \"Los Angeles Times\" bestseller list that year. According to the \"Las Vegas Sun\", \"The 295-page book details the early beginnings of his career, memorable demonstrations from his TV show and personal reflections. \"Secret Revelations\" also contains several pictures and provides step-by-step instructions for 40 of his basic Mindfreaks. Laura Morton helped the magician write the book.\" \"California Bookwatch\" wrote that it \"tells of Criss Angel's evolution as a performance artist, magician and musician, charting his rise to fame beginning at age 6 and adding details of his life and his artistic philosophy and influences ... His survey covers the 'Mindfreaks' which allow him to push for excellence in very different worlds\".\n\nCriss Angel is the most watched magician in Internet history since the late 2000s. His clip, \"Walk on Water\", had received more than 39 million views by 2010, and more than 46 million by 2013. By early 2013, his videos had achieved more than 200 million views. Another highly watched clip is \"Rip Bodies Apart\" taken from the premiere episode of \"BeLIEve\", which had more than twelve million views within a month.\n\nIn 2010, Angel partnered with IdeaVillage to release the Criss Angel Magic Collection, which contained six Mindfreak Magic Tricks instructions, 250 tricks, and a magic kit for children. The product was backed by $50 million in marketing.\n\nAngel won the International Magician Society's Magician of the Year award in 2001, 2004, 2005, 2007 and 2008, in addition to its \"Magician of the Decade\" title in 2009 and \"Magician of the Century\" title in 2010. He was the 22nd recipient of the Louie Award for outstanding achievement in the art of magic. He has also appeared on the covers of \"Magic\" and \"Genii\" magazines. In 2008, Angel was one of the inaugural nominees for the Harry Houdini Award, awarded by the Harry Houdini Museum. Angel is the youngest magician to ever be inducted into the International Magician Society's Magic Hall of Fame. He is also the only man to have won the Merlin Magician of the Year award on two occasions, in 2001 and 2004. In 2011, he was awarded the World Magic Legacy Awards' Living Legend award. On July 20, 2017, Angel received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame, which is located next to The Hollywood Roosevelt Hotel.\n\nAngel is the holder of several world records, including the longest time submerged under water and the fastest time to escape from a straitjacket at two minutes and 30 seconds, the longest body suspension at five hours 42 minutes, and the fastest time to perform the \"Metamorphosis\" illusion at less than one second. He is also the holder of the Guinness world record for \"The most people to disappear in an illusion\", for making 100 people disappear on May 26, 2010 during a performance of \"Believe\" at the Luxor.\n\nIn 2002, Angel married his longtime girlfriend JoAnn Winkhart. The couple filed for divorce four years later. Although Angel was seen with his wife in the buried alive illusion (season 1, episode 6, 2005) and the body suspension illusion (season 1, episode 5, 2005), she was not credited as his wife; rather, she was listed as \"Criss's Girl\". In November 2008, Angel began dating Holly Madison, former girlfriend of Hugh Hefner. The relationship ended in February 2009. He proposed to Sandra Gonzalez on September 7, 2011 in Cabo San Lucas during a sunset dinner. They broke up shortly after. Since 2012, Criss has been dating Australian singer Shaunyl Benson. The couple have two sons together, Johnny Christopher, born 2014, and Xristos Yanni, born January 22, 2019.\n\nAs of 2010, Big Bear Choppers had produced seven custom-made motorcycles for Angel, who featured the motorcycle designers on his show \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\". He also had a Harley Davidson motorcycle built by Orange County Choppers, which he rode in the intro filmed for \"Criss Angel Mindfreak\". As a philanthropist, Angel created the Believe Foundation 'Believe Anything is Possible', and was awarded the Make-A-Wish Foundation award for most supportive celebrity on May 19, 2010. He was also awarded the foundation's Chris Greicius Celebrity Award in 2007. As of 2016, Angel's business interests made about $70 million in revenues annually.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279627", "title": "Jacques Touchard", "text": "Jacques Touchard\n\nJacques Touchard (1885–1968) was a French mathematician. In 1953, he proved that an odd perfect number must be of the form 12\"k\" + 1 or 36\"k\" + 9. In combinatorics and probability theory, he introduced the Touchard polynomials. He is also known for his solution to the ménage problem of counting seating arrangements in which men and women alternate and are not seated next to their spouses.\n\nThe following algebraic identity involving the Catalan numbers\n\nis apparently due to Touchard (according to Richard P. Stanley, who mentions it in his panorama article \"Exercises on Catalan and Related Numbers\" giving an overwhelming plenitude of different definitions for the Catalan numbers).\nFor \"n\" ≥ 0 one has\n\nUsing the generating function\n\nit can be proved by algebraic manipulations of generating series that Touchard's identity is \nequivalent to the functional equation\n\nsatisfied by the Catalan generating series \"C\"(\"t\").\n\nCanadian Journal of Mathematics 1956, Vol 8, No 3.; Journal in French\n"}
{"id": "2279628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279628", "title": "Dynamic currency conversion", "text": "Dynamic currency conversion\n\nDynamic currency conversion (DCC) or cardholder preferred currency (CPC) is a process whereby the amount of a Visa or MasterCard transaction is converted by a merchant or ATM to the currency of the payment card's country of issue at the point of sale.\n\nDCC allows the merchant, merchant's bank or ATM operator to charge a markup on the exchange rate used, sometimes by as much as 18%. Where the DCC markup is less than the card issuer's currency conversion fee, DCC can benefit card holders by allowing them to see the amount that their card will be charged expressed in the currency of the card's country of issue. However, in most cases, DCC markups are higher than the card issuer's currency conversion fee (which can be zero), thereby negating this benefit.\n\nDCC services are generally provided by third party operators in association with the merchant, and not by a card issuer. Card issuers do not provide cardholders with a DCC option at the point of sale, but these two card networks permit DCC operators to offer currency conversion in accordance with their card processing rules.\n\nWithout DCC, the currency conversion is carried out by the card issuer when the transaction is charged to the card holder's statement, usually a day or two later, but for an increasing number of cards in real time. Even though the card issuer will publish the exchange rate used for conversion on the statement, most do not disclose the exchange rate used to convert a transaction at the time of payment. Both Visa and MasterCard state that the rates they publish in advance of a transaction posting to a cardholder's statement are indicative, since the rates they use for conversion correspond to the date and time \"they\" process the transaction, as opposed to the actual transaction date.\n\nWith DCC, the currency conversion is done by the merchant or their bank at the point of sale. Unlike a credit card company, a DCC operator must disclose the exchange rate used for conversion at the time of the transaction according to credit card company rules which govern how DCC is offered. The DCC exchange rate must be based on a wholesale interbank rate, to which any additional markup is then applied. Visa requires that this markup be disclosed to the cardholder. The credit card company may still charge an additional fee for charges made outside the card holder's home country, even when the transaction has been processed in their home currency with DCC.\n\nProponents of this service believe that customers can better understand prices in their home currency, and this makes it easier for business travelers to keep track of their expenses. They also point out that the customer has full transparency inclusive of conversion fees, and can make an informed choice whether or not to use DCC. The financial benefit to the merchant or their card processor may be an incentive for the merchant to offer DCC even when it would be disadvantageous to the customer.\n\nOpponents of the service believe that customers do not understand DCC, and point out that DCC exchange rate markups are mostly higher than the card issuers' currency conversion fees that DCC avoids, and therefore, in almost all cases, opting for DCC will result in a higher charge to the cardholder.\n\nDue to the strategic threat posed by DCC on Visa's core revenues, in 2010 Visa attempted to ban DCC - The Australian federal courts found that Visa acted anti-competitively in order to protect its own revenues and was fined $20 million.\n\nA dynamic currency conversion service was offered in 1996 and commercialized by a number of companies including Monex Financial Services and FEXCO.\n\nPrior to the card schemes (Visa and MasterCard) imposing rules relating to DCC, cardholder transactions were converted without the need to disclose that the transaction was being converted into a customer's home currency, in a process known as \"back office DCC\". Visa and MasterCard now prohibit this practice and require the customer's consent for DCC, although many travelers have reported that this is not universally followed.\n\nVisa Chargeback reason code 76 explicitly covers situations where the \"Cardholder was not advised that Dynamic Currency Conversion (DCC) would occur\" or \"Cardholder was refused the choice of paying in the merchant’s local currency\". Customers have a strong chance of successfully disputing such transactions, especially in situations where they pay with a credit card and where Verified by Visa or Securecode is not involved.\nMastercard DCC Compliance team investigates the case \nand then notifies the Acquirer of their findings. If appropriate, the Acquirer \nwill also be asked to take action to remedy the complaint.\n\nMasterCard take seriously any complaint from a customer by investigating the case for compliance with DCC rules, and if the customer was not given a choice in a DCC transaction, the bank's customer has the possibility to refund the customer with a chargeback sent to the bank's merchant.\n\nDCC is only available at merchants that have signed up for the facility with a DCC provider.\n\nWhen a customer is ready to pay for a transaction and chooses to pay with a payment card, the point-of-sale terminal of a DCC merchant will determine the card's country of issue from the card's issuer identification number (first 6 digits of the card number). If it detects a foreign card is being used, then the transaction will be routed through the DCC provider, which may offer DCC to the customer.\n\nIf DCC is being offered, the terminal will also display the transaction amount in the customer's home currency. Visa and MasterCard require the DCC provider to disclose the exchange rate and margin to the cardholder, but not all merchants comply with this obligation, and other card issuers do not have that obligation. The cardholder can then select whether the transaction is to be processed in the local or home currency.\n\nIf the cardholder chooses to pay in their home currency, the DCC provider will cause the cardholder's account to be debited by the transaction amount in the home currency, and the merchant's account to be credited with the amount in the local currency. At regular periods, usually monthly, the merchant would also be credited with the commission for DCC transactions. The exchange rate risk is borne by the DCC provider, which may carry that risk or set up some hedging arrangement to minimise or transfer that risk.\n\nSome card issuers impose an additional foreign transaction fee on DCC transactions, even though they are denominated in the card's home currency.\n\nAn example of the difference with DCC can be seen in the following image, where the same GBP purchase is made twice just after each other: one with DCC and one without DCC. In both cases, the original amount is GB£6.90 and is paid with a Visa card denominated in EUR.\n\nThe difference in charges can be seen on the customer's card statement. With DCC (left part of the above image), the amount becomes EUR 8.20, at an exchange rate of 1.1882. The DCC provider, in this example the merchant itself, also disclosed that it is using the Reuters Wholesale Interbank exchange rate plus 2.95%. Without DCC, the amount can vary with fluctuations between the GBP and EUR currencies, but on the date of this transaction it was EUR 8.04.\n\nIn this example, difference is just over 2%. Though this difference may seem a small amount for the customer, it can result in a big income stream for the DCC provider and merchant. One should also realise that even without DCC the card issuer converts the transaction amount using its own exchange rates and margins, which in this example was 1.16522.\n\nThe merchant's point-of-sale terminal can only detect the card's country of issue and not the currency of the account that is to be selected. The DCC makes an assumption that the account home currency is the currency of the card's country of issue. This assumption can result in DCC being offered incorrectly. For example, a DCC-enabled terminal in the Eurozone will offer DCC to a customer paying with a debit card issued in the United Kingdom on a euro bank account. If the customer mistakenly chooses DCC, then the transaction will first be converted from EUR to GBP by the DCC provider, and then from GBP back to EUR by the UK card issuer, often with its markup.\n\nThere have reported cases of point-of-sale terminals allowing merchants to change the transaction amount and currency after the cardholder has entered their PIN and handed the terminal back to the merchant. In this scenario, DCC is carried out without the cardholder's consent, even though the receipt subsequently printed states falsely that the cardholder has given their consent.\n\nDCC operates similarly with Internet transactions. When payment card information is entered to finalize payment, the system can detect the home country of the cardholder and offer the cardholder the option of paying in their home currency.\n\nMany commercial websites can detect the country from which a query has come and quote prices in terms of the enquirer's country. Often the prices in the local currency of the supplier are not indicated, and the exchange rate used to convert prices is often also not disclosed.\n\nVISA issued a rule making DCC available for cash withdrawals at ATMs as of 13 April 2019. Mastercard now does the same.\n\nIn the VISA example, when DCC is NOT chosen, VISA converts currency at the wholesale (!) rate and adds a 1% charge for performing the conversion. The customer gets the \"real\" exchange rate (no commission) unless the card issuer adds a charge for international transactions. American banks, for example, often charge 3%, even though the debit order they receive is already presented for collection in US dollars. Some banks and other issuers make no extra charge, so the full international transaction cost is just the 1%.\n\nWhen DCC is applied, the alternate companies do the exchange and add the commissions described above, which have no limit. The bank card company, such as VISA, still takes its 1%.\n\nVISA rule 5.9.8.3 of 13 April 2019 says that ATM customers must be given a clear CHOICE whether to use DCC or not:\n\n\"A Merchant or ATM Acquirer that offers Dynamic Currency Conversion \n(DCC) must comply with all of the following:\n\"5 Acceptance\n\n\"-- Inform the Cardholder that DCC is optional and not use any language or\nprocedures that may cause the Cardholder to choose DCC by default\n\n\"-- Ensure that the Cardholder is given all the relevant information to\nallow them to make a clear and transparent decision to expressly agree to\na DCC Transaction\"\n\nThe reality is otherwise. The screen on an ATM announces the exchange rate that will be used and asks whether the customer accepts or refuses that rate. It appears to be \"take it or leave it.\" There is NO explanation that refusal will not end the transaction, but rather means the exchange will be done without charging the commission. The clear \"choice\" required by the rule is not presented. In addition, there is usually very small type giving the % of the commission and saying this is not an additional charge (which is false). On some screens there will be advice to be sure to know the rules, but no way is provided to learn the rules and bank tellers are generally unaware of them.\n\nDCC has proved popular with merchants because it enables them to profit from the foreign exchange conversion that occurs during the payment process for a foreign denominated credit card.\n\nCredit card acquirers and payment gateways will also take a profit on the foreign exchange conversion that occurs during the payment process for foreign denominated credit card when DCC is used. DCC revenue has been important for them because it offsets increasing international interchange fees.\n\nThe main advantage of DCC is that for a non-DCC transaction the customer does not know exactly the exchange rate that the credit card company will apply (and the final cost) until the transaction is cleared, so the actual rate is not known to the customer until it appears on a monthly statement.\n\nOther advantages to customers, according to proponents, are:\n\nFor the merchant which normally accepts credit cards, DCC offers an opportunity to earn a margin on the transaction with no exchange rate risk, which is borne by the DCC operator.\n\nThe main objection to DCC is the unfavorable exchange rates and fees being applied on the transaction, resulting in a higher charge on their credit card, and that in many cases the customer is not aware of the additional and often unnecessary cost of the DCC transaction.\n\nThe size of the foreign exchange margin added using DCC varies depending on the DCC operator, card acquirer or payment gateway and merchant. This margin is in addition to any charges levied by the customer's bank or credit card company for a foreign purchase. In most cases, customers are charged more using DCC than they would have been if they had simply paid in the foreign currency.\n\nIn May 2010 Visa Inc attempted to ban DCC on its network citing strategic issues and ultimately (as described by the ACCC) significant financial losses to its business. Many protests were made by merchants, financial institutions, and regulators.\n\nIn 2015, Visa was fined approximately 18 million plus $2 million in costs for engaging in anti-competitive conduct, in proceedings brought by the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission. The action was taken after Visa partially blocked the use of DCC 1 May 2010 to 6 October 2010.\n\nThe main DCC providers are:\n\n"}
{"id": "2279629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279629", "title": "Restraint on alienation", "text": "Restraint on alienation\n\nA restraint on alienation, in the law of real property, is a clause used in the conveyance of real property that seeks to prohibit the recipient from selling or otherwise transferring his interest in the property. Under the common law such restraints are void as against the public policy of allowing landowners to freely dispose of their property. Perhaps the ultimate restraint on alienation was the fee tail, a form of ownership which required that property be passed down in the same family from generation to generation, which has also been widely abolished.\n\nHowever, certain \"reasonable\" restraints will be given effect in most jurisdictions. These traditionally include:\n\nSome specific restraints on alienation in the United States include:\n\n\nTo be effective the restraint must be reasonable and the restraint must be the same as a real covenant or equitable servitude.\n\nThere are six factors to determine if a restraint on alienation is reasonable:\n\nThere are five basic conditions that must be met in order for there to be an effective real covenant and equitable servitude:\n\nIn New Zealand, \"Te Ture Whenua Maori Act 1993/Maori Land Act 1993\" puts restrictions on alienation of land owned by a Māori person, or by a group which is predominantly Māori. Sections 146 and 147 of the Act force an owner of Māori land who wishes to alienate their interest in the land to give right of first refusal to people belonging to \"preferred classes of alienees\". These preferred classes include \"whanaunga\" (blood relations) of the owner, other current owners, and members of the owner's hapu.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279630", "title": "Margi Clarke", "text": "Margi Clarke\n\nMargi Clarke (born 25 May 1954) is an English actress and radio presenter.\n\nClarke was born in Liverpool and brought up in nearby Kirkby. Her public career began in 1978, as a presenter on the late-night entertainment magazine show, \"What's On\", which was just shown in the Granada region. She was known then simply as Margox.\n\nIn 1983, Clarke appeared as Fran in two early episodes of the Liverpool-set Channel 4 soap opera \"Brookside\", credited as Margi MacGregor. Her brother Frank wrote her in, because, as she later said, she \"had a gas bill which I couldn't pay\".\n\nShe came to greater notice when she featured in the low-budget film \"Letter to Brezhnev\" (1985) about two working class Liverpool girls who meet two Russian sailors. The film was made for approximately £50,000 (Clarke called this \"the cocaine budget on \"Rambo\"\"), and became an international hit. Margi originated her role of Theresa in \"Letter to Brezhnev\" a few years earlier when she played the role in a modest run at the Liverpool Playhouse in 1983.\n\nIn 1986, at the \"Evening Standard British Film Awards\", Clarke was awarded the prize for \"Most Promising Newcomer\". She followed this with the European art-house trilogy for the Kaurismäki brothers (\"Helsinki Napoli All Night Long\", \"I Hired a Contract Killer\" and \"L.A. Without a Map\").\n\nClarke had a lead role in the films \"The Dressmaker\" (1988) and \"Strike It Rich\" (1990), and appeared in the Pet Shop Boys' video for their 1987 single, \"Rent\". She was the stand-in host for Paula Yates on Channel 4's \"The Tube\" on several occasions. Clarke was also the voice for the character of Bixie in the Weetabix adverts at this time. \n\nIn 1989, she was cast as Queenie in the long running BBC series \"Making Out\", set in a Manchester electronics factory and written by Debbie Horsfield. The show ran for three series. In 1991, she returned to presenting, this time on the late night ITV show \"The Good Sex Guide\" which gained an audience figures of 13 million. She received a Royal Television Society (RTS) Award for \"Best Female Presenter\" in 1994. A second series and third series followed. the last entitled \"The Good Sex Guide Abroad\". Clarke turned down an offer to take the series into a late night chat show format, the host eventually being Toyah Willcox.\n\nIn 1991 Clarke performed with Half Man Half Biscuit on the single \"No Regrets\", a cover of the song, \"Non, je ne regrette rien\", best known from the version recorded by Édith Piaf. In the same year she also portrayed Ronnie O'Dowd, a 'sexy' female boxer who follows her father into the world of 'pugilism' and rescues him from being 'on the skids' in New York to bring him back to Liverpool with her winnings in \"Blonde Fist\".\n\nFollowing the success of \"The Good Sex Guide\", Carlton TV offered Clarke her own day-time show, and the resulting programme, \"Swank\", ran for two series. In 1994, Clarke tried a new venture, stand-up comedy, and took her one-woman show \"21st Century Scutt\" around the country - the tour included a stint at the Edinburgh Film Festival and the Royal Festival Hall on London's South Bank. She was a regular guest on Channel 4's music show \"The Word\", including one occasion where she tricked presenter Terry Christian into showing his testicles in a hidden camera set-up.\n\nAround this time, Clarke's boyfriend was the artist Jamie Reid, and she was paid an undisclosed sum to pose nude while nine months pregnant with their daughter Rowan. The resulting pictures were a response to the then recent \"Vanity Fair\" spread of actress Demi Moore, in which she was shown nude while also nine months pregnant. The pictures of Clarke were published in Sunday tabloid, the \"Sunday People\". She also published her own vegetarian cookery book, \"Margi Clarke's Better than Sex Cookbook\". In 1994, Clarke teamed up with Welsh political band Anhrefn for the single \"Clutter from the Gutter\".\n\nHer last role before taking a three-year sabbatical, following the death of her mother and birth of her daughter, was in the BBC1 serial, \"Soul Survivors\" co-starring Ian McShane. She returned to acting in 1998, joining the soap opera \"Coronation Street\", playing Jackie Dobbs. She left in 1999, and joined the cast of Five soap opera \"Family Affairs\", staying for just under a year, as well as guesting in an episode of the BBC's \"Casualty\".\n\nShe also had roles in two films released in 2002, \"Revengers Tragedy\" (adapted from the 17th century play), directed by Alex Cox and \"24 Hour Party People\", the biopic of the Factory/Hacienda days in Manchester, which Clarke participated in during her 'Margox' days of the 1970s. In feature film \"The Boys from County Clare\" (2003) she played the role of Dove.\n\nIn 2004, Clarke appeared on the Five reality TV show \"The Farm\" and had a leading role in the theatrical film \"School for Seduction\" co-starring Kelly Brook. In 2006, Clarke had a role in an episode of the \"Hollyoaks\" spin-off \"\" and around the same time she was also a contestant on a celebrity version of the BBC gameshow \"The Weakest Link\".\n\nClarke is often referred to as \"The Queen of Liverpool\" by the media. This tag was originally attributed to Clarke by music promoter Malcolm McLaren. In 2005, she began her successful on-line health and beauty range \"Soul Rinse\" which she runs parallel to her acting career. In 2006/07, she was heard on the airwaves of North-West radio station 105.4 Century Radio as co-presenter of the breakfast show and their late night phone-in shows.\n\nIn August 2007, Clarke was a guest on \"Big Brother's Big Mouth\" on Channel 4 with Pete Burns, a Liverpool-born friend and performer for many years. At the end of 2007 it was reported in the \"Liverpool Echo\" that Clarke would be playing the role of Kath in a revival of the Joe Orton play \"Entertaining Mr Sloane\", as part of the city's Capital of Culture celebrations for 2008.\n\nOn 11 January 2008, as part of the opening night celebrations of Liverpool's European Capital of Culture year, Clarke was one of around a hundred local celebrities hoisted hidden in a blue container by a crane 30 feet into the air, landing on the main stage at St. George's Hall in the city. The celebrities stepped out of the container marked \"Precious Cargo\" to rapturous applause. The same evening Clarke appeared as a panel guest on the BBC Two late-night show \"Newsnight Review\", talking about her home town's Capital of Culture celebrations.\n\nIn January 2008, Clarke joined Liverpool's newest talk radio station City Talk 105.9, presenting a late night show on Saturday evenings.\n\nClarke returned to a prime-time starring role in the second series of the British comedy \"Benidorm\" on ITV in 2008 and reprised her role as Jackie Dobbs in \"Coronation Street\" on 2 January 2009, and again on 22 February 2010.\n\nAlso in February 2010, Clarke appeared with her daughter Rowan in an episode of the BBC's \"Celebrity Cash in the Attic\".\n\nClarke appeared in \"Scousers in St Helens\" on 26 October 2010 alongside Tina Malone, Billy Butler and several others. In late 2010, she recorded numerous music tracks such as \"Like a Memory\" and \"Holographic Disco\" which are now available on iTunes and in November 2010 she released her autobiography \"Margi Clarke - Now You See Me\". She has also appeared in an episode of the BBC series \"Waterloo Road\" in May 2011 and participated in \"Celebrity MasterChef\" in 2011. Clarke also appeared in the UK Christmas edition of \"Come Dine With Me\" in December 2012.\n"}
{"id": "2279634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279634", "title": "George Morley", "text": "George Morley\n\nGeorge Morley (27 February 1598 – 29 October 1684) was an English Anglican bishop, Bishop of Worcester and then of Winchester.\n\nMorley was born in London, England, in February 1598, to Francis Morley and Sarah Denham, and educated at Westminster School and Christ Church, Oxford. He graduated BA, 1618, and MA, 1621. Throughout the 1620s and 1630s he moved in the illustrious intellectual political circles of Lucius Cary, 2nd Viscount Falkland at Great Tew. During these years, he served as domestic chaplain to Robert Dormer, 1st Earl of Carnarvon. In 1640, he was presented to the sinecure living of Hartfield, Sussex, and in the following year he was made canon of Christ Church, Oxford and exchanged Hartfield for the rectory of Mildenhall, Wiltshire.\n\nHe preached before the House of Commons in 1642, but his sermon gave offence, and when in 1647 he took a prominent part in resisting the parliamentary visitation of Oxford University he was deprived of his canonry and living.\n\nLeaving England, he joined the court of Charles II, and became one of the leading clergy at The Hague. Shortly before the Restoration he came to England on a highly successful mission to gain for Charles the support of the Presbyterians. In 1660, he regained his canonry, and soon became Dean of Christ Church. In the same year, he was consecrated Bishop of Worcester. At the Savoy Conference of 1661 he was chief representative of the bishops. He was translated to the See of Winchester in 1662 and made Dean of the Chapel Royal in 1663, a position he held until dismissed by Charles II in 1668.\n\nHis works are few and chiefly polemical, e.g. \"The Bishop of Worcester's to a friend for Vindication of himself from the Calumnies of Mr. Richard Baxter\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2279636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279636", "title": "Peter Morwood", "text": "Peter Morwood\n\nPeter Morwood (born 20 October 1956, Northern Ireland) is primarily a fantasy novelist and screenwriter, though he has also written works of science fiction; his best-known works include the Horse Lords series and the Tales of Old Russia series. He lives in Ireland with his wife, writer Diane Duane, with who he has co-authored several works.\n\nMorwood was born Robert Peter Smyth in Lisburn, County Antrim, Northern Ireland, and lived there for more than thirty years. From 1969 to 1975 he attended Friends School Lisburn, a Quaker-operated primary and middle school, and then Queen's University in Belfast, where he studied English literature and acquired an honours bachelor's degree with an emphasis on middle-English poets such as Chaucer. During this period Morwood also took pilot training as a cadet pilot with the Queen's University Student Air Squadron of the Royal Air Force; though budgetary considerations (on the Air Force's side) forced Morwood to make a choice between his degree studies and his further studies as a pilot. He chose to continue his work in English literature, and subsequently resigned his commission. \n\nAfter graduation from university in 1979, Morwood took a position in the UK's civil service as a clerk working for the Customs and Excise. \n\nDuring this period he began work on his first novel, which he submitted and sold in 1982. He adopted the pen name \"Peter Morwood\" in honour of his mother, whose maiden name was Morwood, and he legally changed his surname to match the pen name in the mid-1980s. His second and third novels were published in 1984 and 1986.\n\nAt a science fiction convention in Glasgow, Scotland in 1985, Morwood was introduced by author Anne McCaffrey to his future wife, the fantasist and science fiction writer Diane Duane. After several more meetings and a brief courtship, Morwood asked Duane to marry him, and they celebrated their engagement at the World Science Fiction Convention in Atlanta, Georgia. Morwood then returned to Northern Ireland to complete his term of employment in the Civil Service, and resigned his post in December 1986. Shortly thereafter he relocated to Los Angeles, California, where Duane was working for the animation studio DiC. They were married at the New England regional science fiction convention, Boskone, on 15 February 1987. \n\nLater in 1987, Morwood and Duane relocated briefly to Scotland, and then, after a short period spent roving the United Kingdom, to County Wicklow in Ireland, where the two of them reside, in Dunlavin as of 2019.\n\nThese two sequences of books center on a feudal-style realm called Alba and the struggles of various clans for its domination. The first sequence is told from the point of view of Aldric Talvalin, scion of a warrior clan of Alba, who is unwillingly drawn into the bloody intrigues of Alban politics and the machinations of the Drusalan Empire, including its power-behind-the-throne, the evilly scheming and sorcerous Commander Voord.\n\n\nA fifth book (tentatively titled \"The Shadow Lord\") and a sixth (title as yet indeterminate) have been projected for more than two decades.\n\nThe four \"Horse Lords\" novels were reissued by DAW Books in 2005 as a pair of two-book omnibus volumes:\nIn Volume 2, the novel previously published as \"The Warlord's Domain\" was restored to its intended title, \"The War Lord\".\n\nThe \"Clan Wars\" sequence is (so far) a pair of prequels, telling the story of how the Clan Lords (including Aldric Talvalin's remote ancestors) invaded the land of Alba, settled it, and eventually came to dominate it.\n\nA third volume (tentatively titled \"Cradlesong\") is projected.\n\nThis series, densely interwoven with motifs from Russian folktale and legend, tells the story of the young tsar Ivan Khorlovskiy, heir to the throne of the city of Khorlov. Complications instantly ensue when he meets, on a battlefield full of the slain, the sorceress-tsarevna Marya Morevna, \"the most beautiful princess in all the Russias\", and becomes involved willy-nilly in her entanglement with the ancient and deadly being known as Koschei the Undying. The series goes on to deal humorously with the difficulties of a \"two-kingdom household\", especially when one partner is both a skilled sorcerer and the mother of one's (rather unusual) children, and – more seriously – with the political problems that can beset a small independent tsardom in the face of such threats as the Teutonic Knights and the Golden Horde of the Great Khan. \n\n\nA fourth volume, \"The Blue Kremlin\", is projected since the mid-1990s.\n\nMorwood has written one solo Star Trek novel:\n\n\nHe has also collaborated on one with Diane Duane (this novel was written during their honeymoon):\n\n\nMorwood has occasionally collaborated with Diane Duane on other novels, primarily in \"licensed\" universes or shared-world scenarios. These include:\n\nThe \"Space Cops\" sequence:\n\nOthers:\n\nMorwood has written various animated scripts, often in collaboration with his wife. These include:\n\n\nIn 1999, Morwood began development work along with Duane on a live-action retelling of one of the great German epics, the Nibelungenlied. The script they wrote between late 2002 and mid-2003 was produced as a miniseries for the German satellite network Sat.1 by Tandem Communications of Munich, in association with Sony/Columbia Pictures. Directed by Uli Edel, the miniseries, under the title Die Nibelungen, won a DIVA Award for best German movie-for-TV of 2004. A feature version, entitled Sword of Xanten in the UK, screened there late in 2004; a \"megafeature\" cut of the entire miniseries aired on Channel Four television in the UK in December 2005. \n\nThe miniseries had its premiere USA airing on the Sci-Fi Channel in late March 2006 under the title . It has also been released on DVD in the US and many other markets, under various titles (the previous US title is Curse of the Ring.)\n\n"}
{"id": "2279641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279641", "title": "Roy Cropper", "text": "Roy Cropper\n\nRoy Cropper is a fictional character from the British ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\", played by David Neilson. He first appeared on-screen on 19 July 1995. Originally a secondary character, he was given a more prominent role in 1997, by the executive producer of \"Coronation Street\", Brian Park. Roy has been featured in numerous high-profile storylines, most notably marrying the first transgender character in a British soap opera, Hayley Patterson (Julie Hesmondhalgh).\n\nIn 1995, Deirdre Barlow (Anne Kirkbride) moves into a new flat and meets fellow tenant, Roy Cropper, who seems over-helpful. Jamie Armstrong catches Roy reading a postcard Tracy Barlow (Dawn Acton) sent to Deirdre and calls him pathetic, thinking that Roy is stalking Deirdre. The tank bursts in 5 Crimea Street, making the Armstrongs and Roy panic, but Deirdre is unnerved by the way Roy takes advantage of the leak to try to get close to her. She is stunned when he tells her that he's sorry about her bereavement and tells Mike Baldwin (Johnny Briggs) of her discomfort. Roy pesters Deirdre late at night, inviting her for a drink. Mike tells Roy to leave Deirdre alone and he makes plans to move out. Tricia Armstrong (Tracy Brabin) overhears Roy apologising to Mike for stepping in on his lady-friend. Roy asks Tricia if she's the same as Deirdre; one of Mike's women and she tells him to get lost. Roy worries that Deirdre is brooding too much and fears that she may have a breakdown but he just annoys her as she sees Roy's concern as him pestering her. Roy alerts Mike to the fact that Deirdre is shutting herself away.\n\nBill Webster (Peter Armitage) and Jim McDonald (Charles Lawson) find a cast-iron fireplace while renovating the flats and decide to sell it, but Jamie tells Roy that they are stealing it and tries to blackmail them for £5. Roy gets a new job washing-up in a big hotel. To help Tricia out, he buys her TV for £30. Martin Platt (Sean Wilson) takes Roy on to help out in the cafe. Roy is interested to hear that Don Brennan (Geoffrey Hinsliff) has a ghost and offers the benefit of his experience, lending Vera Duckworth (Liz Dawn) books on ghosts and haunted houses. Vera and her husband Jack (Bill Tarmey) are alarmed to find Roy camping in their cellar at night searching for any signs of a ghost. He hasn't found anything.\n\nLiz McDonald (Beverley Callard) turns to Deirdre for help after Jim beats her up, with Roy paying her taxi fare for her. Roy gives Liz flowers and advises her to report Jim to the police for assault. Roy takes charge as the menfolk - Jack, Bill, Martin, Fred Elliott (John Savident), Alf Roberts (Bryan Mosley), Gary Mallett (Ian Mercer) and Billy Williams (Frank Mills) - set off to the races. Roy refuses to drink with the others and spends his time working out a formula to win on the horses. He fancies betting on \"Betty's Hot Shot\". The others join him as they like the name. \"Betty's Hot Shot\" wins at 50-1, giving the men £250 each. Jack suggests they invest their winnings by buying the horse as it's a selling handicap. The trainer, Hilary Forrest (Julia Goodman), tells them the horse has tons of potential. Roy pulls out of buying the horse but the others go for it. Jack bids on their behalf, unsure about what he's doing. The men buy the horse for £2,600 guineas, costing their winnings plus £90 each. Hilary agrees to keep training him. The men are horrified when Roy tells them it costs £10,000 a year to keep a racehorse.\n\nRoy volunteers to help out at the café so Gail Platt (Helen Worth) can have a week off with her family. Alma Baldwin (Amanda Barrie) is impressed by Roy's ideas on catering and his no smoking policy at the café. Jamie has no money for lunch so offers postage stamps instead at the café. Roy realises he is hungry and plays along, hiring his baseball cap for four hours at £1 an hour in exchange for food. Jamie thinks that he's mad. Gary starts to dig the foundations for the conservatory, scaling it all down so it will fit in the yard. He worries when Roy asks him about his anti-damp preparations and tells him that he won't get any sun as the yard is north-facing.\n\nGail can't cope with working and with Alma away, she gets Roy and Audrey Roberts (Sue Nicholls) to run the café. Roy considers starting a syndicate for the lottery which doesn't involve buying tickets as he feels the odds are against winning. He feels that there's too much gambling in the world. Gail finds it hard to concentrate at work and is surprised to discover that Roy knows how she feels as he explains how his father disappeared one day. He urges her to think positively.\n\nRoy purchases Alma's share of Jim's Café and goes into business with Gail, renaming the café, \"Roy's Rolls\". Roy meets Hayley Patterson (Julie Hesmondhalgh), with whom he instantly finds a rapport. Like himself, she is shy and naive; they find they have a lot in common and begin dating but during an intimate dinner, Hayley reveals that she is a transgender woman who has not yet undergone gender confirmation surgery. Roy reacts badly, rejecting Hayley and becoming depressed until Alma makes Roy realise that he has been hasty. When Hayley leaves to have gender confirmation surgery in Amsterdam, Roy misses her and goes to Amsterdam to meet her and bring her back. Hayley buys Gail's share in the café and she moves in with Roy. He proposes to Hayley on Valentine's Day 1999, but she initially declines due to the fact that the law does not recognise her gender as legitimate and thus misclassifies her relationship with Roy as same-sex, with same-sex marriage not yet legal in the UK. More problems arise when Hayley's secret becomes public knowledge. Roy is embarrassed but, following various arguments, he pledges to stand by Hayley and proposes again. This time she accepts, but when they go to see a vicar; he refuses to marry them. However, Roy meets Jessica Lundy (Olwen May), a curate who agrees to perform a blessing ceremony for him and Hayley but the church ceremony is ruined when Les Battersby (Bruce Jones) alerts the press. Roy and Hayley return to the café and have the blessing there instead and Hayley gets her surname changed by deed poll to Cropper.\n\nKnowing they can not have children of their own, Roy and Hayley become temporary foster carers, taking in troublesome sixteen-year-old Fiz Brown (Jennie McAlpine) and she causes them various problems. They also look after Wayne Hayes (Gary Damer) and form a close relationship. He visits them repeatedly and even his mother comes to visit on one occasion, worried about the influence Roy and Hayley have over Wayne. Wayne's stepfather, however, takes advantage of their feelings for Wayne and allow them to take custody of Wayne as long as they pay him for the privilege. However, eventually Roy and Hayley decide to stand up to Wayne's stepfather and refuse to give him back and even go on the run with Wayne briefly but Wayne's mother calls the police and reports them for kidnapping her son, and they are caught and arrested. The charges are dropped when Wayne's domestic situation is exposed.\n\nFor a bet with Bev Unwin (Susie Blake), Tracy (now played by Kate Ford) spikes Roy's drink at a wedding reception. She then takes him home and puts him in her bed. Tracy later announces she is pregnant with his child. Hayley is devastated and after she leaves Roy, he contemplates suicide. Hayley returns and the Croppers agree to buy Tracy's baby and wanting to make sure they have parental rights to the baby, Roy marries Tracy. Tracy gives birth to a daughter and she gives custody to the Croppers, who register her birth and name her Patience but Tracy reveals, on Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson) and Karen Phillips' (Suranne Jones) wedding day, that she wants her daughter back and that Steve is Patience's father, not Roy as they never actually slept together. Initially they refuse to give Patience back to Tracy, but are persuaded by Ken Barlow (William Roache); Tracy's adoptive father. Roy is devastated and he and Hayley reluctantly return the baby and Tracy renames her Amy (Elle Mulvaney). Roy and Tracy's marriage is subsequently annulled and feeling guilty, she repays the money that the Croppers gave her and asks them to be her godparents.\n\nRoy is bullied by builder Vince (Conrad Nelson) and his arrival brings up many unpleasant memories for Roy, as he recounts to Hayley the physical and psychological torture he suffered in his youth. When he is alone in the cafe, Vince comes in and demands a free meal. When Roy gives in and brings him a fry up, he says he asked for a poached egg, not a fried one. He then pushes the egg onto the floor and Roy attempts to push into him, but Vince pushes him onto the floor, knocking him against a table in the process. He is only stopped by Charlie Stubbs (Bill Ward), who warns Vince not to return to the Street, taking him outside onto the Street and punching him to the ground. Roy mentors Fiz's younger brother Chesney Brown (Sam Aston) and he sells his comic collection to buy a Morris Traveller.\n\nRoy is furious when he learns Hayley has a son and their marriage nearly ends. However, with support from his co-worker, Becky Granger (Katherine Kelly), Roy makes peace with Hayley and supports her when she decides to take a year out to do charity work in Mozambique. Roy allows Becky to move in while Hayley is away, but he throws her out when he learns about her affair with Steve. They later make up and Roy gives her away at her wedding.\n\nRoy finds Tony Gordon (Gray O'Brien) lying outside \"Underworld\" after he has suffered a heart attack. Roy calls an ambulance and Tony is rushed to hospital. Roy is shocked when Tony confesses to having Liam Connor (Rob James-Collier) murdered. Tony recovers and Roy fails to persuade him to confess the truth. Tony threatens to kill Roy and Hayley and they report him to the police, resulting in Tony's arrest. The police let him go due to a lack of evidence and Tony tries to murder Roy with a knife by trying to sneak up on him when he was bat-watching by the river, but Tony's mobile phone rings, alerting Roy, and ends up pushing Roy into the canal. On seeing his struggles as he can not swim, Tony rescues him and later hands himself in to the police, while Roy is found by Hayley and Becky.\n\nRoy proposes to Hayley again, but tensions over the wedding cause Hayley to move in with Anna Windass (Debbie Rush). A few weeks later, Tony breaks out of prison with the help of Robbie Sloane, a former cellmate and plans to hold Hayley and Carla Connor (Alison King) hostage at \"Underworld\". Robbie poses as a businessman and lures Carla into the factory alone before holding her at gunpoint, and leaving her tied to her office chair with her mouth taped shut. He then tells Hayley that Carla has had an accident to get her into the factory. Hayley sees Carla bound and gagged but Robbie holds her at gunpoint too before she can escape. Tony then arrives. Tony rips the tape off Carla's mouth and announces his plans to murder them. After hearing what has happened, Roy heads to the factory and begs for Hayley's life. After Carla pleads with Tony, Hayley is later released and she is then reunited with Roy, just as the factory is blown up; although Carla manages to escape but Tony kills himself by walking back into the burning factory. On the day of his wedding, Hayley is late due to some interference by scorned wedding planner Mary Taylor (Patti Clare). She eventually makes it to the ceremony and she and Roy are married. Roy receives a letter from his estranged mother, Sylvia Goodwin (Stephanie Cole), telling him that his stepfather has died. A few days later, Sylvia turns up in Weatherfield to give Roy a train set. Hayley asks Roy to let Sylvia move in with them and she begins working with Roy in the café. Sylvia asks why she has not yet had grandchildren, and Hayley initially passes her infertility off as menopause. She is livid to discover that Hayley is transgender, but after getting to know Hayley, she learns to accept her for who she is.\n\nEverything goes swimmingly for the Croppers, but in 2013, Roy tries to find his estranged father online, but learns that his father St. John has died just months earlier. He struggles to come to terms with his father's death, and begins sleepwalking. Hayley agrees to go through medical tests with Roy for support, but her own test results detect abnormal liver function, and is then diagnosed with stage-two pancreatic cancer. While the pair are on holiday to take Hayley's mind off things, Sylvia leaves a note explaining that she has left Weatherfield but does not give a specific reason. A while after, Roy and Hayley are dealt with the news that her cancer is terminal. Hayley then reveals that she wants to die before the cancer reverts her back to her old self, but Roy struggles to accept her decision. Arguments ensue regularly over her decision, and this leads to Hayley leaving Roy temporarily. While she is living with Fiz and her boyfriend Tyrone Dobbs (Alan Halsall), Hayley collapses and is told she has an infection. In December, the couple are told that she has weeks left to live, much to their devastation. Hayley tells Roy to only break the news to a selected few, including Anna, Carla, Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne), Fiz, Tyrone, Rita Tanner (Barbara Knox) and Dennis Tanner (Philip Lowrie).\n\nIn January 2014, Hayley decides it's time to end her life and after a final visit from Fiz and Tyrone, Hayley makes herself a lethal cocktail, containing drugs. Roy lies on the bed with Hayley as she drinks the cocktail, which kills her. Carla and Anna are worried about what is happening in the Croppers' flat and decide to investigate, where they find a dead Hayley on the bed with Roy's arm around her. Anna and Carla soon guess that Hayley committed suicide. Roy struggles to come to terms with Hayley's death, and is dealt with more stress when Fiz discovers that Hayley killed herself. She is furious and shouts at Roy before storming off. Roy is then angry with Hayley for ending her life and leaving him behind. After Hayley's funeral, Roy leaves a note for Anna and Fiz explaining that he has left Weatherfield to visit his mother Sylvia and aunt Jean. This relieves Fiz and Anna, but they are unaware that Roy has not gone to visit Sylvia and was last seen wandering the city streets.\n\nWhen a pipe bursts at the café, Anna and Fiz become worried about Roy's whereabouts. Fiz calls Roy's aunt Jean, who reveals that she has not seen Roy in six months and that Sylvia is on holiday in Tenerife. Anna then calls the police and Fiz nearly tells them that Roy is not coping after Hayley committed suicide, but she then thinks about the consequences and does not. When Roy's favourite shopping bag is found in a canal, Fiz and Tyrone frantically search Manchester armed with a photograph of Roy. When they eventually get home, Fiz reveals her worries to Tyrone and tells him that she thinks that Roy is dead.\n\nRoy returns in mid-February 2014, after being seen by Steve and Tracy at a railway museum. It is revealed that Roy has visited the museum every day since he disappeared from Weatherfield, to take his mind off Hayley's death. Roy is not seen for a while following his return to Weatherfield, and it is later revealed that he has been obsessively building a model railway in his living room. This shocks Fiz but fascinates Tyrone and Chesney.\n\nIn April 2015, Roy meets a widow called Cathy Matthews (Melanie Hill) at the allotment, she tells him that her husband Alan has died and Roy reveals his own struggle with grief when Hayley died. Roy gets on well with Cathy and decide to meet up to go to places such as the art gallery. Carla thinks against this and takes it as disrespect to his late wife Hayley. In July 2015, Roy visits Cathy at her house and is shocked to discover that she keeps all her rubbish piled up in the living room. Roy thinks that she needs support but Cathy is against the idea and won't take no for an answer. Roy prepares to go to Deirdre's 60th birthday party after spending the day with Cathy when Carla tells him the terrible news that Deirdre died, Roy reflects on the first time he met Deirdre and feels upset that she has died, Cathy comforts him.\n\nCathy and Roy soon start a relationship and later get engaged.\n\nThe character Royston Cropper, played by David Neilson, is introduced in July 1995 as \"a rather odd and scary loner\" living in a block of flats near the long-running character Deirdre Rachid (Anne Kirkbride). Actor David Neilson got the part on the recommendation of \"Coronation Street\" writer Stephen Mallatratt, a close friend of Neilson's who helped to \"mould the character\". According to Neilson, the character was initially only brought in for six episodes, but the role was extended and Roy was made into a regular character.\n\nDescribed primarily as an \"incidental character\", Roy is not given any significant storylines until 1997. Behind the scenes, the soap was going through a period of change. \"Coronation Street\" was lagging behind the BBC's rival soap \"EastEnders\" in the ratings, so a new executive producer, Brian Park, was brought in to revitalise the show and attract younger viewers. Aside from multiple axings and introducing various dramatic storylines, Park also decided to give some of the less prominent existing characters a much higher profile; among them was Roy Cropper, who was brought to the forefront of the soap throughout 1997 and 1998, taking over a share in Gail Platt's (Helen Worth) cafe (changing its name to Roy's Rolls). This gave the character more screen time and, gradually, he was incorporated into the lives of other characters.\n\nOriginally, Roy was intended as a psychopathic, villainous character whose tenure would last for only six episodes. Neilson described the character as \"scary\", and \"a bit like Norman Bates in [the horror film] \"Psycho\"\". However, Neilson felt compelled to reinvent Roy as a sympathetic character, socially inept, rather than menacing. His pestering of neighbour Deirdre Rachid and his unusual behaviour could be explained by Asperger syndrome—a disorder which Neilson has since attempted to portray in the character. This ultimately extended the character's screen life, turning him into a fan favourite. Misunderstood, he was almost evicted from his flats for his behaviour towards Deirdre, though he was actually only showing concern for her welfare. He was summed up by the character Mike Baldwin as \"a bit of a nutter, but harmless enough\". Although it has never been officially confirmed on-screen, it has indeed been suggested by critics that Roy has Asperger syndrome, due to his obsessive compulsive tendencies and because of his literal interpretations and miscomprehension of nuances and subtleties.\n\nDescribed as \"remarkably intelligent, but socially naïve\", Roy Cropper is a pure atheist. He is a fan of buses and trains, wears a beige anorak, scarf, woollen gloves and clutching a nylon shopping bag with a set of keys taped to the handle. Actor David Neilson has since revealed that his character's \"infamous old shopping bag\", complete with attached keys, were props that he introduced. The bag and keys belonged to Neilson's mother, who died shortly before he took on the role in 1995. He has commented, \"My mum sadly passed away just before I started on the show and I wanted to carry something of hers. I also wanted to add my own props and develop the character. The bag carries nothing more than my script.\"\n\nDespite Roy's initial \"creepy\" persona, viewers were eventually shown a different side to the character. He was converted from a creep to an eccentric; a quiet and shy intellectual man, with few social skills and a penchant for trivial information, but underneath it all, a man with \"a heart of gold\". He has been described as compassionate, moral, sensitive and full of integrity; taking in waifs and strays and helping his neighbours whenever possible. Commenting on his character, Neilson has said, \"Roy is absolutely his own person and hugely honourable. Some people think he's simple. He's not. He's a very complex man with hidden depths. And there's lots more to explore...There's something tragic about Roy. I think there is a big black cloud that follows him around and one day it is going to really dump on him.\"\n\nAs the character becomes more prominent, producers decided to introduce a romantic interest for Roy. Hayley Patterson is introduced in 1998, and her relationship with Roy turns out to be one of the more controversial storylines in \"Coronation Street's\" history, as it is later revealed that Hayley is a transgender woman. In an article published by \"Press for Change\" (a political lobbying and educational organisation, which campaigns to achieve equal civil rights and liberties for all trans people in the UK), an advisor who helped studio writers at Granada Television with this storyline has given an account on its conceptualisation: \"It was decided that Roy needed a girlfriend, but what kind of woman would go for Roy, or vice-versa? Ideally, she would have to be a female mirror image of himself. So the character started development and Hayley Patterson...was created. But then someone suggested something; what if she had a dark secret? What if she was transsexual!? Hayley being Harry, in her past life. After some argument and hard thinking, the idea stuck. It was a very controversial move for the long-running show... 'Corrie' had never gone this far.\"\n\nHayley's initial purpose was to boost ratings and to act as a \"foil\" for Roy, \"to bring him out of himself a bit and show another side to the man\". There were initial criticisms about the storyline and the character of Hayley from the transgender community in the UK, mainly because the actress who played Hayley was not transgender. However, as the storyline progressed, viewers and critics warmed to Roy and Hayley's romance. Hayley was finally shown to relay her secret to Roy during a candlelit meal in his cafe. Horrified, Roy rejected her, but after a period of reflection he eventually came around, resolving to remain friends with Hayley until she left for Amsterdam to undergo gender confirmation surgery. Although the character of Hayley was only meant to be short-term, she and her relationship with Roy were so well received by viewers, that the producers of \"Coronation Street\" decide to reintroduce her. On-screen, Roy tracks down Hayley and they reunite in a special set of episodes, shot on location in Amsterdam in the Netherlands; Hayley is persuaded to return to Weatherfield with Roy and rebuild their relationship. Actor David Neilson has complimented the storyline, describing the writing as \"absolutely beautiful\", and Roy and Hayley are now considered to be one of \"Coronation Street's\" \"classic\" couples.\n\nOn 12 November 2015, it was reported by the \"Sun\" newspaper that Neilson would be taking a three-month break as he wanted to join a stage show and tread the boards, while the break would also allow him to \"recharge\". The newspaper added that \"ITV\" said it was \"happy to accommodate\" his leave, and he will be written out of the show. Roy departed on 22 January 2016 as he headed to Hastings to care for his mother Sylvia; who had broken her hip. He returned to the show on 9 May 2016.\n\nFor his portrayal of Roy, Neilson won \"Best Actor\" at the 2013 Inside Soap Awards. Neilson won \"Best Actor\", \"Best Dramatic Performance\", \"Best Storyline\" (alongside Julie Hesmondhalgh), \"Best Single Episode\" (alongside Julie Hesmondhalgh) and \"Best On-Screen partnership\" (alongside Julie Hesmondhalgh) at The British Soap Awards 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279644", "title": "George Mitchell (Rhodesian politician)", "text": "George Mitchell (Rhodesian politician)\n\nGeorge Mitchell (1 April 1867 – 4 July 1937) served as Prime Minister of Southern Rhodesia from July to September 1933. Born in Ayrshire, he emigrated to South Africa in 1889, and moved to Matabeleland six years later to work as the manager of the Bank of Africa branch in Bulawayo. In 1901 he left the bank to become General Manager of the Rhodesia Exploration and Development Company, which sought to build up property.\n\nAfter retiring in 1918, he devoted himself to politics where he was a supporter of the Rhodesia Party and of responsible government within the colony of Southern Rhodesia. He was appointed to the government on 1 November 1930 as Minister of Mines and Public Works. From 19 May 1932 he served as Minister of Mines and Agriculture. When Howard Moffat resigned in 1933, Mitchell was chosen as the new Premier; he chose to change the job title to Prime Minister. His government was a short one, from 5 July 1933 until he lost the general election of September 1933 (losing his own seat in the process).\n\nBridger, P., House, M., and others, 1973. \"Encyclopaedia Rhodesia\", College Press, Salisbury, Rhodesia.\n"}
{"id": "2279647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279647", "title": "David Herd", "text": "David Herd\n\nDavid Herd or Hurd may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2279648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279648", "title": "Toronto Works and Emergency Services", "text": "Toronto Works and Emergency Services\n\nThe Toronto Works and Emergency Services department was responsible for a variety of services.\n\nThe department took over public works departments formerly managed by the former cities in Metro Toronto, as well as waste management portion of Metro Toronto Works.\n\nThe division reported to a deputy city manager and with the new executive committee it will report to Glenn De Baeremaeker, chair of Public Works and Infrastructure committee.\n\nToronto maintains a network of water filtration plants, pumping stations and reservoirs providing water to the city of Toronto. Some facilities are located outside the city, there are two reservoirs and one water tank located in York Region.\n\nIn the past waste water was dumped into the lake and thus caused the waters off Toronto to become polluted. Since then the city has treated water from households and industry and commercial consumers before it returns to Lake Ontario.\n\nMost of the sewage treatment facilities are located along the lake and sludge is sent to dumps and to other facilities in the province:\n\n\nPublic works projects initiated by the city involves items like repairing sewers, water networks, and maintaining city facilities.\n\nThere are approximately 1600 storm sewers that drain rainwater to creeks in rivers in the city. Accidental runoff from sanitary sewers have led to severe pollution in a number of water ways.\n\nCritical waterways used to drain water in the city include:\n\n\nThe city's Solid Waste Management is responsible for picking up garbage and recycling in the city. Most of the services are public with Etobicoke contracted out due to previously signed by the former City of Etobicoke:\n\n\n\nThe city once owned landfills in the Greater Toronto Area, but solid waste is now shipped to a landfill the city bought near St. Thomas, Ontario and another facility in Michigan. A list of some of the dumps being used or that were used in past:\n\n\nA list of waste management programs applied in Toronto:\n\n\nToronto has budget money and resources for salting and plowing city roads in winter. There are 600 snowplows and 300 sidewalk snow removal equipment run by 1300 personnel.\n\n\nThe current structure is as follows:\n\n\nToronto Water is a new body responsible for water and sewage treatment in the city.\n\nThe department was formed the merger of the public works departments of each of the municipalities and with Metro Toronto Works Department).\n"}
{"id": "2279652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279652", "title": "List of BDSM authors", "text": "List of BDSM authors\n\n\"This is a list of notable authors of fiction and/or non-fiction works about BDSM. For other notable people associated with BDSM, see List of people associated with BDSM.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2279658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279658", "title": "Toronto Water", "text": "Toronto Water\n\nThe City of Toronto Water Division is a municipal division of the City of Toronto under Infrastructure and Development Services that is responsible for the water supply network, and stormwater and wastewater management in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, as well as parts of Peel and York Regions.\n\nWater treatment was originally established in order to provide safe drinking water. In the 19th century, the water off the city's shores was severely polluted by the dumping of waste from residences and businesses.\n\nBefore 1842, Toronto's water supply was manually pumped from Lake Ontario, streams and wells.\n\nWater carters would take the water and distribute it to customers across the city.\n\nFrom 1843 to 1873, water was privately provided by Furniss Works or Toronto Water Works, a subsidiary of Toronto Gas Light and Water Company, which was owned by Montreal businessman Albert Furniss.\n\nFollowing Furniss's death in 1872, the City of Toronto bought out Furniss Works and transformed the water supply to public hands under the Toronto Water Works Commission.\n\nOutside of the pre-amalgamation City of Toronto each of the former municipalities had their own treatment plants and pumping stations:\n\n\nPrior to the 1950s, the municipalities were responsible for water treatment and water came from local water sources like wells and streams.\n\nThe current system was introduced in the mid-1950s, with the formation of Metro Toronto in 1954, and was managed by Metro Toronto. Following amalgamation in 1998, Toronto Water was created from the Toronto Works and Emergency Services and once part of Metro Toronto Works department. Since 1975, Toronto has supplied water to York Region (mostly to residents in the south end of York).\n\nWater pumped from Lake Ontario is treated via conventional drinking water treatment processes:\n\n\nThe City of Toronto uses four water treatment plants:\n\n\nThe drinking water distribution system operated by Toronto Water comprises 6 pressure zones and approximately 520 km of watermains (greater than 150 mm in diameter) \n\nPumping stations are located across the city to pump water from the filtration plants to residences. They are particularly critical since the city gains in elevation as it moves northwards away from Lake Ontario.\nSome pumping stations are located outside the city.\n\nThere are two pumping stations located outside of the city limits and part of the water service provided to York Region by Toronto:\n\nToronto water stores water in three formats:\n\nWater in the city is stored once it is treated, ensuring uninterrupted water supply.\n\nThere are 5 water towers located in the city and 1 outside the city. They are mainly located in areas that cannot accommodate underground reservoirs due to space restrictions.\n\nThere are 10 underground reservoirs across Toronto and in Markham:\n\nThere are in-plant temporary storage tanks storing water as well:\n\nIn addition to water storage, the City has also constructed the following subterranean storm water detention tanks:\n\nThe city of Toronto has four facilities that process wastewater before it is returned to the lake.\n\n\nAs of April 2005, the departments and commissioners were replaced by divisions under the City Manager (and Deputy Managers). Toronto Water is now under the Toronto Water Division.\n"}
{"id": "2279660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279660", "title": "LMS Princess Coronation Class 6229 Duchess of Hamilton", "text": "LMS Princess Coronation Class 6229 Duchess of Hamilton\n\nLondon Midland and Scottish Railway (LMS) Princess Coronation Class 6229 (British Railways number 46229) Duchess of Hamilton is a preserved steam locomotive built in September 1938 by the LMS Crewe Works and operated until February 1964.\n\n6229 was built in 1938 at Crewe as the tenth member of its class and the last in the second batch of five red streamliners, complete with gold speed cheat stripes (the original five 6220-4 having been given a unique Caledonian blue livery with silver stripes). In 1939 no. 6229 swapped identities with the first of the class 6220 \"Coronation\" and was sent to North America with a specially-constructed \"Coronation Scot\" train to appear at the 1939 New York World's Fair. There was therefore for a while a blue 6229 \"Duchess of Hamilton\" in the UK and a red 6220 \"Coronation\" in the USA. R.A. Riddles drove for most of the tour, owing to the illness of the assigned driver. The locomotive (though not its carriages) was shipped back from the States in 1942 after the outbreak of the Second World War, and the identities of the locomotives were swapped back in 1943. The carriages returned in 1946.\n\n6229 was painted wartime black livery in November 1944. Its streamlined casing was removed for maintenance-efficiency reasons in December 1947 and it was then given the LMS 1946 black livery. In 1948, 6229 passed into BR ownership. BR renumbered the locomotive as 46229 on 15 April 1948. It was painted in the short-lived BR blue livery in April 1950, but was soon repainted on 26 April 1952 into Brunswick green. The semi-streamlined smokebox was replaced with a round-topped smokebox in February 1957, and in September 1958 the locomotive was painted maroon. The lining was BR style to begin with; then in October 1959 it received the current LMS style lining which it has carried for all the years in preservation.\n\n46229 was saved from the scrap yard along with non streamlined classmate 6233 \"Duchess of Sutherland\", as a result of Sir Billy Butlin's efforts to place these locomotives as children's playground exhibits at his holiday camps. The third preserved member of the class 6235 \"City of Birmingham\" was donated by British Railways to Birmingham City Council for preservation within the Birmingham Industrial Museum.\n\nHaving started construction work in the winter of 1961, the new £2 million Butlins Minehead camp opened to the public on 26 May 1962. \"Duchess of Hamilton\" and LB&SCR A1 class \"Knowle\" were added in 1964, after being transported there by Pickfords.\n\nUnder a camp refurbishment and modernisation programme, the locomotives left the holiday camp in March 1975 via railhead access at Minehead railway station and the then closed West Somerset Railway. In 1976, the Friends of the National Railway Museum accepted the locomotive from Butlin's on a twenty-year loan deal, and immediately began to restore and preserve it. It first ran as the Museum's flagship locomotive in 1980 and was operational until 1985. After purchasing the locomotive from Butlin's in 1987, after an extensive overhaul it resumed running in 1989, withdrawn from main line duty in 1996 when its seven-year boiler ticket expired.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2005, 46229 was a static exhibit in the National Railway Museum, standing next to \"Mallard\". In September 2005 the National Railway Museum announced that the streamlining would be re-instated, returning the locomotive to its original appearance. This work was undertaken at Tyseley Locomotive Works and on 18 May 2009 it was returned to the National Railway Museum, going on display in a new exhibition called \"Duchess of Hamilton Streamlined: Styling An Era\". Since then, the locomotive is on display next to a 1937 Chrysler Airflow.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279661", "title": "Toronto and Region Conservation Authority", "text": "Toronto and Region Conservation Authority\n\nThe Toronto and Region Conservation Authority (TRCA) or Office de protection de la nature de Toronto et de la région is one of 36 conservation authorities in Ontario, Canada. It owns more than of land in the Toronto region and employs more than 400 full-time employees and coordinates more than 3,000 volunteers each year. TRCA's area of jurisdiction is watershed-based, and includes 3,467 square kilometres: 2,506 on land and 961 water-based in Lake Ontario. This area comprises nine watersheds from west to east: Etobicoke Creek, Mimico Creek, Humber River, Don River, Highland Creek, Petticoat Creek, Rouge River, Duffins Creek, Carruthers Creek.\n\nThe lands TRCA administers are used for flood control, recreation, education and watershed preservation activities, including drinking water source protection. On several sites, TRCA operates conservation areas open to the public for recreational use. The TRCA also operates the Black Creek Pioneer Village, which preserves several 1800s-era buildings in a pioneer setting. Several municipal parks inside and outside Toronto are located on TRCA lands, such as the Toronto Zoo, Humber Bay Park and Milne Park. The TRCA operates five dams for flood control.\n\nBased out of its Kortright Centre for Conservation, the TRCA offers knowledge and experience to help its partners contribute to a healthy city region. This includes ecology and the study of water quality, natural habitats, plants, animals and more. It helps identify environmental needs, set targets, and restore natural areas. It advises partners about land use, development proposals and construction, and environmental education to help students and community members appreciate their local environment and learn to look after it. This work is focused in and around Toronto including portions of the Regions of Peel, York, and Durham.\n\nIn 1946, a number of conservation authorities were established by the Province to administer the numerous watersheds of the Toronto region (Don Valley CA, Etobicoke-Mimico CA, Humber Valley CA, Rouge CA, Duffin Creek CA, Highland Creek CA and Petticoat Creek CA) under the Conservation Authorities Act. These early conservation authorities were funded by the municipalities that bordered on their valleys, and any land purchases had to be proposed and funded from either the Province of Ontario grants, local municipal levies or grants on a project-by-project basis. For example, in 1951, the Don Valley CA proposed a conservation area at the point where Lawrence Avenue today crosses the East Don River in Toronto. The DVCA also proposed a halt on transportation uses in the valley. Funding was not approved for the project and the land was eventually used for the Don Valley Parkway project.\n\nIn conjunction with the formation of the conservation authorities, volunteer organizations sprang up to assist the conservation authorities in their missions. In Toronto, the Don Valley Conservation Association was established in 1946 by Roy Cadwell, Rand Freeland and Charles Sauriol to protect the lands of the Don River valley from a proposed development. The Association went on to other activities, including tree plantings, wild flower and tree preservation and advocacy. The Association organized popular 'conservation special' train outings from the Don Station north along the CNR line to Richmond Hill and other destinations to promote the conservation of the Don Valley. Sauriol would later become a director of the MTRCA.\n\nWatershed management also included promoting activities such as recreation and public education on authority lands. The Humber Valley CA opened Albion Hills Conservation Area in Caledon as well as Dalziel Pioneer Park, around a historic 1809 barn located on farmland in the Humber River valley. The designated conservation areas charged daily use fees for the general public to use their facilities, unlike typical public parks.\n\nAfter the deaths and damage of Hurricane Hazel in 1954, governments recognized the need for improved regulation of river floodplains. In 1957, the four Toronto-area authorities were merged into the single Metro Toronto and Region Conservation Authority and given full legal authority to purchase and expropriate lands for conservation. In conjunction with this, the Province of Ontario passed legislation that made building on floodplains illegal. The authority retained the name until 1997, when Metro Toronto was abolished.\n\nIn 1959, MTRCA developed its \"Plan for Flood Control and Water Conservation,\" which outlined a CDN $22 million plan of dam construction, flood channel construction and floodplain acquisition. In total, 15 dams, four channels were to be built and of land to be acquired. The MTRCA constructed three of the 15 dams: Clairville, Milne and G. Ross Lord dam, plus others in Stouffville and on the Black Creek. The Authority constructed twelve flood control channels and two flood control dykes. Over 280 erosion control works were also constructed.\n\nThe MTRCA continued to operate the Dalziel Pioneer Park. In 1960, the MTRCA opened Black Creek Pioneer Village on the Stong Farm, at the corner of Jane and Steeles on the Black Creek, which expanded on the Dalziel lands. It subsequently added other pioneer buildings relocated from around the Toronto area. The village became a popular tourist destination in its own right.\n\nIn 1982, the MTRCA opened the Kortright Centre for Conservation in Woodbridge, Ontario. Its mission is to be \"a centre of excellence in the field of sustainable technology\". The 325 hectare property hosts educational programs for students, workshops for industry and the general public, technology demonstrations in a park-like setting.\n\nA list of parks and conservation areas under the TRCA:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279663", "title": "Social cycle theory", "text": "Social cycle theory\n\nSocial cycle theories are among the earliest social theories in sociology. Unlike the theory of social evolutionism, which views the evolution of society and human history as progressing in some new, unique direction(s), sociological cycle theory argues that events and stages of society and history generally repeat themselves in cycles. Such a theory does not necessarily imply that there cannot be any social progress. In the early theory of Sima Qian and the more recent theories of long-term (\"secular\") political-demographic cycles as well as in the Varnic theory of P.R. Sarkar an explicit accounting is made of social progress.\n\nInterpretation of history as repeating cycles of Dark and Golden Ages was a common belief among ancient cultures.\n\nThe more limited cyclical view of history defined as repeating cycles of events was put forward in the academic world in the 19th century in historiosophy (a branch of historiography) and is a concept that falls under the category of sociology. However, Polybius, Ibn Khaldun (see Asabiyyah), and Giambattista Vico can be seen as precursors of this analysis. The Saeculum was identified in Roman times. In recent times, P. R. Sarkar in his Social Cycle Theory has used this idea to elaborate his interpretation of history.\n\nAmong the prominent historiosophers, Russian philosopher Nikolai Danilewski (1822–1885) is important. In \"Rossiia i Evropa\" (1869) he differentiated between various smaller civilizations (Egyptian, Chinese, Persian, Greek, Roman, German, and Slav, among others). He wrote that each civilization has a life cycle, and by the end of the 19th century the Roman-German civilization was in decline, while the Slav civilization was approaching its Golden Age. A similar theory was put forward by Oswald Spengler (1880–1936) who in his \"Der Untergang des Abendlandes\" (1918) also argued that the Western civilization had entered its final phase of development and its decline was inevitable.\n\nThe first social cycle theory in sociology was created by Italian sociologist and economist Vilfredo Pareto (1848–1923) in his \"Trattato di Sociologia Generale\" (1916). He centered his theory on the concept of an elite social class, which he divided into cunning 'foxes' and violent 'lions'. In his view of society, the power constantly passes from the 'foxes' to the 'lions' and vice versa.\n\nSociological cycle theory was also developed by Pitirim A. Sorokin (1889–1968) in his \"Social and Cultural Dynamics\" (1937, 1943). He classified societies according to their 'cultural mentality', which can be ideational (reality is spiritual), sensate (reality is material), or idealistic (a synthesis of the two). He interpreted the contemporary West as a sensate civilization dedicated to technological progress and prophesied its fall into decadence and the emergence of a new ideational or idealistic era.\n\nAlexandre Deulofeu (1903–1978) developed a mathematical model of social cycles that he claimed fit historical facts. He argued that civilizations and empires go through cycles in his book \"Mathematics of History\" (in Catalan, published in 1951). He claims that each civilization passes through a minimum of three 1700-year cycles. As part of civilizations, empires have an average lifespan of 550 years. He also stated that by knowing the nature of these cycles, it could be possible to modify the cycles in such a way that change could be peaceful instead of leading to war. Deulofeu believed he had found the origin of Romanesque art, during the 9th century, in an area between Empordà and Roussillon, which he argued was the cradle of the second cycle of western European civilization.\n\nMuch of Post Apocalyptic fiction depicts various kinds of cyclical history, with depictions of civilization collapsing and being slowly built up again to collapse again and so on.\n\nAn early example is Anatole France's 1908 satirical novel ) (\"Penguin Island\") which traces the history of Penguinia - a thinly disguised analogue of France - from medieval times to the modern times and into a future of a monstrous super-city - which eventually collapses. This is followed by a renewed Feudalism and agrarian society, and a gradual building up of increasingly advanced civilization - culminating with a new monstrous super-city which would eventually collapse again, and so on. \n\nA later example is Walter M. Miller Jr.'s \"A Canticle for Leibowitz\", which begins in the aftermath of a devastating nuclear war, with the Catholic Church seeking to preserve a remnant of old texts (as it did in the historical Early Middle Ages), and ends with a new civilization, built up over two thousand years, once again destroying itself in a nuclear war - and a new group of Catholic clergy yet again setting out to preserve a remnant of civilized knowledge.\n\nIn the future depicted in \"October the First Is Too Late\", a 1966 science fiction novel by astrophysicist Fred Hoyle, the protagonists fly over where they expected to see the United States, but see no sign of urban civilization. At first assuming they were in the pre-1750 past, they later find it was a future time. Humanity is doomed to go through repeated cycles of industrialization, overpopulation, collapse - followed by rebuilding, and then again industrialization, overpopulation and collapse and so on, over and over again. In the far future, a civilization which is aware of this history no longer wants progress.\n\nOne of the most important recent findings in the study of the long-term dynamic social processes was the discovery of the political-demographic cycles as a basic feature of the dynamics of complex agrarian systems.\n\nThe presence of political-demographic cycles in the pre-modern history of Europe and China, and in chiefdom level societies worldwide has been known for quite a long time, and already in the 1980s more or less developed mathematical models of demographic cycles started to be produced (first of all for Chinese \"dynastic cycles\") (Usher 1989). At the moment we have a considerable number of such models (Chu and Lee 1994; Nefedov 1999, 2002, 2003, 2004; S. Malkov, Kovalev, and A. Malkov 2000; S. Malkov and A. Malkov 2000; Malkov and Sergeev 2002, 2004a, 2004b; Malkov et al. 2002; Malkov 2002, 2003, 2004; Turchin 2003, 2005a; Korotayev et al. 2006).\n\nGeorge Modelski, who presented his ideas in the book, \"Long Cycles in World Politics\" (1987), is the chief architect of long cycle theory. In a nutshell, long cycle theory describes the connection between war cycles, economic supremacy, and the political aspects of world leadership.\n\nLong cycles, or long waves, offer interesting perspectives on global politics by permitting \"the careful exploration of the ways in which world wars have recurred, and lead states such as Britain and the United States have succeeded each other in an orderly manner.\" Not to be confused with Simon Kuznets' idea of long-cycles, or long-swings, long cycles of global politics are patterns of past world politics.\n\nThe long cycle, according to Dr. Dan Cox, is a period of time lasting approximately 70 to 100 years. At the end of that period, \"the title of most powerful nation in the world switches hands.\". Modelski divides the long cycle into four phases. When periods of global war, which could last as much as one-fourth of the total long cycle, are factored in, the cycle can last from 87 to 122 years.\n\nMany traditional theories of international relations, including the other approaches to hegemony, believe that the baseline nature of the international system is anarchy. Modelski's long cycle theory, however, states that war and other destabilizing events are a natural product of the long cycle and larger global system cycle. They are part of the living processes of the global polity and social order. Wars are \"systemic decisions\" that \"punctuate the movement of the system at regular intervals.\" Because \"world politics is not a random process of hit or miss, win or lose, depending on the luck of the draw or the brute strength of the contestants,\" anarchy simply doesn't play a role. After all, long cycles have provided, for the last five centuries, a means for the successive selection and operation of numerous world leaders.\n\nModeslki used to believe that long cycles were a product of the modern period. He suggests that the five long cycles, which have taken place since about 1500, are each a part of a larger global system cycle, or the modern world system.\n\nUnder the terms of long cycle theory, five hegemonic long cycles have taken place, each strongly correlating to economic Kondratieff Waves (or K-Waves). The first hegemon would have been Portugal during the 16th century, then the Netherlands during the 17th century. Next, Great Britain served twice, first during the 18th century, then during the 19th century. The United States has been serving as hegemon since the end of World War II.\n\nIn 1988, Joshua S Goldstein advanced the concept of the political midlife crisis in his book on \"long cycle theory\", \"Long Cycles: Prosperity and War in the Modern Age\", which offers four examples of the process:\n\n\nIn economics, Kondratiev waves (also called supercycles, great surges, long waves, K-waves or the long economic cycle) are hypothesized cycle-like phenomena in the modern world economy.\n\nIt is stated that the period of a wave ranges from forty to sixty years, the cycles consist of alternating intervals of high sectoral growth and intervals of relatively slow growth.\n\nRecently the most important contributions to the development of the mathematical models of long-term (\"secular\") sociodemographic cycles have been made by Sergey Nefedov, Peter Turchin, Andrey Korotayev, and Sergey Malkov. What is important is that on the basis of their models Nefedov, Turchin and Malkov have managed to demonstrate that sociodemographic cycles were a basic feature of complex agrarian systems (and not a specifically Chinese or European phenomenon).\n\nThe basic logic of these models is as follows:\nIt has become possible to model these dynamics mathematically in a rather effective way. Note that the modern theories of political-demographic cycles do not deny the presence of trend dynamics and attempt at the study of the interaction between cyclical and trend components of historical dynamics.\n\nThe Strauss–Howe generational theory, also known as the Fourth Turning theory or simply the Fourth Turning, which was created by authors William Strauss and Neil Howe, describes a theorized recurring generation cycle in American history. According to the theory, historical events are associated with recurring generational personas (archetypes). Each generational persona unleashes a new era (called a turning) in which a new social, political, and economic climate exists. Turnings tend to last around 20–22 years. They are part of a larger cyclical \"saeculum\" (a long human life, which usually spans between 80 and 90 years, although some \"saecula\" have lasted longer). The theory states that after every saeculum, a crisis recurs in American history, which is followed by a recovery (high). During this recovery, institutions and communitarian values are strong. Ultimately, succeeding generational archetypes attack and weaken institutions in the name of autonomy and individualism, which ultimately creates a tumultuous political environment that ripens conditions for another crisis.\n\nThe Cyclical theory (United States history) is a theory of US history developed by Arthur M. Schlesinger Sr. and Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr.. It states that US history alternates between two kinds of phases:\nEach kind of phase generates the other. Liberal phases generate conservative phases from activism burnout, and conservative phases generate liberal phases from accumulation of unsolved problems.\n\nFrank Klingberg has proposed a cyclic theory of US foreign policy. It states that the US alternates between extroverted phases, phases involving military adventures, challenging other nations, and annexing territory, and introverted phases, phases with the absence of these activities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279666", "title": "List of BDSM artists", "text": "List of BDSM artists\n\nThis is a list of notable artists in the field of BDSM art: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279673", "title": "A. niger", "text": "A. niger\n\nA. niger may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2279674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279674", "title": "List of BDSM photographers", "text": "List of BDSM photographers\n\n\"This is a list of notable photographers in the field of BDSM. For other notable people associated with BDSM, see List of people associated with BDSM.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2279675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279675", "title": "Tracy Barlow", "text": "Tracy Barlow\n\nTracy McDonald (also Barlow, Preston, Cropper and Langton) is a fictional character and the main antagonist from the British ITV soap opera, \"Coronation Street\". She was born on screen during the episode broadcast on 24 January 1977. She was played by Christabel Finch until 21 November 1983. Holly Chamarette played the role from 8 July 1985 until 23 March 1988. Dawn Acton played the role from 12 December 1988, until 14 June 1995, Acton reprised the role in November 1996, and departed in December 1997. She reprised the role once again on 17 March 1999 and made her final appearance as Tracy on 10 October 1999. Kate Ford took over the role from 25 December 2002, until 8 April 2007. Ford reprised the role for a brief stint from late May to early June 2010, before returning full-time from 24 December 2010 onwards.\n\nTracy is the daughter of Ray Langton (Neville Buswell) and Deirdre Barlow (Anne Kirkbride). Tracy never had much to do with Ray and was later adopted by Deirdre's new husband Ken Barlow (William Roache). Early storylines featuring Tracy concentrated on her childhood. She went on to feature in storylines about drugs, various family crises, relationships with Roy Cropper (David Neilson) and Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson), a feud with Steve's ex-wife Karen McDonald (Suranne Jones), and a short-lived marriage to Robert Preston (Julian Kay). Her exit storyline in 2007 was the culmination of a storyline that saw Tracy imprisoned for killing her boyfriend Charlie Stubbs (Bill Ward) in revenge. In the on-screen events, Tracy was sentenced to 15 years in prison. Her brief return in May 2010 saw the character lie about Gail McIntyre (Helen Worth) confessing to murdering husband Joe McIntyre (Reece Dinsdale). Her return in December 2010 saw her released from prison after forensic evidence used at her trial was discredited, and getting her daughter Amy Barlow (Elle Mulvaney) back and attempting to steal Steve from his wife Becky McDonald (Katherine Kelly) and failing; resulting in them both having a feud. Tracy also sparked a feud with Tina McIntyre (Michelle Keegan), which worsened after it transpired that Tina had kissed Rob Donovan (Marc Baylis). Rob would later murder Tina and after discovering this, Tracy and Rob's sister, Carla Connor (Alison King), turned him in and he was arrested, sparking a feud between Tracy and Carla. Tracy's former husband Robert Preston (Tristan Gemmill) also returned, with Tracy going on to briefly reunite with him. She has since remarried Steve and had a fling with Paula Martin (Stirling Gallacher).\n\nTracy Lynette Langton is the daughter of Ray (Neville Buswell) and Deirdre Langton (Anne Kirkbride), born in 24 January 1977. Ray leaves when Tracy is a baby and she is raised by Deirdre and her husband, Ken Barlow (William Roache), who adopts her.\n\nKen and Deirdre separate in December 1989 when Ken has an affair with Wendy Crozier (Roberta Kerr), his secretary at the Weatherfield Recorder. Initially, Tracy supports Deirdre, but above all else, Tracy wants a return to family life. Once Ken sees the error of his ways and begins seeking a reconciliation, in opposition to Deirdre who wants a divorce, Tracy's allegiance shifts to Ken. Deirdre is subjected to further resentment when she takes up with Dave Barton (David Beckett), who rescues Tracy when she accidentally sets the kitchen on fire. The divorce even affects Tracy's school life as Ken gets a teaching job there in 1990, as he can stay updated on Deirdre's exploits through Tracy. Caught between Ken and Deirdre, Tracy starts to rebel by playing truant from school, going instead to the amusement arcade with twin brothers Steve (Simon Gregson) and Andy McDonald (Nicholas Cochrane). 1991 also sees Tracy get her first boyfriend, Graham Egerton (Paul Aspden), but it does not last long and they end their relationship.\n\nTracy meets Robert Preston (Julian Kay), and they decide to marry in 1996. They intend to marry in London, where they are living but on telling Ken and Deirdre the news, Tracy decides to marry in Weatherfield instead, on the cheap; she books the Register Office immediately and buys a £14 wedding dress from a charity shop. The wedding is a success and Robert and Tracy return to London. Tracy visits Weatherfield three times over the next few years: she comes to Deirdre and her fiancé, Jon Lindsay's (Owen Aaronovitch) engagement party in 1997 and approves of Jon (who is really a confidence man), and then in 1999, she seeks refuge in Weatherfield after falling out with Robert, who accused Tracy of having an affair with her friend after he saw them kissing. Robert follows Tracy to Weatherfield and they reconcile when he accepts her story that she and Dan are just friends. Tracy is delighted when Ken and Deirdre finally reconcile.\n\nTracy returns on Christmas Day 2002, claiming that Robert has cheated on her but it emerges that she was sleeping with Robert's best friend; so she and Robert divorce. Tracy has a brief fling with Dev Alahan (Jimmi Harkishin) but when she realises Dev thinks she is not \"marriage material\", she dumps him before cutting up his suits and stealing his credit card.\n\nIn August 2003, Tracy places a bet with Bev Unwin (Susie Blake) that she can sleep with married Roy Cropper (David Neilson). She spikes his drink and then claims they slept together when he wakes up in her bed the next morning. Roy is racked with guilt and his wife Hayley Cropper (Julie Hesmondhalgh) is heartbroken and when Tracy discovers she is pregnant, she threatens to have an abortion unless Roy and Hayley buy the baby for £15,000. With Hayley being a transwoman, they agree, much to the disgust of the Barlow family. Roy and Hayley worry Tracy will flee with their money and the baby so Roy marries Tracy to gain legal rights to the baby. In February 2004, after delivering her daughter, whom Roy and Hayley name Patience, Tracy wants her daughter back and admits at Steve and Karen Phillips' (Suranne Jones) wedding that Steve is her daughter's biological father, not Roy and she lied about them having sex. Not surprisingly, this causes a feud between her and Karen but Roy is persuaded by Ken to return Tracy's daughter, whom she renames Amy (Holly Bowyer and Rebecca Pike). \nTracy taunts Karen when she does not get pregnant as quickly as Tracy did, calling her \"Barren\" Karen. Karen does get pregnant but miscarries soon after in December 2004. Karen struggles to cope and finds Tracy's sympathy harder to cope with than her taunting, leading her to steal and torch Tracy's car. Tracy is devastated, thinking Amy is dead because she was in the car, and angrily goes after Karen, threatening to kill her. Only Steve's insistence that Amy is safe with Roy and Hayley, makes Tracy stop and he ends his marriage to Karen, reminding her that he is grieving too and could have lost two children. Tracy watches triumphantly as Karen leaves and Steve tries to reconcile with Tracy but realises he wants Amy, not her. This leads to a bitter custody battle, with Tracy making it look as if Steve tried to kidnap Amy and even accusing him of abusing her. While Tracy wins primary custody, the judge does not believe her accusations and allows Steve visits with Amy.\n\nShort-lived flings with Ciaran McCarthy (Keith Duffy) and Nathan Harding (Ray Fearon) follow, until Tracy starts to date Charlie Stubbs (Bill Ward) in December 2005. However, Charlie has a one-night stand with his ex-girlfriend, Shelley Unwin (Sally Lindsay), ultimately resulting in her pregnancy. Though Tracy forgives Charlie, he betrays her again with Maria Sutherland (Samia Ghadie). Tracy concocts a plan for revenge, spreading lies that Charlie is abusing her while suggesting to Charlie that she is cheating. When Charlie decides to throw Tracy out, she announces her intention to kill him, which he does not believe. In January 2007, she seduces him, then hits him twice on the head with a metal ornament, taunting him as she does; she tries to convince the police that it was self-defence but fails and is charged with murder after Charlie dies. Tracy is released on bail and David Platt (Jack P. Shepherd) gives the police a statement, claiming to have witnessed the murder in return for sleeping with Tracy, which she does, desperate to avoid going to prison. He lies under oath but his evidence is dismissed by the court and, following Tracy's confession to Deirdre that the murder was planned, Deirdre is unconvincing as a witness. Consequently, Tracy is found guilty and sentenced to life imprisonment with a minimum of 15 years before parole. In financial ruin, Ken and Deirdre cannot pay for an appeal, leaving Tracy to serve her sentence, while Amy (now played by Amber Chadwick) is sent to live with Steve.\n\nIn May 2010, Tracy is allowed a day release from prison to attend Deirdre's mother Blanche Hunt's (Maggie Jones) funeral. While at the funeral she argues with Steve's wife, Becky McDonald (Katherine Kelly) when she realises that Becky is playing a mother figure to Amy (now played by Elle Mulvaney). On Christmas Eve 2010, Tracy returns to the Street. She tells the Barlows that the expert who handled the forensic evidence for her trial falsified his qualifications so she has been released on bail, pending a retrial. Tracy is found not guilty at the retrial, owing to the unreliability of forensic evidence.\n\nOn her return, Tracy begins a feud with Becky, regularly taunting her over her inability to give Steve a child. She antagonizes several residents on the street, seduces David and Nick Tilsley (Ben Price), and demands access to Amy against Steve and Becky's wishes. Just after midnight on New Year's Day 2011, Tracy is attacked on the back porch of Ken and Dierdre's home by an unseen assailant and put into a coma. Several street residents are suspects including Steve, Becky, Nick, David, and Gail Platt (Helen Worth). After waking from her coma, Tracy names Becky as her assailant, but it is revealed to be Claire Peacock (Julia Haworth). Claire turns herself into the police but when she is released on bail, flees the country with her two sons. Becky refuses to tell Tracy where Claire went, so her plans for revenge are in vain. Tracy learns that Becky stole £5,000 from the Corner Shop on the night of the tram crash to buy Max Turner from his mother Kylie (Paula Lane). She takes Amy to move in with her in exchange for her not going to social services and Steve is forced to acquiesce. As Becky and Tracy's feud intensifies, Steve and Becky's marriage disintegrates and he and Tracy begin a relationship. She becomes pregnant with twins. Steve and Becky go into business together and they meet with a hotel manager. Tracy believes they are having an affair and follows them to the hotel but is unable to find them and has a miscarriage. She confronts Becky over her and Steve but Becky insists that nothing happened. Tracy intentionally falls down the stairs in Becky's house but lies to Steve that Becky pushed her down the stairs and caused the miscarriage. Dierdre discovers Tracy's lies but Tracy insists that she loves Steve and convinces Dierdre to keep quiet. Steve and Tracy's relationship is cemented and Becky is ostracized by the street. Steve proposes to her on Christmas Day and they marry after his divorce with Becky is finalized. Becky crashes the reception at the Rovers with a copy of Tracy's medical records, proving that she lied about being pushed down the stairs and miscarrying. Furious, Steve breaks up with her but is unable to legally end the marriage until after a year or kick her out of the house as it is in both their names.\n\nTracy begins dating Rob Donovan (Marc Baylis). Rob and Tracy then buy the bookmakers' and turn it into a pawnbroker's shop. Tracy is furious when Norris Cole (Malcolm Hebden) tells her that Rob kissed Tina McIntyre (Michelle Keegan), and that his elder sister Carla Connor (Alison King) knew about it. Rob attacks Tina in her own home, leading to her running to the balcony, where the argument continues. He tries to persuade Tina not to tell Carla about her affair with Peter – unaware that Peter has told her himself – to save her feelings, and threatens her not to say anything to the police about their dealings with Tony. Tina refuses, so as Rob pushes her away, Tina loses her balance and falls from the balcony, plummeting onto the cobbles below. Rob believes that Tina is dead, so leaves her flat panic-stricken. He then hears Tina's groans and realises that she is still alive. Tina threatens to tell the police that Rob pushed her from the balcony on purpose, in an attempt to kill her. This pushes Rob over the edge, leading to him picking up a metal pipe and beating her with it. Tracy is happy that Tina has been hospitalised, as she hated her. When Tina dies, however, she is slightly more sympathetic. Rob calls her from a B&B, admits to killing Tina. He tells Tracy he is running out of money and Tracy agrees to bring some to him, which she takes out of their wedding cards. Tracy and Rob meet, she gives him the money but upon saying goodbye decides she wants to go on the run with him. They plan for her to collect their things and meet the following evening. She meets Rob and he says they have to get away quickly, but Tracy cries and tells him she is sorry. She has called the police and told them where he would be, as she realised she could not leave Amy and knew that she did not want to be in prison again. Rob is shocked and devastated, telling her she had a choice, and she could have chosen him. He is led away by police.\n\nTracy starts an affair with Tony Stewart (Terence Maynard), who is in a relationship with Steve's mother Liz McDonald (Beverley Callard) but tells Liz about it before Steve and Michelle Connor's (Kym Marsh) wedding in May 2015, in which she becomes more jealous about Carla and seeks revenge, that night Tracy sneaks into Carla's flat and tries killing her however she hears someone go to the toilet, who unbeknown to her is Amy, and leaves a candle which she lit to guide her way around the flat near a lamp and runs out causing a fire. Leanne Battersby (Jane Danson) sees the fire and breaks into the flat and manages to get Carla out before her fiancé Kal Nazir (Jimi Mistry) arrives and manages to get Leanne and Amy out before the flat explodes killing him and also Maddie Heath (Amy James-Kelly). As Tracy is nowhere to be seen everyone blames Carla for the fire, making Tracy happy.\n\nTracy is distraught when Deirdre dies. At Deirdre's funeral, Ken snaps at her after learning that Deirdre wouldn't come home as she felt ashamed of what Tracy's done. Tracy storms out and her ex-husband Robert (now played by Tristan Gemmill) follows. Back at the house, Robert and Tracy admit there are still feelings between them both and Tracy tries to seduce him. However, Ken decides to give Tracy another chance and goes round to sort things out, only to find Robert and Tracy half-dressed. Ken throws Robert out and lashes out at a guilt-stricken Tracy. Ken later argues with Tracy saying she was the reason Deirdre didn't come home. Tracy later opens her own florist and calls it \"Prestons Petals\" in a bid to win Robert back; however, she later finds out Robert slept with Carla and she threatens her. Tracy later collapses due to her kidney and is hospitalised. She is discharged from the hospital.\n\nIn March 2017, Ken is pushed down the stairs by an unknown assailant (see Who Attacked Ken?), however, the police suspect one of the Barlow family members. Tracy opens his will whilst he is in hospital and finds out that she has been left nothing by him, but unknown to her, Ken changed it and was given everything to her. In April 2017, after Luke breaks up with her due to suspicion he believes something is going on with her Tracy meets with Rob who is out of prison somehow and it becomes apparent she was with him the night Ken was pushed. In a conversation between them both, it is revealed Rob has been in contact with Tracy and that she has been helping him as he has escaped from prison after being transferred and the car he was in crashed. A few days later they have sex after Rob tells her he will move away and Tracy says she wants to live with him. In May 2017, after Tracy goes on the run with Rob taking Amy who is unaware Rob is with them, with her to a Peak District cottage, they are reported as missing people after Adam finds Tracy has taken Amy's passport and tells Steve. The next day, Amy runs away and rings Steve letting the police track down where she phoned. When she comes back from the call she walks in on Tracy and Rob kissing just before he sees the police coming up to the cottage. Tracy pleads with Amy not to tell anyone they have been with Rob and sends her with him so he can take her home before he continues his journey on the run. Tracy tells Rob she is covering for Amy, who she believes pushed Ken and they share a goodbye. When the armed police arrive she tells them it was her who pushed him and they arrest her for attempted murder. In court Rob storms in and tells Tracy and the courtroom, that it wasn't Amy who pushed Ken so she retracts her statement and pleads not guilty after Rob gives her an alibi saying she was with him the night Ken was pushed. She then meets with Rob in her cell for the last time before he is moved to solitary, and they have to say goodbye before having sex. She is released from prison a few days later. In June 2017, she later discovers Ken's son Daniel Osbourne (Rob Mallard) was the culprit who pushed Ken, and she is furious and she disowns him. Over Christmas, she rekindles her relationship with Steve. In January 2018, Tracy is left distraught when ex-boyfriend Luke Britton is murdered by Pat Phelan (Connor McIntyre).\n\nSteve proposes to Tracy and she accepts. Around the same time Tracy becomes close with Abi Franklin (Sally Carman). On the wedding day, Tracy suspects Steve of having an affair with Abi which she denies but Tracy tampers with a car Abi is meant to be fixing, as she is a mechanic. She later finds out Steve didn't sleep with Abi and asks her to be a maid of honour again. As Tracy walks down the aisle she tells Leanne, \"I’m coming for you bitch” unaware Leanne has recently slept with Steve. After marrying Steve Leanne tries to apologize for sleeping with Steve when Tracy was actually just mad at her for not letting Leanne and Steve's son Oliver Battersby wear a kilt meaning that Leanne has accidentally revealed the one night stand to Tracy. Tracy and Leanne have a fight after she punches Steve, who she tells she wants a divorce, however after getting drunk Tracy goes on her honeymoon to Morocco with him. She returns over a week later telling everyone that she has left Steve in the desert and took his passport with her. She finds out that the car she tampered with was involved in an accident which left Ryan Connor (Ryan Prescott) in a coma and Leanne badly injured as well as Cormac Truman dead as the car, Michelle's car broke down allowing Truman to get to them. Abi is blamed for not fixing the car properly and when the police want to look at Kevin Webster’s (Michael Le Vell) laptop for CCTV, Tracy steals Abi’s keys for the garage and steals the laptop.\n\nAmy later tells Tracy and Steve that she is pregnant at the age of 14 years old and when Tracy learns that the father is at the legal age of consent, she pressures Amy to have an abortion. After deep thought, Amy is adamant that she wants to keep the baby and refuses to have an abortion and so Tracy has a plan with Steve to adopt the baby and raise it as their own. However, Amy later feels emotionally neglected by Tracy and Steve and has a secret abortion with Bethany Platt (Lucy Fallon) by her side without both Tracy and Steve's knowledge. Tracy later learns about the abortion and admits to the realisation that she has neglected Amy's emotional wellbeing over the baby.\n\nTracy was created as the daughter of Deirdre (Anne Kirkbride) and Ray Langton (Neville Buswell). The first actress to play Tracy was Christabel Finch in 1977, who first appeared in the role when she was 15 days old. According to Finch in 2007, \"It was a case of being the right baby, in the right place, at the right time. The casting director came to the baby unit and picked me at random, then asked my parents if I could be in the show.\" In 2001 Finch reflected on her time in the soap, remembering that she used to share a dressing room with Anne Kirkbride who plays Tracy's mother Deirdre and one of her most prominent storyline memories is her involvement in Deirdre's affair with Mike Baldwin (Johnny Briggs): \"Because I was a kid, everyone was really friendly to me. Julie Goodyear, who played Bet Gilroy, was really lovely and a very down-to-earth person. The biggest plot I was involved in was when Deirdre had an affair with Mike Baldwin. There was a lot of shouting going on and Ken was screaming at her, 'Get out of the house!' I just thought, 'what's going on, why are they shouting?'\" Finch left the role when she was seven as her parents had opted to move to Guernsey.\nIt was two years until the producers recast Tracy. On screen during that time, Tracy's parents Ken and Deirdre would say that Tracy was either in her room upstairs or at school. Eight-year-old Holly Chamarette was given the role in 1985. At the time she reportedly commented, \"I'm thrilled. I've been watching Coronation Street for ages.\" She was chosen from more than 60 children, but left the role when she was 11 in 1988, quitting the acting profession to become a doctor.\n\nThe third actress to play the part was Dawn Acton, appearing between 1988 and 1999. Acton was 11 when she took on the role and played the character through her teenage years, in what Acton has described as Tracy's tarty phase. Acton has said that Tracy's appearances became rare in the mid 1990s, until the casting director James Bain informed her that her contract was not being renewed as \"the storylines involving Tracy had dried up\". Acton adds, \"I was 17 but I wasn't devastated. There were no tantrums, like the ones Tracy was famous for. James said I should try other things in the acting world. I did – but it didn't work out.\"\n\nIn November 2002, it was reported that Dawn Acton reauditioned for the role of Tracy but was unsuccessful which resulted in the role being given to Kate Ford. A spokeswoman for the soap said: \"[Kate] is very excited to have got the part. The character has changed substantially in the past four years and really hits the ground running. Kate is thrilled.\" Discussing why Acton was not brought back, a spokesperson said, \"We [looked] at other actresses because the character has changed so much—she's going to be explosive.\" Ford was a fan of the show as a child, and revealed that when she was 12, she wrote around ten letters to the casting director requesting a part. The character is portrayed as being extremely selfish and dangerous. She appears to be a tough, fiery and very bitchy character, with actress Kate Ford stating that \"underneath she does care about her daughter which does show a soft side to her\".\n\nOn 23 October 2002, it was reported that Tracy would be reintroduced later that year. A show spokesman says the new Tracy will be sexy, sassy and opinionated. She will make a beeline for womanising bookie Peter Barlow (Chris Gascoyne), her own stepbrother, before moving on to former sailor Ciaran McCarthy (Keith Duffy) and knicker factory boss Joe Carter (Jonathan Wrather). Tracy returns home to Weatherfield at Christmas after turning to her mother, Deirdre Barlow (Anne Kirkbride), when her marriage breaks down - she left the Street after marrying Robert Preston (Julian Kay) at Weatherfield Register Office. The character was last played by Dawn Acton. A \"Coronation Street\" spokesman said: \"We are looking at other actresses because the character has changed so much - she's going to be explosive.\"\n\nExplaining the decision to bring Tracy back as an antagonist, writer Daran Little commented: \"You only have to look at a character whose parents got divorced when she was very young and then pulled either way to find out this woman is very flawed and has a chip on her shoulder. So you take that and bring her back a few years later as a very selfish person.\"\n\nOn 13 November 2002, it was announced that Kate Ford had been cast as Tracy. It was reported that Acton was said to be \"devastated\" when she failed to win the part, which instead went to Ford. But whereas Tracy Barlow was a glum-faced teenager, Tracy Preston - as she is now called - is a sexy, sassy and opinionated man-eater. At the same time it was also reported that Tracy would sleep with her mother's former flame Dev Alahan (Jimmi Harkishin). A \"Coronation Street\" spokeswoman said Ford, fresh from London's Webber Douglas Academy but originally from north Lancashire, was \"thrilled\" to have landed the role. \"She is very excited to have got the part. The character has changed substantially in the past four years and really hits the ground running. Kate is thrilled.\"\n\nTracy returned on-screen on 25 December 2002, and she spent no time moping over her failed marriage. \"She's been bored in London and she's ready to let her hair down and have some fun. Tracy's a strong, feisty woman and I think at last Dev may have met his match.\"\n\nA storyline involving Tracy in 2003 saw her have a one-night stand with Steve McDonald (Simon Gregson) and wanted to take things further but Steve got back together with his wife Karen (Suranne Jones) instead. In need of an ego boost, Tracy bet Bev Unwin (Susie Blake) 1p that she could bed Roy Cropper (David Neilson), to prove that she could have any man she wanted. Tracy won the bet by subterfuge - drugging Roy. A few weeks later Tracy found out she was pregnant and booked an abortion. Her original intent was to keep quiet but, when confronted by a furious Hayley Cropper (Julie Hesmondhalgh), Tracy blurted out that she was pregnant with Roy's baby. As Roy and Hayley couldn't have children and longed for one, Tracy suggested that they adopt her baby for £20,000. The Croppers agreed but tried to persuade Tracy to marry Roy to guarantee his parental rights. Faced with a legal bill from her divorce from Robert, Tracy agreed, marrying Roy with Hayley and Ciaran as their witnesses. The conclusion of the storyline saw Tracy give birth to baby daughter Amy in February 2004, who was revealed to be Steve's child and not Roy's, leaving Tracy to later go on to have a fight with Steve's wife Karen.\n\nIn 2005, Ford made the decision to leave the serial, but after being promised more \"juicier storylines\", she decided to stay. In January 2006, it was reported by the \"News of the World\", that Ford had again insisted that she will bow out next year when her contract expires. A \"Coronation Street\" spokesman told \"Digital Spy\": \"Kate is contracted until next Spring so she's with us for the foreseeable future.\" Bill Ward who plays Charlie Stubbs, the boyfriend of Tracy announced his departure from the serial in June 2006, an \"ITV\" spokesperson commented: \"Contrary to press reports Bill’s decision to leave is not linked to the future of the character of Tracy Barlow. Actress Kate Ford is contracted to \"Coronation Street\" until March 2007.\" After months of speculation, Ford announced in August 2006 that she is to quit the show next year. Talking of her decision to leave, she told \"The Sun\": \"It has been the best time of my life, playing Tracy Barlow. I cannot wait to see what the writers have got in store for her.\" Producer Steve Frost confirmed that Tracy would not be killed off in her exit. \"Kate will be involved in a major storyline which will see her leave next spring,\" he said. \"Kate is a great asset. Her character Tracy has left the cobbles before and we hope she’ll return one day.\"\n\nIt was announced that Tracy would kill Charlie as part of Ford and Ward's leaving storylines which saw Tracy sentenced to life imprisonment for Charlie's murder. Brian Capron, who played notorious serial killer Richard Hillman from 2001 to 2003, warned Ford and Ward that the murder plot could harm their careers due to the storyline being so high-profile. Ford promised that it's a fitting end for the Street's resident love rat. \"Charlie has had this smug attitude that he can do whatever he wants and it has just driven Tracy insane,\" she said. \"He lives by the sword and dies by the sword. I don’t think there's a man Tracy’s met who's going to get the better of her. She hates what he's turned her into and wants him to die after he continually cheated on her.\" Ward commented: \"He doesn’t believe that Tracy would actually go through with murder and thinks himself much smarter. \"Charlie has long suspected that Tracy was concocting something evil, and when she reveals her wicked plans he challenges her to go through with it. He doesn’t believe she would actually go through with it for a second, so when Tracy actually goes for him it’s a complete shock. She attacks him with such ferocity that he doesn’t stand a chance.\" The storyline saw Tracy spending weeks staging arguments, locking herself in the house, and even burning herself with an iron, in order to convince neighbour Claire Peacock (Julia Haworth) that Charlie is abusing her. Ken and Deirdre are also concerned for Tracy's well-being, but she will not leave Charlie. Tracy gives Charlie a lap dance and begins to tell him they will be together forever. While he is distracted, she hits him over the head with a heavy metal sculpture. She taunts him and then hits him again, with a fatal blow. This resulted in Charlie ending up in hospital in a coma. Tracy, meanwhile, is successfully granted bail following an intense grilling by detectives. She ignores her bail conditions and sneaks to the hospital where she leans over an unconscious Charlie urging him to hurry up and die. “When Tracy finds out that Charlie hasn’t died straight away she's terrified that he might actually wake up and tell the cops the truth,\" Ford revealed. \"She planned to kill him so knowing he's still alive puts her into a panic. She orders Deirdre to take her to the hospital where she wishes her cheating boyfriend would hurry up and die. It’s a really worrying time for Tracy as she's desperate to cover her tracks and not be charged with murder. Ford added: “As far as Tracy’s concerned Charlie was trying to kill her and that’s what she has told everybody. But if Charlie comes to and tells the truth, Tracy will almost certainly be done for attempted murder.” Charlie later ends up dying in hospital much to the relief of Tracy.\n\n\"Coronation Street\" broadcast an episode on 25 March 2007, which only featured Ford and Kirkbride who played Tracy's mother Deirdre, this was the first episode to feature only two actors since Kevin Kennedy and Sarah Lancashire who played Curly and Raquel Watts in 2000. The episode saw Tracy confess all to Deirdre. Speaking of the episode, Ford said: \"Deirdre’s been asking questions and Tracy knows she’s onto her. Also Tracy’s feeling the pressure and she needs to confide in someone after keeping it to herself for so long. It’s all too much, so when the big confrontation comes Tracy lets go and confesses to Deirdre that she murdered Charlie in cold blood. She feels like she wants to take the weight off her. For months she’s been carrying round this big secret and she needs to offload it, especially now Deirdre’s sniffing around. Also, Deirdre intimates that she would lie for her so Tracy’s quite confident that she can freely offload.\" Ford added: \"She forces her word that she won’t tell anyone and that she’ll back her in court, but Deirdre’s wavering. She’s appalled and wants Tracy to come clean, but she’s also her child, her own flesh and blood, so it’s hard to consider giving her up. Tracy expects that as her mum Deirdre will stick by her whatever. It was amazing to be able to do an entire episode just with the two of us. I love working with Anne and this was a fantastic opportunity to explore the relationship between the two of them.” Tracy's trial aired in March 2007 and the jury delivered the \"guilty\" verdict, resulting in Tracy being sentenced to life imprisonment. Ford's final episode as Tracy was broadcast on 8 April 2007.\n\nWhen asked by \"itv.com\" in 2013 whether Tracy would ever be driven to kill again, Ford replied: \"I don't think she ever wants to go back to prison, she absolutely hated it, so for that reason no. Also I think she was in such a dark place when she was with Charlie, I don't think she just killed him for the sake of it, she'd gone a bit mental because he was playing games with her head.\"\n\nOn 5 January 2010, it was announced that Ford would reprise the role of Tracy after more than three years away. The actress attributed her return in part to the 2009 return of her friend Shobna Gulati as Sunita Alahan, and her desire to work with Gulati again. Ford believes that the time she has spent in prison has made Tracy's attitude worse, characterising her as \"a bit cagey and a bit bitter\". She stated that Tracy still loves Steve, but that his new wife Becky would beat her in a fight. Her first scenes were shown in May, when she returned for her grandmother Blanche's funeral. Ford found the scenes difficult to film, following the then recent death of Maggie Jones who played Blanche. She described Tracy as a more ruthless and extreme version of her grandmother.\nTracy returned to Weatherfield on a permanent basis later in 2010. The storyline depicting her initial return involved her being offered an early release in exchange for extracting a murder confession from Gail. She falsely accused Gail of her husband Joe McIntyre's (Reece Dinsdale) murder, by telling the police that she hit him with a rolling pin, after Gail told her that she hid a rolling pin on top of a bedroom wardrobe in order to stop poor cook Joe from baking potato pie. The police subsequently found the rolling pin hidden in the house, making Tracy's lie appear true. Tracy decided to testify in court, alleging that Gail was guilty of murdering Joe; Gail was found not guilty of murder and Tracy was furious that she might not be let out early, thus throwing a chair across the room at two police officers who were involved in Gail's case. Later that day, Tracy was attacked by Gail's fellow inmates after they threw water at her and locked her in a cell and beat her up for being a \"grass\". Tracy was hospitalised.\n\nExecutive producer Phil Collinson has revealed that Tracy's return will bring a few years' worth of storylines for her and many other characters in the soap, and that there is a possibility of Becky McDonald and Tracy appearing in a special two-hander episode. It was revealed on 4 October, that Tracy would return on Christmas Eve 2010, following her shock release from prison. Speaking to \"Inside Soap\", Ford said: \"Tracy's absolutely ecstatic to be out of prison, and excited to be home. She's a bit nervous because she knows everybody is going to hate her - but she's basically the same old Tracy!\" Ford added: \" she wants Amy back, but she'd like to be with Steve as well. She wants them to be a family. Steve is Tracy's true love, and she'd do anything to Becky if it meant she could have him.\" Speaking to \"Soaplife\" about Tracy's comeback, Simon Gregson who plays Steve McDonald explained: \"I'm really excited. Tracy's a brilliant character. You've got that lightness and then pure evil. And Kate (Ford) does such a good deadpan face. I sometimes have to struggle not to laugh. Her return is a massive shock. Steve instantly thinks, 'Oh no!' He just knows she'll be bringing him loads of flack.\" Discussing Tracy's demands for custody of Amy, Gregson continued: \"Tracy's got [Steve] over a barrel. It turns out Amy's heard Steve and Becky talking about buying Max and she's told Tracy. \"That's all the ammunition she needs. She tells Steve if she doesn't get custody she'll shop him and Becky to the authorities.\"\n\nTracy returns just as the tram crash memorial service is taking place. By the end of Christmas Eve, she has managed to alienate most of the community, particularly Gail McIntyre and the recently widowed Claire Peacock. On 30 December 2010, after Tracy has complained to Deirdre, Ken, and Peter about being deprived of sex, David Platt confronts her at home about her conduct towards his mother. After a bitter argument, Tracy seduces David. Shortly afterward, Tracy sleeps with Nick Tilsley (Ben Price); they are discovered by Leanne Battersby (Jane Danson). On New Year's Eve, Deirdre and Ken find Tracy unconscious with a head injury. Suspicion falls on Steve, who is standing nearby with blood on his hands.\n\nOn 19 May 2011, Ford revealed that the main thing driving her \"Coronation Street\" alter-ego Tracy Barlow is the desire to have a family with daughter Amy and former husband, Steve. Speaking to TV Times, Ford said that Tracy is feeling as if her meddling is starting to pay off. \"She thinks she can see a shift in Steve, and she knows that his and Becky's relationship is not on firm ground. She's excited because she thinks an opportunity might be presenting itself,\" Ford explained. \"All Tracy wants is for her, Amy and Steve to be a family. She sees that as the key to her fulfilment and happiness. She does love Amy and she's really worried about her mystery illness. When it comes down to it, she will put Amy above anything.\"\n\nIn December 2012, it was announced that an upcoming storyline would see Tracy begin a dangerous relationship with Rob Donovan (Marc Baylis), the brother of Carla Connor (Alison King). Speaking of the storyline a \"Coronation Street\" source said: \"Tracy and Rob are a match made in soap hell, They will be fiery, passionate and out to cause trouble.\" Baylis went on to say: \"Watch this space – interestingly, Tracy Barlow comes onto his radar. That is an interesting combination. Without a doubt, he sees something of himself in Tracy and finds her intriguing!\" Ford admitted: \"She [Tracy] likes the fact that he's quite feisty – it takes one to know one, after all. Maybe they're kindred spirits!\" Asked about the kind of a dynamic between Rob and Tracy, Baylis told \"Digital Spy\": \"There's a lot of joyful banter - they challenge each other in a fun way. They're quite similar, they can see those similarities and they do have a lot of fun together. They put a smile on each other's faces, and we'll just have to see how it goes from there.\" Asked if Rob can hold his own when it comes to Tracy, Baylis replied: \"\"Definitely, otherwise he wouldn't get involved. He is aware of the whole situation that happened with Ryan last year, but he's got a few more years on Ryan and he's been round the block a few times. Rob definitely wouldn't get involved in something that he didn't think he could handle. But Rob does have an arrogant side, and he feels like he could deal with anything. That's one of Rob's main flaws. I've really enjoyed working with Kate Ford on the storyline - we've had an absolute blast. We've been working a lot together, and hopefully the working relationship that we've built up behind the scenes will come across on screen. I'm looking forward to seeing that unfold myself.\" When asked how Rob first gets Tracy's attention, Ford told \"All About Soap\": \"Well, Tracy's going off shopping in town and she gets into a taxi at exactly the same time as Rob. She demands that he leave, as it's her taxi and not his. He refuses to move though, and when Steve asks them where they're going and they both say the city centre at the same time, they share a smile and end up going in the cab together. She likes the fact that he's quite feisty - it takes one to know one, after all. Maybe they're kindred spirits!\" Ford also stated that not only is Tracy attracted to Rob, she realises that it would also annoy Michelle (Kym Marsh), adding: \"If he had got out of the taxi, she probably wouldn't have fancied him. He's quite easy on the eye too, of course. Plus, he hangs round with Michelle, and if Tracy and Rob were an item, it would annoy her - that's another good reason for Tracy.\" On Tracy's reaction to being asked out by Rob, she said: \"She's quite annoyed at first and she turns him down. But he persists and he flatters her, so she thinks, why not? I think he's like a nicer version of Charlie, so maybe. He's got the bad lad streak, he's ruthless, but he's nowhere near as cruel as Charlie.\"\nTracy convinces Rob to give her a job at \"Underworld\", and when factory boss Carla has doubts over the arrangement, the Tracy promises to behave herself. However, in an interview with \"The Sun\", Ford confirmed that Tracy won't be able to resist winding up her new co-workers. Ford explained: \"She loves to p*** everyone off. She annoys Michelle, she annoys Eva and she likes that.\" Discussing her alter ego's nasty nature, the Ford admitted: \"She is so vile. Sometimes when she is being really horrid, I ask everyone, 'Why is Tracy so horrible?' and they all go, 'Because she is horrid!' It's as if she is unhappy with her own life and so she is awful to everyone else. \"But I do love playing Tracy and I am always so grateful that I have been given this role. I have such a brilliant time on set and there are never any rows because we all have such a laugh.\" Ford also insisted that Tracy does have the potential to settle down with one man. She said: \"I will leave the writers to come up with the storylines for Tracy. But I do think she could stay with anybody - so long as they let her behave a little bit badly. The reason why she stayed with Charlie [Stubbs] is because she couldn't walk all over him. But who knows what will happen with Tracy in the future?\" It was announced that Tracy will put her relationship with Rob before her own daughter as she tries to secure more commitment from him. Tracy decides that she wants to live with Rob, but she knows that he may need some convincing as he is not ready to be a stepfather to Amy. Tracy's interfering stepbrother, Peter, is responsible for planting the idea in Tracy's head, questioning why she hasn't moved in with Rob now that they have a business together. Ford told \"itv.com\": \"It definitely strikes a nerve when Peter says that Rob will never see her that way and only cares about himself. Tracy is willing to do anything to move in with Rob, even if it means palming Amy off on Steve and her mum more often. She knows one of the reasons Rob's reluctant to move in with her is because he fears he won't be a good stepdad to Amy, and that's not really the life he wants right now. So to solve this problem, she persuades Steve to have Amy four nights a week and Deirdre the other three.\" Ford added: \"Tracy is very good at twisting people round her finger. Rob's got everything she wants in a man - he's ambitious and driven, he shares her ruthless streak.\"\n\nA twist in Tracy and Rob's relationship storyline happened when Rob later went to kiss Tina McIntyre (Michelle Keegan). Asked why they end up kissing each other, Baylis replied: \"They're playing games with each other. The thing with Rob is that he can't resist a challenge. He'll always rise to the bait, and Tina challenges him. They're both pushing each other while they are flirting and it's all about game playing. That's how it happens.\" Tracy later finds out about their kiss and is furious, beginning a feud with her and Tina; which would later build up to the departure of Keegan and the murder of Tina for which Tracey was a suspect. Kate Ford, said: \"Tracy has committed murder before and got away with it and she certainly takes no prisoners when it comes to getting revenge on people who have wronged her. She has never really forgiven Tina for kissing Rob and trying to take him off her - and for her campaign to try and close down Barlow's Buys when they first opened. Now that she knows Tina has rumbled their dodgy dealings with Tony Stewart (Terence Maynard), it may be that she thinks enough is enough and slips away from her engagement party to confront her - but Tina is every bit as feisty and Tracy might have bitten off more than she can chew trying to keep her quiet.\" It was later revealed that it wasn't Tracy who killed Tina and in fact it was Rob who killed her. As the storyline concluded Rob was sent to prison leaving Tracy relieved.\n\nIn December 2014, it was revealed that Tracy was to have an affair with Tony Stewart (Terence Maynard) who is in a relationship with Liz McDonald (Beverley Callard). Maynard explained: \"Tracy is at her lowest ebb. She's broken and she needs validating in some way by a man. She's realized that she's all alone and that she's not going to have a relationship with Rob as he's locked up for life. she thinks that she'll be older and nobody will be interested in her. Tony tells Tracy what she wants to hear, because he does feel for her. He tells her that she looks good, that there are loads of men that would want her. That's when Tracy turns to him and asks him if he'd go there with her. Tony refuses to answer and tells her he's with Liz and that he can't answer that question. Tony makes a point of telling Tracy he's happy with Liz and he puts his cards on the table. But Tracy still comes on strong because she needs this - this is something she needs to stabilise her. If she had a good friend that she could cry to and could go to, this might not be happening - but she needs a sexual validation, so it becomes about power.\" Asked whether Tony pulls back when Tracy first tries to kiss him, Maynard replied: \"He tries to. When she starts kissing him, he is completely disengaged and tries to turn away from her. But there's no doubt about it that there's an attraction to Tracy and he can't deny it. With her coming on so strong, he can't help himself. I think he likes how much of a challenge she's becoming too. He feels lousy afterwards. I think he has concern for what will happen now and for what will happen with Liz. He hopes that's the end of it and that it won't spill out into the public domain. He genuinely loves Liz and he hasn't felt like this about a woman for a very long time so he doesn't want to lose it. He wants to just forget it and move on but it's evident that Tracy isn't going to let it go. From Tony's point of view it's about managing her and playing the game - he wants the business and that's still all he wants.\" Writers confirmed that the pair's romantic spark wouldn't be just be a one-off, so Tony's attraction to Tracy could grow as time goes on. Maynard added: \"He's not in love with her and they're not the same sort of feelings that he has for Liz, but I think he considers Tracy to be a friend of his and I think the feelings he does have for her could well grow.\" Ford said that Tracy could have met her match in Tony after he sets her up. Tracy agrees to go into business with Tony when he masterminds a situation that leaves her shaken, forcing her to reconsider her options. Tracy is left feeling threatened by a supplier after buying some dodgy stock, only to be rescued by Tony, who is hoping to finally get his hands on the business. Ford said: \"When it all goes wrong she's terrified. When he turns violent, she realises it could have gone massively wrong if Tony hadn't come in. She is quite good at protecting herself - she's been in prison so she can handle herself, but she is shaken.\" However, although Tracy believes she can keep Tony at arm's length once they become business partners, Ford thinks her alter ego could have her work cut out. She said: \"Tracy can kind of see through Tony. She is a big girl and she can look after herself. It's more about the money and the fact that she can't cope without him financially. She doesn't think of Tony as her saviour, it's all about the money. Tracy can be pretty ruthless herself so maybe she'll have to play Tony at his own game. I think she's going to have her work cut out though this time.\" Liz later finds out about the affair when Tracy breaks the news to her on the day of Steve and Michelle's wedding. Callard commented: \"At first Liz doesn't quite believe it. She's not concerned about the dodgy things that Tracy and Tony might get up to at Barlow's Buys, but she doesn't believe Tony would do anything else. Tracy then starts to show her texts which prove they've been having an affair. Liz still doesn't quite believe it, but she soon starts to realise there could be some truth to it. Tracy also tells Liz that they've been trying to get The Rovers from underneath her as well. That just puts the lid on it for Liz, but the one thing she's thinking is that she can't let it ruin the wedding day for Steve and Michelle.\"\n\nOn 9 May 2015, it was announced that Tristan Gemmill had been cast as Tracy's ex Robert Preston. Robert (then played by Julian Kay) had previously been married to Tracy when Dawn Acton was playing the role. It was announced that Robert will return to Tracy's life in the summer when he turns up unexpectedly at the funeral of her mother Deirdre (Anne Kirkbride). With Tracy grieving following her mother's sudden death and also newly-single after splitting from Tony Stewart, she quickly seeks comfort by falling back into Robert's arms. However, if Tracy harbours any hopes for a full reunion with Robert, it won't be easy for her as he is still married to his second wife - something he has neglected to tell her. Played by former \"Girls Aloud\" singer Sarah Harding, Robert's wife quickly joins him in Weatherfield to fight for her man. Asked what Robert likes about Tracy, Gemmill replied: \"\"Now there's a question! I guess some people are attracted to broken people. I've got friends who have poor relationships by anyone's standards because they keep making the same mistake. Maybe Robert is one of those people who is attracted to danger, maybe he thinks he can fix her. There's an element of thrill being with someone who's unpredictable.\"\n\nOn 16 May 2016, it was reported by the \"Metro\" that an upcoming storyline would see Tracy at \"death's door\" as her health will take a turn for the worse. It was also revealed that as she faces a fight for life, she may be doing so alone as all of her family will have turned their backs on her in the wake of her feud with Carla. With Tracy only having one kidney, she will end up with an infection. Speaking to \"Metro.co.uk\" at a recent press event, Ford explained: \"She gets an infection and the people that she thinks will be there for her aren’t and she realises she’s pushed everyone too far. There'll be a big, bad karma – even her daughter who she took for granted doesn’t want to know. Even Ken has been pushed too far – although he does go and see her at the hospital, she is his daughter after all and she is at death's door.\" Ford also hinted that the terror of the situation might make Tracy change her ways: \"It's a different Tracy post-this, for quite some time. She realises she has cut off everybody – the health issue makes being conniving quite difficult! We won't see as much of that in the future.\". In an interview with \"Digital Spy\", Ford explained why Tracy only has one kidney: \"She has only got the one kidney because when she was younger she took an ecstasy tablet in a nightclub and had organ failure. The kidney she's got is Samir Rachid's kidney\". Ford also went on to explain the storyline in more detail: \"Tracy gets an infection in her kidney, which means that she becomes very poorly as it isn't functioning properly. She's been feeling pain for a while and feeling tired but she's been taking her medication, so isn't overly worried until she suddenly doubles over in agony in the flower shop. She tries to make light of it when she's referred to the transplant clinic, claiming as soon as she's ill, the doctors always presume it's her kidney. But deep down I think she's more worried than she's letting on.\" Discussing the aftermath of Tracy's subsequent collapse, Ford confirmed: \"Well she doesn't die! I think for Tracy the only positive that comes out of it is that she hopes it will bring her and Amy back together. But Amy is quite a tough cookie and she doesn't come to the hospital to see her, even though Tracy is on her deathbed. That really affects Tracy. She's desperate to try to make amends with Amy but it doesn't seem to work. She's very lonely and very emotional when she's at the hospital. Robert visits her and she's hopeful it means they have a future together, but it's not going to be that simple. Especially with Amy, who Tracy fears she may have lost forever.\".\n\nWhen Tracy was blackmailed by David, Steven Perkins of Lowculture commented: \"It's very incredibly wrong, and yet they're both so vile that it goes right around the loop and goes back to being a thoroughly great idea.\" Fellow Lowculture contributor Nick Linsdell praised Tracy as \"one of the all-time great, completely horrific, self-absorbed soap monsters.\" He deemed her trial testament to the show's writers, as, even with a character who has been part of \"Coronation Street\" since birth: \"they've come up with an exit storyline that outdoes all her previous exploits and dragged in half the cast to enjoy the fun.\" Perkins also praised the trial storyline, commenting: \"It makes for quite a nice change to have sat through a soap trial, knowing for once that The Accused was (a) guilty as sin, (b) acting in a deliberate, calculated and premeditated fashion and (c) not trying to frame someone else.\" Alongside this unusual premise, he noted: \"there are probably quite a few people who secretly want to see That Bitch Tracy Barlow finally get hers.\"\n\n\"Radio Times\" included Tracy in their feature profiling 'bunny boilers' of soap opera. Discussing her they stated: \"Qualifying as much as a soap villain as a bunny-boiler, grown-up Tracy in her final incarnation displayed enough deranged behaviour to have Flopsy, Mopsy and Cottontail bounding for the hills.\" Opining on her temper they added: \"Tracy was capable of a rage so hot that, by comparison, the fires of hell were chilly.\" They also offered their opinion on what could have made her this way, blaming Ken's and Deirdre's behaviour. The character has been dubbed by the media and viewers as, \"Toxic Tracy\".\n\nA reporter writing for the \"Inside Soap Yearbook 2017\" named Tracy and Carla's feud as one of the \"best bits of February\", describing the pair as \"sworn enemies\". They described Tracy confronting Carla as \"the big moment\" in the episodes.\n\nIn February 2011, Ford was nominated for Best Comeback in the Soap Bubble Awards for her portrayal of Tracy. Tracy was nominated in the category of \"Villain of the Year\" at the 2011 Inside Soap Awards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279676", "title": "Simultaneous death", "text": "Simultaneous death\n\nSimultaneous death is a problem of inheritance which occurs when two people (sometimes referred to as commorientes) die at, or very near, the same time, and at least one of them is entitled to part or all of the other's estate on their death. This is usually the result of an un-natural death occurring from events such as an accident, a homicide, or a murder-suicide.\n\nUnder the common law, if there was any evidence whatsoever that one party had survived the other, even by a few moments, then the estates would be distributed in that order. However, the decedents could write (or have written) a clause in the will that requires their property to be distributed as though each had predeceased the other.\n\nSome wills now include \"Titanic clauses\" (named for the RMS \"Titanic\", which caused many simultaneous deaths among testators and executors). These clauses lay out explicit instructions for dealing with simultaneous death.\n\nIn order to alleviate problems of proving simultaneous death, many states in the United States have enacted the Uniform Simultaneous Death Act, which provides that each spouse will be treated as though they predeceased the other if they die within 120 hours of one another, unless a specific clause in the will deals with this particular possibility.\n\nHowever, the Act also states that the 120-hour rule is not applicable if the end result would be that the estate is intestate, and would therefore be escheated to the state.\n\nThe common law provision that, without evidence, there can be no presumption as to which of the commorientes died first, was superseded by the passage of the Law of Property Act 1925, Section 184. Under this statute, where the order of death of two persons is uncertain, the elder of the two is deemed to have died first. This can cause difficulties where for example the elder person had children prior to marriage. The rules can be ousted if inappropriate by an explicit provision in a will. \n\nWills generally have a \"survivorship clause\", typically of 30 days, so that both partner's estates are dealt with as though they were already widowed at the point of death; in cases of intestacy, the survivorship clause is set at 28 days.\n\nIt is HM Revenue and Customs's longstanding practice to apply a concessionary treatment for inheritance tax purposes in such cases which reduces the burden on surviving family members.\n"}
{"id": "2279677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279677", "title": "London Underground code alert", "text": "London Underground code alert\n\nA London Underground code alert is a warning issued by a London Underground Line Controller (who oversees the running of a line in conjunction with the signal operator) over the radio system giving both train and station staff information about a potential problem. The codes are rarely used as they are specifically reserved for emergency situations.\n"}
{"id": "2279684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279684", "title": "Guanidine", "text": "Guanidine\n\nGuanidine is the compound with the formula HNC(NH). It is a colourless solid that dissolves in polar solvents. It is a strong base that is used in the production of plastics and explosives. It is found in urine as a normal product of protein metabolism. A guanidine moiety also appears in larger organic molecules, including on the side chain of arginine.\n\nGuanidine can be thought of as a nitrogenous analogue of carbonic acid. That is, the C=O group in carbonic acid is replaced by a C=NH group, and each OH is replaced by a group. Isobutylene can be seen as the carbon analogue in much the same way. A detailed crystallographic analysis of guanidine was elucidated 148 years after its first synthesis, despite the simplicity of the molecule. In 2013, the positions of the hydrogen atoms and their displacement parameters were accurately determined using single-crystal neutron diffraction.\n\nGuanidine can be obtained from natural sources, being first isolated by Adolph Strecker via the degradation of guanine.\n\nThe compound was first synthesized in 1861 by the oxidative degradation of an aromatic natural product, guanine, isolated from Peruvian guano. The commercial route involves a two step process starting with the reaction of dicyandiamide with ammonium salts. Via the intermediacy of biguanidine, this ammonolysis step affords salts of the guanidinium cation (see below). In the second step, the salt is treated with base, such as sodium methoxide.\n\nWith a p\"K\" of 0.4, guanidine is a strong base. Most guanidine derivatives are in fact salts containing the conjugate acid.\n\nThe conjugate acid is called the guanidinium cation, (). This planar, symmetric ion consists of three amino groups each bonded to the central carbon atom with a covalent bond of order 4/3. It is a highly stable +1 cation in aqueous solution due to the efficient resonance stabilization of the charge and efficient solvation by water molecules. As a result, its p\"K\" is 13.6 meaning that guanidine is a very strong base in water; in neutral water, it exists almost exclusively as guanidinium.\n\nGuanidine can be selectively detected using sodium 1,2-naphthoquinone-4-sulfonic acid (Folin's reagent) and acidified urea.\n\nThe main salt of commercial interest is the nitrate [C()]. It is used as a propellant, for example in air bags.\n\nGuanidine exists protonated, as guanidinium, in solution at physiological pH.\n\nGuanidinium chloride (also known as guanidine hydrochloride) has chaotropic properties and is used to denature proteins. Guanidinium chloride is known to denature proteins with a linear relationship between concentration and free energy of unfolding. In aqueous solutions containing 6 M guanidinium chloride, almost all proteins lose their entire secondary structure and become randomly coiled peptide chains. Guanidinium thiocyanate is also used for its denaturing effect on various biological samples. \n\nGuanidinium chloride is used as an adjuvant in treatment of botulism, introduced in 1968, but now its role is considered controversial – because in some patients there was no improvement after the administration of this drug.\n\nGuanidinium hydroxide is the active ingredient in some non-lye hair relaxers.\n\nGuanidines are a group of organic compounds sharing a common functional group with the general structure . The central bond within this group is that of an imine, and the group is related structurally to amidines and ureas. Examples of guanidines are arginine, triazabicyclodecene, saxitoxin, and creatine.\n\nGalegine is isoamylene guanidine.\n"}
{"id": "2279685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279685", "title": "Constructionism (learning theory)", "text": "Constructionism (learning theory)\n\nConstructionist learning is when learners construct mental models to understand the world around them. Constructionism advocates student-centered, discovery learning where students use information they already know to acquire more knowledge. Students learn through participation in project-based learning where they make connections between different ideas and areas of knowledge facilitated by the teacher through coaching rather than using lectures or step-by-step guidance. Further, constructionism holds that learning can happen most effectively when people are active in making tangible objects in the real world. In this sense, constructionism is connected with experiential learning and builds on Jean Piaget's epistemological theory of constructivism.\n\nSeymour Papert defined constructionism in a proposal to the National Science Foundation titled \"Constructionism: A New Opportunity for Elementary Science Education\" as follows:\n\nThe word constructionism is a mnemonic for two aspects of the theory of science education underlying this project. From constructivist theories of psychology we take a view of learning as a reconstruction rather than as a transmission of knowledge. Then we extend the idea of manipulative materials to the idea that learning is most effective when part of an activity the learner experiences as constructing a meaningful product.\n\nSome scholars have tried to describe constructionism as a \"learning-by-making\" formula but, as Seymour Papert and Idit Harel say at the start of \"Situating Constructionism\", it should be considered \"much richer and more multifaceted, and very much deeper in its implications than could be conveyed by any such formula.\"\n\nPapert's ideas became well known through the publication of his seminal book \"\" (Basic Books, 1980). Papert described children creating programs in the Logo educational programming language. He likened their learning to living in a \"mathland\" where learning mathematical ideas is as natural as learning French while living in France.\n\nConstructionist learning involves students drawing their own conclusions through creative experimentation and the making of social objects. The constructionist teacher takes on a mediational role rather than adopting an instructional role. Teaching \"at\" students is replaced by assisting them to understand—and help one another to understand—problems in a hands-on way. The teacher's role is not to be a lecturer but a facilitator who coaches students to attaining their own goals.\n\nProblem-based learning is a constructionist method which allows students to learn about a subject by exposing them to multiple problems and asking them to construct their understanding of the subject through these problems. This kind of learning can be very effective in mathematics classes because students try to solve the problems in many different ways, stimulating their minds.\n\nThe following five strategies make problem-based learning more effective:\n\nNot only can constructionism be applied to mathematics but to the social sciences as well. For example, instead of having students memorize geography facts, a teacher could give students blank maps that show unlabeled rivers, lakes, and mountains, and then ask the students to decipher where major cities might be located without the help of books or maps. This would require students to locate these areas without using prepared resources, but their prior knowledge and reasoning ability instead.\n\nDigital storytelling is another application of constructionism to the social sciences. Students can visit institutions in the local community, to understand and document their histories, develop local maps using tools like OpenStreetMap to enrich digital maps and debate the purpose and activities of local public institutions to build an understanding of political science (civics). Digital storytelling has been used by government schools in Bengaluru to develop students understanding in the social sciences.\n\nPapert has been a huge proponent of bringing technology to classrooms, beginning with his early uses of the Logo language to teach mathematics to children. While constructionism has, due to its impetus, been primarily used in science and mathematics teaching (in the form of inquiry-based science), it is arguable that it developed in a different form in the field of media studies in which students often engage with media theory and practice simultaneously in a complementary praxis. More recently it has gained a foothold in applied linguistics in the field of second language acquisition (SLA). One such application has been the use of the popular game \"SimCity\" as a means of teaching English using constructionist techniques.\n\nBeginning in the 1980s, The LEGO Group funded research of Papert's research group at the MIT Media Laboratory, which at the time was known as the \"Epistemology and Learning Group.\" When LEGO launched its LEGO Mindstorms Robotics Invention System in 1998, which was based on the work of his group, it received permission to use the moniker \"Mindstorms\" from Seymour's 1980 book title. In The LEGO Group's LEGO Serious Play project, business people learn to express corporate issues and identity through the medium of plastic bricks.\n\nIn 2005, Papert, together with Nicholas Negroponte and Alan Kay, launched the One Laptop Per Child initiative to put constructionist learning into practice in the developing world. The aim is to provide $100 laptops to every child in the developing world.\n\nA number of programming languages have been created, wholly or in part, for educational use, to support the constructionist approach to learning. These languages are dynamically typed, and are reflective. They include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2279690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279690", "title": "Battle Tank (video game)", "text": "Battle Tank (video game)\n\nBattletank is an action video game released by Absolute Entertainment in September 1990 for the Nintendo Entertainment System. The game is similar to the Atari game \"Battlezone\", and supports one player. It was considered to be a poorly designed game, as it was intended to become a space flight game for the Commodore 64 during its development.\n\nThe player is placed inside a tank, hence the game has a first person view. The tank is equipped with a smokescreen, a missile launcher, a 150mm cannon, and a .50 caliber machine gun. The object of the game is to destroy enemy tanks and helicopters in the area. If the player fires the tank's guns for too long, they will overheat and will take time to cool down.\n"}
{"id": "2279693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279693", "title": "Rachel Douglas-Home, 27th Baroness Dacre", "text": "Rachel Douglas-Home, 27th Baroness Dacre\n\nRachel Leila Douglas-Home, 27th Baroness Dacre (née Brand, 24 October 1929 – 25 December 2012) was an English peer, daughter of Thomas Brand, 4th Viscount Hampden & 26th Baron Dacre, and his wife, Leila Emily Seely, a granddaughter of Sir Charles Seely, 1st Baronet, and a great-great granddaughter of John Russell, 6th Duke of Bedford.\n\nLady Dacre was a great-granddaughter of William Montagu Douglas Scott, 6th Duke of Buccleuch and through him a direct descendant of Charles II of England.\n\nThe ancient English barony, created by writ of summons, fell into abeyance between her and her younger surviving sister (The Hon Mrs Ogilvie Thompson) upon her father's death in 1965 and was called out of abeyance in 1970 in favour of The Hon Mrs Douglas-Home, whilst the Hampden viscountcy passed to her uncle.\n\nShe married on 26 July 1951 The Hon William Douglas-Home, 3rd son of the 13th Earl of Home, and a younger brother of the 14th Earl of Home, better known as Sir Alec Douglas-Home, former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom.\n\nLady Dacre and her husband (who d. 1992) lived in Hampshire, had four children, all of whom and their descendants are in remainder to the Dacre barony:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279698", "title": "Southside High School (Fort Smith, Arkansas)", "text": "Southside High School (Fort Smith, Arkansas)\n\nSouthside High School is a comprehensive public high school in Fort Smith, Arkansas, United States. Southside provides secondary education for students in grades 10 through 12 and is one of two public high schools in Fort Smith, the other being Northside High School, both of which are administered by the Fort Smith School District. The school is a three-time recipient of the National Blue Ribbon Schools Award of Excellence by the U.S. Department of Education (ED).\n\nThe school was opened in 1963 and has had over 15,000 graduates. Since 1966, the school has been accredited by AdvancED, formerly North Central Association Commission on Accreditation and School Improvement. Southside was ranked 625th in Newsweek's Top 1,300 High Schools in the U.S. in 2008. In 2008, Southside was the recipient of \"Best Practice School\" by Arkansas Governor Mike Beebe. For the 2007-2008 school year, Southside received the Siemen's Award for Advanced Placement exam scores. Southside was in Newsweek's Top 1,000 High Schools in America for the 2009-2010 school year.\n\nThe building originally consisted of 44 classrooms in total and was continually expanded beginning in 1968:\n\n\nThe first graduating class was the Class of 1966 with 282 graduates. In the Class of 2004, there were 417 graduates. The Class of 2018 was the largest graduating class with 518 graduates. Southside had its 10,000th graduate in the Class of 1991, its 15,000th graduate in the Class of 2003, and its 20,000th graduate in the Class of 2014. In 1963/1964 the tenth grade was the highest class, in 1964/1965 the eleventh grade was the highest class and the class of 1965/1966 became the first graduating senior \nclass.\n\nThe school flies three flags for \"Excellence in Education\" presented by previous presidents Ronald Reagan, George H. W. Bush, and Bill Clinton at ceremonies held in Washington, D.C..\n\nFort Smith Southside offers AP courses in:\n\n Southside High, we hail \n\nThe Southside High School mascot was originally the Rebels, more specifically Johnny Reb who is a fictional personification of a Confederate soldier. The mascot generated controversy along with the school's fight song, Dixie, due to Confederacy's association with slavery. In 2000, Principal Wayne Haver banned the display of the Confederate flag at school and school events; many students had taken it to be the school flag due to Johnny Reb being a Confederate soldier. Talks of replacing Johnny Reb with a mustang had circulated since the 1980s but no change was made until the summer of 2015.\n\nOn June 23, 2015, a Fort Smith School Board committee voted to ban the playing of Dixie beginning the 2015-16 school year and to replace the Rebels mascot before the 2016-17 school year.\n\nOn July 27, 2015, the Fort Smith School Board voted 7-0 to change the Rebel mascot and fight song. A committee headed by Principal Haver, including business leaders, alumni and students, helped to select a new mascot for the 2016-17 school year. Principal Haver stated that a new fight song would be implemented immediately for use at all school-related events for the 2015-16 school year. On July 30, 2015, Haver announced that a new fight song, Wabash Cannonball, was selected after he had personally listened to more than 500 potential fight songs.\n\nBeginning in the 2016-2017 school year, the mascot was changed to the Mavericks.\n\nThe Southside football teams have won seven state championships at the state's highest classification (1983, 1988, 1991, 1992, 1998, 2002, 2006). Four of those titles came under longtime Southside head coach Barry Lunney Sr., who left the school after the 2004 season for conference rival Bentonville. Jeff Williams took over the program and led Southside to their last title in his second year in 2006. In 2008 and in 2009, Southside made a surprising run to the championship game, but fell short to Bentonville in 2008 and Springdale Har-Ber in 2009.\n\nIn the early 1960s when Fort Smith High School was separated into two schools, what formed was one of the premier rivalries in Arkansas. Because the town is divided down the middle by Rogers Avenue and the fact that Southside sits on one side of Rogers and Northside on the other, the game has become known as the \"Battle of Rogers Avenue\". This game has become a huge event locally in the city of Fort Smith and the surrounding area (usually drawing around 10,000 people to the event), even elevating to the level of shutting down some local schools and businesses on the day of the game. Southside beat Northside, for the first time, in 1978 and repeated in 1979. Once 2006, including 2010's game at Southside 56-29. The game was filmed by NFL Network as part of their American Great Rivalries Program and aired on national television in January 2011.\n\nFort Smith Southside has several sports rivalries, including:\n\n\nFort Smith Southside volleyball teams have won seven state championships (4A - 1997; 5A - 1999, 2003, 2004; 7A - 2006, 2009, 2013).\n\nThe bowling teams of Southside High have been one of the state's most successful with state championships in 2008, 2009 (boys), and 2010 (girls).\n\nThe Southside track teams won three consecutive 7A class state track championships (2009, 2010, 2011). The Lady Mavericks are one of the state's most successful with 10 state track championships (1981, 1982, 1983, 1985, 1990, 1991, 1992, 1993, 1994, 1995). 2007\n\nThe school has routinely done well in education/knowledge based competitions, to include:\n\nThe following are notable people associated with Southside High School. If the person was a Southside High School student, the number in parentheses indicates the year of graduation; if the person was a faculty or staff member, that person's title and years of association are listed:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279700", "title": "Nicolas-Joseph Beaurepaire", "text": "Nicolas-Joseph Beaurepaire\n\nBorn in Coulommiers, he commanded the defense of Verdun against the invading Allied armies of the First Coalition, shortly before they were stopped at the Battle of Valmy. He chose death by suicide to avoid the dishonor of surrendering Verdun.\n\nHe was buried in the Panthéon, though his body has since disappeared.\n"}
{"id": "2279706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279706", "title": "Asterix the Legionary", "text": "Asterix the Legionary\n\nAsterix the Legionary is the tenth Asterix book in the Asterix comic book series by Rene Goscinny and Albert Uderzo. It was first published as a serial in \"Pilote\" magazine, issues 368–389, in 1966.\n\nAsterix and Obelix are setting off for a wild boar hunt when they encounter Panacea, a former childhood resident of the village who has since moved to Condatum, and Obelix immediately falls in love with her. Some hours later, Panacea receives word that her fiancé Tragicomix has been conscripted into the Roman army and shipped to North Africa; and Obelix, although heartbroken, promises to retrieve him.\n\nAsterix and Obelix travel to Condatum, where they learn that Tragicomix has already left for Massilia, the Mediterranean port from which the soldiers depart, and themselves enlist in the army to follow him, alongside Hemispheric the Goth; Selectivemploymentax the Briton; Gastronomix the Belgian; Neveratalos the Greek; and Ptenisnet, an Egyptian tourist who spends the entire book believing himself to be in a holiday camp.\n\nAfter completing basic training (and repeatedly and comically driving their instructors to the verge of tears), the newly formed unit sets off as reinforcements to Caesar against Scipio, Afranius, and King Juba I of Numidia. Asterix and Obelix soon find out that Tragicomix has gone missing in action after a skirmish, and raid Scipio's camp to recover him. This provokes the Battle of Thapsus, in which the confusion over the Gauls' unorthodox assault and the similarity of both armies' uniforms cause a default victory for Caesar after the frustrated Scipio sounds the retreat. The Gauls are cornered by Caesar after the battle is over; but released and sent home for their assistance in his victory. Asterix and Obelix thereafter celebrate at home, while Panacea and Tragicomix return to Condatum to marry.\n\n\n\n\nOn Goodreads, it had a score of 4.29 out of 5.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279707", "title": "James Tibbits Willmore", "text": "James Tibbits Willmore\n\nJames Tibbits Willmore (Birmingham September 1800 – 12 March 1863) was a British engraver who was born at Bristnal's End, Handsworth (then Staffordshire, now West Midlands), England.\nAt the age of fourteen Willmore was apprenticed to the Birmingham engraver William Radclyffe. In 1823 he went to London where he worked for Charles Heath for three years. He later worked on the plates of William Brockedon's \"Passes of the Alps\" and Turner's \"England and Wales\".\n\nHe made engravings after Chalon, Leitch, Stanfield, Landseer, Eastlake, Creswick and Ansdell, and especially after Turner. Willmore engraved thirteen pictures on copper for Turner's \"England and Wales\" series, beginning in 1828, and eight on steel for his \"Rivers of France\". He made a number of large single plates after Turner, including \"Ancient Italy\" in 1842. The next year he exhibited this print at the Royal Academy (the first he had shown there), and was elected an associate engraver of the academy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279708", "title": "7166 Kennedy", "text": "7166 Kennedy\n\n7166 Kennedy, provisional designation , is a stony Nysian asteroid from the inner regions of the asteroid belt, approximately 5 kilometers in diameter. It was discovered on 15 October 1985, by American astronomer Edward Bowell at Lowell's Anderson Mesa Station near Flagstaff, Arizona, in the United States. The asteroid was named after Malcolm Kennedy of the Astronomical Society of Glasgow.\n\n\"Kennedy\" is a member of the Nysa family (), the largest asteroid family of the main belt, consisting of stony and carbonaceous subfamilies. The family, named after 44 Nysa, is located in the inner belt near the Kirkwood gap (3:1 orbital resonance with Jupiter), a depleted zone that separates the central main belt. It is, however, a non-family asteroid from the main belt's background population when applying the hierarchical clustering method to its proper orbital elements.\n\nIt orbits the Sun in the inner main-belt at a distance of 2.1–2.8 AU once every 3 years and 9 months (1,384 days). Its orbit has an eccentricity of 0.13 and an inclination of 4° with respect to the ecliptic. The body's observation arc begins with a precovery taken at Palomar Observatory in June 1954, more than 31 years prior to its official discovery observation at Anderson Mesa.\n\n\"Kennedy\" has been characterized as a common stony S-type asteroid by PanSTARRS photometric survey.\n\nIn December 2012, a rotational lightcurve of \"Kennedy\" was obtained from photometric observations in the R-band by astronomers at the Palomar Transient Factory in California. Lightcurve analysis gave a rotation period of 3.659 hours with a brightness amplitude of 0.52 magnitude ().\n\nAccording to the survey carried out by the NEOWISE mission of NASA's Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer, \"Kennedy\" measures 5.129 kilometers in diameter and its surface has an albedo of 0.267, while the \"Collaborative Asteroid Lightcurve Link\" assumes an albedo of 0.21 and calculates a diameter of 4.42 kilometers based on an absolute magnitude of 14.08.\n\nThis minor planet was named in memory of Malcolm Kennedy (1944–1997), secretary of the Astronomical Society of Glasgow. He was born and raised in New Zealand and became a civil engineer in Scotland. The official naming citation was published by the Minor Planet Center on 8 August 1998 ().\n\n"}
{"id": "2279709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279709", "title": "Governor-general of Norway", "text": "Governor-general of Norway\n\nThe governor-general of Norway, styled \"rigsstatholder\" in Danish or \"riksståthållare\" in Swedish, both meaning 'lieutenant of the realm' (see stadtholder), was the appointed head of the Norwegian Government in the absence of the monarch. \n\nThe successive \"Statholder\" of Norway during its union with Denmark were:\n\n!colspan=7|Office vacant<br>(1739–1750)\n!colspan=7|Office vacant<br>(8 February 1771 – 25 July 1809)\n\n\"The following describes the office of governor as it was from 1814 during the personal union with Sweden:\"\n\nThe office came into existence by the Norwegian Constitution, of 4 November 1814 where the paragraphs 12, 13 and 15 stipulated that a governor-general of Swedish or Norwegian nationality could be appointed. The governor-general resided in Christiania (today Oslo) and led the Government in the absence of the monarch, when he resided in his Swedish capital Stockholm. The Council was normally led by the governor-general, who had two votes, unless the Monarch was present, at which point he would lose his authority and merely become the first among equals, or prime minister of the Council.\n\nThe post was held by Swedish appointees from 1814 until 1829, when it was vacated by natural causes. Protests left the position empty until 1836, when it was filled by a Norwegian appointee. He was succeeded in 1841 but the successor Severin Løvenskiold laid down his office in 1856, after which it would not be reinstated. The demand to abandon the office completely was ultimately granted in 1873 by King Oscar II.\n\n\nFrom 1829 to 1836, the office was vacant.\n\n\nFrom 1840 to 1841, the office was vacant.\n\n\nFrom 1856 to 1873, the office was vacant, then it was abolished.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279711", "title": "Creamed corn", "text": "Creamed corn\n\nCreamed corn (which is also known by other names, such as cream-style corn) is a type of creamed food made by combining pieces of whole sweetcorn with a soup of milky residue from pulped corn kernels scraped from the cob. Originating in Native American cuisine, it is now most commonly eaten in the Midwestern and Southern United States. It is an almost soupy version of sweetcorn, but unlike other preparations of sweetcorn, creamed corn is partially puréed, releasing the liquid contents of the kernels.\nThe dish does not usually contain any cream, but some homemade versions may include milk or cream. Sugar and starch may also be added. Store-bought canned preparations may contain tapioca starch as a thickener.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279714", "title": "Becoming Madame Mao", "text": "Becoming Madame Mao\n\nBecoming Madame Mao is a historical novel by Anchee Min detailing the life of Jiang Qing. She became Madame Mao after her marriage to Mao Zedong. In this story Min tries to cast a sympathetic light on one of the most controversial political figures in the People's Republic of China.\n\nMadame Mao is born to a very poor family around 1910 (early enough to have had her feet bound although due to a severe infection the bindings were taken off). She has an abusive father who kicks her and her concubine mother out of the house at an early age. Her mother ends up as a concubine and servant and the young 'Madame Mao' runs away to her grandparents. Anchee Min, the author, seems to attribute a lot of Madame Mao's later actions to her childhood—and that a lot of her incessant claims to power actually come from a need to be desired and to feel close to Mao rather than a deep need for power herself. Madame Mao's dream is to become an actress but she only achieves mediocre success. Using the stage name Lan Ping, she spends a few years in Shandong province (where she becomes a Communist due to a lover of hers) and then Shanghai. In Shanghai she had some success in playing Nora in Henrik Ibsen's \"A Doll's House\", and the author clearly parallels Nora's strength and inability to be controlled with Lan Ping's strong personality and need to be in control and the center of attention. The play is closed down since it is perceived to be too subversive by the authorities. She even ends up in prison for a short time but is released after signing a document denouncing Communism. After what seems like a string of rejections as well as a few serious lovers and two husbands, she travels to Yan'an, Mao's revolutionary base, to become part of his movement. The book does not offer much explanation for the switch from actress to countryside revolutionary except that she certainly had been involved in revolutionary elements (anti-Japanese plays, etc.) and that with the absence of work as an actress she did not have many options. Also, joining the Communist revolution seemed to be a common choice for young discontented students and others in their 20s.\n\nIn Yan'an, she soon meets Mao as the leading actress in patriotic plays. They meet frequently and finally become lovers. Mao is still married to his second wife He Zizhen (his first died as a revolutionary), who is in Russia and mentally unstable, but by the time she returns to China, Mao and Lan Ping have married and she is put in a mental hospital. The Communist Party is very much against Mao's affair with Lan Ping, in large part because they have worked hard to build up the image of his second wife as a martyr for the cause and do not want Mao's image to be tarnished in any way as an adulterer. The Party is supposed to emphasize discipline and unity. The affair continues despite (or perhaps is enhanced because of) these odds and the disapproval of many Communists. Finally, Lan becomes pregnant and Mao is allowed to divorce He Zizhen and marry her, under the condition that she stay out of the public eye and is not involved in politics at all. Her name is changed to Jiang Qing.\n\nDuring the years before Communists gain full control of mainland China, the relationship seems to go well, although the passion is reduced. Jiang follows Mao everywhere, even to the field, and becomes his secretary when he is sick.\n\nHowever, things change once the Communists triumph. They move to the Forbidden City in Beijing and live in separate quarters. Mao begins to lead a totally separate life with lots of traveling and entertaining. As she is not allowed by the party to be in the public eye, she is not a part of all of this. She becomes very lonely and depressed. Mao has many affairs, especially bringing young virgins in from the countryside for his pleasure. Things last in this way for 17 years with the majority of Chinese people not even able to name the wife of the great Chairman.\n\nHowever, Jiang Qing has never lost her ambition to be powerful and loved and noticed. She sees a glimmer of opportunity at Mao's low point—two years after the launch of the Great Leap Forward which proved disastrous. She begins slowly to reemerge from the shadows and spends some time in Shanghai building up a network of actors and producers (her great passion is still opera and theater). Finally, she approaches Mao to reveal that a current popular play is actually subversive against the emperor. She feeds on his paranoia that those closest to him are actually plotting against him. He gives her some permission to carry on her activities and develop some propagandist plays that exalt him. Slowly she builds up her own friends and aides who can be trusted. Finally, in 1966 she is actually allowed to make an important speech and helps Mao develop the concepts behind the Cultural Revolution. Eventually, Mao puts her in charge of the 'ideology side of the business' and she wields an enormous amount of power.\n\nMadame Mao, as she is now called, organizes festivals for revolutionary plays and begins to work closely with the student movements which have always been so important in China. She organizes and speaks to rallies of thousands of people to help launch the Cultural Revolution. Finally, Mao and Jiang decide to launch a student-led army called the Red Guards that she would be in charge of. The Red Guards end up having more power than the official military for a number of years and wreak havoc throughout the country. Her relationship with Mao is no longer romantic in the least but is mutually beneficial: 'For him, it is the security of his empire that she aids and for her, the role of a heroine. In retrospect she not only has broken the Party's restriction, she runs the nation's psyche. She is gripped by the vision that she might eventually carry on Mao's business and rule China after his death.\n\nAs Madame Mao's power grows, so does her worry about Mao and his constantly changing allegiances and worries about betrayals. He emphasizes that the public only trusts her because he is backing her. His dementia and paranoia grows as he ages. At one point Mao invites a bunch of the 'old boy's over for a meeting without inviting her. She says: ' I should have known that my husband was doing the two-faced trick. I should have understood that although Mao had been promoting me, my new power unnerves him and he needs to have another force to balance the game.'\n\nIn Mao's final months, Madame Mao is desperate for him to name her as his successor or at the very least to give a definitive statement that she represents him. She desperately wants his power after his death but if that's not possible at the very least she needs protection from all the party members who are ready to attack her. She sends investigators to extract forced confessions from her enemies and becomes increasingly paranoid and power-obsessed herself. She forms a power circle called the Gang of Four with herself as the leader, Zhang Chunqiao (whom she found in Shanghai and gave him lots of power), Wang Hongwen (whom she found as a student and Mao promoted to Vice Chairman of the Communist party) and another disciple, Yao Wenyuan.\n\nIn September 1976, Mao dies at the age of 83. When Mao's will is eventually found, he has named Hua Guofeng, a provincial governor from his home province, as his successor. Madame Mao had quickly sensed that her enemies would triumph—at Mao's funeral she was barely acknowledged. A few weeks after Mao's death she is arrested.\n\nMadame Mao remains in prison from 1976 to 1991. Her daughter, Li Na, picks up what Madame Mao disliked and dropped what her mother liked or wanted her to do. Madame Mao has \"saved enough handkerchiefs and socks to make a rope.\" She commits suicide by hanging herself on May 14, 1991. She was on Death Row the whole time, although she was not executed since her captors would have preferred to extract a confession of repentance from her.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279715", "title": "Egghead Software", "text": "Egghead Software\n\nEgghead Software was a computer software retail company. It was founded by Victor Alhadeff in 1984, and grew into a chain with over 200 stores in the United States and a few in Canada. Its stores were primarily located adjacent to shopping malls. Egghead operated two distinct divisions - Retail Division and the Corporate, Government & Education (CGE) Division. Competition grew especially from big box retailers. Severe price pressures also grew in the CGE division. In May 1996 Egghead sold the CGE division to Software Spectrum of Dallas, Texas. Reported proceeds of the sales vary from $45 million to $90 million and the associated revenue was documented at between $362 million to $440 million. The SEC filing regarding discontinued operations had this to say about the transaction, \"The Company has also historically served corporate, government, and education customers through its corporate, government, and education (CGE) division. On May 13, 1996, the Company sold the CGE Division to Software Spectrum, Inc. (SSI) a Texas corporation, for $45.0 million in cash which\ndid not include the CGE division's receivables and inventory that Egghead is liquidating in an orderly manner.\"\n\nFaced with declining revenues, in 1998, the company shifted its focus to online business, closing its retail locations and selling entirely through its Egghead.com website. Egghead.com merged with online auctioneer OnSale.com in 2000 and assumed the name Egghead.com.\n\nEgghead was hurt by a December 2000 revelation that hackers had accessed its systems and potentially compromised customer credit card data. The company filed for bankruptcy in August 2001. After a deal to sell the company to Fry's Electronics for $10 million fell through, its assets were acquired by Amazon.com for $6.1 million.\n\nEgghead was successful from the early days, expanding from a single store in Bellevue, Washington, to a 200-store chain, with locations primarily on the West Coast. A 1989 newspaper promotion in the Los Angeles area announcing the grand opening of the Pasadena, California, store offered a coupon offering customers a free 5¼\" 360k floppy disk for showing up—at the time an unprecedented offer. Customers were lined up out the doors and down the block, an indication of the insatiable desire for software in the booming personal computer market.\n\nEarly on, the company focused on repeat business, customer service, and sales integrity. Egghead easily became the premier retail vendor of software and peripherals in the United States. The company sold more Microsoft product than any other U.S. vendor for a number of years and enjoyed distinctly favorable pricing as a result.\n\nAmong other things, Egghead's customers could sign up for a \"CUE\" card (for \"Customer Updates and 'Eggs'tras\") that would guarantee a slightly reduced price on certain items, while at the same time tracking user purchases.\n\nSeveral years into the business expansion, the original founder, Victor Alhadeff, went into semi-retirement. The board brought in George Orban as CEO, a man with retail experience in building the businesses of Ross Stores, Devon Stores, and Office Mart. George Orban was chairman of the board as well as a major stockholder. After a huge run up in Internet stocks (1997–1999), and facing declining margins from increased manufacturer pricing as well as increased competition from so-called \"superstores\", Orban closed all 250 of its loss-generating retail stores to focus entirely on its small, but profitable and growing, web business in January 1998. The decision to close all retail stores was unprecedented, but bolstered by market research and a belief that web sales represented the future.\n\nEven as its retail outlets closed, Egghead expanded its online offerings with the purchase of Surplus Direct. In response, Onsale.com, a struggling online auctioneer, merged with Egghead to form Egghead.com in 2000. Onsale CEO Jeff Sheahan and president Jerry Kaplan assumed the same roles for the merged company, and Orban was named chairman of the board. Kaplan later became co-chairman.\n\nIn December 2000, the company's IIS-based servers were compromised, potentially releasing credit card data of over 3.6 million people. In addition to poor timing near the Christmas season, the handling of the breach by publicly denying that there was a problem, then notifying Visa, who in turn notified banks, who notified consumers, caused the breach to escalate into a full blown scandal.\n\nAlthough Egghead had more PC software sales experience than almost any other retailer, having been in business with outlets across the nation since PCs became popular in the mid-1980s, and having pioneered Internet software and hardware sales, they were nevertheless out-resourced and surpassed by the publicly traded giant Amazon.com. Sales were insufficient to sustain the business in the face of such a multinational giant, their stock plummeted, and the company went into bankruptcy. In 2001, Amazon purchased Egghead for $6.1 million. Egghead.com now redirects to Amazon's software pages.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279728", "title": "Slayer rule", "text": "Slayer rule\n\nThe slayer rule, in the common law of inheritance, stops a person inheriting property from a person they murder (e.g., a murderer does not inherit from parents or a spouse they killed). In figuring inheritance of the decedent's estate, the slayer is treated as though they had died before the person they murdered, hence the murderer's share of the estate would pass to their issue.\n\nWhile a criminal conviction requires proof beyond a reasonable doubt, the slayer rule applies to civil law, not criminal law, so the prosecutor must only prove the murder by a preponderance of the evidence, as in a wrongful death claim. Hence, even a slayer who is acquitted of the crime of murder can lose the inheritance by the civil court running the estate.\n\nAt common law, American courts used two different theories when dealing with early slayer cases. Some courts would disinherit the slayer because of the public policy principle that a slayer should not profit from his crime (No Profit theory).\n\nIn \"Mutual Life v. Armstrong\", the first American case to consider the issue of whether a slayer could profit from his crime, the Court set forth the No Profit (the term \"No Profit\" theory is a term coined by legal scholar Adam D. Hansen in an effort to distinguish early common law cases that applied a similar outcome when dealing with slayers). public policy justification of slayer statutes saying: \"It would be a reproach to the jurisprudence of the country if one could recover insurance money payable on the death of the party whose life he had feloniously taken.\"\n\nOther courts were reluctant to disinherit a slayer in absence of a legislatively codified statute directing the court to do so (Strict Construction theory).\n\nThe Strict Construction theory (the term \"Strict Construction\" theory is a term coined by legal scholar Adam D. Hansen in an effort to distinguish early common law cases that dealt applied a similar outcome when disinheriting slayers). originated from Judge John Clinton Gray's dissent in \"Riggs v. Palmer\". Judge Gray argued that the criminal law already established punishment for slayers. A court denying the estate to a slayer was to, in effect, add significant further punishment to what a slayer received under the criminal statute. Judge Gray argued that this was not something the court was permitted to do without an express, written statute. In Judge Gray's opinion, the court could not simply create or imagine such statutes so as to obtain a morally pleasing result.\n\nSlayer statutes codify the public policy principle that a murderer cannot profit from his crime. Slayer statutes provide a right of civil action to a victim's successors for the purpose of directing the victim's testate/intestate property away from the slayer. Such an action is brought by a successor, or other party of interest (e.g., life insurance company, bank), on behalf of the victim's estate. The slayer statute applies to both real and personal property that would have been acquired by intestacy or by will.\n\nIn 1936, legal scholar John W. Wade proposed a No Profit theory statutory fix to promote uniformity amongst the states in dealing with slayer cases. In 1969, the Uniform Law Commission included No Profit theory language in its first promulgation of the Uniform Probate Code (UPC). Forty-eight states have enacted laws that strip a slayer of any inheritance benefit he would have gained from his unlawful act.\n\nIn the United States, most jurisdictions have enacted a slayer statute, which codifies the rule and supplies additional conditions. Such laws have sometimes been construed narrowly because the relevant statutes are criminal in nature, and serve to take away someone's rights that are otherwise afforded by law. Interpreted this way, a slayer statute will not prevent the killer from acquiring title to the property by other means. In jurisdictions with a common law slayer rule, a slayer statute may serve to extend and supplement the common law rule, rather than limiting it. For example, where the statute requires the heir to have been convicted to bar inheritance, a common law slayer rule that does not have this requirement may still serve to bar inheritance.\n\nIn 2012, the Arizona legislature amended Arizona's slayer rule to include the lesser crime of manslaughter in an effort to subject more killers to civil disinheritance. Prior to the 2012 amendment, only killers found guilty of homicide in the first or second degree would be disinherited under Arizona's slayer rule. Several specific cases (e.g., Grace Pianka; Douglas Grant; and Gilbert Ramos) prompted the Arizona legislature to amend Arizona's slayer rule by 1) expressly defining “intentional and felonious” to mean any individual who is found guilty of murder in the first or second degree, or the lesser crime of manslaughter; 2) allowing victims to place the decedent's estate in constructive trust immediately from the time of the killing; and 3) allowing the victims to place the slayer's estate (i.e., life insurance benefits) in constructive trust, in the case of murder-suicide. Arizona now touts its slayer rule as the strongest in the nation.\n\nThe Maryland slayer rule is harsher than most other states. In addition to prohibiting murderers from inheriting from their victims, Maryland's slayer rule prohibits anyone else from inheriting from murder victims through their murderers; Maryland's slayer rule is thus similar in structure to corruption of blood.\n\nFor example, a mother leaves her son $50,000, and leaves her son's child (her grandchild) $100,000. She leaves her residuary estate (i.e., whatever else is left of the estate) to her daughter. If the son kills his mother, then under Maryland law, the son's child will inherit the $100,000; however the son's $50,000 (which is also the indirect inheritance of the grandchild through his father), is not available under Maryland law to either the son, or his child. The $50,000 becomes part of the mother's residuary estate and goes to the daughter.\n\nTexas law states \"No conviction shall work corruption of blood or forfeiture of estate.\" However, if a beneficiary of a life insurance policy or contract is convicted and sentenced (including accomplices) in wilfully bringing about the death of the insured, proceeds are then paid in accordance with the Texas Insurance Code.\n\nA similar principle in the United Kingdom is governed by the Forfeiture Act 1982.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279732", "title": "Donovan Patton", "text": "Donovan Patton\n\nDonovan Patton (born March 1, 1978) is an American actor, voice actor, host and singer. Patton graduated from the Interlochen Arts Academy and acted in Shakespeare plays such as \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and \"Romeo and Juliet\" before he replaced Steve Burns as Joe, the second host of Nickelodeon's long-running children's television program, \"Blue's Clues\" in 2002. Series co-creator Angela Santomero stated that Patton brought Joe, his character, closer to the preschool viewer, as Joe was more willing to \"jump into a problem rather than figure it out first like Steve.\" After \"Blue's Clues\" ended Patton voiced Bot on Nickelodeon's \"Team Umizoomi\".\n\nAlthough most of his career has been in children's television, Patton has also appeared in independent films, such as \"Awake\" and \"Lies I Told My Little Sister\", and in television shows, such as \"Blue Bloods\", \"Nurse Jackie\" and \"Damages\".\n\nHe also appeared in video games, such as \"Grand Theft Auto V\", \"Lego Jurassic World\", \"\" and \"\".\n\nPatton was born on a U.S. Military base in Guam to Michael Patton (born 1951), an Air Force meteorologist and Darlene Curtis (born 1952), who worked for the Leukemia and Lymphoma Society. He has an older brother, Casey. After his parents divorced when he was 3, he, his brother, and their mother moved to Colorado. They moved to Las Vegas when Donovan was 12. Patton graduated from the Interlochen Arts Academy in northwest Michigan in 1996, having transferred there his junior year. \n\nHis first acting roles were in Shakespeare plays such as \"Much Ado About Nothing\" and \"Romeo and Juliet\". Patton took acting classes in Manhattan while working odd jobs such as a book clerk and a video deliveryman.\n\nPatton's \"big break\" came in 2002, when he was cast to replace Steve Burns as Joe, the second host of the Nickelodeon children's television program \"Blue's Clues\". At the time, Patton worked as a waiter and a part-time actor in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, New York. He was up for a part in \"\" at the time, but considered the role as Joe \"a happy accident\". Patton became a \"household name\" and has been called \"an unqualified star to the 5-and-under set and their parents\". He was subjected to \"the same kind of scrutiny\" as Burns, who was involved in Patton's selection and helped train him, to earn the role. Patton was selected out of 1,500 auditions. He had never seen the show before his audition, but like Burns was the favorite with preschool test audiences. He said, \"I am convinced that I got that part because of a Christopher Walken impression I sometimes do. There's a tape out there, somewhere, with both Steve Burns and myself doing a \"Blue's Clues\" scene both as Christopher Walken, which we did at the screen test. I haven't seen the tape, but I know somewhere it still exists\". Burns trained Patton to take over the host spot and advised him not to \"think of [the show] as children's TV\", but rather as \"acting and telling the truth\".\n\nAccording to Traci Paige Johnson, one of the producers and creators of \"Blue's Clues\", Patton's character was more like a preschooler and more innocent than Steve. Angela Santomero, another producer and creator, stated that Patton's characterization as Joe brought him closer to the preschool viewer as Joe was more willing to \"jump into a problem rather than figure it out first like Steve\". Patton liked working on \"Blue's Clues\" because, as he stated, \"I got to go be a kid for twelve hours a day\". He called the show's crew \"a real fun little family\" and a \"well-oiled machine\" by the time he joined the show. Patton remained on the show for 50 episodes, until it ended its run in 2006, and also appeared in its spin-off, \"Blue's Room\", which premiered in 2004. Several years later, Patton said he had not yet grasped the enormity of replacing Burns, even after he became a parent and witnessed the show's effect on his own children. He admitted that he preferred when his daughter, who was 2 at the time, watched the Steve episodes.\n\nPatton, alongside Burns, cameo in the first episode of the 2019 revival \"Blue's Clues & You!\", reprising their roles as Joe and Steve respectively to help their cousin Josh (played by Joshua Dela Cruz) learn how to take care of Blue.\n\nIn 2012, Patton appeared in the short films \"Awake\" and \"Pharmboy\", the latter of which was directed by his longtime friend Lawrence Feeney. Mark Finguerra, the director of \"Awake\", was able to look past the potential typecasting of Patton's role in \"Blue's Clues\" to cast him in a darker role. Patton had impressed him in an audition for an earlier feature film. Finguerra called Patton a \"complete professional [and a] tremendous actor\", and enjoyable on set. He appeared in the soap opera \"One Life to Live\", in which he played, in a departure of his previous roles, \"a very angry man\". In 2014, he appeared in a small movie shot mostly in New Jersey, entitled \"Lies I Told My Little Sister\", directed by William Stribling and starring Lucy Walters.\n\nPatton called his career, with its mixture of children's television and darker roles in independent films, \"an odd experience\" and told a reporter that he had spent half his life at Nickelodeon. In 2009, he was cast as Bot, the robot superhero, on the children's show \"Team Umizoomi\" through the relationships he had made at Nickelodeon on \"Blue's Clues\". He found working on \"Team Umizoomi\" \"comforting\" because many of the same crew, producers, and creators had also worked on \"Blue's Clues\". It was the first time he had worked as a voice-over artist, unlike on \"Blue's Clues\", when he was able to be more physical acting in front of a blue screen. He said, about \"Team Umizoomi\", \"the work the animators have done on it has been superlative\". He stated that he enjoyed working on \"Team Umizoomi\" because it gave him the opportunity to participate in a show from its inception, which he had missed with \"Blue's Clues\". Patton said his voice performance of Bot, which he modeled on Brent Spiner's performance as the android Data on \"\" and was influenced by Mel Blanc's work in the classic Warner Bros. cartoons, \"ended up sounding more like my natural voice, with a teeny bit of superhero in there\". Despite both roles in \"Blue's Clues\" and \"Team Umizoomi\" requiring him to sing, he did not consider himself a natural singer and felt that he had to work hard at it. He said, about being cast as Bot, \"I get to be a superhero. Who doesn't want to be a superhero?\"\n\nPatton is married and has two children. He is active in several charities in the New York City area, including Literacy Inc., the Make-a-Wish Foundation, and the Columbia Presbyterian Hospital, a large children's hospital.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279736", "title": "Prunella Gee", "text": "Prunella Gee\n\nPrunella Mary Gee (born 17 February 1950) is an English counsellor and therapist, best known for her work as an actress in the 1970s and 1980s, and for the role of Doreen Heavey in \"Coronation Street\", a part she first played in 1999. Doreen appeared in 17 episodes before returning as a permanent character in 2002 and 2003. She came back the following year for three episodes, proving to be Gee's final television role.\n\nThe daughter of a prosperous business man living in Rutland, Gee was privately educated at Benenden School, where she was in the year below Princess Anne.\n\nWanting to become an actress, she studied at the prestigious London Academy of Music and Dramatic Art, where she won the Spotlight Award for Best Actress in 1972; she then spent six months in repertory playing Priestley, Shaw, Shakespeare, Feydeau and Orton.\n\nHer first television role was as Anna Fitzgerald in Granada Television's 1930s drama serial \"Shabby Tiger\" (1973), in which she rose to overnight notoriety by becoming the first model to show full frontal nudity on British television. She was quickly hailed as Britain's answer to Brigitte Bardot or Sophia Loren. In a 2002 interview, Gee recalled: \"I was working in serious theatre, but got a reputation of being a sex symbol. I was too young to know any better so I tended to go with the flow.\" \n\nGee made her film debut in 1975, alongside Sidney Poitier, Michael Caine, and Nicol Williamson, in \"The Wilby Conspiracy\", for which she was nominated Best Newcomer in the Evening News Film Awards. The same year she starred as journalist Sandy Williams in \"Cover Story\", episode 8 of the police drama series \"The Sweeney\".\n\nThroughout the 1970s and 1980s, Gee had guest roles in many television shows, including \"Return of the Saint\", \"The Glittering Prizes\", \"Hammer House of Horror\", \"The Professionals\", and \"Alas Smith & Jones\". She also made regular appearances on the game shows \"Call My Bluff\" and \"Give Us A Clue\".\n\nIn 1976, Gee starred as Sheila in Waris Hussein's production of \"Waiting For Sheila\" for the \"ITV Sunday Night Drama\" slot.\n\nShe appeared as Del Henney's girlfriend Rebecca Westgate in the second series of the ITV drama serial \"Fallen Hero\" in 1979.\n\nIn 1981, she starred as Miss Griffin in Nigel Kneale's short-lived LWT sci-fi comedy series \"Kinvig\", alongside Tony Haygarth.\n\nIn 1983, she appeared opposite Sean Connery as nurse Patrica Fearing in the unofficial James Bond film \"Never Say Never Again\". Other movies throughout the decade included 1985's \"Number One\", where she played a news reporter interviewing Bob Geldof's lead character, and in 1988 she played Sting's wife in the British noirish classic \"Stormy Monday\".\n\nIn 1985, she appeared as Penelope Keith's disruptive actress sister in the ITV sitcom \"Moving\", and the following year co-starred with Pat Phoenix in the less successful \"Constant Hot Water\", which was filmed in Bridlington.\n\nIn 1989, she made a guest appearance in the \"Going Away\" episode of the successful ITV comedy series \"After Henry\", and another in the short-lived comedy series, \"Split Ends\", starring Anita Dobson, in a part specially created for her in the episode titled \"The Brush Off\".\n\nIn 1998, she played Catherine McKay, a fading adult film star in the romantic comedy film \"Merchants of Venus\", filmed in Los Angeles, in which she starred with Michael York, Beverly D'Angelo and Brian Cox. Although well-received by the critics, \"Merchants of Venus\" wasn't made commercially available until 2002, when it surfaced to DVD.\n\nGee's last television role was Doreen Heavey in \"Coronation Street\", the mother of Maxine Peacock and a part she played in regular intervals from 1999 to 2004. The character of Doreen was scatty and flirty, and during her time on the show, had a brief flirtation with Mike Baldwin, a feud with Vera Duckworth, and was a constant source of irritation for her son-in-law Ashley, when she arrived at his and Maxine's house following a split with her husband Derrick, whom she was reconciled with in 2003.\n\nGee has had a long and varied career on the stage. David Storey cast her in his production of \"The Farm\" in 1973, her future husband Ken Campbell gave her the role of the Goddess of Chaos in his acclaimed play \"Illuminatus\" in 1976, and in 1988, she played all three women in \"Last of the Red Hot Lovers\".\n\nFrom 1989 to 1990, she starred as the blind Suzy in a national tour of \"Wait Until Dark\". She took on the double role of Alice in \"Double Take\", at the Liverpool Playhouse in 1990. The same year she devised and starred in \"Warhola\" with Snoo Wilson as Warhol (taken from The Philosophy of Andy Warhol) at Offstage and the Carib Theatre, Trinidad. \n\nFrom 1991 to 1992, she acted in the play \"Time and Time Again\", which included dates at the Theatre Royal, Bath. \n\nIn 1994, she appeared as Kate in William Shakespeare's \"The Taming of the Shrew\", a production which was directed by Val May.\n\nGee gave up acting in 2004. She briefly returned in 2011 when she appeared in the short film \"Trimming Pablo\".\n\nGee was once in a relationship with Michael Winner. She married the actor and director Ken Campbell in 1978, with whom she had a daughter, Daisy; the couple divorced after five years but remained on good terms.\n\nSince 2006, she has worked as a counsellor and therapist in Camden, London.\n\nIn April 2013, in her capacity as a counsellor, Gee was interviewed on Jo Good's BBC London 94.9 radio show, talking about addiction. On the programme, Gee revealed that she had given up acting because she had started her training as a counsellor whilst she was by then playing \"mums and grannies\", and there weren't as many parts for her. She had tried to do the two together but realised that she could not give her full attention to both. Gee said that she \"bravely\" said to her agent: \"that's it\", and that she wanted to be taken out of \"Spotlight.\" She added: \"It was the most liberating thing I've ever done\".\n\nIn 2012, Gee made a guest appearance at a Sweeney Meet event held in Hammersmith, London, joining fans of the 1970s show \"The Sweeney\", in which she had appeared.\n"}
{"id": "2279737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279737", "title": "Sir Watkin Williams-Wynn, 3rd Baronet", "text": "Sir Watkin Williams-Wynn, 3rd Baronet\n\nSir Watkin Williams-Wynn, 3rd Baronet (c. 169226 September 1749) was a Welsh landowner, Tory politician and prominent Jacobite sympathiser. He helped engineer the downfall of Robert Walpole in 1742 and engaged in negotiations with the exiled Stuarts prior to the 1745 Jacobite Rising but did not participate himself. He died in a hunting accident in 1749.\n\nWilliams-Wynn was the eldest son of Sir William Williams, 2nd Baronet, of Llanforda near Oswestry in Shropshire and Jane Thelwall. His grandfather, also Sir William Williams was Solicitor General under James II and led the prosecution of the Seven Bishops in 1688. His mother was a descendant of the antiquary Sir John Wynn, \n\nIn 1719, a later Sir John Wynn died, and through his mother's kinship Watkin inherited the Wynnstay estates on condition he add \"Wynn\" to his name, followed by his father's title and lands on his death in 1740. Through his first wife, Ann Vaughan (c. 1695–1748), Williams-Wynn acquired extensive estates in Montgomeryshire and Denbighshire and over time became the pre-eminent landowner in North Wales. When Anne died in March 1748, he married another heiress, his god-daughter Frances Shackerley (1721–1803); his son and heir, Sir Watkin Williams-Wynn, 4th Baronet (1749–1789) was born a few months before Sir Watkin's death in a hunting accident in September 1749.\n\nAfter graduating from Jesus College, Oxford, Williams-Wynn became Member of Parliament or MP for Denbighshire in 1716. His first recorded speech in Parliament did not occur until 1727 but he was an active member of the Tory Jacobite faction. As a leader of the Cycle of the White Rose, a Welsh Jacobite society, he \"burnt the King's picture\" during the 1722 General Election and opposed a \"loyal address\" to George I following the Atterbury Plot. He also served as Mayor of Oswestry in 1728/1729 and of Chester in 1736/1737.\n\nHis money and connections made Williams-Wynn a formidable local political power; in 1722, nine out of eleven Parliamentary seats in North Wales returned Tory candidates. While fiercely contested, the election confirmed the dominance of Robert Walpole and the Whig party; their exclusion from government resulted in the continuing expression of Jacobite sympathies among the more extreme Tories. Williams-Wynn employed Welsh colliers to threaten Whig supporters in the 1733 Chester mayoral election but overtly Jacobite displays were rare and often rooted in Tory opposition to Welsh religious Nonconformists.\n\nThe complexity of Jacobite support was demonstrated in 1736 when Williams-Wynn and other Tory Jacobites voted against repealing the Test Act and removing legal restrictions on those who were not members of the Church of England, such as Nonconformists and Catholics like the exiled Stuarts. Opposition to religious minorities in general was fuelled by memories of the divisions that led to the 1639–1651 Wars of the Three Kingdoms; it was particularly strong in Wales due to the early 18th century Welsh Methodist revival.\n\nWhen the Tory leader Sir William Wyndham died in 1740, Williams-Wynn led the campaign against Walpole, in partnership with Sir John Hynde Cotton, allegedly one of \"the most zealous Jacobites in England.\" In contrast to Williams-Wynn, Cotton was a gifted orator who helped organised the Parliamentary campaign against Walpole.\n\nIn the 1741 General Election, Walpole targeted Williams-Wynn's Denbighshire seat; although he won the popular vote by 1352 votes to 933, 594 of these were disallowed, returning his rival. He sat instead for Montgomeryshire and after Walpole's resignation in 1742, regained his seat of Denbighshire on appeal. However, the chief beneficiaries of Walpole's fall were the so-called Patriot Whigs and a Tory faction led by Lord Gower who became Lord Privy Seal in 1742. This led Jacobites like Williams-Wynn and the 4th Duke of Beaufort to re-open negotiations with Stuart agents.\n\nIn early 1744, Cotton accepted a government position in Henry Pelham's so-called Broad Bottom Ministry and Williams-Wynn voted with the government for the first time in his career. Although Britain and France were then engaged in the War of the Austrian Succession, in October 1744 he secretly travelled to Versailles where Louis XV assured him of French support for a Jacobite rising.\n\nIn common with many other Jacobites, Williams-Wynn's support was conditional on a substantial French military landing in England. When Charles Stuart invaded England during the 1745 Rising, Williams-Wynn remained in London to attend Parliament, only sending an oral message promising help when a French army arrived, an offer that arrived too late to help Charles. After the Rebellion ended, the testimony of Prince Charles' former secretary Murray of Broughton led to the execution of Lord Lovat; he also implicated a number of Tories, including Williams-Wynn and Cotton but the government decided against further prosecutions.\nThe Tories were now split into a \"Jacobite\" faction led by Williams-Wynn and those who followed Lord Gower; in an effort to stir up support and differentiate themselves, Williams-Wynn and others participated in Jacobite demonstrations at the 1747 Lichfield Races. Despite these efforts, the 1747 General Election reduced the Jacobite Tories to a largely irrelevant rump.\n\nDespite his failure to participate in the 1745 Rising, Williams-Wynn wrote to Prince Charles in December 1747, assuring him that his supporters wished \"for nothing more than another happy opportunity wherein they may exert themselves more in deeds than in words, in the support of your Royal Highness's dignity and interest and the cause of liberty.\" The tendency to say one thing and do another was not uncommon; for example, Cotton urged Louis XV to invade in August 1745, despite being a government minister at the time.\n\nThe demonstration at Lichfield was one of the last significant displays of Jacobite sentiment, although his son the 4th Baronet re-established the White Rose Cycle in 1770, where it served as a club for a range of independent opinions.\n\nHe was buried at Ruabon in the parish church of St Mary's. His widow, Dame Frances, commissioned a monument from the sculptor Michael Rysbrack completed in 1755; it was too large for the existing chancel and a new south-east chapel was built to house it.\n\nHe commissioned the building of a new mansion at Wynnstay to replace the original by William Eyton in 1616, later destroyed by fire in 1858. At his death, his estates stretched over five Welsh counties and into the English county of Shropshire, reputedly producing an estimated rental income of £20,000. This was a very substantial sum at the time but it was also rumoured that his political activities left his heir with debts of over £120,000.\n\nSir Watkin Williams-Wynn left a number of items to Jesus College, including a massive silver-gilt punch bowl weighing more than and holding . This was used at a dinner in 1814, celebrating the defeat of Napoleon; attendees included the Tsar of Russia, Frederick of Prussia, General Blücher, Metternich, the Prince Regent, the Duke of York and the Duke of Wellington.\n\nA portrait of Williams-Wynn by Thomas Hudson was acquired by Jesus College in 1997; it is not on public display as it hangs in the Senior Common Room of the college. It shows him wearing a sky-blue coat, a symbol used by Tory Jacobite sympathisers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279743", "title": "Idealised population", "text": "Idealised population\n\nIn population genetics an idealised population is one that can be described using a number of simplifying assumptions. Models of idealised populations are either used to make a general point, or they are fit to data on real populations for which the assumptions may not hold true. For example, coalescent theory is used to fit data to models of idealised populations. The most common idealized population in population genetics is described in the Wright-Fisher model after Sewall Wright and Ronald Fisher (1922, 1930) and (1931). Wright-Fisher populations have constant size, and their members can mate and reproduce with any other member. Another example is a Moran model, which has overlapping generations, rather than the non-overlapping generations of the Fisher-Wright model. The complexities of real populations can cause their behavior to match an idealised population with an effective population size that is very different from the census population size of the real population. For sexual diploids, idealized populations will have genotype frequencies related to the allele frequencies according to Hardy-Weinberg equilibrium.\n\nIn 1908, G. H. Hardy and Wilhelm Weinberg modeled an idealised population to demonstrate that in the absence of selection, migration, random genetic drift, allele frequencies stay constant over time, and that in the presence of random mating, genotype frequencies are related to allele frequencies according to a binomial square principle called the Hardy-Weinberg law.\n\nA good example of usage idealised population model, in tracking natural population conditions, could be found in a research of Joe Roman and Stephen R. Palumbi (2003). Using genetic diversity data, they questioned: have populations of North Atlantic great whales recovered enough for commercial whaling? To calculate genetic diversity the authors multiply long term effective population size of the females by two, assuming sex ratio 1:1, and then multiply by mitochondrial genes substitution rate, per generation. Making several assumptions according to the sex ratio and number of juveniles, they were able to calculate that in contrast to historical records, modern whale populations are far from harvestable range.\n\nIdealised population models could not only provide us with information about present populations conditions but are useful in revealing natural history and population dynamics in the past as well. Using an idealised population model, Anders Eriksson and Andrea Manica (2012) tested the hypothesis of the archaic human admixture with modern humans. The authors compare genome sequences of two human populations, Neanderthals and chimpanzee. Eriksson and Manica created a stepping stone model under which Africa and Eurasia are represented as a string of equal size populations. They concluded that under the stepping stone model, in which Europeans can exchange genetic information with Asians and not with Africans, similarities between Neanderthal genome and Eurasian could be explained by ancient populations structure.\n\nUsage of models, also allows to perform simulations, including in silica ones, to hypothesize evolutionary outcomes. As an example, PopG is a free computer program that is capable of simulating simultaneous evolution of populations based on Fisher-Wright model. Idealised population model also, could be used in several simple simulations designed for education. So, Charles Darwin: Can you survive? Simulation is designed to introduce general public to the concept of natural selection. Another example is Genetic Drift simulator (Requires an updated Java version), which is designed to visualize influence of genetic drift on natural populations.\n"}
{"id": "2279750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279750", "title": "Propidium iodide", "text": "Propidium iodide\n\nPropidium iodide (or PI) is a fluorescent intercalating agent that can be used to stain cells and nucleic acids. PI binds to DNA by intercalating between the bases with little or no sequence preference. When in an aqueous solution, PI has a fluorescent excitation maximum of 493 nm (blue-green), and an emission maximum of 636 nm (red). After binding DNA, the quantum yield of PI is enhanced 20-30 fold, and the excitation/emission maximum of PI is shifted to 535 nm (green) / 617 nm (orange-red). Propidium iodide is used as a DNA stain in flow cytometry to evaluate cell viability or DNA content in cell cycle analysis, or in microscopy to visualize the nucleus and other DNA-containing organelles. Propidium Iodide is not membrane-permeable, making it useful to differentiate necrotic, apoptotic and healthy cells based on membrane integrity. PI also binds to RNA, necessitating treatment with nucleases to distinguish between RNA and DNA staining. PI is widely used in fluorescence staining and visualization of the plant cell wall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279751", "title": "Jamestown Bridge", "text": "Jamestown Bridge\n\nThe Jamestown Bridge, (usually referred to as the Old Jamestown Bridge to avoid confusion with its replacement, the Jamestown Verrazzano Bridge), was a cantilever truss bridge that connected Conanicut Island to mainland North Kingstown, Rhode Island, spanning the West passage of Narragansett Bay. The bridge first opened to traffic in 1940, replacing ferry service as the primary connection for the town of Jamestown, situated on Conanicut Island. It was constructed for just over $3 million 1940 USD, which was paid for by tolls until June 28, 1969. With a total length of 6,892 feet (2,100 m), the Jamestown Bridge was the third longest in Rhode Island at the time of its destruction, ranking behind its replacement, the adjacent 7,350-foot (2,240 m) Jamestown Verrazzano Bridge, and the 11,248-foot (3,428 m) Claiborne Pell Newport Bridge connecting Conanicut Island to Aquidneck Island and Newport. The Jamestown Bridge was closed to vehicular traffic on October 8, 1992, and its main span was destroyed through a controlled demolition on April 18, 2006.\n\nNavigating around Narragansett Bay had proved troublesome since the colonial era, the first ferry operation began in 1675 introduced an alternate to the long route around Providence, Rhode Island. Steam service in the West Passage began in 1888 and reduced travel times, but subject to weather conditions. In 1920, the first plans for the Jamestown Bridge began and it was stimulated by the Newport Ferry Company's financial troubles. In 1934, during the Great Depression, the State of Rhode Island sought funding from the United States federal government to construct bridges over both the West Passage and East Passage of the bay. The plans were well-supported and passed the Rhode Island House of Representatives by a 96-to-1 vote, and were approved by President Franklin Roosevelt. The minor opposition to the bridge's construction was quelled after the 1938 New England hurricane destroyed the ferry docks and one of the ferryboats on September 21, 1938, stopping ferry service.\n\nThe bridge was designed by Parsons, Klapp, Brinckerhoff and Douglass and called for a bridge with 69 spans with a total cost of $3 million. The bridge was delayed by two months, but was completed for better than $100,000 under budget. A crew of nearly 200 constructed the bridge and the work was completed without a single fatality. This claim however is contested as a fatality took place during the construction of the coffer dams on September 18, 1939. On July 27, 1940, the bridge opened for traffic and a 90 cent toll was charged on the Kingstown side. The toll would later be reduced to 35 cents and 25 cents before being removed in 1969, following the completion of the Newport (Pell) Bridge. A formal dedication of the bridge commenced on the weekend of August 2 through August 4, 1940, with a military marine parade on the final day.\n\nThe bridge consisted of 69 spans with a large continuous cantilever Warren truss centerpiece. The 600 ft (183 m) main span was 135 ft (41 m) above the western portion of the Narragansett Bay. The bridge was long thought to be a danger to motorists, consisting of only two undivided lanes, and during the summer months, the eastbound lane was usually at a standstill due to vacationers traveling to Newport via the main route from the mainland. Its steep climb proved challenging for some vehicles and with no passing lanes or shoulders, hazardous conditions resulted when stalled vehicles were on the bridge. The roadway deck through the cantilevered span was an open steel-grid deck, similar to that of the Castleton Bridge just south of Albany, New York, or the now-demolished Sikorsky Bridge on the Merritt Parkway in Connecticut. The deck proved to be extremely slippery when wet. After the bridge began to show structural problems with age, RIDOT began construction of the Jamestown-Verrazano Bridge in 1985. The new bridge, which opened on October 8, 1992, includes four divided lanes of traffic with shoulders.\n\nThe bridge is reported to have inspired fear in motorists because of its open grates, which allowed the motorists to peer down into the Narragansett Bay about below, and because the bridge would shake in high winds. Head-on collisions on the undivided bridge were reported to be common, and the steel grid pavement was noted as \"treacherous\" when wet.\n\nThe United States Coast Guard had long declared the Jamestown Bridge to be a navigation hazard and requested that the state of Rhode Island dismantle the eastern two thirds of it. The Sierra Club, an environmental organization, suggested to instead turn the bridge into a bike route and walkway. However, the aging structure proved to be in far worse condition than previously thought, prompting officials to go ahead with removing the entire structure.\n\nOn April 18, 2006, the main span of the Jamestown Bridge was brought down by 75 pounds of RDX explosives and 350 shaped charges. TNT charges were later used to remove the concrete piers. On May 18, 2006, crews imploded the trusses that once carried the side spans. Throughout mid-2006, workers removed the remaining support piers and low-level approach spans west of the main channel. The extreme western portion of the bridge was not demolished with the remains of the bridge during 2006, as officials planned to renovate and convert it into a fishing pier, but ultimately it was removed in 2010 when renovation and cleanup proved too costly. That last part was then demolished in the same year. The total cost for removal of the Jamestown Bridge was US$22 million. The demolished steel superstructure was floated away for recycling, while concrete from the bridge piers was used to create artificial reefs below the mouth of Narragansett Bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279756", "title": "Geneva (band)", "text": "Geneva (band)\n\nGeneva are a Scottish rock band formed in Aberdeen in 1992. The group enjoyed moderate chart success but split after the release of their second album. They reformed in 2018, minus guitarist Stuart Evans, in preparation for a live tour in 2019.\n\nThe band were formed in 1992 by vocalist Andrew Montgomery and guitarist Steven Dora. They recruited second guitarist Stuart Evans, bass player Keith Graham and finally drummer Craig Brown. Craig was later replaced by Douglas Caskie. Originally the band were called Sunfish.\n\nOne of their demos found their way to Suede’s record label, Nude, who signed the band in 1996. The band changed their name, originally to Garland, then later to Geneva, and released their debut single \"No One Speaks\" the same year. The band garnered enough press to headline \"NME\"'s annual Bratbus tour of up and coming bands in early 1997. The band released second single \"Into the Blue\" to coincide with the tour.\n\nThe band fitted well with the current musical scene and were well promoted by the UK music press of the time. As a reaction to the fading Britpop scene many bands rejected the laddish ideals of bands like Oasis and wrote darker, more intelligent songs, in the vein of contemporaries such as Gene and Strangelove. Montgomery's relatively high-pitched vocals were often compared to Suede's Brett Anderson.\n\nGeneva released their debut album, \"Further\", early in June 1997. The album mixed power pop with darker brooding songs. It reached No. 20 in the UK Albums Chart, and included amongst others the \"NME\" voted \"Single of the Year\", \"Tranquilizer\", plus \"Best Regrets\", \"No One Speaks\" and \"Into the Blue\". All four singles from the album reached the UK Top 40.\n\nThe second album, \"Weather Underground\", was released in March 2000, after more than a year of wrangling with the band's record label. It was preceded by the single \"Dollars in the Heavens\" (which only made the UK Top 60) and followed by the single \"If You Have To Go\". The band split later that year.\n\nFollowing the breakup of Geneva, Evans and Graham formed 69CORP and released an album, \"Our Present to the Future\" in 2005, although 69CORP now consists of just Graham.\n\nAndrew Montgomery embarked on a number of musical collaborations, most notably with American composer Ben Neill and Leeds electronica guru Overseer. Montgomery formed a band called Amityville with guitarist Stuart Peck and drummer David Bevis; they released the \"Pacific Radio Fire\" EP in 2004 to critical acclaim - a limited release, it quickly sold out. Amityville broke up in late 2005 and Montgomery formed a duo with Keris Howard called St Famous. In March 2009 Montgomery announced on the band's Myspace page that Keris Howard had decided to leave the band and St Famous disbanded.\n\nMontgomery appeared in the \"Identity Parade\" in series 22 (2008) of the BBC television programme \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\".\n\nMontgomery announced in July 2014 that his début solo album, \"Ruled By Dreams\" would receive a worldwide release on 5 October 2014, supported with a UK tour. The album is slated to feature Suede guitarist Richard Oakes, Norwegian singer Kate Havnevik and was produced and co-written with Britney Spears, Robyn, Frou Frou and Alison Moyet collaborator Sean McGhee. Andrew then went on to join an electronic duo called us for a few songs and a tour. As of 2018 they have reunited for the Star Shaped Festival tour and have teased they may be releasing new music.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279758", "title": "Robert Wilberforce", "text": "Robert Wilberforce\n\nRobert Isaac Wilberforce (19 December 18023 February 1857) was an English clergyman and writer.\n\nHe was second son of abolitionist William Wilberforce, and active in the Oxford Movement.\nHe was educated at Oriel College, Oxford, taking a double first in 1823.\n\nIn 1826, he was chosen fellow of Oriel and was ordained, among his friends and colleagues being Newman, Pusey and Keble. Though Robert is perhaps lesser known, all were prominent figures within the Oxford Movement and involved in the publication of the Tracts for the Times.\n\nFor a few years he was one of the tutors at Oriel. The provost Edward Hawkins disliked his religious views, and in 1831 Wilberforce resigned and left Oxford. His release from Oxford gave him the opportunity to study in Germany; his familiarity with German theology and competency as a German scholar being one of the things for which he was most revered among his contemporaries.\n\nIn 1832 he obtained the living of East Farleigh, Kent, which in 1840 he exchanged for that of Burton Agnes, near Hull. \n\nIn 1841, he was appointed archdeacon of the East Riding of Yorkshire. About this time Wilberforce became close with Henry Manning, and they exchanged many letters on theological and ecclesiastical questions. They were deeply involved in re-examining the relationship between the Church of England and Roman Catholicism. On 27 March 1848, Robert Wilberforce and his brother Samuel joined the Canterbury Association.\n\nIt was during his time in Burton Agnes, and his correspondence with Manning, that Robert’s real struggle with his religion began. The slow pace of life ensured much of his time was spent mulling over the same arguments over and over again. His growing disillusionment was centered on what he perceived to be an untidy boundary between the State and the Church which caused his allegiance to the Church of England to gradually wane until it disappeared altogether. \n\nIn 1851, Manning joined the Roman Catholic Church, and three years later Wilberforce took the same step. His conversion came as a reaction to the so-called Gorham Judgement. The effects of which seemed to affirm Robert’s doubts and consequently his conviction that the Church of England was a heretical body to which he could no longer belong with a clear conscience, turning his loyalty away from Canterbury and York, towards Rome for good. \n\nIt is also thought that the controversy excited following the publication of his Doctrine of the Holy Eucharist - the third in a series of such doctrines which re-examined sacramental teaching and were published in the years 1848 to 1853 – may have propelled him towards the Roman Catholic Church, forcing him to finally make the decision he had struggled with for so many years. So extreme were his views on the Eucharist that they were considered heretical and once rumours of prosecution began to reach him in the summer of 1854 Robert’s mind was made up. On the 30th of August he recalled his subscription to the Oath of Supremacy and submitted his resignation from all his posts to the Archbishop and in October made the trip to Paris where he was to be received into the Church of Rome on All Saints’ Eve.\n\nHe was preparing for his (Roman Catholic) ordination when he died at Albano on 3 February 1857. He is buried in Rome at the Basilica of Santa Maria sopra Minerva, near the Pantheon. His tomb is situated just outside the right transept of the church.\n\nWilberforce was pre-deceased by his first wife Agnes Everilda Frances Wrangham (1800–1834) and second wife Jane Legard (d. 1854). \n\nHe was survived by two sons, William Francis Wilberforce (1833–1905), Vicar of Brodsworth and president of the Oxford Union, and Edward Wilberforce (1834–1914), who became one of the masters of the Supreme Court of Judicature. Edward's son Lionel Robert Wilberforce (1861–1944) was in 1900 appointed professor of physics in the University of Liverpool, and his other children were:\n\n\nR. I. Wilberforce assisted his brother, Samuel Wilberforce to write the \"Life\" and to edit the \"Correspondence\" of his father.\n\n\nHis first published work was a romance, \"Rutilius and Lucius\" (1842).\n\nRobert was regarded as one of the greatest scholars of the Oxford Movement and his knowledge of Christian doctrine not easily matched by his contemporaries. The contents of his library are testament to this with known collections surviving at Wilberforce House Museum, Hull and within the University of York’s Rare Books Library. The subject matter contained within these libraries is wide-ranging, reflecting the interests, passions and religious devotion of the Wilberforce family and are thought to have been actively used for self-improvement and religious inspiration as evidenced through the many examples of handwritten notes and annotations that can be found.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279760", "title": "Katrina Warren", "text": "Katrina Warren\n\nKatrina Louise Warren (born 8 December 1967) is an Australian veterinarian, best known as the co-host of several popular television programs on channel 7.\n\nAfter working as a fashion model in Japan, Warren first appeared on television screens in the Ten Network's children's program \"Totally Wild\" in 1994.\n\nWarren is best known for her appearances from 1997 on the Seven Network family show \"Harry's Practice\" as a resident vet. She was the star of \"Beverly Hills Vet\" a show produced by Animal Planet in 2003. She also appeared in 2004 as a contestant on \"Dancing with the Stars\". Warren also presented on the Channel Seven lifestyle show \"Melbourne Weekender\" with Jo Silvagni.\n\nFrom 2008–2010, Warren worked as a host of the TV Show \"Housecat Housecall\" on Animal Planet in the US.\n\nWarren gave birth to a girl in 2007. Warren and her husband, Anthony Darcy, separated 15 months later, after being married for nearly 3 years. Warren lives in Sydney.\n"}
{"id": "2279762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279762", "title": "Stanislav Kosior", "text": "Stanislav Kosior\n\nStanisław Vikentyevich Kosior (, 18 November 1889 – 26 February 1939), sometimes spelled Kossior, was one of three Kosior brothers, ethnically Polish Soviet politicians. He was First Secretary of the Ukrainian Communist Party, deputy prime minister of the USSR and member of the Politburo of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU). He was executed during the Great Purge.\n\nStanisław Kosior was born in 1889 in Węgrów in the Siedlce Governorate of the Russian Empire, in the region of Podlachia, to a Polish family of humble factory workers. Because of poverty, he emigrated to Yuzovka (modern Donetsk), where he worked at a steel mill. In 1907 he joined the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party and quickly became the head of the local branch of the party. He was arrested and sacked from his job in the party later that year, and the following year felt obliged to leave the area due to police activity. He used connections to get re-appointed at the Sulin factory in 1909, but was soon arrested again and deported to the Pavlovsk mine. In 1913 he was transferred to Moscow and then to Kiev and Kharkiv, where he organized local Communist cells. In 1915 he was arrested by the Okhrana (the Russian secret police) and exiled to Siberia.\n\nAfter the February Revolution Kosior moved to Petrograd, where he headed the local branch of the Bolsheviks and the Narva municipal committee. After the October Revolution Kosior moved to the German-controlled areas of the Ober-Ost and Ukraine, where he worked for the Bolshevik cause. After the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, he moved back to Russia, where in 1920 he became Secretary of the CPSU. In 1922 he became head of the Siberian branch of the CPSU. From 1925 to 1928 he was Secretary of the Central Committee of the CPSU.\n\nFrom 1919, Kosior was for some time a member of Ukraine's Politburo. In 1928 he became General Secretary of the Ukrainian SSR Communist Party. Among his tasks was the collectivization of agriculture in Ukraine.\n\nIn 1930 Kosior was admitted to the Politburo of the CPSU. In 1935 he was awarded the Order of Lenin \"for remarkable success in the field of agriculture\". In January 1938 he also became head of the Soviet Control Office and deputy prime minister of the USSR. This was the peak of his political success.\n\nOn 3 May 1938, during the Great Purge, Kosior was stripped of all Party posts and arrested by the NKVD. \"Stanislav Kosior withstood brutal tortures [at the hands of the NKVD] but cracked when his sixteen-year-old daughter was brought into the room and raped in front of him.\" On 26 February 1939 he was sentenced to death by shooting and executed the same day by General Vasili Blokhin. Other Politburo members purged in this period were Jānis Rudzutaks, Robert Eikhe, Vlas Chubar and Pavel Postyshev.\n\nAfter Stalin's death, Kosior was rehabilitated by the Soviet government on 14 March 1956. On 13 January 2010, Kosior was condemned by the Court of Appeals of Ukraine as a political criminal for organizing mass famine in Ukraine in 1932–1933; the court quashed criminal proceedings due to his death.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2279767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279767", "title": "Bambouk Mountains", "text": "Bambouk Mountains\n\nThe Bambouk Mountains are a mountain range in western Mali, near its border with Senegal. They were once a major centre for gold mining, selling the metal to Arab traders as early as the 12th century. Mali is currently the third largest producer of gold in Africa because it still mines the mountain range's now significantly diminished deposits.\n"}
{"id": "2279772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279772", "title": "Howard Unwin Moffat", "text": "Howard Unwin Moffat\n\nHoward Unwin Moffat (13 January 1869 – 19 January 1951) served as second premier of Southern Rhodesia, from 1927 to 1933. Born in the Kuruman mission station in Bechuanaland (now in the Northern Cape province of South Africa), Moffat was the son of the missionary John Smith Moffat and grandson of the missionary Robert Moffat, who was the friend of King Mzilikazi and the father-in-law of David Livingstone. Howard Moffat attended St. Andrew's College, Grahamstown in 1885.\n\nAfter service in the Bechuanaland Border Police, Moffat moved to Bulawayo and served in the 1893 Matabele War and the Anglo-Boer War. He was elected to the Legislative Council in 1923 as member for Victoria and served as Minister of Mines and Works under Charles Coghlan. He succeeded as premier after Coghlan's death in 1927 (his title was later changed to Prime Minister).\n\nMoffat was viewed as a conservative who believed that Rhodesia would eventually join the Union of South Africa. He oversaw the purchase, for £2 million, of the British South Africa Company's remaining mineral rights in Southern Rhodesia. His government passed the 1930 Land Apportionment Act, which defined the pattern of land allocation and ownership and is viewed as being one of the ultimate causes of the land disputes during land reform in Zimbabwe from 2000. He resigned in 1933 and was succeeded by George Mitchell. In the 1933 general election he lost his seat.\n\nIn the 1939 general election Moffat attempted to restart the Rhodesia Party but this met with failure.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279785", "title": "Incorporation by reference", "text": "Incorporation by reference\n\nIn law, Incorporation by reference is the act of including a second document within another document by only mentioning the second document. This act, if properly done, makes the entire second document a part of the main document. Incorporation by reference is often done in creating laws as well as in contract law and trust and estate law.\n\nIn law regarding wills, it is a doctrine at common law which allows a testator, or a creator of a will, to dispose of assets in his estate in accordance with a separate document. To be valid, such a document must comply with the following requirements:\nAn exception to the first requirement is made for small gifts of tangible personal property, such as household furniture and items of sentimental value.\n\nOral instructions can \"not\" be subject to incorporation by reference. For example, if a testator states in the will that he has recited to a third party the intended disposition of testamentary assets, such attempt to circumvent the requirements of a written will is void.\n\nIn American administrative law, incorporation by reference is a drafting tool that enables federal agencies to give legal effect to materials that are already published elsewhere. This is allowed under a provision of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. § 552(a)(1). Section 552(a) requires agencies to publish regulations in the Federal Register in order to enforce them. Section 552(a)(1) provides that if material published elsewhere is \"reasonably available to the class of persons affected\" and the Director of the Federal Register approves its incorporation by reference, that material will be \"deemed published\" in the Federal Register. It is most controversially used to incorporate privately authored voluntary consensus standards into health and safety regulations without infringing the standards developers' copyright. Federal law and policy, embodied in the National Technology Transfer and Advancement Act of 1995 and Office of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-119, requires federal agencies to use these standards instead of creating \"government-unique\" technical standards purely to serve regulatory purposes.\n\nIn some countries, a specification of a patent application may incorporate by reference the content of a previous patent, patent application, or non-patent publication. The information incorporated by reference is treated as part of the text of the application as filed.\n"}
{"id": "2279786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279786", "title": "Phuthi language", "text": "Phuthi language\n\nPhuthi (\"Síphùthì\") is a Nguni Bantu language spoken in southern Lesotho and areas in South Africa adjacent to the same border. The closest substantial living relative of Phuthi is Swati (or \"Siswati\"), spoken in Swaziland and the Mpumalanga province of South Africa. Although there is no contemporary sociocultural or political contact, Phuthi is linguistically part of a historic dialect continuum with Swati. Phuthi is heavily influenced by the surrounding Sesotho and Xhosa languages, but retains a distinct core of lexicon and grammar not found in either Xhosa or Sesotho, and found only partly in Swati to the north.\n\nThe documentary origins of Phuthi can be traced to Bourquin (1927), but in other oblique references nearly 200 years from the present (Ellenberger 1912). Until recently, the language has been very poorly documented with respect to its linguistic properties. The only significant earlier study (but with very uneven data, and limited coherent linguistic assumptions) is Godfrey Mzamane (1949).\n\nIt has been estimated that around 20,000 people in South Africa and Lesotho use Phuthi as their home language, but the actual figures could be much higher. No census data on Phuthi-speakers is available from either South Africa or Lesotho. The language is certainly endangered.\n\nPhuthi is spoken in dozens (perhaps many dozens) of scattered communities in the border areas between where the far northern Eastern Cape meets Lesotho: from Herschel northwards and eastwards, and in the Matatiele area of the northeastern Transkei; and throughout southern Lesotho, from Quthing in the southwest, through regions south and east of Mount Moorosi, to mountain villages west and north of Qacha (Qacha's Nek).\n\nWithin Phuthi, there are at least two dialect areas, based on linguistic criteria: Mpapa/Daliwe vs. all other areas. This taxonomy is based on a single (but very salient) phonological criterion (presence/absence of secondary labialisation). Mpapa and Daliwe (Sesotho \"Taleoe\" ) are villages in southern Lesotho, southeast of Mount Moorosi, on the dust road leading to Tosing, then on to Mafura (itself a Phuthi-speaking village), and finally Mpapa/Daliwe. Other Phuthi-speaking areas (all given in Lesotho Sesotho orthography) include Makoloane [makolwani] and Mosuoe [musuwe], near Quthing, in south-western Lesotho; Seqoto (Xhosa \"Zingxondo\", Phuthi \"Sigxodo\" ); Makoae (Phuthi \"Magwayi\") further to the east; and a number of villages north and west of Qacha's Nek. (Qacha is the main southeastern town in Lesotho, in the Qacha's Nek District). Phuthi-speaking diaspora (that is, heritage) areas include the far northern Transkei villages of Gcina [gǀina] (on the road to the Tele Bridge border post) and Mfingci [mfiᵑǀi] (across the Tele River, opposite Sigxodo, approximately).\n\nThe most famous Phuthi leader in the historical record was the powerful chief, Moorosi (born in 1795). It seems that approximately the land south of the Orange River in present-day Lesotho was Phuthi-speaking during the time of the greatest historical figure in the history of the Basotho people, Moshoeshoe I – just seven years older than Moorosi—whose authority in the 1830s, however, was far from covering the present-day territory of Lesotho. Until 1820, there were only \"a few isolated villages of Basotho, and a small clan of Baphut[h]i, over which Moshoeshoe exercised ill-defined sovereignty\". Most Phuthis, with Moorosi, were far to the south of Thaba Bosiu, south of the Orange River, well out of Moshoeshoe's way.\n\nMoorosi was to die in unclear circumstances on Mount Moorosi (Sesotho \"Thaba Moorosi\") in 1879, after a protracted nine-month siege by the British, Boer (i.e. Afrikaner farmers) and Basotho forces (including the military participation of the Cape Mounted Riflemen). This siege is often referred to as \"Moorosi's Rebellion\". The issue that triggered the siege was alleged livestock theft in the Herschel area. In the aftermath of the siege, Phuthi people dispersed widely over what is contemporary southern Lesotho and the northern Transkei region, to escape capture by the colonial powers. It is for this reason, it has been hypothesised, that Phuthi villages (including Mpapa, Daliwe, Hlaela, Mosifa and Mafura—all to the east of Mount Moorosi, in Lesotho) are typically found in such topographically mountainous regions, accessible only with great difficulty to outsiders).\n\nAfter the siege of \"Moorosi's rebellion\", many Phuthi people were captured, and forced into building the bridge (now, the old bridge) at Aliwal North that crosses the Senqu (Orange River). Prior to 1879, it seems Moorosi had been regarded in some ways as a very threatening competitor to Chief Moshoeshoe I. Even though currently represented to a nominal extent in the Lesotho government in Maseru, subsequent to the 1879 uprising the Phuthi people essentially fade from modern Lesotho and Eastern Cape history.\n\nPhuthi is a Bantu language, clearly within the southeastern Zone S (cf. Guthrie 1967–1971). But within southern Africa Phuthi is viewed ambivalently as being either a Nguni or a Sotho–Tswana language, given the very high level of hybridity displayed in all subsystems of the grammar (lexicon, phonetics, phonology, morphology, syntax).\n\nBut Phuthi is genetically—along with Zulu, Hlubi, Xhosa, northern and southern Ndebele, and Swati—certainly a Nguni language. Thus, it should be numbered in the S.40 group within Zone S, following Guthrie's classification. Further, given the range of lexical, phonological and even low-level phonetic effects that appear to be shared almost exclusively with Swati, Phuthi can be classified uncontroversially as a Tekela Nguni language, that is, in the subset of Nguni that includes Swati, some versions of Southern Ndebele, and the Eastern Cape remnant languages, Bhaca and Hlubi.\n\nThe contemporary lexicon and morphology of Phuthi confirms the standard claim (e.g. Godfrey Mzamane 1949) that Phuthi displays very heavy contact and levelling effects from its long cohabitation with Sesotho (for a period perhaps in excess of three centuries). There is, for example, a very high level of 'lexical doublets' for many items, for many speakers, e.g. \"-ciga\" \"think\" (Nguni-source), and \"-nakana\" \"think\" (Sesotho-source). Phuthi noun class prefixes are nearly all of the shape CV- (that is, they follow the Sesotho consonant-vowel shape, not the general Nguni VCV- shape).\n\nThere are also regional effects: the Mpapa Phuthi dialect (the only one to retain labialised coronal stops) leans much more heavily towards Sesotho lexicon and morphology (and even phonology), whereas the Sigxodo dialect leans more towards Xhosa lexicon and morphology (and even phonology).\n\nSustained field work in 1994/1995 among speech communities in Sigxodo and Mpapa (southern Lesotho) resulted in the discovery of a surprisingly wide range of phonological and morphological phenomena, aspects of which are unique to Phuthi (within all of the southern Bantu region).\n\nThe following phoneme inventory is found in Phuthi:\n\nContrary to other Nguni languages, Phuthi has a 9-vowel system with four different heights. It has acquired a new series of \"superclose\" vowels and from Sotho, while the inherited Nguni high vowels are reflected as and .\n\nTwo vowel harmony patterns propagate in opposite directions: perseverative superclose vowel height harmony (left-to-right); and anticipatory ATR/RTR tenseness harmony, invoking mid vowels (right-to-left). In the first, 'supercloseness'—also a Sesotho vocalic property—in root-final position triggers suffix vowels of the same supercloseness value. In the second, all mid vowels uninterruptedly adjacent to the right edge of a phonological word are lax ([RTR]); all other mid vowels are tense ([ATR]).\n\nVowel imbrication is the vowel harmony-like morphophonological phenomenon found in many Bantu languages. Vowel imbrication in two-syllable verb roots is effectively fully productive in Phuthi, that is, \"-CaC-a\" verb stems become \"-CeC-e\" in the perfective aspect (or 'perfect tense'), e.g. \"-tfwatsha\" 'carry on the head' → \"-tfwetshe\" 'be carrying on the head', \"-mabha\" 'catch, hold' → \"-mebhe\" 'be holding'. (Cf. examples 9, 11, below).\n\nThe 'supercloseness' property also active in the first vowel harmony type (above) is active in at least one paradigm of the Phuthi morphological system (the axiomatic negative polarity of the copula: \"There is no...\"). A morphological use for a vocalic property (here: [supercloseness]) does not appear to be recorded elsewhere for a Bantu language.\n\n\nPhuthi has a system of click consonants, typical for nearly all Nguni, at the three common articulation points: dental, alveolar, and lateral. But the range of manners and phonations, or click 'accompaniments', is relatively impoverished, with only four: tenuis \"c q x\", aspirated \"ch qh xh\", voiced \"gc gq gx\", and nasal \"nc nq nx\". Swati, by comparison, has clicks at only one place (dental ), but five (or even six) manners and phonations. The reduced variety of clicks in Phuthi may be partly related to the nearly total absence of prenasalised consonants in Phuthi, assuming (for example) *nkx, *ngx would be analyzed as equivalent to prenasalized *ng, *nk.\n\nEither of two surface tone distinctions, H (high) or L (low), is possible for each syllable (and in certain limited cases rising (LH) and falling (HL) tones are possible too). There is a subtype within the L tone category: when a syllable is 'depressed' (that is, from a depressor consonant in the onset position, or a morphologically or lexically imposed depression feature in the syllabic nucleus), the syllable is produced phonetically at a lower pitch. This system of tone depression is phonologically regular (that is, the product of a small number of phonological parameters), but is highly complex, interacting extensively with the morphology (and to some extent with the lexicon). Phonologically, Phuthi is argued to display a three-way High/Low/toneless distinction. Like all Nguni languages, Phuthi also displays phonetically rising and falling syllables, always related to the position of a depressed syllabic nucleus.\n\nIn line with a number of southern Bantu languages (including all Nguni, Venda, Tsonga and Shona), and also all Khoisan languages of southwestern Africa), a significant subset of the consonants in Phuthi are 'depressors' (or 'breathy voiced'). These consonants are so named because they have a consistent depression effect on the pitch of an immediately successive H (high) tone. In addition, these consonants produce complex non-local phonological tone-depression effects. Swati and Phuthi have similar properties in this respect, except that the parameters of the Phuthi depression effects are significantly more complex than those documented thus far for Swati.\n\nSignificantly complex tone/voice interactions have been identified in Phuthi. This phenomenon results in what is analysed at one level as massive and sustained violations of locality requirements on a H tone domain arising from a single H tone source, e.g. surface configurations of the type HLH (in fact H L* H) are possible where all H syllables emanate from a single underlying H source, given at least one L syllable being depressed. Such tone/voice configurations lead to grave problems for any theoretical phonology that seeks to be maximally constrained in its architecture and operations.\n\nThe last two phenomena are non-tonal suprasegmental properties which each take on an additional morphological function in Phuthi:\n\nThe vocalic property breathy voice/depression is separated from the set of consonants that typically induce it, and is used grammatically in the morphological copulative – similar to the Swati copula – and elsewhere in the grammar too (e.g. in associative prefixes formed from 'weak' class noun prefixes 1,3,4,6,9).\n\nVery simply, examples 3 to 11 contain typical Bantu object-noun/object-pronoun agreement.\n\nA Phuthi orthography has not yet been standardised. Donnelly (1999, 2007) uses a proposed alphabet based uncontroversially on that of other Nguni and Sesotho languages:\n\nThere are two superclose vowels, also found in the Sesotho languages. In the Phuthi orthography they are indicated with a circumflex diacritic, thus:\n\nThe following Phuthi consonant and vowel graphs have the same values they receive in Xhosa , in Swati , and in Sesotho .\nSymbols in parentheses are allophones of .\nMost (non-labial) consonants can also occur with a secondary labial glide articulation , e.g. as , so also .\n\n is dental; is palatal; is lateral.\n\nThe Phuthi noun (as everywhere in Bantu) consists of two essential parts: the prefix and the stem. Nouns can be grouped into noun classes according to prefix, which are numbered consecutively according to the pan-Bantu system established by Meinhof and modified by Doke. The following table gives an overview of Phuthi noun classes, arranged according to singular-plural pairs.\n\n\nVerbs use the following affixes for the subject and the object:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279789", "title": "Wine table", "text": "Wine table\n\nA Wine-table is a late 15th-century device for facilitating after-dinner drinking, the cabinetmakers called it a \"Gentleman's Social Table.\" It was always narrow and of semicircular or horseshoe form, and the guests sat round the outer circumference. In the earlier and simpler shapes metal wells for bottles and ice were sunk in the surface of the table; they were fitted with brass lids.\n\nIn later and more elaborate examples the tables were fitted with a revolving wine-carriage, bottle-holder or tray working upon a balanced arm which enabled the bottles to be passed to any guest without shaking. The side opposite the guests was often fitted with a network bag. It has been conjectured that this bag was intended to hold biscuits, but it is much more likely that its function was to prevent glasses and bottles which might be upset from falling to the floor. That the wine-table might be drawn up to the fire in cold weather without inconvenience from the heat it was fitted with curtains hung upon a brass frame and running upon rings. Sometimes the table was accompanied by a circular bottle-stand supported on a tripod into which the bottles were deeply sunk to preserve them from the heat of the fire. Yet another form was circular with a socket in the center for the bottle. Wine-tables followed the fashion of other tables and were often inlaid with wood or brass. They are now exceedingly scarce.\n"}
{"id": "2279791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279791", "title": "Bellange", "text": "Bellange\n\nBellange and Bellangé are French surnames. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279792", "title": "Gerd Theissen", "text": "Gerd Theissen\n\nGerd Theißen (or Theissen; born 24 April 1943) is a German Protestant theologian and New Testament scholar. He is Professor of New Testament Theology at the University of Heidelberg.\n\nTheissen obtained his doctorate in theology in Protestant theology from the University of Bonn in 1968. He then took a position studying Evangelical Theology at the University of Bonn. He obtained his habilitation in 1972 in Bonn, with a form-critical work on early Christian miracle stories.\n\nHe was a lecturer at the University of Bonn from 1973 to 1978. In 1978, he became professor at the University of Copenhagen. Since 1980 he has been a professor at the University of Heidelberg. From 2007 to September 2009 he was secretary of the Philosophical class of the Heidelberg Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 2002, he was awarded the Burkitt Medal by the British Academy. It is granted 'in recognition of special service to Biblical Studies'.\n\nTheissen is married to psychotherapist Dr. Christa Schaible. They have two children.\n\nHis \"Sociology of early Palestinian Christianity\" (1978) is useful for interpreting intertestamental literature.\n\nTheissen received the Burkitt Medal for Biblical Studies in 2002 from The British Academy. According to the British Academy's citation, Theissen is:\n\n\"... one of the earliest pioneers in the application of the principles and methods of sociology to the study of the New Testament. Notable works in this field are \"The First Followers of Jesus: A Sociological Analysis of the Earliest Christians\" (which concentrated on conditions in Palestine) and \"The Social Setting of Primitive Christianity\" (a Pauline study dealing mainly with Corinth).\"\n\nthe citation goes on to say that\n\nHis works are translated into more than ten languages, both European and Asian languages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279794", "title": "Transverse abdominal muscle", "text": "Transverse abdominal muscle\n\nThe transverse abdominal muscle (TVA), also known as the transverse abdominis, transversalis muscle and transversus abdominis muscle, is a muscle layer of the anterior and lateral (front and side) abdominal wall which is deep to (layered below) the internal oblique muscle. It is thought by most fitness instructors to be a significant component of the core.\n\nThe transverse abdominal, so called for the direction of its fibers, is the innermost of the flat muscles of the abdomen, being placed immediately beneath the internal oblique muscle.\n\nThe transverse abdominal arises as fleshy fibers, from the lateral third of the inguinal ligament, from the anterior three-fourths of the inner lip of the iliac crest, from the inner surfaces of the cartilages of the lower six ribs, interdigitating with the diaphragm, and from the thoracolumbar fascia. It ends anteriorly in a broad aponeurosis (the Spigelian fascia), the lower fibers of which curve inferomedially (medially and downward), and are inserted, together with those of the internal oblique muscle, into the crest of the pubis and pectineal line, forming the inguinal conjoint tendon also called the aponeurotic falx. In layman's terms, the muscle ends in the middle line of a person's abdomen.\n\nThroughout the rest of its extent the aponeurosis passes horizontally to the middle line, and is inserted into the linea alba; its upper three-fourths lie behind the rectus muscle and blend with the posterior lamella of the aponeurosis of the internal oblique; its lower fourth is in front of the rectus abdominis.\n\nThe transverse abdominal is innervated by the lower intercostal nerves (thoracoabdominal, nerve roots T7-T11), as well as the iliohypogastric nerve and the ilioinguinal nerve.\n\nThe transverse abdominal helps to compress the ribs and viscera, providing thoracic and pelvic stability. This is explained further here. The transverse abdominal also helps a pregnant woman to deliver her child.\n\nWithout a stable spine, one aided by proper contraction of the TVA, the nervous system fails to recruit the muscles in the extremities efficiently, and functional movements cannot be properly performed. The transverse abdominal and the segmental stabilizers (e.g. the multifidi) of the spine have evolved to work in tandem.\n\nWhile it is true that the TVA is vital to back and core health, the muscle also has the effect of pulling in what would otherwise be a protruding abdomen (hence its nickname, the “corset muscle”). Training the rectus abdominis muscles alone will not and can not give one a \"flat\" belly; this effect is achieved only through training the TVA. Thus to the extent that traditional abdominal exercises (e.g. crunches) or more advanced abdominal exercises tend to \"flatten\" the belly, this is owed to the tangential training of the TVA inherent in such exercises. Recently the transverse abdominal has become the subject of debate between Biokineticists, kinesiologists, strength trainers, and physical therapists. The two positions on the muscle are (1) that the muscle is effective and capable of bracing the human core during extremely heavy lifts and (2) that it is not. Specifically, one recent systematic review has found that the baseline dysfunction of TVA cannot predict the clinical outcomes of low back pain. Similarly, another systematic review has revealed that the changes in TVA function or morphology after different nonsurgical treatments are unrelated to the improvement of pain intensity or low back pain related-disability. These findings have challenged the traditional emphasis of using TVA-targeted intervention to treat low back pain.\n\nThe most well known method of strengthening the TVA is the vacuum exercise. The TVA also (involuntarily) contracts during many lifts; it is the body's natural weight-lifting belt, stabilizing the spine and pelvis during lifting movements. It has been estimated that the contraction of the TVA and other muscles reduces the vertical pressure on the intervertebral discs by as much as 40%. Failure to engage the TVA during higher intensity lifts is dangerous and encourages injury to the spine. The TVA acts as a girdle or corset by creating hoop tension around the midsection.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279795", "title": "Tourism in Gyeongju", "text": "Tourism in Gyeongju\n\nTourism in Gyeongju is a major industry and defining feature of Gyeongju, South Korea. Gyeongju is a major cultural site and tourist destination for South Koreans and foreigners with about 8 to 9 million visitors annually. A great deal of this is due to the city's status as a center of Silla heritage, derived from its former role as the capital of that ancient kingdom.\n\nMany Silla sites are included in Gyeongju National Park. In addition, the Gyeongju National Museum hosts many artifacts from the Silla kingdom which have been excavated from sites within the city and surrounding areas, including several royal crowns and other national treasures.\n\nSome of Gyeongju's most famous sites relate to the Silla government's patronage of Buddhism. The grotto of Seokguram and the temple of Bulguksa were the first Korean sites to be included on the UNESCO World Heritage List, in 1995. In addition, the ruins of the old Hwangnyongsa temple, said to have been Korean's largest, are preserved on the slopes of Toham Mountain. Various Silla-era stone carvings of Buddhas and bodhisattvas are found on mountainsides throughout the city, particularly on Namsan.\n\nThe Gyerim, or \"Chicken Forest,\" adjoins the Royal Tomb Complex in central Gyeongju. So does the Anapji pond, the Poseokjeong garden site, and the Cheomseongdae observatory. Each site is deeply woven into the legends and history of the Silla period.\n\nA number of fortresses from the Silla period have been preserved. These include the Wolseong and Myeonghwal fortresses in the downtown area, and the Bu Mountain Fortress in Geoncheon-eup.\n\nThe tombs of the rulers of Silla are all located within the boundaries of Gyeongju. The identity of the ruler is known in many cases, particularly for the later rulers. However, many of the older tombs found in the Royal Tombs Complex cannot be conclusively tied to any ruler. Partly for this reason, many of the tombs are known by the names of notable artifacts excavated there. One example of this is the Heavenly Horse Tomb, where a mudflap bearing a celestial horse motif was found.\n\nNot all of the Silla-era tombs are royal. The tomb of the general Kim Yu-sin is located on one of the low mountains surrounding Gyeongju Basin.\n\nA notable tomb outside the usual historical precincts of Gyeongju is that of King Munmu, d. 681, who was buried at sea just off the coast of Yangbuk-myeon. Munmu, the first king of Unified Silla, instructed that he should be buried there so that he could become a dragon and protect the Silla coastline.\n\nAlthough Gyeongju no longer played a particularly central role during the Joseon Dynasty, a number of relics from that period have been preserved alongside the Silla sites. A few seowon, Confucian private schools which dotted the Korean countryside during the Joseon Dynasty, have been preserved. Seoak seowon is situated in the downtown area, and Oksan Seowon is preserved in Angang-eup. In Gangdong-myeon, a folk village keeps up the appearances of the late Joseon period. Adjacent to the Royal Tombs Complex in downtown Gyeongju, the houses of the Gyodong neighborhood also keep the hanok form they had in Joseon times. There are also important architecture built in the Joseon Dynasty. Gyeongju Seokbinggo is a \"seokbinggo\" or ice house located in the neighborhood of Inwang-dong, Gyeongju, North Gyeongsang province, South Korea. It was originally built in the Wolseong Fortress in 1738, the 14th year of King Yeongju. The Gyeongju Seokbinggo has been designated as the 66th Treasure of South Korea and managed by the Department of Culture and Tourism of the Gyeongju City.\n\nGyodong includes the main house of the Gyeongju Choi clan, which is also a famed brewery of beopju.\n\nA significant portion of Gyeongju's tourist traffic is due to the city's successful promotion of itself as a site for various festivals, conferences, and competitions.\n\nEvery year since 1962 a Silla Cultural Festival (신라문화제) has been held in October to celebrate and honour the dynasty's history and culture. It is one of the major festivals of Korea. It features athletic events, folk games, music, dance, literary contests and Buddhist religious ceremonies. Other festivals include the Cherry Blossom Marathon in April, the Korean Traditional Drink and Rice Cake Festival in March, and memorial ceremonies for the founders of the Silla Dynasty and General Kim Yu-sin.\n\nThe area surrounding the Bomun Lake reservoir, 6 km east of central Gyeongju, has been transformed into a resort area. A theme park named Gyeongju World is located on the reservoir's western shore, as is the Seonjae Art Gallery and the Bomun Outdoor Performance Hall. The Gyeongju World Culture Expo is held every 2–3 years in at Expo Park just south of the lake. Many of the city's principal hotels are also located in this area. Other resorts and hotels are found throughout the city.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279799", "title": "(The) Rock and Roll Waltz", "text": "(The) Rock and Roll Waltz\n\n\"(The) Rock and Roll Waltz\" is a popular song with music by Shorty Allen and lyrics by Roy Alfred in 1955, although the identity of the lyricist is in dispute. Other sources cite a Dick Ware, Dick Wise, or Dick Wine.\n\nAs the title suggests this novelty song is a waltz in triple metre, but it also contains a bass riff that is reminiscent of typical boogie woogie and rock and roll riffs.\n\nThe song is told from the point of view of a teenager who comes home early from a date, and catches her parents attempting to dance to one of her rock and roll records; only, having no frame of reference, the couple tries to waltz to the music.\n\nThe Kay Starr recording of the song, made in 1955, reached number one on the \"Billboard\" singles chart in 1956, staying there for six weeks. The recording was released by RCA Victor as catalog number 47-6359. It was Kay Starr's first recording of great significance for RCA Victor after leaving Capitol Records. She had a number of lesser chart entries on RCA in 1955, including \"Good and Lonesome\" and \"Turn Right\". She thought it was a joke when the A&R staff at RCA Victor picked it for her; it was so different from what she was used to recording. It was a No. 1 hit, a million seller, and one of the early songs of the rock and roll era.\n\nThe track also spent one week at No. 1 in the UK Singles Chart in March 1956.\n\nOther artists who recorded this song include Ann-Margret (in 1962), Annette Funicello (in 1961), Lawrence Welk and His Champagne Music with Alice Lon on vocals (in 1956, Coral EC 81128), and George Wright in his 1984 album \"Red Hot and Blue\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2279802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279802", "title": "Window seat (type of sofa)", "text": "Window seat (type of sofa)\n\nA window seat is a miniature sofa without a back, intended to fill the recess of a window. In the latter part of the 18th century, when tall narrow sash windows were almost universal, the window seat was in high favor, and was no doubt in keeping with the formalism of Georgian interiors. It differed much in decorative detail, but little in form. It stood as high from the floor as a chair; the two ends were identical, with a roll-over curve, more or less pronounced. The seats and ends were usually upholstered in rich fabrics which in many cases have remained intact. The legs followed the fashion in chairs and were square and tapered, or, somewhat later, round and reeded. Hepplewhite and the brothers Adam designed many graceful window seats, but they were produced by all the cabinet-makers of the period.\n"}
{"id": "2279805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279805", "title": "Richard Ely", "text": "Richard Ely\n\nRichard Ely may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2279815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279815", "title": "Henry Roth", "text": "Henry Roth\n\nHenry Roth (February 8, 1906 – October 13, 1995) was an American novelist and short story writer.\n\nRoth was born in Tysmenitz near Stanislawow, Galicia, Austro-Hungary (now known as Tysmenytsia, near Ivano-Frankivsk, Galicia, Ukraine). Although his parents never agreed on the exact date of his arrival in the United States, it is most likely that he landed at Ellis Island and began his life in New York in 1908. He briefly lived in Brooklyn, and then on the Lower East Side, in the slums where his classic novel \"Call It Sleep\" is set. In 1914, the family moved to Harlem. Roth lived there until 1927, when, as a senior at City College of New York, he moved in with Eda Lou Walton, a poet and New York University instructor who lived on Morton Street in Greenwich Village. With Walton's support, he began \"Call It Sleep\" in about 1930, and completed the novel in the spring of 1934, publishing in December 1934, to mixed reviews. In the 1960s, Roth's \"Call It Sleep\" underwent a critical reappraisal after being republished in 1964. With 1,000,000 copies sold, and many weeks on the New York Times bestseller list, the novel was hailed as an overlooked Depression-era masterpiece and classic novel of immigration. Today, it is widely regarded as a masterpiece of Jewish American literature.\n\nAfter the book's publication, Roth began a second novel that was contracted with editor Maxwell Perkins, of Scribner's. But Roth's growing ideological frustration and personal confusion created a profound writer's block, which lasted until 1979, when he began the earliest drafts of \"Mercy of a Rude Stream\" (although material written much earlier than 1979 was also incorporated into this later work). In 1938, during an unproductive sojourn at the artists' colony Yaddo in Saratoga Springs, New York, Roth met Muriel Parker, a pianist and composer; much of this period is depicted in Roth's final work, \"An American Type.\" Roth severed his relationship with Walton, moved out of her apartment, and married Parker in 1939, to the disapproval of her family. With the onset of World War II, Roth became a tool and gauge maker. The couple moved first to Boston with their two young sons, Jeremy and Hugh, and then in 1946 to Maine. There Roth worked as a woodsman, a schoolteacher, a psychiatric attendant in the state mental hospital, a waterfowl farmer, and a Latin and math tutor.\n\nArthur Hertzberg credited editor Harold U. Ribalow with \"rediscovering\" Roth. Ribelow found him on a farm in Maine and persuaded him to permit a new edition of the novel. Ribalow wrote an introduction to the new edition, which was published by Pageant Books in 1960. Many years later, after Ribalow had died and Roth was awarded the Ribalow Prize, he wrote to Ribalow's son, Meir Z. Ribalow, \"Thanks for the encomia. Things like that keep me alive, I'm sure: what little is left me capable of feeling swells with pride like the staves of an old barrel when filled. Harold, to whom I owe so much, would have been happy to witness the occasion.\"\n\nIn fact, Roth did not initially welcome the success of the 1964 reprint of \"Call It Sleep\", valuing his privacy instead. However, his writing block slowly began to break. In 1968, after Muriel's retirement from the Maine state school system, the couple moved to a trailer home in Albuquerque, New Mexico, near where Roth had stayed as writer-in-residence at the D. H. Lawrence ranch outside of Taos. Muriel began composing music again, while Roth collaborated with his friend and Italian translator, Mario Materassi, to put out a collection of essays called \"Shifting Landscape\", published by the Jewish Publication Society in 1987. After Muriel's death in 1990, Roth moved into a ramshackle former funeral parlor and occupied himself with revising the final volumes of his monumental work, \"Mercy of a Rude Stream\". It has been alleged that the incestuous relationships between the protagonist, a sister, and a cousin in \"Mercy of a Rude Stream\" are based on Roth's life. Roth's own sister denied that such events occurred.\n\nRoth failed to garner the acclaim some say he deserves, perhaps because after the publication of \"Call It Sleep\" he failed to produce another novel for sixty years. Roth attributed his massive writer's block to personal problems such as depression, and to political conflicts, including his disillusion with Communism. At other times he cited his early break with Judaism and his obsessive sexual preoccupations as probable causes. Roth died in Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States in 1995.\n\nThe character E. I. Lonoff in Philip Roth's \"Zuckerman\" novels (\"The Ghost Writer\" and \"Exit Ghost\" in this case), is a composite of Roth, Bernard Malamud and fictional elements.\n\nPublished in 1934, \"Call It Sleep\" centers on the turbulent experiences of a young boy, David Schearl, growing up in the Jewish immigrant slum of New York's Lower East Side in the early twentieth century.\n\n\"Mercy of a Rude Stream\" is a monumental epic published in four volumes. It follows protagonist Ira Stigman from his family's arrival in Jewish-Irish Harlem in 1914 to the night before Thanksgiving in 1927, when Ira decides to leave the family tenement and move in with Edith Welles. According to critic David Mehegan, Roth's \"Mercy\" represents a \"landmark of the American literary century\".\n\nThe first volume, \"A Star Shines over Mt. Morris Park\" was published in 1994 by St. Martin's Press and the second volume, called \"A Diving Rock on the Hudson\", appeared from St. Martin's in 1995. \"From Bondage\", which appeared in hardcover in 1996, was the first volume of the four \"Mercy\" books to appear posthumously. \"Requiem for Harlem\", the fourth and final volume, appeared in 1998. Roth was able to revise both the third and fourth volumes in 1994 and 1995 with the help of his assistant, Felicia Steele, shortly before his death.\n\nBefore his death, Roth commented numerous times that \"Mercy of a Rude Stream\" comprised six volumes. In fact, Roth did write six separate books. He called the first four \"Batch One,\" and the last two, \"Batch Two.\" Roth's editor at St. Martin's, Robert Weil, along with Felicia Steele, Larry Fox, and Roth's agent, Roslyn Targ, found the epic would be best served in four volumes, as the four books of \"Batch One\" contained a stylistic and thematic unity inconsistent with the remaining two books.\n\nExplaining the difference between \"Mercy of a Rude Stream\" and \"Call It Sleep,\" critic Mario Materassi, Roth's longtime friend, argues that \"\"Call It Sleep\" can be read as a vehicle through which, soon after breaking away from his family and his tradition, young Roth used some of the fragments of his childhood to shore up the ruins of what he already felt was a disconnected self. Forty-five years later, Roth embarked on another attempt to bring some retrospective order to his life's confusion: \"Mercy of a Rude Stream,\" which he has long called a 'continuum,' can be read as a final, monumental effort on the part of the elderly author to come to terms with the pattern of rupture and discontinuity that has marked his life\".\n\nRoth's final novel, \"An American Type\", emerged from \"Batch 2,\" which Roth wrote during the late 1980s and early 1990s. With his assistant's help, Roth produced 1,900 typed pages of scenes beginning where \"Mercy\" left off and continuing through 1990. The manuscript of \"Batch 2\" remained untouched for over a decade until Weil sent it to The New Yorker, which published two excerpts from \"Batch 2\" in the summer of 2006 under the titles \"God the Novelist\" and \"Freight.\" At The New Yorker the book came into the hands of Willing Davidson, then a young assistant in the magazine's fiction department. At the suggestion of Weil and Roth's literary executor, Lawrence Fox, Davidson edited \"Batch 2\" into \"An American Type\", which was published by W.W. Norton in 2010.\n\nBoth a love story and a lamentation, the novel opens in 1938, and reintroduces us to Ira Stigman of the Mercy cycle, a thirty-two-year-old \"slum-born Yiddle\" eager to assimilate but traumatized by his impoverished immigrant past. Restless with his lover and literary mentor, English professor Edith Welles, Ira journeys to Yaddo, where he meets M (who only appeared in the old man's reveries in the Mercy series), a blond, aristocratic pianist whose \"calm, Anglo-Saxon radiance\" engages him.\n\nThe ensuing romantic crisis, as well as the conflict between his ghetto Jewish roots and the bourgeois comforts of Manhattan, forces Ira to abandon his paramour's Greenwich Village apartment and set out with an illiterate, boorish Communist on a quest for the promise of the American West. But feeling like a total failure in LA, Ira begins an epic journey home, thumbing rides from truckers and riding the rails with hobos through the Dust Bowl. Ira only knows that he must return to M, the woman he truly loves.\n\nSixty-five pages of excerpts from Batch Two consisting of short journal entries appeared in the journal, \"Fiction\", Number 57, in 2011. The majority of these pages are about Roth's move to Maine, afraid that his associations with the Communist Party would haunt him at his factory job in Massachusetts. Purchasing a small farm, and surrounded by Yankee neighbors, Roth questions his identity as a Jew and struggles to wrest a living out of a Maine countryside where the soil is so hard that he has to dynamite in order to lay pipe deep enough to avoid the winter freezes. The extreme cold that he and his family endured, his work logging, bargaining over antiques and livestock with neighbors, and the world of backwoods and village America form the principal and unlikely drama of these pages. There is also return to the tense, incestuous world of the Roth family in Henry's childhood in the last of these extracts.\n\nHenry Roth's writing centers on immigrant experience, particularly a Jewish-American experience in Depression-era America. He has also been hailed as a chronicler of New York city life.\n\nRoth's work reveals an obsession with cultural depravity: the internal dislocation of the intellectual and of society at large that features so prominently in the work of the greatest Modernist writers. Indeed, Roth often fixates on human depravity in a multitude of forms. Sexually abhorrent acts such as incest, infidelity, and predation, for instance, inform much of his work. As does a more general climate of violence or abuse, often both inflicted on others and masochistically turned inwards.\n\nThroughout his life, Roth simultaneously embraced and rejected the notion of a forgiving God, and this ambivalence is also registered in his writing. Mario Materassi suggests, in \"Shifting Urbanscape: Roth's 'Private' New York\" that Roth \"has never been interested in any story other than the anguished one of a man who, throughout his life, has contradicted each of his previously held positions and beliefs.\"\n\nWhile Roth's works are generally tragic, and often relentlessly so, his later work holds out for the possibility of redemption, or of mercy in a rude stream. This notion is especially evident in \"An American Type\" where the love between Ira and M becomes a means of transcendence.\n\nWhile still alive, Roth received two honorary doctorates, one from the University of New Mexico and one from the Hebrew Union College–Jewish Institute of Religion. Posthumously, he was honored in 1995 with the Hadassah Harold Ribalow Lifetime Achievement Award and by the Museum of the City of New York with Manhattan Borough President Ruth Messinger having named February 29, 1996, as \"Henry Roth Day\" in New York City. \"From Bondage\" was cited by the National Book Critics Circle as being a finalist for its Fiction Prize in 1997, and it was in that same year that Henry Roth won the first Isaac Bashevis Singer Prize in Literature for \"From Bondage\", an award put out by The Forward Foundation. In 2005, ten years after Roth's death, the first full biography of his life, the prize-winning \"Redemption: The Life of Henry Roth\", by literary scholar Steven G. Kellman, was published, followed in 2006 by Henry Roth's centenary, which was marked by a literary tribute at the New York Public Library, sponsored by CCNY and organized by Lawrence I. Fox, Roth's literary executor.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279816", "title": "Window cornice", "text": "Window cornice\n\nA window cornice is an ornamental framework of wood or composition to which window curtains are attached by rods with rings or hooks. Cornices are often gilded and of elaborate design, but they are less fashionable today than before it had been discovered that elaborate draperies harbor dust and microbes.\n\nLike other pieces of furniture, they have reflected taste as it passed, and many of the carefully constructed examples of the latter part of the 18th century are still in use in the rooms for which they were made. Chippendale provided a famous series still \"in situ\" for the gallery at Harewood House, the valances of which are, like the cornices themselves, of carved and painted wood.\n"}
{"id": "2279822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279822", "title": "John Kannenberg", "text": "John Kannenberg\n\nJohn Kannenberg (Milwaukee, WI) is a multimedia artist, curator, writer, and researcher who creates quietly reflective work that investigates the sonic geography of museums and archives, the psychology of collection, the processes of making and observing art, and the human experience of time. His art practice emphasises process, creating and breaking rules for the work's realisation in ways that blur the boundaries between intention and accident. Since 2015, Kannenberg has been Director and Chief Curator of The Museum of Portable Sound, a hand-held museum of curated sounds currently accessible to visitors in the greater London area.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279825", "title": "RFA Scotol", "text": "RFA Scotol\n\nRFA \"Scotol\" was a 1000-ton class tanker of the British Royal Fleet Auxiliary.\n\nThe ship was built by the Tyne Iron Shipbuilding Co. Ltd., at Willington Quay, Howdon, Northumberland, and launched on 23 June 1916. First used as a Port Oiler at Dover, and then stationed at Portland until August 1947, the ship was sold to Hemsley Bell Ltd (H.L.R. Bell, Managers) Southampton on 21 April 1948 and renamed \"Hemsley I\".\n\nThe ship ran aground and was wrecked at Fox Cove on 12 May 1969 off Porthcothan, Cornwall, en route from Liverpool to the breakers at Antwerp.\n"}
{"id": "2279827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279827", "title": "Francis Jeffers", "text": "Francis Jeffers\n\nFrancis Jeffers (born 25 January 1981) is an English former professional footballer and coach who played as a striker.\n\nIn his career, Jeffers played for Premier League clubs Everton, Arsenal, Charlton Athletic and Blackburn Rovers, as well as clubs in Australia, Scotland and Malta. Jeffers is the joint top scorer for the England under-21 team with 13 goals in 16 appearances. He is a footballing coach at Everton's Academy.\n\nJeffers was born in Liverpool, Merseyside and attended De La Salle School.\n\nJeffers began his career at Everton, making his first-team debut as a half-time substitute for Dave Watson on 26 December 1997 at Old Trafford at the age of 16 years. Jeffers won the FA Youth Cup of 1997–98 against Blackburn Rovers with Everton. He scored 6 goals in 28 matches for Everton in the 1999–2000 season.\n\nJeffers started the 2000–01 season brightly, but his season was cut short with multiple ankle and shoulder injuries. When he did feature, he performed well, and his goal to game ratio was the best at the club that season. This earned Jeffers a new contract offer from the club. However, after months of negotiations, Jeffers informed the club he was rejecting the new contract.\n\nHis performances had caught the eye of Arsène Wenger, and Jeffers signed for Arsenal on 14 June 2001 for an initial £8 million fee, with another £2 million dependent on appearances. However, Jeffers did not live up to the \"fox in the box\" tag, and his time at Arsenal was dogged by injury. He was forced out of the team by the form of fellow strikers like Thierry Henry and Sylvain Wiltord. Arsenal won the FA Cup in 2002 and 2003 but Jeffers was left out of both match day squads, the latter due to injury. He contributed to their 2003 triumph by scoring three goals en route to the final; two against Farnborough and one against Chelsea. He also started the semi-final against Sheffield United. Arsenal also won the 2001–02 Premier League title, but Jeffers only made six league appearances that season. He was an unused substitute on the day Arsenal clinched the title against Manchester United at Old Trafford. His final appearance for Arsenal came in the 2003 FA Community Shield, coming on as a substitute but then getting sent off against Manchester United.\n\nOn 1 September 2003, Jeffers rejoined Everton on loan for 2003–04. He only scored twice (with both goals coming against Fulham in the FA Cup; once in the original tie and again in the replay) in 22 appearances for his team, before falling out with manager David Moyes and prematurely returning to London. He signed for Arsenal's Premier League rivals Charlton Athletic on 10 August 2004 on a two-year contract for a £2.6 million fee. In 2004–05, he scored 5 goals in 24 appearances. He joined Rangers on loan on 31 August 2005 for six months but returned in December after his performances in the Scottish Premier League failed to live up to expectations. Charlton released Jeffers at the end of the 2005–06 season.\n\nJeffers signed for Blackburn Rovers in June 2006 on a two-year contract. He scored his first and only Blackburn goal in the UEFA Cup against Basel. He found his chances limited by the form of Benni McCarthy and Shabani Nonda.\n\nHe joined Championship team Ipswich Town on a one-month loan deal in March 2007, scoring his first goal for Ipswich on his full debut away at Hull City and receiving the man of the match award. Ipswich went on to win 5–2. He returned to Blackburn after suffering a hamstring injury against Southend United, but having made a quick recovery, he was allowed to return to Ipswich on loan until the end of the 2006–07 season.\n\nIpswich had tried to negotiate a permanent move for Jeffers but after having two bids rejected, Ipswich chairman David Sheepshanks accused Blackburn of holding his club to ransom. Ipswich did, however, make a third and final bid for Jeffers but personal terms could not be agreed.\n\nOn 9 August 2007, he joined Sheffield Wednesday on a three-year contract for an undisclosed fee. Jeffers made his debut in an opening-day 4–1 defeat at Ipswich Town. He sustained an injury which kept him out of action for all but 20 minutes of the first month of the 2007–08 season.\n\nAfter a lively start against Stoke City on 20 October 2007, Jeffers was on the end of a tackle from Ryan Shawcross and was stretchered off with ankle ligament damage. He was out for roughly seven weeks. Jeffers came back as a substitute on 10 December 2007 versus Hull City, but ended up on the losing team after a 1–0 loss. Just 48 hours later, Jeffers played at Hillsborough for the first time in two months, and not only played for 45 minutes of the match, but also scored the winning goal after 82 minutes from the penalty spot. This was Jeffers' second goal for Wednesday.\n\nIn the summer of 2008, Jeffers had more problems with his ankle and also picked up a groin injury, leaving him injured until September 2008. He returned to first-team action with a 25-minute substitute appearance in a 6–0 defeat at Reading in mid September 2008 and then a further ten minutes against his former club Ipswich Town. Jeffers scored his third goal for the Wednesday on 17 January 2009 in a 4–1 win over Charlton at Hillsborough, but was sent off in the next match against Nottingham Forest.\n\nOn 25 August 2009, Jeffers was sent off for headbutting Port Vale player Tommy Fraser during the 2–0 League Cup defeat. Manager Brian Laws considered his behaviour unacceptable, fined the player the maximum permissible amount and placed him on the transfer list.\n\nJeffers was released by Wednesday on 3 May 2010 after the club's relegation was confirmed to League One. After being released by Wednesday, Jeffers had a trial at newly promoted Blackpool. Ian Holloway wanted to give Jeffers a chance to prove himself but the trial proved to be unsuccessful and he was released. He then returned to Everton, but only to join in with training at Finch Farm in a bid to keep his fitness levels up.\n\nAfter unsuccessful trials at Blackpool and Everton, Jeffers agreed to trial with Australian A-League club Newcastle Jets. On 29 October 2010, he signed a 10-match guest contract with the club. He made his debut for the club on 13 November 2010, helping Newcastle to a 3–1 victory over Adelaide United.\n\nHe scored his first goal on 8 December 2010 against the Melbourne Heart. Although Newcastle and Jeffers were both keen on extending his contract, they failed to come to an agreement and Jeffers left the club after making a positive impact.\n\nIn February 2011, Jeffers joined Scottish Premier League club Motherwell. He made his debut coming on as a second-half substitute for John Sutton in the 6–0 defeat to former club Rangers. His first goal for Motherwell came against Aberdeen on 15 February 2011. Jeffers also scored the third goal in a 3–0 win against Dundee United in the Scottish Cup quarter-final replay. He was part of the squad that reached the 2011 Scottish Cup Final, in which Motherwell finished runners up. Jeffers was released by Motherwell on 1 June 2011.\n\nOn 20 October 2011, he signed a one-year contract with A-League club Newcastle Jets, marking his return to the club he had played for during the 2010–11 A-League season. Jeffers scored 4 goals in 25 appearances for the A-League club. Subsequently, Newcastle Jets decided not to renew Jeffers' contract making him a free agent.\n\nOn 12 October 2012, Jeffers signed for 25-time Maltese Premier League winners Floriana. After only two appearances and one goal, Jeffers left the club. Jeffers was then involved in a minor Twitter scandal as a fake Twitter account posing to be Jeffers claimed that the Maltese League was the worst he had ever played in.\n\nOn 8 March 2013, Jeffers signed for League Two club Accrington Stanley until the end of the season. On 9 March 2013, Jeffers made his Accrington debut as a second-half substitute away to Northampton Town. On 20 March 2013, Jeffers scored his first two Accrington Stanley goals in a 4–0 win at home to AFC Wimbledon. He was released by Accrington at the end of the season, and had trials with Bury, Brunei DPMM of the S.League, and Chester, but none chose to sign him.\n\nJeffers has one cap for England national team, scoring a consolation goal in a defeat by Australia in a friendly on 12 February 2003. Jeffers is the joint top scorer for England under-21s with 13 goals from 16 appearances, a record he shares with Alan Shearer. He was previously capped by the schools, under-15 and under-16 teams.\n\nUnable to find a new club after his playing contract with Accrington Stanley had expired, Jeffers began working for Everton's academy on a voluntary basis in 2014. He formally joined the coaching team in October 2016.\n\nIn October 2019 Jeffers admitted sending menacing messages to his wife of 10 years after their relationship broke down.\n\nEverton\n\nArsenal\n\nMotherwell\n"}
{"id": "2279831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279831", "title": "Gold Creek (Montana)", "text": "Gold Creek (Montana)\n\nGold Creek is a creek in southwestern Montana, United States, on Interstate 90 northwest of Garrison, between Butte and Missoula. It flows through parts of Granite County and Powell County and empties into the Clark Fork (river) at the ghost town of Goldcreek , northwest of the town of Garrison.\n\nIn 1852, a trapper named Francois Finlay, who was also known as Benetsee, found the first recorded gold in what is now Montana in what he named Benetsee Creek. However, not enough gold was found to make mining commercially viable.\n\nIn 1858, prospectors James and Granville Stuart and Reese Anderson discovered gold in the creek. The three men didn't have sufficient tools to begin excavating, and were unable to return with the proper equipment until 1862. The creek was renamed \"Gold Creek\" because of the gold found there. The Stuart brothers and their prospecting party helped open up Western Montana to settlers, all due to their initial find at Gold Creek.\n\nGold Creek is near where the last spike of the Northern Pacific Railway was driven on September 8, 1883.\n"}
{"id": "2279837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279837", "title": "Charles Whittingham", "text": "Charles Whittingham\n\nCharles Whittingham (16 June 1767 – 5 January 1840) was an English printer.\n\nHe was born at Caludon or Calledon, Warwickshire, the son of a farmer, and was apprenticed to a Coventry printer and bookseller. In 1789 he set up a small printing press in a garret off Fleet Street, London, with a loan obtained from the typefounding firm of William Caslon, and, by 1797, his business had so increased that he was enabled to move into larger premises.\n\nAn edition of Gray's \"Poems\", printed by him in 1799, secured him the patronage of all the leading publishers. Whittingham inaugurated the idea of printing cheap, handy editions of standard authors, and, on the bookselling trade threatening not to sell his productions, took a room at a coffee house and sold them by auction himself.\n\nIn 1809, he started a paper-pulp factory at Chiswick, near London, and in 1811 founded the Chiswick Press. From 1810 to 1815 he devoted his chief attention to illustrated books and is credited with having been the first to use proper overlays in printing woodcuts, as he was the first to print a fine, or \"Indian Paper\" edition. He was one of the first to use a steam engine in a pulp mill, but his presses he preferred to have worked by hand. He died at Chiswick.\n\nHis nephew Charles Whittingham (1795–1876), who from 1824 to 1828 had been in partnership with his uncle, in 1838 assumed control of the business. He already had printing works at Took's Court, Chancery Lane, London, and had printed various notable books, especially devoting himself to the introduction of ornamental initial letters, and the artistic arrangement of the printed page. The imprint of the Chiswick press was now placed on the productions of the Took's Court as well as of the Chiswick works, and in 1852 the whole business was removed to London. Under the management of the younger Whittingham, the Chiswick Press achieved a considerable reputation. He died on 21 April 1876.\n"}
{"id": "2279851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279851", "title": "David Parer", "text": "David Parer\n\nDavid Parer is an award-winning Australian natural history film maker.\n\nParer was conscripted into the Australian Army to go to the Vietnam War in 1970, but he entered a Masters program to study physics in the Antarctic. Parer spent the summers of 1970 and 1972 in Antarctica studying cosmic rays at Mawson Base. While there he filmed his first documentary. David subsequently joined the Australian Broadcasting Corporation ABC Natural History Unit making wildlife films. He met his wife and fellow film maker, Elizabeth Parer-Cook, in 1977.\n\nDavid and Elizabeth's films have won over 130 Australian and international awards including the Golden Panda at Wildscreen twice and three Emmy's.\n\nHe was awarded Golden Panda from Wildscreen (known as the green Oscars) for:\n\nHe has been awarded the AFI award for the best cinematography for a non-feature film four times, for :\n\nHis other work as a cinematographer and producer includes:\nMany of David's documentaries have been narrated by noted naturalist David Attenborough.\n\nDavid received an Honorary Doctor of Science from Monash University, Melbourne 17 March 1989.\n\nDavid gained legend status at St Patrick's College Old Collegians' Association. He attended college there from 1962 to 1964.\n\nHis uncle was the renowned Academy Award-winning war cinematographer, Damien Peter Parer, who filmed \"Kokoda Front Line\" in 1944 in Papua New Guinea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279853", "title": "Sknyatino", "text": "Sknyatino\n\nSknyatino () is a village in Kalyazinsky District of Tver Oblast, Russia, situated at the confluence of the Nerl and the Volga Rivers, about halfway between Uglich and Tver. It is the site of the medieval town of Ksnyatin, founded by Yuri Dolgoruki in 1134 and named after his son Constantine.\nKsnyatin was intended as a fortress to defend the Nerl waterway, leading to Yuri's residence at Pereslavl-Zalessky, against Novgorodians. The latter sacked it on several occasions, before the Mongols virtually annihilated the settlement in 1239. After that, it belonged to the princes of Tver and was devastated by their enemies in 1288. By the 14th century, the neighbouring towns of Kalyazin and Kashin superseded it in importance. Since 1459, Ksnyatin has been documented as a village. Its kremlin area and cathedral were flooded in 1939, when they created the Uglich Reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "2279855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279855", "title": "South African Sign Language", "text": "South African Sign Language\n\nSouth African Sign Language (SASL, ) is the primary sign language used by Deaf people in South Africa. The South African government added a National Language Unit for South African Sign Language in 2001. SASL is not the only manual language used in South Africa, but it is the language that is being promoted as the language to be used by the Deaf in South Africa, although Deaf peoples in South Africa historically do not form a single group.\n\nIn 1995, the previous South African National Council for the Deaf (SANCD) was transformed into the Deaf Federation of South Africa (DeafSA), which resulted in a radical policy change in matters for Deaf people in South Africa, such as the development and adoption of a single sign language and the promotion of sign language over oralism. Schools for the deaf have remained largely untransformed, however, and different schools for Deaf children in South African still use different sign language systems, and at a number of schools for the Deaf the use of any sign language is either discouraged or simply not taught. There are as many as twelve different systems of signed oral language in South Africa.\n\nIn addition to South African sign languages, American Sign Language (ASL) is also used by some Deaf people in South Africa. Most local sign languages in South Africa show the influence of American Sign Language.\n\nSASL is the sign language that is used during television news casts in South Africa. Sign language is also used in the South African parliament, but different sign language interpreters are known to use different signs for the same concepts. There are around 40 schools for the Deaf in South Africa, most using a variety of SASL.\n\nSign language is explicitly mentioned in the South African constitution, and the South African Schools Act permits the study of the language in lieu of another official language at school.\n\nBy 2011, there were 84 SASL interpreters on DeafSA's interpreter register, including 43 without any training, 31 who have completed 240 study hours of interpreter training, and 10 who have gained an additional 3 years' experience and completed a further 480 study hours. A total of 7 SASL interpreters have actually been accredited by SATI/DeafSA. SASL interpreters can apply for accreditation without having completed any formal training in SASL.\n\nSouth African Sign Language is not entirely uniform and continues to evolve. Due to the geographical spread of its users and past educational policies, there are localised dialects of South African Sign Language and signs with many variants. Earlier efforts to create reference material and standardise the language, such as books (1980 \"Talking to the Deaf\", 1994 \"Dictionary of SASL\"), can only be used as historical records of the language. Daily TV broadcasts in sign language give today's South African Sign Language its national cohesion and unity.\n\nSign language is mentioned in four South African laws, namely the Constitution, the Use of Official Languages Act, the South African Schools Act, and the Pan South African Language Board Act.\n\nThe Constitution states that a board named the Pan South African Language Board should be established to \"promote, and create conditions for, the development and use of ... sign language\". In terms of the law that establishes the Pan South African Language Board (Act 59 of 1995), the board may establish language bodies to advise it on \"any particular language, sign language or augmentative and alternative communication\".\n\nIn terms of the Use of Official Languages Act, Act No. 12 of 2012, all government departments and government entities must have a language policy that states which languages are considered the official languages of that entity, and each language policy must also specify how that department or entity intends to communicate with people whose language of choice is \"South African sign language\".\n\nNeither South African Sign Language nor any other sign language is an official language of South Africa. In 2008 the SASL Policy Implementation Conference gathered many key role players including scholars, researchers and teachers, policy makers, advocates and governmental bodies to promote South African Sign Language to become recognised as South Africa's twelfth official language.\n\nAccording to the South African Schools Act, Act 84 of 1996, all schools must have a language policy, and that when selecting languages for such a policy, a \"recognised Sign Language\" should be evaluated as if it has official language status along with the other eleven official languages.\n\nAccording to the \"Language in Education\" policy in terms of section 3(4)(m) of the National Education Policy Act, Act 27 of 1996, the main aims of the Ministry of Education’s policy for language in education include \"to support the teaching and learning of all other languages required by learners or used by communities in South Africa, including languages used for religious purposes, languages which are important for international trade and communication, and South African Sign Language, as well as Alternative and \nAugmentative Communication\".\n\nSouth African Sign Language is accepted as one of the languages of instruction in the education of Deaf learners.\n\nThe number of deaf people in South Africa (600,000 deaf and 1.4 million people with hearing loss) does not give an accurate depiction of the number of people who communicate in South African Sign Language. \nThere is currently no estimate for the number of people who communicate in South African Sign Language in South Africa. Estimates vary greatly, from 700,000 to 2 million users. A request was made to the Human Sciences Research Council (South Africa) to measure this as part of the 2011 census.\n\nFingerspelling is a manual technique of signing used to spell letters and numbers (numerals, cardinals). Therefore, fingerspelling is a sign language technique for \"borrowing\" words from spoken languages, as well as for spelling names of people, places and objects. It is a practical tool to refer to the written word.\n\nSome words which are often fingerspelled tend to become signs in their own right (becoming \"frozen\"), following linguistic transformation processes such as alphanumeric incorporation and abbreviation. For instance, one of the sign-names for Cape Town uses incorporated fingerspelled letters \"C.T.\" ( transition from handshape for letter 'C' to letter 'T' of both wrists with rotation on an horizontal axis). The month of July is often abbreviated as 'J-L-Y'.\n\nFingerspelling words is not a substitute for using existing signs: it takes longer to sign and it is harder to perceive. If the fingerspelled word is a borrowing, fingerspelling depends on both users having knowledge of the oral language (English, Sotho, Afrikaans etc.). \nAlthough proper names (such as a person's name, a company name) are often fingerspelled, it is often a temporary measure until the Deaf community agrees on a Sign name replacement.\n\nSign names are specific signs which are associated with proper names (a location, a person, an organisation). Sign names are often chosen based on a salient physical property. For instance, the sign name for Nelson Mandela is signed using a flat B-hand that \"follows a hair-line over the head\". The sign name for the bank ABSA is made with both hands following the movement implied in the company corporate logo.\n\nSouth Africa is one of a few countries to have legal recognition of sign language. There is presumably some regional variation, but signers from across the country can readily understand each other, as demonstrated for example at the annual Deaf Forum.\n\nIt is commonly believed among South Africans, even among Deaf South Africans, that different language communities have different sign languages. This is evidently the result of the Deaf not being able to understand sign-language interpreters from other communities. However, this is because such \"interpreters\" do not actually use sign language, but rather Signed English, Signed Xhosa, etc., and only those who have been schooled in these artificial codes can understand them. (See manually coded language in South Africa.)\n\nTimeline:\n\nAs early as 1863, Irish nuns were involved in training programmes for the Deaf. Irish Sign Language, \"\"originally heavily influenced by French Sign Language\"\" is said to have had a noticeable influence in sign languages in the world, including in South Africa.\n\nIn 1874 in Cape Town, the first institution for the Deaf called \"Grimley Institute for Deaf and Dumb\" was established by an Irish Deaf woman named Bridget Lynne.\n\nIn 1881 in Worcester, \"De La Bat school\" for the Deaf was established.\n\nFrom 1877, Dominican sisters started to settle near Durban. In 1884, Sister Stephanie Hanshuber from Germany introduced the \"oral method\" in South Africa.\n\nIn 1888 \"King William's Town Convent School for the Education of the Deaf\" was formally opened.\n\n\"\"Since there is little historical evidence, it is presumed that South African Sign Language has a mixture of the Irish influence from the Dominican Irish nuns, and British influence as well as the American influence. (Sign Language is the natural language of the Deaf.)\"\"\n\n\nGeneral information:\n\nOrganisations:\n\nLearning:\n\nResearch resources:\n"}
{"id": "2279858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279858", "title": "Archer Milton Huntington", "text": "Archer Milton Huntington\n\nArcher Milton Huntington (March 10, 1870 – December 11, 1955) was the son of Arabella (née Duval) Huntington and the adopted, possibly biological, son of railroad magnate and industrialist Collis P. Huntington. A lifelong friend of the academy and the arts, he is known for his scholarly works in the field of Hispanic Studies and for founding The Hispanic Society of America in New York City, as well as his many contributions to the American Geographical Society.\n\nHe was also a major benefactor of the American Academy of Arts and Letters and the American Numismatic Society, which he convinced to relocate next to the Hispanic Society and the Geographical Society at the Beaux Arts Audubon Terrace complex in upper Manhattan. In 1932, he and sculptor Anna Hyatt Huntington, then his wife, founded the Brookgreen Gardens sculpture center in South Carolina; and the Mariners' Museum, which is one of the largest maritime museums in the world, in Newport News, Virginia, a new independent city that was established in the late 19th century largely though the efforts of his adopted father Collis P. Huntington.\n\nHuntington is primarily known for his scholarly works in the field of Hispanic Studies and for founding The Hispanic Society of America in New York City. The society, founded in 1904, is a museum and rare books library whose collections of Hispanic materials are unrivaled outside Spain.\n\nSpanish impressionist painter Joaquin Sorolla met Huntington in England in 1908. Huntington soon made him a member of the Hispanic Society, and invited him to exhibit there in 1909. This grand exhibition comprised 356 paintings, 195 of which sold. Sorolla spent five months in America and painted more than twenty portraits.\n\nIn 1911, Huntington contracted with Sorolla to paint 14 magnificent murals that came to be known as \"The Provinces of Spain\". These are considered to be the major commission of Sorolla's career. His enormous canvases hang in the Sorolla Room of the Hispanic Society building in Manhattan; the room was opened in 1926 following Sorolla's death. A major restoration of this room was completed in 2010. During the restoration of the Sorolla Room, the murals toured major art museums in Spain.\n\nShortly after 1920, Huntington launched the careers of six art historians in the Hispanic field: Elizabeth du Gué Trapier, Beatrice Gilman Proske, Alice Wilson Frothingham, Florence Lewis May, Eleanor Sherman Font, and Clara Louisa Penney, with three in particular (Proske, Frothingham, and May) creating the seminal works in their fields.\n\nHuntington's wife, Anna Hyatt Huntington, sculpted the bronze statues and limestone bas-reliefs that stand outside the entrance to the Hispanic Society building.\n\nArcher Huntington became a Fellow of the American Geographical Society in 1894 and a Councilor in 1904, the same year he founded the Hispanic Society of America. In 1907, Huntington was elected President of the American Geographical Society. Huntington donated land on Audubon Terrace to the AGS in 1911 and “contributed the greater part of the cost of construction” for the new building himself; Huntington also provided generous financial assistance to the AGS throughout his tenure as member.\n\nHuntington was one of the Society's most influential leaders; he provided new facilities which enabled the AGS to expand its “staff, collections, and activities,” arranged for the AGS to conduct a transcontinental excursion for geographers around the world in 1912, balanced the Society's budget, expanded its library, coordinated a collaboration between the AGS and the Association of American Geographers, and selected Isaiah Bowman as the first Director of the American Geographical Society.\n\nHuntington was also responsible for the acquisition of the American Geographical Society Library's oldest world map: the Leardo Mappamundi. Huntington donated the 15th century map to the AGS of NY in 1906 and the map now resides in the American Geographical Society Library at the University of Wisconsin-Milwaukee. In a letter honoring Huntington after his death in 1955, the Society stated that Huntington would be remembered for his work bringing many institutions together with “academic dignity and repose.”  \n\nIn 1915, Huntington donated land on which the American Academy of Arts and Letters could construct a permanent New York City home. He also donated land and funds to relocate the Numismatic Society and the Museum of the American Indian to Audubon Terrace, the same complex that housed Huntington's many other beloved organizations.\nIn 1932 he donated land and helped to create Brookgreen Gardens in South Carolina, a public sculpture garden in which to display the figurative sculpture works of American sculptors, including many pieces by Anna Hyatt Huntington. A portion of Brookgreen Gardens is a nature reserve, and another section is leased to the state for Huntington Beach State Park. The gardens, historic plantation sites, and their adjacent residence 'Atalaya Castle' are a National Historic Landmark, and on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn that same year, working with Newport News Shipbuilding and Drydock Company president Homer L. Ferguson, Huntington founded the Mariners' Museum in Newport News, Virginia, one of the largest maritime museums in the world.\n\nIn 1936, Huntington created an endowment which established an annual stipend for a Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress, now officially the Poet Laureate Consultant in Poetry to the Library of Congress. In 2006, this stipend amounted to $40,000 per year, including a $35,000 salary and $5,000 in travel expenses.\n\nFrom 1932-39, the Huntingtons donated what was to become the 15,000 acre Archer Milton Huntington and Anna Hyatt Huntington Wildlife Forest in Newcomb, New York, now part of the State University of New York College of Environmental Science and Forestry.\n\nIn 1939, the Huntingtons donated their mansion at 1083 Fifth Avenue and adjacent properties between 89th & 90th Streets to the National Academy, the oldest artists' organization in the United States. The property is home to the National Academy Museum and Art School.\n\nArcher Huntington's family included several prominent cousins. The New York City architect Charles P. Huntington included. His cousin Henry E. Huntington founded the renowned The Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens in California.\n\nArcher Huntington married twice. On August 6, 1895, he married Helen Manchester Gates, the daughter of Rev. Isaac E. Gates and Ellen M.H. Gates. Like her mother, Helen was a writer. Archer and Helen were temporarily detained and effectively under arrest by German authorities in Nuremberg, Bavaria, at the outbreak of World War I in August 1914 due to suspicions that Archer, a representative of the American Geographical Society, was a spy. Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan appealed for their release through diplomatic channels. Archer and Helen had no children and divorced in 1918.\n\nArcher married sculptor Anna Hyatt on March 10, 1923, and they founded Brookgreen Gardens sculpture center and nature reserve near Myrtle Beach, South Carolina, in 1931. Her large scale sculptures adorn the Audubon Terrace at the Hispanic Society of America in New York City. March 10 was both his and his wife's birthday. They then called March 10 \"3 in 1 day\" and it is still celebrated at Atalaya and Brookgreen Gardens in South Carolina. Archer and Anna had no children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279860", "title": "The Years of Decay", "text": "The Years of Decay\n\nThe Years of Decay is the fourth studio album by thrash metal band Overkill, released on October 13, 1989 through Atlantic and Megaforce Records. It is the last Overkill album to feature guitarist Bobby Gustafson, who left the band amid a feud between himself and its founding members Bobby \"Blitz\" Ellsworth (vocalist) and D. D. Verni (bassist).\n\nOverkill spent nearly a year touring in support of \"The Years of Decay\". From November to December 1989, the band toured with Wolfsbane and Dark Angel, and a month later they toured Europe with Mordred. They also supported Testament on their \"Practice What You Preach\" tour. Overkill embarked on a headlining North American tour for three months, which took place from March to June 1990. Supporting acts for this tour were Excel, Vio-lence and Deceased.\n\nTo date, all songs from \"The Years of Decay\" have been played live except \"Nothing to Die For\". According to frontman Bobby \"Blitz\" Ellsworth, \"E.vil N.ever D.ies\" is a continuation of the self-titled \"Overkill\" series of songs from the band's three previous albums, but was not named \"Overkill IV\"; this would be the last song of the series until \"Immortalis\" (2007), which features the most recent part in \"Overkill V... The Brand\".\n\nJason Anderson at AllMusic gave \"The Years of Decay\" a positive review, awarding it four stars out of five. He called it a \"classic by the group's fans\", and that it \"is often mentioned as the pinnacle of the East Coast thrashers' recording career\". The album reached No. 155 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" 200 and remained on that chart for eight weeks, making it Overkill's fourth highest-charting release to date. As of May 2000 it had sold over 67,000 copies in the U.S., according to Nielsen SoundScan.\n\nIn August 2014, \"Revolver\" magazine placed the album on its list of \"14 Thrash Albums You Need to Own\". It was also ranked number ten on \"Loudwire\"'s top ten list of \"Thrash Albums NOT Released by the Big 4\".\n\nPantera reportedly hired Terry Date to produce \"Cowboys from Hell\" based on his production of this album as well as Bobby Gustafson's guitar tone, which had influenced Dimebag Darrell.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279864", "title": "Acts of independent significance", "text": "Acts of independent significance\n\nThe doctrine of acts of independent significance at common law permits a testator to effectively change the disposition of his property without changing a will, if acts or events changing the disposition have some significance beyond avoiding the requirements of the will.\n\nThe doctrine is frequently applied under the following two circumstances:\n\nThe Uniform Probate Code states,\n"}
{"id": "2279880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279880", "title": "Hispanic Society of America", "text": "Hispanic Society of America\n\nThe Hispanic Society of America is a museum and reference library for the study of the arts and cultures of Spain and Portugal and their former colonies in Latin America, the Philippines and Portuguese India. (Despite the name and the founder's intention, it has never functioned as a learned association.) Founded in 1904 by Archer M. Huntington, the institution remains at its original location in a 1908 Beaux Arts building on Audubon Terrace (at 155th Street and Broadway) in the lower Washington Heights neighborhood of New York City in the United States. A second building, on the north side of the terrace, was added in 1930. Exterior sculpture in front of that building includes work by Anna Hyatt Huntington and nine major reliefs by the Swiss-American sculptor Berthold Nebel, a commission that took ten years to complete. The Hispanic Society complex was designated a National Historic Landmark in 2012.\n\nIn 2017, the museum began a major renovation and is closed to the public until the work is completed. Much of the collection is on loan to other institutions during this period.\n\nThe museum contains more than 18,000 works in every medium, ranging from prehistoric times to the 20th century. There are important paintings by Diego Velázquez, Francisco de Goya, El Greco, and Joaquín Sorolla, among others, as well as sculpture and architectural elements, furniture and metalwork, ceramics and textiles.\n\nA major component of this museum is the Sorolla Room which was reinstalled in 2010. It displays \"The Provinces of Spain\", 14 massive paintings commissioned by Archer Huntington in 1911 that Sorolla created from 1913 to 1919. These magnificent paintings, totaling over 200 linear feet (61 m), ring the large room and depict scenes from the regions of Spain.\n\nThe library contains over 250,000 books, 200,000 documents, 175,000 photographs, and 15,000 prints. The rare books library maintains 15,000 books printed before 1700, including a first edition of \"Don Quijote.\" It also holds the manuscript Black Book of Hours \"Horae Beatae Virginis Mariae ad usum Romanum\" (circa 1458), one of only a handful of such works, and the enormous \"Map of the World\" (1526) by Juan Vespucci.\n\nIn April 2015 the society announced the appointment of Philippe de Montebello to chair the society's Board of Overseers and spearhead a major effort to roughly double the museum's size by renovating the vacant Beaux Arts former building of the Museum of the American Indian, adjacent to the society's original museum building. Beginning January 1, 2017, the museum is closed for extensive renovations, although the library is open on a limited basis by appointment only. The $15 million project will replace the building's roof and lighting. Originally scheduled to reopen in the fall of 2019, the museum is still closed as of early 2020.\n\nWhile the museum is closed, many of its works are being lent to other institutions. About 200 of the society's most important works were displayed from April through September 2017 at the Museo del Prado in Madrid. The exhibit then traveled to the Museo del Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City from June through September 2018; the Albuquerque Museum of Art and History, November 2018 through March 2019; the Cincinnati Art Museum, October 2019 through January 2020; and the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston from March to May 2020.\n\nAlthough admission to the museum has always been free in accordance with Archer Huntington's trust, due to financial difficulties the society went to court in 2016 in order to be allowed to charge an admission fee to temporary exhibitions to be held in the museum's new facility, while keeping the main hall free.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279886", "title": "Herbert Adams (sculptor)", "text": "Herbert Adams (sculptor)\n\nSamuel Herbert Adams (January 28, 1858 – May 21, 1945) was an American sculptor.\n\nHerbert Adams was born at West Concord, Vermont. In 1863, at the age of five, he moved to Fitchburg, Massachusetts, so his father could take a job at the Putnam Machine Co. His family purchased a home on 26 Chestnut Street. He attended the Fitchburg public schools, the Academy and was influenced by Fitchburg's first Art teacher, Louise Haskell, to pursue a career in Art. He attended Massachusetts Normal School in Boston and got a teaching certificate. Herbert Adams taught Art in the Fitchburg Public schools from 1878–1882, but left Fitchburg for Paris France in 1885 to pursue his interest in sculpture. He was educated at the Massachusetts Normal Art School enrolling in 1877 at 18 years of age, and in 1885-1890 he was a pupil of Antonin Mercié in Paris.\n\nIn 1889 Rodney Wallace, James Phillips, and Henry Willis donated money for an ornamental fountain to grace the Upper Common of Fitchburg, MA and the City accepted the idea. This 26 foot in diameter granite and bronze fountain depicting two playful boys and a family of turtles was the first public commission awarded to Adams and was created in his Paris studio. This was the first, large sculpture, done in the \"lost-wax\" process, brought to America. During Adams lifetime he completed over 200 major public works of art, and is considered to be one of the most important American sculptors.\n\nIn 1890-1898 he was an instructor in the art school of Pratt Institute, Brooklyn, New York. He was elected into the National Academy of Design in 1898, and in 1906 was elected vice-president of the National Academy of Design, New York. Adams later served as President from 1917-1920. He experimented successfully with some polychrome busts and tinted marbles, notably in the \"Rabbi's Daughter\" (1894), and a portrait of the actress Julia Marlowe (1898). He was at his best in his portrait busts of women, the best example being the study, completed in 1887, of Miss Adeline Pond, whom he later married.\n\nHe was a member of the U.S. Commission of Fine Arts from 1915 to 1920, serving as vice chairman from 1918 to 1920.\n\nAdams died in New York City in 1945.\n\nWorks by Adams are held by numerous American museums, including the National Gallery of Art in Washington, DC and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279887", "title": "Rhode Island Route 146", "text": "Rhode Island Route 146\n\nRoute 146 is a limited-access road in the U.S. state of Rhode Island, maintained by the Rhode Island Department of Transportation (RIDOT). Spanning approximately along a north–south axis, it links the cities of Providence, Woonsocket, and Worcester, Massachusetts.\n\nThe southern terminus of Route 146 is located at Interstate 95 (I-95) in Providence. The majority of the route is a controlled-access highway, with the exception of at-grade crossings and driveway access in the towns of North Smithfield and Lincoln. The northern terminus is located at the Rhode Island–Massachusetts border in Millville, where it transitions into Massachusetts Route 146 and continues northbound towards the Massachusetts Turnpike in Millbury and I-290 in Worcester.\n\nRoute 146 begins in downtown Providence at I-95 northbound Exit 23 (there is no direct access from I-95 southbound, Exit 23 access to Route 146 is via surface streets). Locally it is known as Old Louisquisset Pike, and is a narrow 4-lane freeway with no shoulders and a simple Jersey barrier median separating oncoming traffic. The first two interchanges are partial access only, with Rhode Island Route 7 (Douglas Avenue) and Rhode Island Route 246 (Charles Street) and provide access between Route 146 and I-95 via surface streets for where there is no direct access (southbound I-95 to northbound 146, and southbound 146 to northbound I-95). The first complete interchange is a diamond interchange with Branch Avenue, followed by a partial interchange with Rhode Island Route 15 (no northbound entrance to Route 146). The next interchange, with Route 246 a second time, provides the access missing from the Route 15 interchange.\n\nAt this point, now in North Providence the \"Old Louisquisset Pike\" designation leaves to follow Route 246, and the 146 freeway becomes the Eddie Dowling Highway. Near the southern boundary of Lincoln, there is a southbound-only offramp (no other access) with Route 246, while the northbound side abuts Olney Pond in the Lincoln Woods State Park. Two partial cloverleaf interchanges follow with Twin River Road and Rhode Island Route 123/Breakneck Hill Road. The next interchange northbound is a right-in/right-out terminus of Sherman Avenue, while southbound has access to 246 here. A single onramp provides Wilbur Avenue an entrance to northbound 146 next, then a modified cloverleaf interchange with Rhode Island Route 116, followed shortly by a full cloverleaf interchange with I-295 and the southern terminus of Rhode Island Route 99, which is a short connector freeway to the city of Woonsocket Route 99 access is a northbound exit/southbound entrance only, the other directions need to use surface streets for access.\n\nNorth of this interchange, the road turns into a divided boulevard with at-grade crossings and driveway access through the southern part of the town of North Smithfield, Rhode Island. A stoplight marks the only major intersection, an at-grade crossing with Sayles Hill Road, which doubles back and has a right in/right out interchange with southbound 146. At the partial interchange with Rhode Island Route 146A (northbound exit and southbound entrance) the freeway resumes, now called the North Smithfield Expressway, which has three interchanges in the town: Rhode Island Route 104, Pound Hill Road, and a complex interchange with School Street and 146A that also provides access to Rhode Island Route 5 and Rhode Island Route 102. Approximately two miles north of this interchange, the freeway continues into Massachusetts as Massachusetts Route 146, the Worcester/Providence Pike.\n\nPrior to the construction of the two freeway sections, Route 146 used present-day Route 246 and Route 146A. The only part of the original alignment still in use is the non-freeway section between Interstate 295/Route 99 and Route 146A in the southern part of North Smithfield.\n\nIn May 2019, Route 146 received mile-based exit numbers. Previously, the exits were unnumbered.\n\nIn May 2019, the Rhode Island Senate announced that the state would borrow $200 million to reconfigure I-95 through Downtown Providence, near the southern terminus of Route 146. The replacement of the Providence Viaduct with twin bridges is intended to alleviate the bottleneck created by traffic entering I-95 from the US 6 and RI 10, and exiting towards RI 146 and US 44. The project is expected to cost $250 million.\n\nRIDOT plans to build two toll gantries, one in Lincoln and one in North Smithfield, for truck-only electronic toll collection.\n\nExits were unnumbered until Summer 2019, when RIDOT began adding mileage-based exit numbers to conform to federal highway standards. The project is expected to be completed by 2021.\n\nRoute 146A is a numbered state highway running in Rhode Island. It was designated as Route 146 before the construction of the North Smithfield Expressway. The road follows a former stagecoach path through historic Union Village in North Smithfield. This road was known as \"the Great Road\". The northern end of the road crosses the state line near Buxton Street at Uxbridge, Massachusetts. This section was known as Ironstone, after good quality bog iron ore found near here.\n\nIt takes the following route through the state:\n\n\nMajor intersections\n\n"}
{"id": "2279892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279892", "title": "Wirth's law", "text": "Wirth's law\n\nWirth's law is an adage on computer performance which states that software is getting slower more rapidly than hardware is becoming faster.\n\nThe adage is named after Niklaus Wirth, who discussed it in his 1995 article \"A Plea for Lean Software\".\n\nWirth attributed the saying to Martin Reiser, who in the preface to his book on the Oberon System wrote: \"The hope is that the progress in hardware will cure all software ills. However, a critical observer may observe that software manages to outgrow hardware in size and sluggishness.\" Other observers had noted this for some time before; indeed, the trend was becoming obvious as early as 1987.\n\nHe states two contributing factors to the acceptance of ever-growing software as: \"rapidly growing hardware performance\" and \"customers' ignorance of features that are essential versus nice-to-have\". Enhanced user convenience and functionality supposedly justify the increased size of software, but Wirth argues that people are increasingly misinterpreting complexity as sophistication, that \"these details are cute but not essential, and they have a hidden cost\". As a result, he calls for the creation of \"leaner\" software and pioneered the development of Oberon, a software system developed between 1986 and 1989 based on nothing but hardware. Its primary goal was to show that software can be developed with a fraction of the memory capacity and processor power usually required, without sacrificing flexibility, functionality, or user convenience.\n\nThe law was restated in 2009 and attributed to Larry Page, founder of Google. It has been referred to as Page's law. The first use of that name is attributed to Sergey Brin at the 2009 Google I/O Conference.\n\nOther common forms use the names of the leading hardware and software companies of the 1990s (Intel & Microsoft), or their CEOs (Andy Grove & Bill Gates): \"What Intel giveth, Microsoft taketh away\" and \"What Andy giveth, Bill taketh away\".\n\nGates's law (\"The speed of software halves every 18 months\") is a variant on Wirth's law, borrowing its name from Bill Gates, co-founder of Microsoft. It is an observation that the speed of commercial software generally slows by 50% every 18 months, thereby negating all the benefits of Moore's law. This could occur for a variety of reasons: \"featuritis\", \"code cruft\", developer laziness, or a management turnover whose design philosophy does not coincide with the previous manager.\n\nMay's law, named after David May, is a variant stating: \"Software efficiency halves every 18 months, compensating Moore's law\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2279894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279894", "title": "Bambouk", "text": "Bambouk\n\nBambouk (sometimes Bambuk or Bambuhu) is a traditional name for the territory in eastern Senegal and western Mali, encompassing the Bambouk Mountains on its eastern edge, the valley of the Faleme River and the hilly country to the east of the river valley. It was a formally described district in French Sudan, but in 1895, the border between Sudan and Senegal was moved to the Faleme River, placing the western portion of the district within Senegal. The term is still used to designate the region, but there is no formal administrative area with that name.\n\nAccording to Martin Meredith, the Carthaginians used Berber nomads to establish a packhorse trade route across the Sahara between Lixus and \"the goldfields of Bambuk in the Senegal River valley.\"\n\nArab geographers referred to Bambouk, Bouré, Lobi and Ashante gold fields as Wangara. The Portuguese reached Bambouk in 1550, but were killed off, either by each other or by the locals. The French built Fort Saint Pierre on the Falémé in 1714, and two trading posts in Bambouk in 1724. The trading posts were abandoned in 1732 and the fort in 1759. Another French post was established in 1824, but abandoned in 1841. Today, Bambouk lies with the Kéniéba Cercle.\n\nAccording to Levtzion there were, \"...three principal goldfields, besides others of lesser importance: Bambuk, between the Senegal and the Faleme rivers; Bure on the Upper Niger; and the Akan goldfields near the forest of the present republics of Ghana and the Ivory Coast.\" He further states it may have been the \"island of gold or Wangara...where alluvial gold was collected.\" \"Wasteful methods reduced the productivity of the goldfields...in the eleventh or twelfth century, the Sudanese traders ventured southwards and opened up the new goldfields of Bure on the Upper Niger, in the region of Siguiri.\"\n\nThe Diakhanke established Diakha-ba and became Muslim clerics for the Malinke chiefs after Bambuk was conquered by the Mali Empire in the thirteenth century. According to Levtzion, \"From their centre in Bambuk, the Diakhanke spread to Bondu, Kedougou, and Futa Djallon and established new communities such as Niokhol and Dantilia - in order to secure a monopoly over the trade with the Europeans.\"\n\nThe area was renowned as a major centre for gold mining from the 12th until the 19th century, and some gold mining still takes place on the Malian side of the border. It served as the home of the Khasso kingdom in the 18th and 19th centuries before becoming a part of French Sudan.\n\nBambouk is primarily home to the Malinké people, and a distinctive dialect of the Maninkakan language is spoken there.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279900", "title": "Testamentary capacity", "text": "Testamentary capacity\n\nIn the common law tradition, testamentary capacity is the legal term of art used to describe a person's legal and mental ability to make or alter a valid will. This concept has also been called sound mind and memory or disposing mind and memory.\n\nAdults are presumed to have the ability to make a will. Litigation about testamentary capacity typically revolves around charges that the testator, by virtue of senility, dementia, insanity, or other unsoundness of mind, lacked the mental capacity to make a will. In essence, the doctrine requires those who would challenge a validly executed will to demonstrate that the testator did not know the consequence of his or her conduct when he or she executed the will. \n\nCertain people, such as minors, are usually deemed to be conclusively incapable of making a will by the common law; however, minors who serve in the military are conceded the right to make a will by statute in many jurisdictions. In South Africa, however, one acquires testamentary capacity at the age of 16 years.\n\nThe requirements for testamentary capacity are minimal. Some courts have held that a person who lacked the capacity to make a contract can nevertheless make a valid will. While the wording of statutes or judicial rulings will vary from one jurisdiction to another, the test generally requires that the testator was aware of:\n\nThe legal test implies that a typical claimant in a will contest is a disgruntled heir who believes he or she should have received a larger share than they did under the will. Once the challenging party meets the burden of proof that the testator did not possess the capacity, the burden subsequently shifts to the party propounding the will to show by clear and convincing evidence that the testator did have the requisite capacity.\n\nThose who contest a will for lack of testamentary capacity must typically show that the decedent suffered from mental unsoundness that left them unable to remember family members or caused them to hold insane delusions about them. Dead Man's Statutes sometimes restrict evidence which can be admitted concerning transactions with the decedent. \n\nThe best known or most authoritative text on the common law test for capacity is the judgment of Martin Nourse QC (who was then sitting as a deputy judge of the High Court and later became a Lord Justice of Appeal)in\" Re Beaney\", deceased \nWhen someone gives away a substantial proportion of their assets, the general rule is that they must have the same degree of capacity as is required for a will.\n\"The degree or extent of understanding required in respect of any instrument is relative to the particular transaction which it is to effect. In the case of a will the degree required is always high. In the case of a contract, a deed made for consideration or a gift inter vivos, whether by deed or otherwise, the degree required varies with the circumstances of the transaction. Thus, at one extreme, if the subject-matter and value of a gift are trivial in relation to the donor's other assets a low degree of understanding will suffice. But, at the other, if its effect is to dispose of the donor's only asset of value and thus for practical purposes to pre-empt the devolution of his estate under his will or on his intestacy, then the degree of understanding required is as high as that required for a will, and the donor must understand the claims of all potential donees and the extent of the property to be disposed of.\"\n\nLawyers for people whose testamentary capacity might be called into question often arrange for a will execution to be video taped. On video, they ask the testator about his property and about his family, and go over the contents of the testator's will.\n\nAlong with resolving an examinee's testamentary capacity, a forensic specialist observes for signs of undue influence by a concerned party that exploits an emotionally vulnerable individual who might otherwise be cognitively intact. The testamentary capacity matter is most frequently raised posthumously, when an aggrieved heir contests the will entered into probate. For this reason, the forensic psychiatrist or forensic psychologist studies the testatrix’ cognition through videotape record of the drafting of the will, or by reviewing email, letters and other records. \n\nEven when a testator are found to have lacked testamentary capacity due to senility, loss of memory due to the aging process, infirmity or insanity, courts will sometimes rule that the testator had a \"temporary period of lucidity\" or a \"lucid moment\" at the time of the execution of the testamentary instrument. Such finding will validate a will that would otherwise be denied probate.\n\nA way to forestall a will contest would be to have a self-proving will, in which an affidavit of the witnesses to the will specifically swear or affirm that the will was prepared under the supervision of an attorney.\n\nThe presumption of capacity\nWhere a will is rational, professionally drawn, seemingly regular in form and is made by a person whose capacity is not in doubt, there is a presumption that the will is valid. This presumption can be rebutted by a challenger to the will showing that there is a real doubt about capacity. At this point the burden of proving capacity moves to the propounder of the will to then show that there was testamentary capacity at the time the will was executed. \n\nTestamentary capacity\nTestamentary capacity is the mental capacity required to make a valid will. The current test comes from the decision in Banks v Goodfellow (1870). This case concerned the validity of the will of John Banks. In modern terms he would most likely be described as a paranoid schizophrenic. He suffered from delusions that he was being persecuted by devils (they were sometimes visible to him) and also by a deceased local grocer. His will was challenged on the basis that he was insane and therefore unable to make a will. The will was found to be valid after trial by jury, before Brett J, at Cumberland Spring Assizes in 1869. On appeal, this judgment was confirmed unanimously by a panel of four appeal judges in Queen's Bench. The will was found to be valid, not influenced by his delusions, and deemed rational, being in favour of his only close relative (who also lived with him). \nIn a strong and eloquent judgment, Cockburn CJ set out the following test of the capacity to make a valid will, which still applied in many Anglophone jurisdictions today:\n“It is essential to the exercise of such a power that a testator shall understand the nature of the act and its effects; shall understand the extent of the property of which he is disposing; shall be able to comprehend and appreciate the claims to which he ought to give effect; and, with a view to the latter object, that no disorder of the mind shall poison his affections, pervert his sense of right, or prevent the exercise of his natural faculties—that no insane delusion shall influence his will in disposing of his property and bring about a disposal of it which, if the mind had been sound, would not have been made.” \nThis remains the test today, notwithstanding the Mental Capacity Act 2005.\nIt is now considered as being composed of four distinct elements and that understanding is required of\n[1] the nature of the act of making a will and its effect\n[2] the extent of the property that is to be disposed of\n[3] the claims of family or friendship to which he ought to give effect\nand as a separate element \n[4] that no disorder of the mind shall poison his affections, pervert his sense of right, or prevent the exercise of his natural faculties—that no insane delusion shall influence his will in disposing of his property and bring about a disposal of it which, if the mind had been sound, would not have been made.\nIn addition, the original wording, [1], [2] and [3] are all approached as not requiring actual understanding, but instead being capable of understanding .\nAs this is a common law test created by judges, it is capable of being modified by judges, as they see fit in the light of modern circumstances. Modern psychiatric knowledge has allowed the test to be developed by having a further element added and that is for the testator to be capable of exercising his decision-making powers. \nThis test is focussed on the ability of the particular individual and his particular estate. The outcome is always unique to the particular facts. Where the circumstances and assets of a testator are simple or straightforward the level of capacity required will be lower than that for the testator with complex circumstances and assets. \n\nA court administered test\nThe test in Banks v Goodfellow has proved to be long lasting as it was not a definition in medical terms, but a plain English definition of what a person should be capable of understanding in order to make a will. The test is still applied by a court. A medical opinion, while being potentially valuable evidence, is not determinative of capacity unless accepted as such by the court. The evidence of the will draftsman has considerable value to the court, if he has carried out his work to an acceptable standard. \n\nThe test for wills distinguished from other tests of capacity\nThe test in Banks v Goodfellow is expressly designed for the capability of a person to make a will. It is not therefore a test that has an application to any other transactions, save one – the capacity to make substantial lifetime gifts. The leading English decision in this area is Re Beaney (deceased) where it was said:\n“In the circumstances, it seems to me that the law is this. The degree or extent of understanding required in respect of any instrument is relative to the particular transaction which it is to effect. In the case of a will the degree required is always high. In the case of a contract, a deed made for consideration or a gift inter vivos, whether by deed or otherwise, the degree required varies with the circumstances of the transaction. Thus, at one extreme, if the subject matter and value of a gift are trivial in relation to the donor’s other assets a low degree of understanding will suffice. But, at the other extreme, if its effect is to dispose of the donor’s only asset of value and thus, for practical purposes, to pre-empt the devolution of his estate under his will or on his intestacy, then the degree of understanding required is as high as that required for a will, and the donor understands the claims of all potential donees and the extent of the property to be disposed of.”\n\nThe test in a modern context\nThe increasing longevity of individuals means that there is a greater chance of any person losing the capacity to make a will in their old age as a result of dementia. Indeed, dementia is the commonest reason for a will to be challenged, although any mental disorder may cause loss of capacity. This presents a major issue for the will draftsman who is not only required to have a knowledge of the legal test of capacity, but also of what its implications are, in order to record his relevant observations of the testator and form an opinion of his client's capacity. This, coupled with much greater prominence of negligence claims against will draftsmen, means that a careful understanding of what the draftsman should be doing becomes vital.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279905", "title": "Lounge Against the Machine", "text": "Lounge Against the Machine\n\nLounge Against the Machine is the first album by Richard Cheese, released October 17, 2000. The album title is a play on the name of the band Rage Against the Machine.\n\nUnlike his subsequent albums featuring his band, which takes its name from this album, the instruments on this debut album are synthesized. Select songs were later re-recorded in 2006 as \"big band versions\" for the his greatest hits album, \"\".\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Songs re-recorded and released on \"\" with live instruments.<nowiki>**</nowiki> Songs re-recorded and released on \"Silent Nightclub\" with live instruments.\n"}
{"id": "2279912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279912", "title": "Pierre-Laurent Buirette de Belloy", "text": "Pierre-Laurent Buirette de Belloy\n\nPierre-Laurent Buirette de Belloy or Dormont De Belloy (17 November 17275 March 1775) was a French dramatist and actor.\n\nHe was born at Saint-Flour, Cantal, and was educated by his uncle, a distinguished advocate in Paris, for the bar. To escape from a profession he disliked he joined a troupe of comedians playing in the courts of the northern sovereigns. In 1758 the performance of his \"Titus\", which had already been produced in Saint Petersburg, was postponed through his uncle's exertions; and when it did appear, a hostile cabal procured its failure, and it was not until after his guardians death that de Belloy returned to Paris with \"Zelmire\" (1762), a fantastic drama which met with great success, latter becoming an opera by Rossini. This was followed in 1765 by the patriotic play, \"Le Siège de Calais\".\n\nThe humiliations undergone by France in the Seven Years' War assured a good reception for a play in which the devotion of Frenchmen redeemed disaster. The popular enthusiasm was unaffected by the judgment of calmer critics such as Diderot and Voltaire, who pointed out that the glorification of France was not best effected by a picture of defeat. De Belloy was admitted to the Académie française in 1772 due to his activities as a playwright.\nHe remains the only actor to have ever held a seat on the Academy. His attempt to introduce national subjects into French drama deserves honor, but it must be confessed that his resources proved unequal to the task.\nThe \"Le Siège de Calais\" was followed by \"Gabrielle de Vergy\" (1770), \"Gaston di Bayard\" (1771), \"Pedro le cruel\" (1772). None of these attained the success of the earlier play, and de Belloy's death, which took place on 5 March 1775, is said to have been hastened by disappointment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279917", "title": "Sin Moo Hapkido", "text": "Sin Moo Hapkido\n\nSin Moo Hapkido is a martial art that combines \"hard\" and \"soft\" techniques. From a purely technical perspective, it is very closely related to its parent art, Traditional Hapkido, though it places more emphasis on meditative, philosophical, and Ki development training. Hapkido is often translated as “the way of coordinating power,” which places emphasis on the physical techniques that Hapkido is often known for. However, the founder of Sin Moo Hapkido, Ji Han-Jae, has landed on a different understanding of the term. \"Hap\" means bringing together, gathering, or harmonizing. “Ki” is the energy or breath in the body that connects the mind and the body, and \"Do\" is the process or way this happens. Thus, his definition of Hapkido is, “The way of harmonizing the mind and body through the utilization of ki.” Sin means \"higher mind or higher spirit,\" and \"Moo\" means \"martial art.\" \n\nWhen translated in its entirety, Sin Moo Hapkido therefore means, “The way of using martial arts to harmonize the mind and body to reach a higher more enlightened state of existence.”\n\nSin Moo Hapkido was founded in 1983 in Seoul, South Korea by Dojunim Ji Han-Jae (b. 1936) with the assistance of Merrill Jung and other members of the Northern California Hapkido Association. The curriculum was based on Ji's earlier Hapkido programs that he developed from his three teachers and own personal study. Ji, Han Jae was an early student (Dan #14) of Choi Yong-Sool, a student of Yawara & Daito-Ryu Aikijujutsu, and the founder of Hapkiyusool, a forerunner of Hapkido. DoJuNim Ji, Han Jae also a student of the teacher known only as Master / Wise-Man Lee (Lee Do-Sa), who taught \"Sam Rang Do\", weapons, and more, as well as \"Grandma\", who he considered to be his spiritual teacher. Though formed in Seoul, the first official school for Sin Moo Hapkido was not opened until 1984 in Daly City (very near San Francisco), California, where Ji began teaching his new art.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido incorporates a philosophy of non-violence, self-improvement, adaptability, and physical, emotional and spiritual balance, with the basic Hapkido training. Additionally, Sin Moo Hapkido formalizes a series of techniques, although at advanced levels students are expected to synthesize their own work. The use of energy flows are also emphasized in Sin Moo Hapkido.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido uses holds, joint locks, throws, re-direction, kicks, punches, blocks, pressure points, weapons, and energy flow techniques.\n\nHolds and joint locks are used primarily for control of an aggressor. They are primarily defensive, but at more advanced levels can be interpreted as attacks. At the 4th dan black belt there is also taught 30 special attack techniques using variations and combinations of basic locks.\n\nThrows and re-direction of an aggressor's energy use an attacker's momentum to continue their own motion using the circular motion principle (Won) of Hapkido. These techniques depend on the incoming energy of the attack to determine their outcome; a soft or weak attack will require a small or soft re-direction. A large or powerful attack will result in a re-direction or throw that involves much more energy, translating to a more devastating outcome upon the attacker. The blocks used in Sin Moo Hapkido are usually also re-direction blocks, but some blocks are intended to be used to stop an aggressor's attack and because of this some blocks are hard blocks. Also legs are used for blocking.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido uses a wide variety of strikes. Sin Moo Hapkido incorporates 25 defensive kicks that are useful in \"street style\" defensive situations that counter incoming attacks – out of the 25 two are specially only used to block kicks, but some of the other kicks can be used the same way also. Many of the kicks are designed for use in restricted spaces like hallways or crowds. After learning the basic 25 the student then learns 7 spin kicks, followed by many special kicks. Special kicks are harder to master but they need more room to be used, and they include doublekicks, flyingkicks, from the ground done kicks, jumpingkicks and combination kicks. Sin Moo Hapkido has numerous striking techniques.\n\nPressure points are used in Hapkido to control the physical body, and to manipulate the body's Ki to stop, disarm and disable an attacker or heal a patient. Sin Moo Hapkido uses many pressure points out of the body's over 750 pressure points. The pressure points are also referred to as vital points. Sin Moo Hapkido has a special side called Revival Techniques, which specializes on pressure point fighting and eastern medicine.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido weapon training consists of the use of short stick (tan bong), long stick (jang bong), the sword (kum), cane, handkerchief, long-belt/scarf, thrown weapons (knives, rocks, etc...) and adapting everyday objects to use as weapons. Weapon training is learned in the black belt stages, but knife defense techniques are learned at Brown Belt.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido's ranking system is somewhat similar to other ranking systems. Gups (급, called also kups) are beginner student stages and dans (단) are advanced student stages. Though Sin Moo Hapkido has had a number of different revisions as far as rank structure, this is the current organization used by Ji, Han Jae. . Lately, Dojunim Ji, Han Jae himself has associated official titles to Dan ranks, adding a \"best of the best\" rank beyond 10th Dan. He has asked all his top students (9th and 10th Dans) to help the \"best of the bests\" in their task of expanding and developing Sin Moo Hapkido.\n\nBelt Ranks:\n\nBlack Belts:\n\nThere are many variations when it comes to uniforms in Sin Moo Hapkido as there was no official uniform for many years. Although, a diamond pattern on the dobok top is a Hapkido designation. Most European schools used white uniforms with black trim, and most American schools used plain white judo uniforms for the first 15 years or so.\n\nThe current official uniform is a grey colored dobok often with ties at the bottoms (for leg weights), though many people chose to leave the legs open. There is a World Sin Moo Hapkido logo on the left lapel and an oval shaped Sin Moo Hapkido logo on the back.\n\nThe official uniform (dobok) for \"Masters\" rank and above, 6th Dan and higher, is white with gold trim as seen in Bruce Lee's \"Game of Death\" movie.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido has many meditation techniques. They are a combination of Buddhist, Confucian, and Taoist exercises and primarily focus on Ki development and opening the \"mind's eye.\" Sin Moo Hapkido's first exercise is known as Danjeon Breathing and is similar to Chinese Qigong practices. Sin Moo Hapkido classes usually start with danjeon breathing and end with meditation.\n\nSin Moo Hapkido's basic rules are categorized into three groups to make a total of 9 rules. The first three are associated with Confucianism. The second are related to Buddhism. The last three rules are related to Seon Buddhism and Taoism. These rules will help the Sin Moo Hapkido practitioner to have a better and healthier life.\n\nPhysical:\n\nMental:\n\nSpiritual:\n\n (A) Wrist Defense\n (B) Attacking\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSince 2014, Doju Nim Ji Han Jae has been issuing Kwan certifications : his top students have been given the authorization to develop their own Sin Moo Hapkido styles, by mixing traditional Sin Moo Hapkido with their own martial arts background. This way, Sin Moo Hapkido can grow much richer year after year, thanks to all these top ranking Masters teaching their techniques all over the world. Here is a list of the Kwans that currently exist within the Sin Moo Hapkido family :\n\nKwans and regions are independent and they are fully authorized to issue Dan certificates. Although, the caveat is that all kwans and regions work together to preserve the legacy of Sin Moo Hapkido and Sin Moo. \n\nHowever, many of them continue to work together by attending special events such as World Sin Moo Hapkido Federation's \"International Hapkido Summit\", hosted by \"Joong Kwang Dae Sun Sa\" Ken MacKenzie. Many Grandmasters like GM John Godwin (Tang Soo Kwan), GM Inwan Kim (Sun Bi Kwan), GM Larry Dorsey (Bi Ho Kwan) and GM Massan Ghorbani (Satory Do Kwan) regularly attend this cooperation event.\n\nPlus, many European Sin Moo Grandmasters like GM Rami Vainionpaa (head of Skandinavian Sin Moo Hapkido), GM Nicolas Tacchi (Jeong Hak Kwan, head of French-speaking Sin Moo Hapkido), GM Rafael Balbastre (head of Hispanic Sin Moo Hapkido) and GM Herman Mochalin (Han Do Kwan) still consider \"Joong Kwang Dae Sun Sa\" Jürg Ziegler as their Sin Moo teacher and attend his European seminars.\n\nIn addition, other Sin Moo Grandmasters such as Frank Croaro, Farshad Azad, John Beluschak, Stuart Rosenberg, Sean Bradley, Ian A. Cyrus, and Ramfis Marquez, & Scott Yates continue to preserve the legacy of Sin Moo Hapkido for future generations.\n\nTaeKwon-Do Times Magazine, Cover / History Feature with Ji, Han Jae, November 2013\n\n"}
{"id": "2279923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279923", "title": "Porto Grande Bay", "text": "Porto Grande Bay\n\nPorto Grande Bay (), also Mindelo Bay, is a bay on the north coast of the island of São Vicente, Cape Verde. The main city of São Vicente, Mindelo, is situated at the bay. The Porto Grande Bay is a natural harbour. It stretches between the headlands Ponta João Ribeiro in the northeast and Ponta do Morro Branco in the west. To the northwest it opens towards the Canal de São Vicente, the channel between the islands São Vicente and Santo Antão. The small rocky islet Ilhéu dos Pássaros lies north of the bay.\n\nThe port is owned and operated by ENAPOR, the Cape Verdean port authority. Since the latest modernization in 2014, the port has 4 long quays, 4 shorter quays, a quay for fishing boats with fish processing installations, a container terminal (expanded and modernized in 1997), 2 roll-on/roll-off ramps and 3 passenger terminals. The total length of the quays is 1,560 m, and the maximum depth is 12 m. With 847,602 metric tonnes of cargo and 350,213 passengers handled (2017), it is the busiest port of Cape Verde. There are ferry services to the islands of Santo Antão, São Nicolau, Santiago and Sal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279924", "title": "Jewell Towne Vineyards", "text": "Jewell Towne Vineyards\n\nJewell Towne Vineyards is a winery in the state of New Hampshire. The property is located on the hills overlooking the Powwow River a few miles from the Atlantic Ocean. The property is the oldest currently producing winery in New Hampshire, and is seen as a leader in establishing northern New England cold hardy cultivars.\nIn 1982 Peter Oldak of South Hampton, New Hampshire, a former emergency room physician, planted six grapevines in his backyard to complement his small garden and orchard. With time he concluded the microclimate of his property was very similar to that of the Finger Lakes region of New York and was well suited to growing grapes, despite common misconceptions.\n\nIn 1994 Jewell Towne Vineyards became a licensed commercial enterprise, and the first 40 cases were released. Having made the wine in the Oldak home basement until 1996, the construction of a winery was completed in 1999, containing a wine cellar, bottling room, a large tasting room and a balcony used as an art gallery to exhibit work from local artists.\n\nSince 1994 Jewell Towne Vineyards wines have won an array of awards from national competitions and state fairs.\n\nOldak has also formed the New Hampshire Winery Association, aiming to support local vintners, and works with the University of New Hampshire teaching viticulture and winemaking.\n\nInitially experimenting with more than sixty grape varieties, the number was eventually reduced to approximately twenty of the most varieties deemed most promising by 1990. While a varied selection of grape varieties, there is an emphasis on cold hardy varieties, but also \"Vitis vinifera\" varieties, such as Chardonnay, Gewürztraminer and Riesling. Among the cultivated hybrids are Aurore, Seyval, Vidal blanc, Vignoles and Marechal Foch. Oldak has declared a mission to bring Landot noir back to respectability. In addition to red and white varietal wines, the winery produces blush and ice wines, and a \"port\" that is made from the Chancellor grape.\n\nJewell Towne produces 35,000 bottles a year, requiring more fruit than can possibly be cultivated on the vineyard, and therefore imports roughly 70% of the grapes from New York and California. As the state line dividing New Hampshire and Massachusetts runs through the property, some of the wines bear \"New Hampshire 50% & Massachusetts 50%\" on the label.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279927", "title": "Lucumí", "text": "Lucumí\n\nLucumí or Lukumí may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2279934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279934", "title": "Barren River Lake", "text": "Barren River Lake\n\nBarren River Lake is a , reservoir in Kentucky created by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1964 by impounding the Barren River. The lake occupies parts of Allen, Barren, and Monroe counties.\n\nThe Barren River Lake Dam is an earthen dam, 146 feet high and 3970 feet long at its crest. The U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is responsible for operation and maintenance of the project, and responsible for protection of the resource. A small segment of the property owned by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers is leased to Barren River Lake State Resort Park and lies along a section of shoreline in Barren County.\n\nThe lake has three large islands.\n\nIn the widest part of the lake, there are two large islands, each about one square mile in size. And another smaller island near the main boat ramp and camp-site.\n\nThere is also another, which is sometimes partly connected to the surrounding land, but sometimes surrounded by lake water, depending on water levels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279937", "title": "Manuel Aeschlimann", "text": "Manuel Aeschlimann\n\nManuel Aeschlimann (born 22 October 1964 in Asnières-sur-Seine) is a French politician.\n\nHe began his political career at the early age of 25, as a city councillor in Asnières-sur-Seine. He was appointed first deputy major and went on to be elected mayor of Asnières in 1999. He was defeated when he sought re-election in 2008.\n\nHe was elected deputy to the French National Assembly in June 2002 as a member of the ruling right-wing party UMP. On 17 June 2007, he was reelected deputy with 56.2% of the vote.\n\nHe is a close friend of the French President Nicolas Sarkozy, of whom he was the political adviser in his successful race for president.\n\nA student of Sainte-Croix de Neuilly, he graduated from law at Panthéon-Assas University, and obtained a Master of Law and a \"diplôme d'études approfondies\" (DEA) of political science and public sector law.\n\nLecturer at Assas, he then became a lecturer at the Sciences Po for several years, specialising in electoral strategy. His contract with IEP was terminated in 2007.\n\nAs activist in RPR from 1987, he joined the City Council of Asnières-sur-Seine at the age of 25, and was appointed first deputy mayor. But in 1992, he left the municipal staff, resulting in his exclusion from the RPR. In the same year, he stood in the cantonal elections under the 'Ecology Generation' banner, but was also excluded from this movement. From 1994 to 1999, he was 1st Deputy Mayor of Asnières-sur-Seine from the ruling right coalition. Member of conseil général des Hauts-de-Seine, he chaired the Committee on Culture, Youth and Sports in 1994, and became chairman of the National Coalition of local elected officials for security. He was elected UDF mayor of Asnières-sur-Seine in 1999. He joined the UMP when it was created in 2002.\n\nSince 2006, an investigation is in progress at the brigade suppression of economic crime (OERD) on the electoral roles concerning about 30,000 voters who were sorted by ethnicity for mayor of Asnières. Manuel Aeschlimann, termination three weeks of the elections would not be surprising. He further asserts that all files of the City Council have been declared to the CNIL and that it reserves the right to sue for slander.\n\nIn September 2006, it involves the national police to stop the unrest caused by the city council by the former deputy, Jean-Jacques Semoun, and two other advisers opposition right from the use of a door voice. The site Rue89 speaks of the \"guerrilla Judicial qu'Aeschlimann lead against his opposition.\n\nBeginning in December 2007, the press leaked a report by the regional chamber of accounts Île-de-France. The City Council indicated that the documents were not those given to the regional chamber of accounts.\nThis document calls into question several aspects of the management of the town hall of Asnières-sur-Seine, in particular fiscal weaknesses and heavy indebtedness, excessive consumption of fuel for vehicles in city hall, a vehicle assigned to the wife of the Mayor, generous legal fee claims\" the \"irregular appointment of a technical executive, managing the construction of a parking lot, and a \"conflict of interest\" of his deputy in real estate transactions. The report, delivered by the CRC in September 2007, did not get published before the 1 December deadline, making possible its publication until after the municipal elections of March 2008. The opposition accused the town hall of the desire to cover up the findings of this report.\n\nIn the second round of the 2008 municipal elections, the socialists, MoDem, and assorted right merged their tickets. This coalition was initiated by the joint petition against the non-publication of the report by the regional chamber of accounts. The coalition, led by Sébastien Pietrasanta, finally won the elections in March 2008, with 51.86% of the vote.\n\nThe first municipal council of the newly elected team revealed that the report of the CRC which circulated during the campaign without being officially published was same as that received by Manuel Aeschlimann in September 2007.\n\nIn January 2009, he is condemned to 18 months in prison (suspended), an ineligibility of four years and a euros fine for favoritism in a 1998 public procurement affair. In January 2011, the sentence is confirmed in appeal, the ineligibility being reduced to one year.\n\nAeschlimann was elected Deputy for the 2nd constituency of Hauts-de-Seine in the 12th Legislature (2002-2007) on 16 June 2002, by obtaining 63.63% of votes in second round against Dominique Riera. He served on the Committee on constitutional laws, legislation and general administration of the Republic, and was reappointed Rapporteur for opinion on the budget of local authorities under the annual finance laws.\nHe is a member of the parliamentary groups of studies on asbestos, cancer and the modernisation of French polity.\nHe has put forward legislative proposals on matters including security, and to encourage rehabilitation of property damaged by graffiti, or to strengthen the measures taken against persons guilty of ill - treatment of elderly.\n\nOn 17 June 2007, Aeschlimann was reelected with 56.2% of the votes for the 13th legislature. On 13 March 2009, he was found guilty of favoritism in the awarding of a public contract in 1998 whilst in Asnieres, and sentenced in first instance to 18 months in prison, 4 years of ineligibility for political office and 20 000 euro fine.\n\nManuel Aeschlimann becomes adviser to Nicolas Sarkozy in July 2005 after having established and chaired the committee for monitoring public opinion on the UMP. As such he warns the UMP, through surveys focused on a possible failure to win the referendum on the European constitution.\n\nWithin the 13th legislature term, he analyses and publishes studies of public opinion and members of the UMP majority in the National Assembly.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279938", "title": "Green Door", "text": "Green Door\n\n\"The Green Door\" (or \"Green Door\") is a 1956 popular song with music composed by Bob \"Hutch\" Davie and lyrics written by Marvin Moore. The song was first recorded by Jim Lowe, whose version reached number one on the US pop chart. The lyrics describe the allure of a mysterious private club with a green door, behind which \"a happy crowd\" play piano, smoke and \"laugh a lot\", and inside which the singer is not allowed.\n\nThe hit version of the song in the United States was recorded by Jim Lowe, backed by the orchestra of songwriter Davie, with Davie also playing piano, and by the vocal group the High Fives. The track was arranged by Davie, who added thumbtacks to the hammers of his piano and sped up the tape to give a honky-tonk sound. Released by Dot Records, the single reached #1 on the Billboard charts for one week on November 17, 1956, replacing \"Love Me Tender\" by Elvis Presley.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, Lowe's version reached #8 on the charts, but a version by Frankie Vaughan was even more popular, reaching #2. Another UK recording, by Glen Mason, reached #24 on the UK chart. The most popular British version was by rock and roll revivalist Shakin' Stevens which spent four weeks at number one in August 1981.\n\nGene McDaniels released a version of it as a single in 1960, but it failed to chart. In 1964, Bill Haley & His Comets recorded a version for a single release on Decca Records during an unsuccessful attempt to make a comeback with the label that had made them famous with \"Rock Around the Clock\" (this version was produced by Milt Gabler); Haley and the Comets also recorded an instrumental version in 1962 for the Mexican Orfeon Records label. Country humorist Mayf Nutter re-charted the song in 1973. Crystal Gayle recorded the song in 1977, and it has since become a fan favorite at her concerts. Psychobilly band the Cramps covered the song on their 1981 album, \"Psychedelic Jungle.\" The Spanish pop-punk group Los Nikis made a Spanish version in 1986.\n\nOther versions have been recorded by Roland Alphonso, Wynder K. Frog, Houston and Dorsey, Ray Hamilton, The Promenade Orchestra and Chorus featuring vocals by Joe Seneca, Danny Colfax Mallon, Country Dick Montana, Esquerita, Jumpin' Gene Simmons, Skip & Flip (1961), The Jerms, and Skitzo.\n\nThe singer cannot get any sleep each evening, due to the sound of the music coming from the club. He tries to go there by knocking once on the green door, trying to tell the person behind the door that he had been there before, only to have the door slammed immediately (\"hospitality's thin there\"). Then, through the keyhole, he tries to say the possible secret password \"Joe sent me\" (the password for Hernando's Hideaway), which only results in laughter as he is again rejected admittance into the private club.\n\nThis song was written by Marvin Moore describing a place in Dallas, Texas, where he and Charlie Boland, a sports announcer, climbed a stairway to a green door where a piano played in the background and a man with a huge cigar kept people out unless they had a card of membership in one of the performing arts or unions. In a copy of the original lyrics he actually began using Dallas in the lyric. A copy of said original lyrics, along with an original letter in 1966 from Marvin Moore to Charlie Boland’s daughter explains this to her after she sang the song to Marvin Moore one night over the phone at the age of 9. \n\nAfter the Great Chicago Fire, a tavern opened in Chicago, the Green Door Tavern. During prohibition, this was a popular place to get secret libations. As the door of the tavern is green, the color became a symbol of a speakeasy. During the Prohibition Era many restaurants would paint their doors green to indicate the presence of a speakeasy.\n\nOne suggestion of the song's origins is that it was inspired by an afterhours club in Dallas, Texas, to which lyricist Moore had been refused entry because he did not know the correct password.\n\nAt the time of the song's initial popularity in the 1950s, many believed it was inspired by a green-doored restaurant and bar called \"The Shack\" in Columbia, Missouri, where singer Jim Lowe had attended the University of Missouri. However long-time Shack owner Joe Franke doubts this theory.\n\nAn oft-repeated urban legend has developed saying the song refers to London's first lesbian club, Gateways (1930–1985), which was in Bramerton Street in Chelsea. It had a green door and was featured in the film \"The Killing of Sister George\". But aside from that there is no substantive connection between the 1950s American song and the British club.\n\nIn \"The Green Door\", a short story by O. Henry from his 1906 book \"The Four Million,\" a man named Rudolf Steiner is handed a mysterious card reading, \"The Green Door.\" On entering the door he meets a starving young woman. He quickly rushes out and returns laden with food, and they become friends over supper; finally Steiner promises to visit her again the next day and there is romance in the offing. Eventually it turns out that the card was an advertisement for an entirely different \"Green Door\", a theatre play. O. Henry uses the eponymous green door as a symbol for everyday adventures which he encourages us to seek out.\n\nIt is also possible that the song is a reference to an H. G. Wells short story, \"The Door in the Wall.\"\n\n\"Behind the Green Door\" (1940) is a Penny Parker mystery novel by Mildred Wirt Benson. In the novel, the secret door hides some illegal activity at a ski-resort hotel; no music or vice is involved in this book aimed at adolescent girls. It was reprinted in 1951, a few years before the song appeared.\n\nFitz-James O'Brien's short story, \"The Lost Room\", details a man being locked out of his own room by a group of demons and bears some similarity to the themes of the song.\n\nIt is also the name of a letter written by David Berg, the former leader of the cult once called the Children of God and later renamed \"The Family\"—he used it as a metaphorical door to hell.\n\n\"Behind the Green Door\" is a 1972 pornographic film starring Marilyn Chambers. In 1986 \"\" was released and in 2012 \"New Behind the Green Door\".\n\nThere are bars, taverns and saloons named \"The Green Door\" in many American locations, including Cheyenne, Wyoming, New York City, Park Hall, Maryland, Chicago, Illinois and Lansing, Michigan.\n\nWithin the American intelligence community, \"green door\" is a slang verb and adjective, relating to the restriction of an individual's or organization's access to information and/or locations: \"We green doored them,\" or \"The situation has been highlighted by the 'Green Door' compartmentation and exclusion\". This meaning was alluded to in episode 4 of \"Ashes to Ashes\", set in 1981, when Shakin' Stevens' cover played whilst the protagonist police detectives sneaked out of a top-secret MOD research centre.\n\nIt was also featured in Quentin Tarantino’s 2019 film, \"Once Upon a Time in Hollywood\", sung by the fictional actor Rick Dalton during a segment on \"Hullaballoo.\"\n"}
{"id": "2279945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279945", "title": "Otto von Below", "text": "Otto von Below\n\nOtto Ernst Vinzent Leo von Below (18 January 1857 – 15 March 1944) was a Prussian general officer in the Imperial German Army during the First World War. He was most notable for his command, along with the Austro-Hungarian commander Svetozar Borojević, during the victorious Battle of Caporetto.\n\nVon Below was born in Danzig (now Gdańsk). Before the war broke out, he was promoted \"Generalmajor\" in 1909 and \"Generalleutnant\" in 1912. He was commanding 2nd Infantry Division immediately prior to the outbreak of war.\n\nOn 1 August 1914, at the outbreak of the First World War, Below was given command of I Reserve Corps as part of 8th Army on the Eastern Front. He led his Corps in the Battles of Gumbinnen, Tannenberg and the Masurian Lakes. As a result of his successes, he was promoted to \"General der Infanterie\" at the end of August 1914 and to command of 8th Army at the beginning of November.\n\nBelow commanded the 8th Army in the Second Battle of the Masurian Lakes (February 1915) and the Army of the Niemen (later renamed 8th Army) in the Courland Offensive (May 1915). His forces advanced into Courland and Lithuania as far as the southern reaches of the Western Dvina River.\n\nIn October 1916, Below was appointed to the command of Heeresgruppe Below on the Macedonian Front, consisting of the German 11th Army and the First and Second Bulgarian Armies. In April 1917, he was briefly sent to the Western Front to command 6th Army around Lille.\n\nBelow next served on the Italian Front from September 1917. Commanding the Austro-German 14th Army (seven German and 10 Austro-Hungarian divisions) in the Battle of Caporetto, his units were able to break into the Italian front line and rout the Italian army, which had practically no mobile reserves. The battle was a demonstration of the effectiveness of the use of stormtroopers and the infiltration tactics developed in part by Oskar von Hutier. The use of poison gas by the Germans played a key role in the collapse of the Italian Second Army. A breakdown in German logistics brought the battle to a close on the line of the Piave River and the front soon froze again in trench warfare.\n\nIn February 1918, Below was brought back to the Western Front to command the newly formed 17th Army for the \"Kaiserschlacht\" Offensive. Below was expected to overrun Arras during March 1918 in a repeat of Caporetto; his inability to do so led to the failure of the German campaign to capture the Somme that same month. Attacking the stronger, better prepared British Third Army, he had less success than forces further south facing the British Fifth Army.\n\nIn January 1918 he made the following revolutionary proposal to Ludendorff: \"Forget about the offensive and shorten the front lines as much as necessary; build Panzers throughout all of 1918 and, with your Panzer squadrons, break through all the way to the Channel coast in the Spring of 1919\". Below briefly commanded the 1st Army. Shortly before the war's end, Below was involved in preparations for a possible final battle on German territory (Home Defense Forces West).\n\nBelow was awarded the \"Pour le Mérite\" on 16 February 1915 \"for outstanding leadership and distinguished military planning and successful operations\", and the Oakleaves (signifying a second award) on 27 April 1917. In addition to the \"Pour le Mérite\", Below was also awarded the Order of the Black Eagle on 1 November 1917 and the Iron Cross, 1st and 2nd class.\n\nBelow retired in 1919. A post-war attempt by the Allies to try him as a war criminal failed. Otto von Below died on 9 March 1944 in Friedland, Lower Saxony.\n\nBelow was the cousin of Fritz von Below, another German commander during the war. The two Generals are often confused.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279951", "title": "Singing the Blues", "text": "Singing the Blues\n\n\"Singing the Blues\" is a popular song written by Melvin Endsley and published in 1956. The song was first recorded and released by Marty Robbins in 1956. (It is not related to the 1920 jazz song \"Singin' the Blues\" recorded by Frank Trumbauer and Bix Beiderbecke in 1927.)\n\nThe best-known recording was released in October 1956 by Guy Mitchell and spent ten weeks at number 1 on the U.S. \"Billboard\" chart from December 8, 1956, to February 2, 1957. An example of the U.S. recording is on Columbia #40769, dated 1956, with the Ray Conniff Orchestra. Mitchell's version was also number 1 in the UK Singles Chart for three (non-consecutive) weeks in early 1957, one of only four singles to rise to number 1 on the chart on three separate occasions, with the other three being \"I Believe\" by Frankie Laine, \"Happy\" by Pharrell Williams and \"What Do You Mean?\" by Justin Bieber. Mitchell's version prominently features whistling in the intro and solo sections.\n\nTwo other charting versions of the song were released almost simultaneously with Mitchell's, one by the English singer Tommy Steele (with the Steelmen) and the other (recorded before Mitchell covered it) by US country singer Marty Robbins.\nTommy Steele's version of \"Singing the Blues\" made number 1 in the UK Singles Chart for one week on 11 January 1957, sandwiched by two of the weeks that Guy Mitchell's version of the same song topped the charts. Steele's recording of the song was not a chart success in the US.\n\nThe Marty Robbins version made it to number one on the \"Billboard\" C&W Best Sellers chart for 13 weeks in late 1956 and early 1957 and peaked at number seventeen on the US pop chart. In 1983, Gail Davies recorded a cover version, taking her version into the top 20 of the Hot Country Singles chart in the spring of 1983.\n\nThe song is often revived, and on three occasions new recordings of \"Singing the Blues\" have become UK Top 40 hits. These latter-day hit versions were by Dave Edmunds (1980), Gail Davies (1983), Daniel O'Donnell (1994), and Cliff Richard & the Shadows (2009).\n\nTrumpeter Bob Scobey and banjoist/vocalist Clancy Hayes recorded a trad jazz version in 1958 for the LP \"Scobey and Clancy raid the Jukebox\" on the Good Time Jazz label. Other notable cover versions include a 1960 recording by Bill Haley & his Comets, a 1963 version by Dean Martin, and a 1971 version by Black Oak Arkansas. It was recorded by Marie Osmond for her 1975 album \"In My Little Corner of the World\", by Gene Summers on his 1981 French album \"Gene Summers in Nashville\", by Randy Travis on his 1989 album \"No Holdin' Back\", and by The Kentucky Headhunters for their album \"Stompin' Grounds\" (1997). A version by Bert Jansch appears on his 2000 release \"Crimson Moon\". Frank Ifield, Max Bygraves and Slim Whitman also recorded the song.\n\n\"Singing the Blues\" was performed live by Paul McCartney on the MTV show \"Unplugged\" in 1991 and included on the subsequent soundtrack, \"Unplugged (The Official Bootleg)\".\n\nHank Snow did it on his 1969 album on RCA \"I Went To Your Wedding\".\n\nThe song was also performed by Albert Lee.\n\nThe tune was also sung by Vivian Vance and William Frawley (Ethel and Fred of \"I Love Lucy\" fame) for a Ford Motor Company television commercial promoting the Edsel.\n\nThe Californian pop punk band Groovie Ghoulies covered the song on their third album \"World Contact Day\" in 1996.\n\nThe first line of this song is famously the last line of \"London Calling\" by the Clash, cut short and echoed in the final mix of the song (\"I never felt so much a-like, a-like, a-like...\").\n\nHugues Aufray and his Skiffle Group recorded a French version of the song, \"Tout le long du chemin\", in 1964.\n\nBirmingham City-supporting radio presenters Tom Ross and Ian Danter released a version to celebrate the club's promotion to the Premier League. It has been sung since at least the 1969 season by fans of the Midlands club. Blackburn Rovers fans have been known to sing a version of the song: \"Never felt more like singing the blues, the Rovers win and Burnley lose, oh Rovers, you've got me singing the blues.\" Everton fans sing a version of this song; \"I've never felt more like singing the blues, when Everton win and Liverpool lose, oh Everton you've got me singing the blues.\" Also this song is commonly used at Manchester City football matches, where the fans sing: \"Never felt more like singing the blues, City win, United lose.\" This song has also been used by Sheffield Wednesday fans. Their lyrics are: \"Never felt more like singing the blues, When Wednesday win, United lose.\" Former Wednesday player Terry Curran recorded a version of the song that is still used at Hillsborough to this day. Ipswich Town fans also use the song and the club recorded their own version of it, with the chorus being \"I've never felt more like singing the Blues, When Ipswich win and Norwich lose, Oh Ipswich you've got me singing the blues\".\n"}
{"id": "2279953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279953", "title": "Mary of Jesus of Ágreda", "text": "Mary of Jesus of Ágreda\n\nMary of Jesus of Ágreda (), OIC, also known as the Abbess of Ágreda (2 April 160224 May 1665), was a Franciscan abbess and spiritual writer, known especially for her extensive correspondence with King Philip IV of Spain and reports of her bilocation between Spain and its colonies in New Spain. She was a noted mystic of her era.\n\nA member of the Order of the Immaculate Conception, also known as Conceptionists, Mary of Jesus wrote 14 books, including a series of revelations about the life of the Blessed Virgin Mary. Her bilocation activity is said to have occurred between her cloistered monastery in rural Spain and the Jumano Indians of central New Mexico and West Texas, and inspired many Franciscan missionaries in the New World. In popular culture since the 17th century, she has been dubbed the Lady in Blue and the Blue Nun, after the color of her order's habit.\n\nShe was born María Coronel y de Arana, the daughter of Francisco Coronel, a \"converso\" of Jewish descent, and Catalina de Arana, in Ágreda, a town located in the Province of Soria. The couple had 11 children, of whom only four survived into adulthood: Francisco, José, María and Jerónima. Maria later described her mother as the more lively of the two, though both were very fervent in their faith. The family had close ties with the Franciscan friars of the Friary of San Julián, which lay on the outskirts of the town. Either the mother would go to the friary with her children for Mass and confession, or the friars would visit the family home. Nonetheless, Mary later recalled that, as a very young child, she felt her parents were very hard on her.\n\nMary of Jesus' biographer and contemporary, the bishop José Jiménez y Samaniego, was a longtime friend of the Coronel family, and testified that even as a young girl Mary was filled with divine knowledge. From her early years, he wrote, she had ecstasies and visions in which she felt that God was instructing her about the sinfulness of the world, a conviction which would last throughout her life. At the age of four, she was confirmed by Diego de Yepes, a bishop and the biographer and last confessor of Teresa of Avila, who was reportedly impressed with the child's spiritual acumen. It was at this point in her life that she felt a growing warmth in her parents' attitudes toward her.\n\nWhen Mary of Jesus was twelve, she made the decision to enter a monastery, having decided upon that of the Discalced Carmelite nuns in Tarazona. As her parents prepared to accompany her there, Catalina de Arana had a vision that she was to turn the family home into a monastery in which both she and her daughters were to commit their lives as nuns. While the young María was agreeable to this arrangement, her father refused to go along with it. In this he was supported by his brother, Medel, as well as by their neighbors, who all considered this arrangement a violation of their marriage vows. His resistance lasted for three years, until in 1618, then considered an older man in his early fifties, he (and later his brother) entered the Franciscan Friary of San Antonio in Nalda as a lay brother. Her brothers, who had already become friars, continued their studies toward the Catholic priesthood in Burgos. Mary of Jesus later recalled that this period had been one of severe trial for her spiritual life and had led to a certain sense of vanity.\n\nCatalina and her daughters then converted their family home into the , to be a part of the Order of the Immaculate Conception. The choice of this Order was a part of the huge devotion to the Immaculate Conception of Mary which marked Spanish spirituality of that period. They began this endeavor as part of the Discalced—or reformed—branch of the Order. Unfortunately, there were no monasteries of this branch in the region, so three nuns of the original Calced branch were brought from their monastery in Burgos to serve as the abbess of the community and to train them in the life of the Order. Mary of Jesus later judged that this had given a bad start to the enterprise, as these nuns were to teach them a way of life they had neither known nor practiced. Mary of Jesus was 16 when she and her mother and sister took the religious habit of the Order and she was given the religious name by which she is now known. She felt, though, that she had to make up for her years of laxity during the period of contention between her parents and the delay in the foundation of the monastery resulting from it.\n\nAs other women soon joined the community, the monastery was rebuilt (and completed in 1633), although when reconstruction began the community's coffers contained 24 reales (approximately 2.5 Spanish dollars at the time), supplemented by a donation of 100 reales from devotees and many other gifts and hours of voluntary labor. Once she had made her religious profession in 1620, Mary of Jesus began to experience a long period of illness and temptations. After her mother's death, Mary of Jesus, then aged 25, was appointed the Superior \"locum tenens\", after which her fellow nuns elected her as their abbess. Though rules required the abbess to be changed every three years, Mary remained effectively in charge of the monastery until her death, except for a three-year sabbatical in her fifties.\n\nThroughout her life, Mary of Jesus was inclined to the \"internal prayer\" or \"quiet prayer\". Like her countrywoman Teresa of Avila a generation earlier, these prayerful experiences led to religious ecstasies, including reported accounts of levitation. As this form of prayer was practiced frequently among women, the Inquisition kept a watchful eye on those who advocated the practice.\n\nMaría de Ágreda's best known single work is the \"Mystical City of God\" (Spanish: \"Mistica Ciudad de Dios, Vida de la Virgen María\"), consisting of eight books (six volumes). This related her revelations about the terrestrial and heavenly life, received directly from (dictated by) the Blessed Virgin Mary. The books include information about the relationship of the 'Blessed Virgin' with the Triune God, as well as the doings and Mysteries performed by Jesus as God-Man in flesh and in Spirit. The narrative contains extensive details and covers the New Testament time line. It also relates advice given by the Holy Mother on how to acquire true sanctity.\n\nThe \"Mystical City of God\", the biography of Mary, is now frequently studied in college and university programs of Spanish language and culture, for its contribution to Baroque literature. Written in elegant Spanish, it relates both terrestrial and spiritual details, many either not known or not totally accepted at the time. These included the way the earth looks from the space (contained in her unpublished 17th Century \"Tratado de rendondez de la Tierra\"); the Immaculate Conception of Virgin Mary, the Assumption of Mary, the duties of Michael the Archangel and Gabriel the Archangel; and meticulous detail on the childhood of Jesus. Other details that Mary related concerned Christ's Passion, Resurrection and Ascension.\n\nIn addition to her 14 published works, Mary of Jesus also served as the spiritual (and sometimes political) advisor to King Philip IV of Spain, at his request and for more than 22 years. Their surviving correspondence includes over 600 letters.\n\nBetween 1620 and 1623, Mary of Jesus reported that she was often \"transported by the aid of the angels\" to settlements of a people called Jumanos. The Jumano Indians of New Spain (what is today Texas and New Mexico) had long been requesting missionaries, possibly hoping for protection from the Apaches. Eventually a mission led by the Franciscan Friar Juan de Salas visited them in 1629.\n\nThe abbess reported further but less frequent visits afterwards, all while she physically remained in the monastery at Ágreda. They thus are considered bilocations, an event where a person is, or seems to be, in two places at the same time.\nBefore sending the friars, Father Alonzo de Benavides, Custodian of New Mexico, asked the natives why they were so eager to be baptized. They said they had been visited by a Lady in Blue who had told them to ask the fathers for help, pointing to a painting of a nun in a blue habit and saying she was dressed like that but was a beautiful young girl. The Jumanos visiting Isleta indicated that the Lady in Blue had visited them in the area now known as the Salinas National Monument, south of modern-day Mountainair, New Mexico, about 65 miles south of Albuquerque. \nAt the same time, Fray Esteban de Perea brought Benavides an inquiry from Sor María's confessor in Spain asking whether there was any evidence that she had visited the Jumanos.\n\nAs reports of Mary's mystical excursions to the New World proliferated, the Inquisition took notice, although she was not proceeded against with severity, perhaps because of her long written relationship with the Spanish king.\n\nAccounts of Mary's mystical apparitions in the American Southwest, as well as inspiring passages in \"Mystical City of God\", so stirred 17th and 18th century missionaries that they credited her in their own life's work, making her an integral part of the colonial history of the United States.\n\nLess than ten years after her death, Mary of Jesus was declared Venerable by Pope Clement X, in honor of her \"heroic life of virtue\". Although the process of beatification was opened in 1673, it has not as yet been completed.\n\nVarious misinterpretations of Mary's writings led to the \"Mystical City of God\" being placed on the Church's \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" in August 1681, due to a faulty French translation published in 1678. The placement on the list of forbidden books proved temporary.\nThe tradition of the apostle St James and the shrine of El Pilar, reputed to be the first church dedicated to Mary, was given by Our Lady in an apparition to Sister Mary Agreda recorded in The Mystical City of God, and is credited with instigating the rebuilding of the fire-damaged Cathedral Basilica in Zaragosa in the Baroque style in 1681 by Charles II, King of Spain, completed and rededicated in 1686.\n\nWhen Mary of Jesus's casket was opened in 1909, a cursory scientific examination was performed on the 17th century abbess's body. In 1989, a Spanish physician named Andreas Medina participated in another examination of the remains and told investigative journalist Javier Sierra in 1991: \"What most surprised me about that case is that when we compared the state of the body, as it was described in the medical report from 1909, with how it appeared in 1989, we realized it had absolutely not deteriorated at all in the last eighty years.\" Investigators took photographs and other evidence before re-sealing her casket, which remains on display in the monastery church. Some consider that incorruptibility, that is, lack of normal rot and decay after death, further evidence of sanctity.\n\nThe abbess is considered \"Venerable\". After the 400th anniversary of her birth in 2002, several groups (including The Spanish Mariology Society, The Society of Our Lady of the Most Holy Trinity, The Knights of Columbus, The American Council for the Mystical City of God and The Working Group for the Beatification of Sister Maria de Jesus de Agreda) renewed attempts to move her beatification process forward.\n\nSan Angelo, Texas, credits the abbess as a pioneering force behind the establishment of early Texas missions. Jumano Native Americans reminisce about her role in their survival, and her possible connection to the legend of Texas's state flower, the bluebonnet.\n\nShe is featured in a work of fiction, \"The Lady in Blue\" (\"La Dama Azul\"), by Javier Sierra (Atria Books, 2005/07, ), as well as in the English biography \"Maria of Agreda: Mystical Lady in Blue\" (University of New Mexico Press, 2009). She also served as the inspiration for the novel, \"\"Blue Water Woman\"\" by Ken Farmer (Timber Creek Press, 2016, ), book #7 of The Nations series.\n\nIn his memoirs, the 18th-century Italian adventurer Giacomo Casanova describes reading the \"Mystical City of God\" during his imprisonment in the Venetian prison I Piombi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279963", "title": "Flemish Government", "text": "Flemish Government\n\nThe Flemish Government (Dutch: ) is the executive branch of the Flemish Community and the Flemish Region of Belgium. It consists of a government cabinet, headed by the Minister-President and accountable to the Flemish Parliament, and the public administration (civil service) divided into 13 policy areas, each with an executive department and multiple agencies.\n\nThe Flemish Government cabinet consists of up to a maximum of eleven ministers, chosen by the Flemish Parliament. At least one minister must come from Brussels. The ministers are drawn from the political parties which, in practice, form the governing coalition. The Government is chaired by the Flemish Minister-President. Ministers head executive departments of the government administration. Ministers must defend their policies and performance in person before the Flemish Parliament. The Flemish Government must receive and keep the confidence of the Flemish Parliament.\nUntil 1993 the Flemish Government was called the Flemish Executive (\"Vlaamse Executieve\").\n\nFollowing the 7 June 2009 election, CD&V (31 seats), N-VA (16 seats) and SP.A (19 seats) parties formed a coalition. \n\nFollowing the 2004 election, (29 seats)/ (6 seats), / (25 seats) and (19 seats) parties formed a coalition.\n\n\nThe composition at the end of the legislature:\nAfter the regional elections of 1999, a coalition of VLD, SP, Agalev and the VU was formed with Patrick Dewael (VLD) as Minister-President.\n\nAfter the federal elections of June 2003, Patrick Dewael resigned as Minister-President and went to the federal political level. He was succeeded by Bart Somers as Flemish Minister-President until the end of term in 2004. Due to changes in political parties, the coalition was different:\n\nAfter the regional elections of 1995 (which were the first direct elections for the Flemish Parliament), a coalition of CVP and SP was formed.\n\nThe \"Flemish administration\" (Dutch: \"Vlaamse overheid\") denotes the Flemish civil service. With the 2006 reform program \"Better Administrative Policy\" (Dutch: \"\"), the Flemish civil service is designed to make the Flemish public administration more efficient and transparent.\n\nThe tasks of the Flemish public administration are now organised in 13 policy areas. Each policy area comprises a department and a number of (semi-) independent government agencies. Only those with their own article are mentioned below.\n\nThe 11 policy areas are:\n\n\nSeveral other institutes, such as the Flemish Opera and the Flemish Institute for Technological Research (VITO), were not incorporated into the above structure.\n\nEvery year, the Minister-President presents the current state of affairs in Flanders and the Government's plans for next year during the September Declaration on the fourth Monday in September.\n\nThe below figures use the 2018 budget as example, which had €44.7 billion in expenses and €42.3 billion in revenue.\n\nThe revenue commes from the following sources:\n\nThe expenses are as follows per policy area:\nThe Flemish Government owns the rights to Flanders Today, an English-speaking online and print newspaper focused on current affairs in Flanders and Brussels. The project was launched in 2007 by Geert Bourgeois – then Minister of Foreign Affairs and Tourism -, for three main reasons:\nIn May 2017, the Flemish Government announced it wouldn’t be rebidding the Flanders Today project. Both the print and the online version of the paper are to be shut down in October 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279966", "title": "Queen Victoria School", "text": "Queen Victoria School\n\nQueen Victoria School (QVS) is a non-selective, co-educational, boarding school predominantly for children of Scottish Servicemen/women (but see full admissions criteria, below) aged 10/11 to 18. It occupies a Scottish Baronial-style building on a rural campus just outside Dunblane, a short distance away from the city of Stirling, Scotland. It is the only school in the United Kingdom managed and funded by the Ministry of Defence (Duke of York's Royal Military School in Kent is now managed by the DfE).\n\nThe idea of the school was originally proposed to Queen Victoria as a memorial to the Scottish dead of the Boer Wars, and after her death it was thought fit to name it in her memory. With the support of former politician Robert Cranston, money was raised from Scottish servicemen and the people of Scotland to complete the project. Queen Victoria School was opened on 28 September 1908 by King Edward VII. The Chapel was completed in 1910 and is Scotland’s memorial to Queen Victoria. Girls were admitted in the 1996-97 academic year into all years and the first female senior monitor, Victoria Harris, was elected in 1999.\n\nOriginally only sons (and subsequently daughters) of Scottish Service personnel were eligible to apply for entry to QVS. Today the school is not only open to applications from children of regular UK Armed Forces personnel who are Scottish, but also those who have served in Scotland or are/have been part of a Scottish Regiment. Individuals without a formal Scottish link may also apply.\n\nQVS uses the Scottish curriculum for excellence and pupils are prepared for National Qualifications (Nat 4-5), Highers and Advanced Highers.\n\nTraditionally the school provided an austere but continuous education for Scottish war orphans, with a good deal of military training and sports. Since the Second World War, the school has provided an education to children whose parents or guardians have been travelling the world in the Armed Forces.\n\nA strong military ethos is still maintained by a competing pipe band and Combined Cadet Force (CCF) section. The school has its own \"colours\" which are paraded nearly every Sunday during term times in the school chapel, its own cap badge, and pupils wear the Clan Stewart hunting tartan. The school pipe band used to play at every rugby home international at Murrayfield Stadium, Edinburgh.\n\nThe house system is based on the boarding programme as all pupils are boarders. Boarding is available to pupils aged 10 (Primary 7) and above. There are four houses:\nFormer students of Queen Victoria School are referred to as Old Victorians. See also .\n\n"}
{"id": "2279985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279985", "title": "Hugh Dan MacLennan", "text": "Hugh Dan MacLennan\n\nHugh Dan MacLennan (Scottish Gaelic: \"Ùisdean MacIllFhinnein\") is a Scottish broadcaster, author and sporting academic with specific interest in the sport of shinty. A fluent Gaelic speaker from Lochaber, he attended the University of Glasgow before going on to teach Gaelic in Millburn Academy, Inverness (later becoming Principal Teacher) and then going to work with BBC Radio nan Gaidheal. He has been Secretary of the Gaelic Society of Inverness and both director and vice president of the Camanachd Association and was director of communications for Caledonian MacBrayne. In 1998 was awarded a PhD by the University of Aberdeen. McLennan is chief presenter and co-hosts the quiz show on Aibisidh on BBC Alba with Mary Anne McDonald. MacLennan has made several guest appearances on BBC Scotland programmes on life in the Scotland.\n\nHe has written several books and papers on the subject of shinty. He also played the game himself, appearing for Fort William and the Glasgow University Shinty Club.\n\nMacLennan also commentates on Pro14 rugby matches on BBC Alba and many non Gaelic speakers often comment on his near legendary performances such is the excitement and passion he brings to the sport, particularly when commenting on the play of Glasgow Warriors Fijian Scrum Half Niko Matawalu.\nSince 2012 MacLennan has presented \"Aibisidh\", a quiz show on BBC Alba.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2279986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279986", "title": "Don't Turn Away", "text": "Don't Turn Away\n\nDon't Turn Away is the first album by the American punk rock band Face to Face. It was released in 1992 (see 1992 in music) under the label Dr. Strange Records, and was considered a strong debut for the band. It was re-released a year later on Fat Wreck Chords.\n\nTwo years later, \"Disconnected\", the album's third track, was re-recorded for the band's second album \"Big Choice\". Their then-label A&M Records wanted the band to re-record it, because no one could \"hear a single\" until the L.A. radio station KROQ first played it.\n\n\n\n\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2279989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279989", "title": "Beaver Lake (Kentucky)", "text": "Beaver Lake (Kentucky)\n\nBeaver Lake is a 158 acre (64 ha) reservoir in Anderson County, Kentucky. Created in 1963, it is owned by the Kentucky Department of Fish and Wildlife Resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "2279994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279994", "title": "Insane delusion", "text": "Insane delusion\n\nInsane delusion is the legal term of art in the common law tradition used to describe a false conception of reality that a testator of a will adheres to against all reason and evidence to the contrary. A will made by a testator suffering from an insane delusion that affects the provisions made in the will may fail in whole or in part. Only the portion of the will caused by the insane delusion fails, including potentially the entire will. Will contests often involve claims that the testator was suffering from an insane delusion. \n\nAn insane delusion is distinct from testamentary capacity. A testator might be suffering from an insane delusion but otherwise possess the requisite capacity to make a will. Similarly, an insane delusion is distinct from a mere mistake. If suffering from an insane delusion, a testator is not subject to change his or her mind regarding the delusion if presented with contrary evidence, whereas a mistake is capable of being corrected if the testator is told the truth. Additionally, while an insane delusion may cause portions of a will to fail, most courts will not reform or invalidate a will because of a mistake unless it was the result of fraud.\n\nThe insane delusion concept was created in the 1826 British case \"Dew v. Clark\". In that case, a father believed that his daughter was \"the devil incarnate\" and disinherited her in his will of 1818. After her father's death, evidence presented by the daughter showed that she was well known for her good disposition and that her father had falsely told others that he lavished his daughter with praise and wealth. The probate court found that the father's mindset when he made the 1818 will was normal in all respects except toward his daughter. The court found that his thoughts about her, \"did and could only proceed from, and be founded in, insanity,\" a \"partial insanity\" that only extended to his thoughts about his daughter and caused him to disinherit her. The court said that this delusion caused the will to fail.\n\nIn the 1854 case \"Addington v. Wilson\", the Indiana Supreme Court held that a testator who disinherited his daughters because he believed them to be witches was not for that reason alone so insane as to deem him incapable of making a valid will. The court justified its decision by pointing to distinguished jurists and religious figures who affirmed the possibility of witchcraft; if these people's beliefs did not render them insane, neither did the testator's.\n\nIn \"In re Robertson's Estate\" (1948), the Supreme Court of Oklahoma held that a testator who declared that he had \"no children\" and \"no deceased children\" in his will, when he actually had two living children, was suffering from an insane delusion, as the testator had \"no rational basis whatsoever\" to declare that he had no children.\n"}
{"id": "2279996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2279996", "title": "Hanunoo", "text": "Hanunoo\n\nHanunoo may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280005", "title": "Rutt Bridges", "text": "Rutt Bridges\n\nRutt Bridges is an American geophysicist and politician from Colorado and a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nBridges began his career with Chevron Corporation, then founded Advance Geophysical in 1980. He achieved success with the software products MicroMAX and ProMAX, both used for the processing of seismic data for the petroleum exploration industry. In recognition of his business accomplishments, he was awarded the Enterprise Award in 1991 by the Society of Exploration Geophysicists He is also the chairman of Quest Capital, a private venture capital fund \n\nIn 1999, Bridges founded the Bighorn Center, to \"give Colorado's political middle a credible and legitimate voice in the state's increasingly polarized landscape and more importantly, to get things done.\" The Bighorn Center closed in 2006, but the very successful bi-partisan Bighorn Leadership Program is still providing leadership training and development at Colorado State University. In 2004 Bridges ran for the U.S. Senate in Colorado, but stepped aside and supported fellow Democrat and friend Ken Salazar, who went on to win the seat. Looking to the 2006 election, he declared his candidacy for Governor of Colorado. However, he dropped out of the race on August 8, 2005, telling supporters \"My passion has always been public policy, not politics.\"\n\nAlong with Tim Gill, Jared Polis, and Pat Stryker, Bridges has been named as one of the \"four millionaires\" responsible for donating large sums of money through 527 groups to Democratic Party-related causes in Colorado. They are credited with helping the Democrats to win control of the Colorado General Assembly in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "2280006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280006", "title": "Ordine Nuovo", "text": "Ordine Nuovo\n\nOrdine Nuovo (Italian for \"New Order\"), (full name Centro Studi Ordine Nuovo, \"New Order Scholarship Center\") was an Italian far right cultural and extra-parliamentary political and paramilitary organization founded by Pino Rauti in 1956. It had been the most important extra-parliamentary far-right organization of the post-war Italian republic.\n\nThe name is shared by Movimento Politico Ordine Nuovo, a splinter group of Centro Studi Ordine Nuovo.\n\nThe organization, considered as an attempt at reforming the Fascist Party (banned by the Constitution), was forcibly dissolved by the Italian government in 1973. Remaining elements of the group formed the Ordine Nero (\"Black Order\") in 1974.\n\nMembers and a leader of Movimento Politico Ordine Nuovo participated in several terrorist attacks. These include the 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing, the 1970 Rome-Messina train attack, a grenade attack at a 1974 anti-fascist rally, and the 1974 Italicus Express bombing.\n\nPreviously, \"L'Ordine Nuovo\" (\"The New Order\") had been the name of a radical left-wing paper edited by Antonio Gramsci in the early 1920s, with Gramsci's followers being nicknamed \"ordinovisti\". However, later on the term - in Italian and various other languages - was appropriated by Fascists and Nazis, its original left-wing predecessors forgotten.\n\nThe extreme right-wing organization here referred to, whose members were also nicknamed \"ordinovisti\", though being the political opposite of the earlier ones, was born from an internal current and then a schism in the Movimento Sociale Italiano (MSI). In 1954 Arturo Michelini, a moderate seeking an alliance with the Italian Monarchic Party, and possibly with the Christian Democracy, became general secretary of the MSI. This led to the schism of the most intransigent and spiritualist, Evolian current (Nazism was also a reference), led by Pino Rauti, Lello Graziani and Sergio Baldassini. They refused any compromise that brought the party apart from aristocratic principles. The intransigent and spiritualist Ordine Nuovo was then founded in Rome, but still a part of the MSI.\n\nThe real break with MSI happened at the MSI congress in Milan in 1956. Pino Rauti declared that, being disappointed with the moderate drift of the MSI, his movement would abandon the political scene, creating the \"Centro Studi Ordine Nuovo\", an association dedicated to \"political studies and analysis\". This wanted to be a literal application of the theses of Julius Evola, that is, an aristocratic refusal of contemporary, materialist society. Ordine Nuovo, nonetheless, had a capillary and hierarchical organization on the Italian territory, and often behaved more like an extra-parliamentary political organization than a simple \"scholarship center\".\n\nIn the 1969, Rauti, along with most of Ordine Nuovo, came back in the MSI party, then led by Giorgio Almirante. The remaining hardliners founded Movimento Politico Ordine Nuovo (\"New Order Political Movement\").\n\nThe motto of Ordine Nuovo was \"Il nostro onore si chiama fedeltà\", or \"Our honour is named loyalty\", also the motto of the Waffen SS (\"Meine Ehre heißt Treue\"). The symbol of the organization was a double-head axe.\n\nSeveral members of Movimento Politico Ordine Nuovo, including one of its leaders, Pierluigi Concutelli, participated in terrorist attacks.\n\nOn 12 December 1969, people belonging to or sympathizing for Ordine Nuovo placed a bomb in Piazza Fontana in Milan, killing 16 and wounding 90. This bombing marked the beginning of the \"strategy of tension\" in Italy. \"Ordine Nuovo\" member Delfo Zorzi was among those convicted for the crime on June 20, 2001, together with Carlo Maria Maggi and Giancarlo Rognoni, but all were later found not guilty in 2004.\n\nIn July 1970, members of Ordine Nuovo bombed the Rome-Messina train, killing 6 and wounding 100.\n\nIn May 1974 eight activists were killed in Brescia when an anti-fascist protest was taking place in the municipal square. Due to a bomb placed in a trash bin, 8 people died from the explosion, over a hundred were wounded. On May 19, 2005, the Corte di Cassazione confirmed the arrest warrant against Delfo Zorzi, a former \"Ordine Nuovo\" member, who was also suspected of being the material perpetrator of the 1969 Piazza Fontana bombing. Alongside Delfo Zorzi, his neo-fascist comrades Carlo Maria Maggi and Maurizio Tramonte, all members of \"Ordine Nuovo\", are also suspected of having organized the Piazza della Loggia bombing in Brescia.\n\nOn 4 August 1974 a Ferrovie dello Stato train was bombed in the early morning hours killing 12 and wounding 48. The following day, Ordine Nero (The new Ordine nuovo) claimed responsibility\n\nIn a written statement they said\n\nWe took revenge for Giancarlo Esposti. We wanted to show the nation that we can place a bomb anywhere we want, whenever and however we please. Let us see in autumn; we will drown democracy under a mountain of dead.\n\nGiancarlo Esposti was killed on 30 May 1974 according to Novopress.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280008", "title": "Odo Russell, 1st Baron Ampthill", "text": "Odo Russell, 1st Baron Ampthill\n\nOdo William Leopold Russell, 1st Baron Ampthill, (20 February 182925 August 1884), styled Lord Odo Russell between 1872 and 1881, was a British diplomat and the first British Ambassador to the German Empire.\n\nRussell was born in Florence, Tuscany, into the Russell family, one of England's leading Whig aristocratic families. His father was Major-General Lord George Russell, second son of the 6th Duke of Bedford. His mother was Elizabeth Anne Rawdon, daughter of the Honourable John Theophilus Rawdon and niece of the 1st Marquess of Hastings. His uncle was the 1st Earl Russell, twice Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. His education, like that of his two brothers, Francis and Arthur, was carried on entirely at home, under the general direction of his mother.\n\nIn March 1849 Russell was appointed by Lord Malmesbury as attaché at Vienna. From 1850 to 1852 he was temporarily employed in the foreign office, whence he passed to Paris. He remained there, however, only about two months, when he was transferred to Vienna. In 1853 he became second paid attaché at Paris, and in August 1854 he was transferred as first paid attaché to Constantinople, where he served under Lord Stratford de Redcliffe. He had charge of the embassy during his chief's two visits to the Crimea in 1855, but left the East to work under Lord Napier at Washington in 1857. In the following year he became secretary of legation at Florence, but was detached from that place to reside in Rome, where he remained for twelve years, until August 1870. During all that period he was the real though unofficial representative of Britain at the Vatican.\n\nRussell's personal success with Otto von Bismarck led to his appointment as ambassador at Berlin in October 1871. He admired the new Germany and liked Germans: during his thirteen years in Berlin he never forfeited the confidence of Bismarck. Just as he had understood his Constantinople chief, Stratford de Redcliffe, and had never been broken by his suspicious rages, so too he achieved a sympathetic understanding of Bismarck. He withstood the Iron Chancellor's rages about real or imaginary plots, dispelled his darkest suspicions of British policy, and penetrated to the core of Bismarckian motives and strategy. For example, he reported to London in October 1872 how Bismarck's plans for a Kulturkampf were backfiring by strengthening the ultramontane (pro-papal) position inside German Catholicism:\n\nRussell was trusted by Victoria, the Crown Princess and the Hohenzollerns, but his cordiality to Bismarck's enemies was never tainted by the suspicion of intrigue. Nor was the objectivity of his dispatches compromised by his private belief that Kulturkampf must fail, or by his revulsion at Bismarck's persecution of Roman Catholicism. From the outset, he recognised Germany's colonial aspirations, though his appreciation of this complex situation was imperfect. In 1879 he was responsible for the novelty of attaching a commercial expert to the Berlin embassy staff.\n\nAfter his eldest brother became eventually 9th Duke of Bedford in 1872, Russell was granted the rank of a younger son of a duke, becoming known as \"Lord Odo Russell\". He was sworn of the Privy Council the same year. He was subsequently made a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath (GCB) in 1874, a Knight Grand Gross of the Order of St Michael and St George (GCMG) in 1879, and raised to the peerage as Baron Ampthill, of Ampthill in the County of Bedford, in 1881. He was British delegate at the Congress of Berlin in 1878, along with Disraeli and Salisbury.\n\nLord Ampthill married Lady Emily Villiers, daughter of George Villiers, 4th Earl of Clarendon, on 5 May 1868. They had six children:\n\n\nLord Ampthill died of peritonitis on 25 August 1884, aged 54, at his summer villa at Potsdam, and was interred on 3 September in the 'Bedford Chapel' at St. Michael’s Church, Chenies, Buckinghamshire, England. Bismarck thought him irreplaceable. Lady Ampthill died in February 1927, aged 83.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280010", "title": "Lake Chicot", "text": "Lake Chicot\n\nLake Chicot is a lake adjacent to the Mississippi River. The lake is located on the east side of Lake Village, Arkansas in Chicot County. It is not only the largest oxbow lake in North America, but the largest natural lake in Arkansas, formed 300 years ago by the meandering of the Mississippi River.\n\nThe name \"Chicot\", French for \"stumpy,\" refers to the many cypress stumps and trees along the lake banks. The lake is approximately wide and long from end to end, forming a traditional \"C\" shape (when viewed from overhead, with top being north and bottom being south and the open end of the \"C\" facing east).\n\nThe Arkansas Department of Parks and Tourism operates Lake Chicot State Park on the northern end of the lake, Chicot County also operates a county park on the eastern side of the lake across from Lake Village. Located at the State Park are a bait shop, fish cleaning station, and pier. The bait shop also has boat rentals. At the state park visitors' center, there are cabins for rent and camping spots. There is also a wildlife museum, featuring creatures found in and around Lake Chicot.\n\nFishing\n\nIn 1968 the Arkansas Game and Fish Commission, U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, and Chicot County Rural Development Authority began to restore Lake Chicot to its original state. When the dam at Cornerly Bayou was destroyed in a flood in 1927, silt and mud came pouring into the southern end of the lake. The pollution of the southern part of the lake eventually killed off the bass population. The upper part of the lake was protected by a dam, so it remained clean and protected. The groups decided to drain the water off the polluted section of the lake to compress sediment on the bottom, and plant vegetation that would provide a stable environment for fish species. The southern part of Lake Chicot was restocked, and has become a flourishing ecosystem. Fish species that can be caught in the lake include: Bluegills, channel catfish, largemouth bass, hybrid striper bass, crappie, redear sunfish, and bream.\n\nBoating\n\nChicot State Park provides a very good marina for people to launch their boats. The park, which is located on the northern part of the lake, also provides boat rentals. If you do not own a boat, you can rent a 15 foot bass boat with a 9.9 HP motor. Fishing and Camping gear can easily be found at the State Park's store. A couple other popular boat launches include: Jack R. Rhodes Lake Front Park in downtown Lake Village and the Chicot County Park.\n\nLake Chicot State Park\n\nThere are 122 campsites and 14 cabins located in Lake Chicot State Park. They meet the needs of large gatherings with indoor pavilions. This park is positioned right in the path of the Mississippi Flyway, so it naturally provides an amazing bird watching opportunity. A fun activity to do at the park is hiking. The Delta Woodlands Trail is 1 mile long and classified as easy. It is surrounded by bottomland hardwoods, and squirrels love to play in the pecan trees around the trail. Birds and colorful flowers thrive throughout the bountiful area.\n\nIn the 1820s the land around Lake Chicot(also known as \"Old River Lake\") began to be filled with American settlers. Cotton farms worked by slaves were very common in the land surrounding the lake. A cotton plantation, on the shores on Lake Chicot, was named Sunnyside Plantation. It was created in the 1830s, and became the home of an Italian immigrant colony. In the mid 1800's Chicot County's population was 9,234, and of that number 7,512 were slaves.\n\nThe biggest Civil War battle in Chicot County was fought in June 6, 1864 on the shores of Lake Chicot. In the Battle at Ditch Bayou, Union and Confederate soldiers engaged in battle on the southern shore of the lake. The Union eventually won the battle. By moving the Confederates out of the Mississippi River, travel became much safer and easier. This was considered one of Arkansas' final Civil War battles.\n"}
{"id": "2280015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280015", "title": "True Love (Cole Porter song)", "text": "True Love (Cole Porter song)\n\n\"True Love\" is a popular song written by Cole Porter and was published in 1956. The song was introduced by Bing Crosby and Grace Kelly in the musical film \"High Society.\" \"True Love\" was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song. Kelly's contribution on the record is relatively minor, duetting with Crosby on only the final chorus. Nonetheless, the single is co-credited to her.\n\nThe Crosby-Kelly version, accompanied by Johnny Green's MGM studio orchestra using a romantic arrangement by Conrad Salinger, was a hit single, peaking at number four in the United Kingdom, number three in Australia and number one in the Netherlands. Many musical artists have covered the song since its release, including Richard Chamberlain, Nancy Sinatra, George Harrison, Shakin' Stevens, and Elton John and Kiki Dee.\n\nRichard Chamberlain released a cover of the song as a single in 1963; it peaked at number 30 in the United Kingdom. A version by Shakin' Stevens from his 1988 album \"A Whole Lotta Shaky\" reached number 23 in the UK. In 1993, Elton John and Kiki Dee recorded the song as an adult contemporary duet for John's album \"Duets\"; the single reached number two on the UK Singles Chart and Irish Singles Chart, number four in Belgium, number seven in Iceland, number 12 in Canada and number 56 in the United States.\n\nA version of the song by Jane Powell out at the same time as the Crosby–Kelly version was also popular. Elvis Presley cut a version of \"True Love\" that was featured on his successful album \"Loving You\" from 1957. Ricky Nelson included a version of the song on his 1957 debut album \"Ricky\". In 1961 Patsy Cline covered the song on her second studio album, \"Patsy Cline Showcase.\" Shelley Fabares cut a version of the song on her album \"Shelley!\" released in 1962. Al Hirt released a version on his 1962 album, \"Trumpet and Strings\". The Everly Brothers recorded a version for their 1962 album \"Instant Party\" without any commercial success. A version by Nancy Sinatra was released as a single in 1965.\n\nOther versions to achieve success include Jack Jones, 1965, as the closing tune for \"There's Love and There's Love and There's Love\", an album of romance classics arranged by Nelson Riddle; The song has also featured on a number of albums cut by Connie Francis. A version of \"True Love\" is on the 1974 album \"I'm Leaving It All Up to You\" by Donny and Marie Osmond. A version by George Harrison done in a blues rock style, from his 1976 album \"Thirty Three & 1/3\", was released as the album's third single in 1977.\n\nThe short-lived 1980s band Oasis recorded a version on their one album, \"Oasis\", in 1984. Anne Murray recorded a cover of the song for her album \"Croonin'\" (1993). Neil Diamond covered the song for his 1998 album \"\". Deana Martin recorded “True Love” on her 2013 album \"Destination Moon\" as a duet with her father, Dean Martin, who originally recorded the song for his 1960 album \"This Time I'm Swingin'!\".\n\nBing Crosby and Grace Kelly version\nRichard Chamberlain version\nShakin' Stevens version\nElton John and Kiki Dee version\n\nBing Crosby and Grace Kelly version\nElton John and Kiki Dee version\n\n\"True Love\" is the name of a yacht on which two of the characters honeymoon in the play \"The Philadelphia Story\", on which the musical is based. Bing Crosby later owned a 55-foot \"Constellation\" yacht which he named the \"True Love\".\n"}
{"id": "2280017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280017", "title": "Bentivoglio family", "text": "Bentivoglio family\n\nBentivoglio (Latin: \"Bentivoius\") was an Italian family that became the \"de facto\" rulers of Bologna and responsible for giving the city its political autonomy during the Renaissance, although their rule did not survive a century.\n\nThe presence in Bologna of the Bentivoglio family is first recorded in 1323. Originally from the castle of that name in the neighborhood of Bologna, the family claimed descent from Enzio, King of Sardinia, an illegitimate son of Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor.\n\nDuring the fourteenth century, the family, belonging to one of the worker's guilds at Bologna, had gained power as pro-papist Guelph leaders in the fourteenth century. Amid the faction-conflicts of the commune, on 14 March 1401, Giovanni I Bentivoglio, with the help of Gian Galeazzo Visconti, declared himself \" signore\" and \"Gonfaloniere di Giustizia\". The Visconti however soured on Giovanni, and he was defeated and killed on 26 June 1402 at the Battle of Casalecchio and was interred in the church of San Giacomo Maggiore.\n\nDuring the next few decades, the city's political status -and the family's fortunes- remained unpredictable. The son of Giovanni I, Anton Galeazzo (or Antongaleazzo, c. 1385-1435), was a lecturer in civil law who briefly assumed power in Bologna in 1420, but was quickly overthrown. He became a condottiero, and was assassinated by papal officials on 23 December 1435 due to fears over his growing power (he had returned to Bologna in December). During his reign the Bentivoglio received the fief of Castel Bolognese.\n\nIn 1438 Annibale I, a putative son of Anton Galeazzo (his mother, Lina Canigiani, was said to be uncertain of the boy's paternity and the matter was decided by dice), led a city revolt against the Papacy. He tried to make peace with the Visconti of Milan and to convince the Pope not to place Bologna under papal dominion. In 1442, the Visconti condottiere Niccolò Piccinino imprisoned Annibale and his supporters at Varano, but Annibale was freed by Galeazzo Marescotti in 1442. When Annibale returned to Bologna, the powers of government were conferred to him, a sign that the city recognized the family's political importance. However, on 24 June 1445, with the support of Pope Eugene IV, Battista Canneschi, succeeded in assassinating his rival Annibale.\n\nAnnibale was succeeded by Sante I (1426-1463). Sante was also of dubious paternity and origin, but alleged to be a son of Ercole Bentivoglio, a cousin of Annibale I. Originally an apprentice of the wool guild of Florence, Sante ruled as \"signore\" of Bologna from 1442. Sponsored by Cosimo de' Medici, Sante Bentivoglio ushered in a brief period of political tranquility. Always technically under papal sovereignty, the city obtained some actual autonomy and recreated a regime of the feudal type, with a communal senate composed of the landowning nobility, the new rich, and the papal nobility. Bologna also strengthened its relations with Venice, Milan, and Florence.\n\nSante was succeeded by Giovanni II (1443-1508), the son of Annibale I, who ruled as virtual tyrant of Bologna. In 1506, the noble Bentivoglio family was brought to ruin by Pope Julius II when he expelled Giovanni II from Bologna.\n\nA son of Giovanni II, Annibale II (1469-1540), married Lucrezia d'Este, an illegitimate daughter of Duke Ercole I of Ferrara, in 1487. He served as a condottiero. During a rebellion in 1511 against Julius II, Annibale II with the help of the French took control o Bologna, but he was able to rule for only a year. He was hated by other rival families, such as the Ghislieri and the Canetoli, and was subsequently assassinated. Annibale II was the last ruler of his line. In exile, the Bentivoglio family established themselves in Ferrara and produced several notable prelates.\n\nErcole Bentivoglio, the putative father of Sante I who lived in exile in Florence and Ferrara, wrote a long poem on dietetic, greatly extolling the medical properties of cheese. He also wrote satirical works.\n\nThe Bentivoglio Family, expelled from Bologna in 1506, established themselves in Ferrara, where they produced some important prelates, such as:\n\n\nThe third son of Giovanni II, Alessandro Bentivoglio, who had married Ippolita Sforza, became a counselor of the last duke of Milan and later governor of the town (1525), giving origin to a lombard branch of the family.\n\nA notable recent member of the family is Galeazzo Benti, originally Galeazzo Bentivoglio, 20th century actor.\n\nThe Church of San Giacomo Maggiore, originally built in the mid-13th century, was adopted in the 15th century by the Bentivoglio family as the center of their power base in the surrounding neighborhood, and they embellished the church accordingly. It included the tomb of Anton Galeazzo Bentivoglio by Jacopo della Quercia and the Bentivoglio family's own private chapel, the altar of which has some striking artwork by Lorenzo Costa depicting family victories over other Bolognese dynasties.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280021", "title": "Born Under a Bad Sign", "text": "Born Under a Bad Sign\n\nBorn Under a Bad Sign is the second compilation album by American blues musician Albert King, released in 1967 by Stax Records. It features eleven electric blues songs that were recorded from March 1966 to June 1967, throughout five different sessions. King played with two in-house bands: Booker T. & the M.G.'s and the Memphis Horns.\n\nAlthough the album failed to reach any music chart, it did receive positive reviews and is now regarded by critics as one of the greatest blues albums ever made. The guitar play on \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" influenced many guitarists, including Eric Clapton, Mike Bloomfield, Jimi Hendrix, and Stevie Ray Vaughan. \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" was inducted into both the Blues Foundation Hall of Fame and the Grammy Hall of Fame. In 2012, it was ranked at number 491 on \"Rolling Stone\" list of the 500 greatest albums of all time.\n\nIn 1966, King signed with the Memphis-based label Stax Records. The forty-three-year-old musician had already recorded music for other labels, but outside of his 1961 song \"Don't Throw Your Love on Me So Strong\", he had yet to find any commercial success. Throughout five sessions from March 1966 to June 1967, King recorded several songs at Stax Studios with two in-house bands: Booker T. & the M.G.'s and the Memphis Horns. Although Jim Stewart is credited as the producer, trumpeter Wayne Jackson said Steve Cropper and Al Jackson Jr. ran the recording sessions. Many of the songs recorded during these sessions were released as singles, and in August 1967, the singles were compiled and released as King's debut album with Stax, titled \"Born Under a Bad Sign\".\n\"Born Under a Bad Sign\" is an electric blues album, with influences of soul and funk. The album's music comprises simple chord progressions, which Jackson noted was due to inexperience. \"We didn't know how to play it any better!\" said Jackson. King played primarily on the three highest guitar strings and only used a select few phrases throughout the album. In the liner notes for the 2002 reissue of \"Born Under a Bad Sign\", critic Michael Point wrote how King was able to distinguish his guitar play despite only using a few phrases: \"His simple but subtle reconfigurations were accomplished through inflections, emphasis, and timing, not via sprinting through scales.\"\n\nThe sharp guitar sound heard throughout the album can be partially attributed to King's unorthodox style of play. King was left-handed, but chose to play a right-handed Gibson Flying V and not restring it. King pulled strings from above instead of pushing from below, the standard string bending technique. As a result, he was able to bend several strings simultaneously, which allowed for multi-timbral phrasing. When asked about King's style of play, Jackson said: \"Albert's guitar was always out of tune with everything else, but he was such a strong man he would just bend the notes back in!\"\n\nSide one of \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" features six short songs, which are all under three minutes long. Side two features longer, more ballad-like songs. \"Personal Manager\" in particular contains one of the few guitar solos on the album. Arguably the most famous song from \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" is the album's title track, which was written by William Bell and Booker T. Jones. Bell wanted to write a song about astrology and came up with an unconventional ten-bar guitar line (as opposed to eight-bar and twelve-bar blues) during a jam session. Music historian Rob Bowman called \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" \"one of the most smokingly intense blues recordings of the modern era\".\n\n\"Born Under a Bad Sign\" was released in August 1967 by Stax Records. It failed to reach any music chart, although three songs from the album—\"Laundromat Blues\" (1966), \"Born Under a Bad Sign\", and \"Crosscut Saw\" (both 1967)—did reach the Hot Rhythm & Blues Singles chart. Rob Bowman believes this was because the rhythm and blues market emphasized 45-inch singles as opposed to albums. A critic from \"Billboard\" magazine awarded the album a \"Special Merit Pick\" label, and wrote: \"Albert King has a way with the blues, a realistic, soulful style which hits the mark as all 11 cuts in his latest Stax album demonstrate.\"\n\n\"Born Under a Bad Sign\" was reissued in 2013 by Stax and Concord Records. The reissue features remastered versions of every song from the original release, as well as four alternative versions, one untitled instrumental piece, and additional liner notes. Neil Kelly of \"PopMatters\" felt the additional song were enough to warrant a repurchase, and highlighted the instrumental piece. Kelly said: \"Booker T and the MG's never sounded better, even on a one-off jam that was never supposed to be issued.\"\n\nDecades after its release, \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" status continues to grow, and it is now considered one of the greatest blues albums ever made. \"The Rolling Stone Jazz & Blues Album Guide\" gave \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" a perfect score, where author David McGee described it as \"a blues monument\". Leland Rucker echoed McGee's remark in the \"MusicHound Blues: The Essential Album Guide\" book, writing \"King's Stax debut \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" is an undisputed classic.\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic highlighted the musicianship between King and the M.G.'s, and wrote: \"it's astounding how strong this catalog of songs is\".\n\nErlwine noted how influential the guitar play on the album was. \"[King] unleashed a torrent of blistering guitar runs that were profoundly influential, not just in blues, but in rock & roll\". Journalist Sean McDevitt agreed with this statement, and wrote \"\"Born Under a Bad Sign\" directly influenced legions of guitar players who studied its every subtlety and nuance\". Among these guitarists are Eric Clapton, Mike Bloomfield, Jimi Hendrix, and Stevie Ray Vaughan, most of whom covered songs from \"Born Under a Bad Sign\". Clapton's band Cream sampled the guitar solo from \"Oh, Pretty Woman\" for the song \"Strange Brew\", and covered \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" for their 1968 album \"Wheels of Fire\". The Paul Butterfield Blues Band also covered \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" for the 1967 album \"The Resurrection of Pigboy Crabshaw\".\n\n\"Born Under a Bad Sign\" has been recognized by several music institutions as an influential album. It has been inducted into the Blues Foundation Hall of Fame and the Grammy Hall of Fame, in 1985 and 1999 respectively. The 2002 reissue received a Blues Music Award for \"Historical Blues Album of the Year\". In 2012, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" at number 491 on its list of the 500 greatest albums of all time. The list states: \"King's first album for the Stax label combines his hard, unflashy guitar playing with the sleek sound of the label's house band, Booker T. and the MG's.\"\n\nMichael Point believes \"Born Under a Bad Sign\" was critical to the modernization of blues music, and catapulted King into mainstream popularity. King went from playing on the Chitlin' Circuit as a relatively unknown musician, to large rock arenas such as the Fillmore and Fillmore East. These performances attracted both black and white audience members, including a large following of hippie fans.\n\nTrack listing taken from the 1967 vinyl release of \"Born Under a Bad Sign\".\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Born Under a Bad Sign\".\n"}
{"id": "2280023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280023", "title": "Peter Brabeck-Letmathe", "text": "Peter Brabeck-Letmathe\n\nPeter Brabeck-Letmathe (born 13 November 1944) is an Austrian businessman. He is the chairman emeritus, former chairman and CEO of the Nestlé Group, and former chairman of Formula One.\n\nBrabeck-Letmathe was born in Villach, Austria, into a family with its origins in Iserlohn-Letmathe in north-western Germany. He studied economics at the University of World Trade (today Vienna University of Economics and Business).\n\nHe joined Nestlé in 1968 in Austria as a salesman, later becoming a specialist for new products. His career within the group included a span of almost 10 years in Chile (1970–1980), first as national sales manager and later as director of marketing. In 1981, he was appointed managing director of Nestlé Ecuador and in 1983, president and managing director of Nestlé Venezuela. In October 1987, he was transferred to Nestlé's international headquarters in Vevey. As senior vice-president in charge of the Culinary Products Division, he had worldwide responsibility for that business area. On 1 January 1992, Brabeck-Letmathe was appointed executive vice-president of Nestlé S.A., with global responsibility for the Strategic Business Group encompassing food, Buitoni pasta, chocolate and confectionery, ice cream, pet food, as well as industrial products (aromas). At the same time, he had worldwide responsibility for marketing, communications and public affairs. In particular, during his time as executive vice-president, he conceived and implemented the unique branding policy of Nestlé, characterized by a strict hierarchy of strategic brands on the global, regional and local level.\n\nOn 5 June 1997, he was elected to the board of directors, and appointed chief executive officer of Nestlé S.A. On 6 April 2001, the board of directors elected him as vice-chairman, and in April 2005, chairman of the board. \n\nIn 2008, Brabeck-Letmathe stepped down as CEO.\n\nBrabeck-Letmathe (credited as Peter Brabeck) appeared in the 2005 documentary \"We Feed the World\" and while speaking on the subject of water, he said \"It's a question of whether we should privatize the normal water supply for the population. And there are two different opinions on the matter. The one opinion, which I think is extreme, is represented by the NGOs, who bang on about declaring water a public right. That means that as a human being you should have a right to water. That's an extreme solution. The other view says that water is a foodstuff like any other, and like any other foodstuff it should have a market value.\" He added, \"Personally, I believe it's better to give a foodstuff a value so that we're all aware it has its price, and then that one should take specific measures for the part of the population that has no access to this water.\" Following controversy on social media about these remarks, he stated that he does believe that water for basic hygiene and drinking is indeed a human right. He went on to say that his remarks were intended to address overconsumption by some while others suffered from lack of water and further that his remarks were taken out of context by the documentary.\n\nBrabeck-Letmathe was on the board of directors of Credit Suisse Group, L'Oréal, and ExxonMobil. He is also a member of ERT (European Round Table of Industrialists) and a member of the foundation board of the World Economic Forum. His earnings in 2006 were approximately 14 million Swiss francs (9 million Euro).\n\n"}
{"id": "2280029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280029", "title": "Frisian flag", "text": "Frisian flag\n\n'Frisian flag' can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280034", "title": "Boltz Lake", "text": "Boltz Lake\n\nBoltz Lake, located in Grant County, Kentucky, is a reservoir.\n"}
{"id": "2280043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280043", "title": "Dundonald, County Down", "text": "Dundonald, County Down\n\nDundonald () is a large settlement and civil parish in County Down, Northern Ireland. It lies east of Belfast and is often considered a suburb of the city. It is home to the Ulster Hospital, Dundonald International Ice Bowl, Dundonald Omnipark (Cinema and various eateries), has a Park and Ride facility for the Glider (Belfast Rapid Transit system), access to the Comber Greenway and several housing developments. \nJohn de Courcey established a keep including a motte-and-bailey in the 12th century. This is known as Moat Park and can be accessed from Church Green, Comber Road and the Upper Newtownards Road.\n\nDundonald refers to a 12th-century Norman fort, or Dún, Dún Dónaill, that stood in the town. One of the largest in Ireland, the man-made hill that the fort stood on is still in existence.\n\nAlthough the mound is commonly referred to as 'the moat' this is, in fact, a corruption of the word 'motte' and refers to the fact that this defensive structure was built in the style of a motte and bailey. St. Elizabeth's Church is located beside the moat, with the Cleland Mausoleum in the adjacent graveyard.\n\nDundonald acquired rail links to Belfast and Newtownards in 1850, Downpatrick in 1859 and Newcastle in 1869. The town was located on the once extensive Belfast and County Down Railway mainline. The rail link with Belfast encouraged Dundonald to expand as a commuter town, but in 1950 the railway line running through Dundonald was closed. Dundonald railway station was opened on 6 May 1850, but finally closed on 24 April 1950.\nIn the 1960s, Dundonald was deemed a small village. Over the last 10 years Dundonald has seen a spike in housing developments, given its proximity to Belfast, Bangor, Stormont and Ballyhackamore.\n\nFor census purposes, Dundonald is not treated as a separate entity by the NI Statistics and Research Agency (NISRA). Instead, it is combined with a large part of east and southeast Belfast to form the \"Castlereagh Urban Area\". A fairly accurate population count can be found by combining the data of the electoral wards that make up Dundonald. These wards are Ballyhanwood 1, Carrowreagh, Dundonald, Enler, and Grahams Bridge. However, the wards also include part of the countryside surrounding Dundonald.\n\nOn the day of the last census (27 March 2011), the combined population of these wards was 16,098\n. This is within the bounds of the medium-sized town (a population between 10,000 and 18,000).\n\nOf this population:\n\nDundonald is represented in council governance by the Castlereagh East DEA. The members elected in 2019 were:\n\nDundonald sprang up within the small parish of the same name. Like the rest of Ireland, this parish has long been divided into townlands, whose names mostly come from the Irish language. Over time, more rural townlands have been built upon and they have given their names to many roads and housing estates. The following is a list of townlands within Dundonald's urban area, alongside their likely etymologies:\n\nThe Comber Greenway is a direct traffic free link into Belfast and it passes through Dundonald. It is enjoyed by thousands of cyclists and walkers on a daily basis.\n\nIn 1986, The Dundonald International Ice Bowl was opened in the town. This originally comprised an Olympic sized ice rink and a 20 lane AMF ten pin bowling alley. In later years, \"Indianaland\", a children's Aztec themed indoor adventure playground was added along with Laser Quest, a simulated combat arena using laser tag equipment. The bowling alley was upgraded to 30 lanes in the 1990s and an extensive miniature golf course was built. The site also contains a David Lloyd fitness centre. In 2006, the area was designated as the Dundonald Leisure Park, as part of the Draft Belfast Metropolitan Area Plan 2015. In 2008, an Omniplex cinema was built on the opposite side of the Old Dundonald Road, together with several leisure and restaurant units, which later on now became what is now known as the OmniPark.\n\nThe Ulster Hospital is located in Dundonald, known colloquially as \"The Ulster\".\n\nA number of local association football teams play out of Dundonald, Dundonald F.C. playing in 1A and 3C of the Northern Amateur Football League and \"Moat Park Rangers\" and \"43RD Old Boys\" playing in the Down Area Winter Football League are the three clubs that are well known in the town. Dundonald Football Club is one of the oldest running amateur league clubs in Northern Ireland, established in 1953.\n\nDundonald has seen two football teams fold, Donard Hospital F.C. and St. Elizabeth's F.C.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1936, the RAC Tourist Trophy (TT) motorcar races took place on a (closed) road circuit encompassing Newtownards, Comber and Dundonald in County Down, run in a clockwise direction. The pits were still visible up until the 1960s. A popular viewing point was the hairpin bend at the Central Bar in Dundonald. Industrialist and pioneer of the modern agricultural tractor, Harry Ferguson, was instrumental in setting up the race, which was known as the Ards TT.\n\nAt the time, it was Northern Ireland's premier sporting event, regularly attracting crowds in excess of a quarter of a million people. Although it was a speed event, the entries were handicapped to allow cars of very different sizes and capabilities to race against each other on supposedly even terms over 30 laps (35 laps from 1933) of the 13.7-mile circuit. On 5 September 1936, in wet conditions, local driver Jack Chambers lost control of his Riley and crashed into the crowd, killing eight spectators. This tragedy brought an end to nine years of racing over the Ards road circuit.\n\nThe town's ice rink, the Dundonald Ice Bowl is home to the Irish Ice Hockey League's Junior Belfast Giants.\n\nDundonald accommodates two primary schools, Dundonald Primary School and Brooklands Primary School.\n\nDundonald serves a secondary education school, Dundonald High School. Dundonald also has two schools for those with special needs and learning difficulties, Tor Bank and Longstone Special School.\n\n\nThe civil parish contains the settlement of Dundonald.\n\nThe civil parish contains the following townlands:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280057", "title": "Römer", "text": "Römer\n\nThe Römer (German surname, \"Roman\") is a medieval building in the Altstadt of Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and one of the city's most important landmarks. The Römer is located opposite the Old St. Nicholas church and has been the city hall (\"Rathaus\") of Frankfurt for over 600 years. The Römer merchant family sold it together with a second building, the \"Goldener Schwan\" (Golden Swan), to the city council on March 11, 1405 and it was converted for use as the city hall. The \"Haus Römer\" is actually the middle building of a set of three located in the \"Römerberg\" plaza. \n\nThe \"Römer\" is not a museum as it is occasionally used by the city for various purposes, for example as a \"Standesamt\" or civil registration office; the wedding rooms are located in the first and second floor of the \"Haus Löwenstein\".\n\nThe former old town quarter between the Römer and St. Bartholomew's Cathedral will be redeveloped as the Dom-Römer Quarter until 2016, including several reconstructions of historical buildings that were destroyed during World War II.\n\nThe building complex has been continuously extended over the years, with eventually eleven houses connected to each other, resulting in a rather confusing interior. At the beginning of the 19th century, Frankfurt historian Anton Kirschner remarked that the Frankfurt city hall had \"stairs, yards, halls and rooms in a labyrinthian mixture\".\n\nIn 1435, the city bought the \"Frauenrode\" house, in 1510 the \"Viole\" house and in 1542 the \"Schwarzenfels\" house, which were all architecturally connected to the main complex.\n\nThen, in 1596 the city council bought the \"Wanebach\" house, which stood next to the \"Goldener Schwan\", as well as the building to the left of the \"Haus Römer\", the \"Haus Löwenstein\", and had both of them connected to the \"Römer\". These construction projects were very complicated, since the floor heights of \"Löwenstein\" and \"Römer\" were radically different.\n\nIn 1843, the \"Frauenstein\" house and the \"Salzhaus\" were added. Finally, in 1878 the city bought the \"Alt-Limpurg\" house to the right of the \"Haus Römer\" for 214,000 marks. The current neogothic front with a balcony was built from 189 more imposing, but mayor Franz Adickes decided against Kaiser Wilhelm's suggestion and had the front designed in a more welcoming manner.\n\nAt the same time, the houses \"Frauenrode\" and \"Viole\" were demolished to make way for streets through the city centre. They were replaced by a newly erected building to the east. This new building is divided into two wings by the \"Braubachstrasse\". These two wings (the north wing and south wing) are connected by a bridge. The Frankfurt citizens, who paid their taxes in the north wing, named the covered bridge the \"Seufzerbrücke\" (the \"Bridge of Sighs\") in reference to the other Bridge of Sighs in Venice. The two towers in the south wing attracted nicknames as well: the larger one was called \"Langer Franz\" (Tall Franz) in homage to the city's tall mayor and the smaller one the \"Kleiner Cohen\" (Small Cohen) after a popular song of the time.\n\nOn the night of March 22, 1944, the \"Römer\", along with the rest of the centre of Frankfurt, was largely destroyed in one of the heaviest Allied bombing attacks of the Second World War. When the building was rebuilt after the war, the \"Alt-Limpurg\", the \"Römer\", and the \"Löwenstein\" houses, whose roof structure had in part withstood the attack, were restored in a simplified form. The completely destroyed houses \"Frauenstein\" and \"Salzhaus\" were rebuilt in a simplified style. The \"Löwenstein\" house has an open stairwell. The \"Römer\" was re-inaugurated in 1955 by president Theodor Heuss.\n\nIn the following decades the façade was restored two additional times, in the years 1974 and 2005, and the houses on the \"Römerberg\" regained the neogothic look of 1900. The interior has also been redesigned. In 1988 the renovated city council meeting hall was completed.\n\nThe entire three-storey building complex occupies about 10,000 square metres and consists of nine houses, encircling six courtyards. The front, with today's main entrance, faces the \"Römerberg\" plaza. Other streets around the \"Römer\" are the \"Limpurgergasse\" to the south and the \"Buchgasse\" and the \"Berliner Straße\" to the north. The \"Braubachstraße\" divides the south and north wings.\n\nThe exterior features of the set of buildings reflect a wide breadth of Frankfurt and Germany's history, even though they were designed at the beginning of the 20th century. The famous three-peaked façade has medieval elements of design. The left-hand corner of the \"Alt-Limpurg\" displays the so-called \"Frankfurtia\", the female embodiment of the city. In the middle, the \"Haus Römer\" shows the four kaisers of the Holy Roman Empire, two city coats of arms, a clock face, and a placard describing the most important facts about the building. The four kaisers are Frederick Barbarossa (the first king to be elected in Frankfurt), Louis the Bavarian (who gave convention rights to the city and allowed an expansion of the city), Charles IV (who made Frankfurt the location of the Kaiser selection vote), and Maximilian II (the first kaiser to be crowned in Frankfurt cathedral).\n\nLike the neogothic façade, the balcony was added after the rebuilding in 1900, replacing a wooden roof. The balcony was and is used as a public stage for state visits and sporting events - for example, the soccer world champions in the Women's World Cup in 2003 and the runners up in the 2002 FIFA World Cup.\n\nAnother approach was chosen for the design of the fronts of the two north-east houses (the \"Wanebach\" and the \"Salzhaus\"). In contrast to the other houses in the complex, instead of reconstructing the old Wilhelminean front, the architects created a completely new design using a combination of medieval timber framing and modern styles. The mosaics in the timber frames feature the motif of a phoenix, a symbol for modern Frankfurt's new start after the war.\n\nThese two halls are the oldest remaining rooms in the building and are virtually unchanged after 600 years. At one point, the first Frankfurt book fairs took place in these rooms and gold and silversmiths sold their merchandise there. After the Second World War, the rooms continued to be used for this purpose because the massively built structures had survived the war practically undamaged. The two halls are located on the ground floor of the houses \"Römer\" and \"Goldener Schwan\", and they can be entered directly from the main entrance on the \"Römerberg\".\n\nPerhaps the best-known room of the \"Römer\", the \"Kaisersaal\", or \"Emperor Hall\", is located above the \"Römerhalle\" on the second floor and is a major tourist attraction. During the Holy Roman Empire, coronation banquets took place there. Today, the \"Kaisersaal\" is well known for its unique and unparalleled collection of 19th century portraits of all of the emperors, including works by Eduard Von Steinle of Albert I and Ferdinand III.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280066", "title": "Gottfried Arnold", "text": "Gottfried Arnold\n\nGottfried Arnold (5 September 1666 in Annaberg, Erzgebirge – 30 May 1714 in Perleberg) was a German Lutheran theologian and historian.\n\nArnold was born at Annaberg, in Saxony (Germany), where his father was schoolmaster. In 1682 he went to the Gymnasium at Gera, and three years later to the University of Wittenberg. Here made a special study of theology and history, and afterwards, through the influence of Philip Jacob Spener, the father of pietism, became tutor in Quedlinburg.\n\nHis first work, \"Die Erste Liebe zu Christo\", appeared in 1696. It went through five editions before 1728, and gained the author a high reputation. In the year after its publication he was invited to Gießen as professor of church history. He disliked academic politics and academic life so much that he resigned in 1698, and returned to Wittenberg.\n\nThe next year he began to publish his largest work, his \"Unparteyische Kirchen- und Ketzer-historie\" (“Impartial History of the Church and of Heresy,” Frankfurt, 1699–1700), two hefty volumes in which some thought he showed more sympathy towards heresy than towards any established Church, or especially the clergy (cf. Otto Pfleiderer, \"Development of Theology\", p. 277). This book is described by Tolstoy (\"The Kingdom of God Is Within You\", chap, iii.) as “remarkable, although little known.”\n\nIn this major revision of church history, Arnold directed his sharpest criticism against those who wrote deeply biased apologetic “orthodox” histories instead of trying to understand where substantial religious differences actually came from. In his view, “heresy making” was usually the defensive reaction of those in authority, rather than a true indictment of unconventional thinkers. He thought that the worst calamity in Church history was its establishment as the accepted and orthodox faith by the Roman Emperor Constantine in the fourth century. Arnold evinced a remarkable sympathy for a huge variety of “heretics.” This “impartial history” exercised a wide influence on the German Enlightenment and won approval from such thinkers as Johann Wolfgang Goethe in addition to Leo Tolstoy.\n\nHis next work, \"Geheimniss der göttlichen Sophia\", showed that he had developed a form of mysticism including a female image of wisdom (sophia) as a kind of divinity. Soon afterwards, however, his marriage and his acceptance of a pastorate marked a sharp change of views, and he produced a number of noteworthy works on practical theology. He was a thoroughly learned and prominent Pietist Lutheran, with a wide range of influence, and at least in his early career a radical Pietist, vehemently opposed to the unbending ecclesiastical structures of his time.\n\nHis sacred poems also made a substantial contribution to the treasury of hymns within the Lutheran church, and a poem of his was used by Johann Sebastian Bach (“Vergiss mein nicht,” BWV 505).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280072", "title": "Chilcotin language", "text": "Chilcotin language\n\nChilcotin (also Tsilhqotʹin, Tsilhqot’in, Tsilhqut’in, Tzilkotin) is a Northern Athabaskan language spoken in British Columbia by the Tsilhqot’in people.\n\nThe name \"Chilcotin\" is derived from the Chilcotin name for themselves: , literally \"people of the red ochre river\".\n\nChilcotin has 47 consonants:\n\n\nChilcotin has 6 vowels:\n\n\nEvery given Chilcotin vowel has a number of different phonetic realizations from complex phonological processes (such as nasalization, laxing, flattening). For instance, the vowel can be variously pronounced .\n\nChilcotin is a tonal language with two tones: high tone and low tone.\n\nChilcotin has vowel flattening and consonant harmony. Consonant harmony (sibilant harmony) is rather common in the Athabaskan language family. Vowel flattening is unique to Chilcotin but is similar to phonological processes in other unrelated Interior Salishan languages spoken in the same area, such as Shuswap, St'át'imcets, and Thompson River Salish (and thus was probably borrowed into Chilcotin). That type of harmony is an areal feature common in this region of North America. The Chilcotin processes, however, are much more complicated.\n\nVowel nasalization is a phonological process by which the phoneme is nasalizes the preceding vowel. It occurs when the vowel + sequence is followed by a (tautosyllabic) continuant consonant (such as ).\n\nVowel laxing is a process by which tense vowels () become lax when followed by a syllable-final : the tense and lax distinction is neutralized.\n\nChilcotin has a type of retracted tongue root harmony. Generally, \"flat\" consonants lower vowels in both directions. Assimilation is both progressive and regressive.\n\nChilcotin consonants can be grouped into three categories: neutral, sharp, and flat.\n\n\nThe flat consonants can be further divided into two types:\n\n\nThe '-series is stronger than the '-series by affecting vowels farther away.\n\nThis table shows both unaffected vowels and flattened vowels:\n\nThe vowel surfaces as if after a flat consonant and as before a flat consonant:\n\nThe progressive and regressive flattening processes are described below.\n\nIn the \"progressive\" (left-to-right) flattening, the -series consonants affect only the immediately following vowel:\n\nLike the '-series, the stronger '-series consonants affects the immediately following vowel. However, it affects the vowel in the following syllable as well if the first flattened vowel is a lax vowel. If the first flattened is tense, the vowel of the following syllable is not flattened.\n\nThus, the neutral consonants aretransparen in the flattening process. In the first word 'he's comatose', flattens the of the first syllable to and the of the second syllable to . In the word 'I'm sleeping', flattens to . Since, however, the vowel of the first syllable is , which is a tense vowel, the cannot flatten the of the second syllable.\n\nThe sharp consonants, however, block the progressive flattening caused by the -series:\n\nIn regressive (right-to-left) harmony, the -series flattens the preceding vowel.\n\nThe regressive (right-to-left) harmony of the -series, however, is much stronger than the progressive harmony. The consonants flatten all preceding vowels in a word:\n\nBoth progressive and regressive flattening processes occur in Chilcotin words:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280073", "title": "Republican Progressive Party", "text": "Republican Progressive Party\n\nRepublican Progressive Party (, PPR) was a political party in the Central African Republic. The PPR was led by Henri Maïdou, a former Prime Minister in Jean-Bédel Bokassa's cabinet. Maïdou was the PPR candidate in the 1981 presidential elections and finished fourth of five candidates with 3% of the vote.\n"}
{"id": "2280078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280078", "title": "Leroy &amp; Stitch", "text": "Leroy &amp; Stitch\n\nLeroy & Stitch is a 2006 American animated science-fiction comedy television film produced by Walt Disney Television Animation. It is the third and final sequel film of the 2002 animated feature film \"Lilo & Stitch\", and the television series finale to \"\". It also concluded the main continuity of the \"Lilo & Stitch\" franchise where Lilo Pelekai is a main character and Hawaii is the main setting. The film debuted on Disney Channel on June 23, 2006 and was also aired on Toon Disney on June 26, 2006.\n\nWhile the film received mixed reviews, it was nominated for the 2007 Golden Reel Award by the Motion Picture Sound Editors, which ultimately went to Disneytoon's direct-to-video film \"The Fox and the Hound 2\".\n\nWith their mission to capture all 624 experiments and repurpose them on Earth completed, Lilo, Stitch, Jumba and Pleakley are honored as heroes by the Galactic Alliance. Jumba is given the confiscated key to his laboratory again, Pleakley is offered a post as chairman of Earth Studies at G.A.C.C. (Galactic Alliance Community College), and Stitch is made the Captain of the Galactic Armada and commander of his newly commissioned ship BRB-9000 (Big Red Battleship 9000). Lilo is made Galactic Federation Ambassador to Earth and sole guardian of Stitch's \"cousins\". Before they leave, Lilo gives Jumba her favorite Elvis record, Pleakley a paperweight (which is actually an Earth rock) and Stitch a necklace with a Kū tiki (the Hawaiian god of strength).\n\nIn his ship, Gantu has decided that since he failed to capture all of the experiments (except for 625), he will have to break Dr. Hämsterviel out of prison. He takes the two-man space shuttle, leaving 625 alone and helps Hämsterviel escape from prison. Stitch is then assigned to recapture Hämsterviel. Hämsterviel and Gantu burst into Jumba's lab and force Jumba to create an evil twin of Stitch, Leroy, to defeat the Galactic Alliance. Stitch arrives and after a fight, he is defeated when Pleakley appears at an inopportune moment, distracting Stitch long enough for Leroy to lock him in a glass capsule. Hämsterviel reveals his plans to clone an army of Leroys to take over the Galactic Alliance. Before leaving for Turo, Hämsterviel locks Jumba, Pleakley and Stitch in Pleakley's ship, and sends the vessel into a black hole.\n\nOn Earth, Lilo decides to contact Stitch. Lilo realizes that the only intergalactic videophone on the planet available is in Gantu's ship. There, she finds 625 and asks to use the videophone. However, 625 says it is broken. Lilo then names 625 \"Reuben\". He thereafter consents to help Lilo. Once the videophone is fixed, Lilo contacts the BRB-9000. Leroy impersonates Stitch, using shape-shifting to disguise himself, but fails because he does not have Stitch's tiki necklace. Hämsterviel then commands Leroy to go to Earth and capture all of the other experiments to destroy them. Lilo, sensing Stitch is in trouble, asks Reuben for help in fixing Gantu's ship. As Jumba, Pleakley, and Stitch head towards the black hole, Stitch escapes and frees the others. However, the navigational computer is locked on course for the black hole and will teleport them to a volcanic planet where they will be vaporized, but if they can disrupt the event horizon by throwing a small object into the black hole, it will send them somewhere else. Pleakley pulls out the rock that Lilo gave him and asks if this will work. After Jumba says it is too heavy, Stitch takes a bite out of it, then crawls out the front of the vehicle and throws it at the black hole. There is a flash and the vehicle is sucked in.\n\nOn Earth, a Leroy clone obtains Lilo's scrapbook of \"cousins\" and quickly captures all of them (including Mertle). Lilo and Reuben arrive at Turo, but they are too late; Hämsterviel has taken over, making the Grand Councilwoman his receptionist, and orders Gantu to lock them up. Gantu imprisons Lilo and Reuben, but decides to release them after Hämsterviel fires him. After a close call with several Leroy clones, they are trapped. All is lost until the G.A.C.C. van suddenly appears. With no time to explain, Lilo, Reuben and Gantu all climb in and head for Earth. On Earth, the original Leroy has herded all the experiments into a large stadium where \"Alohapalooza\" is about to take place. The BRB-9000 appears and Hämsterviel prepares to obliterate all of the experiments, until a timely appearance by Lilo, Stitch and the others and destroy the BRB's primary cannon. Hämsterviel reveals that he brought along his Leroy army as backup. Stitch rallies his \"cousins\" and the battle begins. Despite some initial victories by the experiments, it soon becomes apparent that the adversaries are better than them. Jumba remembers that he programmed a secret shutdown command into Leroy: if he plays Elvis Presley's \"Aloha 'Oe\", the others will deactivate. Stitch appears on-stage in his Elvis attire and plays \"Aloha 'Oe\" with Lilo and Reuben accompanying him, causing the Leroys to have violent seizures and shut down. With his plan foiled again, Hämsterviel is recaptured and put in prison.\n\nBack at the Galactic Alliance HQ, they are proclaimed \"Heroes of the Alliance\". Stitch, Jumba and Pleakley ask to be allowed to return to Earth with Lilo. The Grand Councilwoman grants this and asks Gantu if he would like to be reinstated as the Captain of the Armada. Gantu agrees on the condition that Reuben be assigned as his galley officer. Back on Earth, Lilo sets up for one last picture. Mertle arrives with Gigi (during the battle, Mertle was with Gigi and was astounded when she found that Gigi was able to talk, being one of Jumba's experiments). Lilo's last picture in the album is of all of the experiments still on Earth, Mertle, Jumba, Pleakley, Nani, David and herself. Meanwhile, Hämsterviel, along with Leroy and all of his clones, who have recovered from their seizures, are dancing to the song \"Jailhouse Rock\". As the credits roll, a full list of Jumba's experiments 001 through 626, and the names they were given by Lilo (and other characters in some instances during \"\"), scrolls along the left side of the screen.\n\n\nThe film marks the third film in the \"Lilo & Stitch\" franchise without any involvement from creators Chris Sanders and Dean DeBlois (besides Sanders providing vocals for Stitch), as they would leave Disney for DreamWorks Animation to write and direct \"How to Train Your Dragon\".\n\n\"Leroy & Stitch\" debuted on Disney Channel on June 23, 2006 and also aired on Toon Disney on June 26, 2006. It was released on DVD in the United States on June 27, 2006. Bonus features of the DVD include a then-unaired episode of \"Lilo & Stitch: The Series\" titled \"Link\" and a set-top game \"The Big Red Battleship Flight Simulator\". Distributed by Walt Disney Home Entertainment, DVD sales in the United States earned a total of $15,503,113.\n\n\"Leroy & Stitch\" received mixed reviews. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes gave the film a rating of 40% based on 5 reviews.\n\nSkyler Miller of AllMovie gave the film a rating of 3½ out of 5 stars, praising the voice acting, Elvis Presley songs, and \"[the] fast-moving plot that mixes frenetic action, sentimentality, and a few laughs.\" Miller wrote, \"While [\"Leroy & Stitch\" is] not nearly as engaging or emotionally rich as the original [\"Lilo & Stitch\"] film that inspired it [...] all in all, Leroy & Stitch is a fitting wrap-up to an enjoyable animated series.\"\n\nCinemaBlend.com gave the film a rating of 1 out of 5 stars, stating the film is \"just another direct-to-video sequel of Disney with no unusual stuff in it,\" and further uplifted and preferred the original film.\n\nThe website Common Sense Media (CSM) gave the film's quality 4 out of 5 stars and applicable for ages 5 above based on 10 reviews from both parents and children.\n\nIn 2019, Petrana Radulovic of \"Polygon\" ranked \"Leroy & Stitch\" ninth out of twenty-six films on her list of direct-to-video sequels, prequels, and \"mid-quels\" to Disney animated films, one rank higher than \"Stitch! The Movie\". Despite criticizing \"Leroy & Stitch\" for focusing more on the aliens and space over the \"charming\" characters like with \"Stitch! The Movie\", she ranked the finale film higher than the pilot film because of all the now-united 626 experiments' \"wacky and really specific powers\", stating that \"[w]e get to see what they've all been up to after acclimating to life on Hawaii[...], and see them in action in the final battle.\"\n\nLilo & Stitch Hawaiian Album is the soundtrack to \"Disney's Leroy & Stitch\". The majority of the \"Leroy & Stitch\" soundtrack are Elvis Presley records, while other parts of the soundtrack include music inspired by Gustav Holst's \"The Planets\". The soundtrack also contains score pieces from the original \"Lilo & Stitch\" film (which was composed by Alan Silvestri) and from \"Lilo & Stitch: The Series\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s pilot film \"Stitch! The Movie\" (which was composed by Michael Tavera, who was also the composer for \"The Series\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280079", "title": "Official names of the Soviet Union", "text": "Official names of the Soviet Union\n\nThe official names of the Soviet Union, officially known as the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, in the languages of the Soviet Republics (presented in the constitutional order) and other languages of the USSR, were as follows:\n"}
{"id": "2280082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280082", "title": "Independent Grouping for Reflection", "text": "Independent Grouping for Reflection\n\nThe Independent Grouping for Reflection (, GIR) was a political party in the Central African Republic. The GIR was led by François Pehoua, a former minister in the Bokassa cabinet. Pehoua was the GIR candidate in the 1981 presidential elections, finishing third of five candidates with 5% of the vote. GIR was generally based amongst bureaucrats and technocrats.\n"}
{"id": "2280084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280084", "title": "Heartbeat Records", "text": "Heartbeat Records\n\nHeartbeat Records is an independent record label based in Burlington, Massachusetts. The label specializes in Jamaican music. \n\nFounded by reggae music enthusiasts Bill Nowlin and Duncan Brown, the label's first release was a vinyl LP reissue of Linton Kwesi Johnson's \"Dread Beat an' Blood\" (1981). In 1983, Chris Wilson was hired as VP of A&R and the label began their association with Studio One label founder Clement Dodd and released \"Best of Studio One\", a compilation of Dodd-produced music by artists including Dennis Brown, Alton Ellis, The Gladiators, Marcia Griffiths, The Heptones, Slim Smith, Sugar Minott, and Johnny Osbourne, among others. Heartbeat has released over 60 Studio One albums. The label licensed music from a number of different Jamaican producers including Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, Joe Gibbs, Sonia Pottinger, Clancy Eccles, Alvin Ranglin, Duke Reid, Niney the Observer, Sly & Robbie, Steely & Clevie, and Lloyd Daley. The label financed and booked the Heartbeat Culture Splash Tour, consisting of Michael Rose, Sister Carol, the Meditations, Derrick Morgan, and the S.A.N.E. band, that toured the United States in 1996. In 2000, Heartbeat Records received a Grammy Award for Burning Spear's Heartbeat album entitled \"Calling Rastafari\" (1999) which has since been deleted from the catalog. Heartbeat Records won Boston magazine's Best of Boston 2000 award for Best Record Label. In January 2007, Heartbeat moved to Burlington, Massachusetts. The same year, Heartbeat started the web site and podcast entitled the \"Heartbeat Reggae Podcas\"t.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280085", "title": "Northern Sulphuric Soul", "text": "Northern Sulphuric Soul\n\nNorthern Sulphuric Soul is the debut studio album by English electronic music duo Rae & Christian, released on 5 October 1998 by Grand Central Records.\n\nIn the United States, \"Northern Sulphuric Soul\" was released on the <nowiki>Sm:)e</nowiki> label, with a green version of the original orange sleeve. A remastered version was released on 12 January 2004, which contained three extra tracks and alternative sleeve art.\n\nRae & Christian\n"}
{"id": "2280096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280096", "title": "Photo CD", "text": "Photo CD\n\nPhoto CD is a system designed by Kodak for digitizing and saving photos onto a CD. Launched in 1991, the discs were designed to hold nearly 100 high quality images, scanned prints and slides using special proprietary encoding. Photo CDs are defined in the Beige Book and conform to the CD-ROM XA and CD-i Bridge specifications as well. They were intended to play on CD-i players, Photo CD players (Apple's PowerCD for example), and any computer with a suitable software (LaserSoft Imaging's SilverFast DC or HDR for example).\n\nThe system failed to gain mass usage among consumers partly due to its proprietary nature, the rapidly decreasing scanner prices, and the lack of CD-ROM drives in most home personal computers of the day. Furthermore, Photo CD relied on CRT-based TV sets for home use. However, these were designed for moving pictures. Their typical flicker became an issue when watching still photographs. The Photo CD system gained a fair level of acceptance among professional photographers due to the low cost of the high quality film scans. Prior to Photo CD, professionals who wished to digitize their film images were forced to pay much higher fees to obtain drum scans of their film negatives and transparencies.\n\nThe Kodak Pro Photo CD Master Disc contains 25 images with maximum resolution of 6144 x 4096 pixels (six resolutions per file, Base/16 to 64 Base). This type is appropriate for 120 film, 4x5, but also for small picture film, if highest resolution is required.\n\nSeparate from the Photo CD format is Kodak's proprietary \"Portfolio CD\" format, which combines Red Book CD audio and Beige Book PCD with interactive menus and hotspots on PCD images. Some standalone Philips Photo/Audio CD players could play Portfolio CDs, and Windows player application was freely available. The Kodak Portfolio CD is not defined in any particular Rainbow Book.\n\nThe Photo CD system was announced by Kodak in 1990. Photo CD targeted a full range of photographic needs, ranging from consumer level point-and-shoot cameras to high-end professionals using large format 4x5 sheet film. The first Photo CD products, including scanners for processing labs and Photo CD players for consumers, became available in 1992. The project was expected to be a $600 million business by 1997 with $100 million in operational earnings. Kodak entered into a number of partnerships grow the usage of Photo CD. This included, for example, an arrangement with L.L. Bean in 1992 by which the catalog would be distributed in Photo CD format, and an arrangement with Silicon Graphics in 1993 to make all Silicon Graphics image-processing workstations capable of accepting Kodak Photo CD optical disks. These measures, together with the then relatively low cost of $3 per image and convenience, made Photo CD the digital imaging solution of choice for many photographers in the mid to late 1990s.\n\nBy 2000, over 140 Photo CD processing labs in the U.S. were active, with many more outside the U.S. However, by the late 1990s, Photo CD was being eclipsed by alternate formats, mainly based on the industry standard JPEG format. In the consumer segment, the Photo CD format's relatively inefficient compression scheme meant that Photo CD files were significantly larger than a JPEG files of similar quality, and thus less convenient for transmission across the internet, etc. For example, a 16Base Photo CD image of 5.5 Mb can be encoded as a JPEG image of 2.1 Mb at 80% quality, visually indistinguishable from the original. When the Photo CD format was designed in the early 1990s, a design goal was to allow low cost playback-to-TV devices. At that time the available technology precluded 2-dimensional compression schemes such as JPEG, but by the late 1990s, advances in microprocessor technology had moved JPEG/PNG compression to well within the range of even very low cost consumer electronics.\n\nIn the professional and advanced amateur segments, Photo CD had been eclipsed by low cost desktop scanners such as those from Nikon and Minolta in the mid range, and by drum scanners at the very high end. While the pixel resolution of Photo CD was still comparable or better than the alternatives, Photo CD suffered from a number of other disadvantages. Firstly, the Photo CD color space, designed for TV display, is smaller than what can be achieved by even a low cost desktop scanner. Secondly, the color rendition of Photo CD images changed over time and with different scanner versions; 4050 scanners had different color rendition to earlier versions. Thirdly, the dynamic range of scans was lower than for desktop scanners. Tests at the time indicated that the dmax rating (a measure of maximum density obtainable) of Photo CD was 2.8-3.0, while commonly available desktop scanners were reaching 4.2, a substantial difference. As a result of this, and Photo CD's problems with color rendering, by 2004 the professional segment of the user community had generally turned against Photo CD.\n\nIn the retail segment, while Photo CD was initially relatively popular with consumers, it was largely an economic failure for processing labs. At the time of its introduction, Kodak claimed that processing costs to labs would be close to $1 per image, which would allow the lab profitably sell at the $3 per image mark. However this promise was never realized, often resulting in the scanning process being rushed, with a resulting fall in quality.\nAs a result of Photo CD's loss of market share and substantial corporate losses, partially attributed by Kodak Management to its scanning business, Kodak abandoned the format over the period 2001-2004. By 2004, Kodak 4050 Photo CD scanners were being offered for free to anyone that would pay for their removal by more than one processing lab. This abandonment generated considerable controversy both at the time and subsequently as the Photo CD format's technical specifications have never been released by Kodak. Photo CD remains an often quoted example of an “orphan format” and of the dangers of proprietary image formats within photographic circles.\n\nDespite Kodak not releasing the specifications for the Photo CD format, it has been reverse engineered, so allowing images to be converted to more modern formats. The original reverse engineering work was performed by Hadmut Danisch of the University of Karlsruhe, who deciphered the format by studying hex dumps of Photo CD files, and subsequently wrote hpcdtoppm, which converts Photo CD Images to PPM format, in the early 1990s. During the early 1990s, hpcdtoppm was extensively distributed as part of various Linux distributions, but has since been almost entirely abandoned due to concerns about hpcdtoppm's restrictive license conditions and lack of color management. However, Hadmut Danisch's reverse engineering work has been used to create a number of other open source implementations of Photo CD decoders such as ImageMagick. In 2009, pcdtojpeg was created under the GPL open source licence. Also acknowledged by the author to be based on Hadmut Danisch's reverse engineering work, pcdtojpeg allows Photo CD metadata to be decoded, is color managed, and can decode all known variants of Photo CD files. Currently hpcdtoppm and pcdtojpeg together form the core of information available in the public domain on the technical details of the Photo CD format.\n\nPhoto CD images are stored as a hierarchy of components ranging from Base/16 to 64Base which relate to the varying image resolutions that can be reconstructed. The Base image, which has a luma resolution of 512 lines by 768 pixels, is typically used for the TV systems. The higher-resolution images are usually used for photographic imaging. The Base and lower resolution images are usually used for file indexes and thumbnails. The components used to create the Base/16 through 16Base resolutions are stored in a single file called an Image Pac. The Base, Base/4, and Base/16 images are stored uncompressed in order to allow easy extraction for display. 4Base and 16Base images are stored compressed, and as deltas (incremental images) from the resolution below them. Note all resolutions up the maximum resolution in a file (actually an Image Pac) are all present simultaneously. So, for example, a 16Base file contains a Base/16, Base/4, Base and 4Base image as well as the 16Base components. The sixth component, 64Base, is stored in separate files on the Photo CD as part of the IMAGE PAC Extension (IPE). This only exists on Photo CD Pro Master discs.\n\nPCD images use a gamma transformed YCC encoding. Under this scheme, in order to encode scanned images into Photo CD file, the first step is to preshape the RGB data via a non-linear transform:\n\nThe preshaped RGB values are then converted to a luminance and two chrominance components via a CCIR 601-1 conformant transform matrix:\n\nFinally the luminance and chrominance components are scaled to 8-bit values by the following equations:\n\nAn oddity of this encoding scheme is that it allows Photo CD images to represent colors which are above 100%, \"whiter than white\". At the time of Photo CD's introduction, this allowed the display of images on the analog televisions of the day to show brighter, more vivid colors than would otherwise be the case. This was acceptable as the analog televisions of the day were designed to be driven beyond their 100% level without abruptly clipping. However, this aspect of Photo CD encoding is not compatible with modern image formats, and is the cause of the well documented \"Blown Highlights\" problem when converting Photo CD images to more modern formats. All modern formats enforce hard clipping at 100%, resulting in highlight clipping in converted images unless some form of Photo CD specific luminance and chrominance mapping is performed.\n\nPhoto CD images use three forms of compression in order to reduce image storage requirements. Firstly, chroma subsampling reduces the size of the images by approximately 50%. This subsampling is by a factor of 4 for 4Base images, and a factor of 2 for all other resolutions. Secondly an additional reduction in size is achieved by decomposing the highest-resolution image data, and storing the 4Base, 16Base and 64Base components as residuals (differences from pixels at the previous level of resolution). Thirdly and finally, the Photo CD system employs a form of quantization and Huffman coding to further compress this residual data. This Huffman encoding is performed on an image-row-by-image-row basis. The Huffman tables are encoded into the Photo CD image itself, and have different lengths depending on the compression class. These classes are:\nFor example, to recompose an image of 1024 lines by 1536 pixels, the 512-line by 768-pixel luma Base image (which is neither \"residual\" or Huffman compressed) is interpolated to a 1024-line by 1536-pixel image. A 1024-line by 1536-pixel 4Base residual is then decompressed from its Huffman-encoded form, and its elements are added to each corresponding pixel. The resulting image contains detail for the full 1024-line by 1536-pixel sampled image. To recompose an image to a resolution of 2048 lines by 3072 pixels, the process is essentially repeated, using both the 4Base and 16Base residual. A similar operation is subsequently used to recompose the 4096 line by 6144 pixel resolution. In each step, an identical process is applied to the chroma channels.\n\nPhoto CD images nominally use a CCIR Recommendation 709 (now ITU-R Recommendation BT.709) color space and a D65 white point. This color space, originally designed for analog PAL and NTSC television use, was chosen to allow easy playback of Photo CD images to televisions. However, in practice the color space of Photo CD images varies significantly from Rec. 709. Firstly, the Photo CD encoding scheme allows greater than 100% values for color components, thus allowing Photo CD images to display colors outside of the nominal Rec. 709 gamut. In addition, in order to achieve accurate color reproduction, especially when scanning reversal film, Kodak found it necessary to provide color profiles specific to film type and scanner. As a result, by the time that the Photo CD format fell into disuse, five different color spaces were in common use in Photo CD images (PCD 4050 refers to a scanner model number):\nThus, while the use of the generic Photo CD color space will provide color reproduction that is acceptable for many purposes e.g., Web viewing of thumbnail images, in order to achieve fully accurate color reproduction, e.g., for photographic purposes, any Photo CD display or conversion software must use the correct color profile for the combination of the original media and scanner model.\n\nFor practical use, any Photo CD images will have to be converted to a modern format such as JPEG, TIFF or DNG. While there are a large number of image conversion programs available, both commercial and freeware or open source, most are capable of only basic, low resolution (often only to Base resolution, 512x768) conversions. The main distinguishing features between programs as regards Photo CD capabilities are:\n\nThe table below compares some of the better known options for converting Photo CD images.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280098", "title": "Workers Party of Acapulco", "text": "Workers Party of Acapulco\n\nWorkers Party of Acapulco () was a local political party in Acapulco, Mexico. POA was founded in 1919 by Juan R. Escudero. POA published \"Regeneración\".\n"}
{"id": "2280102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280102", "title": "Charles James Apperley", "text": "Charles James Apperley\n\nCharles James Apperley (1777 – 19 May 1843), Welsh sportsman and sporting writer from an English family, and often resident in both countries, better known as Nimrod, the pseudonym under which he published his works on the chase and on the turf, was born at Plasgronow, near Wrexham, in Denbighshire, Wales in 1777.\n\nCharles James Apperley was the second son of Thomas Apperley, Esq., of Wootton House, Gloucestershire, but is stated to have been born near Wrexham during 1778. Apperley was educated at Rugby School before joining the Ancient British Light Dragoons in 1798. He served with the regiment in Ireland, and in 1801 married Winifred Wynn of Peniarth, daughter of a Caernarvonshire landowner. He settled in Warwickshire, where he devoted himself to the pleasures of the Chase.\n\nBetween the years 1805 and 1820 Apperley devoted himself to fox-hunting. From 1813 to 1819 he was the agent for his brother-in-law's estates and lived at Tŷ Gwyn, Llanbeblig. Around 1821, under the pseudonym of \"Nimrod\", Apperley began to contribute a series of articles to \"The Sporting Magazine\" that covered horse races, hunt meets and other sporting events. His references to the personalities of the people he knew or met at such events helped to double the circulation of the magazine within a few years. Mr. Pittman, the proprietor of \"The Sporting Magazine\", gave Nimrod a handsome salary and defrayed all the expenses of his tours. He also gave Nimrod a stud of hunters. After Pittman's death, the proprietors of the magazine sued Apperley for the money that had been advanced. To avoid imprisonment, Apperley moved to Calais in 1830, where he supported himself by writing. Apperley is best known for the two books, \"The Life of a Sportsman\", and \"Memoirs of the Life of John Mytton\", both of which were illustrated with coloured engravings by Henry Thomas Alken.\n\nApperley eventually returned to England and died in Upper Belgrave Place, London, on 19 May 1843.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280104", "title": "Li Long", "text": "Li Long\n\nLi Long is an assassin, who failed in a mission to kill the leader of a Japanese pirate faction. Taken in by an innkeeper and his daughter, he fell in love with the girl only for her to be apparently killed. Desiring revenge, he battles wandering swordsmen and steals their weapons, while searching for the cursed sword Soul Edge. After being severely beaten by its wielder and now on the run pursued by assassins sent by his former employer, he reflects on who he is with doubt, until he meets a woman reminding him of his lost love. Reinvigorated, Li Long now searches to discover who he is. As a character, Li Long was positively received, and described as \"the most dramatic\" of the characters in \"Soul Edge\". His replacement by another character later in the series, Maxi, has been criticized by the media, with several sources stating a preference for him.\n\nAs a character introduced in \"Soul Edge\", Li Long's weapon, a pair of nunchaku with mounted blades, were selected before other elements of the character. One of several weapons initially considered for the character Hwang early in development, they were designed to be unique amongst the other weapons in the game. Li Long's design and concept were built to revolve around them, starting with gender, then physical measurements, and lastly background details. After his appearance and movement were fleshed out by a concept artist, his character was rendered as a 3D model by a design team that worked solely on him, and then animated by a motion designer using motion capture to create his in-game movements. During development, many ideas were considered for Li Long's appearance, including several younger drafts. Another idea considered was for him to fight using kung fu, instead of solely with his nunchaku.\n\nDue to a ban of nunchaku weapons in the United Kingdom, his weapon was changed to a three-section staff for European releases of \"Soul Blade\", with a section of staff replacing the chain in terms of appearance. Li Long was initially considered for inclusion for \"Soulcalibur\", however the developers instead decided to focus on creating a new character using the same weapon for the title, resulting in Maxi. Later, due to the character's popularity, Li Long was selected to be included in home and arcade versions of \"Soulcalibur III\". In an interview, \"Soulcalibur IV\" director Katsutoshi Sasaki stated many fans had requested for the character to reappear in the series, though added no plans had been made to release the character as downloadable content for the title.\n\nIn \"Soul Edge\", Li Long appears as a tall, Asian male with his brown hair tied in a knot atop his head with long, thick sideburns. His facial contours, expressions and hairdo were designed to be sharp, intended to suggest the \"assassin\" side of his character, as well as imply the image of Chinese culture in the character. A large light brown jacket with green trimming covers his arms, while a large belt wraps around his midsection. Dark brown pants ending in white trimming cover his legs, and blue and white stripped shoes cover his feet. His alternate character model varies significantly, featuring a shaved head, blue and gray vest with an open collar, small gold belt, green pants, and blue and red striped shoes. Li Long stands tall.\n\nWhen considering his appearance for \"Soulcalibur\", different designs were considered, including one with a heavily bandaged eye and scarred appearance intended to imply his fate at the end of \"Soul Edge\", and another modeled after his appearance in \"Soul Edge\"s opening sequence, featuring a wide-brimmed hat, though both designs were rejected as the developers felt they made the character appear too thin. Elements from both were reused for \"Soulcalibur III\", retaining the hat while giving his left eye a damaged appearance. Elements of his previous design were retained, with the addition of a green vest and bracers, and the lengthening of the tail of his coat to his mid-thighs. His alternate character model from \"Soul Edge\" was added as his alternate in the game, featuring minimal changes save for opening the vest to have his chest be bare.\n\nIntroduced in \"Soul Edge\", Li Long is an assassin sent by the Emperor of China to kill a pirate lord, but failed. Badly injured, he was rescued by a fugitive female ninja named Chie and eventually fell in love with her. One day, her former comrades pursuing Chie caught up with them and she was believed to be dead. Told falsely the swordsman Heishirō Mitsurugi was responsible, he set out after Soul Edge knowing Mitsurugi was also after the blade. Along the way he takes the weapons of other fighters he defeats, repurposing some for his own use. Upon finding and defeating him, he realized Mitsurugi had no part in the attack upon Chie, and continued his goal of searching for Soul Edge. He located its wielder, Cervantes, but was beaten severely. Revealed to have survived in \"Soulcalibur III\" but having lost an eye, he found himself on the run from assassins sent by his Chie's former clan leader. Traveling by night under a false name, he was taken in by a girl that reminded him of Chie. When the assassins eventually found him, Li Long stood his ground and defeated them. Remembering the feel of fighting for something other than revenge, he set out to find himself, not knowing that Chie was actually alive and, after giving birth to their son, had set out to find him.\n\nLi Long's fighting style in \"Soul Edge\" has been described as accessible to novices of the game, while also usable by experienced players. His Reverse Scales attack consists of three swift horizontal attacks one after another, while his Flaming Fangs attack is similar, only vertical, requiring opponents to guard the attacks differently. Other attacks also consist of variations of existing moves with a different conclusion, such as his Combined Wind and Sand-Dust attacks, which both give similar visible cues but with the latter ending in a lower strike. Others moves such as Violent Cannon make use of feints, appearing to attack from one angle but striking from another.\n\nIn \"Soulcalibur III\", Li Long represents the game's \"nunchaku\" fighting style available to player-created characters through the game's character creation mode. Though the style utilized several elements from Maxi, many elements were altered, including attack commands, stance, and a separate series of weapons. With the character's inclusion in the arcade edition of \"Soulcalibur III\", alterations were made to further define Li Long's fighting style as unique, modifying several attacks to utilize two nunchaku simultaneously as a result.\n\nIn addition to artwork, many promotional items for \"Soul Edge\" featured Li Long's likeness, including toys, window shades and table coasters. A two-page promotional comic was also released by Namco for the character, featuring Mitsurugi attempting to assist him in winning Chie's heart.\n\nIn a 2002 poll by Namco prior to the release of \"Soulcalibur II\" regarding their favorite character from the series, Li Long placed last, part of a three-way tie with 1% of the poll's results. \"MAXIMUM\", on the other hand, described him as \"one of the most dramatic characters in the game\", citing visible similarity to actor Bruce Lee's use of nunchaku. \"Retronauts\" in their retrospective of the series cited Li Long as an aspect of \"Soul Edge\" not included in later titles they missed. Comparisons have been drawn between the character and later series character Maxi, with sources such as 1UP.com stating preference for the former. GameDaily staff writer Eugene Huang shared the sentiment while naming him as one of his favorite characters, describing his attacks as \"focused around efficacy and efficiency\" and praising the character as having a compelling backstory.\n"}
{"id": "2280105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280105", "title": "MIT in popular culture", "text": "MIT in popular culture\n\nThe Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), a private research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States, has been referenced by many works of cinema, television and the written word. MIT's overall reputation has greater influence on its role in popular culture than does any particular aspect of its history or student lifestyle. Because MIT is well known as a breeding ground for technology and technologists, the makers of modern media are able to use it to establish character in a way that mainstream audiences can understand. A smaller number of works use MIT directly as their scene of action.\n\nThe use of \"MIT as metaphor\" is relatively widespread, so much so that in popular culture, \"\"the MIT of\"\" is an idiom for \"top science and engineering university\", or \"elite technical institution\", like \"\"Cadillac of\"\" for \"most luxurious\", or \"\"an Einstein\"\" for \"intelligent person\". Similarly, any regionally prominent science or engineering school is likely to be called \"\"the MIT of\"\" that region. For example, the Georgia Institute of Technology and the University of Texas at Dallas have also been popularly and historically referred to as \"\"the MIT of the South\"\". Additionally, US Senator Richard Shelby (R-Alabama) touted the University of Alabama in Huntsville as a possible \"\"MIT of the South\".\" Other examples, make \"\"X is the MIT of Y\"\" an example of a snowclone (a family of formulaic clichés).\n\nFrequently, when a character in Hollywood cinema is required to have a science or engineering background, or in general possess an extremely high level of intelligence, the film establishes that he or she is an MIT graduate or associate. (MIT can also be a comparative or a metaphor for intellect in general: \"Would they think of \"that\" at MIT?\"). Numerous films and television series indulge in this technique, including:\n\nIn \"Iron Man,\" several close-ups of Terrence Howard clearly show his character (\"Jim Rhodes\") to be wearing a brass rat; Robert Downey, Jr.'s character (\"Tony Stark\") appears to wear one as well in the movie.\n\nJames Burke's television series \"The Day the Universe Changed\" (1985) employs the same technique for a more academic purpose. In the episode \"Point of View\", which describes the discovery of perspective geometry and its ramifications, Burke spends a little time in the Italian city of Padua. This city, which hosted the second-oldest Italian university after Bologna, boasted a large concentration of intellectuals. In Burke's phrase, Padua was \"the MIT of the fifteenth century\". An episode of his later series \"Connections 2\" (1994) uses a similar shorthand to characterize the seventeenth-century Royal Society.\n\nThe television series \"Numbers\" has several different connections to MIT. The pilot episode was shot in Boston. Co-creator and Executive Producer Cheryl Heuton says, \"We originally tried to choose MIT for the show. We originally set the show in Boston, and Charlie [Eppes, one of the main characters,] was going to be a professor at MIT. We contacted MIT, and their answer was they're not in the film and TV business...\" Multiple episodes of the show mention that Charlie studied at MIT. Dylan Bruno, the actor who plays Colby Granger, has earned a bachelor's degree in environmental engineering from MIT.\n\nFilms set at MIT are less common than those that use the MIT name as metaphor. Nevertheless, MIT has been part of movie settings, in such films as \"Blown Away\" (1994), \"Good Will Hunting\" (1997), \"A Beautiful Mind\" (2001), \"21\" (2008), and \"Knowing\" (which also features exteriors of the Haystack Observatory). Most of the scenes for these movies, especially indoor scenes, are in fact filmed elsewhere due to MIT's reluctance to give permission to film on campus. Although portions of \"Blown Away\" were shot on the institute campus, the film still makes several geographical errors about MIT and Boston in general. An incidental scene in \"The Friends of Eddie Coyle\" (1973) was shot on location outside of MIT Baker House. A scene in \"A Small Circle of Friends\" (1980) was shot in Walker Memorial, an MIT cafeteria and gymnasium. The movie setting portrays Harvard University, but Harvard declined to allow the filming on their campus.\n\nSome cinematic references to MIT betray a mild anti-intellectualism, or at least a lack of respect for \"book learning\". For example, \"Space Cowboys\" features the seasoned hero (Clint Eastwood) trying to explain a piece of antiquated spacecraft technology to a rather whippersnapping youngster. When the young astronaut fails to comprehend Eastwood's explanation, he snaps that \"I have two master's degrees from MIT\", to which Eastwood replies, \"Maybe you should get your money back\". Similarly, Gus Van Sant's introduction to the published \"Good Will Hunting\" screenplay suggests that the lead character's animosity towards official MIT academia reflects a class struggle with ethnic undertones, in particular Will Hunting's Irish background versus the \"English aristocracy\" of the MIT faculty. \"Help!\", The Beatles' second film, ties MIT to the mad scientist stereotype when Professor Foot (Victor Spinetti) declares, \"MIT was after me, you know. Wanted me to rule the world for them!\"\n\nHBO's television miniseries \"From the Earth to the Moon\" (1998) contains segments set at MIT, most notably in the episode covering Apollo 14. The series portrays the institute's denizens as very slightly eccentric engineers who do their part to keep the Apollo program running successfully.\n\n\"Inside\" MIT references also appear in film without attribution. In \"Stir Crazy\" (1980), the opening close-up shot of Grossberger, played by Erland Van Lidth De Jeude (MIT Class of 1976, SB in Computer Science & Engineering), clearly reveals his actual \"Brass Rat\" class ring. In \"The Adventures of Rocky and Bullwinkle\" (2000), a background image of Whassamatta U. is recognizable as a main MIT building.\n\nMIT is referenced in some Japanese anime: the sci-fi series \"Neon Genesis Evangelion\" mentions MIT as the location of one of the replica MAGI supercomputers; the comedy series \"Pani Poni Dash!\" revolves around an 11-year-old student who graduated from MIT and travels to Japan to become a high school teacher. The CIA character \"Ed Hoffman\" in the film \"Body of Lies\" can be seen wearing an MIT shirt in multiple shots.\n\nIn the television series \"Las Vegas\" (2003), Mike Cannon (played by James Lesure), one of the main characters, is a highly intelligent, and technically very gifted engineer and MIT graduate. The character Eli Wallace in the television series SGU Stargate Universe (2009–2011) is a genius MIT dropout.\n\nIndividual characters in single episodes of television series are often announced as MIT graduates. For example, in the 1992 episode \"The Corporate Veil\" of the television series \"Law & Order\", both mother and son protagonists are said to be electrical engineering graduates of MIT. MIT was also mentioned in the pilot episode of \"Gilmore Girls\".\n\nOn separate episodes of \"Da Ali G Show\" (2003–2004), Ali G (played by Sacha Baron Cohen) interviewed two MIT professors: Jerome Friedman, Institute Professor and Professor of Physics Emeritus, and Noam Chomsky, Institute Professor Emeritus.\n\nRandal Pinkett, the winner of season 4 of \"The Apprentice\", is an MIT alum, with an SM in Electrical Engineering (1998), an MBA from Sloan School of Management (1998), and a PhD in Media Arts & Sciences from the Media Lab (2001).\n\nTwo lead characters in the television series \"Fringe\" have MIT backgrounds: Walter Bishop earned a Ph.D. at MIT, and his son Peter Bishop falsified an MIT degree.\n\nThe movie \"Keeping Up with the Joneses\" (2016) depicts its protagonist, Jeff Gaffney (Zach Galifianakis), pretending to be a scientist named Dr. Rascal Flatts, about whom his wife says, \"He's very smart. MIT.\"\n\nAn episode of the television series \"The Magicians\" (2016) introduces a character named Kira (Yaani King Mondschein), who says, \"I went to MIT, but I didn't study a lick of magic in school\".\n\nIn the television series \"Timeless\" (2016), a protagonist named Rufus Carlin (Malcolm Barrett) often mentions on the show that he is an alumnus of MIT. In one episode, Carlin time travels to 1893 and meets real-life MIT alumna Sophia Hayden (MIT Class of 1890), who assumes that Carlin must be Robert Robinson Taylor (MIT Class of 1892), the first African-American student at MIT.\n\nA story arc from Rocky and Bullwinkle, Goof Gas Attack, starts with a gas attack that induces stupidity at the \"Double Dome Institute of Advanced Thinking\". The MIT campus is noted for its 2 neoclassical domes.\n\nIn the 2018 animated series, Tenacious D in Post-Apocalypto, the protagonists meet a group of scientists who say, \"Where are we from? MIT, where else? We are the top uttermost scientists in all of the world, surviving.\"\n\nThe comedian James Mattern, in his 2019 comedy album \"No Segues,\" tells this story: \"When they invented emojis years ago in Cupertino, California, who had the gall to go to Steve Jobs like, 'Steve, I've got a great idea -- how about drips of water?' 'Eureka, Merv, way to use your MIT degree.'\" \n\nThe title character of the 2019 movie \"Shaft\" (2019) is a cybersecurity expert with a degree from MIT.\n\nIn a 2019 episode of the television series \"Lost in Space\", principal character Judy Robinson's biological father, Grant Kelly, is described as having had \"a scholarship to MIT when he was 17 and graduated top of his class.\"\n\nTom Magliozzi and his younger brother Ray were \"Click and Clack, The Tappet Brothers\", the hosts of National Public Radio's comedy car advice show \"Car Talk\". Both were MIT alumni — Tom earned a degree in chemical engineering (1958), and Ray earned a degree in humanities and general science (1972) — and they regularly used that fact in their self-deprecating attempts to establish their credibility on technical matters. After campaigning on-air for years, they were finally invited to speak at MIT's 1999 commencement exercise. Although Tom Magliozzi died in 2014, and their radio show had stopped new programming in 2012, past episodes continue to be aired nationally as \"The Best of Car Talk\".\n\nNonfiction works have examined MIT, its history, and its various subcultures. In addition to books like \"Nightwork,\" which recount the institute's hacking tradition, Benson Snyder's \"The Hidden Curriculum\" (1970) describes the state of MIT student and faculty psychology in the late 1960s. Noted physicist and raconteur Richard Feynman built up a collection of anecdotes about his MIT undergraduate years, several of which are retold in his loose memoir \"Surely You're Joking, Mr. Feynman!\" Some of this material was incorporated into Matthew Broderick's film \"Infinity\" (1996), in addition to Feynman stories from Far Rockaway, Princeton University, and Los Alamos, New Mexico.\n\nIn fiction, the novel \"Now, Voyager\" (1941, by Olive Higgins Prouty) features a key character, Jeremiah Duvaux Durrance, who studied architecture at MIT. The novel \"The Gadget Maker\" (1955, by Maxwell Griffith) traces the life of aeronautical engineer Stanley Brack, who performs his undergraduate studies at MIT. Ben Bova's novel \"The Weathermakers\" (1966) about scientists developing methods to prevent hurricanes from reaching land, is also set in part at MIT. Patricia Vasquez visits (or comes from) MIT in Greg Bear's \"Eon\" (1985). Neal Stephenson hints at MIT in \"Quicksilver\" (2004), and other books of \"The Baroque Cycle\", by having Daniel Waterhouse found the \"Massachusetts Bay Colony Institute of the Technologickal Arts\" in the 18th century.\n\nAyn Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\" begins with architecture student Howard Roark being expelled from the fictional \"Stanton Institute of Technology\". As that institute is depicted as being located in a seashore suburb of Boston, it seems that MIT – specifically, its School of Architecture – was meant.\n\nFocusing principally on campus architecture, Robert B. Parker wrote in \"Mortal Stakes\" (the third Spenser novel), \"Across the river MIT loomed like a concrete temple to The Great God Brown.\"\n\nJhumpa Lahiri's \"The Namesake\" features a character, Ashoke, who received his PhD in Fiber Optics from MIT.\n\nWhen the novel \"The Magicians\" by Lev Grossman was first published in 2009, the principal review of the book in \"The New York Times\" described the story's academic location, Brakebills College, as \"kind of like the M.I.T. [sic] for magic\".\n\nThe 2012 historical fiction novel \"The Technologists\", by Matthew Pearl, is set in the MIT of 1868, during its first decade of existence. The protagonists are some of the first students to enroll in the fledgling college, and include both fictional composite characters and real-life historical figures, such as Ellen Swallow Richards and Daniel Chester French. In response to a high-tech terrorist attack on the City of Boston, the students form a secret research laboratory to discover the perpetrator and to forestall further attacks. They interact closely with prominent historical figures, such as William Barton Rogers (the founder of MIT), Harvard professor Louis Agassiz (pioneer of modern geology and paleontology), and Charles William Eliot (then an MIT professor, and soon to become the longest-serving president of Harvard University). The author spent many hours doing background research in the MIT Archives while writing the novel, and weaves many historical details into his narrative of mystery and adventure.\n\n\"Geeks & Greeks\" (2016) is a semi-autobiographical graphic novel by Steve Altes and Andy Fish, set at MIT. The story was inspired by MIT's hacking culture and Altes's experiences with fraternity hazing.\n\nIn Thornton Wilder's play \"Our Town\", the stage manager mentions the gravestone of Joe Crowell, whom he describes as \"awful bright – graduated from high school here, head of his class. So he got a scholarship to Massachusetts Tech. Graduated head of his class there, too. It was all wrote up in the Boston paper at the time. Goin’ to be a great engineer, Joe was. But the war broke out and he died in France. – All that education for nothing.\"\n\nMIT is a recurring motif in the works of Kurt Vonnegut, much like the planet Tralfamadore or the Vietnam War. In part, this recurrence may stem from Vonnegut family history: both his grandfather Bernard and his father Kurt, Sr. studied at MIT and received bachelor's degrees in architecture. His older brother, another Bernard, earned a bachelor's and a PhD in chemistry, also at MIT. Since so many of Vonnegut's stories are ambivalent or outright pessimistic with regard to technology's impact on humankind, it is hardly surprising that his references to the Institute express a mixed attitude.\n\nIn \"Hocus Pocus\" (1990), the Vietnam-veteran narrator Eugene Debs Hartke applies for graduate study in MIT's physics program, but his plans go awry when he tangles with a hippie at a Harvard Square Chinese restaurant. Hartke observes that men in uniform had become a ridiculous sight around colleges, even though both Harvard and MIT obtained much of their income from weapons research and development. (\"I would have been dead if it weren't for that great gift to civilization from the Chemistry Department of Harvard, which was napalm, or sticky jellied gasoline.\") \"Jailbird\" notes drily that MIT's eighth president was one of the three-man committee who upheld the Sacco and Vanzetti ruling, condemning the two men to death. As reported in \"The Tech\", June 7, 1927:\n\n\"Palm Sunday\" (1981), a loose collage of essays and other material, contains a markedly skeptical and humanist commencement address Vonnegut gave to Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, New York. Speaking of the role religion plays in modern society, Vonnegut notes:\n\nKurt Vonnegut was friends with fellow humanist and writer Isaac Asimov, who resided for many years in Newton, Massachusetts. During much of this time, Asimov chose the date for the MIT Science Fiction Society's annual picnic, citing a superstition that he always picked a day with good weather. In his copious autobiographical writings, Asimov reveals a mild predilection for the institute's architecture, and an awareness of its aesthetic possibilities. For example, \"In Joy Still Felt\" (1980) describes a 1957 meeting with Catherine de Camp, who was checking out colleges for her teenage son. Asimov recalls:\n\nAsimov's work, too, trades on MIT's reputation for narrative effect, even touching upon an anti-academic theme. In the short story \"The Dead Past\" (1956), the scientist-hero Foster must overcome the attitudes his Institute physics training has entrenched in his mind, before he can make his critical breakthrough. Several jokes in \"Isaac Asimov's Treasury of Humor\" and its sequel \"Asimov Laughs Again\" hinge upon MIT, its reputation for scientific prowess, and the technocentric focus of its students. In a similar vein, the satirical newspaper \"The Onion\" published an article entitled \"Corpse-Reanimation Technology Still 10 Years Off, Say MIT Mad Scientists\", among many others in the same general tradition.\n\nSince 1983, science fiction writer Joe Haldeman has been an adjunct professor teaching writing at MIT, and knows the institution well. This is very evident in \"The Accidental Time Machine\" where MIT at various past and future times in its history plays a central role. The institution is described with considerable affection and much \"insider\" knowledge of the hidden corners in the MIT campus (as well as conspicuous parts of its geography such as the Green Building and the Infinite Corridor), of the relations between students and lecturers, and of various wild and rather illicit student practices.\n\nThe book begins with MIT student Matt Fuller accidentally discovering the time machine of the title. He jumps a decade forward to find that his professor has taken credit for his discovery and gotten a Nobel Prize for it; jumps centuries ahead and finds a theocracy where MIT is the Massachusetts Institute of \"Theology\"; and after more adventures winds up in the past, in the late 19th century when MIT was still in its original location on Boylston Street. In all time periods, under vastly differing circumstances, the protagonist becomes an MIT full professor.\n\nSeveral comic strips make use of MIT. In \"Doonesbury,\" Kim Rosenthal almost earned her PhD in computer science, dropping out because it was \"too easy\". In the fall of 2006, Kim and Mike Doonesbury's daughter Alex entered MIT as a freshman. (The 3 October 2006 \"Doonesbury\" strip satirizes the \"MIT of\" snowclone; Zipper Harris declares the fictional Walden College to be \"the MIT of southern Connecticut\".) Dilbert received a degree from Course VI-1. Bill Amend's \"FoxTrot\" has also made MIT allusions, in keeping with the strip's genial satire of nerd subcultures. On Christmas Day 2005, the comic strip \"Baby Blues\" featured a character reading the instruction manual accompanying a gadget that he has given to his child as a Christmas present. The first volume of instructions begins, \"\"Assembly Instructions\" — \"Step 1:\" Obtain a master's degree in mechanical engineering from M.I.T. \"Step 2:\" ...\"\n\nSome genres of computer and video games have characterization requirements like those of movies. For example, a game involving a team of commandos might require a member who can break into computers, crack security systems, or work with explosives. This character's background would typically have to be established very quickly and efficiently, perhaps within one screen of introductory text. Stating that a commando or top-secret operative \"graduated from MIT\" is one way to accomplish this.\n\nMIT is mentioned in the computer games \"Area 51\" (1995), \"Half-Life\" (1998), \"Half-Life 2\" (2004), \"Metal Gear Solid\" (1998), and in the \"Fallout\" series (1997–2015).\n\nIn the case of the \"Half-Life\" series, the main protagonist, Gordon Freeman, is an MIT graduate and has a PhD in Theoretical Physics.\n\nThe Infocom game \"The Lurking Horror\" (1987), written by MIT alumnus and interactive fiction pioneer Dave Lebling, is set on the campus of the George Underwood Edwards Institute of Technology, which strongly resembles MIT. Its fictional culture also parodies the MIT culture. For instance, G.U.E. Tech's class ring is known as the \"brass hyrax\", parodying MIT's Brass Rat.\n\nIn the \"Fallout\" games, MIT is known as the \"Commonwealth Institute of Technology\". As nuclear war began, researchers from the university hid below the main building and continued with their research without making contact with other survivors. Eventually after many years, they took on the title of simply \"The Institute\", and became well known as a shady organization with extraordinary technology and the ability to create androids. The institute is featured as a major faction in the 2015 title, \"Fallout 4\".\nIn , one of the main characters in the story is Edwin Robert House, also called Mr. House is a graduate of the institute, as stated in his obituary.\n\nIn the Broadway musical \"Rent\" (1996–2008), a major character, Tom Collins, is expelled from teaching at MIT, \"for [his] theory of actual reality\".\n\nThe song \"Etoh\" by the electronic music group The Avalanches describes MIT as \"the home of complicated computers, which speak a mechanical language all their own\". This lyric can be taken literally, or it can be read metaphorically as a description of MIT student culture. Allan Sherman's paean to initialisms, \"Harvey and Sheila\", notes that Harvey \"works for IBM; he went to MIT, got his PhD\". Rhythm and blues group Tony! Toni! Toné! mentions MIT in the song \"Born Not To Know\", from their 1988 debut album \"Who?\" In the song, a pretentious individual rattles off a long list of his impressive academic credentials—culminating with a \"Ph. D from MIT\"—only to then ask, \"so, can I get a job?\" Tony! Toni! Toné! responds with a resounding \"No!\"\n\n\"Nerdcore\" rap artist MC Hawking's song \"All My Shootin's Be Drive-bys\" (1997) takes tropes associated with gangsta rap and plays them out in a more academic setting. He speaks of taking revenge for the death of a friend, part of his Cambridge, UK crew:\n\nWhen the narrator learns the identity of Pookie's killers, he decides to \"give a Newtonian demonstration, of a bullet its mass and its acceleration\", leaving six MIT students dead in the street.\n\n\"Weird Al\" Yankovic's \"White & Nerdy\" (2006) riffs upon MIT, along with a plenitude of other geek culture references — \"Star Wars Holiday Special,\" pocket protectors and editing Wikipedia, to name a few. Yankovic claims that he graduated \"first in [his] class here at MIT\"; however, the institute does not assign class rankings or confer traditional Latin honors upon its graduates.\n\nThe students and faculty of MIT have produced their own share of musical material. For example, the mathematician and satirist Tom Lehrer taught for a time in MIT's political science department, lecturing on quantitative methods and statistics. This experience led him to write a song called \"Sociology\", played to the tune of Irving Berlin's \"Choreography\". The lyrics conclude,\n\nStudents have also written their own songs during their tenures at the institute. This tradition, which goes back at least to The Doormat Singers of the 1960s, continues with several present-day groups.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280115", "title": "Buckhorn Lake (Kentucky)", "text": "Buckhorn Lake (Kentucky)\n\nBuckhorn Lake, located south of Buckhorn, Kentucky, United States and northwest of Hazard, Kentucky off Kentucky Route 28, is a reservoir created by the United States Army Corps of Engineers in 1967 by impounding the Kentucky River.\n\nBuckhorn Lake is an impoundment of the Middle Fork of the Kentucky River. Buckhorn Dam is an earthen dam, 160 feet high and 1,020 feet in length at its crest, with a maximum capacity of 167,900 acre-feet and normal storage of 32,100 acre feet. The origin of the lake's name is uncertain. Some claim the name is taken from the discovery of a buck's horn at a nearby salt lick. Others claim that it is named for a buck killed by Jerry Smith, the area's first settler.\n\nBuckhorn Lake is home to a sizable population of muskie, making it an attractive destination for fishermen.\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Buckhorn Lake has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated \"Cfa\" on climate maps.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280118", "title": "Psion Revo", "text": "Psion Revo\n\nThe Psion Revo, launched in November 1999, is a PDA from Psion. It is the successor to the Psion Series 3 and a light version of Psion 5mx. It is software-compatible with the \"5mx\" and has the same processor but is more lightweight (200 g vs 354 g of 5mx) and substantially smaller (157 × 79 × 17 mm). In comparison with the \"Series 5/5mx\", the Revo has a smaller screen (480 × 160 vs 640 × 240 of Series 5/5mx) and also lacks a flash-card slot and a backlight.\n\nThe Psion Revo comes in two main variants, \"Psion Revo\" and \"Psion Revo Plus\", having 8 and 16 MB of RAM respectively. It is powered by a 36 MHz ARM 710T microprocessor. Among other things, the hardware is equipped with a short-distance IrDA wireless infrared communication system and a touchscreen. Like its bigger counterpart Series 5mx, it comes with a small suite of office and communications programs built into the ROM chips. Other programs are user-installable by using a \"dock\" to send Revo programs from a PC.\n\nSONICblue produced a rebadged version of the Psion Revo Plus called the \"Diamond Mako\", which they distributed in the United States and in Canada.\n\nAlong with Enfour, Psion produced two versions of the Revo for the Chinese market called the 618C (Traditional Chinese) and 618S (Simplified Chinese).\n\nAn open-source project OpenPsion, formerly PsiLinux, aims to port Linux to the Psion Revo and other Psion PDAs. See the OpenPsion site or the site of Revol, which is an optimized version of OpenPsion for the Revo.\n\nShortly before the demise of Psion in the commercial PDA market work had begun on a successor to the Revo, a 3rd-generation PDA known by its codename of Conan.\nThe Conan ran Epoc Release 6 and was to feature support for Bluetooth and a backlight, although the former wasn't functional in the development builds.\nThe Revo was notorious for battery and charging problems.. Unlike the Series 5mx, which used 2 user-replaceable AA batteries, the Revo is powered by 2 built-in rechargeable AAA 700 mAh NiMH batteries, which typically need to be replaced after about 3 years of service. After backing up all data, the batteries can be accessed by closing the unit, peeling off the Revo logo (using a screwdriver or similar if necessary), moving the 2 small pins that are behind it, and lifting up the silver part of the casing. The batteries are wrapped in black tape, which can be removed starting from the left, taking care not to break the thermistor that it also encloses. It may not be possible to separate the batteries from their connectors without damaging the latter, which would then need to be replaced. Injury could result if separation is attempted with a blade. Replacement batteries must be taped in just as securely, otherwise resets could occur due to intermittent power loss. After replacing, the unit should be charged uninterrupted for at least 6 hours, so that the hardware can re-calibrate (as per instructions for a new unit).\n\n"}
{"id": "2280119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280119", "title": "1980 in baseball", "text": "1980 in baseball\n\nWorld Series: Philadelphia Phillies over Kansas City Royals (4–2); Mike Schmidt, MVP\n\nWinter Leagues\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMay 1 - New York Mets starting pitcher Pete Falcone strikes out the first six batters he faces in a game versus the Philadelphia Phillies. Falcone strikes out Lonnie Smith, Pete Rose. Garry Maddox, Mike Schmidt, Greg Luzinski, and Bob Boone. The seventh batter, shortstop Larry Bowa grounded out. Despite the success early, the Mets fall to Philadelphia 2–1.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280120", "title": "Sleepwalking (Rae &amp; Christian album)", "text": "Sleepwalking (Rae &amp; Christian album)\n\nThe second album by Grand Central Records artists Rae & Christian, released in 2001.\nIn the US it was released on the Studio !K7 label.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280128", "title": "Bullock Pen Lake", "text": "Bullock Pen Lake\n\nBullock Pen Lake, located between Boone County and Grant County in Kentucky, is a 134 acres (54 ha) reservoir constructed in 1963 by the damming of Bullock Pen Creek.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280135", "title": "Paul Granlund", "text": "Paul Granlund\n\nPaul T. Granlund (October 6, 1925, Minneapolis, Minnesota – September 15, 2003, Mankato, Minnesota) was an American sculptor. His creative career spanned more than 50 years and more than 650 different works. Most of his work is figurative and made from bronze. His patrons included colleges, hospitals, Lutheran churches, and other institutions.\n\nPaul Theodore Granlund was born on October 6, 1925, in Minneapolis, the son of the Rev. Clarence and Naomi Granlund. He attended Central High School in Minneapolis. He married Edna Spaeth in 1950. Granlund received his Bachelor of Arts from Gustavus Adolphus College in St. Peter, Minnesota in 1952 and his Master of Fine Arts from Cranbrook Academy of Art in Michigan in 1954. Awarded a Fulbright scholarship to study sculpture in Italy the same year, he later returned on Guggenheim Foundation fellowships in 1957–1959. During the 1960s and '70s, he was a faculty member at the Minneapolis College of Art and Design. He also chaired the sculpture department for 14 years.\nPaul Granlund was the sculptor in residence at his alma mater, Gustavus Adolphus College, from 1971 until his retirement in 1996, and maintained a studio at the institution until his death. Over 30 works are on campus, including the friezes and doors of Christ Chapel. While artist in residence, he taught notable Minnesota bronze sculptor Nicholas Legeros from 1978 to 1980.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280139", "title": "PC Tools (software)", "text": "PC Tools (software)\n\nPC Tools was a collection of software utilities for DOS developed by Central Point Software.\n\nThe original PC Tools package was first developed as a suite of utilities for DOS, released for retail in 1985 for $39.95.\n\nWith the introduction of version 4.0, the name was changed to PC Tools Deluxe, and the primary interface became a colorful graphical shell (previously the shell resembled PC BOSS and was monochrome.) By version 7.0 of the package in 1991 several Windows programs had been added to it. \n\nThough the 7.0 version sold well, it was criticised in computer trade publications for being overcomplicated and riddled with bugs. It was widely considered to have been rushed to publication, despite the objections of many of Central Point Software's employees. PC Tools PRO (Version 9) for DOS was the last stable version released by Central Point Software before acquisition. \n\nIn June 1994 Central Point was acquired by their top competitor Symantec. The package MORE PC Tools was released by Symantec's Central Point Division in October 1994 and included additional utilities: Backtrack, CrashGuard Pro (ex-Central Point Recuperator), DriveCheck, DriveSpeed. After that the product line was ultimately discontinued. PC Tools was the main competitor to Norton Utilities, which Symantec had acquired in 1990. \n\nSymantec now uses the PC Tools brand name—acquired from an Australian security vendor in 2008—for low-cost antivirus and antispyware software\n\nThe PC Tools brand was retired on December 4, 2013 and the website now refers visitors to products in Symantec's Norton product line.\n\n\nThe Mirror, Undelete, and Unformat utilities were licensed by Central Point to Microsoft for inclusion in MS-DOS 5.0. Central Point Anti-Virus and VDefend were licensed as Microsoft AntiVirus and VSafe, respectively, in MS-DOS 6.0 through 6.22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280140", "title": "List of basilicas in Italy", "text": "List of basilicas in Italy\n\nThe following is a list of Roman Catholic basilicas in Italy, listed by diocese. As of 30 June 2016, there are 573 basilicas in Italy.\n\nThe date of creation as a basilica is in parentheses.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere are 4 major basilicas of the Catholic Church in the Italian peninsula; 3 in the city of Rome proper and 1 in Vatican City. The latter is completely surrounded by the city of Rome and is part of the Diocese of Rome.\n\nThere are 62 minor basilicas of the Catholic Church in Italy, excluding the above major basilicas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280141", "title": "1981 in baseball", "text": "1981 in baseball\n\n\nNOTE: Due to a strike in mid-season, the season was divided into a first half and a second half. The division winner of the first half (denoted East 1, West 1) played the division winner of the second half (denoted East 2, West 2).\n\nInternational\nWinter Leagues\nCollege\nYouth\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280142", "title": "Lake Beshear", "text": "Lake Beshear\n\nLake Beshear is a reservoir located in Caldwell and Christian counties in Kentucky. Impounded in 1962, the lake lies within the Pennyrile Forest State Resort Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280152", "title": "Oskar von Redwitz", "text": "Oskar von Redwitz\n\nOskar Freiherr von Redwitz (28 June 1823 – 6 July 1891) was a German poet from Lichtenau, Bavaria. Having studied at the universities of Munich and Erlangen, he was apprenticed to the law in the Bavarian State service (1846–49).\n\nHe next (1849–50) studied languages and literature at Bonn, and in 1851 was appointed professor of aesthetics and of the history of literature at Vienna. In 1852, however, he gave up this post and retired to his estate of Schellenberg, near Kaiserslautern.\n\nThe pious sentimentality of his romantic epic \"Amaranth\" (1849; 42nd ed., 1898) had already gained him enthusiastic admirers, and this work was followed, in 1850, by \"Märchen\" and by \"Gedichte\" (1852) and the tragedy \"Sieglinde\" (1854). He next settled on his estates near Kronach, and here wrote the tragedy \"Thomas Morus\" (1856), the historical dramas \"Philippine Welser\" (1859) and \"Der Zunftmeister von Nürnberg\" (1860), of which the first two met with great success.\n\nElected member of the Bavarian Second Chamber for the district in which he lived, he removed to Munich in 1862. In 1868 he published the novel \"Hermann Stark, deutsches Leben\", and in 1871 \"Das Lied vom neuen deutschen Reich\" (\"Song of the New German Reich\", which contains several hundred patriotic sonnets). In 1872 he took up his residence at Meran, but passed the last years of his life at a sanatorium for nervous disorders near Bayreuth, where he died on 6 July 1891.\n"}
{"id": "2280157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280157", "title": "Andreas Floer", "text": "Andreas Floer\n\nAndreas Floer (; 23 August 1956 – 15 May 1991) was a German mathematician who made seminal contributions to the areas of geometry, topology, and mathematical physics, in particular the invention of Floer homology.\n\nHe was an undergraduate student at the Ruhr-Universität Bochum and received a Diplom in mathematics in 1982. He then went to the University of California, Berkeley and undertook PhD work on monopoles on 3-manifolds, under the supervision of Clifford Taubes; but he did not complete it when interrupted by his obligatory alternative service in Germany. He received his PhD (Dr. phil.) at Bochum in 1984, under the supervision of Eduard Zehnder.\n\nFloer's first pivotal contribution was a solution of a special case of Arnold's conjecture on fixed points of a symplectomorphism. Because of his work on Arnold's conjecture and his development of instanton homology, he achieved wide recognition and was invited as a plenary speaker for the International Congress of Mathematicians held in Kyoto in August 1990. He received a Sloan Fellowship in 1989.\n\nIn 1988 he became an Assistant Professor at the University of California, Berkeley and was promoted to Full Professor of Mathematics in 1990. From 1990 he was Professor of Mathematics at the Ruhr-Universität Bochum, until his suicide in 1991.\n\n\"Andreas Floer's life was tragically interrupted, but his mathematical visions and striking contributions have provided powerful methods which are being applied to problems which seemed to be intractable only a few years ago.\"\n\nSimon Donaldson wrote: \"The concept of Floer homology is one of the most striking developments in differential geometry over the past 20 years. ... The ideas have led to great advances in the areas of low-dimensional topology and symplectic geometry and are intimately related to developments in Quantum Field Theory\" and \"the full richness of Floer's theory is only beginning to be explored\".\n\n\"Since its introduction by Andreas Floer in the late nineteen eighties, Floer theory has had a tremendous influence on many branches of mathematics including geometry, topology and dynamical systems. The development of new Floer theoretic tools continues at a remarkable pace and underlies many of the recent breakthroughs in these diverse fields.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280159", "title": "1982 in baseball", "text": "1982 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280162", "title": "List of pornographic magazines", "text": "List of pornographic magazines\n\nThis is a list of pornographic magazines (or erotic magazine, adult magazine) — magazines that contain content of a sexual nature and are typically considered to be pornography.\n\nFor inclusion in this list, pornographic magazines must be, or have been, widely available as a printed publication and contain hardcore or softcore images.\n\nThese magazines may include female-male, female-female-male and/or female-female content.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGay pornographic magazines, sometimes known as adult magazines or gay sex magazines, contain content of a sexual nature, typically regarded as pornography, that relates to men having sex with men.\n\nThese magazines are targeted to gay and bisexual men, although they may also have some female readers, and may include male-male and occasionally male-male-female content and/or male-female content. Such publications provide photographs or other illustrations of nudity and sexual activities, including oral sex, anal sex, and other various forms of such activities. These magazines primarily serve to stimulate sexual thoughts and emotions. Some magazines are very general in their variety of illustrations, while others may be more specific and focus on particular activities or fetishes.\n\nPrior to the 1970s, gay pornography was not widely distributed due to censorship laws. Non-pornographic \"beefcake magazines\" were widely available, and were generally purchased by gay men. From the late 1980s, a number of gay magazines and newspapers featured homoerotic nude or partially clothed male models but were not classified as pornography, for example \"Gay Times\" and \"QX Magazine\". These have not been included here. \"See List of LGBT periodicals.\"\n\nThe following is a list of gay pornographic magazines, with country of publication and approximate period of publication, where available:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280165", "title": "Steven Grant", "text": "Steven Grant\n\nSteven Grant (born October 22, 1953) is an American comic book writer best known for his 1985–1986 Marvel Comics mini-series \"The Punisher\" with artist Mike Zeck and for his creator-owned character Whisper.\n\nGrant has a long history scripting for both major publishers such as Marvel Comics and DC Comics, as well as smaller companies such as First Comics and Dark Horse Comics.\n\nBeginning in the early 1980s, Grant wrote a number of works for Marvel. In addition to bringing the Punisher back into the forefront of the Marvel Universe after a several-year lull, Grant has written \"The Avengers\", \"The Incredible Hulk\", and fill-in runs on comics such as \"What If?\", \"The Spectacular Spider-Man\", and \"Marvel Team-Up\".\n\nGrant wrote a conclusion to Steve Gerber's \"Omega the Unknown\" series in two issues of \"The Defenders\" at the end of which most of the original series' characters were killed. While Gerber seemed unhappy with Grant's conclusion, it nevertheless tied up the loose ends of the comic series. In 1982, Grant, Mark Gruenwald, and Bill Mantlo co-wrote \"Marvel Super Hero Contest of Champions\", the first limited series published by Marvel Comics. Grant and artist Mike Zeck produced a \"Punisher\" limited series in 1986 and an original hardcover graphic novel of the character three years later.\n\nGrant's creator-owned character, the female ninja Whisper, debuted at Capital Comics in 1983, though the company's publishing arm folded after only two issues and a promotional poster of the series were published. Several months after First Comics picked up two other Capital publications (\"Nexus\" and \"the Badger\"), they published a one-shot entitled \"Whisper Special\" which led to Whisper being featured in the anthology series \"First Adventures\" and eventually to her own ongoing series in June 1986. During this time, Grant wrote \"American Flagg!\", he was personally selected by Howard Chaykin to take over scripting the title after Chaykin's departure, a fill-in run on \"Shatter\", a short-lived comic book of his own creation called \"Psychoblast\" and a few issues of \"Classics Illustrated\" at First.\n\nAt Dark Horse Comics, Grant wrote several limited and ongoing series in the short-lived Dark Horse shared superhero continuity, including the entire two-year run of the series \"X\". His creation Enemy, published by Dark Horse, was optioned and produced as a Fox pilot, but ultimately did not air. He wrote numerous stories for DC Comics in the 1990s and created new versions of Manhunter and the Challengers of the Unknown. He continued to periodically write for Marvel Comics, his last major contribution being \"X-Man\" in collaboration with Warren Ellis and Ariel Olivetti. Among his other creator-owned works of the 1990s were the superhero comic \"Edge\", with Gil Kane, published by Malibu Comics/Bravura, and the crime series \"Damned\" with Mike Zeck, published by WildStorm.\n\nHis two long-running columns exposing the inner workings of the comics industry, \"Master of the Obvious\" and \"Permanent Damage\", ran from 1999–2010 at the Comic Book Resources website.\n\nSince 2005, Grant has written several works for IDW Publishing including original comics featuring the characters from the television show \"CSI\". He wrote a one-shot featuring an updated version of his character Whisper and created a crime series, \"2 Guns\", about undercover cops, for Boom! Studios. At Avatar Press, he produced two creator-owned mini-series, \"Mortal Souls\" and \"My Flesh Is Cool\", as well as adapted Frank Miller's original \"Robocop\" screenplays to comics format, which deviated considerably from the filmed versions.\n\nIn addition to comic book work, Grant has written a number of \"Hardy Boys\" novels for young adults under the pen-name Franklin W. Dixon, as well as \"Tom Swift\", \"Race Against Time\", and various \"choose-your-own-adventure\" type books, a posthumous collaboration with science fiction writer Isaac Asimov.\n\nGrant's \"2 Guns\" has been made into a major motion picture from Universal Studios starring Denzel Washington, Mark Wahlberg, Bill Paxton and Paula Patton.\n\nGrant is working on the sequel to \"2 Guns\" as well as an updating of Gil Kane's classic spy thriller \"His Name Is... Savage\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280168", "title": "The Kabul Times", "text": "The Kabul Times\n\nThe Kabul Times is a state-run English language newspaper in Afghanistan, initially established on February 27, 1962. As of 2018 it has a daily circulation of 47,000 and is offered in both print and online formats. The newspaper is generally viewed as having a Pro-government political viewpoint.\n\nFollowing the 1978 coup, the Kabul Times was renamed \"Kabul New Times\", and began to print Communist rhetoric that was reminiscent of days during the Cold War and was highly confrontational towards Western culture.\n\nThe paper resumed publication in March 2002 after the Taliban's fall.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280174", "title": "The Seven Valleys", "text": "The Seven Valleys\n\nThe Seven Valleys ( \"Haft-Vádí\") is a book written in Persian by Baháʼu'lláh, the founder of the Baháʼí Faith. \"The Seven Valleys\" follows the structure of the Persian poem \"The Conference of the Birds\".\n\nThe Four Valleys ( \"Chahár Vádí\") was also written by Baháʼu'lláh and the two books are usually published together under the title \"The Seven Valleys and the Four Valleys\". The two books are distinctly different and have no direct relation.\n\nIn February 2019 an authorized translation of both titles was published by the Baháʼí World Centre in the collection \"The Call of the Divine Beloved\".\n\"The Seven Valleys\" was written around 1860 in Baghdad after Baháʼu'lláh had returned from the Sulaymaniyah region in Iraqi Kurdistan where he spent two years anonymously with various Sufi sheikhs using the pseudonym \"Darvish Muhammad-i-Irani\". The work was written in response to questions posed by Shaykh Muhyi'd-Din, a judge, who was a follower of the Qádiríyyih Order of Sufism. About the time of writing to Baháʼu'lláh, he quit his job, and spent the rest of his life wandering around Iraqi Kurdistan.\n\nThis work has been called by Shoghi Effendi Baháʼu'lláh's \"greatest mystical composition\", and in the West was one of the earliest available books of Baháʼu'lláh, first translated directly to French in 1905, and English in 1906.\n\nʻAbdu'l-Bahá explained in one of his talks that \"The Seven Valleys\" is a guide for human conduct, that one should search out one's \"own imperfections and not think of the imperfections of anybody else\", to \"strive to be free from imperfections\" and that \"nothing is more fruitful for man than the knowledge of his own shortcomings\".\n\nThe style of \"The Seven Valleys\" is highly poetic, though not composed in verse. Nearly every line of the text contains rhymes and plays on words, which can be lost in translation. As the recipient was of Sufi origin, Baháʼu'lláh used historical and religious subtleties which sometimes used only one or a few words to refer to Qurʼanic verses, traditions, and well-known poems. In English, frequent footnotes are used to convey certain background information.\n\nThe book follows the path of the soul on a spiritual journey passing through different stages, from this world to other realms which are closer to God, as first described by the 12th Century Sufi poet Farid al-Din Attar in his \"Conference of the Birds\". Baháʼu'lláh in the work explains the meanings and the significance of the seven stages. In the introduction, Baháʼu'lláh says \"Some have called these Seven Valleys, and others, Seven Cities.\" The stages are accomplished in order, and the goal of the journey is to follow \"the Right Path\", \"abandon the drop of life and come to the sea of the Life-Bestower\", and \"gaze on the Beloved\". In the conclusion of the book, he mentions:\n\nThe valley of search is described as the first step that a seeker must take in his path. Baháʼu'lláh states that the seeker must cleanse his heart, and not follow the paths of his forefathers. It is explained that ardour and patience are required to traverse this valley.\n\nThe next valley is the \"Valley of Love\". Baháʼu'lláh describes how love burns away reason, causing pain, madness and single minded endeavour. He writes that the fire of love burns away the material self, revealing instead the world of the spirit.\n\nThe knowledge referred to in this valley is the knowledge of God, and not one based on learning; it is explained that pride in one's knowledge and accomplishments often disallows one to reach true understanding, which is the knowledge of God. It is explained that the seeker, when in this valley, begins to understand the mysteries contained within God's revelation, and finds wisdom in all things including when faced with pain and hardship, which he understands to be God's mercy and blessing. This valley is called the last limited valley.\n\nThe next stage is the valley of unity, and it is explained that the seeker now sees creation not by its limitations, but sees the attributes of God in all created things. The seeker, it is written, is detached from earthly things, is not concerned with his own self and has no ego; instead he praises God for all of creation.\n\nThe next valley for the seeker is the valley of contentment, where it is explained that the seeker becomes independent from all things, and even though he may look poor or is subjected to suffering, he will be endowed with wealth and power from the spiritual worlds and will inwardly be happy. Happiness is explained to be the attribute of the true believer, and it cannot be achieved by obtaining material things, since material things are transitory.\n\nIn the valley of wonderment the seeker, it is written, is struck dumb (mute) by the beauty of God; the seeker becomes conscious of the vastness and glory of creation, and discovers the inner mysteries of God's revelation. Being led from one mystery of creation to the next, it is explained that the seeker continues to be astonished by the works of God.\n\nThe final valley is the valley of true poverty and absolute nothingness, and it is the furthermost state that the mystic can reach. The seeker is poor of all material things, and is rich in spiritual attributes. It is explained that it is the state of annihilation of self in God, but not an existential union: the essences of God's self and the mystic's self remain distinct, in contrast to what appears to be a complete union in other traditions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280199", "title": "1983 in baseball", "text": "1983 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280201", "title": "August Emanuel von Reuss", "text": "August Emanuel von Reuss\n\nAugust Emanuel Rudolph von Reuss (8 July 1811 in Bílina, Bohemia26 November 1873 in Vienna), Austrian geologist and palaeontologist, was the son of Franz Ambrosius Reuss (1761–1830) and the father of ophthalmologist August Leopold von Reuss (1841–1924). He was educated for the medical profession, graduating in 1834 at the University of Prague, and afterwards practising for fifteen years at the Bílinská Kyselka (Biliner Sauerbrunn) spa.\n\nHis leisure was devoted to mineralogy and geology, and the results of his researches were published in ' (1840–1844) and ' (1845–1846). In 1849 he gave up his medical practice, and became professor of mineralogy at the university of Prague. There he established a fine mineralogical collection, and he became the first lecturer on geology.\n\nIn 1863 he was appointed professor of mineralogy in the University of Vienna. He investigated the Cretaceous fauna of Gosau, and studied the Crustacea, including Entomostraca, the corals, bryozoa, and especially the Foraminifera of various geological formations and countries. He died at Vienna on 26 November 1873.\n"}
{"id": "2280213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280213", "title": "Dance Theatre of Harlem", "text": "Dance Theatre of Harlem\n\nDance Theatre of Harlem (DTH) is an American professional ballet company and school based in Harlem, New York City. It was founded in 1969 under the co-directorship of Arthur Mitchell and Karel Shook. Milton Rosenstock served as the company's music director from 1981 to 1992. The DTH is renowned for being both \"the first Black classical ballet company\", and \"the first major ballet company to prioritize Black dancers\".\n\nArthur Mitchell, the first African-American principal dancer in a major ballet company (New York City Ballet), was sent to Brazil by the United States government to start up the National Ballet of Brazil. While on his way to the airport, he was shocked to hear news of the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr. \nIn conjunction with the civil rights movement, Dr. King's death inspired Mitchell to forgo his plans in Brazil. Instead, he would found a classical ballet school for the children of Harlem, the poor and predominantly black New York neighborhood where he was raised. Luckily, Karel Shook, the first ballet teacher and a former ballet master at Dutch National Ballet, agreed to join him in founding the school. At the time, Shook was the best and only teacher of European descent willing to train African Americans in classical technique.\n\nIn the beginning, space at Church of the Master was used to hold classes. Soon afterwards, Mitchell would make a down payment on a disused garage at 466 West 152nd Street and convert it into the headquarters that still house the company today. Initially founded only as a school, Dance Theatre of Harlem as a company of African American ballet dancers was born out a necessity to match funds that had been contributed towards the school's existence. The only way to accomplish this was by earning revenue through performances. Following the original blueprints set forth by his mentor George Balanchine, Mitchell groomed the school's top talent as a group of performers. Though officially incorporated in 1969, Dance Theatre of Harlem would make its official debut with a public performance on January 8, 1971 at New York Guggenheim Museum, with three chamber ballets choreographed by Mitchell. During that opening season, the company's repertory was supplemented with several ballets by Balanchine and Jerome Robbins; in support of Mitchell's vision and company's future, Balanchine had given Mitchell access to all of his ballets.\n\nDTH would make its European debut at the Spoleto Festival in 1971. The company produced its first full season in 1974. That same year, the company debuted at Sadler's Wells Theatre. In 1984, Dance Theatre of Harlem premiered its most famous work, \"Creole Giselle\" (restaged by Frederic Franklin), which was set in the 1840s Louisiana Bayou. In 1988 DTH embarked on a five-week tour of the USSR, playing sold-out performances in Moscow, Tbilisi, and Leningrad, where the company received a standing ovation at the famed Kirov Theatre. In 1992, the company toured to South Africa in the \"Dancing Through Barriers\" tour that gave birth to the outreach program of the same name that still continues to operate. \"South African Suite\", a collaboration with the Soweto String Quartet, was created after the company's visit to South Africa and became a staple in the repertoire of the company for years to come.\n\nIn 1997 the company's dancers went on strike to demand better wages and performing conditions. After much deliberation, the company unionized and joined the American Guild of Musical Artists (AGMA). During the company's 30th anniversary season, Dance Theatre of Harlem and Mitchell were inducted into the National Museum of Dance and the Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney Hall of Fame in Saratoga Springs, New York.\n\nIn 2000 The Dance Theater of Harlem participated in Symphony Space's \"Wall to Wall Balanchine\" concert in conjunction with City Ballet's Balanchine centennial.\nIn mid-2004 the Dance Theatre of Harlem Company was put on hiatus due to severe financial constraints within the organization. In 2006 President George W. Bush honored Dance Theatre of Harlem at the White House for an evening of performances given by the DTH Ensemble and former company members. \nIn February 2009 Dance Theatre of Harlem celebrated its 40th anniversary. From 2009 to 2012, The Dance Theatre of Harlem Ensemble, a second company that developed from the professional training program of the DTH school, toured nationally and internationally, under the auspices of Dance For America.\n\nIn 2011, Virginia Johnson, a founding dancer and former prima ballerina of the company, was named Artistic Director with Arthur Mitchell becoming Artistic Director Emeritus. In 2012, following an eight-year hiatus, Johnson returned Dance Theatre of Harlem to full company status. Since the return of the Dance Theatre of Harlem as a full company, Johnson has commissioned world premieres from Helen Pickett, John Alleyne, Tanya Wideman-Davis and Thaddeus Davis, Darrell Grand Moultrie, and Robert Garland. The new Dance Theatre of Harlem company has also presented ballets by George Balanchine, Nacho Duato, Donald Byrd, Ulysses Dove, Christopher Huggins and Alvin Ailey, among others. The company has held its subsequent seasons at The Rose Theater at Jazz at Lincoln Center and at New York City Center.\n\nDTH's archives, created and processed with assistance from the Dance Heritage Coalition, hold many important documents from the company's history. These include photographs of the visit of Nelson Mandela to the DTH, a handwritten score by Karel Shook, and designs by Salvatore Ferragamo. In 2013, the DTH archives received a Sustaining Cultural Heritage Collections grant from the National Endowment for the Humanities to support the improvement of sustainable preservation measures for the DTH archival collection.\n\n\nThe Dance Theatre of Harlem School offers training to more than 1,000 young people annually with its community program called Dancing Through Barriers, open to any child who wants to study dance. The company's Dancing Through Barriers Ensemble does outreach throughout the US. It accepts pre-school children up to senior citizens. The school offers specializations in children's movement, European ballet, choreography, and musicology.\n\nDance Theatre of Harlem now has a Pre-Professional Residency program at the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C., for dancers aged from eight to 18. If accepted, the students meet every Saturday, October through April, and work with DTH resident choreographer Robert Garland. The program includes four levels from beginner to advanced for both ladies and gentlemen of the DC metro area. In April, the program culminates with a performance on the Kennedy Center's Concert Hall stage as a part of the Millennium Stage series.\n\nThough the company ceased performing in 2004 due to budgetary constraints, during that hiatus the Dancing Though Barriers Ensemble continued its community outreach as the only performing entity of the organization. From 2012 to 2017 Roberto Villanueva served as the director of Dancing Through the Barriers, greatly expanding the program's presence throughout New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280222", "title": "Suleiman Khan", "text": "Suleiman Khan\n\nSuleiman Khan () was a Chobanid puppet for the throne of the Ilkhanate during the breakdown of central authority in Persia. \n\nHis birth name was Ilyas and descended from the great-grandson of the Ilkhan Hülegü's third son Yoshmut. Like Jalayirid puppet Jahan Temür, his ancestors were fallen out of favor in Ilkhanate. Yoshmut lost a qurultai to Abaqa in 1265 and died on 18 Jul 1271. Yoshmut's son and Ilyas' grandfather Sogai were executed for treason against Arghun in 1289.\n\nIlyas was raised to the throne around May 1339 by the Chobanid Hasan Kucek and was given title Suleiman Khan. He then married Sati Beg, who had previously been Hasan Kucek's puppet Ilkhan despite being very younger than her. Suleiman was present at the battle on the Jaghatu against the Jalayirids under Hasan Buzurg in June 1340; the Chobanids emerged victorious. Around 1341 the Sarbadars, in an attempt to foster an alliance with the Chobanids, accepted Hasan Kucek as their suzerain, and also recognized Suleiman as Ilkhan. He lost a battle against Eretna near Sivas later.\n\nIn 1343 Hasan Kucek was murdered and a rivalry broke out for the succession between Sati Beg's son Surgan, Yagi Basti and Malek Asraf. When Malek Asraf defeated Surgan and accused Suleiman of murdering Hasan. Suleiman amassed a part of Hasan Kucek's treasury as well, which led to Surgan, Sati Beg and Suleiman concluding an alliance. Suleiman appealed to Hasan Buzurg to intervene, who escorted him to Tabriz. Malek Ashraf raised another puppet named Anushirwan as new Ilkhan and rode to Tabriz. Hasan Buzurg meanwhile withdrew his support from Suleiman. They fled to Diyarbakr, where Hajji Taghay's nephew Ibrahimshah; where his coins representing Suleiman were struck until 1345.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280223", "title": "Ludwig Richter", "text": "Ludwig Richter\n\nAdrian Ludwig Richter (September 28, 1803June 19, 1884), a 19th-century German painter and etcher, who was strongly influenced by Erhard and Chodowiecki.\n\nHe was the most popular, and in many ways the most typical German illustrator of the middle of the 19th century. His work is as typically German and homely as are the fairy-tales of Grimm, for whom he produced several woodcuts. \n\nHe was born in Dresden, the son of the engraver Karl August Richter, from whom he received his training.\nThe interest of his uneventful life centres within the circle of his art. As a painter Richter aimed at a thorough blending of the figure element with the landscape and may be judged by the following examples: \"Harvest Procession in the Campagna\" (1833) and three others in the Leipzig Museum: \"Ferry at the Schreckenstein\" (1836) and \"Bridal Procession in Springtime\" (1847), in the Dresden Gallery; \"View of the Riesengebirge\" (1839), in the National Gallery, Berlin. One of his most notable protégés was Hermann Lungkwitz.\n\nRichter visited Italy from 1823–1826, and his \"Thunderstorm in the Sabine Mountains\" at the Staedel Museum in Frankfurt is one of the rare Italian subjects from his brush. \n\nFrom 1828 he worked as designer for the Meissen factory, living in a house on Schlossbrucke, close to the castle and cathedral, from 1828 to 1836.\n\nIn 1841 he became professor and head of the landscape \"atelier\" at the Dresden Academy, (now Hochschule für Bildende Künste Dresden). The Dresden Gallery owns one of his best and most characteristic paintings: \"Bridal Procession in a Spring Landscape\". An eye disease put a stop to the practice of his art in 1874; he was pensioned in 1877, and died at Loschwitz, near Dresden.\n\nAmong his 240 etchings are about 140 views in Saxony, others of Salzburg, Rome, and the Campagna. His individuality is most completely revealed in his 3000 or more drawings. Of special charm are his illustrations for \"The Vicar of Wakefield\" (1841), for Musäus' \"Volksmärchen\" (1842) and for numerous other fairy tales, for the \"Goethe Album\" (1855), for Schiller's \"Glocke\" (1857), and those cyclical publications which reveal the most brilliant side of the artist's inexhaustible fancy, such as \"Beschauliches und Erbauliches\" (1851); \"Kinderleben\" (1852); \"Fürs Haus\" (1858–1861); \"Der gute Hirt\" (1860); \"Unser täglich Brot\" (1866); \"Bilder und Vignetten\" (1874).\n\n"}
{"id": "2280230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280230", "title": "Modern juggling culture", "text": "Modern juggling culture\n\nSince the late 1980s, a large juggling culture has developed, revolving around local clubs and organizations, special events, shows, magazines, video sharing websites, Internet forums, juggling competitions and juggling conventions. Populating the scene are many juggling celebrities who are notable for being good or creative jugglers, entertaining performers, convention organizers, experts in their field, having a strong presence online or just for having an interesting personality, character or style.\n\nIt has developed into a fully formed subculture, with tens of thousands of followers.\n\nMost cities and large towns have juggling clubs, where anyone is welcome to learn and share skills. Many universities and colleges have juggling or circus skills societies. There are also many community circus groups that usually aim to teach young people and put on shows.\n\nThe first organization to promote juggling and help jugglers was the International Jugglers' Association (IJA), based almost entirely in North America. The World Juggling Federation (WJF) promotes more technical juggling, in contrast to the \"performing\" emphasis of the IJA. The European Juggling Association facilitates the annual European Juggling Convention and promotes juggling in Europe. Various countries have national associations, including Italy, Israel, Spain, and Switzerland. There is also the Christian Jugglers Association.\n\n\"Kaskade\" was a European juggling magazine, published in both English and German. It was discontinued in 2013 and all its issues were made available online. \"Juggle\" is the official publication of the IJA and focuses on the North American scene. \"Juggling Magazine\" is published in Italy and \"Newton Las Pelotas\" is published in Argentina and Spain for the Latin American readership.\n\nWorld Juggling Day is the Saturday nearest 17 June (the day the IJA was founded in 1947). There are events organized worldwide to teach people how to juggle, to promote juggling, or for jugglers to get together and celebrate.\n\nMany countries, cities, or juggling clubs hold an annual juggling convention. These are the backbone of the juggling scene, because the events regularly bring jugglers from a wide area together. The attendance of a convention can be anything from a few dozen to a few thousand people. The principal focus of most juggling conventions is the main hall, where anybody can juggle, share tricks or try out multi-person passing patterns. There will often be more formal workshops, in which experts work with small groups on skills and techniques. Most juggling conventions also include a big show (open to the general public), competitions, and juggling games. Many juggling conventions host some kind of renegade show, an open stage where anyone can perform at short notice. The Juggling Edge maintains a searchable database of past and upcoming conventions.\n\nModern juggling has moved away from the more dangerous objects, including the chainsaw and machete. However, juggling with flaming torches remains a crowd favourite and is regularly used by jugglers in the modern day. While beginners mainly use balls, both clubs and rings also remain staples of juggling. The objects available to any juggler are only limited by weight, imagination, and pain tolerance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280231", "title": "Ilguilas Weila", "text": "Ilguilas Weila\n\nIlguilas Weila is an anti-slavery human rights activist in Niger. He is president of the anti-slavery organization Timidria.\n\nIlguilas Weila and five other people were arrested on 28 April 2005 accused of trying to falsely elicit money, two billion CFA francs, from foreign donors. Four were released shortly afterwards but Weila and Alassane Biga were freed on bail by a Niger court on 17 June. He denies any wrongdoing. A demonstration was held on 19 May through the capital Niamey in protest at his arrest.\n\nThe charges came after a ceremony, in March, to release 7,000 slaves in the northern part of Tillabéri Region was cancelled at the last minute by the government who maintains slavery does not exist. At least 43,000 people are thought to live in subjugation across Niger, which officially banned slavery in May 2004. The matter is liable to embarrass the Nigerien president Tandja Mamadou who currently heads the Economic Community of West African States.\n\nMuch of Weila's work is devoted to informing people of their rights under the new law which are unknown in much of Niger owing to poverty, low literacy and the inaccessibility of many areas. Timidria gives literacy classes to freed slaves and also money so they can start a new life. It is these funds, provided partly by London-based Anti-Slavery International, that Weila is alleged to have stolen. Anti-Slavery International has written an open letter denying these claims. The organization has attempted to highlight Ilguilas Weila's work outside of Niger and he received their Anti-Slavery Award in November 2004.\n\nWeila has criticised the ingrained nature of slavery in the region and questioned the role of religion \"Islam assisted in the indoctrination of slaves through the use of religion, by saying for example if you disobey your master, you will not access paradise, hence your paradise is in the hands of your master,\" though Islam says no muslim can be a slave.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280241", "title": "Jahan Temür", "text": "Jahan Temür\n\nJahan Temür was a Jalayirid puppet for the throne of the Ilkhanate in the late 1330s.\n\nHe was son of Alafrang and the grandson of Gaykhatu and Jalayirid Dondi Khatun. His family was fallen out favor after Ghazan's ascension to the throne. His brother-in-law Eljigitei was executed by Ghazan in 1295, father Alafrang was murdered on 30 May 1304 during reign of Öljaitü. He must have been an elderly person when Jalayirid Hasan Buzurg raised him to the throne in 1339 near Hamadan.His rule were acknowledged from Basra to Samsun.\n\nHasan Buzurg and his Jahan Temür khan met the Chobanids under Hasan Kucek in battle on 21 June 1340 near the Jaghatu plains; the Jalayirids were defeated. Following this, Hasan Buzurg returned to Baghdad and deposed Jahan Temür. While Hasan Buzurg would recognize Togha Temur as his suzerain again for a time, Jahan Temür was his last puppet Ilkhan, and the Jalayirid (Ilkan) dynasty of Baghdad came to rule in its own right. The fate of Jahan Temür himself is not recorded.\n"}
{"id": "2280242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280242", "title": "1900 in archaeology", "text": "1900 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280251", "title": "1984 in baseball", "text": "1984 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280254", "title": "Pierre François Marie Auguste Dejean", "text": "Pierre François Marie Auguste Dejean\n\nPierre François Marie Auguste Dejean (10 August 1780 – 17 March 1845), was a French entomologist. A soldier of fortune during the Napoleonic Wars, he rose to the rank of lieutenant general and \"aide de campe\" to Napoleon. He amassed vast collections of Coleoptera, some even collected on the battlefield at Waterloo. He listed 22,399 species in his cabinets in 1837—at the time, the greatest collection of Coleoptera in the world. In 1802, he began publishing a catalogue of his vast collection, including 22,000 species names. Dejean was an opponent of the Principle of Priority in nomenclature. \"\"I have made it a rule always to preserve the name most generally used , and not the oldest one; because it seems to me that general usage should always be followed and that it is harmful to change what has already been established\"\". Dejean acted accordingly and often introduced \"in litteris\" names, given by himself to replace those already published by other authors. They became invalid. Dejean was president of the Société entomologique de France for the year 1840. In 1834, he was elected a foreign member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences. He died on 17 March 1845.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280256", "title": "Downpicking", "text": "Downpicking\n\nDownpicking, sometimes referred to as down-stroke picking, is a technique used by musicians on plucked string instruments in which the player moves the plectrum, or pick in a downward motion, relative to the position of the instrument, against one or more of the strings to make them vibrate. If down-strokes are played without the addition of upstrokes (as in alternate picking), the tip of the pick never comes in contact with the strings as the hand moves back up to repeat the down-stroke.\n\nGuitarists in hard rock genres will often use downpicking to create a \"heavier\" sound than what can be achieved with alternate picking, which generally produces more cleanly melded strumming sounds. Downpicking also effectively doubles the effort one would need to alternate pick at the same tempo, however this is hardly noticeable at medium to slow tempos. Downpicking can also be used in a technique called sweep picking, or 'raking'.\n\nExtremely fast eighth-note downstroke picking was used in the mid 70's and beyond by famous punk guitarist Johnny Ramone, who used the technique to play full live shows at fast tempos (usually around 180 to 200 bpm). This required extreme levels of stamina, but produced a very high-energy, aggressive sound. This extremely demanding, then-uncommon and somewhat innovative style contributed to Johnny Ramone's reputation as a legendary guitar player, and it influenced many now-famous rock guitarists. Downstroke picking has become a common technique in metal and thrash rhythm playing, notably exemplified by Metallica's James Hetfield (who has been regarded as 'the God of Downpicking' ), Misfits' Doyle Wolfgang von Frankenstein, Megadeth's Dave Mustaine, Ramones' Johnny Ramone, Slayer's Kerry King, Overkill's Bobby Gustafson, and Anthrax's Scott Ian among others. The guitar work of Metallica's \"Master of Puppets\" is almost entirely played using downstroked eighth-notes at a tempo of 212 BPM (about 7 downstrokes per second).\n\nUp-tempo down-stroke picking requires a strong wrist to keep muscle movements as tension-free as possible. For long or extended passages, endurance becomes the focus, as fast down-picking can quickly cause a burn in the wrist, sometimes extending up into the arm and causing the muscles to seize up. If the guitarist has a difficult time keeping the strokes smooth, the quality of the music can suffer, often sounding sloppy or strained. While down-picking in general is sometimes considered a good beginner's technique for learning at slow tempos, it requires skill to perfect in faster applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280259", "title": "Cairde na hÉireann", "text": "Cairde na hÉireann\n\nCairde na hÉireann (Irish: \"Friends of Ireland\") is a republican organisation in Scotland best known for the annual James Connolly march through the streets of Edinburgh and for the Bloody Sunday march each January in Glasgow, both of which Cairde decided to drop. Since then the organisation has focused more in its anti-racism campaign and its other stated aims.\n\nMembership of Cairde na hÉireann is open to anyone regardless of faith, race, sex, sexuality, or nationality.\nThe stated aims of Cairde na hÉireann are to:\n\nThe group in a submission to the Scottish Executive estimated in 2005 that it represents around 2,000 people, including 300 from the James Connolly society and a number of flute bands with between 55 and 70 members each. 3,000 people had attended their recent marches in Coatbridge.\n\nCairde na hÉireann was formed as a split from the West of Scotland Band Alliance (WoSBA) in 2004. The WoSBA are considered supporters of dissident Republicans and are not recognised by Sinn Féin.\n\nIn their first official statement to \"An Phoblacht\" (\"Republican News\", Sinn Féin's official monthly newspaper), Cairde na hÉireann said that their main aim is to concentrate on building a political base that would prove itself in the Scottish Parliament . They are organised throughout Scotland and northern England. They have demonstrations and marches all over Scotland and use these events as a platform to spread their pro-Irish nationalist message.\n\nThe organisation has been involved in discussions with the Scottish Executive over proposals to restrict and regulate marches in Scotland. The group's national organiser at the time, Jim Slavin, said: \"I think vetoes and banning marches is not the solution, I think dialogue is a solution and coming to an understanding\".\n\nA Cairde na hÉireann march in Glasgow on 21 January 2006 attracted police criticism. The parade was delayed for 30 minutes \"as, contrary to permission conditions, there were groups dressed in paramilitary-style clothing\". In addition, concerning protests during the parade, Strathclyde Police stated: \"Many of those taking part in the procession clearly antagonised the protesters\".\n\nIn October 2006, a Cairde na hÉireann march was banned from going through Ayr by South Ayrshire Council after police complaints. It was reported the march was banned after the previous year’s procession when marchers produced banners declaring \"Justice for Peter McBride\", in reference to a man killed in Northern Ireland by Ayr soldier James Fisher. They also distributed posters informing the people of Ayr they should be ashamed to have a murderer living among them. South Scotland MSP Phil Gallie, the region which Ayr is part of, who opposed the march, said: \"I feel that justice has been done here because this group basically lied to the police last year and therefore cannot be trusted. We simply can’t have people slating our own servicemen and women on their own doorstep.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2280263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280263", "title": "American Battlefield Trust", "text": "American Battlefield Trust\n\nThe American Battlefield Trust is a charitable organization (501(c)(3)) whose primary focus is in the preservation of battlefields of the American Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 through acquisition of battlefield land. The American Battlefield Trust was formerly known as the Civil War Trust. On May 8, 2018, the organization announced the creation of the American Battlefield Trust as the umbrella organization for two divisions, the Civil War Trust and the Revolutionary War Trust, which was formerly known as \"Campaign 1776.\" The name American Battlefield Trust reflects the organization's expanded mission, announced in 2014, of saving land at battlefields of the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 as well as the American Civil War The American Battlefield Trust also promotes educational programs and heritage tourism initiatives to inform the public about these three conflicts and their significance in American history. On May 31, 2018, the Trust announced that with the acquisition of 13 acres at the Cedar Creek battlefield in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia, it had reached the milestone of 50,000 acres of battlefield land acquired and preserved. Since 1988, the Trust and its federal, state and local partners have preserved land in 24 states at more than 130 battlefields of the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. More than 10,000 of the acres have been acquired and preserved since 2014.\n\nThe modern battlefield preservation movement was first undertaken by the Association for the Preservation of Civil War Sites (APCWS), which was founded in 1987 to save Civil War battlefield land. APCWS acquired thousands of acres of battlefield land as well as offering educational tours and seminars with prominent historians.\n\nThe original Civil War Trust, a second non-profit focused on preserving Civil War battlefields, was formed in 1991. The Civil War Trust helped acquire and preserve of land in the eight years of its existence and conducted education and heritage tourism programs to educate the public about the significance of the war and of battlefield preservation.\n\nThe Civil War Preservation Trust was created on November 19, 1999, through the merger of the Association for the Preservation of Civil War Sites (APCWS) with the Civil War Trust. The merger, which was propelled by a unanimous vote of both boards, was effected to streamline efforts to protect America's most endangered parcels of Civil War history by acquisition of battlefield lands. On January 11, 2011, the Civil War Preservation Trust shortened its name to the Civil War Trust, and added a new logo.\n\nOn November 11, 2014 (Veterans Day), the Trust partnered with the Society of the Cincinnati to launch \"Campaign 1776\", a subsidiary project designed to protect endangered battlefields from the American Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 by acquiring battlefield lands. Federal matching grants for this program were enacted by Congress in December 2014.\n\nThe president of the American Battlefield Trust is O. James Lighthizer, a former Maryland county executive and Secretary of Transportation who pioneered the concept of using Transportation Enhancement highway funds to protect thousands of acres of Civil War battlefield land in Maryland through acquisitions or easements.\n\nSince its formation, the Trust has grown to nearly 200,000 members and supporters and has permanently preserved more than of American battlefield land from the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812.\n\nThe American Battlefield Trust is a membership-driven organization that uses donated funds to protect battlefield land from the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812. Land is acquired by the American Battlefield Trust from private sector parties at fair market value or by donation. Once land is acquired, the Trust is responsible for land stewardship and interpretation, often with assistance from local governments and other preservation groups.\n\nIn cases where a landowner wants to retain ownership the Trust can arrange a conservation easement to protect their property. Conservation easements prohibit development of property, conserving it in its present state.\n\nIn its effort to protect American battlefields, the American Battlefield Trust attempts to leverage federal and state programs designed to foster preservation of historic and natural resources. The primary source of federal support for the preservation of Civil War battlefields is the Civil War Battlefield Preservation Program (CWBPP), administered by the American Battlefield Protection Program (ABPP), an office of the National Park Service. CWBPP is designed to promote the preservation of significant Civil War battlefields by offering competitive matching grants for qualifying preservation opportunities. Other federal sources include the Transportation Enhancement program and the Farm and Ranch Protection Program. The American Battlefield Trust has also leveraged funds made available by state and local governments.\n\nThe Civil War Trust has preserved more than of battlefield land from the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812 at more than 130 battlefields in 24 states within the United States.\n\nKey battlefield preservation initiatives and acquisitions include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of May 2018, the American Battlefield Trust has preserved over at more than 130 battlefields in 24 states at the following sites:\n\n\nTo further its aim of preserving American Civil War battlefields, the Trust has engaged in grassroots and community outreach efforts and had conducted campaigns against development projects that have threatened battlefields.\n\nThe Gettysburg Battlefield has faced two separate threats from proposed casinos.\n\nIn 2005 a proposal was put forward to build a casino with 3,000 slot machines less than a mile from the Gettysburg Battlefield. Soon after the proposal was announced, the Civil War Trust joined forces with a local concerned citizens group called No Casino Gettysburg to advocate against the proposal. Later, the Trust formed the Stop the Slots Coalition, a collection of national and local groups opposed to the casino.\n\nOn December 20, 2006, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board voted to reject the Gettysburg casino proposal.\n\nIn 2010, a new Gettysburg Casino application was filed and the Trust, with a broad coalition of partners, undertook a successful campaign to prevent approval of this new application. Nearly 300 prominent historians wrote to the Pennsylvania Gaming Board, urging the rejection of the application. Susan Eisenhower, Emmy award-winning filmmaker Ken Burns, two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning author David McCullough, Medal of Honor recipient Paul W. Bucha, composer John Williams, and actors Matthew Broderick, Stephen Lang (actor), and Sam Waterston were all featured in a Jeff Griffiths produced video declaring their opposition to the proposed Gettysburg casino.\n\nOn April 14, 2011, the Pennsylvania Gaming Control Board voted to reject this second proposal to bring casino gambling to the doorstep of Gettysburg National Military Park.\n\nIn May 2002, a regional developer announced a plan to build 2,300 houses and of commercial space on the Mullins Farm, site of the first day of fighting at the Battle of Chancellorsville. Soon thereafter, the Civil War Trust formed the Coalition to Save Chancellorsville, a network of national and local preservation groups, that waged a vocal campaign against the development.\n\nFor nearly a year, the Coalition mobilized local citizens, held candlelight vigils and hearings, and encouraged residents to become more involved in preservation. Public opinion polling conducted by the Coalition found that more than two-thirds of local residents opposed the development. The survey also found that 90 percent of local residents believed their county has a responsibility to protect Chancellorsville and other historic resources.\n\nAs a result of these efforts, in March 2003 the Spotsylvania County Board of Supervisors denied the rezoning application that would have allowed for the development of the site. Immediately following the vote, the Civil War Trust and other Coalition members began working to acquire the battlefield. By working with county officials and developers, the Civil War Trust acquired in 2004 and another in 2006.\n\nWith the help of the Civil War Trust, the Morris Island Coalition was formed in early 2004 to oppose development on historic Morris Island outside Charleston, South Carolina. Morris Island was the scene of the charge of the 54th Massachusetts Infantry on Fort Wagner, famously depicted in the film \"Glory\".\n\nThe Coalition, led by local resident Blake Hallman, generated local government support for preservation of Morris Island. Press reaction was favorable as well, and public opinion polls found that an overwhelming number of Charleston residents wanted to see the barrier island remain undeveloped. Hallman earned the Civil War Trust's \"Preservationist of the Year\" award for his efforts to save Morris Island.\n\nAt one time, development plans called for a 20-unit luxury house development on Cummings Point (the site of Fort Wagner). In early 2005, the landowner tried unsuccessfully to sell the property on eBay. At the end of 2005, a preservation-friendly developer acquired the property. He later agreed to sell it to the Trust for Public Land (TPL) for preservation purposes a few months later.\n\nIn 2008, the Trust engaged in fundraising efforts in support of the State of South Carolina, City of Charleston, and the Trust for Public Land's $3m effort that would preserve an additional of Morris Island.\n\nTogether with the Friends of Wilderness Battlefield, the National Trust for Historic Preservation, the Piedmont Environmental Council, the National Parks Conservation Association, Preservation Virginia and a group of concerned local residents, the Civil War Trust opposed the construction of a Walmart Supercenter on the Wilderness Battlefield in Orange County, Virginia. Following a nationwide outcry from preservationists and historians alike, Walmart Stores, Inc. announced in January 2011 that it had \"decided to preserve\" rather than develop the historic site where local officials had given the company permission to construct its newest superstore in 2009. Pulitzer Prize-winning author and historian James McPherson had identified the site as part of \"the nerve center of the Union Army during the Battle of the Wilderness.\"\n\nTrust President Jim Lighthizer praised Walmart's decision, stating that founder Sam Walton, a veteran of the Second World War, would have been \"proud\" of his company's move to preserve the hallowed ground. \"We stand ready to work with Walmart to put this controversy behind us and protect the battlefield from further encroachment,\" Lighthizer stated. \"We firmly believe that preservation and progress need not be mutually exclusive, and welcome Walmart as a thoughtful partner in efforts to protect the Wilderness Battlefield.\" In November 2013, Walmart donated the historic site comprising more than to the Commonwealth of Virginia.\n\nIn addition to preserving Civil War battlefield land, the American Battlefield Trust conducts programs designed to inform the public about the events and consequences of the Civil War, the Revolutionary War and the War of 1812, create a personal connection to the past and foster an understanding of the need for preservation and how it benefits society.\n\n\nThe American Battlefield Trust is located in Washington, D.C., with a field office in Hagerstown, Maryland.\n\nThe president of the American Battlefield Trust is O. James Lighthizer. Lighthizer was a former partner, Miles and Stockbridge; former Secretary of the Maryland Department of Transportation, Anne Arundel County Executive, and member of the Maryland General Assembly.\n\nIn December 1999, Lighthizer accepted the presidency of Civil War Preservation Trust, a new organization created by the merger of two other national battlefield preservation groups, the Civil War Trust and the Association for the Preservation of Civil War Sites. Lighthizer had previously served as a member of the Civil War Trust's Board of Trustees.\n\nWhen Lighthizer became president at CWPT in 1999, the fledgling organization had 22,000 members and its predecessor organizations had protected in the previous 13 years. During Lighthizer's tenure as president of the CWPT and the Civil War Trust, the group has added more than of protected land, and has 200,000 members and supporters nationwide. Lighthizer was also the architect of the 2006 purchase of the 208-acre Slaughter Pen Farm on the Fredericksburg Battlefield. The $12 million acquisition was the most expensive private battlefield preservation effort in American history.\n\nJeffrey R. Rodek is the chairman of the board of trustees of the American Battlefield Trust, appointed in June 2017. Rodek is Senior Lecturer at the Fisher College of Business, The Ohio State University. He is the former chairman and CEO of Hyperion Solutions Corp.\n\nTo commemorate the sesquicentennial of the Civil War, in 2011 the Trust began a significant fundraising initiative. By April 2014, the organization had met the initial $40 million fundraising goal of Campaign 150: Our Time, Our Legacy more than a year early, and chose to raise its goal to an unprecedented $50 million. In June 2015, as the Civil War sesquicentennial concluded, the Trust announced that it had met its revised goal and raised a total of $52.5 million during the four-year effort.\n\nThe Civil War Trust, now American Battlefield Trust, was a recipient of a 4-Star award from Charity Navigator in 2007, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016 and 2017. This award is presented to those charitable organizations that exhibit strong results and financial discipline.\n\nThe Trust received a 2012 accreditation from the Better Business Bureau's Wise Giving Alliance.\n\nThe Trust was awarded the \"Partner in Conservation Award\" by the United States Department of the Interior in 2010.\n\nThe Trust's membership magazine, \"Hallowed Ground\", has received the APEX Grand Award for Publication Excellence every year since 2009.\n\nThe Trust's Gettysburg Animated Map, produced by Wide Awake Films, received a 2014 Silver Telly Award in the Online/Historical Programs category.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280264", "title": "Cemetery Man", "text": "Cemetery Man\n\nCemetery Man () is a 1994 comedy horror film directed by Michele Soavi and starring Rupert Everett, François Hadji-Lazaro and Anna Falchi. It was produced by Tilde Corsi, Gianni Romoli and Soavi and based on the novel \"Dellamorte Dellamore\" by Tiziano Sclavi. Everett plays a beleaguered caretaker of a small Italian cemetery, who searches for love while defending himself from dead people who keep rising again. It is an international co-production between Italy, France, and Germany.\n\nFrancesco Dellamorte (Rupert Everett) is the cemetery caretaker in the small Italian town of Buffalora. He lives in a ramshackle house on the premises, constantly surrounded by death, with only his mentally handicapped assistant Gnaghi (François Hadji-Lazaro) for company. Young punks in town spread gossip that Dellamorte is impotent. His hobbies are reading outdated telephone directories, in which he crosses out the names of the deceased, and trying to assemble a puzzle shaped like a human skull. Gnaghi, whose interests include spaghetti and television, can speak only one word: \"Gna.\"\n\nThe Latin inscription over the Buffalora Cemetery gate reads \"RESURRECTURIS\" (\"For those who will rise again\"), and indeed, Dellamorte has had his hands full of late. Some people rise from their graves on the seventh night following their death, reanimated and ready to assault the living. Dellamorte destroys these creatures, who he calls \"Returners\", before they overrun the town. Buffalora's mayor (Stefano Masciarelli) is so fixated on his campaigning that he seems unable even to hear Dellamorte's pleas for an investigation. In any event, being an outcast in the village and almost illiterate, Dellamorte doesn't want to lose the job. He opens up to his only friend, Franco, a municipal clerk, but doesn't file the paperwork necessary to get assistance: \"It's easier just to shoot them.\"\n\nAt a funeral, Dellamorte falls hard and fast in love, with the unnamed young widow (Anna Falchi) of a rich, elderly man. The widow only begins to show an interest when Dellamorte tells her about the ossuary, which she adores. While consummating their relationship by her husband's grave, the husband returns, attacks, and bites her. She seems to die from the bite, but the coroner claims it was a heart attack. Fearing the worst, Dellamorte stays near her corpse, and shoots her when she rises.\n\nGnaghi becomes infatuated with the mayor's capricious daughter, Valentina (Fabiana Formica). This would seem to end tragically when she is decapitated in a motorcycle accident. Instead, Gnaghi digs up her reanimated head, and an innocent romance begins. The young widow also rises again, causing Dellamorte to believe that she was not really a zombie when he first shot her, in which case it was he who killed her. He plummets into a depression and is visited by the leering figure of Death, who tells him to \"Stop killing the dead\", asking him why he doesn't shoot the living instead.\n\nDellamorte encounters two more unnamed women, also played by Falchi. He goes to outrageous ends to be with the first of these, an assistant to the new mayor: when the object of his affection says she is terrified of sexual penetration, Dellamorte pretends that the rumour about his impotence is correct, and visits a doctor to have his penis removed. The doctor talks him out of it, giving him an injection for temporary impotence instead. Meanwhile, the woman has been raped by her employer, and then fallen in love with her rapist, discarding both her phobia and the cemetery man.\n\nHis grip on reality slipping, Dellamorte heads into town at night with his revolver, shooting the young men who have made fun of him for years due to his rumored impotence. He meets a third manifestation of the woman he loves, but upon finding out that she is a prostitute, he kills her and two other women by setting their house on fire with a room heater. His friend Franco (Anton Alexander) is accused of these murders after killing his wife and child, and attempts suicide the same night by drinking a bottle of iodine. Dellamorte goes to visit his friend in the hospital, to find out why Franco stole his murders. Sitting by the hospital bed, he casually murders a nun, a nurse, and a doctor. Franco doesn't even recognize him, so even these acts fail to change Dellamorte's situation. He screams out a confession, but is ignored.\n\nGnaghi and Dellamorte pack up the car, and head for the Buffalora city limits and the mountains beyond. Gnaghi's head is injured when Dellamorte slams on the brakes. They get out of the vehicle and walk to the edge of the road, where it drops into a chasm. Gnaghi begins to seize, and collapses to the ground. Dellamorte, realizing that the rest of the world doesn't exist and fearing that his assistant is dead or dying, loads a gun with two dum-dum bullets to finish them both off. Gnaghi wakes up and drops Dellamorte's gun off the cliff. He then asks to be taken home, speaking clearly. Dellamorte replies: \"Gna.\"\n\n\n\"Cemetery Man\" was first released in 1994. American distributor October Films changed its title to \"Cemetery Man\" and released it on April 26, 1996.\n\nAnchor Bay Entertainment released the film on R1 DVD in 2006 under the American title \"Cemetery Man\".\n\nRotten Tomatoes, a review aggregator, reports that 63% of 27 surveyed critics gave the film a positive review; the average rating is 6.15/10. The site's consensus reads: \"\"Cemetery Man\" will frustrate viewers seeking narrative cohesion or coherence, but this surreal brand of humor and horror should satisfy B-movie fans in the mood for quirk\". Stephen Holden of \"The New York Times\" wrote that the film is unconventional but becomes repetitive as Everett dispatches shallow metaphors for fascism. Bob Stephens of \"The San Francisco Examiner\" wrote that the film suffers from an uneven tone but \"is redeemed by his uncommon visual imagination\". Deborah Young of \"Variety\" wrote, \"A hip, offbeat horror item floating on a bed of dark philosophy, \"Dellamorte Dellamore\" is a deceptively easy genre picture with hidden depths.\" Mick LaSalle of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\" wrote, \"It aims high and misses, but it does hold interest with visual flash, wry humor and a couple of sex scenes that can make steam come out of your ears.\" In more modern reviews, Bloody Disgusting rated it 5/5 stars and called it \"one of the greatest cult films of the last twenty years\". Joshua Siebalt of Dread Central rated it 4/5 stars and wrote that Soavi's direction and film's humor make it different and memorable.\n\nDirector Martin Scorsese called \"Dellamorte Dellamore\" one of the best Italian films of the 1990s.\n\nIn January 2011, \"Fangoria\" reported that director Michele Soavi was planning a sequel. Soavi planned to shoot the film sometime near the end of 2011 or early 2012. He would produce the film himself and wanted the film to be a great, strong, shocking Italian horror film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280272", "title": "Matignon High School", "text": "Matignon High School\n\nMatignon High School is a private, co-educational Roman Catholic school in Cambridge, Massachusetts. The school is under the auspices of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston.\n\nIts campus on Matignon Road, Cambridge, consists of two school buildings: the main school building and a smaller alumni building containing development offices and art classrooms. The campus is adjacent to a church and a rectory. This church used to be the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Boston's Immaculate Conception church, but reopened in January 2006 as St. Sava Serbian Orthodox Church. The school also resides next to the International School of Boston.\n\nMatignon High School is named after Father Francis Anthony Matignon, who was born in Paris on November 10, 1753, and came to the United States after being ordained a priest. He died in 1818. In 1945, the high school was established by Richard Cardinal Cushing (then Archbishop of Boston). Known as a hockey school for many years, it has seen many of its alumni earn Division 1 scholarships and careers in the National Hockey League. The hockey team won ten state championships from the mid-1970s through the 1980s and was selected as the best high school hockey team in the nation five times. The 1984 squad had four seniors taken in the 84 NHL entry draft, while nine other players earned Division 1 hockey scholarships. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280273", "title": "KOFY-TV", "text": "KOFY-TV\n\nKOFY-TV, virtual channel 20 (UHF digital channel 21), is an independent television station licensed to San Francisco, California, United States and serving the San Francisco Bay Area. Owned by CNZ Communications, LLC, it is sister to Class A station KCNZ-CD (channel 28). The two stations share transmitter facilities atop San Bruno Mountain. KOFY-TV's studios were previously located on Marin Street in the Bayview–Hunters Point neighborhood of San Francisco until 2018; the station has since maintained space at KGO-TV's studios north of the city's Financial District. The station's signal is relayed on low-power digital translator station K27EE-D in Ukiah.\n\nThe construction permit for channel 20 was first awarded to Lawrence A. Harvey as KBAY-TV on March 11, 1953. Harvey owned industrial interests in Torrance and had also attempted to pursue construction permits in Los Angeles and Salem, Oregon. Despite an apparent attempt to sign on September 15, KBAY-TV did not make the air. Leonard and Lily Averett, doing business as Bay Television, acquired the unbuilt construction permit in January 1955 for no consideration; Leonard was a doctor who lived in Beverly Hills. A third southern Californian, Sherrill Corwin, acquired channel 20 in 1957 for the $1,750 the Averetts had spent on the venture, but KBAY-TV (whose call letters were KEZE-TV from 1961 to 1963) was still not built.\n\nIn late 1964, Corwin filed to sell KBAY-TV to Overmyer Communications Company, a broadcaster owned by Daniel H. Overmyer, who would later start the short-lived Overmyer Network (later called the United Network). The sale application was approved, after a hearing, in October. 1966 was a busy year: the station filed to move its facility from KGO's tower on Avanzada Street to Mount Sutro, while the call letters were changed to KEMO-TV, for Daniel's son, Edward Manning Overmyer.\n\nChannel 20 would sign on as KEMO-TV on April 1, 1968. It was jointly owned by the U.S. Communications Corporation station group of Philadelphia, holding an 80% interest and the remaining 20% by Corwin. Overmyer had previously sold 80% interest in the construction permits for WBMO-TV in Atlanta, WSCO-TV in Cincinnati, KEMO-TV in San Francisco, WECO-TV in Pittsburgh and KJDO-TV in Houston to AVC Corporation (U.S. Communications Corporation) on March 28, 1967, with FCC approval of their sale coming December 8, 1967. None of the stations were on the air at the time of the FCC approval of the sale. Beside KEMO-TV, U.S. Communications also operated WPHL-TV in Philadelphia, WATL in Atlanta, WXIX-TV in Cincinnati and WPGH-TV in Pittsburgh.\n\nKEMO-TV showed conventional independent fare, along with \"The Adults Only Movie\", a series of art films, not featuring sex or nudity—it was named \"Adults Only\" merely due to the films' lack of appeal to children. KEMO also offered Japanese live-action programs and cartoons dubbed into English including \"Speed Racer\", \"Ultraman\", \"8 Man\", \"Prince Planet\", \"Johnny Cypher in Dimension Zero\" and \"The King Kong Show\". With a mixture of locally produced and syndicated programming, KEMO-TV remained on the air for three years to the day, powering down its transmitter at midnight on March 31, 1971, to avoid paying the following month's PG&E electricity bill.\n\nThe former owner of KMPX-FM in San Francisco, Leon Crosby bought KEMO-TV later that year and it returned to the air on February 4, 1972. With an eclectic type of programming, KEMO featured shows such as \"Solesvida\" and \"Amapola Presents Show\" co-hosted by Amapola and Ness Aquino, to name a few. In 1973, Crosby also purchased WPGH-TV, the dark U.S. Communications station in Pittsburgh, bringing it back on the air January 14, 1974.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1980, KEMO aired stock market programming in the mornings (anchored by future CNN and Fox Business anchor Stuart Varney), religious programming in midday, local Spanish programming in the weekday afternoons and evenings, local Italian and imported Japanese programming on Sunday nights, and B-grade movies overnight, with Oakland carpet store owner Leon Heskett hosting the films. Leon Crosby's KEMO signed off on September 30, 1980.\n\nThe station was then sold to FM radio pioneer James Gabbert (who previously owned popular music station KIOI (101.3 FM), who returned it to the air on October 6, 1980, as KTZO (which stood for Television 20, the Z being construed as a numeral 2), with a dramatically upgraded general entertainment format, featuring off-network drama shows, sitcoms, old movies, rejected CBS and NBC shows preempted by KPIX-TV (channel 5; notably including CBS' powerhouse daytime game show \"The Price Is Right\") and KRON-TV (channel 4), music videos, and religious shows. But while its independent competitors at that time, KTVU (channel 2, now a Fox owned-and-operated station), KICU-TV (channel 36) and KBHK (channel 44, now CW station KBCW) landed stronger syndicated programs, a majority of KTZO's programming lineup at most consisted of low-budget programs, which continued into its early years as KOFY. Most memorable were the station identification breaks featuring pets, usually dogs, of Bay Area viewers that would look on cue at a television screen showing the station's logo. In fact, these proved to be immensely popular—so much so that KTZO/KOFY eventually began working with the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals by displaying pets that could be adopted, along with a phone number to call with the pet's name on screen. These IDs were retired in 1998, having aired alongside \"official\" WB-issued KOFY IDs for the first three years of the network's existence.\n\nOther popular programming during the early and mid-1980s included the \"TV-20 Dance Party\" (originally a \"Top 40\" music format featuring local high schools, hosted by Bay Area DJ Tony Kilbert; later a 1950s \"retro\" style show hosted by Gabbert), and a Sunday late-night movie program. The Sunday program included studio segments at the beginning and commercial breaks of the movie, hosted by Gabbert and set in the fictional \"Sleazy Arms Hotel\" bar. Viewers were invited to join Gabbert on the set and for a time, enjoy a sponsor's product (a malt liquor).\n\nAlso in the early 1980s, KTZO became one of the many stations in the U.S. to broadcast \"Star Fleet\" (aka \"X-Bomber\"), a sci-fi marionette television series which originally debuted in Japan in 1980.\n\nOn March 1, 1986, the station changed its call letters to KOFY-TV (pronounced \"coffee\"). The change occurred following Gabbert's purchase of radio station KOFY (1050 AM, now KTCT), which operated as a Spanish language station until Gabbert changed the format to 1950s–60s oldies rock during the 1980s and 1990s, later reverting to the Spanish language format. Gabbert sold KOFY radio in 1997 to Susquehanna Radio Corporation which changed the format from Spanish music to a sports talk format complementing its existing sports station, KNBR. At one point, Gabbert made Bay Area broadcasting history by televising a 3D movie that required special glasses, \"Gorilla at Large\". KOFY-TV continued to run a general entertainment format, and added more cartoons in the late 1980s. Beginning in September 1987, the station filled the 7 to 11 p.m. timeslot with drama series such as \"Perry Mason\", \"Cannon\", \"Lou Grant\" and \"Combat!\"\n\nFrom the mid-1980s to the early 1990s, KOFY also featured an in-studio, live kids cartoon show called \"Cartoon Classics\". Hosted by Maestro Dick Bright, the show offered such cartoons as \"Mighty Mouse\", \"Bugs Bunny\", \"Tom and Jerry\" and \"Popeye\". The show frequently featured local magician Magic Mike (played by Michael Stroud) performing for the studio children. Finally the live-action in-studio segment was scrapped and the show just showed the cartoons straight. Afternoon cartoon shows such as these eventually became a thing of the past as cable television was able to feature round-the-clock cartoons aimed at younger viewers.\nKOFY added more sitcoms in the early 1990s. As noted above, KOFY also broadcast network daytime game shows and Saturday morning cartoons not carried by KRON and KPIX such as NBC game shows \"Blockbusters\", \"Classic Concentration\" and the daytime version of \"Win, Lose or Draw\"; the NBC cartoon series \"Alvin and the Chipmunks\"; the CBS game show \"The Price Is Right\"; the CBS cartoon series \"The Get Along Gang\" and \"Saturday Supercade\"; and for a few weeks during the Oliver North Iran-Contra hearings, \"Wordplay\". The CBS game show \"Tattletales\" was picked up for the KEMO schedule during the mid-1970s among its foreign language-heavy programming when KPIX did not carry its CBS feed.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, Gabbert would preempt normal programming during the entire evening and broadcast its own version of the Yule Log, a concept borrowed from WPIX in New York City (which incidentally, would also later affiliate with The WB). In the late 1980s through the mid-1990s, the station ran an \"oldies dance party\" hosted by James Gabbert, and emceed by Sean King.\n\nIn mid-January 1994, the stations began airing the Action Pack programming block with \"TekWar\" TV movie. The ratings jumped 350% over its November ratings.\n\nThe station became the Bay Area's WB affiliate, when the network launched on January 11, 1995. KOFY eventually began to upgrade its programming inventory from low-budget programming to more higher-profile syndicated programs to compete with other stations in the market and channel 20's own growth as a WB affiliate.\n\nIn 1996, KOFY-TV employees attempted to organize as a collective bargaining unit under the labor union for broadcast employees, NABET. Gabbert and various KOFY-TV managers interfered with the organizing effort, resulting in a case before the National Labor Relations Board. The NLRB ultimately ruled against the station.\n\nIn 1998, Gabbert sold KOFY for $170 million to minority-owned Granite Broadcasting, who changed the call sign to KBWB on September 14, 1998, to reflect its network affiliation. In 1999, KBWB's operations were merged with those of then-sister station KNTV (channel 11) in San Jose, who contributed a 10:00 p.m. newscast, plus simulcasts of its morning newscast, and, in return, received a temporary WB affiliation for 18 months after KNTV voluntarily dropped its ABC affiliation at the behest of network-owned KGO-TV (channel 7; KGO served most of the Bay Area, while KNTV served as the ABC affiliate for the South Bay). This arrangement ended in April 2002 after KNTV, by then the NBC affiliate for the San Francisco market, was sold to that network.\n\nIn September 2005, Granite announced the sale of KBWB and sister station WDWB (now WMYD) in Detroit to AM Media Holdings, Inc. (a unit of Acon Investments and several key Granite shareholders) for a price rated, on KBWB's end, to around $83 million. The low price, compared to the more than double amount Granite had purchased the station for, came out of Granite wanting to cut down its debt load while wanting to keep control of the stations. On February 15, 2006, Granite announced the restructuring of the sale considering the changing conditions of the station and that AM Media Holdings may not own channel 20.\n\nIn May 2006, Granite announced that it had sold KBWB, along with WMYD, to DS Audible, a new group affiliated with Canyon Capital Advisors, D.B. Zwirn & Co., Fortress Investment Group and Ramius Capital Group, among others, for $150 million cash (DS Audible San Francisco, LLC, one of the two groups created by the investment groups, would have acquired KBWB for $65.75 million). The previous agreement to sell the two stations to AM Media was withdrawn. On July 18, 2006, this sale also fell apart; Granite then announced it would try to find another company willing to buy KBWB. Granite filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy reorganization on December 11, 2006, after missing an interest payment on its debt of more than $400 million.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, the Warner Bros. unit of Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would shut down The WB and UPN and combine the networks' respective programming to create a new \"fifth\" network called The CW. On the day of the announcement, the network signed a ten-year affiliation deal with 11 of CBS Corporation's 15 UPN stations, including KBHK (which subsequently changed its calls to KBCW). Network representatives were on record as preferring the \"strongest\" WB and UPN affiliates in terms of viewership, and KBHK had been well ahead of KBWB in the ratings for virtually all of UPN's run. Another new network that would launch the same month as The CW, MyNetworkTV (which debuted on September 5), ended up affiliating with former NBC affiliate turned independent KRON-TV.\nSoon after the CW announcement, the station rebranded to \"TV20\" (following the lead of Detroit's future MyNetworkTV affiliate and sister station WMYD, formerly WDWB, which also branded as \"TV20\"). KBWB reverted to being an independent station on September 18, 2006 (one of three in the San Francisco market, alongside KICU and KFTY channel 50, now KEMO-TV), under the new branding as \"Your TV20\" (a parallel of sorts to \"My TV20\", the branding of sister station WMYD, which affiliated with MyNetworkTV). In March 2008, channel 20 revived the dog station IDs that were previously used under James Gabbert's ownership of the station, this time featuring dogs sitting on a couch in front of several San Francisco backdrops.\n\nKBWB then became an alternate ABC affiliate, carrying programs from that network during instances where KGO-TV pre-empts regularly scheduled network programming for local breaking news coverage. On October 8, 2008, at 10:00 p.m., KBWB reverted to its previous KOFY-TV call letters, commemorating the change with a 10-minute documentary about former owner James Gabbert and the station's history.\nIn the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)'s incentive auction, KOFY-TV sold its spectrum for $88,357,227 and indicated that it would enter into a post-auction channel sharing agreement. On October 30, 2017, the station entered into a channel sharing agreement with KCNZ-CD (channel 28); concurrently, Granite Broadcasting agreed to sell the KOFY-TV license to Stryker Media 2, a sister company to KCNZ-CD owner Poquito Mas Communications, for $6 million; Stryker Media 2 is a subsidiary of CNZ Communications. The sale was completed on October 15, 2018.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nOn July 1, 2007, KBWB began carrying programming from Azteca América on a new digital subchannel 20.4. It replaced KTNC-TV (channel 42) as the network's affiliate, that station switched to a Spanish-language independent format on that date.\n\nKOFY-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 20, on June 12, 2009, as part of the federally mandated transition from analog to digital television. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 19, using PSIP to display KOFY-TV's virtual channel as 20 on digital television receivers.\n\nOn July 28, 2011, High Plains Broadcasting (a partner company used by Newport Television to absolve ownership conflicts between certain stations owned by the Providence Equity Partners-backed group and Univision, which Providence holds an equity interest in) announced plans to sell Santa Rosa-based KFTY (channel 50) to Una Vez Más Holdings, with the intent to affiliate that station with Azteca América. On September 29, 2011, KFTY's affiliation with MeTV was discontinued and became KEMO-TV, adopting the callsign once used by KOFY-TV. KEMO-TV briefly mirrored the Azteca América programming that was still seen on KOFY 20.4; this ended shortly afterward, when KOFY discontinued the Azteca América feed.\nOn October 17, 2011, KOFY announced that it signed an affiliation agreement with MeTV; the station would carry the network on a new digital subchannel 20.2.\n\nIn July 2017, with the spectrum move, VieTV was moved to KCNS 38.3, replacing Comet, at this point; 20.3 was removed.\n\nOn March 22, 2018, MeTV was dropped from 20.2 and replaced with This TV from 20.4.\n\nThe station offers a schedule of first-run talk shows, court shows, off-network sitcoms, reality shows, and movies such as \"The Steve Wilkos Show\", \"\", \"Funny You Should Ask\", \"America's Court with Judge Ross\", \"Last Man Standing\" and \"Black-ish\". The latter airs first run episodes on news share station KGO-TV,\n\nIn the 1990s, KOFY-TV aired a select number of University of San Francisco Dons college basketball games. On April 3, 2013, KOFY-TV aired its first baseball telecast, a primetime game between the Oakland Athletics and the Seattle Mariners, that was produced by Comcast SportsNet California.\n\nFrom 2002 to 2006, KBWB ran an entertainment news segment called \"The Daily Mixx\", which aired at 5:56 and 10:00 p.m. daily. \"The Mixx\", as it was sometimes referred to, showed clips of celebrity interviews as well as movie previews and giveaways such as tickets to the Santa Cruz Beach Boardwalk and Winchester Mystery House. It was hosted by Chris Labrum and Angela Murrow (sometimes known as Angela Bakke) during the segment's first two years and by Lesley Nagy and Shane Tallant in subsequent years. An extended version, called \"The Mixx EP\", aired on the fourth Wednesday or Thursday of each month. In January 2006, Tallant left KBWB leaving Nagy as the station's lone correspondent.\n\nOn January 1, 2009, KOFY premiered a late night horror movie showcase titled \"Creepy KOFY Movie Time\", that first aired at midnight when it premiered that early New Year's Day morning. Afterward, the program moved to its permanent timeslot on late Saturday nights/very early Sunday mornings at 11:00 p.m. on January 3, 2009.\n\nThe program is hosted by local radio personality No Name, and Balrok, a demon, who claim to broadcast from caves under the KOFY studios. The hosts have a snarky frat-boy style and have had many off-color guests, including frequent guest, adult film actress Annie Cruz. The broadcast features an in-house band, the surf/punk band The Deadlies, and the hosts are often flanked during the broadcast by a variety of comely bikini clad models/actresses/fans. Beginning with its third season in 2007, the program added two regular go-go dancers known as the Cave Girls whom often perform with the Deadlies. On July 24, 2010, \"Creepy KOFY Movie Time\" was moved to 11:00 p.m. The show was cancelled in February 2017, replaced for the most part by \"Creature Features\"|.\n\nThe station aired a local newscast, by the early 1990s, which was eventually cancelled after a few years. Prior to this, in 1989, the station rebroadcast KRON-TV (channel 4)'s newscasts, branded as \"NewsCenter 4 on KOFY\". The KRON-produced 10 p.m. newscast debuted in March 1991 with Pete Wilson and Pam Moore as co-anchors, but ended a year later when KRON-TV began the \"early prime\" experiment (in which it, and later, KPIX-TV, moved primetime programming one hour earlier, matching the primetime scheduling of network shows in the Central and Mountain Time Zones) and \"moved\" the 10 p.m. newscast over to channel 4 (in actuality, moving the station's existing 11 p.m. newscast to the 10 p.m. slot).\n\nUnder Granite ownership, the station reintroduced a 10 p.m. newscast—this time, produced by KNTV—titled \"WB20 News at 10\" on September 14, 1998 (the same day as KOFY's callsign change to KBWB); the program was renamed \"The WB Primetime News at 10\" on July 3, 2000, when KNTV also began producing a morning newscast for the station. However, the KNTV-produced primetime news effort failed to pose a significant threat to KTVU's long-dominant 10 p.m. newscast (an issue which caused KRON and KPIX-TV to move their newscasts back to 11 p.m. by the late 1990s), and both newscasts were cancelled in 2002 after NBC's purchase of KNTV.\n\nFive years later, KBWB entered into a news share agreement with ABC owned-and-operated station KGO-TV to produce another primetime newscast. On January 8, 2007, KGO began producing a weeknight-only 9:00 p.m. newscast for channel 20, titled \"ABC 7 News at 9:00 on Your TV20\" (later \"ABC 7 News at 9:00 on KOFY\"). Starting September 3, 2018, KOFY re-aired the 9:00 p.m. weeknight newscast at 10:00 p.m. In addition, KOFY also airs the rebroadcast of KGO-TV's 11:00 p.m. newscast at 11:30 p.m. on weeknights. Until 2012, it also rebroadcast KGO's political discussion program \"Assignment 7\" on Sunday evenings following the 6 p.m. news rebroadcast. In July 2019, KGO stopped production of the 9:00 p.m. newscast, with the final edition airing on July 19. Starting Monday, July 22, 2019, the 9:00 p.m. and 10:00 p.m. newscasts were replaced with syndicated programming. However, the rebroadcast of KGO's 6:00 p.m. weeknight newscast was reinstated at 7:00 p.m.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280282", "title": "1863 in archaeology", "text": "1863 in archaeology\n\n1863 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280283", "title": "Eugen Schuhmacher", "text": "Eugen Schuhmacher\n\nEugen Schuhmacher (actually Eugen Josef Robert Schuhmacher) (August 4, 1906 – January 8, 1973) was a German zoologist and pioneer of animal documentaries. Besides Bernhard Grzimek and Heinz Sielmann he belongs to the German wildlife documentary filmmakers with an international reputation.\n\nEugen Schuhmacher was born in Stuttgart, Germany. His career began in the early 1930s with educational and cultural shortfilms about the wildlife in South America and the German Reich. In the next four decades he made documentaries (feature length and shortfilms) about animals, the Inca culture, and the indigenous people from North America, South America and Papua New Guinea. This movies were awarded at festivals in Berlin, Venice and in Cannes. His movie \"Natur in Gefahr\" (Nature in Danger) from 1952 is an alerting report of the destruction of the nature paradises and the extinction of species. His feature film \"In the Shadow of the Karakoram\" (Im Schatten des Karakorum) received the German Film Prize for best documentary in 1955. In 1958 he discovered the German television for his work and he made one of the first German television series about endangered species. 37 episodes of \"On the Track of rare Animals\" (Auf den Spuren seltener Tiere) were shot, a series which has taken the audience on a journey to Galapagos, Papua New Guinea, Africa, and other exotic places. This series was very popular in German television. In 1966 he finished his movie project \"\", a film which had taken seven years to make. It was awarded at the Mountain Film Festival at Trento in 1967. Schuhmacher has died at age 66 of cancer in Munich, Germany. His last movie \"Europas Paradiese\" (Europe's paradises) had its premiere after his death.\n\nHe was awarded the Royal Geographical Society's Cherry Kearton Medal and Award in 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280287", "title": "Phillip Berryman", "text": "Phillip Berryman\n\nPhillip E. Berryman (born 1938) is the author of several books on both liberation theology and the Christian experience in Latin America. After his ordination as a Roman Catholic priest in 1963, he spent two years at a church in Pasadena, California, before working in pastoral ministry in the Panama City barrio of El Chorrillo from 1965–1973.\n\nThat year, he left the priesthood and married. He later worked with the American Friends Service Committee, living in Guatemala but traveling throughout Central America. He returned to the United States in 1980 and began writing the next year. He is a professor of Latin American Studies at Temple University. He now lives in Philadelphia with his wife, Angela, with whom he has three children: Catherine, Maggie and Lizzy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280289", "title": "1985 in baseball", "text": "1985 in baseball\n\n\n\n\nMajor League Triple Crown Pitching Winner\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280290", "title": "Anushirwan", "text": "Anushirwan\n\nAnushirwan Khan (, \"Anūshīrvān Khān\") occupied the Ilkhanid throne from 1344 until his death in 1357. He was a puppet of the Chobanid ruler Malek Ashraf and possessed no power of his own. He is notable for being the last of the Ilkhan dynasty to have coins struck in his name.\n\nAnushirwan's origins are obscure. One account suggests that Malek Ashraf's wardrobe keeper, a certain Nushirvan, was raised to the throne and given the name \"Anushirvan\", after the famous Sasanian king Khosrow I Anushirvan. The Chobanids struck coins in his name until 1357.\n"}
{"id": "2280291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280291", "title": "West of Scotland Band Alliance", "text": "West of Scotland Band Alliance\n\nThe West of Scotland Band Alliance, are the oldest Republican marching organisation in Scotland formed in 1979. They march to promote the establishment of a 32 County Socialist Republic of Ireland. The band alliance regularly organise events to commemorate Irish republican activists who have died for those politics. It was historically much larger during the 1980s when there was a lot more active Republican Flute Bands active. Today, the member bands include the Parkhead Republican Flute Band (Glasgow) and the Garngad Republican Flute Band (Glasgow]).\n\nIn October 1979, a meeting took place in the East End of Glasgow with the Three flute bands that existed in the city at that time: The James Connolly RFB, The Billy Reid RFB and The Kevin Barry RFB. The purpose of the meeting was to discuss the infamous battle that took place on 21 April on Victoria Road in Glasgow when republicans were marching in support of the blanket protest in Long Kesh. As the march made its way down Victoria Road it came under sustained attack from Scottish loyalists, resulting in several band members being injured.\n\nAfter the events of that day, it was decided that republicans should organise themselves into one organisation. The West of Scotland Republican Band Alliance was formed. All future marches would be organised by the Band Alliance committee. At their peak in the mid 1980s, there were 18 flute bands in the Band Alliance. The organisation declared its support for former member and Provisional Irish Republican Army prisoner Michael Dickson imprisoned for an attack on the Osnabrück barracks in Germany and are the only republican organisation in Scotland to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280292", "title": "Trsteno", "text": "Trsteno\n\nTrsteno (, Dalmatian: \"Canait\") is a district of Dubrovnik in southern Croatia, population 237 (2001). It is located on the magistral road between the Orašac and Slano.\n\nTrsteno is most famous for its arboretum, is the oldest arboretum in this part of the world. The arboretum was erected by the local noble family of Gozze in the late 15th century, who requested ship captains to bring back seeds and plants from their travels. The exact start date for the arboretum is unknown, but it was already in existence by 1492, when a 15 m span aqueduct to irrigate the arboretum was constructed; this aqueduct is still in use. It has been the property of the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts since 1948, when it was donated. The Arboretum reserves a very special place among the old Ragusan, Dalmatian and Mediterranean parks. It includes a park surrounding the fifteenth century summer residence, which is a monument of garden architecture, and a nineteenth century park at Drvarica.\n\nThe arboretum passed into Yugoslav state ownership in 1945, and was declared a natural rarity in 1948. Since 1950 it has been managed by the Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts. In 1962 the Arboretum Trsteno was registered in the list of protected natural monuments list as a monument of landscape architecture. The protected area covers around 255,000 square metres.\n\nTrsteno suffered extensive damage and looting during the Croatian War of Independence when on October 2 and 3rd, 1991, the Yugoslav People's Army launched a series of gunboat and air attacks and set the Arboretum afire, destroying a large part of it, and causing partial damage to the summer residence and the oldest part of the arboretum. The arboretum was further severely damaged in 2000 by a forest fire during a drought, when around 120,000 square metres were lost in fire.\n\nThe pride of the arboretum, two Oriental Planes located on the central market place of Trsteno, survived both disasters undamaged. They are over 500 years old and are unique specimens of its kind in Europe. The ancient trees are both about 45/60 m tall and their trunks are 5 m in diameter. Within what was once the noble family's country house, there is the oldest Renaissance park in Croatia, designed in 1502, with numerous exotic plants.\n\nIn the third season and fourth season of the television series \"Game of Thrones\", Trsteno and its Arboretum was used as the setting of the Red Keep palace gardens in King's Landing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280293", "title": "Bing West", "text": "Bing West\n\nFrancis J. \"Bing\" West (Boston, Massachusetts, May 2, 1940) is an American author, Marine combat veteran and former Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs during the Reagan Administration. \n\nWest writes about the military, warfighting, and counterinsurgency. In the Vietnam War, he fought in major operations and conducted over a hundred combat patrols in 1966–1968. For the United States Marine Corps, he wrote the training manual \"Small Unit Action in Vietnam\", describing how to fight in close combat. As an analyst at the RAND Corporation, he wrote a half dozen detailed monographs about fighting against an insurgency. Later, as Assistant Secretary of Defense, he dealt with the insurgencies in El Salvador. From 2003 through 2008, he made 16 extended trips to Iraq, going on patrols and writing three books and numerous articles about the war. From 2007 through 2011, he made numerous trips to embed in Afghanistan.\n\nWest is from the Massachusetts communities of Dorchester, Boston, Milton and Scituate. He is a graduate of Georgetown University (BA) and Princeton University (MA), where he was a Woodrow Wilson Fellow.\n\nWest was an infantry officer in the Marine Corps during the Vietnam War. He led the mortar platoon of 2nd Battalion, 9th Marines. Later, he served with a Combined Action Platoon that fought for 485 days in a remote village. He was also a member of the Marine Force Reconnaissance team that initiated \"Operation Stingray\": small unit attacks behind enemy lines. He authored a study at the RAND Corporation entitled \"The Strike Teams: Tactical Performance and Strategic Potential\". This paper was the featured event at the 1970 Department of Defense Counterinsurgency Research and Development Symposium. The RAND Military Systems Simulations Group implemented a classified model of West's concept. This doctrinal innovation was directly opposed by Military Assistance Command Vietnam (MACV), which favored the Army's concept of Air-Mobility \"Fire and Thunder Operations\". By way of rebuttal, West wrote \"The Village\", chronicling the daily lives of 15 Marines who protected Vietnamese villagers by living among them in their hamlets. The book became a classic of practical counterinsurgency and has been on the Marine Corps Commandant's Required Reading List for five decades.\n\nWest served as Assistant Secretary of Defense for International Security Affairs in the Ronald Reagan administration, and chaired the United States Security Commissions with El Salvador, Morocco, Tunisia, Egypt, Israel, Jordan, Pakistan, South Korea, and Japan.\n\nAmong other awards, West is the recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the Department of the Navy Distinguished Civilian Service Medal, and Tunisia's Medaille de Liberté. A member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the Infantry Order of St. Crispin, he appears frequently on C-SPAN and \"The News Hour\" on PBS.\n\nWest is the author of ten books. His 2019 collaboration with Marine General Jim Mattis, entitled \"Call Sign Chaos: Learing to Lead\", was the #1 New York Times Bestseller. A prior book, written with retired Marine Major General Ray \"E-Tool\" Smith, \"The March Up\", was awarded the Marine Corps Heritage Foundation's General Wallace M. Greene, Jr. Award for non-fiction, as well as the William E. Colby Award for military history. The Veterans of Foreign Wars presented West with its National Media Award in 2005, after he wrote the book \"No True Glory: A Frontline Account of the Battle for Fallujah\". His book \"The Strongest Tribe\", is a history of the Iraq War that was a \"New York Times\" Best Seller and was ranked by \"Foreign Affairs\" magazine as #7 among the top foreign policy books of 2009. \"Into the Fire\" ranked #8 on the \"New York Times\" Best Seller List.\n\nIn \"The Strongest Tribe\" and in a subsequent article in \"Military Review\" about counterinsurgency lessons, West argued that the current doctrine of nation-building and winning hearts and minds by economic development was based on Western liberal theory rather than the realities of battle. West has grave reservations about extolling the effects of \"non-kinetic COIN\" (counterinsurgency). He believes that the warriors, not the people, defeat warriors, and that America's mistake in both Iraq and Afghanistan was to concede all authority to appoint and to remove for cause military and police officers. He believes American policymkers tried to do too much with too little in too short a time.\n\nHis articles have appeared in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Atlantic\", \"The National Review\", and \"The Washington Post\" He is the recipient of the Department of Defense Distinguished Public Service Medal, the Marine Corps Heritage Award (twice), the Goodpaster Prize for Military Scholarship, the Father Clyde E. Leonard Award, the Free Press Award, the Marine Corps Correspondents' Distinguished Performance Award, the Veterans of Foreign Wars' National Media Award and the Marine Corps Russell Award for Leadership.\n\nWest lives with his wife, Elizabeth, in Newport, Rhode Island and Hilton Head, SC. He has two daughters, two sons (one of whom is Owen) and eight grandchildren.\n\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "2280298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280298", "title": "Lesser goldfinch", "text": "Lesser goldfinch\n\nThe lesser goldfinch (\"Spinus psaltria\") is a very small songbird of the Americas. Together with its relatives the American goldfinch and Lawrence's goldfinch, it forms the American goldfinches clade in the genus \"Spinus\" \"sensu stricto\".\n\nThe American goldfinches can be distinguished by the males having a black (rarely green) forehead, whereas the latter is (like the rest of the face) red or yellow in the European goldfinch and its relatives. North American males are markedly polymorphic and five subspecies are often named; at least two of them seem to represent a less-progressed stage in evolution, however.\n\nThis petite species is not only the smallest North American \"Spinus\" finch, it may be the smallest true finch in the world. Some sources list more subtropical \"Spinus\" species as slightly smaller on average, including the Andean siskin. This species ranges from in length and can weigh from . Among standard measurements, the wing chord is , the tail is , the bill is and the tarsus is . There is a slight NW-SE cline in size, with the largest birds from Mexico and further south being up to one-fifth larger than the smallest from the extreme northwest of its range; this effect is more pronounced in females. There is also considerable variation in the amount of black on head and back in males, and thus three subspecies have been proposed. But this variation, too, seems to be simple and clinal changes in allele frequency, and thus the \"subspecies\" might be better considered morphs or geographic forms.\nMales are easily recognized by their bright yellow underparts and big white patches in the tail (outer rectrices) and on the wings (the base of the primaries). They range from having solid black from the back to the upper head including the ear-coverts to having these regions medium green; each of the back, crown and ear regions varies in darkness rather independently though, as a rule, the ears are not darker than the rest. In most of the range, dark \"psaltria\" birds (the black-backed goldfinch) predominate. The light birds are termed \"hesperophilus\" (the green-backed goldfinch) and are most common in the far western U.S. and northwestern Mexico.\n\nThe zone in which both light and dark males occur on a regular basis is broadest in the north, and extends across the width of the Rocky Mountains and Sierra Madre Occidental ranges. It reaches the Pacific Coast in southern Sonora to northern Sinaloa, roughly between the area of Ciudad Obregón to Culiacán. In the United States, the most diverse array of phenotypes can be found in Colorado and New Mexico. East of the 106th meridian west in southwestern Texas as well as in most of Mexico, almost all males have black backs. \"Spinus psaltria colombianus\" (the Columbian goldfinch), east and south of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec, is richer yellow below in males. This, as well as the even yellower \"S. p. jouyi\" (the Yucatán goldfinch) from the Yucatán Peninsula and adjacent regions and \"S. p. witti\" (the Tres Marías goldfinch) from the Islas Marías off Nayarit require more study, especially as at least the former two seem also to be significantly larger and longer-billed.\nFemales' and immatures' upperparts are more or less grayish olive-green; their underparts are yellowish, buffier in immatures. They have only a narrow strip of white on the wings (with other white markings in some forms) and little or no white on the tail. They are best distinguished from other members of the genus by the combination of small size, upperparts without white or yellow, and dark gray bill. In all plumages, this bird can easily be taken for a New World warbler if the typical finch bill is not seen well.\n\nLike other goldfinches, it has an undulating flight in which it frequently gives a call: in this case, a harsh \"chig chig chig\". Another distinctive call is a very high-pitched, drawn-out whistle, often rising from one level pitch to another (\"teeeyeee\") or falling (\"teeeyooo\"). The song is a prolonged warble or twitter, more phrased than that of the American goldfinch, often incorporating imitations of other species.\n\nThis American goldfinch ranges from the southwestern United States (near the coast, as far north as extreme southwestern Washington) to Venezuela and Peru. It migrates from the colder parts of its U.S. range.\n\nThe lesser goldfinch often occurs in flocks or at least loose associations. It utilizes almost any habitat with trees or shrubs except for dense forest, and is common and conspicuous in many areas, often coming near houses. It is common at feeders in the Southwest United States and will come almost anywhere with thistle sock feeders. Flocks of at least six birds will often be seen at feeders. It feeds mostly on tree buds and weed seeds; geophagy has been observed in this species.\n\nThe nesting season is in summer in the temperate parts of its range; in the tropics it apparently breeds all-year round, perhaps less often in September and October. It lays three or four bluish white eggs in a cup nest made of fine plant materials such as lichens, rootlets, and strips of bark, placed in a bush or at low or middle levels in a tree.\n\nThe moult occurs in two different patterns which coincides with the blackness of the upperparts quite well. Here too is a broad zone of intergradation. Pacific birds moult after breeding, and females shed a few body feathers before breeding too. Juvenile males shed more remiges than females when moulting into adult plumage. East of the 106th meridian west, birds moult strongly before breeding and replace another quantity of feathers afterwards, and post-juvenal moult does not differ significantly between the sexes. However, this seems dependent on the differing rainfall regimes; simply put, birds at least anywhere in the North American range moult most of their plumage at the end of the dry season and may replace more feathers at the end of the wet season.\n\nConsidered a Species of Least Concern by the IUCN due to its vast range, it nonetheless seems to be declining locally. For example, it is rare in the Ecuadorean Andes foothills.\n\nThe molecular genetics and phylogeny of this species, together with other \"Carduelis\" and \"Spinus\" species relatedness, has been established by Antonio Arnaiz-Villena, et al. Also, its appearance on Earth was calculated approximately.\n\nThe lesser goldfinch is the single North American bird species which has expanded its range most widely. It reaches from EEUU to northern Peru through the Andean Spine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280299", "title": "Spyros Skouras", "text": "Spyros Skouras\n\nSpyros Panagiotis Skouras (; ; March 28, 1893 – August 16, 1971) was a Greek-American motion picture pioneer and movie executive who was the president of the 20th Century Fox from 1942 to 1962. He resigned June 27, 1962, but served as chairman of the company for several years. He also had numerous ships, owning Prudential Lines.\n\nSkouras and two brothers came to the United States as immigrants in 1910; Spyros kept such a pronounced Greek accent in English that comedian Bob Hope would joke \"Spyros has been here twenty years but he still sounds as if he's coming next week.\" Skouras oversaw the production of such epics as \"Cleopatra\" (1963) with Elizabeth Taylor, as well as the development of Century City.\n\nHis grandchildren include Charles P. Skouras III, a film and television executive. His great-granddaughter Marielle Skouras has produced more than 25 television shows and created \"Beverly Hills Pawn,\" a hit reality show on REELZchannel.\n\nSpyros Panagiotis Skouras was born in 1893 in Skourohorion, Greece to a family whose father was a sheepherder. Together with his brothers Charles and George Skouras, he emigrated to the United States in 1910. The brothers settled in St. Louis, Missouri, at that time the fourth-largest city in America and a booming industrial city. \n\nLiving frugally on wages as busboys and bartenders in downtown hotels, by 1914 the brothers had savings of $3,500. In partnership with two other Greeks, the Skourases constructed a modest nickelodeon at 1420 Market Street; today's Kiel Opera House now occupies this site. They called their theater the Olympia, and soon acquired other theaters. \nThe brothers incorporated in 1924 with $400,000 capital stock. By then more than thirty local theaters belonged to the Skouras Brothers Co. of St. Louis. The biggest moment for the Skouras empire came when their dream of building a world-class movie palace in downtown St. Louis was realized in 1926 when they opened the $5.5 million Ambassador Theatre Building. In 1929, following the Stock Market Crash, the triumvirate sold out their interest to Warner Brothers and moved east, gaining executive places in the industry, which was then based in the New York area.\n\nFrom 1929 to 1931 during the Great Depression, Spyros Skouras worked as a general manager of the Warner Brothers Theater Circuit in the United States. During these hard years, he eliminated losses and eventually quadrupled the profits of the chain. Despite this success, his wish to be his own boss again made him voluntarily leave the company. After that, and for a short while, he worked as a manager for Paramount.\n\nIn 1932, the Skouras Brothers (Charles, Spyros and George) took over the management of the Fox West Coast Theater chain, with more than 500 theaters. The studio was threatened with bankruptcy due to falloff in business because of the Depression. The three brothers worked to help the company survive. \nSkouras had several children with his wife, including sons Spyros S. Skouras, Plato A. Skouras. His daughter jumped from a building to her death. Athanasios Skouras, member of the Greek Resistant Organisation PEAN during the Axis Occupation of Greece in the Second World War, was a relative of his.\n\nIn May 1935 Spyros Skouras took the initiative for the merger of Fox Studios with Twentieth Century Pictures. He served as president of the merged company 20th Century Fox from 1942 to 1962. Skouras was also a major stockholder of 20th Century Fox. \n\nIn the 1950s he, together with his brothers, controlled 20th Century Fox, National Theaters, Fox West Coast Theaters, United Artists Theaters, Skouras Theaters, Magna Corp, and Todd AO. Skouras' assets in 1952 amounted to $108,000,000, greater than any other theater or movie mogul, including the Schencks, Warners, Shuberts, or his countryman Alexander Pantages.\n\nSkouras oversaw the production of such classics as \"Don't Bother to Knock\", \"The Seven Year Itch\", \"The Hustler\", \"The King and I\", \"Gentlemen Prefer Blondes\" and \"The Robe\". He signed a young model named Norma Jean Baker to 20th Century Fox who, after changing her name to Marilyn Monroe, rose to fame as the most famous Hollywood sex symbol of the 20th century. Monroe, who never knew her father, developed a special relationship with Skouras, and sometimes called him \"Papa Skouras\".\n\nDuring Skouras' tenure, the longest in the company's history, he worked to rescue the faltering movie industry from the lure of television. 20th Century Fox's advertising slogan, \"Movies are Better than Ever,\" gained credibility in 1953 when Spyros introduced CinemaScope in the studio's groundbreaking feature film \"The Robe.\" The wide screen CinemaScope increased the appeal of movies, helping them maintain audiences against television. This new technology soon became the standard of the whole industry.\n\nCost overruns on such films as \"Cleopatra\" (1963) resulted in a shareholder revolt demanding a change in management. Darryl F. Zanuck was elected president of the company while Skouras served as chairman of the company for several years.\n\nIn parallel with his work in the film industry, Skouras had invested in the shipping industry, where many Greek immigrants had interest. By the 1960s, his Prudential Lines owned seven ships, two tankers, and five cargo ships. In 1969, Prudential Lines bought out Grace Lines. In the last years of his life, Skouras disengaged from the movie world and spent more time on his various maritime projects. His son Spyros S. Skouras eventually took these over.\n\nHis son Plato A. Skouras (1930–2004) produced five films, including \"Francis of Assisi\" (1961) and \"Sierra Baron\" (1958).\n\nSkouras died from a heart attack at the age of 78.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280303", "title": "Batad", "text": "Batad\n\nBatad may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280305", "title": "Cave Run Lake", "text": "Cave Run Lake\n\nCave Run Lake, located south of Morehead, Kentucky, USA along Kentucky Route 801, is an , reservoir built by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers. The 148 ft (45 m), half-mile (800 m) dam (and outlet works) construction began in 1965 and was completed in 1973. Cave Run Lake is in the northern part of the Daniel Boone National Forest. Cave Run Lake provides flood protection to the lower Licking River valley, supplies water to the area's communities, improves the Licking River's water flow conditions, and offers a habitat for various species of fish and wildlife. It is in Rowan, Morgan, Menifee, and Bath counties.\n\nThe lake also provides various other recreational activities (swimming, boating & sailing, canoe and kayak, jet skiing, camping, hiking, well known for Mountain Bike trails, etc.)\n\nThere are two marinas that serve the lake, Scott's Creek Marina and Long Bow Marina.\n\nZilpo Road A scenic byway, is one road which provides access to the Bath County side of Cave Run Lake and is usually accessible throughout the year. The byway provides access to pioneer weapons hunting areas, a campground, and numerous hiking trails. Cave run also has designated beaches for recreational use. A small fee will allow you to enter the beaches and partake in swimming, hiking, and barbequing.\n\nCave run lake offers a wide variety of fishing opportunities. Cave run is home to a variety of aquatic species such as crappie, largemouth bass, smallmouth bass, musky, and various pan fish. Fishing tournaments are also held on the lake. Boat charters with a professional guide can be purchased on the lake. The Daniel Boone National Forest surrounding Cave Run holds many opportunities. Free campsites can be found in the state park and is first-come, first-served. The forest contains hiking trails and hunting is permitted during the regular season. Horseback riding is allowed on the trails.\n\nVisitors can visit Cave Run's sand beaches for a small entry fee. These beaches do not have a lifeguard on duty. The state park offers showers at the beach sites as well as restrooms. Designated barbeque sites can be found along the shoreline. Throughout certain spots of the land surrounding the lake, ATV's and other off-road vehicles are allowed.\n\nLodging is readily available around the lake. There are plenty of rental properties such as cabins and lake houses on the land. Many of the cabins available are just walking distance from the lake. The surrounding towns are filled with small shops and restaurants to visit. Cave Run has various marinas that offer boat storage and boat rentals. Skiing and tubing on the water is allowed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280311", "title": "Spider-Man: The Manga", "text": "Spider-Man: The Manga\n\nSpider-Man: The Manga is a Japanese manga illustrated by Ryoichi Ikegami which retold the story of Spider-Man in a Japanese setting. It was originally published in Japan from January 1970 to September 1971 in \"Monthly Shōnen Magazine\".\n\nA junior high school student named : A bright and intellectually-gifted, yet outcast and withdrawn teen, is bitten by a radioactive spider during a scientific demonstration, which imbues him with spider-like superhuman abilities, like the U.S. Spider-Man, Peter Parker. Yu faces Japanese versions of villains such as Electro, the Lizard, Mysterio, and the Kangaroo. The series also featured counterparts of Aunt May, named \"Mei\", and J. Jonah Jameson, who is the publisher of the newspaper where Yu is employed as a freelance photographer.\n\nInitially, Kōsei Ono wrote the stories. On completion of the sixth story, Kazumasa Hirai became the writer. Ikegami continued to provide the art. The first few stories featured analogues to several of Spider-Man's villains and supporting cast, while maintaining an altogether darker, grittier and moodier tone and atmosphere, compared to the original Spider-Man comics. The later Hirai-written stories deviated further from the source material, being more tonally mature, adult-oriented, violent, while including obscene content, \nsuch as profanity, sexual and gruesome imagery of a kind not seen in the original U.S. Spider-Man comics. The later stories involved less comedy, were more dramatic, and had more realistic art, reflecting Ikegami's later style.\n\nThe books were reprinted in their original format, with the original Japanese text, in 1974,1976,1996 and 2006. The covers were updated, with the first three reprints to feature a picture of Spider-Man holding a flower. This image was originally a foldout 1971 calendar included with the original monthly printings. A number on a bottom-left of the cover indicated the story arc reprinted within.\n\nThe English-language version of the series was reprinted by Marvel Comics across thirty-one issues from December 1997 to April 1999. Eight out of the thirteen Japanese stories in total were fully translated, with several edits to remove some of the violent scenes. The final issue, #31, began the translation of the ninth story and was left incomplete due to the title's cancellation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280318", "title": "Lake Lanier Islands", "text": "Lake Lanier Islands\n\nLake Lanier Islands is a resort complex on built on a small group of islands on Lake Lanier, the largest lake in Georgia, located 60 miles north of Atlanta, Georgia. The resort complex is a primary recreational destination for the northern Georgian.\n\nThe Lake Lanier islands were originally large hills near Gainesville. After the creation of Buford Dam and the flooding of part of the Chattahoochee River valley created Lake Lanier, the hills became the largest chain of islands in the lake. In 1957, The US Army Corps of Engineers leased the Lake Lanier islands to the Georgia Department of State Parks, which partnered with the newly created Lake Lanier Islands Development Authority (LLIDA) in 1962 to manage and develop a recreational venue for the citizens of Georgia to enjoy. Development included Harbor Landing boat docks, campgrounds, horse stables, beaches, a golf course and the Pine Isle Hotel. A water park opened in 1987. Events held at the complex include annual Independence Day fireworks, on the lake, full moon parties, and \"Magical Nights of Lights.\" The State of Georgia contracted with the KSL Corporation to take over the day-to-day management and operations of Lake Lanier Islands.\n\nIn August 2005, Virgil Williams, through his venture, Lake Lanier Islands Management Company, bought the resort complex from the KSL Corporation. The purchase was for 14.5 million dollars. Since purchasing the resort, the KLL Corporation has worked to improve the islands. After nearly 30 years of operation the original Pine Isle Resort was demolished.\n\nUnder the ownership of the Lake Lanier Islands Management Company, the property has received numerous upgrades and renovations. In 2008, it completed renovations at Legacy Lodge & Conference Center when the previous Emerald Point Hotel & Conference Center \"was completely rebuilt using only the shell of the original structure.\" In April 2014, Legacy Lodge opened a saltwater lounging pool, replacing their previous pool and hot tubs. In the summer of 2016, Legacy Lodge & Conference center, the hotel on Lanier Islands, underwent a 2 million dollar renovation. The upgrades included \"214 rooms now have new hardwood floors, artwork and decor with an outdoors theme, as well as new bedding, mini-refrigerators and Keurig coffee makers. Other upgrades include newly painted woodwork and ceilings throughout the hotel, new wallcoverings in guest rooms and corridors, new carpets in corridors and new lighting and window treatments.\"\n\nIn 2018 the Lake Lanier Islands Management Company made a deal with Jimmy Buffett's Margaritaville Development and SafeHarbor in order to invest millions of dollars into the island and theme park LanierWorld, and assume management.\n"}
{"id": "2280322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280322", "title": "Johann von Rist", "text": "Johann von Rist\n\nJohann von Rist (8 March 1607 – 31 August 1667) was a German poet and dramatist best known for the hymns he wrote.\n\nHe was born at Ottensen in Holstein-Pinneberg (today Hamburg) on 8 March 1607; the son of the Lutheran pastor of that place, Caspar Rist. He received his early training at the Gelehrtenschule des Johanneums in Hamburg and the Gymnasium Illustre in Bremen; he then studied theology at the University of Rinteln. \nUnder the influence of Josua Stegman there, his interest in hymn writing began. \nOn leaving Rinteln, he tutored the sons of a Hamburg merchant, accompanying them to the University of Rostock, where he himself studied Hebrew, mathematics, and medicine. \nDuring his time at Rostock, the Thirty Years War almost emptied the University, and Rist himself lay there for several weeks, suffering from pestilence.\n\nIn 1650, he became tutor in the house of Landschreiber Heinrich Sager at Heide, in Holstein. \nTwo years later (1635) he was appointed pastor of the village of Wedel on the Elbe. \nThe same year he married Elisabeth Stapel, sister of Franz Stapel, bailiff of nearby Pinneberg. They had 5 children, of whom 2 died early; Elisabeth died 1662. \nIn 1664, he married Anna Hagedorn, born Badenhop, widow of his friend Phillipp Hagedorn. He died in Wedel on 31 August 1667.\n\nRist first made his name known to the literary world by a drama, \"Perseus\" (1634), which he wrote while at Heide, and in the next succeeding years he produced a number of dramatic works of which the allegory \"Das friedewünschende Teutschland\" (1647) and \"Das friedejauchzende Teutschland\" (1653) (new ed. of both by H. M. Schletterer, 1864) are the most interesting. Rist soon became the central figure in a school of minor poets. The emperor Ferdinand III crowned him laureate in 1644, ennobled him in 1653, and invested him with the dignity of a Count Palatine, an honor which enabled him to the crown, and to gain numerous poets for the \"\" (Order of Elbe Swans), a literary and poetical society which he founded in 1660. He had already, in 1645, been admitted, under the name \"Daphnis aus Cimbrien\", to the literary order of Pegnitz, and in 1647 he became, as \"Der Rüstige\", a member of the Fruchtbringende Gesellschaft (\"Fruitbearing Society\").\n\nIt is, however, as a writer of church hymns that Rist is best known. Among these several are still retained in the evangelical hymn book: e.g. \"O Ewigkeit, du Donnerwort\" and \"Ermunt're dich, mein schwacher Geist\". Collections of his poems appeared under the titles \"Musa Teutonica\" (1634) and \"Himmlische Lieder\" (1643).\n\nJohann Sebastian Bach composed two cantatas on \"O Ewigkeit, du Donnerwort\": BWV 60 (1723) using the first verse of the hymn, and the chorale cantata BWV 20 (1724) based on the entire chorale.\n\n\"Jesu, der du meine Seele\", BWV 78 is another chorale cantata by Bach, based on the hymn with the same name by Rist.\n\nRist's hymn \"O Gottes Geist, mein Trost und Rat\" is sung to the tune of \"Komm, Heiliger Geist, Herre Gott\". Christiana Mariana von Ziegler included its ninth stanza in her libretto for Bach's cantata \"Er rufet seinen Schafen mit Namen\", BWV 175.\n\nRist's 1641/1642 hymn \"Ein trauiger Grabgesang\" is notable for being an early occurrence of the phrase \"God is dead\" in German culture, this time in an explicitly theistic, Protestant Christian context.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280323", "title": "Lenny (album)", "text": "Lenny (album)\n\nLenny is the sixth album and seventh recording by rock musician Lenny Kravitz, released in October 2001 through Virgin Records. It reached #12 on the \"Billboard\" 200 and #55 on the UK Albums Chart.\n\nThe lead single, \"Dig In\", which reached #31 in the United States, was the album's most successful song that helped Kravitz win his fourth consecutive Grammy Award in the Best Male Rock Vocal Performance, while the song \"If I Could Fall in Love\" was featured on the \"Blue Crush\" soundtrack and gave Kravitz yet another nomination in the aforementioned category in 2003.\n\nStephen Thomas Erlewine wrote for Allmusic that \"\"5\" gave Lenny Kravitz a career revival, thanks to a really big hit with \"Fly Away\", and he followed it with a hit, the cover of the Guess Who's \"American Woman\", which surely benefited from its presence on the blockbuster \"\". Then, he threw out \"Again\" as a new track for \"Greatest Hits\" (wh[ich] sold over 3,000,000 copies worldwide), setting the stage for the return to form that's \"Lenny\".\" Kravitz has joined the ranks of Michael Jackson, Prince, George Michael, writing, arranging, producing and performing every song on the album, creating a minimalist one-man show of acoustic and electric guitars, live percussion and drum programming.\n\nThe opening track, \"Battlefield of Love\", is built around a rudimentary guitar riff reminiscent of Grand Funk Railroad—on which Lenny incorporates a wah-wah solo into the mix. Fourth single \"If I Could Fall in Love\" and first single (described as \"a gritty rocker\" by Slant) \"Dig In\" make use of electric guitar work, with simple structures and pop melodies that have become Kravitz staples. Slant also said \"'Dig In' evokes Sheryl Crow at times—only with slightly less keen lyrical content.\" \"Yesterday Is Gone\" was said by \"Entertainment Weekly\" to have a \"Beatles feel, but [it] no longer feels like [Lenny's] consciously trying to rewrite 'Tomorrow Never Knows'.\" Slant elaborated further, \"Kravitz's neo-hippie sentiments abound on tracks like 'God Save Us All' and 'Stillness of Heart' (\"I'm feeling incomplete/What am I buying/My soul is crying\").\" \"The stripped-down approach works well throughout the plaintive ballad 'Believe in Me', which sounds like a low-tech Seal song. The amusingly Chuck Berry-ish story line of the hard-charging 'Bank Robber Man', is based on a real-life incident in which the star was mistaken for a criminal and busted by Miami police officers last year. \"Do you think that I'm the one that did it/Just because I'm tan?/Just then the officer at hand said/'I don't give a damn that you are in a rock and roll band,' \" Kravitz sings, and for once the social commentary doesn't feel contrived.\"\n\nInitial critical response to \"Lenny\" was positive. At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the album has received an average score of 69, based on 12 reviews, which indicates \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nStephen Thomas Erlewine wrote a positive review for Allmusic, commenting that \"There may not be singles that are as immediately grabbing as \"It Ain't Over 'til It's Over\", \"Let Love Rule\" and \"Are You Gonna Go My Way\", but there are no dull spots, either, and this easily stands alongside his first three albums as a set of classy, near-irresistible pop for listeners weaned on classic and college rock, which is a wholly welcome surprise.\" Tom Sinclair wrote for \"Entertainment Weekly\" that \"While it's hard not to wish that Kravitz's music was just a few degrees better than it actually is, he has improved over the years.\" Graham Reed of \"Drowned in Sound\" wrote a negative review, stating \"If you love music, take a hammer, and smash every copy you can find. You’ll be doing the world a favour. This is the exact antithesis of everything music stands for. Its stale, unoriginal, formulaic, repetitive, and shows as much originality and passion as a tribute band. There’s thousands of musicians out there with more originality and passion out there than Lenny. This is nothing more than a self-indulgent, artistic void of turd poured into plastic\".\n\nSal Cinquemani wrote for \"Slant Magazine\" that \"the singer's classic rock influence (and devoted recreation of it) is once again evident on Lenny, with tracks like \"Yesterday Is Gone\" and \"A Million Miles Away\" recalling the crisp harmonies of John Lennon and the electric guitar riffs of Jimi Hendrix.\" \"Billboard\" wrote that \"It's an invigorating, electric blend that is pushed over the top by lyrics that are smart and spiritual without ever pressing too hard.\" \"Blender\" commented about \"its 12 tracks\", writing that \"they are unusually raucous and raw, as Kravitz finds a comfort zone with turbocharged punk and arena rock.\" \"Rolling Stone\" perceived that \"Nothing on \"Lenny\" can match \"Again\", but he gets close sometimes, lumbering with a meatball sense of purpose that's all his own.\" While \"Q\" magazine concluded that \"As before, it's a heady swirl of rock, soul and hippy lyrics. However, it feels fantastic and, unless the record company is snoring soundly, it's full of hits.\"\n\nAll songs composed by Lenny Kravitz except where noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280324", "title": "Dueñas", "text": "Dueñas\n\nDueñas or Duenas may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280325", "title": "Metabolic disorder", "text": "Metabolic disorder\n\nA metabolic disorder can happen when abnormal chemical reactions in the body alter the normal metabolic process. It can also be defined as inherited single gene anomaly, most of which are autosomal recessive.\n\nSome of the symptoms that can occur with metabolic disorders are lethargy, weight loss, jaundice and seizures. The symptoms expressed would vary with the type of metabolic disorder. There are four categories of symptoms: acute symptoms, late-onset acute symptoms, progressive general symptoms and permanent symptoms.\n\nInherited metabolic disorders are one cause of metabolic disorders, and occur when a defective gene causes an enzyme deficiency. These diseases, of which there are many subtypes, are known as inborn errors of metabolism. Metabolic diseases can also occur when the liver or pancreas do not function properly.\n\nThe principal classes of metabolic disorders are:\n\nMetabolic disorders can be present at birth, and many can be identified by routine screening. If a metabolic disorder is not identified early, then it may be diagnosed later in life, when symptoms appear. Specific blood and DNA tests can be done to diagnose genetic metabolic disorders.\n\nThe gut microbiota, which is a population of microorganisms that live in the human digestive system, also has an important part in metabolism and generally has a positive function for its host. In terms of pathophysiological/mechanism interactions, an abnormal gut microbioma can play a role in metabolic disorder related obesity.\n\nMetabolic disorder screening can be done in newborns via the following methods:\n\nMetabolic disorders can be treatable by nutrition management, especially if detected early. It is important for dieticians to have knowledge of the genotype to, therefore, create a treatment that will be more effective for the individual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280332", "title": "Maacah", "text": "Maacah\n\nMaacah (Codex Alexandrinus: Maacha, KJV: Maachah, sometimes spelled Maakah, Hebrew: מעכה \"ma`akhah\" \"Crushed\") is a non-gender-specific personal name used in the Bible to refer to a number of people.\n\n\nThe name is also used to refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280335", "title": "Hydrothorax", "text": "Hydrothorax\n\nHydrothorax is a type of pleural effusion in which transudate accumulates in the pleural cavity. This condition is most likely to develop secondary to congestive heart failure, following an increase in hydrostatic pressure within the lungs. More rarely, hydrothorax can develop in 10% of patients with ascites which is called hepatic hydrothorax. It is often difficult to manage in end-stage liver failure and often fails to respond to therapy.\n\nPleural effusions may also develop following the accumulation of other fluids within the pleural cavity; if the fluid is blood it is known as hemothorax (as in major chest injuries), if the fluid is pus it is known as pyothorax (resulting from chest infections), and if the fluid is lymph it is known as chylothorax (resulting from rupture of the thoracic duct).\n\nTreatment of hydrothorax is difficult for several reasons. The underlying condition needs to be corrected; however, often the source of the hydrothorax is end stage liver disease and correctable only by transplant. Chest tube placement should not occur. Other measures such as a TIPS procedure are more effective as they treat the cause of the hydrothorax, but have complications such as worsened hepatic encephalopathy.\n"}
{"id": "2280337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280337", "title": "Lemery", "text": "Lemery\n\nLemery may refer to:\n\nTwo places in the Philippines:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280342", "title": "World Poker Tour season 2 results", "text": "World Poker Tour season 2 results\n\nBelow are the results of season two of the World Poker Tour television series (2003–2004).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDuring season 2 of the WPT there was one special event that did not apply to the Player of the Year standings:\n"}
{"id": "2280345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280345", "title": "1986 in baseball", "text": "1986 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280346", "title": "Berghem", "text": "Berghem\n\nBerghem (older spelling: Berchem) is a town in the Dutch municipality of Oss. It is located about 4 km northeast of Oss itself.\n\nUntil 1994, Berghem was a separate municipality.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280347", "title": "Ohio State Route 103", "text": "Ohio State Route 103\n\nState Route 103 (SR 103) is a state route that runs between Bluffton and Willard in the US state of Ohio. Most of the route is a rural two-lane highway and passes through both farmland and residential properties. In Bluffton the route has two interchanges with Interstate 75 (I–75).\n\nThe highway was first signed in 1923 on much the same alignment as today. In both 1935 and 1938 the route was extended east. The entire route was paved by 1939. Some of the highway replaced U.S. Route 25 (US 25), in 1964. SR 103 replaced the SR 194 and SR 298 designation of the highway from Chatfield to Willard, in 1969.\n\nSR 103 begins at an interchange with I–75, on the south side of Bluffton. The route heads northwest as a two-lane highway crossing over a railroad track. The road passes through residential properties, before turning northeast towards downtown Bluffton. In downtown Bluffton the highway passes on the northwest side of Bluffton University, before the road turn toward the southeast. As the route heads southeast it passes over the railroad track again, followed by a curve due east. After the curve is the second interchange with I–75, in a commercial area of Bluffton. The highway passes the Bluffton Airport and leaves the village of Bluffton. East of Bluffton the route passes through farmland and has an intersection with SR 235, in rural Hancock County. The route enters Arlington, passing through mostly residential properties. In the center of the village SR 103 has an intersection with U.S. Route 68 (US 68).\nEast of the intersection with US 68, SR 103 has an at-grade railroad crossing, before leaving Arlington. The highway passes through farmland and begins a concurrency with SR 37, on the south side of Mount Blanchard. The concurrency heads north through Mount Blanchard, before SR 103 turns due east, just north of the town. SR 103 heads east, until a sharp turn due north. Followed by a second turn due east. As the highway nears Carey it begins to curve northeast. The route enters Carey at en interchange with US 23 and SR 15. SR 103 continues northeast concurrent with US 23, passing residential properties on its way to downtown. In downtown Carey SR 103 leaves US 23 and heads southeast concurrent with SR 199. The concurrency passes more residential properties and has an at-grade railroad. The route leaves SR 199 heading due east and leaves the town of Carey soon after.\n\nEast of Carey, SR 103 heads east passes farmland, with some woodland. The route has a T-intersection with SR 53, near Tymochtee. SR 103 turns northeast onto SR 53, until SR 103 turns due east. The highway heads east through mostly farmland, before entering Sycamore. On the east side of Sycamore SR 103, begins a concurrency with SR 67. In the center of the Village SR 67 turns due north onto SR 231, with SR 103 still heading east, concurrent with SR 231. The concurrency leaves Sycamore and enter rural Wyandot County, where SR 231 leaves SR 103 heading due south. SR 103 crosses into Crawford County. The highway heads towards Chatfield, passing through a very short concurrency with SR 100 and an intersection with SR 19.\n\nIn Chatfield SR 103, turns northeast concurrent with SR 4. The concurrency passes through the center of the village, before SR 103 turns due east, leaving SR 4. The route heads due east toward New Washing, passing through farmland. On the west side of New Washington the highway curves southeast, before curving back due east, passing through residential properties. In downtown the route turns due south, passing commercial properties and having an intersection with SR 602. At the intersection with SR 602, SR 103 turns southeast and SR 602 continues due south. The roadway passes more residential properties, before leaving New Washington. The route heads east through farmland, having an intersection with SR 39, before turning due north in rural Crawford County. The highway heads due north, until the Crawford–Huron county line, where SR 103 turns due east. SR 103 heads east as the county line, before turning due north towards Willard.\n\nSR 103 enters Willard from the south, passing the Willard Municipal Airport and passing through commercial properties. The road has an intersection with US 224, before heading through residential properties. The route enters downtown Willard as Main Street and makes a sharp turn due east onto Tiffin Street. Tiffin Street heads east through residential properties having an at-grade railroad crossing and an intersection with SR 99. East of the intersection with SR 99, SR 103 has an intersection with SR 598, before leaving Willard. East of Willard the highway passes through farmland, having an intersection with SR 61. The intersection with SR 61 is the western terminus of SR 103.\n\nThe section of SR 103 that is concurrent with US 23 is part of the National Highway System, a system of routes important for the nation's economy, mobility and defense.\n\nSR 103 was originally signed in 1923, between Bluffton and Carey. In 1935 the route was extended east to an intersection with SR 53 near Tymochtee. The route was extended east to an intersection with SR 4 near Chatfield in 1938. The whole route was paved by 1939. Between 1962 and 1964, I–75 was built and open between Bluffton and Cygnet. US 25 ran concurrent with I–75, leaving SR 103 to replace US 103 through the south side of Bluffton. By 1969, its eastern terminus was extended to its current location, replacing the now defunct route numbers 194 and 298. No significant changes have taken place to this state route since 1969.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280351", "title": "1830 in archaeology", "text": "1830 in archaeology\n\n1830 in archaeology\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280352", "title": "Arthur Mitchell (dancer)", "text": "Arthur Mitchell (dancer)\n\nArthur Mitchell (March 27, 1934 – September 19, 2018) was an American ballet dancer, choreographer, and founder and director of ballet companies. In 1955, he was the first African-American dancer with the New York City Ballet, where he was promoted to principal dancer the following year and danced in major roles until 1966. He then founded ballet companies in Spoleto, Washington, D.C., and Brazil. In 1969, he founded a training school and the first African-American classical ballet company, Dance Theatre of Harlem. Among other awards, Mitchell was recognized as a MacArthur Fellow, inducted into the National Museum of Dance's Mr. & Mrs. Cornelius Vanderbilt Whitney Hall of Fame, and received the United States National Medal of Arts and a Fletcher Foundation fellowship.\n\nMitchell was one of four siblings, the son of a building superintendent, and grew up in the streets of Harlem, New York. Forced at the age of 12 to assume financial responsibility for his family in the wake of his father's incarceration, Mitchell worked numerous jobs, including shoe-shining, mopping floors, newspaper delivery, and work in a meat shop. Despite his duties, Mitchell became involved with street gangs, though this did not ultimately deter him from finding success.\n\nAs a teenager, Mitchell was encouraged by a guidance counselor to apply for admission to the High School of Performing Arts. Upon being accepted he decided to work towards having a career in classical ballet. Following his graduation in the early 1950s, he won a dance award and scholarship to study at the School of American Ballet, the school affiliated with the New York City Ballet. In 1954, following his 1952 Broadway debut in the opera \"Four Saints in Three Acts\", Mitchell would return to Broadway to perform in the Harold Arlen musical \"House of Flowers\", alongside Diahann Carroll, Geoffrey Holder, Alvin Ailey, Carmen de Lavallade, and Pearl Bailey.\n\nIn 1955 Mitchell made his debut as the first African American with the New York City Ballet (NYCB), performing in \"Western Symphony\". Rising to the position of principal dancer with the company in 1956, he performed in all the major ballets in its repertoire, including \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"The Nutcracker\", \"Bugaku\", \"Agon\", and \"Arcade\".\n\nChoreographer and director of the NYCB George Balanchine created the pas de deux in \"Agon\" especially for Mitchell and the white Southern ballerina Diana Adams. Audience members initially complained about partnering Mitchell with a white woman, but Balanchine refused to change the pairing. Although Mitchell danced this role with white partners throughout the world, he could not perform it on commercial television in the United States until 1968, when the performance aired on Johnny Carson's \"The Tonight Show\".\n\nMitchell left the New York City Ballet in 1966 to appear in several Broadway shows, and helped found ballet companies in Spoleto, Washington, D.C., and Brazil, where he directed a dance company. The company he founded in Brazil was the National Ballet Company of Brazil.\n\nAfter the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in 1968, Mitchell returned to Harlem, where he was determined to provide opportunities in dance for the children in that community. A year later, he and his teacher, Karel Shook, inaugurated a classical ballet school. Mitchell had $25,000 of his own money to start the school. About a year later he received $315,000 in a matching funds grant from the Ford Foundation. The Dance Theatre of Harlem (DTH) was born in 1969 with 30 children in a church basement in a community where resources of talent and creative energy were virtually untapped. Two months later, Mitchell had attracted 400 youngsters to attend classes. Two years later they presented their first productions as a professional company. Mitchell used his personal savings to convert a garage into the company's home.\n\nIn Harlem, DTH created an explosion of professional opportunity in dance, music, and other related theater activities. The school has an outstanding number of former students who have been successfully engaged in careers as dancers and musicians, as technicians in production, stagecraft, and wardrobe, and in instruction and arts administration. With this success, DTH challenged the classical dance world to review its stereotypes and revise its boundaries.\n\nThe Arthur Mitchell Collection is held at the Rare Book & Manuscript Library, Columbia University. Arthur Mitchell: Harlem's Ballet Trailblazer, an exhibition celebrating his life and career, opened at the Wallach Art Gallery at Columbia on January 12, 2018. The exhibition Web site contains numerous images and documents from the collection, as well as a timeline of Mitchell's career, a repertory list for the Dance Theatre of Harlem, and original essays.\n\nMitchell received numerous awards in recognition of his groundbreaking work and achievements, including:\n\nIn addition, Mitchell received honorary doctorates from numerous leading universities, including University of North Carolina School of the Arts (1985), Juilliard School (1990), Hamilton College, Brown University (1996), City College of New York, Harvard University, The New School for Social Research, Williams College, Yale University (2001), Southern Methodist University (2009) and Columbia University (2016). He also received awards from the City of New York and community organizations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280362", "title": "St Albans City railway station", "text": "St Albans City railway station\n\nSt Albans City railway station, also known simply as St Albans, is one of two railway stations serving the city of St Albans in Hertfordshire, England (the other being ). The 'City' station is the larger of the two, as it is on the better-connected Midland Main Line from London St Pancras, being served by Govia Thameslink trains on the Thameslink route.\n\nThe station was built by the Midland Railway in 1868, on its extension to St Pancras. St Albans was famous for producing watercress, which was sent in lots to London and Manchester.\n\nThe other station, , was built by the London and North Western Railway in 1858. There was originally a further station called \"London Road\", built by the Hatfield and St Albans Railway in 1863 to connect with the Great Northern Railway.\n\n\nThe station has four platforms, two for each direction: one \"fast\" and one \"slow\". The main entrance, ticket office, multi-storey car park, taxi rank and bus connections are on Station Way, east of the station. There is a second exit to the west, to a small surface car park off Ridgmont Road and Victoria Street, located at the original entrance to the station. A larger surface car park to the east of the railway lines gained planning permission in 2003, in connection with a large residential development.\n\nThere are ticket barriers at both entrances.\n\nThe station participates in the Plusbus scheme where combined train and bus tickets can be bought at a reduced price.\n\nThere is also a newsagent and refreshment shops. Just outside the station there is a flower stall.\n\nSt Albans South signal box has been restored at the station and has been opened as a visitor attraction by the St Albans Signal Box Preservation Trust.\n\nAs of May 2018 the typical off-peak service in trains per hour (tph) is: \nThe service in the late nights is a Thameslink service from Bedford to Three Bridges stopping at all stations to London St Pancras International\n"}
{"id": "2280366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280366", "title": "The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires", "text": "The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires\n\nThe Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires is a 1974 martial arts horror film. The film is set in 1804 where seven vampires clad in gold masks who were resurrected by Count Dracula, played by John Forbes-Robertson. Peter Cushing as Professor Van Helsing is hired later in 1904 after giving a lecture at a Chinese University to take on the vampires. The film is a British-Hong Kong co-production between Hammer Film Productions and Shaw Brothers Studio.\n\nThe film was shot between October 22 and December 11, 1973 at Shaw Brothers Studios in Hong Kong, where Chang Cheh was hired to direct further martial arts scenes for the films release in the East. The film was first released in Hong Kong and then in the United Kingdom with a shorter runtime. On its release in the United States, the film was truncated further and titled The 7 Brothers Meet Dracula. The film was not a financial success.\n\nIn Transylvania in 1804, a lone figure makes his way through the countryside and into the towering Castle Dracula, where he summons Dracula. The figure announces, in his own language, that his name is Kah, a Taoist monk and the High Priest of the Temple of the Seven Golden Vampires in rural China. He goes on to tell the Count that the Seven Golden Vampires' power is fading and he needs him to restore them to their former glory. Dracula considers the offer and accepts on one condition: that he uses Kah's body to escape his castle, which has become his prison. Despite Kah's pleas for mercy, the vampire displaces himself into Kah's body and then triumphantly leaves the tomb for China.\n\nIn 1904 Professor Van Helsing (Peter Cushing) gives a lecture at a Chungking university on Chinese vampire legends. He speaks of an unknown rural village that has been terrorised by a cult of seven known as the Seven Golden Vampires for many years. A farmer who had lost his wife to the vampires trekked his way to the temple of the vampires and battled them. He was unsuccessful, as his wife was killed in the fight, but in the chaos he grabbed a medallion from around one of the vampire's necks, which he saw as the vampires' life source. The farmer fled the temple, but the High Priest sent the vampires and their former victims after him. About to be cornered, the farmer placed the medaillon around a small statue of a jade Buddha before the vampires and their army of undead caught up with him and killed him. One of the vampires spied the medallion around the Buddha and went over to collect it. However, the moment that the vampire touched the Buddha, the creature was destroyed in flames.\n\nVan Helsing goes on to say that he is positive that the village still exists and is terrorized by the six remaining vampires; he is only unsure of where the village lies. Most of the students disbelieve the story and leave, but a student named Hsi Ching (David Chiang) visits Van Helsing and informs him that the farmer from the story was his grandfather. He proves it by producing the dead vampire's bat-like medallion, and asks Van Helsing if he would be willing to travel to the village and destroy the vampire menace. Van Helsing agrees and embarks with his son Leyland (Robin Stewart), Hsi Ching, and his seven kung fu-trained siblings on a dangerous journey, funded by a wealthy widow named Vanessa Buren (Julie Ege), whom Leyland and two of Ching's siblings saved from an attack by the tongs.\n\nOn the journey, they are ambushed by three of the six remaining vampires in a cave, along with their army of undead. The group are quickly engaged in battle and soon kill the three vampires. The remaining three retreat, taking their army of undead with them. The following morning, the party reaches the village, partly ruined but still populated, and prepares to make their final stand. They use wooden stakes as barriers and dig a large trench around them filled with flammable liquid.\n\nIn the temple that evening, Dracula, still disguised as Kah, calls on the remaining vampires to kill Van Helsing and his party once and for all. The vampires reach the village, and soon Van Helsing's group once again do battle with the last of the golden vampires and their army of undead, resulting in nearly all of their party and the villagers being massacred. During the fight, Vanessa is bitten by one of the vampires and quickly becomes one herself. She bites Ching, and knowing what he has to do, Ching throws himself and Vanessa onto a wooden stake, impaling them both. Elsewhere, the last remaining vampire captures Ching's sister Mai Kwei (Shih Szu) and takes her back to the temple in order to be drained of her blood. Leyland steals a horse from one of the dead vampires and pursues. The army of undead defeated, Van Helsing and his remaining party follow to help Leyland at the temple.\n\nHaving reached the temple, the vampire straps Mai Kwei to one of the altars. It is about to drain her blood when Leyland intervenes. Just before Leyland is about to be drained, Van Helsing and his group burst in, and Van Helsing destroys the last Golden Vampire. The survivors depart from the temple, save for Van Helsing, who feels a familiar presence and comes to face Dracula in Kah's body. Discovered, Dracula reveals his true form and attacks Van Helsing. In the ensuing struggle, Van Helsing succeeds in stabbing Dracula with a silver spear through the heart, causing the Count to turn to dust.\n\n\n\"The Legend of the Seven Golden Vampires\" began development due Don Houghton's father-in-law knowing Hong Kong film producer Run Run Shaw. Houghton flew to Hong Kong discuss a project with Run Run Shaw and his brother Runme Shaw who agreed to finance 50% of the film.\n\n\"The Legend of the Seven Golden Vampires\" was filmed between October 22 and December 11, 1973 at Shaw Brothers Studios in Hong Kong, with mountain scenes shot on Kowloon Peak. The Shaw Brothers were not happy with how Roy Ward Baker was directing the film and had martial arts sequences choreographed by one of their studios directors, leading to a second unit set up that was handled by Chang Cheh. Chang Cheh added scenes that led to Eastern version of the film to run at 110 minutes. Renee Glynee who was the continuity supervisor for the film stated that working with the Shaw Brothers Studios was \"a big experience\" due to language differences and that director Roy Ward Baker was screaming at the Chinese actors to stop spitting on set.\n\n\"The Legend of the Seven Golden Vampires\" was first released in Hong Kong on July 11, 1974. The film received its premier in London on August 29, 1974 at the Warner Rendezvous Theatre and had general release in the United Kingdom on October 6, 1974 by Columbia/Warner Distributors. The American version cuts out 20 minutes of the film's footage and soundtrack and loops several remaining scenes to fill the running time.\n\nFor the films release in the United States, it received a Sneak Peak screening in November 1975 at the Famous Monsters of Filmland Convention in New York City which included attendance by Michael Carreras and Peter Cushing. It received wider distribution in the United States in June 1979 by Dynamite Entertainment with a 75 minute running time and re-titled to \"The 7 Brothers Meet Dracula\". \nUnder the guidance of Michael Carreras, an original edit of the film eliminated Dracula, but Carreras stated that the film was too short so Dracula's character was re-instated. In the film Dracula has the ability to assume another person's appearance, an ability that was removed from Houghton's script for \"The Satanic Rites of Dracula\", and re-used in this film.\n\nThe film was not a box office success. There was a planned sequel to be titled \"Kali, Devil Bride of Dracula\", which was to be filmed in India, but it was never made.\n\nThe American DVD from Anchor Bay Entertainment features both the original unedited \"The Legend of the 7 Golden Vampires\" version and the later edited \"The 7 Brothers Meet Dracula\" version. The DVD also features a recording of Peter Cushing telling the story of the film with music and sound effects, which was released as an LP record at the time of the film's release.\n\nIn April 2019, Scream Factory released a Blu-ray featuring a new 2K scan of the film\n\nIn contemporary reviews, the \"London Times\" who found that the film \"would be tedious if it were not for the distinguished presence of Peter Cushing as a Dracula-hunter and for some advanced exercises in the practice of vampire disintegration\" \"Cinema TV Today\" found that \"it is a pity that this blend of two popular genres could not have been more carefully thought out.\" Verina Glaessner wrote in the \"Monthly Film Bulletin\" found the film to be a \"fascinating failure\" noting that \"part of the film's failure is due to an equivocal attitude towards its subject, and part of a misunderstanding of the role that hand-to-hand combat plays in Chinese films.\"\n\nFrom retrospective reviews, Keith Phipps of \"The A.V. Club\" called the film \"flawed\" but \"enjoyable,\" adding, \"It's pretty much as ridiculous as it sounds, but there's something inherently entertaining about make-up-splattered vampires, distinguished British actors, and martial artists squaring off in periodic eruptions of kung-fu fighting.\" Phil Chandler of \"DVD Cult\" wrote, \"Is it the best Hammer horror film ever made? Hell no. Is it the best Hammer film of the seventies? Hell yeah.\"\nGraeme Clark of \"The Spinning Image\" said, \"Cushing, in his last Hammer Dracula film, is as commanding as ever, but he and his Western companions are pretty disposable to the plot until the end, where the professor is left alone with the Count, who is hardly needed. Nevertheless, this last Hammer vampire outing has a real energy, in spite of being a mishmash, and is different enough to get by on sheer novelty alone.\" Writing in \"The Zombie Movie Encyclopedia\", academic Peter Dendle called the raising of the undead army \"one of the most visually spectacular in zombie cinema\". Glenn Kay, who wrote \"\", called the film \"boisterous, action-packed, and very likeable\".\n\nRoy Ward Baker later spoke about the film, declaring that \"the whole set-up was slip-shod, and nobody knew what anyone was doing.\" and that the film was \"a failure, an absolute failure.\" Michael Carreras later said this \"wasn't such a good idea\" although he felt \"some of the film is quite good.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280370", "title": "1987 in baseball", "text": "1987 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280392", "title": "1988 in baseball", "text": "1988 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280396", "title": "Gum over platinum", "text": "Gum over platinum\n\nGum over platinum is a historical chemical photographic process, which was commonly used in art photography. It is a very complex process, in which a specially treated platinum print photograph is coated with washes of gum arabic, then re-exposed to the same photographic negative. The finished process results in a sepia toned print, and is said to impart added luminosity and depth. It is sometimes called \"pigment over platinum\".\n\nTo sensitize the gum arabic it must first be placed in contact with ammonium or potassium dichromate. Gum arabic is not photosensitive by itself. To clear the chromic acid, the print is washed in 1% potassium metabisulfite after proper development in water. Interested individuals should read up on the process before attempting, as the chromic acids are very dangerous to work with.\n\nThe mechanics of the gum portion is not entirely known; what occurs is the exposed gum is hardened and becomes water-insoluble. Upon washing, the unexposed portions wash away, leaving the white paper exposed.\n\nThe technique is related to platinum printing.\n"}
{"id": "2280398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280398", "title": "Ohio State Route 587", "text": "Ohio State Route 587\n\nState Route 587 (SR 587) is a north–south state route in the northwestern quadrant of the U.S. state of Ohio. The highway's southern terminus is at SR 53 in the census-designated place of McCutchenville about southeast of New Riegel. Its northern terminus is at a T-intersection with SR 18 in the southeastern corner of the city of Fostoria.\n\nSR 587 is located in the extreme northern portion of Wyandot County and the southwestern quadrant of Seneca County. This highway is not included as a component of the National Highway System, a network of highways deemed most important for the country's economy, mobility and defense.\n\nSR 587 was designated in 1937. The highway originally consisted of today's Wyandot County Road 35 from SR 67 approximately southwest of Sycamore to the intersection marking SR 587's southern terminus at SR 53 in McCutchenville and the entirety of the current SR 587. In 1965, the portion of SR 587 southeast of McCutchenville was removed from the state highway system. Jurisdiction of this stretch of roadway was transferred to Wyandot County, who then designated it as County Road 35.\n"}
{"id": "2280407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280407", "title": "Carl Ludwig Christian Rümker", "text": "Carl Ludwig Christian Rümker\n\nCarl Ludwig Christian Rümker (28 May 1788 – 21 December 1862) was a German astronomer.\n\nRümker was born in Burg Stargard, in Mecklenburg, Germany, the son of J. F. Rümker, a court-councillor. He showed an aptitude for mathematics and studied at the Builders' Academy, Berlin, graduating in 1807 as a master builder. Instead of a career in building, he taught mathematics in Hamburg until 1809 when he went to England.\n\nRümker served as a midshipman in the British East India Company and then in the British merchant navy from 1811 until 1813. In July 1813 he was seized by a pressgang and joined the Royal Navy. He served in the Royal Navy as a schoolmaster until 1817 on \"HMS Benbow\", \"Montague\" and \"Albion\" taking part in the expedition to Algiers in 1816 whilst on the \"Albion\". In 1817 he met Austrian astronomer Baron Franz Xaver von Zach, who influenced Rümker to study astronomy. Rümker was director of the school of navigation at Hamburg from 1819 until 1820.\n\nIn 1821 Rümker went to New South Wales as astronomer at the observatory built at Parramatta by Sir Thomas Brisbane. James Dunlop was second assistant. Rümker was awarded the silver medal of the Royal Astronomical Society together with £100, for his re-discovery of Comet Encke on 2 June 1822 and also received the gold medal of the Institut de France. \n\nIn June 1823 having fallen out with Brisbane he left the observatory. He had been granted of land on the west side of the Nepean River on the assurance that he would devote his time to scientific pursuits. Brisbane in a dispatch to Henry Bathurst, 3rd Earl Bathurst in November 1823 requested that the grant should not be confirmed beyond because Rümker had \"completely broken\" his promise. Bathurst, however, refused Brisbane's request, realizing that this would be a case of one man's word against another's if it were further investigated. After Brisbane's departure Rümker was placed in charge of the observatory by the government in May 1826, Rümker being the first to hold the title of government astronomer. It was intended that Rümker should measure the arc of the meridian; however it would have been necessary to obtain instruments from London and Rümker left the colony in January 1829. \n\nThe results of his observations at Parramatta were published in Part III of the \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\" for 1829 and in the Royal Astronomical Society's \"Memoirs\", Vol. III. Rümker also contributed an article to the \"Geographical Memoirs\" of New South Wales, edited by Barron Field, the first collection of scientific papers published in Australia. While in England, Rümker quarrelled with James South, president of the Royal Astronomical Society, who dismissed Rümker from British government service.\n\nRümker returned to Europe in 1830 and took charge of the new Hamburg Observatory after the death of Johann Georg Repsold in 1830. His chief work was concerned with the cataloging of stars: a preliminary catalogue of the stars of the Southern Hemisphere was published in 1832 at Hamburg, and from 1846 to 1852 he published his great catalogue of 12,000 stars. He served as the director of \"Hamburger Sternwarte\" then located at Stadtwall and funded by the city of Hamburg as Christian Karl Ludwig Rümker from 1833 to 1857.\n\nIn 1857, Rümker resided at Lisbon, Portugal, where he died in 1862. His son was also an astronomer, Georg Friedrich Wilhelm Rümker, who was born in 1832, at Hamburg. He took over as director of Hamburger Sternwarte in 1857, where he served until his death in 1900. The Hamburger Sternwarte at Millerntor site was demolished when the observatory moved to Bergedorf under the direction of Richard Schorr for better astronomical seeing (the telescopes were moved), and the area eventually became the location of the Hamburg Museum. From 1901 to 1922 the new Hamburg observatory at Bergedorf renewed the observation of Rümker's catalog with its 12,000 stars. The catalog \"Carl Rümkers Hamburger Sternverzeichnis 1845.0\" was published in 1923.\n\nThe lunar massif Mons Rümker is named for him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280408", "title": "1903 in archaeology", "text": "1903 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1903 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280409", "title": "1989 in baseball", "text": "1989 in baseball\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280414", "title": "Chylothorax", "text": "Chylothorax\n\nA chylothorax is an accumulation of lymphatic fluid in the space surrounding the lung (pleural space). Lymph formed in the digestive system is called chyle and accumulates in the pleural space due to either disruption or obstruction of the thoracic duct. In people on a normal diet, this fluid collection can sometimes be identified by its turbid, milky white appearance, since chyle contains triglycerides. It is important to distinguish a chylothorax from a pseudochylothorax (a fluid collection in the pleural space that is high in cholesterol), which has a similar appearance, but is caused by more chronic inflammatory processes, and requires a different treatment. \n\nChylothorax is a rare but serious condition. It results from leakage of lymph fluid from the thoracic duct or one of its tributaries. There are many treatments, both surgical and conservative. About 2-3% of all fluid collections surrounding the lungs (pleural effusions) are chylothoraces.\n\nThe symptoms of a chylothorax depend its size and the underlying cause. A small chylothorax may not cause any symptoms and only be detected on a chest X-ray performed for another reason. A large chylothorax may lead to breathlessness or a feeling of pressure in the chest, caused by fluid restricting the expansion of the lungs, although large chylothoraces may remain asymptomatic if the chylothorax has accumulated slowly, as the lungs may have had time to become used to the pressure. Fever or chest pain are not usually associated with chylothorax, as chyle does not generate inflammation by itself. \n\nOn examination, chylothorax may lead to reduced breath sounds on the affected side, associated with a dull sound when the chest is tapped or percussed. In cases of postoperative chylothorax, the first sign may be persistent drainage from intercostal drains. Large chylothoraces may cause signs related to the loss of nutrients, including features of malnutrition or decreased ability to fight infections. Rapidly accumulating chylothoraces can cause a sudden drop in blood volume, leading to low blood pressure.\n\nThere are three main types of chylothorax: traumatic, non-traumatic, and idiopathic. Historically the most common form of chylothorax was non-traumatic, but traumatic chylothoraces now represent the majority of cases, with most arising as postoperative complications of surgery. The most common cause of non-traumatic chylothoraces is cancer. Chylothoraces can also be classified as low- or high-output based on the rate of chyle accumulation: low-output chylothoraces accumulate <500 mL of chyle per 24 hours, while high-output chylothoraces accumulate >1000 mL per 24 hours.\n\nMalignancies are the most frequent cause of non-traumatic chylothorax. Cancers like chronic lymphocytic leukemia, lung cancer, lymphoma, Kaposi sarcoma, metastatic carcinoma or esophageal cancer are potential causes of chylothorax. Infectious causes are also observed, most often in developing countries. The most common cause of an infectious chylothorax is a complication of tuberculous lymphadenitis. Other possible causative infections include aortitis, histoplasmosis, and filariasis. Chylothorax can also be congenital, and may co-occur with other lymphatic malformations like lymphangiectasis and lymphangiomatosis. Other conditions like tuberous sclerosis, congenital heart disease, trisomy 21 (Down syndrome), Noonan syndrome, or Turner syndrome (missing X chromosome) are also possible causes of congenital chylothorax. Other, more rare causes of congenital chylothorax include Castleman's disease, yellow nail syndrome, Waldenström's macroglobulinemia, sarcoidosis, venous thrombosis, thoracic radiation, macroglobulinemia, amyloidosis, and a goiter. These diseases cause chylothorax by obstructing or destroying the thoracic duct. Also, parenteral nutrition has been a possible cause; a quick dose of total parenteral nutrition can overwhelm the thoracic duct, causing the chyle to leak into the surrounding pleural space.\n\nIatrogenic chylothorax after surgery is the most common variety of chylothorax. It is a common and serious complication of a pneumonectomy. It is especially common in surgeries requiring mediastinal dissection. The probability of chylothorax depends on the type of surgery. The surgery with the highest risk of chylothorax is an esophagostomy, with a 5-10% risk of chylothorax. Lung resection and mediastinal node dissection have the second highest risk, with 3-7% risk. Other operations like mediastinal tumor resection, thoracic aneurysm repair, sympathectomy, and any other surgeries that take place in the lower neck or the mediastinum can lead to chylothorax. Chylotharax after trauma but not after surgery has also been described after central line placement, pacemaker implantation, and embolization of a pulmonary arteriovenous malformation. Blunt trauma to the chest region is another cause of chylothorax, which has occurred after blast injuries and even simple injuries from coughing or sneezing.\n\nThe main mechanism of chylothorax is the leaking of chyle from the thoracic duct, usually caused by a disturbance affecting the structural integrity of the thoracic duct. For example, placement of a central venous catheter can potentially disrupt drainage of lymph into the subclavian veins, followed by the thoracic duct, resulting in chylothorax. The disturbances cause the pressure in the thoracic duct to increase. Soon, collateral channels form, which eventually drain into the thorax. Trauma affecting the thoracic duct is the most common disturbing mechanism. \n\nWhether a chylothorax occurs in the left or right pleural space is a consequence of the thoracic duct's anatomic location in the body and depends on the level where the duct was injured. If the thoracic duct is injured above the fifth thoracic vertebra, then a left-sided chylothorax results. Conversely, a thoracic duct injury below that level will lead to the formation of a right-sided chylothorax. Chylothoraces most commonly occur in the right pleural space (50% of cases). Left-sided and bilateral chylothoraces are less common and occur in 33% and 17% of cases, respectively. \n\nIn the case of cancer, invasion into the thoracic duct or collateral lymph channels can obstruct lymph. In the case of mediastinal lymphadenopathy, the enlarged lymph node causes compression of the lymphatic channels and thoracic duct. This impedes the centripetal drainage of the flow of lymph from the edges of the lung parenchyma and pleural surfaces. This causes the chyle to ooze extensively into the pleural cavity, leading to a chylothorax. In the case of yellow nail syndrome, or lymphedema, chylothorax is caused by hypoplasia or dilation of the lymph vessels. In rare cases, like in hepatic chylothorax, chylous ascites crosses the diaphragm into the pleural cavity. In idiopathic cases like genetic disorders, the mechanism is not known. Up to three liters of chyle can easily drain into the pleural space daily.\n\nChest X-rays can detect a chylothorax. It appears as a dense, homogenous area that obscures the costophrenic and cardiophrenic angles. Ultrasounds can also detect a chylothorax, which appears as an echoic region that is isodense with no septation or loculation. However, neither a normal chest x-ray nor an ultrasound can differentiate a chylothorax from any other type of pleural effusion.\n\nThe cisterna chyli can be found in a thoracic MRI, making it possible to confirm chylothorax. However, MRI is not the ideal method to scan the thorax, and so it is rarely used. Another diagnostic technique is conventional lymphangiography. It is rarely used since there are equally sensitive yet less invasive techniques available to identify a chylothorax. Lymphangiography procedures use the contrast dye agent lipiodol, which is injected into the lymphatic vessels. The chylothorax shows up on the images and identifies the source any leak in the thoracic duct.\n\nAnother, more commonly used type of lymphogram is nuclear lymphoscintigraphy; this procedure requires human pentetic acid labeled Tc99m to be injected into the subcutaneous lesions of both sides of the dorsum of the foot. Then two images, anterior and posterior, are obtained using gamma-ray cameras. This test can be used with an integrated low-dose CT-scan with photon emission to get images that are more precise. Once pleural effusion is detected, a thoracentesis is recommended.\n\nThe fluid of a chylothorax may appear milky, serous or serosanguineous. If the appearance of the fluid is not milky, that does not exclude a chylothorax from consideration. Since chyle is rich in triglycerides, a pleural effusion that is rich in triglycerides (>110 mg/dL) confirms the presence of a chylothorax; a pleural effusion that is low in triglyceride content (<50 mg/dL) virtually excludes the diagnosis. If a pleural effusion contains triglycerides between 50-110 mg/dL, analysis of the lipoprotein content of the pleural effusion to evaluate for chylomicrons is recommended. If that procedure detects chylomicrons in the fluid, that confirms a chylothorax. Chylothoraces are typically exudative and often contain a high number of lymphocytes and have low levels of the enzyme lactate dehydrogenase (LDH). However, atypical chylothoraces can occur and are transudative in 14% of cases. A milky appearance of pleural fluid is insufficient to confirm the diagnosis of chylothorax as pseudochylothoraces and empyemas can mimic this appearance. Conversely, the absence of a milky appearance does not mean a chylothorax is not present as they may instead appear serous or bloody.\n\nThe treatment for chylothorax depends on the underlying cause but may include dietary modification, medication to prevent chyle formation including somatostatin/octreotide, midodrine and sirolimus, pleurodesis, and surgical treatment including ligation of the thoracic duct, pleurovenous or pleuroperitoneal shunting or thoracic duct embolization.\n\nThe initial treatment of a chylothorax is usually drainage of the fluid from the pleural space. This may be necessary to restore lung function compromised by the pressure exerted by the chyle on the lungs. Those with large chylothoraces may need nutritional support due to the nutrients lost, primarily to correct protein and electrolyte losses. Once the affected person is hemodynamically and nutritionally stable, then specific treatment can begin.\n\nA conservative treatment is changing diet to include fewer long-chain fatty acids, in particular free fatty acids. Since chyle is formed from these acids, chyle formation will reduce, allowing the defects to heal spontaneously. However, this can lead to fat deficiency and malnutrition over time. A possible response to this drawback is a venous fat hemorrhage, in which small and medium-chain fatty acids are given by diet, and long-chain fatty acids are given intravenously. Thoracentesis and an indwelling catheter for use at home is generally used to drain the chylothorax. If a malignant neoplastic chylothorax is present, then treatment with radiotherapy and/or chemotherapy is warranted.\n\nSurgery is indicated if the case is post-traumatic, iatrogenic, or refractory to other treatments, in which cases surgery reduces mortality by 40%. One invasive surgical intervention called a thoracic duct ligation involves closing off the thoracic ducts. Surgical pleurodesis is another option and can be undertaken if the affected person fails to respond to conservative treatment and is not a candidate for surgical intervention.\n\nAnother treatment option is pleuroperitoneal shunting (creating a communication channel between the pleural space and peritoneal cavity). Since surgery to close the leak is not reliable, talc pleurodesis is recommended; in a case study of 19 people with refractory malignant chylothorax due to lymphoma, it resulted in success for all affected individuals. Chemical pleurodesis is an option, since the leaking of lymphatic fluids is stopped by irritating the lungs and chest wall, resulting in a sterile inflammation. This causes the lung and the chest wall to fuse together, thus preventing lymphatic fluids from leaking into the pleural space.\n\nThe morbidity and mortality rates associated with chylothorax have declined as treatments have improved. Malignant, bilateral, and chronic chylothoraces have an inferior prognosis to other types. Currently, the mortality and morbidity rates are about 10% if treated surgically. If cases are post-operative and treated conservatively, mortality rates approach 50%.\n\nComplications of chylothorax include malnutrition, immunosuppression, dehydration, and respiratory distress. The severity of the complications depends on how quickly the chylothorax accumulated, its size, and its chronicity.\n\nChylothoraces are rare and usually occur as a complication of surgeries in the neck and mediastinum. It has no gender or age predisposition. A chylothorax occurs in 0.2-1% of cardiothoracic surgeries, 5-10% of esophagostomies, and 3-7% of lung resections.\n"}
{"id": "2280419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280419", "title": "French ship Océan (1790)", "text": "French ship Océan (1790)\n\nOcéan was a 118-gun first-rate three-decker ship of the line of the French Navy, lead ship of her class. She was funded by a don des vaisseaux donation from the Estates of Bourgogne.\n\nShe was ordered as États de Bourgogne and was launched at Brest in 1790. Like many French ships of the line during the Revolutionary period, she was renamed several times, becoming Côte d'Or in January 1793, Montagne in October 1793, Peuple on 17 May 1795, and a matter of weeks later again renamed, to Océan. She served until 1855.\n\nA large model of a generic \"Océan\"-class ship, named \"Océan\", at the scale can be seen at the Musée de la Marine in Paris.\n\nAs the largest ship of the line in the Brest fleet, the ship spent much of her early career as the fleet flagship.\n\nAs \"Montagne\", the ship was the flagship of Rear-Admiral Villaret-Joyeuse in the Combat de Prairial (known in English literature as the Glorious First of June) in 1794. She was badly damaged by , losing 313 men and receiving 233 round shots in her hull.\n\nOn 17 May 1795, she was renamed \"Peuple\"; a month later, on 23 June she fought in the Battle of Groix as Villaret's flagship. Returning to Lorient three days later, she was officially renamed to \"Océan\", a name that had been in use since 30 May.\n\nShe was refitted in Brest in 1797. \n\nIn 1801, she once again served as Villaret's flagship, ferrying troops of Leclerc's expedition to Saint-Domingue.\n\n\"Océan\" was Allemand's flagship at the Battle of the Basque Roads.\n\nShe was decommissioned on 2 August 1850, and used as a floating artillery battery from May 1851.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280420", "title": "San Dionisio", "text": "San Dionisio\n\nSan Dionisio is the Spanish-language version of Saint Dionysius. It may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280424", "title": "Frankfurt City Forest", "text": "Frankfurt City Forest\n\nThe Frankfurt City Forest or \"Frankfurter Stadtwald\" is a forest district in the south of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. There are also other forest areas spread out through the city.\n\nThe forest is about 48 square kilometres and the largest inner-city forest in Germany. It covers the southern areas of Schwanheim, Niederrad, Sachsenhausen and Oberrad, as well the northern parts of the \"Stadtteil\" Flughafen district. Four nature trails and sport paths cross the Forest. There are also 1600 seating benches and 25 rest huts, which provide protection in bad weather. Six playgrounds and nine ponds make the forest a popular local attraction.\n\nIn 1221 the emperor Frederick II gave the Teutonic Knights large parts of the forest and the corresponding grazing rights. In 1372 Frankfurt bought the city forest from Emperor Charles IV and wanted to regain these rights. This sparked a hundred-year fight with the Knights, which ended with a compromise in 1484. The city paid a sum to graze sheep on the land, but the area was limited. One can still see the stones of the border on the Schäfersteinpfad, \"Shepherd Stone Path\".\n\nThe use of the forest by farmers for grazing is still evident in the names, Unterschwein- und Oberschweinstiege, which were overnight stables for the acorn and beech nut eating pigs.\n"}
{"id": "2280426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280426", "title": "Defence and Overseas Secretariat", "text": "Defence and Overseas Secretariat\n\nThe Defence and Overseas Secretariat is a secretariat in the United Kingdom Cabinet Office.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280431", "title": "1959 in archaeology", "text": "1959 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1959 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280442", "title": "Joseph Addison Alexander", "text": "Joseph Addison Alexander\n\nJoseph Addison Alexander (24 April 1809 – 28 January 1860) was an American biblical scholar.\n\nHe was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, the third son of Archibald Alexander and brother to James Waddel Alexander and William Cowper Alexander.\n\nHe graduated at the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) in 1826, having devoted himself especially to the study of Hebrew and other languages.\n\nFrom 1830 to 1833, he was adjunct professor of ancient languages and literature at Princeton. In 1834, he became an assistant to Dr. Charles Hodge, professor of oriental and biblical literature in the Princeton Theological Seminary, and in 1838, he became associate professor of oriental and biblical literature there, succeeding Dr. Hodge in that chair in 1840 and being transferred in 1851 to the chair of biblical and ecclesiastical history, and in 1859 to that of Hellenistic and New Testament literature, which he occupied until his death at Princeton in 1860.\n\nAlexander was a remarkable linguist and exegete. He had been ordained as a Presbyterian minister in 1839, and was well known for his pulpit eloquence. He was the author of \"The Earlier Prophecies of Isaiah\" (1846), \"The Later Prophecies of Isaiah\" (1847), and an abbreviation of these two volumes, \"Isaiah Illustrated and Explained\" (2 vols., 1851), \"The Psalms Translated and Explained\" (3 vols., 1850), commentaries on Acts (2 vols., 1857), Mark (1858) and Matthew (1860), and two volumes of Sermons (1860).\n\n"}
{"id": "2280444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280444", "title": "Michael Patrick King", "text": "Michael Patrick King\n\nMichael Patrick King (born September 14, 1954) is an American director, writer, and producer of television and film.\n\nKing was born to an Irish-American family in Scranton, Pennsylvania and was raised as a Catholic. He attended Mercyhurst University in Erie, Pennsylvania for three years.\n\nIn 1975, King moved to New York, did comedy, and wrote plays. He also was a member of a comedy improv group called The Broadway Local which mostly performed at Manhattan Punch Line Theatre. They were considered to be the in-house Improv group there.\nHe eventually moved to Los Angeles, where he found work writing for the television series \"Murphy Brown\", and was nominated for several Emmys. He wrote for the HBO show, \"The Comeback\", as well as for broadcast shows \"Will & Grace\", \"Good Advice\", and \"Cybill\".\n\nHe may be best known for his work on the HBO series \"Sex and the City\", which was created by Darren Star. King wrote all the season premieres and finales of \"Sex and the City\" (except its pilot, written by Star, and the fifth-season finale, which King co-wrote with Cindy Chupack). He directed the show's film adaptation, and its follow-up, \"Sex and the City 2\". He is featured on The Other Network Writers Room, an audio series for aspiring comedy writers.\n\nHe is openly gay and lives in Greenwich Village. He owns Arcade Productions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280445", "title": "Robert Romanus", "text": "Robert Romanus\n\nRobert Romanus (born July 17, 1956), also billed as Bob Romanus, is an American actor and musician who has starred in film and television. He is perhaps best known for his role in the 1982 comedy \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\", as Italian-American ticket scalper Mike Damone, and as Natalie Green's boyfriend Snake on \"The Facts of Life\". He also starred in the 1985 film \"Bad Medicine\".\n\nRomanus is the son of Eileen (née Maloof) and Dr. Raymond Romanos, and is the brother of actor Richard Romanus. He grew up in West Hartford, Connecticut and went to Conard High School. He is of Lebanese descent.\n\nHe starred in the 1983 series \"The Best of Times\" as Pete Falcone and appeared in \"Fame\" as Miltie Horowitz (1986–1987).\n\nIn 1983, he appeared in Styx's rock opera music video for \"Kilroy Was Here\".\n\nRomanus has starred on soap operas such as \"Days of Our Lives\" as Marvin 'Speed' Selejko from 1983–1985, and \"The Young and the Restless\" as Lou in 2002. He has guest starred on many shows, including \"CHiPs\", \"The Facts of Life\", \"21 Jump Street\", \"Alien Nation\", \"MacGyver\", \"Providence\", \"Will & Grace\", and \"My Own Worst Enemy\". Romanus directed the 2008 drama \"Grapefruit Moon\" and had a small part in \"\", as himself. In 2010, he played the guitar teacher in \"The Runaways\". His 2018 projects include the films \"Genesis: The Future of Mankind Is Woman\", \"The Liquid Psychologist\" and \"Voyeur\".\n\nRomanus once owned a café in North Hollywood, Bob's Espresso Bar, which closed in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "2280451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280451", "title": "Vergílio Ferreira", "text": "Vergílio Ferreira\n\nVergílio António Ferreira, (Melo, Gouveia, 28 January 1916 – Lisbon, 1 March 1996) was a Portuguese writer, essayist, professor and a key figure in Portuguese-language literature. His prolific literary output, comprising works of fiction (novels, short-stories and novellas), philosophical essays and literary diaries, are generally divided into neorealism, dominant in Portuguese fiction at the time, and existentialism.\n\nIn 1992, Ferreira was awarded the Camões Prize, a literary prize that seeks to distinguish the great names of Portuguese-language literature. His name remains linked to Portuguese literature through the annual attribution of the Literary Prize Vergílio Ferreira by the Municipality of Gouveia.\n\nFerreira entered a seminary at the age of 10 and left when he was 16. Later he studied at the University of Coimbra. His experiences are related in his most famous work \"Manhã Submersa\" (\"Misty Morning\", lit. \"Submerged Morning\"), which was published in 1953 and made into a film in 1980. Among his best novels is also \"Aparição\" (1959).\n\nHe worked most of his life as a teacher in several places around Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280454", "title": "Shimei", "text": "Shimei\n\nShimei ( \"Shim‘i\") is the name of a number of persons referenced in the Hebrew Bible and Rabbinical literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280458", "title": "Beri, Jhajjar", "text": "Beri, Jhajjar\n\nBeri is a town and a Municipal committee in the Jhajjar district in northern Indian state of Haryana. The City is located northwest of Delhi and is a trading center. Beri is one of the largest tehsils of Haryana State including 77 villages. Beri City is situated on Road Connecting Gurgaon to Hisar and Kosli (Rewari) to Rohtak. This is the middle of these four cities. The First Chief Minister of Haryana, Bhagwat Dayal Sharma, was from Beri village. The Town has a world famous temple dedicated to the goddess Mata Bhimeshwari Devi and Lord Krishna.The \"Beri Pashu Mela\" or \"Beri Cattle Fair\" is celebrated in the days of Navratra every 6 months and is famous for its donkeys and horses.\n\n India census, Beri had a population of Approx. 30,000. Males constitute 54% of the population and females 46%. Beri has an average literacy rate of 70% Higher than the national average of 59.5%; with 57% of the males and 43% of females literate. 13% of the population is under 6 years of age.\n\nBeri City is the Administrative Headquarters of Beri Sub-division(a Tehsil before 15 August 2009) in Jhajjar district in the state of Haryana, India. Sant Lal Pachar became its first SDM. Presently Dr. Rahul narwal IAS holds the post of SDM Beri. The city has its own Tehsil Head office, Sub Divisional Courts and Mini Secretariat on Jhajjar-Hisar Highway. Presently H.S. Dahiya holds the post of Tehsildar Beri. Beri has two gausalas on the outskirts Beri City is also famous for its Khoya Burffis of madan halwai and for Gunga Halwai, famous Samose of Bhagwan Das Halwai, M Naanu Halwai. Beri has its own Police Station on Gurgaon-jhajjar-Bhiwani Road. The Police Station is headed by Sh. Daya Chand (SHO).\n\nBeri Town and Sub-Division, which previously fell under District Rohtak, Haryana, is now a part of newly created District Jhajjar from 15 July 1997 onwards.\n\nBeri is situated on Gurgaon-Bhiwani-Hisar-Sirsa Highway with easy road access to Rohtak, Bhiwani, Tosham, Gurgaon, Faridabad, Hisar, Sirsa, Palwal, Hanumangarh, Ganganagar, Delhi, Chandigarh, and Jaipur. The nearest Metro station on the Delhi metro Green Line is located in the Devilal Park in Bahadurgarh 28 kilometres away and Najafgarh metro 45 kilometres away.\n\nThe nearest railway station is Jhajjar Station at a distance of 13 km. Other major stations close to Beri are: Rohtak 30 km; Bhiwani 45 km; Rewari 60 km; and Delhi 60 km.\n\n\nBeri City is known as the Heart of Kadian Khap. Kadian Khap has 12 villages near by Beri. The चबूतरा of Kadian Khap is situated in the near village Dharana. There are some another famous Gotra royal families also in the Beri City which are migrated from the other villages and establish here like Rana. The present pardhan of Kadian Khap is बिल्लू पहलवान बेरी प्रधान and केदार सिंह कादियाण. The villages of Kadian Khap are- Beri Khas, Dubaldhan, Siwana, Majra, Wazirpur, Dharana, Mangawas, Baghpur, Chimani, Bishan, Dhaur, Bakra\n\n\nMata Bhimeshwari Devi temple in Beri a huge fair is held at the occasion of Navratra’s twice in a year. In the famous temple of Bhimeshwari Devi lakhs of devotees from all over the country come and worship the goddess In the market, hundreds of shops are decorated at the occasion of the fair. In these fairs newly married couples come to tie the nuptial knot again before the goddess .The Mundan ceremony of small children is also performed here. After reaching the temple and waiting for a long lakhs of Devotes light the \"Jyot\" of desi ghee and offer coconut and parsad to the goddess. Here, after the government has taken the charge of the temple, continuous efforts have been made to beautify the temple. With devotion and faith, the devotees arrive here, It seems that Beri is not less important than any other religious places devoted to goddess Devi’s chanting. \n\nIn the Beri the enhancing of goddess’s name echoes all the time. According to the well-known story, it is named, Bhimeshwari due to the installation of the idol of the goddess by Bhima. According to the saying before the beginning of the battle of the Mahabharta period Shri Krishna told Mahabali Bhima to bring his Kuldevi to the battlefield of the Kurukshetra and take the blessing from her. According to the order of Shri Krishna and his brother \"Yudhistar\" , Bhima approached the Hinglay Mountain ( Which is now in Pakistan ) and prayed the kuldevi to move to the battle field for victory. The goddess accepted the request of Bhima but laid down a condition, she said that she was ready to go with him but if he dropped me down on the way from the lap then she would not proceed further. In the way Bhima felt the desire to go to toilet so he placed the idol of the goddess under a tree of Beri from his lap and went on, after toilet, he also felt thirsty but he could not find any water near by. Bhima blowed the earth with his gada to take out water and took bath. After that when he tried to lift the goddess than he remained her condition, under compulsion, Bhima placed the goddess near the bank of the pond and went to Kurukshetra after seeking the blessing for victory. After 18 days of war when Kaurva’s got killed Gandhari reached the place screaming. Often said that here only Shri Krishna took out from the illusion. When Gandhari passed from there she saw her own kuldevi. After that she erected the temple here. Although the ruins of the temple erected by Gandhari are not present now, but of the seat of the great goddess is still there. Presently, marvelous temple is here. In Beri, there are two temples. The process of moving the goddess from outer to inner temple has been going on since the Mahabharta period. \n\nAt that time there was a dense forest. Maharishi Durvasa was residing in Dubaldhan around 8 km from here in fear of thieves. Every morning at 5 a.m. Mahrishi Dhurava would bring the idol of goddess in the outer temple in his lap and at 12:00 noon again he would return it in the inner temple. The process of moving of goddess from inner to outer temple is still going on. The aarti sung by durvasa is still enchanted everyday and every evening. The \" Akhand Jyoti\" for 24 hrs is enlightening. also said to be City of temples and Religious City in Haryana State. The City Has around 100 Small and large Temples. The Mata Bhimeshwari Temple, Bala Ji Temple,Radha Krishna mandir main bazaar are main temples in the city.People also come to the temple on foot from long distances.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280470", "title": "1996 in archaeology", "text": "1996 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1996 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280472", "title": "501 Queen", "text": "501 Queen\n\n501 Queen (301 Queen during overnight periods) is an east–west streetcar route in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, operated by the Toronto Transit Commission (TTC). At , it is one of the longest surface routes operated by the TTC, the longest streetcar route operating in Canada and one of the longest streetcar routes operating in the world. It stretches from Long Branch Loop (just west of Browns Line, adjacent to Long Branch GO Station) in the west to Neville Park Loop (just west of Victoria Park Avenue) in the east, running on Lake Shore Boulevard, in a reserved right-of-way at the median of the Queensway, and on Queen Street.\n\nIn 1875, the Kingston Road Tramway operated a horsecar service along what would become today's Queen Street East. This line was abandoned in the mid 1880s, at about which time the Toronto Street Railway extended its King horsecar line onto Queen Street East to Lee Avenue in The Beaches district. In 1893, the Toronto Railway Company electrified the line. In 1921, the TTC took over streetcar service.\n\nFrom 1923 to 1928, the Beach streetcar line ran along Queen Street from Neville Park Boulevard to the Humber River similar to today's 501 Queen. At about this time, there was also a route named \"Queen\", but it ran along Kingston Road to McCaul and Queen streets much like today's 502 Downtowner.\n\nFrom 1928 to 1937, service to the eastern and western ends of Queen Street was handled by separate routes. Thus, one would need to transfer streetcars in the downtown area to travel the full length of Queen Street.\n\nOn August 2, 1937, a new Queen route served all of Queen Street between Neville Park Loop and Parkside Loop. (The Parkside Loop was located at the northeast corner of Lakeshore Boulevard and Parkside Drive, south of the rail corridor, which was crossed by a bridge.) East of Roncesvalles Avenue, the Queen route resembled today's 501 Queen.\n\nBy 1954, when the Yonge subway (today part of Line 1 Yonge–University) opened, an underground streetcar station was partially built at Queen station to eventually allow streetcars to cross under the subway tracks. The plan was to put the Queen streetcar line in a tunnel under Queen Street between Logan Avenue and Trinity Park. However, because of changing ridership patterns, the plan was dropped in favour of east-west subway line along Bloor Street and Danforth Avenue (today's Line 2 Bloor–Danforth). Today, Lower Queen remains a ghost station.\n\nIn 1957, to accommodate construction of the Gardiner Expressway, the streetcar tracks were removed from Lake Shore Boulevard between Roncesvalles Avenue and the Humber River, and the bridge crossing the rail corridor was demolished. As a replacement, a new private right-of-way was built along the Queensway from the Sunnyside Loop to the Humber Loop. At the Humber Loop, passengers could transfer to the Long Branch streetcar which shuttled between the Humber and Long Branch loops.\n\nBetween 1967 and early 1977, two-car multiple-unit PCC trains served the Queen streetcar route.\n\nOn March 26, 1995, the 507 Long Branch route was replaced by a westward extension of the 501 Queen route. At this point, 501 Queen was at its maximum and present-day length.\n\nIn 2013, the TTC considered setting up a transit mall on the downtown portion of either Queen or King Street. TTC CEO Andy Byford wanted a car-free corridor along one of the city's two busiest streetcar lines (either 501 Queen or 504 King) to prevent bunching, gaps and service delays. Byford would ban general automobile traffic along the streetcar corridor but allow cyclists, taxicabs and delivery trucks. Byford preferred King Street for the transit mall because of recent condominium development along that street. There were similar proposals for a transit mall in 2001 and 2007. Ultimately, the King Street Transit Priority Corridor was established in late 2017.\n\nIn January 2017, construction began for approximately 15 months on various projects west of Roncesvalles Avenue, including rebuilding the bridge over the Humber River carrying streetcar tracks. Other work included replacing track and overhead along portions of The Queensway and Lake Shore Boulevard as well as at the Humber Loop. Also at the Humber Loop, a new substation was built, platforms were made accessible to accommodate Flexity streetcars and a siding on the west-to-east loop was modified. In April 2018, streetcar operations resumed between Sunnyside Loop and Humber Loop. Streetcar service between Humber Loop and Long Branch Loop resumed in June 2018.\n\nFrom May to September 2017, all streetcar service over the entire 501 Queen route was replaced by buses to permit multiple construction projects along Queen Street, including the replacement of an overhead pedestrian walkway at the Eaton Centre, which required overhead wires to be removed. According to TTC spokesperson, it would take 65 buses to replace the 50 streetcars then operating east of the Sunnyside Loop.\n\nRoute 501 Queen was once served mainly by Articulated Light Rail Vehicles (ALRVs) and occasionally supplemented with some of the shorter Canadian Light Rail Vehicles (CLRVs). However, by 2018, the route was mainly served by CLRVs. This was due to the declining reliability and accelerated retirement of the ALRV fleet.\n\nFlexity Outlook streetcars were introduced on the 501 Queen route in phases; weekend service using the Flexity vehicles along the route began in September 2018 and moved to full-time on January 6, 2019. The TTC had to address rush-hour crowding due to the accelerated retirement of the ALRV fleet, the last of which made their final voyages on September 2, 2019.\n\nBy June 23, 2019, the main portion of the route (along Queen Street and The Queensway between Humber Loop and Neville Park Loop) was the first to be fully served by accessible Flexity Outlook streetcars; the southwest portion of the route (along Lake Shore Boulevard between Humber and Long Branch Loop) followed suit on September 1, 2019.\n\nRoute 507 Long Branch was a streetcar route that ran along Lake Shore Boulevard West between Humber Loop and Long Branch Loop. Since 1995, the line has been served by the 501 Queen route.\n\nUntil September 27, 1928, service along Lake Shore Boulevard west of Humber Loop was provided by the single-track Mimico radial line which continued west to Port Credit. Starting from that date, the TTC replaced the radial track to Long Branch with a double-track streetcar line. On December 8, 1928, the Lake Shore streetcar service (not the same as the later 508 Lake Shore) began operation from downtown Toronto to Long Branch Loop where, until 1937, passengers could transfer to the shortened Port Credit radial line. An extra fare was required to travel from west of Humber Loop to downtown.\nOn October 28, 1935, the Lake Shore streetcar route was split, and the new Long Branch route was created to run between Long Branch Loop and Roncesvalles Carhouse. In 1958, when a new reserved streetcar right-of-way was opened on the Queensway, the Long Branch route (later called 507 Long Branch) was cut back operating mainly west of Humber Loop.\n\nOn January 1, 1973, passengers could transfer between the Long Branch and Queen streetcars at Humber Loop without paying an extra fare.\n\nOn September 30, 1979, Long Branch (by now 507 Long Branch) became the first route to employ the then-new CLRV in revenue service. On January 19, 1988, 507 Long Branch was also the first route to employ the ALRV in revenue service.\n\nOn March 26, 1995, the TTC merged the 507 Long Branch route into 501 Queen, making one continuous route from Neville Park Loop in the east to Long Branch Loop.\n\nBy 2007, critics of the TTC's management of this line argue that small delays at one end ripple into 30-40 minute waits at the other. Like route 504, there is much demand at either end of the route, and along the downtown middle stretch. Transit proponents such as Steve Munro have long claimed that Route 501 would be better off if it were split into two or three overlapping segments.\n\nIn late 2009, the TTC conducted an experiment of splitting the 501 streetcar route into two overlapping segments, as recommended by critics to alleviate bunching, gaps and short turns when delays occurred. During the experiment streetcars from the Neville Park Loop ran west on Queen Street as far as Shaw Street, and from Long Branch Loop or Humber Loop east as far as Parliament Street.\n\nIn January 2010, the commission received a report analyzing several of the experiments done in 2009 to increase service reliability. It was determined that splitting the route increased short turns by 90%, required more streetcars and resulted in poorer service. The TTC decided to use a route-management system called Step Forward, whereby when an operator goes off duty (break or end of shift), another operator takes over the streetcar instead of the streetcar going out of service along with off-duty operator. According to the TTC, Step Forward reduced short turns in late 2007, from 32.5% to 9.7% in the PM rush hours, and from 13.9% to 4.1% in the AM rush. It also was successful in reducing service gaps according to the TTC. Implementing Step Forward required eight extra operators and two extra supervisors.\n\nBy 2015, passengers were complaining about service on the 501 streetcar. Streetcars would often arrive at irregular intervals, causing unscheduled waits of 20–30 minutes. Streetcars would also do unscheduled short turns at Kingston Road or Roncesvalles Avenue, forcing passengers to exit and wait for the next streetcar. To address these problems and make service more predictable for riders, the TTC again split the 501 Queen route.\n\nOn January 3, 2016, the route was split into two sections at Humber Loop. The split is in effect only from 5am to 10pm. During the split, service over the entire route operates at intervals of ten minutes or better. The change was also made to provide more frequent service on each segment and to eliminate all but emergency short turns (such as for an accident) on the segment east of Humber Loop. Transfer-free service through Humber Loop was still provided by 3 runs in the morning, in the late evening and overnight. Some riders reported shorter streetcar wait times after the split.\n\nThe split was suspended starting from January 8, 2018, due to construction projects affecting Humber Loop. When streetcar service west of Humber Loop resumed on June 24, 2018, the split was reinstated. Initially, the TTC provided five transfer-free trips during the morning peak period; however, effective September 2, 2018, the TTC temporarily suspended these five runs due to a shortage of streetcars. , the split continues.\n\nFrom Neville Park Loop, the route proceeds westward in mixed traffic on Queen Street East. At Kingston Road, passengers can transfer to the 502 Downtowner and 503 Kingston Rd streetcars. Further west, Broadview Avenue provides a transfer point to the 504 King streetcars to go along King Street. At Yonge Street, the route passes Queen station on subway Line 1 Yonge–University.\n\nAfter crossing Yonge Street, the route continues on Queen Street West. At University Avenue, the route passes Osgoode station again on Line 1 Yonge–University. At Spadina Avenue, riders can transfer to 510 Spadina streetcars, and at Bathurst Street, to 511 Bathurst streetcars. The route continues to the western end of Queen Street West at the intersection of King Street West and Roncesvalles Avenue where riders can again transfer to 504 King streetcars.\n\nBeyond Roncesvalles Avenue, Queen Street West flows onto The Queensway, where 501 Queen streetcars run in their own right-of-way until reaching the off-street Humber Loop. Leaving Humber Loop, the line passes through a short streetcar tunnel under a railway corridor and the Gardiner Expressway. The line emerges from the tunnel onto Lake Shore Boulevard West and proceeds westward in mixed traffic to Long Branch Loop where the route terminates.\n\n501 Queen service operates in two sections with a split at Humber Loop at most times of the day. Westbound 501 streetcars from Neville Park (route 501A) and eastbound from Long Branch (route 501L) turn back at that loop, requiring customers to transfer between the two sections. Route 501L operates at a lower frequency than route 501A. However, the TTC provides transfer-free service through Humber Loop for all trips in the late evening (route 501) and overnight (route 301). \n\nRoute 301 Queen runs overnight between Neville Park Loop and Long Branch Loop, replacing the 501 Queen service. It is part of the TTC's Blue Night Network operating from about 1 am to 5 am.\n\nToronto's Brickworks Ciderhouse produces a semi-sweet cider called the \"Queen Street 501\" which is an homage to the streetcar route, as well as Queen Street in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280474", "title": "Carr Creek Lake", "text": "Carr Creek Lake\n\nCarr Creek Lake (formerly Carr Fork Lake), located east of Hazard, Kentucky, along Kentucky Route 15 in Knott County, is a reservoir created by the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers in 1976. Carr Creek Lake's earth and rock fill dam is 130 ft (40 m) tall and 720 ft (219 m) long, and the dam is located 8.8 mi (14 km) above the mouth of Carr Fork River, a tributary of the North Fork Kentucky River.\n\nThe lake is the main attraction of Carr Creek State Park.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280479", "title": "Lotto–Soudal", "text": "Lotto–Soudal\n\nLotto–Soudal () is a Belgian professional cycling team at UCI WorldTeam level sponsored by the Belgian lottery and Soudal, an adhesives and sealants manufacturer. For the 2016 and 2017 editions of Paris–Nice, the 2018 Giro d'Italia, and the 2019 Tour de Pologne, the team raced under the name Lotto Fix ALL, and in a different colour of kit, to promote a particular product from the Soudal range. The same organisations also sponsor a women's cycling team, .\n\nLotto has a long history of cycling sponsorship, they began sponsoring 1984 with Tönissteiner-Lotto-Mavic-Pecotex. In 1985, it became prime sponsor of a team bearing only its name. Walter Godefroot and Patrick Lefevere were early directeurs sportifs. The fusion of the Lotto-Adecco and Domo-Farm Frites teams for the start of the 2003 season created the current team and structure in the guise of Lotto-Domo.\n\nOmega Pharma had previously been a co-sponsor of the Quick Step-Davitamon team in 2003 and 2004. Omega Pharma became the main sponsors in 2005, under their Davitamon brand name. The team name switched to Omega Pharma's Predictor brand name in 2007 and the Silence brand in 2008. From 2010 the team became known as Omega Pharma-Lotto, before moving to the setup for the 2012 season.\n\nBelisol became co-sponsors in 2012, and are a Belgian company making windows and doors and solar panels.\n\nOn the final day of the 2014 Tour de France the team announced that they had secured new sponsorship for the team with Soudal, manufacturers of sealants, adhesives and foams. Soudal signed a deal lasting six seasons, the team name becoming Lotto Soudal: in 2019, they extended the deal for two more years. Lotto continue to sponsor the team, as well as the women's team and under-23 team. \nFor one stage race each year since 2016 (at the 2016 Paris–Nice, 2017 Paris–Nice, 2018 Giro d'Italia, and 2019 Tour de Pologne), the team raced under the name Lotto Fix ALL and changed the team kit to a grey colour to reflect one of Soudal's key brands.\n\nThe team is managed by Marc Sergeant and Bill Olivier and they are assisted by Herman Frison, Jean-Pierre Heynderickx, Bart Leysen, Marc Wauters, Mario Aerts and Michiel Elijzen. \n\nAfter Tosh Van der Sande accidentally listed the wrong nasal spray brand in the paperwork at the 2018 Six Days of Ghent where he returned a positive test for prednisolone, a substance found in the nasal spray Sofrasolone, he was temporarily suspended by the team. Van der Sande was later cleared of any wrongdoing by the UCI.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280483", "title": "Jeanneke Pis", "text": "Jeanneke Pis\n\nJeanneke Pis is a modern fountain sculpture in the centre of Brussels (Belgium), which was intended to form a counterpoint to the city's famous Manneken Pis. It was commissioned by Denis-Adrien Debouvrie in 1985 and erected in 1987. The bronze statue depicts a little girl with her hair in short pigtails, squatting and urinating on a blue-grey limestone base.\nJeanneke Pis is located south of the Grand Place, on the east side of / (\"Fidelity Alley\"), a narrow cul-de-sac some long leading northwards off the restaurant-packed /. The sculpture is now protected from vandalism by iron bars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280489", "title": "Democratic Evolution Movement of Central Africa", "text": "Democratic Evolution Movement of Central Africa\n\nDemocratic Evolution Movement of Central Africa (, MEDAC) was a political party in the Central African Republic led by Abel Goumba. \n\nMEDAC was founded in 1960 by Goumba and Pierre Maleombho, the former president of the National Assembly who was ousted by Dacko, after they left the Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa.\n\nIn late 1960 MEDAC mobilized protests against the increasingly authoritarian rule of David Dacko. Goumba became more and more critical of the French backing of Dacko. At a parliamentary session, MEDAC MPs staged a walk-out following accusations by Dacko that MEDAC was supporting tribalism. On 23 December MEDAC was dissolved by the government. Goumba's parliamentary immunity was repealed, and together with seven other MEDAC leaders he was arrested.\n"}
{"id": "2280490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280490", "title": "Socialist thought in Imperial Japan", "text": "Socialist thought in Imperial Japan\n\nSocialist thought in Imperial Japan appeared during the Meiji period (1868–1912) with the development of numerous relatively short-lived political parties through the early Shōwa period. Left wing parties, whether advocating socialism, Marxism or agrarianism, provoked hostility from the mainstream political parties, oligarchs and military alike, and many were either banned or went underground soon after formation. Although occasionally winning a seat in the lower house of the Diet of Japan, left-socialist parties played little role in the government of the Empire of Japan.\n\nThe ideology of socialism was introduced to Japan in the early Meiji period, largely via Christian missionaries with their concepts of universal fraternity, but had little attraction until the increased industrialization of Japan had created a disaffected urban labor force which became more receptive to calls for a more equitable distribution of wealth, increased public services and at least some nationalization of the means of production.\n\nThe early Freedom and People's Rights Movement founded in 1873 is also regarded as a forerunner to Japanese socialist development for its attraction to the labor movement and agrarian movement and increased representative democracy; however, it was more concerned with Constitutional development than social consciousness.\n\nThe \"Meirokusha\" think tank, also founded in 1873 is also regarded as a forerunner to Japanese socialist development, due to the support of many of its members for social change. However, the political outlook of most of its members was more liberal than socialist.\n\nThe was founded in October 1896, members included Isoo Abe, Kōtoku Shūsui and Sen Katayama. It was reorganized in 1901 into Japan’s first socialist political party, the . The government outlawed the new party two days after its formation.\n\nThe was founded on 28 January 1906 as a coalition representing a wide spectrum of socialist beliefs. The radical element was led by Kōtoku Shūsui, an anarcho-syndicalist, who favored direct action and strikes, while the moderates were led by Sen Katayama and Tatsuji Tazoe, who favoured a mild program of social reform. This coalition was unstable, and collapsed after only a year, on 22 February 1908. The various factions went on to create small, short-lived political parties, many of which came under police scrutiny and were suppressed under the increasingly restrictive Peace Preservation Laws. The execution of Kotoku Shusui in the aftermath of the High Treason Incident in 1911 was also a severe blow to the early socialist movement. The next few years were known as \"the winter years\" of socialism in Japan as political activity was next to none.\n\nOther early socialist parties included:\n\nModerates who favoured mild reforms followed thinkers like Minobe Tatsukichi and Sakuzō Yoshino, both professors at Tokyo Imperial University. Both felt that the Emperor system and other elements of Japan's traditional \"kokutai\" were compatible with democracy and socialism.\n\nYoshino went on to found his own political party with a mix of Christian socialism, Confucian public morality, and syndicalism. Along with Tokuzō Fukuda of Keio University, Yoshino joined with others to establish Reimeikai, which was a society \"to propagate ideas of democracy among the people.\" This group was formed in order to sponsor public lectures. The movement initially attracted many students and worker leaders. The party collapsed in 1920.\n\nThe (JCP) was founded on 15 July 1922, as an underground branch of Comintern by a group of socialist activists, including Hitoshi Yamakawa, Kanson Arahata, Toshihiko Sakai, Kyuichi Tokuda and Sanzō Nosaka. Outlawed at once under the Peace Preservation Law, the JCP was subjected to repression and persecution by the military and police.\n\nThe party was dominated by Hitoshi Yamakawa in its early years, but Yamakawa had the party formally dissolved in 1924, stating that the time was not right for a communist party in Japan. Also in 1924, Kazuo Fukumoto returned to Japan after studying Marxism in Germany and France, and scathingly attacked Yamakawa's approach, citing a need for the formation of a vanguard party on the Leninist model. He presided over the re-establishment of the JCP in 1926. The difference between Yamakawa and Fukumoto was both theoretical and practical, as Yamakawa wanted to avoid discussing the Emperor system and whether it represented feudalism (as the Comintern and Fukumoto thought) or if it was no different from the English Monarchy as Yamakawa maintained.\n\nOn 15 July 1927, the Comintern issued a thesis attacking both Yamakawa and Fukumoto and demanding that the party strive for an immediate two-stage revolution to overthrow the Japanese government, and especially the Emperor system and Diet of Japan, redistribution of wealth and favourable policy with Soviet Russia.[May one ask for a reference to a source in which that 'thesis' can be read, preferably in attested translation into good English?]\n\nIn the March 15 Incident of 1928 and April 16 Incident of 1929, thousands of suspected communists were arrested nationwide. In a special open trial of the Tokyo District Court in 108 sessions from 25 June 1931 to 2 July 1932, some 300 members of the JCP were sentenced. The trial was carefully orchestrated by the Home Ministry (Japan) to expose the inner workings of the JCP and its strategy to undermine the existing political order. All defendants were found guilty and were given stiff sentences, but those who publicly recanted (tenkō) their communist ideology and who agreed to rehabilitation were given much reduced sentences. [All three sources cited in the stub on the March 15 Incident are secondary, and no wiki has yet appeared on the March 16 Incident. What original evidence of these public events exists?]\n\nIn 1931, the underground JCP issued a new thesis calling for an immediate socialist revolution. [Was it a public document? If so, what did it say in terms, and how do we know it?] This radical approach led to a fracturing of the JCP leadership, attacks from social democrats, and more repression from the government. Overseas aid from Comintern not being forthcoming (the JCP was suspected of being infected with Trotskyism by its Soviet counterparts), the Japanese communist movement virtually ceased to exist after 1935 with the arrest of its leadership and dissolution of supporting organizations. It would not be reestablished until after the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280497", "title": "1968 in archaeology", "text": "1968 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1968 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280514", "title": "1944 in archaeology", "text": "1944 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1944 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280518", "title": "Central African Democratic Union", "text": "Central African Democratic Union\n\nThe Central African Democratic Union (, UDC) was a political party in the Central African Republic.\n\nThe UDC was established by David Dacko in March 1980 at a congress. Dacko claimed that the UDC was the continuation of Movement for the Social Evolution of Black Africa (MESAN). The party was banned on 2 September 1981, following the 1981 Central African Republic coup d'état.\n"}
{"id": "2280519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280519", "title": "Treaty of Hopewell", "text": "Treaty of Hopewell\n\nThe Treaty of Hopewell was signed by the Choctaw at the foothills of the Smoky Mountains on January 3, 1786. The ceded mounted to 69,120 acres, and the compensation to the Choctaw took the form of protection by the United States. To elaborate, the plenipoteniaries were Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens and Joseph Martin representing the U.S. while representing the Choctaw were 13 small medal and 12 medal and gorget captains. \n\nOn November 28, 1785, the first Treaty of Hopewell was signed between the U.S. representative Benjamin Hawkins and the Cherokee Indians. The treaty laid out a western boundary for American settlement. The treaty gave rise to the sardonic Cherokee phrase of \"Talking Leaves\", since they claimed that when the treaties no longer suited the Americans, they would blow away like talking leaves. A description of the boundary is found on Article 4 of the accord:\n\nIncluded in the signatures of the Cherokee delegation were several from leaders of the Chickamauga (Lower Cherokee), including two from the town of Chickamauga itself and one from Lookout Mountain Town.\n\nThe Cherokee complained at the treaty that some 3,000 white settlers of the \"de facto\" State of Franklin were already squatting on the Cherokee side of the agreed line, between the Holston and French Broad Rivers, and they continued to dispute that region until a new border was defined by the 1791 Treaty of Holston.\n\nOn November 28, 1785, the first \"Treaty of Hopewell\" was signed between U.S. representatives Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and Joseph Martin and members of the Cherokee People.\n\nThe preamble begins with,\n\nThe following lists the terms of the treaty:\n\n1. Indians to restore prisoners (who are U.S. citizens or their allies), slaves, and property. \n2. The United States to restore prisoners to the Indians. \n3. Cherokees acknowledge protection provided by the United States. \n4. Boundaries defined. \n5. No citizen of United States shall settle on Indian lands and Indians may punish violators as they please. \n6. Indians to deliver criminals who commit robbery, murder, or capital crimes. \n7. Citizens of United States committing crimes against Indians to be punished. \n8. Retaliation restrained. \n9. United States to regulate trade. \n10. Special provision for trade. \n11. Cherokees to give notice of any known designs against United States by tribes or any person. \n12. Indians may send a \"deputy,\" i.e., representative, to Congress. \n13. Peace and friendship perpetual.\n\nOn January 3, 1786, the Treaty of Hopewell was signed between U.S. representatives Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and Joseph Martin and members of the Choctaw People.\n\nThe preamble begins with,\n\nThe following lists the terms of the treaty:\n\n1. Indians to restore prisoners (who are U.S. citizens or their allies), slaves, and property. \n2. Choctaws acknowledge protection provided by the United States. \n3. Boundaries defined. \n4. No citizen of United States shall settle on Indian lands and Indians may punish violators as they please. \n5. Indians to deliver criminals who commit robbery, murder, or capital crimes. \n6. Citizens of United States committing crimes against Indians to be punished. \n7. Retaliation restrained. \n8. United States to regulate trade. \n9. Special provision for trade. \n10. Choctaws to give notice of any known designs against United States by tribes or any person. <br>\n11. Peace and friendship perpetual.\n\nOn January 10, 1786, the Treaty of Hopewell was signed between U.S. representatives Benjamin Hawkins, Andrew Pickens, and Joseph Martin and the Chickasaw leaders Taski Etoka, Piomingo, and Lotapaia.\n\nThe preamble begins with,\n\nThe following lists the terms of the treaty:\n\n1. Indians to restore prisoners, slaves, and property. \n2. Acknowledge the protection of United States. \n3. Boundaries defined. \n4. No citizen of United States shall settle on Indian lands and Chickasaws may punish them as they please. \n5. Indians to deliver up criminals. \n6. Citizens of United States committing crimes against Indians to be punished. \n7. Retaliation restrained. \n8. United States to regulate trade. \n9. Special provision for trade \n10. Indians to give notice of any known designs against United States. \n11. Peace and friendship perpetual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280520", "title": "Duala people", "text": "Duala people\n\nThe Duala (or Sawa people) are a Bantu ethnic group of Cameroon. They primarily inhabit the littoral and southwest region of Cameroon and form a portion of the Sawabantu or \"coastal people\" of Cameroon. \nThey have historically played a highly influential role in Cameroon due to their long contact with Europeans, high rate of education, and wealth gained over centuries as slave traders and landowners.\n\nThe Duala are related to several ethnic groups (or tribes) in the Cameroon Coastal areas, with whom they share a common traditional origin, and similar histories and cultures. These include the Ewodi, the Bodiman, the Pongo, the Bakole, the Bakweri (or Kwe), the Bamboko, the Isubu (Isuwu or Bimbians), the Limba (or Malimba), the Mungo, the Wovea and the Oroko (or Balondo), they are generally known as the SAWA people. \n\nThe Batanga of the region of Kribi could be added to the preceding list as they claim they are descendants of Mbedi and they report some degree of mutual comprehension between their own language and Malimba.\n\nMoreover, the Oroko language is classified as a Duala language, seems to be closely related to Bakweri (Mokpwe), which is a Duala language. Thus the Kundu, Lue,Mbonge, Ekombe, Londo ba Nanga, Londo ba Diko, Ngolo, Bima, Tanga and Koko are Duala peoples. The Duala have dominated the others historically, and these other groups all profess some sort of kinship to them. \n\nIn addition, many other coastal ethnic groups such as Balong, Bakossi and so on — who are culturally and historically more or less related to the Duala — are under Duala influence, and most of these people speak Duala to some extent. Duala is also spoken by a great part of the Bassa and Bakoko people. The word \"Duala\" may refer to the Duala \"proper\" or to the whole set of Duala-like tribes or even possibly to some \"duala-ized\" Bassa, Bakoko or Manenguba tribes.\n\nEarly Duala history may only be conjectured from oral traditions. The Duala trace their ancestry back to a man named Mbedi, who lived in an area called Bakota in what is today Gabon or the Republic of the Congo. His sons, Ewale and Dibombo, migrated north and reached a place called Pitti on the Dibamba River. Here, the brothers parted ways after a row. Ewale moved to the mouth of the Dibamba with his followers and then northwest to the east bank of Wouri River estuary. Meanwhile, Dibongo and his companions migrated southeast to the Sanaga River and then split up, some heading upstream with Dibongo and others moving downstream with a man named Elimbe. Ewale's people became the Duala, and Dibongo's the Limba.\n\nAccording to Duala traditions, the Bakoko and Bassa ethnic groups occupied the Wouri estuary when the Duala arrived. The Duala then drove them inland, a displacement that likely occurred in the late 17th or early 18th century.\n\nThe Duala emerged by the 16th century as the leading traders on the Cameroonian coast, though the Isubu and Limba did not trail far behind. The earliest Duala merchants were likely chiefs or headmen. \n\nThe Duala had long kept and traded slaves, who lived in separate settlements and performed menial tasks such as cultivation. Slave owners could only trade their slaves to other Duala, however, and owners were responsible for paying their slaves' debts and arranging their marriages. With the Europeans providing such a hungry market, however, these customs gave way. \nThe main Duala villages soon grew into a prospering township named Douala for the people who lived there. The coastal Duala purchased goods and slaves from interior groups such as the Bakweri, Mungo, Bassa and Bakoko. In turn, they sold these items to the Europeans, typically aboard their ships (and later at mainland factories or stores). In exchange, the Europeans provided alcohol, gunpowder, guns, mirrors, shoes, textiles, and tools.\nNdumb'a Lobe of the Bell lineage propped himself up in the 19th century as King Bell. Heads of rival sub-lineages soon rivalled him, including the self-styled King Akwa (Ngando Mpondo) in 1814, King Deido (Jim Ekwalla) of the Deido (an Akwa splinter group), and Prince Lock Priso (Kum'a Mbape) of the Bonaberi.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, the British had taken the lead in trade with the Duala. This coincided with the abolition movement, and the Crown employed the traders to end slavery in the Gulf of Guinea. On 10 June 1840 and 7 May 1841, Akwa and Bell became the first to sign anti-slavery treaties. In exchange, the Europeans provided these rulers with annual gifts of alcohol, guns, textiles, and other goods. In addition, the rulers outlawed practices the British viewed as barbaric, such as sacrificing a chief's wives upon his death.\n\nThe British also wanted to mould the Duala to their own concepts of civilization. This meant educating them in Western learning and converting them to Christianity. Alfred Saker opened a mission in Douala in 1845. By 1875, numerous missions and schools sprung up in Douala and other settlements. The early missionaries learned the Duala language and invented a written form for it, as Bible translation was one of their earliest priorities. Cameroonian Pidgin English began to develop at this time.\n\nTrade dramatically altered Duala society. European goods became status symbols, and some rulers appointed Western traders and missionaries as advisors. A high proportion of Duala grew wealthy through the new trade, and tensions arose between the haves and have-nots. Competition escalated between coastal groups and even between related settlements. Traders exploited this atmosphere and beginning in 1860, German, French, and Spanish merchants had established contacts and weakened the British monopoly. The Duala had gained a virtual hegemony over trade through the Wouri estuary.\n\nIn response to the threat from foreign merchants, the British put pressure on the Duala kings to request British annexation. In 1879, King Akwa sent such a request; Bell followed suit in 1881 (some historians believe that these documents were faked, however). When King Pass All of the Limba ceded his territories to the French, British traders expressed the urgency of annexing the Duala territories to the Crown. In July 1884, however, German explorer Gustav Nachtigal staged a coup by signing land-cessation treaties with Kings Akwa, Bell, and Deido. The British arrived too late and on 28 March 1885 ceded Victoria to Germany.\n\nOpposition to German rule followed the annexation. Prince Lock Priso still favored the British and staged a rebellion in December 1884. Around this same time, King Bell faced off against his own people, who were largely opposed to the German rule. Bell then found himself up against the other Duala chiefs in the Duala War, which was fought over the killing of a Bonaberi Duala and Bell's alleged refusal to share his profits with the other sub-lineages. Germany stopped the conflict when one of its nationals was killed. Bell survived, but his power had diminished significantly. \n\nRealising that the Duala would never again follow the rule of a single king, the Germans instead played the competitors against one another. They supported the weaker King Bell to counter the powerful King Akwa.\nThe Germans initially ruled from Douala, which they called Kamerunstadt, but they moved their capital to the Bakweri settlement of Buea in 1901. \n\nYears of contact with Westerners and a high level of literacy had allowed a literate upper class of clerks, farmers, and traders to emerge. This class were familiar with European law and conventions, which allowed them to pressure the German colonial government with petitions, legal proceedings, and special interest groups to oppose unpopular or unfair policies. A series of these began in 1910, when the German administration initiated a new poll tax, attempted to seize lands in Douala township, and then tried to oust the native population from the town completely. King Bell's successor, King Rudolf Duala Manga Bell tried to rally resistance by sending emissaries to visit the leaders of island groups. Duala Manga Bell had many allies. Cameroonian kings held together. King Bell's closest ally, kindred and best friend was King Ekandjoum Joseph, whom he visited when he was persecuted by the Germans. The latter king resisted and refused until his death to cooperate with the German administration, which he did not trust.\n\nGerman pretended that Ibrahim Njoya of the Bamum tipped the Germans off, and Bell and his collaborators were executed in 1914 for high treason.\n\nIn 1918, Germany lost World War I, and her colonies became mandates of the League of Nations. France became the new steward of Duala territories.\n\nThe Duala continued to prosper. Though the French had largely stripped their kings of power, almost half of the ethnic group's 15-20,000 members were important traders, plantation managers or owners, chiefs, or clerks in the civil service by the 1930s. The rest of the people were fishermen and farmers. By the 1940s, many Duala had attained prominence as builders, as well, servicing the growing cities of Douala and Victoria .\n\nThe new colonials maintained the German policies of ousting uncooperative rulers and of impressing workers for the plantations. Individuals could opt to pay a fine to avoid the labour, however, which led to a dearth of workers from the wealthier areas. The French thus encouraged people from the interior to move to the coast and work the plantations (settled well away from the influence of the Duala chiefs). These immigrants were primarily Bamileke. The newcomers grew numerically and economically dominant over time, leading to ethnic tensions with the indigenes. By the early 1930s, the Duala were a minority in the town named for them.\n\nOn 19 December 1929, four paramount chiefs sent a petition to the League of Nations asking for independence for the Cameroons. Their largest concern, however, was the return of seized Duala lands. This Duala land problem reached a head in 1925 when the French sold lands on the Joss Plateau that the Germans had appropriated. In response to pressure from the Bell clan, the French offered other territory in compensation. The Bells initially refused, but the Great Depression eventually prompted them to accept the French compromise. The Bells gained land in Bali district, and the French promised not to take any of the Akwa or Deido clans' holdings.\n\nIn the late 1930s, Alexandre Duala Manga Bell had emerged as the unofficial leader of the Duala proper. In 1937, the French expelled the Duala from Akwa town (an area of Douala), although they allowed them to maintain ownership of the land. During World War II, the French and British showed favouritism toward white-owned plantations, and many Duala-owned farms became unprofitable . Meanwhile, other Cameroonian ethnic groups had caught up to the Duala's lead in education and Westernisation. \n\nAt war's end, the United Nations set in motion the decolonisation of Africa. The Duala remained important in this process. For example, many Duala supported the pro-independence \"Union des Populations du Cameroun\" party (UPC) when it first formed. Other parties that had either Duala founders or significant backing include the \"Bloc Démocratique Camerounais\" (BDC), and \"Action Nationale\" (AN).\n\nThe Duala are primarily concentrated in Cameroon's Littoral Province in the Moungo, Nkam, and Wouri divisions. Their settlements lie largely along the coast or just inland. The Wouri estuary, where the Wouri, Mungo, and Dibamba Rivers empty, forms the centre of Duala country. Douala is their traditional capital, and many Duala live in and around the city, although today it has come to reflect the diversity of Cameroon as a whole.\n\nThe Duala today are divided into the urban and rural. Those who live in the cities, particularly Douala itself, earn a living at a number of skilled and unskilled professions. Many Duala still own parts of the city, allowing them to live off rents and development. The rural Duala, in contrast, work as fishermen and farmers, mostly at the subsistence level. Fishing is the trade of choice.\n\nTraditional Duala society was divided into three strata. At the top were the \"Wonja\", native Duala, with full rights of land ownership. The next tier consisted of the \"Wajili\", either non-Duala peoples or the descendants of slaves. Finally, the \"Wakomi\", or slaves, made up the bottom rung. Chiefs and headmen sat at the pinnacle of this hierarchy in the past, though today such figures have very little power in their own right. Instead, such individuals are more likely to own property and to have inherited wealth. Councils of elders and secret societies allow communities to decide important issues.\n\nThe Duala language is a member Bantu group, closely related to other Duala languages, a dialect continuum including Malimba. Duala is part of the Niger–Congo language family.\nDuala is used as a trade languages, due largely to the spread of the tongue by early missionaries. This is particularly true among the neighbouring Wovea, many of whom speak Duala in lieu of their native tongue, and the Isubu, many of whom are bilingual in Duala.\n\nIn addition, individuals who have attended school or lived in an urban centre usually speak French, although English and German were more common in historical periods. The rate of literacy is relatively high among the Duala, though this is for reading and writing European languages.\n\nAt least until the German period, Duala men used a kind of \"drum language\", tapping out coded messages to communicate news over long distances.\n\nDuala inheritance is patrilineal; upon the father's death, his property is split among his male heirs. The Duala have traditionally practiced polygamy, although with the introduction of Christianity, this custom has become rarer. \n\nThe Duala have been mostly Christianized since the 1930s. Evangelical denominations dominate, particularly the Baptist church. Nevertheless, remnants of a pre-Christian ancestor worship persist. As might be expected for coastal peoples, the sea also plays an important role in this faith. For example, Duala belief holds that their ancestors live in the sea. In this worldview, demi-human water spirits known as Miengu (singular: Jengu) live in the waters and mediate between worshippers and God. Traditional festivals held each year serve as the most visible expression of these traditional beliefs in modern times.\n\nPirogue racing has traditionally been the most important sport among the Duala. The sport reached its peak during the German colonial period, when organisers held races annually on 27 January (the Kaiser's birthday). Under the French, they became semiannual, occurring on 14 July (Bastille Day) and 11 November (Armistice Day). A typical Duala racing pirogue is 20–28 metres long with no keel and a bow carved with intricate designs. A team of 40-50 canoeists, mostly men who make their livings as fishermen, mans each vessel. In the past, diviners used the results of these races to predict the future, but today a Christian priest presides instead. Up to the late 1930s, a family on Jebale Island claimed to be able to summon the Miengu water spirits to help favoured participants.\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, football has grown to eclipse other sports in popularity.\n\nAssemblies, secret societies, and other groups play an important role in keeping the Duala unified, helping them set goals, and giving them a venue to find solutions to common problems. Chief among these is the Ngondo, an assembly of important chiefs. Another of these is the \"muemba\" (plural: \"miemba\"), a grouping of all Duala of a certain age range or tribal clan. The \"miemba\" serve to let their members network and socialise. Other secret societies include the Ekongolo, Jengu, Losango, and Munji.\n\nThe Duala are Bantu in language and origin. More narrowly, they fall into the Sawa, or the coastal peoples of Cameroon.\n\nIn addition to the tribal distinctions already noted, the Duala further sort themselves into a number of lineages or clans. Among the Duala proper, these are the Bonanjo (including the Bonapriso), the Bonaku, the Bonabela, and the Bonaberi. These names represent the principal families in each clan: Njo, Priso, Akwa, Ebele-Deido, and Bell, respectively. In addition, the Duala sometimes include the Bodiman, Pongo, and Wuri among their ranks, but not as sub-lineages.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280521", "title": "Angels &amp; Insects", "text": "Angels &amp; Insects\n\nAngels & Insects is a 1995 American-British romance drama film directed by Philip Haas and starring Mark Rylance, Patsy Kensit, and Kristin Scott Thomas. It was written by Philip and Belinda Haas with A. S. Byatt after her novella \"Morpho Eugenia\" (included in her book \"Angels and Insects\"). The film received an Academy Award nomination for Best Costume Design.\n\nWilliam Adamson (Mark Rylance), a naturalist, returns to Victorian England, staying with his benefactor, Sir Harold Alabaster (Jeremy Kemp). He has lost his possessions in a shipwreck, returning from an extended expedition to the Amazon. Now dependent upon his patron, William is employed to catalog Sir Harold's specimen collection and teach his younger children the natural sciences, assisting their governess, the unassuming Matty Crompton (Kristin Scott Thomas).\n\nWilliam becomes enamoured of Sir Harold's eldest daughter, Eugenia (Patsy Kensit). Eugenia is softly spoken, anxious, and mourning the recent death of her fiancé. Despite his impoverishment, Eugenia proves receptive and accepts his marriage proposal. Although Sir Harold grants his approval, Eugenia's snobbish and spoilt brother, Edgar, (Douglas Henshall) dislikes William's humble origins.\n\nSoon after the marriage, Eugenia becomes pregnant. Eugenia's behaviour alternates between coldness, locking William out of her room, and intense sexual passion. The couple has four more children. She calls the one son, 'Edgar', in the family tradition, annoying William. He spends much of his time with the Alabaster children and Matty, observing an ant colony in the forest, with a view to writing a book. Returning via the stables from an excursion, William discovers his brother-in-law Edgar raping a teenage servant. Edgar tells William that she consented, but she is clearly terrified. William forms a bond with Matty, who encourages his scientific activities and displays a strong intelligence. The book is successfully published.\n\nOne day, William is summoned from the hunt to the house by a servant who claims Eugenia wants him. Entering the bedroom, he finds Eugenia and Edgar engaging in incestuous sex. Eugenia confesses that this has occurred since childhood and that her fiancé committed suicide in consequence. She says that when it started she was too young to understand but, after she saw herself through the eyes of her fiancé, she felt guilty. In tears, Eugenia explains that she tried to stop, but that Edgar's will was too strong. William realises that he has been used to conceal the incest and that the children (who bear no resemblance to him) are Edgar's.\n\nMatty reveals her knowledge of the affair to William during a Scrabble-like game. Later, she explains that the servants were also aware and arranged for him to find out. Expressing frustration at her life and dependency on the Alabasters, Matty reveals that she has published her own book on the insects and has bought tickets for a ship for the Amazon. William is reluctant; despite his attraction, he feels that the rain forest is unsuitable for a woman. After she assures him of her strength and love for him, William acquiesces.\n\nBefore leaving, William meets Eugenia and tells her he intends never to return. He also promises to keep her secret, for fear of injuring her ailing father, and hopes she may find a way to live with her guilt. The movie ends with William and Matty departing in a coach for Liverpool, eager to begin their new adventure and leave the past behind.\n\n\nThe film was made on location at Arbury Hall in Nuneaton, Warwickshire, the home of the 3rd Viscount Daventry. The costumes worn by Kensit and the other actresses were designed in bright colors and bold patterns to evoke the appearance of insects, which would earn the film an Academy Award nomination for Best Costume Design. In the marriage proposal scene, Patsy Kensit's gown was treated with female sex hormones to attract the moths to her. 6,000 ants were brought in initially for the forest colony scenes, but they walked off before filming. Another 6,000 were brought in as a replacement, only for the original 6,000 to return.\n\nThe film was entered into competition at the Cannes Film Festival in May 1995 and screened at the London Film Festival on 5 November. It received a limited release in the US on 26 January 1996. Critical reception was very strong, with the performances and production values being particularly praised. Janet Maslin claimed the film had \"...formidable intensity and haunting beauty\" and Roger Ebert awarded it 3.5 Stars. Edward Guthmann of the San Francisco Chronicle thought that Haas directed the film \"...with elegance and control, and seasons the sexier, more melodramatic elements of his tale with subtle, slightly mocking irony.\"\n\n\"Time Out\" concluded that \"Angels and Insects\" \"...is not your average period drama...the costumes, design, music and camerawork steer clear of naturalism, highlighting both the modernity of the approach and the notions of humans as creatures to be observed dispassionately. Despite some uneven pacing and variability in performance, this is a work of clarity, ambition and intelligence.\"\n\nIn the US the film was released on VHS on 21 February 2000, on DVD 19 March 2002. In the UK the film was released on 3 February 2003 on both DVD and VHS.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280523", "title": "Ford Fairlane (Americas)", "text": "Ford Fairlane (Americas)\n\nThe Ford Fairlane is an automobile model that was sold between 1955 and 1970 by Ford in North America. The name is derived from Henry Ford's estate, \"Fair Lane\", near Dearborn, Michigan.\n\nOver time, the name referred to a number of different cars in different classes; the Fairlane was initially a full-sized car, but became a mid-sized car from the 1962 model year. The mid-sized model spawned the Australian-built Fairlane in 1967, although in that market it was considered a large car.\n\nFor the 1955 model year the Fairlane name replaced the Crestline as Ford's premier full-sized offering. Six different body styles were offered, including the Crown Victoria Skyliner with a tinted, transparent plastic roof, the regular Crown Victoria coupe with lots of stainless steel trim, a convertible Sunliner, the Victoria hardtop coupe, and traditional sedans. All featured the trademark stainless-steel \"Fairlane stripe\" on the side. Power options were a straight-6 engine and a V8. The Y-block was offered as an option and was called the Thunderbird V-8.\n\nFew changes were made for 1956; a four-door Victoria hardtop and two new, more powerful V8 options, of and , the latter available up to , were introduced. The Lifeguard safety package was introduced. The two-door Victoria hardtop featured a new and slimmer roofline. A one-year only two-door station wagon, the 1956 Ford Parklane, featured Fairlane-level trim. It was marketed to compete against the Chevrolet Nomad.\n\nFor 1957, a new style gave a longer, wider, lower, and sleeker look with low tailfins. The new proportions and modern styling were a hit with customers to the extent that the Ford outsold Chevrolet in 1957 for the first time since 1935. A new top trim level was reversed, the Fairlane 500. For the first time, the lower-level Custom line had a shorter wheelbase than the Fairlane. Engines were largely the same as the year before. The big news for 1957 was the introduction of the Fairlane 500 Skyliner power retractable hardtop, whose solid top hinged and folded down into the trunk space at the touch of a button.\n\nAnother facelift for 1958 had fashionable quad headlights, a grille that matched the 1958 Thunderbird, and other styling changes. New big-block FE V8s of 332 and 352 CID (5.4 L and 5.8 L) replaced the previous largest V8s, and a better three-speed automatic transmission was also available.\n\nA new top-level full-sized model was introduced at mid-year 1959, the Ford Galaxie. The 1959 Galaxie displayed both \"Fairlane 500\" and \"Galaxie\" badging.\n\nFull-sized Fairlane and Fairlane 500 models were restyled for 1960 and again for the 1961 model year. The Galaxie series continued as the top-of-the-line full-sized Ford. Fairlane 500s demoted to mid-level in the lineup and were equivalent to the Chevrolet Bel Air. Fairlanes were primarily sold as base level trim models for fleet use (taxi, police). Both were only available as pillared sedans.\n\nThe big-block 390 CID V8 was available in 1961 as the top-horsepower option, as the \"horsepower wars\" in Detroit continued.\n\nThe Fairlane name was moved to Ford's new intermediate, introduced for the 1962 model year, to bridge the gap between the compact Ford Falcon and the full-sized Galaxie, making it a competitor for GM's A-body \"senior compacts\", the Plymouth Belvedere, and the AMC Rambler. With an overall length of 197 in (5004 mm) and a wheelbase of 115.5 in (2934 mm), it was 16 in (406 mm) longer than the Falcon and 12.3 in (312 mm) shorter than the Galaxie. Wheel track varied from 53.5 in (1355 mm) to 56 in (1422 mm) depending on model and specification.\n\nLike the Falcon, the Fairlane had a unibody frame, but the body incorporated an unusual feature Ford dubbed torque boxes, four boxed structures in the lower body structure designed to absorb road shock by moving slightly in the vertical plane. Suspension was a conventional short-long arm independent arrangement in front, with Hotchkiss drive in the rear. The Fairlane was initially offered only in two-door or four-door sedan body styles.g\n\nThe Fairlane's standard engine was the 170 CID (2.8 L) six, but as an option, it introduced Ford's new, lightweight Windsor V8, initially with a displacement of 221 CID (3.6 L) and 145 hp (108 kW); a 260 CID (4.2 L) \"Challenger\" version was added at mid-year, with an advertised . The Sports Coupe option débuted mid-year and featured bucket seats and a small floor console. The trim level supplemented the Fairlane and Fairlane 500 trim levels (the 500 model had more decorative trim, such as a wider chrome stripe down the side and three bullets on the rear quarter panels). The Challenger 289 CID engine was introduced in mid-1963, with solid lifters and other performance pieces helping the engine produce an advertised ; however, it was equipped with single exhaust like the less powerful engines. This engine was coded \"K\" in the vehicle identification number. Exterior identification was by fender-mounted \"V\" badges that read \"289 High Performance\". That same year, station wagons arrived, called the Ranch Wagon and Ranch Custom Wagon. All 1962 Fairlanes had \"B\" posts despite the popularity of the pillarless hardtop and convertible styles in that era.\n\nFord saw the problem and introduced two pillarless hardtop coupes for 1963, in Fairlane 500 and Sports Coupe trim. For 1963 and later Sports Coupe models, the center console, which had come from the Falcon parts bin for 1962, was changed to be similar to that of the Galaxie. Sports Coupe models got a floor-mounted shift lever for the center console when Cruise-O-Matic or 4-speed manual transmissions were specified; however when the two-speed Fordomatic was ordered, the shift lever was installed on the steering column (and the console was the same without the shifter). Front-end styling for the 1963 models mimicked the big Galaxie models, but the rear end retained the small tailfins and \"pieplate\" tail lamp styling cues. The Squire wagon (a fake woodie) was available for 1963 only, including one model with front bucket seats. The \"Swing-Away\" steering wheel became an option in 1964.\n\nThe 1964 and 1965, Fairlane ranges consisted of similar body styles: base Fairlane and Fairlane 500 two-door coupes and four-door sedans, and Fairlane 500 and Sports Coupe two-door hardtops. As in 1963, the Sports Coupe got its own standard \"spinner\" wheel covers and extra exterior brightwork. Large \"Sports Coupe\" scripts graced the \"C\" pillars. The Fairlane Squire wagon was dropped, but the standard station wagon was continued. The 221 V8 was dropped after 1963, leaving the six as the base engine and the 260 as the base V8. The \"K-code\" 271-horsepower 289 V8 continued into 1964, gaining dual exhausts, while a version of the 289 with a two-barrel carburetor and hydraulic lifters was introduced. The two-speed Fordomatic continued as the automatic transmission choice for the 260 in 1964, while 289 V8s got the three-speed Cruise-O-Matic transmission option. All 1965 models featured wheels as standard, in place of the earlier wheels, and Fordomatic was finally phased out, leaving the Cruise-O-Matic as the only automatic available for the Fairlane. The 260 was also dropped after 1964, leaving the two-barrel 289 as the base V8. Styling-wise, in 1964, a new grille and headlight bezels were introduced, the tail fins were dropped, some chrome decorating on the side was changed, and the shape of the trunk lid changed. Styling features for 1965 included body-color headlight bezels for the deluxe models and rectangular taillight lenses, a return to the 1962-1963 trunk lid, along with less chrome on the body and a small standup hood ornament.\n\nAustralian and New Zealand models had longer cut-outs in the rear bumper to accommodate their license plates.\n\nAs the muscle car market took shape, Ford built a small number of Fairlane two door hard tops prepared for drag racing during the 1963 season. These cars were running the 289 and were set up at Dearborn Steel Tubing that built the special cars for Ford special vehicle operations\n. These soon evolved into the \"Thunderbolts\" for 1964. The racing Thunderbolt was a two-door post car, heavily modified to incorporate Ford's new 427 CID (7.0 L) V8 race engine with two four-barrel carburetors on a high-riser manifold, ram-air through the openings left by deleting the inboard headlights, equal-length headers, trunk-mounted battery, several fiberglass parts (hood, door skins, fenders, and front bumper), acrylic glass windows, and other lightweight options, including deleted rear-door window winders, carpeting, radio, sealant, sun visors, armrests, jack, lug wrench, heater, soundproofing, and passenger-side windshield wiper. The cars wore Fairlane 500 trim, and were only offered with the two-door sedan body. This special model, of which 111 to 127 total were made (sources disagree), delivered 657 hp (490 kW) at 7,500 rpm and was known as the Thunderbolt.\n\nRacing in NHRA Super Stock (which required only fifty cars be available to the public), on -wide tires, the Thunderbolt was based on the midlevel Fairlane 500 two-door pillared sedan, and in 1964 set elapsed time and top speed records at 11.6 seconds and 124 mph (200 km/h). took the Super Stock title (with Gas Ronda taking the honors), and won the Manufacturer's Cup. The car as delivered was slightly too light to meet NHRA's 3200-lb (1451-kg) minimum weight unless it was raced with a full tank of gasoline, which would bring it to 3203 lb (1453 kg). NHRA rules at the time required a metal front bumper, so the cars began to be supplied with an aluminum bumper and previous purchasers were supplied with one.\n\nThunderbolt production was ended due to NHRA rule changes for Super Stock competition, requiring 500 vehicles be built to be entered in that class. Ford had been losing $1500 to $2000 on each Thunderbolt sold at the sticker price of $3900. The first 11 Thunderbolts were painted maroon (known as Vintage Burgundy in Ford literature), the rest white; 99 had manual transmissions. Many are still raced. About 50 similar Mercury Cyclones were also produced by Ford in 1964, destined to be modified to represent Ford in A/FX competition, which they dominated, as well. These vehicles varied greatly in wheel track due to customer options for varying suspension and wheel/tire combinations. Front tracks from 54 to 56 in and rear tracks from 53.5 to 55.5 in were common.\n\nThe Fairlane was revised in 1966. The appearance was changed to match the full-sized Ford, which had been restyled in the 1965 model year. The front end featured vertically stacked dual headlights. The XL, GT, and GTA packages were introduced, as well as a convertible to join the existing range of sedans, hardtops, and station wagons. The \"K-code\" 289 CID engine was dropped this year. The GT featured a 390 CID FE V8 as standard, while the GTA also included the newly introduced the SportShift Cruise-o-Matic automatic transmission. The GT/GTA 390 CID engine developed with higher compression, and had a four-barrel carburetor. Mid year, Ford produced 57 special Fairlane 500 two-door hardtops with \"R-code\" V8 engine rated at at 6000 rpm and at 3700 rpm of torque, equipped with Ford's \"Top-Loader\" four-speed manual transmission. Built to qualify the engine/transmission combination for NHRA and IHRA Super Stock racing, they were white and had fiberglass hoods with a forward-facing hood scoop which ended at the edge of the hood. The Fairlane Squire wagon was reintroduced for 1966.\n\nMinor trim changes were introduced for 1967 as the Fairlane was mildly facelifted. The 289 CID small-block was the base V8, with a 200 CID six standard, with the 390 CID optional (with either two- or four-barrel carburetor, at 275 and , respectively). The 427s were still available, either with a single four-barrel carburetor or dual quad carbs, developing 410 (W-code) and 425 bhp (R-code), 427s were available on XL models, but very few were built. The notable addition for the 1967 model year was a Ranchero pickup as part of the Fairlane range (from 1960 to 1965, the Ranchero was based on the Falcon, while in 1966 it used the Fairlane platform but Falcon styling). The 1967 Fairlanes also included a number of federal government-mandated safety features, including a new energy-absorbing steering column with a large padded steering wheel hub, soft interior trim, four-way hazard flashers, a dual-chamber braking system, and shoulder belt anchors. The convertible had a tempered safety glass rear window.\n\nThe Falcon Ranchero and Falcon station wagon were, between 1966 and 1970, identical under the skin to the Fairlane versions of the same model. Only sheetmetal and trim differed.\n\nTwo different two-door coupe models were offered. The lower-end Fairlane Club Coupe had pillars separating the door glass and rear side glass, while the higher trim level Fairlanes were pillarless two-door hardtops, similar to the convertibles.\n\nA redesign was introduced for the 1968 model year. The wheelbase remained at , but it grew in other dimensions. They were about four inches (102 mm) longer and heavier than the cars they replaced. A fastback Sportsroof model was introduced in the Fairlane 500 series, as well as a more luxurious Torino model at the top of the intermediate range, contributing 172,083 of the Fairlane's 371,787 units sold that year.\n\nIn a cost-saving decision, the station wagons carried over the 1966-67 bodies from the cowl back. The Ranch Wagon model name was deleted; Fairlane wagons had either the base or the 500 trim. Base hardtop sales more than doubled, to 44,683 units.\n\nThe base engine was the I6, with several optional V8s. Early production 1968 base V8 Fairlanes were equipped with the two-barrel , while later units came with the . The GTs were part of the Torino range, with the 302 CID V8 standard, with optional engines being the 390 CID V8 in two- and four-barrel versions. The 390 four-barrel was supplanted mid-year as the top performance engine by the Cobra Jet, developing . There was also a Super Cobra Jet. The Fairlane 500, Ranchero, and Torino GT/GTA were also offered with the new 351W CID with a four-barrel producing 250 HP and only in the Torino GT/GTA the 351C four-barrel with 275 HP could be ordered.\n\nThe Ranchero coupe utility body style was available in standard, 500, and GT versions.\n\nThe Cobra was introduced in 1969 as a competitor for Plymouth's Road Runner. Basic models featured the 302 CID V8 and three-speed manual transmission as standard. Options included the 390 CID and two V8s. The Cobras had a standard 428 CID V8 rated at , while options included bucket seats, hood scoop, clock, tachometer, power disc brakes, and 4.30:1 rear axle gearing. \"Regular\" Fairlanes and Rancheros continued, all with bucket-seat options.\n\nFord's intermediates grew again in 1970, now with a wheelbase. At the start of the model year, only the Fairlane 500 remained as the base trim model in what was now effectively the Torino series.\n\nThe straight six-cylinder was the economy power, while largest engine was now a with four-barrel carburetor and . Different heads were optional and gave the Cobra and higher compression. Other options included the Cobra Jet Ram Air 429, though Ford quoted the same power output, and the Drag Pack rated at . However, the 1970s were slower than the 1969s, and race teams were forced to run the older models.\n\nThe Falcon name was transferred from Ford's now discontinued, in the US, compact to a basic, even lower-trim version of the intermediate platform as a \"1970½\" model on January 1, 1970. This series included a two-door sedan which was not available in the higher trim lines. For 1971, the Falcon and Fairlane 500 names were dropped, as all of the intermediate models took the Torino name. The Falcon and Fairlane names continued to be used in Australia through to the 21st century. The Fairlane name continued to be used in Venezuela through 1978 on corresponding Ford Torino and LTD II models.\n\nThe four-door sedan of the 1968 body style was built in Argentina from 1969 to 1973 and the 1969 body style from 1973 to 1981 under the Fairlane name with three equipment packages: Standard, 500 and LTD. The car was similar to the American model except the engines. The two options were a 221 CID 6-cylinder with , and the old 292 phase I (1969–1971) CID \"Y-block\" V8 which had been last used in the 1964 F-Series truck; it was rated at , in 1971 the Ford Motor Company Argentina decided to make an improvement on the 292, was started by the covers mainly the problem of spark plugs was solved by giving an inclination towards the front of the engine that allowed an easier extraction in the car, changed the opening order and exhaust cam, valves larger intake (of the 292 heavy duty American) were placed, fuel lines making them more direct was improved with a new admission very similar to that of the small block 289, 302 pistons maximum compression with lomo brand Buxton were used, raising the compression at 8 to 1, allowing the engine erogue 185 HP at 4500 rpm, another improvement were leaks with individual manifold runners, eliminating the original American system of a manifold connected to another in series, used in trucks, in cars they were always individual. Distributors are different in coupling, calling FASE II . In 1978, the LTD \"Elite\" option was introduced as the most luxurious made in Argentina. By the end of production in 1981, almost 30,000 Fairlanes had been made.\nFord manufactured the Torino in Venezuela marketed as the Fairlane and Fairlane 500. These cars were identical to the U.S. Torino through 1976 and both base Fairlane and upscale Fairlane 500 used the \"base\" Torino grille. For 1977–1979 the Fairlane was based on the American LTD II.\n\nAt the 2005 Auto Show circuit, Ford revealed a new concept car with the Fairlane nameplate. The \"people-mover\" Fairlane crossover utility vehicle concept featured three-row seating for six passengers, and previewed the chromed three-bar horizontal grill design, which currently appears on the 2006 Ford Fusion sedan and 2007 Ford Edge crossover utility vehicle.\"\n\nA production version of the Fairlane concept, now called the Ford Flex, debuted at the 2007 New York Auto Show, and entered production for the 2009 model year in summer 2008. Unlike the concept, the production model comes with seven seats. It is built on the Ford D3 platform, which is also used by the Ford Taurus, and Mercury Sable. It is intended to replace the people-mover capability of the Ford Freestar minivan.\n"}
{"id": "2280524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280524", "title": "Authorised firearms officer", "text": "Authorised firearms officer\n\nAn authorised firearms officer (AFO) is a British police officer who has received training, and is authorised, to carry and use firearms. The designation is significant because in the United Kingdom most police officers do not routinely carry firearms, although they can be equipped with tasers. The only forces where officers are routinely armed are the Police Service of Northern Ireland, the Ministry of Defence Police, the Civil Nuclear Constabulary, Belfast Harbour Police, the Belfast International Airport Constabulary, and the Protection Command.\n\nIn 2014/15, there were 5,647 authorised firearms officers and 14,666 police operations throughout England and Wales in which the deployment of firearms was authorised. Following the November 2015 Paris attacks it was decided to significantly increase the numbers of armed officers, particularly in London.\n\nAFOs are often deployed in armed response vehicles (ARV) or on static security duties.\n\nAll police forces in the United Kingdom have an AFO selection process, varying slightly between each force. As with many police specialities, all authorised firearms officers have volunteered for the role. Candidates are required to gain approval from their superiors before embarking on a series of interviews, psychological and physical fitness tests, medical examinations and assessment days, before permission to commence firearms training is given. There is no guarantee of success; candidates can be returned to their previous role at any point in training if they do not meet the required standard.\n\nOnce authorised, AFOs must pass regular refresher training and retests in order to maintain their authorisation. Failure to meet the required standards can result in the officer having their firearms authorisation revoked. Health or fitness problems can also result in temporary or permanent suspension from firearms duties.\n\nAFOs are used by some specialist units of police forces throughout the United Kingdom, who by nature of their role have a requirement to deploy armed police officers. Such units include the Diplomatic Protection Group of the Metropolitan Police Service, armed response vehicles in various police forces throughout the UK, in airport policing, and officers of the Ministry of Defence Police and the Civil Nuclear Constabulary.\n\nIt is also known that the National Crime Agency makes use of AFO's, notably having an Armed Operations Unit. Such officers do not generally engage in terror related activities but moreover violent, organised crime – including the trafficking of firearms.\n\nThe use of firearms by the police is covered by statute (such as the Police and Criminal Evidence Act 1984 and Human Rights Act 1998), policy (such as the Home Office \"Code of Practice on Police use of Firearms and Less Lethal Weapons\" and the ACPO \"Manual of Guidance on Police Use of Firearms\") and common law.\n\nAFOs may only carry firearms when authorised by an \"appropriate authorising officer\". The appropriate authorising officer must be of the rank of inspector or higher. When working at airports, nuclear sites, on protection duties and deployed in armed response vehicles in certain areas, 'standing authority' is granted to carry personal sidearms. All members of the Police Service of Northern Ireland have authority to carry a personal issue handgun as a matter of routine, both on duty and off.\n\nUnited Kingdom law allows the use of \"reasonable force\" in order to make an arrest or prevent a crime or to defend oneself. However, if the force used is fatal, then the European Convention of Human Rights only allows \"the use of force which is no more than absolutely necessary\". Firearms officers may therefore only discharge their weapons \"to stop an imminent threat to life\".\n\nACPO policy states that \"use\" of a firearm includes both pointing it at a person and discharging it (whether accidentally, negligently or on purpose).\nAs with all use of force in England and Wales, the onus is on the individual officer to justify their actions in court.\n\nSpecialist firearms officers (SFOs) are AFOs trained in skills such as dynamic intervention and dynamic entry and may intervene in more serious firearms incidents such as sieges or high-risk pre-planned operations. SFOs receive a higher level of training than AFOs, in areas such as method of entry into various structures and in the use of specialist weapons and equipment.\n\nThere are approximately 70 SFOs in London serving with the Metropolitan Police Service. These officers must already have served as an Armed Response Vehicle officer before undertaking an 18-week training course to qualify them to serve in the Specialist Firearms Command (SCO19).\n\nSince 2014, a number of SFOs serving with the Metropolitan Police Service have undergone additional training in order to qualify as Counter Terrorist Specialist Firearms Officers (CTSFOs) due to an increase in terrorist incidents, such as the 2015 Paris bombings and armed-offender rampages (such as in Belgium in 2016), where a higher level of armed response is required from police to contain active threats. SFOs in other urban-centric commands may also undergo additional training in the near future.\n\nDifferent police forces in the United Kingdom use different firearms. For forces in England and Wales, guidance is provided from ACPO and the Home Office. Decisions on which weapons will be employed by an individual police force largely rest with the chief constable.\n\nWithin the London's Metropolitan Police, there are a number of Operational Command Units (OCUs) that employ AFOs.\n\n\nThe numbers of firearms officers ranges from 31 in Warwickshire to 2,394 in the Metropolitan Police, although outside London there are only three forces with more than 200 firearms officers, those being Greater Manchester, Thames Valley and West Midlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280530", "title": "Ford Fairlane (Australia)", "text": "Ford Fairlane (Australia)\n\nThe Ford Fairlane and LTD are full-sized luxury vehicles produced in a series of models by Ford Australia between 1959 (with the LTD commencing production in 1973) and 2007.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1964, the Fairlane was a locally assembled version of the American Ford Fairlane which had taken its name from Henry Ford's estate, Fair Lane, near Dearborn, Michigan. This was Ford Australia's top-of-the-range model until replaced by an Australian-assembled version of the full-sized American Ford Galaxie. In 1967, Ford Australia reintroduced the Fairlane, this time as an Australian-developed, luxury, long-wheelbase version of its mainstream Falcon, positioned between the Falcon and the Galaxie. The locally assembled Galaxie evolved into the LTD which was itself replaced in 1973 by an Australian-developed, Fairlane-based model, also known as the Ford LTD. In North America, unlike its designation in Australia, it was not considered a luxury vehicle. In Australia, \"LTD\" originally stood for \"Lincoln Type Design\", although Ford Australia later promoted a connection with the meaning \"Limited\".\n\nThe Fairlane and LTD competed in the marketplace with the Holden Brougham (1968–1971), the Statesman (1971–1984), and later with the Holden Statesman and Caprice (1990–2007).\n\nFord produced the Fairlane/LTD at Campbellfield, Victoria, and Eagle Farm, Queensland, in the early years. Until around March/April 1978 with the upcoming release of the Ford Falcon (XD) and its derivatives, Ford consolidated Falcon production at Campbellfield and Fairlane/LTD manufacturing to Eagle Farm. Around the release of the next generation during the EA Falcon era (1988), Eagle Farm ceased manufacture of cars and only produced heavy trucks until its closure in 1998.\n\nIn September 1959, Ford Australia released three new locally assembled models, the Fairlane 500, the lower specification Custom 300, and the Ranch Wagon. They were sourced from Ford of Canada, but were essentially the same as their 1959 US Ford counterparts. Tooling for local manufacture had taken nearly two years and had been completed at a cost of almost £1.5 million Australian.\n\nThe sedans were 9½ inches longer and 5 inches lower than the Ford Customline models which they replaced and all three models featured a 204 hp (152 kW) V8 engine. The Custom 300 and Ranch Wagon were fitted with a three-speed manual transmission as standard equipment and the Fairlane 500 used a fully automatic transmission. Wheelbase was 118\".\n\nFor 1960, the range was updated with the grille and trim from the 1959 Canadian Meteor and engine power was increased to 220 hp (164 kW).\nIn May 1962, the smaller 1962 US Fairlane 500 sedan was introduced as the FB model and a Windsor V8 was fitted in lieu of the 332. Although classified as an intermediate-sized car in the United States, the new model was referred to in Australia as the \"compact\" Fairlane. The new model, which was assembled in Ford Australia's Homebush plant in Sydney, New South Wales, was £200 cheaper than its predecessor at £2,000; 1,632 examples were produced.\nAssembly of the 1963 US Fairlane 500 sedan as the FC model was commenced by Ford Australia in November 1962. It featured a revised bonnet, front guards, grille, headlights, and taillights, and was fitted with the \"Ford-O-Matic\" automatic transmission as standard equipment and a Windsor V8 engine was now offered as an option. Australian production of the 1963 model totalled 1,771 units.\n\nThe 1964 US Fairlane 500 sedan was assembled by Ford Australia from December 1963 as the FD model. It was introduced in April 1964, distinguished by a lack of tail fins and a new grille with seven vertical bars. A choice of two powertrains was offered in the new model, a Windsor V8 with Ford-O-Matic automatic transmission or a Windsor V8 with Cruise-O-Matic automatic transmission. The 1964 model was the last of the US Fairlanes in Australia, as Ford discontinued the model locally in 1965 to make way for the larger Ford Galaxie; 1,344 examples were produced in Australia.\nThe ZA Fairlane series, introduced in March 1967, was designed and built in Australia, although its front end styling resembled the American Ford Falcon sedan of that year (except for the quad headlights). The body shape was similar to the 1966–67 US Fairlane sedan, however. Offered as the Fairlane and the Fairlane 500, it was based on the Australian XR Falcon. The 2819 mm wheelbase of the Falcon was stretched to 2946 mm, the front and centre body sections were retained and a new twin-headlight grille was added. The rear quarter panels and boot from the US Fairlane were used, and square taillights (sourced from the 1966 USA Fairlane) replaced the round units used on the Falcon.\n\nThe Fairlane was equipped with a six-cylinder engine as standard with a V8 as an option. The Fairlane 500 featured the V8 as standard equipment. The six-cylinder engine was available with manual or automatic transmission and the V8 only with an automatic. Production of the ZA Fairlane totalled 8,814 vehicles.\nA model change to the ZB series in March 1968 had the 200 grow to and the 289 grow to , the top model remaining the Fairlane 500 with the larger engine. The Fairlane name badge on the rear guards was now in script rather than capitals as it had been on the ZA. The only notable external change was the taillight design (sourced from the 1967 USA market Fairlane), again following the general look of the Falcon (in this case the XT). The base model was now known as Fairlane Custom.\n\nThe facelifted ZC Fairlane series, which was introduced in July 1969, featured vertically stacked rather than horizontal headlights, harking back to the look of the 1966–67 US Fairlane models. Taillights were similar to those on the ZB (again, similar in style to the 1967 US Fairlane with the inclusion of the required amber lens), but with wrap-around styling. The ZC was available in Fairlane Custom and Fairlane 500 models. A 221 cu in (3.6L) straight 6 engine was standard on the Custom, a 302 cu in (4.9L) V8 was standard on the Fairlane 500 and optional on the Custom, and a 351 cu in (5.8L) V8 was optional (with the same specs as the XW GT) on both models. Air conditioning was offered as an option for the first time. 12,513 ZC series Fairlanes were produced.\nThe ZD series was released in November 1970 for the 1971 model year. The base engine became a six-cylinder unit, while the 302 and 351 V8s remained, the latter found only in the Fairlane 500. Externally, the taillights were restyled (similar to XY Falcon), and a new plastic grille with metal surround (mimicking the USA and Brasilian market 1966 model year Galaxie 500) and new boot garnish were used. Internally, new door trim patterns debuted and the speedometer backing was now black instead of the silver used on ZCs.\n\nThe ZA to ZD were basically stretched versions of the XR to XY series Ford Falcons, respectively, with the extra length added behind the rear door, moving the rear seat back and giving more leg room.\n\nAn all-new, Australian-designed ZF series Fairlane was launched in April 1972, with swoopier bodywork, but criticisms launched that it looked too much like a four-headlamp version of the basic Falcon. The ZF Fairlanes were joined by an even more upscale LTD in August 1973, with hidden headlamps and vinyl roof. Model names remained the same (Custom and 500), as did the engine choices, as the previous model year. Although this car was designed and built exclusively in Australia, its styling is reminiscent of the US-market Mercury Montego. The 1973 ZF also had the last manual transmission; afterwards, all Fairlanes were automatics.\n\nThis model was also sold in South Africa, unlike the Falcon, which was discontinued in favour of the European Granada. Only the Fairlane 500, with column shift and seating for six, was available in South Africa. These cars were fitted with the Cleveland 351 (5.8-litre) V8 engine.\n\nNovember 1973 had the next series of changes, to the ZG-series Fairlane. The changes were mainly cosmetic, with a four-horizontal-bar grille and revised taillight lenses and garnish panel. An anniversary model with a standard 302 was released in 1975, but otherwise the range stayed the same as the 1974 versions.\nThe Fairlane-based P5 series Ford LTD was released very late in the ZF model run in August 1973, three months prior to the ZG Fairlane. The LTD was only available as a four-door sedan, and the wheelbase was even longer than that of the Fairlane, itself a stretched Falcon. A luxury two-door coupé called the Ford Landau (also designated P5) was released at the same time. The Landau was based on the Australian Falcon Hardtop, so featured a wheelbase as opposed to the wheelbase of the LTD. Both models were notable for their concealed headlamps, which were revealed when their vacuum-operated grille sections were retracted. The technology was similar to that found on earlier models of the American built Ford Thunderbird. Standard equipment on both the LTD and the Landau included integrated air conditioning, automatic transmission, electric windows, and a 351ci / 5.8L V8 engine.\n\nAlso in July 1975, Ford commenced a release of the Town Cars. These were 50th-Anniversary models, celebrating 50 years of Ford in Australia. They produced 250 of each in the LTD and Fairlane ranges. The Fairlanes in particular were optioned with LTD components, 15-inch wheels, leather interior, and electric windows to name some options. In the Fairlane, only a small handful was special-ordered with a 351 motor. All others were 302s. The LTD were 351-engine cars.\n\n50th Anniversary Model badge\n\nAs the P5 was released during the ZF model run, it retained many ZF components. For example, the main interior upgrade from the Fairlane ZF to ZG was the turn signal stalk. The ZF had the older-style stalk with the high beam \"dipper\" switch on the floor. When the ZG Fairlane was released a big item was the new multifunction column stalk which incorporated the dipper switch and horn. The P5s, however, used the ZF-style stalk and still had a \"squeeze rim\" horn similar to Falcon GTs of the era. Because the P6 LTD was not released until about five months after the ZH Fairlane, some of the last P5s actually had a few minor ZH parts fitted.\nThe ZH series addressed earlier complaints about the Fairlane being too close to the Falcon in May 1976. The designers retained the same central section from the upcoming XC Falcon (including that car's new rear doors), but put on lengthened front and rear ends, giving the car more bulk and a luxury impression. The styling was reminiscent of the 1968 Mercury Marquis. The range-topping LTD went further upmarket with a fancy, Rolls-Royce-inspired grille (not dissimilar to that found on the Continental Mark V. Another sign of the upmarket move was the 500 becoming the basic trim (the Custom was deleted), and the Fairlane Marquis being the upscale version. The Marquis was Ford's response to the Statesman Caprice, which was introduced in 1974 as an LTD rival. ZH also moved to the use of the metric system to denote the engine sizes: the basic engine was known as the 4.9 L, the other as the 5.8 L. All ZH Marquises built after January 1979 had Borg-Warner differentials instead of the Ford 9-inch.\n\nThe P6 Series LTD was introduced in September 1976. This model had an even more flamboyant grille with four round headlamps, apeing Rolls-Royces and other luxury models. The Landau was discontinued at this time. In 1977, a limited-edition LTD \"Silver Monarch\" model (referencing the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II) was released and was only available in a \"Stardust Silver\" colour, a specially imported silver vinyl roof, and a Cranberry red velour interior. Another limited-edition model, the LTD Town Car was offered in 1978.\nFord waited until May 1979 before updating the Fairlane to the ZJ Series. This model was a leap ahead into the new decade, with squared-off lines and a six-light bodyshell clearly distinguishing Fairlane from the new XD Falcon of that year. The traditional quad headlights and distinctive vertically striped taillights further differentiated the luxury model from Falcon. The trim levels were deleted: now, only a single Fairlane was available, with or V8 engine choices. In October, recognising the fuel crisis, Ford introduced a Fairlane with a inline-six from the Falcon.\n\nThe LTD version of the ZJ surfaced in October 1979 as the FC Series, using the same wheelbase and body panels as the Fairlane. In mid-1980, the Falcon 4.1-litre alloy head engine was made optional, the first time the LTD was available in six-cylinder guise.\n\nThe ZK series of March 1982 had the deletion of the 5.8-L V8, which was the first warning the company would soon drop V8s from the local line-up. Minor changes were made to grille and taillights, but otherwise the external changes were negligible. In March 1983, the 4.9-L V8 was deleted, too, with Ford introducing a fuel-injected version of the six to take its place, claiming the new engine had acceleration figures equivalent to the V8.\n\nThe main notable mechanical change was the introduction of the coil sprung, watts link-located rear axle, one of the best live rear-axle configurations.\n\nThe LTD FC series was updated to and designated FD in March 1982 with the V8 engine option deleted the following year.\nThe revised ZL series of 1985 (launched October 1984) kept the two six-cylinder engine options; only at the end of 1986 was the carburettor version of the Fairlane deleted. The ZL again carried over all external panels, but now had integrated headlights with clear indicators, full wrap-around bumpers, and new taillights. Inside, a full digital dashboard was introduced with push-button controls at either end of the instrument binnacle. The FE series LTD was also released in October 1984.\n\nJune 1988 had the next major revision; the Fairlane's straight edges gave way to gentle curves, based on the EA26 platform Falcon. The philosophy was the same - a long-wheelbase Falcon with a six-light body. The 4.1-L six was heavily revised, becoming a 3.9-L unit with improved fuel economy and power. These models were part of the EA26 development programme and platform (E for the market segment, A for Australia, 26 the project code). Therefore, officially they were EA26s, but colloquially, Ford aficionados prefer a two-letter code. Hence, the new Fairlanes were given the NA series code.\n\nThe equivalent LTDs came on stream as the DA series in June 1988. Like the previous generation, all N-series Fairlanes and D-series LTDs were built on the Falcon/Fairmont station-wagon platform, and this legacy is most noticeable in the disproportionally narrow station-wagon rear doors on what was meant to be a limousine and in a car that otherwise caters well for rear-seat passengers with a large amount of interior seating and legroom space. Nonetheless, these large sedans were \"limousine enough\" to be one of the most common platforms used by Australian body-building companies to make stretch limousines.\n\nRevisions from November 1989 for the 1990 model year had the release of the NA II and DAII, the most notable change being the fitting of a four-speed, rather than three-speed, automatic transmission (since the Fairlane's debut, it had a three-speed).\n\nAlthough Ford Australia's former official historian, the late Adrian Ryan, was emphatic, officially, an NB series Fairlane never existed, at least one early 1989 prototype fitted with a four-speed automatic escaped from the factory bearing a compliance plate marked \"NB\" and was registered as an \"NB Fairlane\". Ford also produced an alloy wheel identification-guide poster for its parts counters listing one wheel as being for an \"NB Sportsman Fairlane\" and at one point the Series II NA likely was going to be called the NB. Third-party parts suppliers also often list both an \"NB Fairlane\" an \"NB – Series II Fairlane\" in their parts catalogues adding to the NB mystery. DOTARS (the Commonwealth Department of Transport and Regional Services) has no record of giving Ford approval to use an \"NB Fairlane\" compliance plate for a production model which might explain Ford's reluctance to officially acknowledge the \"NB\". \n\nAugust 1991 had the news that many Fairlane/LTD purists had awaited: the reintroduction of the V8 in the NC Fairlane and DC-series LTD. Ford had never recovered from deleting the V8s in the 1980s and bowed to public pressure with its reintroduction. The 5.0-L engine was not identical to the one used in the United States Mustang and other passenger cars. For reason of better durability and perhaps cost, it was the Canadian-made Windsor engine used in the North American light truck and 4WD models. To meet the needs of the space required for a right-drive steering column, its inlet manifold was reversed. Again to meet the conversion to right-hand drive and the rerouted inlet ducting, air box, and air conditioning lines, the Australian-installed engines also had most of their serpentine belt-driven accessories on opposite side to the US/North American models. As Australian enthusiasts often found to their frustration, these subtle changes often meant that many Ford Racing/SVO add-on bits, like the available superchargers, were not exactly the bolt-on items they were in North America. The inline six continued. The NC also introduced a higher-spec Fairlane, called the Fairlane Ghia, and the V8 was available in this model.\n\nThe 1992 NC II and DC IIs redesignated the 3.9-L engine a \"4.0-litre\", but trim levels remained the same. To appeal to younger buyers, Ford briefly sold a Fairlane Sportsman Ghia in 1993 with a \"Tickford\"-tuned 4.0-L six used in the Falcon XR6.\nA second, even smaller update, known as the NC III, arrived in August 1993. It is the equivalent to the ED series Falcon, adopting the new \"ozone safe\" R134a air conditioning refrigerant. The base Fairlane model was also discontinued, leaving only the Fairlane Ghia.\n\nFrom March 1994 production, the NC received additional changes - the fitment of a leather-wrapped steering wheel, body-coloured bumpers and side protection strips, new-design alloy wheels, and a bonnet ornament.\n\nAn idea proposed in the late 1980s was a Fairlane wagon. Most likely, had it entered production, it would have used the Falcon wagon (which rode on the Fairlane's wheelbase) body, coupled with the Fairlane's front clip.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the Falcon utilities were still of the previous-generation XF. A prototype EB Falcon utility was made which looked Fairlane-based. To impart a look of solidness, the ute had a Fairlane frontal treatment. It did not enter production.\nThe Fairlane and LTD received a major front and rear restyle in March 1995 (EA77 series in Ford-speak), coinciding with the EF Falcon, and remained on the same platform. The new NF Fairlanes and DF LTDs were longer and curvier, hiding their 1980s origins reasonably well. The exterior design was more ornamental compared to the relatively clean NAs to NCs. The Fairlane Sportsman reappeared for 1996, with the same formula as 1993, with the 4.0-L six.\n\nIn September 1996, the revised NL Fairlanes and DL LTDs appeared. In 1997, Ford introduced a higher Fairlane Concorde trim, with the same 4.0- and 5.0-L engine choices. No Sportsman variant of the Fairlane was offered.\n\nFor customers, five Dealer modified NL Series Fairlanes from Sydney and Melbourne utilised parts from the 5.0-litre Mustang Cobra and Australian delivered SVO parts due to the limited edition run of the Fairlane by Tickford and customers wanting to maintain the Luxury look but sport the GT's performance. The rounded body lines were reminiscent of the US-market Ford Taurus, while the front end styling was similar to the Lincoln Town Car.\n\nFord expanded the Fairlane range greatly in 1998. Beginning with the Ghia, also a basic Concorde (six-cylinder) and Concorde Ghia (V8) were offered. A Tickford-modified version was also available, with the larger engine, as well as a luxurious Fairlane Special Edition Ghia.\n\nThe NL and DL series were the last models to come equipped with automatic self-leveling rear suspension.\nThe New Zealand Government also used the NL Fairlane Ghia as their designated Crown Limousines. Crown Fairlanes were mostly painted Amaretto (a few in white) and were fitted with silver \"Chonchorde\" 16 inch wheels, 6 disc cd stacker, electric adjust drivers seat and New Zealand fitted flag pole mounts on the front guards.\n\nAll of the Fairlane Ghias used by the New Zealand Government were fitted with the factory 4.0L six cylinder engine producing 165kw. The LTD was also used with a few being V8 models. The LTD Crown Cars were a range of colours including Dynamic White, Argon Silver, Mocha Foam and Amaretto in the facelift. \n\nThe NL and DL Crown cars all sported special government only licence plates starting with CR404 in 1997 and continuing in numerical order to CR437 in 1998. Most crown cars were retired after 3 years of service. The Fairlane and LTD had been used by the New Zealand Government since the 1970s through to 2010s where the Ford brand was replaced with BMW 7 series. \n\nThe New Zealand Government still uses CR registration plates on their current Crown Cars.\n\nFord introduced its \"New Edge\" look to the AU series Fairlane in February 1999, with some success, though the EA169 platform was considered a flop, allowing rival Holden to overtake the company in the sales of full-sized cars. The AU LTD was released 3 months later in May.\n\nThe AU Fairlane and LTD models were the first long-wheelbase sedans to share a model code with the Falcon. They had Lincoln Town Car styling cues, especially around the C-pillar. The range was pared back to just two models, the Fairlane Ghia and the LTD, although a limited-edition Fairlane Millennium Ghia was also offered in January 2000. The flagship LTD model was exported to Fiji and to its traditional export market, New Zealand. A small number of LTDs were exported to the United Kingdom, where they were converted into hearses and limousines.\n\nA high-performance variant of the AU Fairlane was released in 1999 as the FTE TL50. Ford brought forward revisions to the Falcon and Fairlane ranges when market acceptance of the new cars proved poor in July 2000. The 2001 model year AU II models featured some improvements, and another limited edition was offered: the 75th Anniversary Ghia in October, with the same engine choices as before. The Sportsman Ghia was revived in March 2001 and lasted for more than one model year this time, remaining in the range to the end of 2002.\n\nFord's new attempt to battle Holden came in July 2003 with the BA series. The BA Fairlanes and LTDs were closer to the Falcon in looks, even sharing the taillights. The 5.0-L gave way to the larger 5.4-L Modular V8, already used in the US From this point the LTD was no longer offered with a six-cylinder engine.\n\nTo capture younger buyers, the Fairlane G220 (denoting its power output at 4,750 rpm and of torque from 3,250–4,000 rpm) took the place of the Fairlane Sportsman, and featured the larger engine only. The traditional automatic gearbox was replaced by a sequential automatic. Unique to the G220 were 17-inch Elegance alloy wheels, ebony headlight bezels with unique lens, and redline leather seats with warm charcoal, perforated leather inserts.\n\nThe Fairlane Ghia continued as the six-cylinder base model, but came standard with colour ICC screen, asix-CD stack, 11-speaker Premium Sound, 7-way adjustable leather seats, and woodgrain inserts.\n\nThe LTD was further distinguished from the Ghia by having the 5.4-L V8 engine, sunroof, 17-inch alloy wheels, LTD badging, 10-way adjustable front seats, bolstered rear seats, satellite navigation, and auto-dimming rear-vision mirror.\n\nBrakes were the same as on the Falcon, with Fairlanes coming standard with electronic brakeforce distribution and traction control.\n\nFollowing Ford Australia's introduction of the BA II Falcon in October 2004, facelifted versions of the Fairlane Ghia, Fairlane G220, and LTD were introduced in March 2005. The changes were mainly cosmetic, but nevertheless significant, and were carried over in the subsequent BF model ranges. The facelifted Fairlane was headlined by a more heavily chromed exterior, including chrome rub strips, a new chromed rear appliqué, and on Fairlane Ghia and LTD, chromed wing mirror covers. The G220 was given new-design seven-spoke alloy wheels, while Fairlane Ghia and LTD added two-toned paint to their side skirts and lower valances.\n\nFor the BA II interior, the black leather seats and leather section of the door trims were replaced with new leather trim dubbed China Beige. The Ghia and G220 gained an eight-way power driver’s seat with memory function. The G220 was given a leather-wrapped sports steering wheel, and the Ghia a Rhui Maple woodgrain and leather steering wheel, and the LTD gained a Stone Maple woodgrain and leather steering wheel.\n\nWhile the only BA II mechanical change was the addition of Sports Control Blade rear-suspension tune for the base Ghia and top-shelf LTD, a DVD rear entertainment system became standard for the LTD, exchangeable for a sunroof.\n\nAn interior upgrade that would be carried over in its entirety to the subsequent BF range was the change from black to brushed silver instrument dials and dash clock, and the silver shifter surround, centre cup holder, and ICC fascia became \"piano black\" with the ICC buttons changed accordingly from black to silver. Chrome door handles, vent tips, and door lock barrels were also added. The original woodgrain trim was retained until the BF.\n\nThe BF series Fairlane and LTD models were introduced in October 2005, with the Fairlane G220 renamed the Fairlane G8. Externally, the BF was outwardly identical to the BA Mark II, but fine tunings to steering, suspension, soundproofing and undercarriage were made. Fuel economy was also improved. Across the whole BF range, the taillight lenses were slightly changed in appearance. The Ghia went from 16-inch to 17-inch alloy wheels as standard.\n\nInterior-wise, the only changes from the upgrades introduced in the BA Mark II were the replacement of the woodgrain inserts with \"satin chrome\" inserts. This colour scheme was the same for all BF Fairlane variants. The BF Ghia and LTD came with black leather seats or China beige leather seats with eight-way adjustable drivers seat and six-way adjustable passenger seat.\n\nThe G8 featured an eight-cylinder engine with improved exhaust system and an additional knock sensor, producing at 5,350 rpm and of torque at 3,500 rpm. It was equipped with a six-speed ZF sports automatic transmission and 2.53:1 (and not for 2.73:1 as some would mistake it) nonlimited-slip final differential ratio. The G8 was distinguished by its 17-inch five-spoke alloy wheels with its firmer suspension and lower profile (225/50) tyres, 'Redline' leather seats with warm charcoal perforated-leather inserts, perforated leather-wrapped steering wheel with brushed aluminium-style inserts, perforated leather-wrapped gearshift with satin inserts, and ebony headlight bezels.\n\nIn addition to having the V8 engine, the LTD featured 17-inch seven-spoke alloy wheels, satellite navigation, ten-way power adjustable front seats with driver's seat memory settings, bolstered rear seats, rear seat DVD player and monitor, front fog lights, a power sunroof, electrochromic (auto-dimming) rear view mirror, a Stone Maple woodgrain and leather-wrapped steering wheel, embroidered floor mats, woodgrain gear shift, and Rabbit Rose woodgrain finishes.\n\nIn May 2007, it was announced that production of the Fairlane and LTD would cease as a decline in sales in its market segment rendered continued production of long-wheelbase models unsustainable. The last Fairlane was produced on 13 December 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280531", "title": "Alexandre Rousselin de Saint-Albin", "text": "Alexandre Rousselin de Saint-Albin\n\nAlexander Charles Omer Rousselin de Corbeau, comte de Saint Albin (1773–1847) was a French politician.\n\nBorn in Paris, of an aristocratic family from the Dauphiné, Rousselin de Saint-Albin was educated at the \"Collège d'Harcourt\". He embraced the ideas of the French Revolution with enthusiasm, sympathised with the Jacobin Club, and later edited the journal \"Feuille du salut public\". As civil commissioner in Troyes, he was accused of by some of enforcing the Reign of Terror, and by the Revolutionary Tribunal of being a moderate, and he was imprisoned for a short time in 1794.\n\nOn his release from the \"Citoyen\" during the Thermidorian Reaction, Rousselin held offices in the Ministry of the Interior, and under the Directory he became secretary-general, and then civil commissioner of the Seine \"département\". Attached to the party of Jean-Baptiste Bernadotte, he was looked on with suspicion by the police of the First French Empire, and during the later years of the Empire spent his time in retirement at Provence. During the Hundred Days, however, he served under Lazare Carnot at the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nUnder the Bourbon Restoration he defended Liberal principles in the \"Constitutionnel\", of which he was the founder. Although Louis Philippe had been his friend since the days of 1789, he accepted no office from the July Monarchy. He retired from the \"Constitutionnel\" in 1838, and died on nine years later.\n\nHis chief literary works deal with the soldiers of the French Revolutionary Wars:\n"}
{"id": "2280533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280533", "title": "1984 in archaeology", "text": "1984 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1984 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280536", "title": "Warren Lichtenstein", "text": "Warren Lichtenstein\n\nWarren G. Lichtenstein (born 1965) is an American businessman and philanthropist. Lichtenstein is founder and executive chairman of Steel Partners Holdings L.P. (NYSE:SPLP), a global diversified holding company. He founded the company in 1990 at the age of 24 after beginning his career as an analyst at Para Partners, L.P. and then serving as an acquisition analyst at Ballantrae Partners, L.P. For the past 25 years, Steel Partners has grown from a private investment fund with two employees and assets of $600,000 into Steel Partners Holdings L.P., a company through its consolidated holdings employs 13,500 people in 155 plants and facilities in 20 countries with a combined revenue of more than $3.6 billion. He is chairman of Steel Partners LLC based in New York City. Lichtenstein is also chairman of Aerojet Rocketdyne Holdings, Inc., an American rocket and missile propulsion manufacturer.\n\nLichtenstein graduated from the University of Pennsylvania with a Bachelor's degree in economics. Before that, he attended Tulane University.\n\nLichtenstein serves as chairman of Steel Sports, Inc., an organization he founded in 2011 focused on transforming and improving the youth sports experience in America. Lichtenstein also provided the initial Seed Funding for both the Positive Coaching Alliance (PCA) Los Angeles Chapter (which launched in June 2015) and the PCA-New York City Chapter (which launched January 2016).\n\nLichtenstein founded a charitable organization called Steel Partners Foundation that was a significant donor to the building of the Chabad Jewish Community Center Aspen Valley Aspen, Colorado. Steel Partners Foundation provided funding to the Aspen Art Museum, for its new building that opened in 2014. The building was designed by the Japanese architect Shigeru Ban, winner of the 2014 Pritzker Prize. Steel Partners Foundation also participated in the campaign to rebuild Tulane University after it was hit by Hurricane Katrina and 70% of the main campus was flooded and donated challenge funding to the University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences to help establish 19 new student scholarships.\n\nLichtenstein has two children. A son by his first marriage and a daughter with Annabelle Bond. He was ordered to pay back child support in the largest child support case in Hong Kong history. Lichtenstein applied to the courts for more time with his daughter and in 2016 hosted a Think Tank on Parental Alienation with actor Jason Patric and professor and psychiatrist William Bernet, an editor of “Parental Alienation”.\n"}
{"id": "2280541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280541", "title": "Sherie Rene Scott", "text": "Sherie Rene Scott\n\nSherie Rene Scott (born February 8, 1967) is an American actress, singer, writer and producer. She has been seen in multiple Broadway and Off-Broadway plays and musicals, on numerous solo and original cast recordings, and in various film and television roles.\n\nScott was born in Kentucky. When she was 4 years old, her family moved to Topeka, Kansas, where she grew up. Scott moved from Topeka to New York City when she was 18 to attend the Neighborhood Playhouse School of the Theatre. She is a writer in residence at Second Stage Theater and lives with her son in New York City.\n\nOn Broadway Scott has starred in \"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels\", garnering nominations for a Tony Award, a Drama Desk Award and an Outer Critics Circle Award. She starred as Amneris in Elton John and Tim Rice's \"Aida\" (2000), for which she won the Clarence Derwent Award and was a Drama League Honoree. The single \"A Step Too Far\" performed by Elton John, Heather Headley and Sherie Rene Scott from the 1999 Elton John And Tim Rice \"Aida\" concept album charted at #15.\n\nScott's \"You May Now Worship Me\", co-authored with Dick Scanlan, raised $200,000 to benefit the Phyllis Newman's Women's Health Initiative of The Actor's Fund. The one night only fundraiser premiered March 31, 2008 at The Eugene O'Neill Theatre. \"You May Now Worship Me\" would later become the concept behind \"Everyday Rapture\".\n\nIn 2010, Scott starred in the critically acclaimed production \"Everyday Rapture\", which Scott wrote with co-author Dick Scanlan. \"Everyday Rapture\" began its run on Broadway at the American Airlines Theatre in previews April 19, 2010, and officially opened on April 29, 2010. The show played to sold out audiences throughout the run, finally ending its limited engagement on July 11, 2010. Scott received Tony Award nominations for Best Book, and Best Leading Actress in a Musical, and Drama Desk Award nominations in the categories of Best Leading Actress, Best Book, and Best Musical for \"Rapture\".\n\nOther Broadway credits include Sally Simpson in \"Tommy\" (1993), Marty in \"Grease\" (1995–96), and Maureen in \"Rent\" (1997). She originated the role of Ursula in \"The Little Mermaid\" (2007) for which she received her second Outer Critics Circle Award nomination for Outstanding Featured Actress in a Musical. She starred as Pepa in the musical adaptation of \"Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown\", on Broadway, which opened on November 4, 2010. For this role she was nominated for the Drama Desk Award for Outstanding Actress in a Musical.\n\nScott appeared in \"The Front Page\" as Mollie Malloy with an all-star cast including Nathan Lane, John Slattery, Holland Taylor, John Goodman, Jefferson Mays and Robert Morse. Jack O'Brien directed the production that premiered on Broadway in fall 2016 at the Broadhurst Theatre.\n\n\"Whorl Inside a Loop\", written by Scott and Dick Scanlan, premiered August 27, 2015 at the Second Stage Theatre. Directed by Michael Mayer and Scanlan, \"Whorl\" garnered critical acclaim, including several 'Best of 2015 Theater' Lists.\n\nOff-Broadway roles include John Guare's play \"Landscape of the Body\" at the Signature Theatre, for which she received a 2006 Obie Award and a Lucille Lortel Award and was a Drama League honoree. Musicals include Jason Robert Brown's \"The Last Five Years\" for which she received a Drama Desk Award nomination, and the title role in \"\".\n\nScott can be heard on the original off-Broadway cast recording of \"The Last Five Years\" along with Norbert Leo Butz. She is an executive producer of the film \"The Last Five Years\" starring Anna Kendrick and Jeremy Jordan. Scott also makes an appearance in the film.\n\nIn regional theatre, she has appeared in world premiere productions of \"Randy Newman's Faust\" (1995). She appeared in Kander and Ebb's \"Over and Over\", at the Signature Theatre, which was a musical adaptation of \"The Skin of Our Teeth\", receiving a nomination for a Helen Hayes Award.\n\nScott co-founded the Grammy Award–winning Sh-K-Boom Records and Ghostlight Records, which seeks to preserve original cast albums and solo recordings by Broadway artists. The records, produced over 150 albums, garnered 3 Grammy awards, and 12 Grammy nominations. SKB/Ghostlight's Grammy Awards include those for the cast albums of \"In the Heights\", \"The Book of Mormon\" and \"Beautiful\". SKB/Ghostlight received a 2006 Drama Desk Award for dedication to the preservation of musical theatre through cast recordings. The label won their first Grammy in 2009 for the Original Cast Recording of \"In The Heights\". Scott can be heard on numerous Grammy Award-winning and OBC cast albums, the Billboard hit single \"A Step Too Far\" with Elton John, \"The Folks Who Live On The Hill\" with jazz great Bill Charlap, as well as the critically acclaimed, \"Sherie Rene…Men I've Had,\" \"Everyday Rapture\" the original Broadway cast album, and \"All Will Be Well: The Piece Of Meat Studio Sessions\", produced with Todd Almond. \n\nScott did a try-out of her new, \"critically acclaimed\" work, \"Piece of Meat\", in collaboration with Todd Almond, in the 2012 Adelaide Cabaret Festival and premiered it in New York City at 54 Below from October 16–27, 2012. \n\nFrom July 9-28, 2019, she wrote and starred in an original musical collaboration titled TWOHANDER at Feinstein's/54 Below alongside Norbert Leo Butz, with musical director Todd Almond. Scott previously shared the stage with Butz in the original productions of the musicals \"Dirty Rotten Scoundrels\" and \"The Last Five Years\".\n\nSource: Internet Broadway Database\nSource: Amazon.com\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280543", "title": "Santa Lucia", "text": "Santa Lucia\n\n\"Santa Lucia\" (, ) is a traditional Neapolitan song. It was translated by Teodoro Cottrau (1827–1879) into Italian and published by the Cottrau firm, as a \"barcarola\", in Naples in 1849. Cottrau translated it from Neapolitan into Italian during the first stage of the Italian unification, the first Neapolitan song to be given Italian lyrics. Its transcriber, who is very often credited as its composer, was the son of the French-born Italian composer and collector of songs Guillaume Louis Cottrau (1797–1847). Various sources credit A. Longo with the music, 1835.\n\nThe original lyrics of \"Santa Lucia\" celebrate the picturesque waterfront district, Borgo Santa Lucia, in the Gulf of Naples, in the invitation of a boatman to take a turn in his boat, to better enjoy the cool of the evening.\n\n<poem>Comme se frícceca\nla luna chiena!\nlo mare ride,\nll'aria è serena...\nÈ pronta e lesta\nla varca mia...\nSanta Lucia,\nSanta Lucia!\n\nStu viento frisco\nfa risciatare:\nchi vo' spassarse\njenno pe' mmare?\nVuje che facite\n'mmiezo a la via?\nSanta Lucia,\nSanta Lucia!\n\nLa tènna è posta\npe' fa' 'na cena;\ne quanno stace\nla panza chiena\nnon c'è la mínema\nmelanconia.\nSanta Lucia,\nSanta Lucia!\n</poem>\n\n<poem>Pozzo accostare la varca mia\nSanta Lucia, Santa Lucia!</poem>\n\n<poem>Now 'neath the silver moon Ocean is glowing,\nO'er the calm billows, soft winds are blowing.\nHere balmy breezes blow, pure joys invite us,\nAnd as we gently row, all things delight us.\n\nChorus:\nHark, how the sailor's cry joyously echoes nigh:\nSanta Lucia, Santa Lucia!\nHome of fair Poesy, realm of pure harmony,\nSanta Lucia, Santa Lucia!\n\nWhen o'er the waters light winds are playing,\nThy spell can soothe us, all care allaying.\nTo thee sweet Napoli, what charms are given,\nWhere smiles creation, toil blest by heaven.</poem>\n\nPerhaps the definitive 20th century recording of the song was that of Enrico Caruso, the great Neapolitan opera singer. Mario Lanza recorded this song in this album \"Mario Lanza sings Caruso favorites\", RCA Victor LSC-2393.\n\nIn the United States, an early edition of the song, with an English translation by Thomas Oliphant, was published by M. McCaffrey, Baltimore. \n\nIn Sweden, Finland, Denmark, the Faroe Islands, and Norway, \"Santa Lucia\" has been given various lyrics to accommodate it to the winter-light Saint Lucy's Day, at the darkest time of the year. The three most famous lyrics versions in Swedish are \"Luciasången\", also known by its incipit, \"Sankta Lucia, ljusklara hägring\" (\"Saint Lucy, bright illusion\"); \"Natten går tunga fjät\" (\"The night walks with heavy steps\"); and the 1970s \"kindergarten\" version, \"Ute är mörkt och kallt\" (\"Outside it’s dark and cold\"). The more common Norwegian version is \"Svart senker natten seg\" (\"Black the night descends\").\n\nIn the Czech Republic (or former Czechoslovakia), it was made famous with the words \"Krásná je Neapol\" sung by Waldemar Matuška.\n\nIn Austria it is famous under the title \"Wenn sich der Abend mild\". It is sung by Austrian fraternities.\n\nIn Thailand a translation, \"Silpakorn Niyom\" (), is the anthem of Silpakorn University; the founder of the university, Silpa Bhirasri, was Italian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280547", "title": "1988 in archaeology", "text": "1988 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1988 in archaeology involved some significant events.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280551", "title": "Suyo", "text": "Suyo\n\nSuyo may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2280552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280552", "title": "The Funeral of God", "text": "The Funeral of God\n\nThe Funeral of God is the seventh full-length album by metalcore band Zao. Released on July 13, 2004 through Ferret Records in the US, and on July 12, 2004 through Roadrunner and Ferret in Europe and Asia. It saw the return of guitarist, Russ Cogdell, and the addition of bassist Shawn Koschik and drummer Stephen Peck after the departure of Jesse Smith. A music video was made for the song \"The Rising End (The First Prophecy)\".\n\nOriginally the album was going to be called, \"Live... from the Funeral of God\", but the band's management was concerned that fans might construe that to mean it's a live recording, so the title was shortened.\n\nThe album is a concept album, narrating an apocalyptic story in which God, fed up with the path chosen by humanity, decides to disappear, leaving humanity to its fate. Subsequently, the world falls into a state of war and self-destruction. However, man soon reverts to a state in which he waits for God to return.\n\nSounding different from most albums Zao have released, this record is a swing towards bands such as Killswitch Engage and Shadows Fall. It also goes for a more melodic sound than their past albums, such as in the song \"Psalm of the City of the Dead\".\n\nZAO\nAdditional Musicians\n\n"}
{"id": "2280554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280554", "title": "Mungo people", "text": "Mungo people\n\nThe Mungo (Moungo) are an ethnic group of the Republic of Cameroon. Along with the other coastal peoples, they belong to the Sawa ethnic groups. The Mungo have historically been dominated by the Duala people, and the two groups share similar cultures, histories, and claims of origin.\n\nThe Mungo share no singular origin story. Some claim the same history as the Duala and Limba, descending from a man named Mbedi. From a place called Piti (northeast of Douala), Mbedi's sons Ewale and Dibongo migrated south toward the Cameroon coast. while others trace their ancestry to a man named Lokula who migrated east from near Efik territory in modern-day Nigeria. The former tradition seems more likely, however, and the Nigerian story possibly indicates that later settlers entered Limba country from Efik territories at some point and assimilated.\n\nBy the 16th century, the Duala had become the leading traders in Cameroon. The Mungo provided goods and slaves to the Duala in exchange for goods obtained from the Europeans, such as alcohol, gunpowder, guns, mirrors, shoes, textiles, and tools.\n\nIn 1918, Germany lost World War I, and her colonies became mandates of the League of Nations. Great Britain and France split the administration of the Kameruns, partitioning the Cameroonian Littoral. The Mungo were divided in two.\nThe Mungo live along the Mungo River's lower stretch and the creeks that feed it. Their territory straddles the border of the Moungo division of the Littoral Province and the Fako division of the Southwest Province. Fishing is the primary means of subsistence.\n\nThe Mungo who speak a dialect of Duala. Duala is part of the Bantu group of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nIn addition, individuals who have attended school or lived in an urban centre usually speak a European language. For Littoral Mungo, this is French; for Southwest Mungo, it is Cameroonian Pidgin English or standard English; and for the Mungo it is one or the other. A growing number of the Anglophones today grow up with Pidgin as their first tongue.\n\nThe Mungo are regular attendees of the annual Ngondo, a traditional festival of the Sawa peoples. The goal is to communicate with the ancestors and ask them for guidance and protection for the future. The festivities also include armed combat, beauty pageants, pirogue races, and traditional wrestling.\n\nThe Mungo are Bantu in language and origin. More narrowly, they fall into the Sawa, or the coastal peoples of Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280556", "title": "Mama Koite Doumbia", "text": "Mama Koite Doumbia\n\nMama Koite Doumbia is a Malian and a member of the Economic, Social and Cultural Council of the African Union, representing West Africa.\n\nMama Koite Doumbia holds a higher diploma in youth training.\nShe was elected chairperson of the African Women's Development and Communication Network (FEMNET) in 2003.\nIn this role she was a member of the Permanent Committee of the Economic, Social and Cultural Council of the African Union.\nIn February 2011 she received the 2011 FAMEDEV Gender Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280557", "title": "Subu people", "text": "Subu people\n\nThe Isubu (Isuwu, Bimbians) are an ethnic group who inhabit part of the coast of Cameroon. Along with other coastal peoples, they belong to Cameroon's Sawa ethnic groups. They were one of the earliest Cameroonian peoples to make contact with Europeans, and over two centuries, they became influential traders and middlemen. Under the kings William I of Bimbia and Young King William, the Isubu formed a state called Bimbia.\n\nThe predominant Isubu oral history holds that the ethnic group hails from Mboko, the area southwest of Mount Cameroon. Tradition makes them the descendants of Isuwu na Monanga, who led their migration to the west bank of the Wouri estuary. When a descendant of Isuwu named Mbimbi became king, the people began to refer to their territories as Bimbia.\n\nPortuguese traders reached the Wouri estuary in 1472. Over the next few decades, more Europeans came to explore the estuary and the rivers that feed it, and to establish trading posts. The Isubu carved out a role for themselves as middlemen, trading ivory, kola nuts, and peppers from the interior. However, a major commodity was slaves, most bound for plantations on nearby islands such as Annobon, Fernando Po, Príncipe, and São Tomé. By the 16th century, the Isubu were second only to the Duala in trade. The earliest Isubu merchants were likely chiefs or headmen. Bimbia, the primary Isubu settlement, grew quickly.\n\nEuropeans traders did their best to support friendly chiefs against their rivals, adulating them with titles such as \"King\", \"Prince\", or \"Chief\". In exchange, these indigenes offered trade monopolies to their patrons and sometimes ceded land. An Isubu chief named Bile became leader of the Isubu as King William, although Dick Merchant of Dikolo village and other chiefs eventually opposed his dominance.\n\nBritish traders became the dominant European presence in the region by the mid-19th century, and the Crown used them to enforce abolition of the slave trade in the Gulf of Guinea. In 1844 and 1848, King William signed anti-slavery treaties. In exchange, the traders provided him with annual gifts of alcohol, guns, textiles, and other goods. William was also asked to forbid practices the British viewed as barbaric, such as sacrificing a chief's wife upon his death. With William's blessing, Bimbia became a haven for repatriated slaves and escapees from the illicit trade, which continued for many more years.\n\nThe British also endeavored to educate and Christianise the Bimbians. King William rebuffed the earliest missionaries because he did not agree with their insistence on prayer and opposition to polygamy. In 1844, however, Joseph Merrick convinced William to let him open a church and school in Bimbia. In 1858, the Spanish ousted Protestant missionaries from their base at Fernando Po. King William sold a portion of his domains to the missionary Alfred Saker, who then founded Victoria (today known as Limbe). By 1875, numerous missions and schools sprung up in Victoria and other settlements. Victoria came to be a mixture of freed slaves, working Cameroonians, and Christianised Cameroonians from the various coastal groups. Cameroonian Pidgin English began to develop at this time.\n\nIsubu society was changed fundamentally by the European trade. European goods became status symbols, and some rulers appointed Western traders and missionaries as advisors. Large numbers of Isubu grew wealthy, leading to rising class tensions. Competition escalated between coastal groups and even between related settlements. Between 1855 and 1879, the Isubu alone engaged in at least four conflicts, both internal and with rival ethnic groups. Traders exploited this atmosphere, and beginning in 1860, German, French, and Spanish merchants had established contacts and weakened the British monopoly. The Duala had gained a virtual hegemony over trade through the Wouri estuary, and the Isubu had little power left. Young King William was virtually powerless when he succeeded his father in 1878.\n\nIn July 1884, the Isubu found themselves part of the German Empire after annexation by Gustav Nachtigal. Coastal territory became the heart of the new colony, but Bimbia and the Isubu lands had already passed their prime.\n\nGerman arrival on the mainland meant that the coastal peoples' monopoly on trade had ended. Most Isubu turned to subsistence farming or fishing to survive. However, years of contact with Westerners and a high level of literacy had allowed a literate upper class of Isubu clerks, farmers, and traders to emerge in Victoria and Buea. This class were familiar with European law and conventions, which allowed them to pressure the German colonial government with petitions, legal proceedings, and special interest groups to oppose unpopular or unfair policies.\n\nIn 1918, Germany lost World War I, and her colonies became mandates of the League of Nations. The British became the new colonial rulers of Isubu lands. Great Britain integrated its portion of Cameroon with the neighbouring colony of Nigeria, setting the new province's capital at Buea. The British practiced a policy of indirect rule, entrusting greater powers to Bakweri and Isubu chiefs in Buea and Victoria. Chief Manga Williams of Victoria became one of two representatives to the Nigerian Eastern House of Assembly. He was succeeded by another Isubu, John Manga Williams.\n\nThe Isubu are primarily concentrated in the Fako division of Cameroon's Southwest Province. Their settlements lie largely along the coast or just inland, east of Limbe and west of Douala. They occupy the coast directly east of the Wovea, with their main settlement at Bimbia. The town of Limbe is a mixture of Isubu and other ethnic groups.\n\nThe Isubu today are divided into the urban and rural. Those who live in the cities earn a living at a number of skilled and unskilled professions. The rural Isubu work as fishermen and farmers, mostly at the subsistence level.\n\nIsu is the Isubu language. In addition, many Isubu speak Duala or Mokpwe, the languages of the Duala and Bakweri respectively. Isu is part of the Bantu group of the Niger–Congo language family.\n\nIn addition, individuals who have attended school or lived in an urban centre usually speak a European language. For some Isubu, this is French; for others, it is Cameroonian Pidgin English or standard English. A growing number of the Anglophones today grow up with Pidgin as their first tongue.\n\nThe Isubu have been mostly Christianized since the 1930s. Evangelical denominations dominate, particularly the Baptist church. Nevertheless, remnants of a pre-Christian ancestor worship persist. Isubu belief states that the ancestors live in a parallel world and act as mediators between the living and God (\"Jengu\").\n\nThe Isubu participate in the annual Ngondo, a traditional festival of the Duala, although today all of Cameroon's coastal peoples are invited. The main focus is on communicating with the ancestors and asking them for guidance and protection for the future. The festivities also include armed combat, beauty pageants, pirogue races, and traditional wrestling.\n\nThe Isubu are Bantu in language and origin. More narrowly, they fall into the Sawa, or the coastal peoples of Cameroon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280561", "title": "Annie Glenn", "text": "Annie Glenn\n\nAnna Margaret Glenn (née Castor; February 17, 1920May 19, 2020) was an American advocate for people with disabilities and communication disorders and the wife of astronaut and senator John Glenn. A stutterer from an early age, Glenn was notable for raising awareness of stuttering among children and adults as well as other disabilities.\n\nAnna Margaret Castor was born on February 17, 1920, in Columbus, Ohio, to Homer and Margaret (Alley) Castor. Her father was a dentist. In 1923, the Castor family moved to New Concord, Ohio.  \n\nCastor met John Glenn at a very young age when her parents became involved in the same community organizations as Glenn's parents. The families developed a friendship which allowed Castor and Glenn to remain close as they grew up. The pair became high school sweethearts and continued dating through college. Castor attended Muskingum College where she majored in music with a minor in secretarial skills and physical education. Castor was an active member of the swim team, volleyball team, and tennis team. She graduated in 1942. Even though she received an offer for a pipe organ scholarship from the Juilliard School, Castor declined the offer, choosing instead to stay in Ohio with Glenn. Castor and Glenn were married on April 6, 1943. They had two children, David, born in 1945, and Lyn, born in 1947.\n\nDuring the early years of her marriage to John Glenn, Annie Glenn worked as an organist in various churches and taught trombone lessons.\n\nThroughout the middle of the twentieth century, the Cold War tensions between the United States of America and the Soviet Union heightened. In an effort to boost American citizens' confidence in their government, U.S. President Dwight Eisenhower decided to become involved in the Space Race and launch Project Mercury. Seven young men were chosen for this space mission. These all-American astronauts were regarded as wholesome heroes and their wives were the picture of domestic patriotism. Annie Glenn was one of the wives of the Mercury 7 astronauts. These women \"rocketed to fame\" to become celebrities.\n\nIn her book \" The Astronaut Wives Club\" (which later became a television miniseries), Lily Koppel relates that Glenn and the other six wives formed a tight-knit support group informally called the \"Astronaut Wives Club,\" which she cites as influential in shaping American identity, as Americans found their values of family, patriotism, and consumerism embodied in Glenn. Koppel states that American women turned to Glenn, who had been elevated in the media because of her all-American family, as a role model on how to maintain a happy home, and also an indirect propagator of the American value of consumption. The appearance of the Astronaut Wives in the media was marketed to average American housewives. For example, when the wives wore a shade of \"responsible pink\" lipstick to a \"Life\" photoshoot, the published photographs were retouched to show the wives wearing \"patriotic red\" lipstick instead. The lip color was changed to represent a new, vibrant period in American history. After the magazine was published, red lipstick became a fad. Similarly, while Mercury 7 astronauts were given sporty Corvettes to drive, the wives were strongly encouraged to keep their family-friendly station wagons, which meant that the average American housewives who were following the Astronaut Wives' example also bought station wagons. As a result of Glenn and the other members of the Astronaut Wives Club, women across the U.S. were inspired to be brave and of course, to buy the same consumer goods Glenn and the other wives had in their homes.\n\nLike her father, Annie Glenn experienced a speech stutter throughout her life. As a child, Glenn did not feel hindered by her stutter; she happily participated in activities such as softball, girl scouts, school dances, and choir. It was not until sixth grade that she first realized her speech impairment. It was determined that her stutter was present in eighty-five percent of her verbal utterances. Despite her difficulty speaking, she was able to create and maintain close relationships. After graduating college, Glenn wanted to get a job in a different town but because of her disability, her parents were worried about her living independently. However, Glenn found ways to effectively communicate without speaking out loud. For example, before shopping, she would write down exactly what she was looking for and then show the note to the sales clerk when she needed help.\n\nAt the age of 53, Glenn discovered and attended a three-week treatment course at Hollins Communications Research Institute in Roanoke, Virginia, to help with her dysfluency. After attending the treatment course, her speech was greatly improved; however, she did not consider herself \"cured\" of stuttering. Glenn was finally able to confidently vocally interact with others. When her husband began campaigning for the Senate, she was able to support him by giving speeches at public events and at rallies. Glenn used her newfound voice to bring attention to the disabled who she knew had been overlooked so often.\n\nLater, Glenn became an adjunct professor with Ohio State's Speech Pathology Department.\n\nIn 1983, Glenn received the first national award of the American Speech and Hearing Association for her meritorious service to those with communicative disorders. In 1987, the National Association for Hearing and Speech Action awarded the first annual Annie Glenn Award for achieving distinction despite a communication disorder. Glenn presented the award to James Earl Jones as its first recipient. She was inducted into the National Stuttering Association Hall of Fame in 2004. In 2015, The Ohio State University renamed 17th Avenue (on its campus) to Annie and John Glenn Avenue.\n\nIn 2009, the Ohio State University awarded her an honorary Doctorate of Public Service to recognize her work on behalf of children and others. The department awards the \"Annie Glenn Leadership Award\" annually to a person that has displayed innovative and inspirational work in speech/language pathology.\n\nOrganizations in which she was involved include:\n\nAt the time of her husband's death in December 2016, Annie and John Glenn had been married for 73 years and eight months. During the course of their marriage, the couple had two children—John David, born in 1945, and Carolyn Ann, born in 1947—and two grandchildren.\n\nGlenn turned 100 in February 2020. Three months later, on May 19, 2020, she died at a nursing home in Saint Paul, Minnesota, from complications of COVID-19 during the COVID-19 pandemic in Minnesota.\n\nGlenn was played by Mary Jo Deschanel in the 1983 film \"The Right Stuff\". The film highlighted her stutter, particularly in a scene involving U.S.\nVice President Lyndon B. Johnson. In a 2015 interview, she and John Glenn indicated that, although they liked the Tom Wolfe book, they did not care for the movie adaptation of \"The Right Stuff\".\n\nIn the 2015 ABC-TV series \"The Astronaut Wives Club\", she is portrayed by Azure Parsons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280568", "title": "Causing a Commotion", "text": "Causing a Commotion\n\n\"Causing a Commotion\" is a song by American singer Madonna from the soundtrack to the 1987 film \"Who's That Girl\". It was released as the album's second single on August 25, 1987 by Sire Records. Its Silver Screen Single Mix later appeared on the 1991 UK compilation EP \"The Holiday Collection\". Written and produced by Madonna and Stephen Bray, the song was inspired by Madonna's relationship with then husband Sean Penn, and his abusive and violent nature. Containing a dance-oriented, up-tempo groove, the song begins with the chorus and is accompanied by a four-note descending bassline and staccato chords in the verse.\n\nSince its release, the song has received mixed to positive reviews by critics. It became a top-ten hit in the United States, Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, Sweden and the United Kingdom, and topped the \"Billboard\" US dance chart. Madonna performed the song on the Who's That Girl World Tour – which was transmitted via satellite to the 1987 MTV Video Music Awards – and the Blond Ambition World Tour in 1990. The performances were included in the home video release of the tours.\n\nIn 1986, Madonna was shooting for her third motion picture \"Who's That Girl\", known at the time as \"Slammer\". Needing songs for the soundtrack of the movie, she contacted Patrick Leonard and Stephen Bray, with whom she had written and produced her third studio album \"True Blue\" in 1986. The song was written and produced by Madonna and Bray for the film's soundtrack. It was inspired by her then husband Sean Penn and their often tumultuous relationship. Madonna felt that her marriage to Penn was on the verge of breaking up, due to Penn's abusive and violent nature. That translated as the inspiration behind the song. In a \"Rolling Stone\" article dated September 10, 1987, Madonna spoke about Penn's impact on her life,\n\n\"I don't like violence. I never condone hitting anyone, and I never thought that any violence should have taken place. But on the other hand, I understood Sean's anger and believe me, I have wanted to hit them [the paparazzi] many times. I never would, you know, because I realize that it would just make things worse.\"\n\nIn the United States, \"Causing a Commotion\" was released in August 1987. In the United Kingdom, the song was released just before the commencement of Madonna's 1987 Who's That Girl World Tour in October. In 1991, the Silver Screen Single Mix of the song was included on Madonna's \"The Holiday Collection\" EP.\n\n\"Causing a Commotion\" was recorded and mixed by Bray along with Shep Pettibone who also did additional production on the track. Junior Vasquez was the mixing engineer along with Steve Peck; the former also did the audio editing. Background vocals were provided by Donna De Lory and Niki Haris. \"Causing a Commotion\" has a dancey, up-tempo groove in it. The musical arrangement consists of a number of hooks interpolating with each other. It begins with the chorus, where Madonna sings the line \"I've got the moves baby, You've got the motion, If we got together we be causing a commotion.\" The verses are accompanied by a four-note descending bassline and interjecting staccato chords.\n\nThe lyrics make reference to Madonna's 1985 single \"Into the Groove\" and have three parts to the vocal harmony. Andrzej Ciuk, one of the editors of the book \"Exploring Space\" noted that the proverbial status of the phrase \"opposites attract\" as a defining key ingredient of cultural concept of \"love\" and this was evident also in the song with the lyrics: \"You met your match when you met me, I know that you'll disagree its crazy, But \"opposites attract\" you'll see, And I won't let you get away so easy\".\n\nThe song received generally mixed to positive reviews. Rikky Rooksby, author of \"The Complete Guide to the Music of Madonna\", said that the song was \"Perfectly acceptable, though not in the same class as 'Who's That Girl'.\" Christian Wright from \"Spin\" called the song celebratory. Camille Paglia, one of the authors of \"The Madonna Companion: Two Decades of Commentary\", said that Madonna's command of massive, resonant basslines impressed her. She wrote: \"I recall my stunned admiration as I sat in the theater in 1987 and first experienced the crashing, descending chords of Madonna's 'Causing a Commotion', which opened her dreadful movie \"Who's That Girl\". If you want to hear the essence of modernity, listen to those chords, infernal, apocalyptic, and grossly sensual. This is the authentic voice of \"fin de siècle\".\" Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic commented that \"Causing a Commotion\" and \"Who's That Girl\" were not among Madonna's best singles. Matthew Jacobs from \"HuffPost\", placed it at number 46 of his list \"The Definitive Ranking Of Madonna Singles\", calling it \"cheerful, until you learn it was inspired by her abusive relationship with Sean Penn\".\n\nIn August 2018, \"Billboard\" ranked it as the singer's 85th greatest song; Joel Lynch wrote that only Madonna \"could release a song this lightweight from a critically drubbed film and still take it to No. 2 on the Hot 100. The arresting, thick AF bass line and the sugary determination of her delivery make this a delight, albeit a relatively slight one\". \"Slant Magazine\"s Eric Henderson called it \"somehow generic and diverting in equal measure, ['Causing a Commotion'] offers one of Madonna’s most undeniable come-on lines at the center of it all\". Louis Virtel from The Backlot ranked it at number 16 on a list for \"The 100 Greatest Madonna Songs\", and called it \"jubilant and driving\". Writing for \"Gay Star News\", Joe Morgan deemed it an \"absolute gem\" that \"unfortunately sinks in the background when it comes to Madonna’s 80s classics\". \"The Guardian\"s Jude Rogers described it as \"a slighter facsimile of the imperial 'Into the Groove', protesting too much about its abilities to coax out the noise police\". For Medium's Richard LaBeau, \"there is nothing especially bad about this track, but it is profoundly forgettable, particularly in comparison with the brilliant singles that preceded and followed it\".\n\n\"Causing a Commotion\" debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 singles chart at number 41 the week of September 12, 1987, as \"Who's That Girl\" was descending from the top ten. The single quickly climbed up the chart, ultimately peaking at number two the week of October 24, 1987, blocked from the pole position by Michael Jackson's \"Bad\" and Tiffany's \"I Think We're Alone Now.\" It remained in the runner-up position for three consecutive weeks, before descending from the chart. The song reached the top 40 of the \"Billboard\" Adult Contemporary chart and hit number one on the Hot Dance Club Play chart. In Canada, the song debuted at number 90, on the \"RPM\" singles chart on September 19, 1987. After six weeks, the song reached a peak of number two on the chart. It was present for a total of 31 weeks and ranked at number 47 on the \"RPM\" Year-end chart for 1987.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Causing a Commotion\" was released on September 19, 1987. It entered the UK Singles Chart at number seven, and peaked at number four. The song was present for a total of nine weeks. According to the Official Charts Company, the song has sold 230,000 copies there. In Germany, the song debuted on the Media Control Charts at number 66 on September 29, 1987, reaching a peak of number 14 in its third week, and spending 12 weeks on the chart. The song reached the top ten in Australia and the European Hot 100 Singles, peaking at number seven and three respectively. Elsewhere, the song reached the top ten in Belgium, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand and Switzerland and the top 20 in Austria, Norway and Sweden.\n\nMadonna performed \"Causing a Commotion\" on the Who's That Girl World Tour of 1987 and the Blond Ambition World Tour in 1990. In the Who's That Girl World Tour, \"Causing a Commotion\" was the sixth song of the setlist. Collaborating with Marlene Stewart on the clothes for the tour, Madonna expanded on the idea of bringing her video characters to life and to display a gangster theme for the song. She wore a golden lamé jacket and performed the song while accompanied by two dancers, each holding a gun. Performances of the song on this tour can be found on the \"Who's That Girl: Live in Japan\" video, filmed in Tokyo, Japan, on June 22, 1987, and on the \"\" video, filmed in Turin, Italy, on September 4, 1987. The latter performance was transmitted via satellite on the 1987 MTV Video Music Awards.\n\nOn the Blond Ambition World Tour, the song was performed as the third song of the set list. The outfit she wore for the performance was described by Carol Clerk, author of \"Madonnastyle\", as the \"perfect visual combination of masculine and feminine\". It consisted of a double-breasted suit with a tight jacket, which was cut in slits, allowing her conical bra to point through. She also wore her characteristic monocle chain. Madonna wore heavy makeup with thick, blackened eyebrows and heavy application of dark liner. As she finished the performance of \"Open Your Heart\", Madonna opened the jacket and started to simulate sexual intercourse with one of her dancers while playing the dominant role. It was followed by an exhibitionist dance routine with a chair as a prop and Madonna singing the song. The performance ended with Madonna wrestling with her female backup singers. Two different performances were released on video: the \"Blond Ambition Japan Tour 90\", taped in Yokohama, Japan, on April 27, 1990, and the \"Blond Ambition World Tour Live\", taped in Nice, France, on August 5, 1990.\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the album's liner notes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2280571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280571", "title": "Banna", "text": "Banna\n\nBanna may refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "2280572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280572", "title": "Batac", "text": "Batac\n\n' (), officially the ', is a component in the province of , . According to the , it has a population of people.\n\nThe word \"Batac\" translates as \"pull\" in the Ilocano language. More loosely, it refers to \"the people's pulling their efforts together.\"\n\nBatac has an interesting colloquial origin of its name. According to a legend, set in pre-settlement Batac, a man fell into a deep hole while he was digging for the root crop \"camangeg\". He struggled to get out but could not despite his best efforts. He cried for help but nobody was around. He waited for hours and had given up hope of being saved. Two men from the neighboring town of Paoay happened to pass by. They heard the man shouting and traced it to where he was trapped. Upon seeing him, they heard the man said \"Batakennak! Batakennak!\" The two men did not understand until the man explained that he was saying, \"Pull me up! Pull me up!\" They did just that. When the two men reached their hometown, they told their story to their friends. Since then, the town has been called \"Batac,\" which is derived from the word \"batakennak.\"\n\nBatac was founded by the Augustinians in 1587 under the patronage of the Immaculate Conception. It is the second oldest town established by the Augustinians in the province of Ilocos Norte. Hence, in 1987, Batac reached its 4th centennial.\n\nBatac was officially organized into a ministry on January 5, 1586. The first priest assigned to cathecize the natives of tile community was Esteban Marin, an Augustinian who probably arrived in Batac in 1585. Paoay and Dinglas (Dingras) were then the visitas of Batac.\n\nFolk history states that there were two villages in Batac during the early part of tile foundation of the town, one was an Itneg community which occupied sitio Nangalisan and a Christian community occupying San José.\n\nThe first site of tile poblacion was in San José, which is now called Barangay Palpalicong. It is said that the ethnic minority groups of Bangui and Nueva Era are the pre-Spanish descendants of early inhabitants of Batac.\n\nThe Augustinians considered the people of Batac more civilized than tile other tribes, because they were better than the other \"Indios\" in personal cleanliness.\n\nRepublic Act 9407, the law that converted the Municipality of Batac into a component city in the Province of Ilocos Norte, to be known as Batac City, was overwhelmingly ratified by the people in a plebiscite conducted on June 23, 2007.\n\nBatac is located in the northwest of Luzon island, about from the eastern shores of the South China Sea, and from Metro Manila and from Laoag, the provincial capital. The municipalities of Banna, Currimao, Paoay, Pinili, Sarrat, Marcos and San Nicolas form its boundaries.\n\nBatac is politically subdivided into 43 barangays, 14 of which constitute the poblacion.\n\nIn the , the population of Batac was people, with a density of .\n\nThe Batac City Public Market touted as one of the biggest in the region offers a wide array of goods – freshly picked local vegetables and fruits, handicrafts, tincrafts, pottery, native delicacies, chicharon, longganisa, wet market treats and many others. The Delicia Center, located adjacent to the City Public Market, contains RTW shops, banks, appliance stores, farm supplies, pharmacies, groceries, a lottery outlet and many more. The Delicia Center and the City Public Market form part of the commercial district of Batac City.\n\nWith the presence of the Central Bank of the Philippines Cash Unit in the Batac City Government Center, financial institutions continue to spawn – Philippine National Bank, RCBC, Metrobank, Land Bank, BPI, Bank of Commerce, BDO and other local banks. Proof that Batac is offering a good business climate to investors.\n\nThe Plaza Maestro Complex, one of the most modern shopping centers in the province caters to the needs of the new generation, offering two of the country's top fast food chains (Jollibee and Chowking), several boutique shops, a drugstore and a photo shop, among others. A stone's throw away from the commercial complex are bakeshops and a local pizza house.\n\nThe Marcos Museum and Mausoleum is situated in the city center. The Mausoleum is where the glass-entombed, preserved corpse of Former President Ferdinand E. Marcos is found. The Museum holds the memorabilia of then President, from his stint in the Armed Forces down to his presidency. Other notable figures who hails from Batac include Gen. Artemio Ricarte, the Father of the Philippine Army and Msgr. Gregorio Aglipay, the founder of the Philippine Independent Church. Monuments and shrines of these personalities had been erected and named after them.\n\nThe Batac Riverside Empanadaan is a retail and dining center catering to tourist selling food products including the city's primary commodity of Batac, the empanada, and other souvenirs and products.\n\nThe city has two festivals, The Farmers Festival and The Empanada Festival. The Farmers' Festival, conducted in the first week of May each year is a celebration of bountiful harvest and a tribute to the farmers of the city. It is participated by the rural barangays of the city. The Empanada Festival is a festivity held on the 23rd of June in celebration of the City's Charter Day. The main feature of the festival is the street dancing which chronicles the process of preparing the empanada.\n\nThe Batac City Fiesta, a month-long festivity commencing on the 8th of December, is the longest fiesta in the Province of Ilocos Norte. The fiesta is celebrated in honor of the city's patroness, Our Lady of the Immaculate Conception. The Electric and Lights Parade marks the beginning of the City Fiesta every December 8.\n\nTerm of Office: June 30, 2019 – June 30, 2022\n\nBatac National High School (BNHS) is the most popular high school in the city. It has three campuses: Poblacion, Bungon and Payao.\n\nThe Mariano Marcos State University (MMSU) is a comprehensive institution of higher learning in the Ilocos Region. MMSU's root anchored deep, its foundation is strong, and its beginnings all proven historical turning points as far back as the early 1900s.\n\nThe city has one Catholic School, The Immaculate Conception Academy. It was named after Immaculate Conception, the patron saint of the city. It is under the Missionary Sisters Servants of the Holy Spirit (SSpS). It was founded in 1963. It is located beside the Immaculate Conception Parish.\n\n"}
{"id": "2280580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2280580", "title": "Central African National Liberation Movement", "text": "Central African National Liberation Movement\n\nThe Central African National Liberation Movement (, MCLN), was a political opposition movement in the Central African Republic led by Rodolphe Iddi Lala. The party had an armed wing, the Forces Armées de Libération Militaire.\n\nLala was expelled from Abel Goumba's Ubangian Popular Front in 1980, and subsequently formed the MCLN on 30 December 1980. On July 14, 1981 MCLN bombed a popular cinema in Bangui. Three people were killed and several others injured. MCLN took responsibility for the act and claimed that such attacks would only be stopped if French troops withdrew. The regime answered by banning MCLN and several other (more peaceful) opposition groups.\n\nMCLN was supported by Libya. Claimed links to MCLN was often used by the regime to dislegimitize the major opposition forces in the country. The party was banned on 18 July 1981.\n"}
