{"id": "2300053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300053", "title": "Ling Tong", "text": "Ling Tong\n\nLing Tong () (189–217), courtesy name Gongji, was a military general serving under the warlord Sun Quan during the late Eastern Han dynasty of China. He started his service under Sun Quan when he was still a teenager and, throughout his entire life, had been contributing to the foundation and solidification of the state of Eastern Wu, which Sun Quan established in 229. He fought in numerous battles for his lord, including those against Huang Zu, Liu Bei and the Shanyue tribes, but is best known for his performance in the campaigns against Sun Quan's rival Cao Cao, in which he displayed great skill in extremely adverse situations.\n\nLing Tong was more than just a military serviceman – he received high praise from the scholar-gentry for his gracious demeanour, bonhomie and generosity. Even though he had achieved fame and glory when he visited his hometown later in his life, he still treated commoners with utmost respect and humanity. Behind the frontline, Ling Tong conceived a strategy for dealing with and pacifying the Shanyue tribes – impressing them with a show of military might and offering them potential rewards – which led to the Wu government successfully recruiting over 10,000 Shanyue soldiers into their army and maintaining relative stability in the region. Known for his integrity and loyalty, Ling Tong, along with Lü Meng, was among Sun Quan's most valued generals.\n\nLing Tong was from Yuhang County (餘杭縣), Wu Commandery, which is present-day Yuhang District, Hangzhou, Zhejiang. His father, Ling Cao, was a military officer serving under the warlord Sun Ce. Ling Cao held the rank of Colonel Who Defeats Bandits (破賊校尉) and continued serving Sun Quan after Sun Ce's death in the year 200. In 204, Sun Quan attacked Huang Zu, the Administrator of Jiangxia Commandery (江夏郡; around present-day Xinzhou District, Wuhan, Hubei). During the ensuing Battle of Xiakou, Ling Cao sailed alone a distance ahead on a small boat to infiltrate the enemy formation. Huang Zu abandoned his position and fled. Ling Cao was killed in the midst of battle by a stray arrow fired by Huang Zu's subordinate, Gan Ning.\n\nLing Tong was 15 when his father died. Sun Quan appointed Ling Tong as a Major of Separate Command (別部司馬) in consideration of the fact that Ling Cao died in service of the Sun family. As many spoke well of Ling Tong's ability, the teenage Ling Tong was allowed to inherit his father's post, as acting Colonel Who Defeats Bandits, and assume command of the troops which used to be led by his father.\n\nLing Tong participated in a campaign against bandits in the hilly regions of Wu. Sun Quan's main force captured a bandit stronghold and left behind 10,000 men under the command of Ling Tong and Zhang Yi (張異) to lay siege to another stronghold. The day before the battle, Ling Tong and Chen Qin (陳勤) attended a banquet together. Chen Qin was in charge of ceremonial duties during the banquet, but he abused his powers and went against the rules. Ling Tong was upset by Chen Qin's insolence so he confronted him. In anger, Chen Qin hurled abuse at Ling Tong and even insulted Ling Tong's deceased father. Ling Tong was in tears but he refrained himself and did not respond to the acrimony.\n\nAfter the banquet, Chen Qin, who was drunk, insulted Ling Tong again on the road. Unable to tolerate further swearword, Ling Tong injured Chen Qin with his sword. Chen Qin died a few days later. The next day, before the battle, Ling Tong exclaimed: \"Only through death can my transgression be cleansed!\" He charged ahead of his troops during the battle in the face of enemy arrows and boulders. The side of the garrison which Ling Tong's army attacked fell immediately. The other commanders were roused by his victory and together they inflicted a crushing defeat on the enemy. After returning from the battle, Ling Tong bound himself and surrendered to the disciplinary officer. Sun Quan was impressed with Ling Tong's strong determination and pardoned him for insubordination in consideration of his contributions.\n\nIn 208, Sun Quan attacked Huang Zu at Jiangxia Commandery (江夏郡; around present-day Xinzhou District, Wuhan, Hubei) again. Ling Tong was assigned as the leader of the vanguard force. He sailed in his boat far ahead of the main army with only tens of his closest men with him, and emerged victorious in the first engagement by slaying Huang Zu's subordinate, Zhang Shuo (張碩), and capturing all of Zhang Shuo's mariners with his much smaller force. He reported back to Sun Quan and led another attack on the enemy again, advancing on both land and water.\n\nKnowing that Zhang Shuo had been slain and that the first line of defence had been broken, Huang Zu scuttled two of his largest \"mengchong\"s to block the entrance at the chokepoint of the Mian River, and sent his crossbowmen to station themselves there to fire at any approaching enemy forces. In addition, Huang Zu had strong men and archers ambushed on top of the cliff next to the river to throw down rocks and flaming debris. Sun Quan's forces suffered great casualties and were unable to advance any further. Ling Tong and Dong Xi, along with 100 \"commandos\", donned two layers of armour each and charged towards the enemy despite the rain of rocks from the cliff and the fusillade from the vessels. They succeeded in breaking the connections between the two vessels after tough fighting, thus allowing Sun Quan's forces to break through and enter Miankou. Furthermore, the destruction of the \"mengchong\"s actuated Sun Quan forces' fighting spirit, and they emerged victorious in the next battle, in which Lü Meng defeated Huang Zu's navy while Ling Tong conquered Jiangxia. Sun Quan appointed Ling Tong as a Commandant of Vehemence (承烈都尉).\n\nIn late 208, the northern warlord Cao Cao launched a campaign aimed at wiping out opposing forces in southern China. He successfully pressured Liu Cong, who had succeeded Liu Biao as the Governor of Jing Province, into surrendering. A few months later, Cao Cao assembled a force of 800,000 at Jiangling County, where countless warships and weapons were stored, and sent an envoy to intimidate Sun Quan to give up resistance. Sun Quan eventually hardened his decision to go to war with Cao Cao after Lu Su and Zhou Yu convinced him. He then formed an alliance with another warlord, Liu Bei, to resist Cao Cao. Ling Tong, under Zhou Yu's command, participated in the Battle of Red Cliffs, in which the combined armies of Sun Quan and Liu Bei dealt Cao Cao's massive fleet a crushing defeat at Wulin (烏林).\n\nFollowing the Battle of Red Cliffs, Zhou Yu led Sun Quan's forces to attack Nan Commandery (南郡; around present-day Jingzhou, Hubei), which was defended by Cao Cao's general Cao Ren. Zhou Yu sent Gan Ning to guard Yiling (夷陵; around present-day Yichang, Hubei), but Cao Ren ordered his subordinates to attack Yiling later. Gan Ning was under siege so he requested aid from Zhou Yu, who followed Lü Meng's plan to leave Ling Tong behind to defend their position while Zhou Yu and the other generals would lead reinforcements to help Gan. Ling Tong was left alone to engage the enemy in battle for about ten days under numerical disadvantage, but he managed to triumph against the odds by holding his ground firmly while his comrades were away. The battle dragged on until Cao Ren was eventually ordered to abandon Nan Commandery, resulting in the capture of the commandery by Sun Quan's forces. Ling Tong was promoted to Colonel (校尉) for his achievements in the battle\n\nLing Tong later moved east and followed Lü Meng and Gan Ning to attack Cao Cao's garrison at Wan County (皖縣; present-day Qianshan County, Anhui). They succeeded in conquering it. He was promoted to General of the Household Who Defeats Bandits (蕩寇中郎將) and was appointed as the Chancellor of Pei (沛相). In 215, Ling Tong joined Lü Meng in capturing Liu Bei's three commanderies of Changsha, Lingling and Guiyang. Later, they returned to Yiyang to counter an army led by Liu Bei's general Guan Yu, who was advancing south in an attempt to retake the lost commanderies. The territorial dispute was eventually resolved when both Sun Quan and Liu Bei agreed to divide Jing Province between their respective domains along the Xiang River.\n\nLing Tong had never forgiven Gan Ning for killing his father Ling Cao. Gan Ning was always on the defensive against Ling Tong and he tried to avoid meeting Ling whenever possible. Sun Quan also ordered Ling Tong to not seek vengeance on Gan Ning. Despite so, the two of them nearly exchanged blows in an incident during a banquet held in Lü Meng's house. When Ling Tong was performing a sword dance to entertain the guests, Gan Ning stood up and said: \"I can also perform with my pair of \"ji\"s.\" Lü Meng told Gan Ning: \"You may be good in performing, but you aren't as good as me.\" He then drew his sword and carried a shield and stood between Ling Tong and Gan Ning to separate them. When Sun Quan heard about the incident, he reassigned Gan Ning to another garrison at Banzhou (半州).\n\nAfter reaffirming his alliance with Liu Bei, Sun Quan personally led an army to attack Hefei, which was defended by Cao Cao's general Zhang Liao, in order to divert Cao Cao's attention away from Hanzhong Commandery. Ling Tong served as a Commandant of the Right Section (右部督) during this campaign. Sun Quan's forces suffered heavy losses in the early skirmishes against Zhang Liao and were unable to conquer Hefei. When a plague broke out among his troops, Sun Quan decided to give up on the campaign and retreat.\n\nAt Xiaoyao Ford (逍遙津), Sun Quan's other divisions retreated first while Sun Quan himself remained behind with about only 1,000 men and a few officers, including Lü Meng, Jiang Qin, Ling Tong and Gan Ning. When Zhang Liao saw that, he immediately led his troops out of Hefei to launch a counterattack and completely took Sun Quan by surprise. Sun Quan wanted to recall the divisions which had retreated first but realised they could not return in time. Ling Tong led 300 men to break into the enemy encirclement to rescue his lord. After Sun Quan managed to escape by making his horse jump across the broken bridge and reach the other side of the ford, Ling Tong returned to the battlefield and continued to fight on and slay dozens of enemies. He sustained several wounds all over his body and all his men were killed. He only retreated when he assessed the situation and concluded that Sun Quan was safe.\n\nAs the bridge had already been destroyed, Ling Tong had to wade through the water with his armour on. By then, Sun Quan had already boarded a ship and he was surprised and delighted to see Ling Tong still alive. Ling Tong was very saddened as all his close aides had died and he could not contain his sorrow. Sun Quan wiped Ling Tong's tears and said: \"Gongji, let the dead go. As long as you live, why worry that you will have no men under you?\" As Ling Tong's injuries were very severe, Sun Quan kept him on board the ship and let him have a change of clothing. With the aid of quality medicine, Ling Tong managed to survive. He was promoted to Lieutenant-General (偏將軍) later and given twice the number of troops he originally commanded.\n\nThe Shanyue were tribal peoples rooted in the Wuyue region of ancient China during the Han dynasty. Since the southern part of China was not directly administered by the Han government even though it was Han territory in name, the Shanyue people performed regular raids against Han citizens to gather living essentials. The Shanyue had been a nuisance for the Sun family and their forces since they first set foot in Jiangdong.\n\nSun Quan had launched countless campaigns against them, but to no avail because the Shanyue had been living in the hills for a long time, were familiar with the area, and would go into hiding once they lost a battle. However, Ling Tong attempted a different approach to deal with the Shanyue. He proposed that Sun Quan attempt to win the hearts of the Shanyue and assimilate them instead of purely using military force to hamper them. He reasoned that if they could impress the Shanyue with the dignity of Sun Quan's administration and potential rewards, the Shanyue would succumb to them without bloodshed. After he was granted the staff of authority to request materiel from counties when required, he led a unit with flamboyant weapons and armour to begin his grand tactics. When the Shanyue discovered Sun Quan's forces after the latter had already ventured deep into their territories, they were indeed stunned by Ling Tong's unit; then Ling came out and told them if they would join Sun Quan's army, handsome rewards would be offered. Ling Tong's plan was a great success – tens of thousands of Shanyue men came out from their homes and joined him. He then selected 10,000 able-bodied men to form a unit and returned. Because of Ling Tong's success, his strategy would be adopted and modified by Zhuge Ke, another Wu general, at a later time.\n\nDuring his journey to the Shanyue territories, Ling Tong passed by his hometown and stopped there for a visit. He treated the townsfolk with the utmost respect and humility even though he had achieved fame and glory. He died of illness on the return journey at the age of 28. When Sun Quan heard of Ling Tong's death, he was filled with grief for several days. In recognition of Ling Tong's contributions to his regime, Sun Quan ordered Zhang Cheng to write a eulogy for Ling Tong.\n\nLing Tong's two sons – Ling Lie (凌烈) and Ling Feng (凌封) – were both very young when their father died. Sun Quan brought them to his palace and treated them as though they were his sons. When guests came to visit him, he pointed at Ling Tong's sons and said: \"They are my tiger boys.\" When Ling Tong's sons reached the age of seven or eight, Sun Quan ordered Ge Guang (葛光) to teach them to read and write, and train them in horse-riding every ten days. When Ling Lie became older, in recognition of his father's meritorious service, Sun Quan granted him the title of a village marquis (亭侯) and placed him in charge of the unit which used to be commanded by his father. Ling Lie lost his marquis title later and was discharged from service because he committed an offence; the title and military post were passed on to Ling Feng.\n\nLing Tong respected and befriended members of the scholar-gentry. They admired him even though he was a military serviceman. Being receptive, he had a reputation for being accommodating towards men of talent. Even when he was busy with work, he always took time to receive visitors. He viewed righteousness and loyalty as important values and saw wealth as inferior. He was thus praised by Chen Shou as a \"guoshi\". Once, Sun Quan's subjects recommended a famous talent, Sheng Xian, to him. Ling Tong was asleep when he heard that Sheng Xian had arrived to meet his lord. He immediately got out of bed to receive Sheng Xian and held Sheng's hand while leading him to meet Sun Quan.\n\nLing Tong was reputed to have a strong sense of righteousness. During the battle at Nan Commandery, Zhou Yu ordered Gan Ning to attack Yiling (夷陵; around present-day Yichang, Hubei). Cao Ren sent an army to attack Gan Ning and had him surrounded. Gan Ning hurriedly requested for reinforcements, but the generals did not have enough men to spare to save him and believed it was not sagacious to send reinforcements because that would dilute the main army. Lü Meng spoke up, saying that they should help Gan Ning. He proposed to Zhou Yu that Ling Tong stay behind to keep Cao Ren in check while the rest of the generals go to reinforce Gan Ning. Lü Meng boldly asserted that he had confidence that Ling Tong could hold on for ten days. Ling Tong then took up his duties with responsibility. He countered Cao Ren's attacks alone, and bought time for the other generals to rescue Gan Ning.\n\nLing Tong was also brave in admitting his mistakes and displayed fervent determination in his actions. In his earlier years, he struck down a superior officer called Chen Qin, who earlier insulted him and his late father. The incident caused Chen Qin to die of severe wounds several days later. Ling Tong then fought recklessly in the battle against the bandits after exclaiming that only through death could he cleanse his deep guilt. Thus, his attack turned out to be a huge success, yet he bound himself and surrendered to the discipline officer after the victorious battle to await his punishment. However, Sun Quan pardoned him on account of his achievements and promoted him to a higher military rank.\n\nLing Tong is a character in the 14th-century historical novel \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\", which romanticises the historical events before and during the Three Kingdoms period. Although his role in the novel is generally similar to that of his historical counterpart, his conflict with Gan Ning is highly dramatised.\n\nIn Chapter 67, during a banquet to celebrate their victory over Cao Cao's forces at Wan County, Ling Tong feels jealous when he sees Lü Meng praising Gan Ning so he offers to perform a sword dance and wants to use the opportunity to kill Gan Ning and avenge his father. Gan Ning senses Ling Tong's intention so he also offers to perform with his pair of \"ji\"s. When Lü Meng realises that they are about to get into a fight, he draws his sword, carries a shield and stands in the middle to separate them. When Sun Quan hears about the incident, he comes to the banquet hall, orders them to lay down their weapons, and chides them for fighting among themselves. As Ling Tong kneels down and weeps, Sun Quan tries to calm him down and repeatedly urges him to stop provoking Gan Ning.\n\nIn Chapter 68, after the Battle of Xiaoyao Ford, when Ling Tong engages Yue Jin in a duel, Cao Xiu fires an arrow which hits Ling Tong's horse and causes Ling Tong to fall off the horse's back. Just as Yue Jin moves in for the kill, he suddenly gets hit by an arrow in the face. Both sides immediately rush forth to rescue their respective generals and withdraw their forces after that. Later, Ling Tong is surprised to learn that it was Gan Ning who saved him. He kneels down, thanks Gan Ning for saving his life, and begs for forgiveness. Gan Ning forgives him. Since then, Ling Tong forgets his past feud with Gan Ning and they become close friends.\n\nLing Tong is featured as a playable character in Koei's \"Dynasty Warriors\" and \"Warriors Orochi\" video game series. He also appears in all instalments of Koei's \"Romance of the Three Kingdoms\" series.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300056", "title": "Christoph Metzelder", "text": "Christoph Metzelder\n\nChristoph Tobias Metzelder (; born 5 November 1980) is a German former footballer who played as a central defender.\n\nMost of his professional career, which was spent mostly at Borussia Dortmund, was blighted by injuries. He did manage, however, to appear 47 times for the German national team, representing the country at two World Cups and Euro 2008.\n\nMetzelder also played three seasons apiece for Real Madrid and Schalke 04, amassing Bundesliga totals of 178 matches and four goals over one full decade.\n\nMetzelder was born in Haltern, North Rhine-Westphalia. In the summer of 2000 he signed with Borussia Dortmund from lowly SC Preußen Münster, and he was an instant success. At the end of his first season in the Bundesliga he won his first cap for Germany, playing the second half of a 5–2 friendly win in Hungary on 15 August 2001.\n\nThe second campaign at Dortmund brought Metzelder the 2002 national title and 14 matches with Germany, all the way to the 2002 FIFA World Cup final with the latter. However, he missed the entire 2003–04 due to an Achilles tendon injury, and only took part in 16 league games in the following season.\n\nAfter over two years out of the national squad, Metzelder was called by new boss Jürgen Klinsmann for a friendly with China, in October 2005. He also scored his first two league goals, in 1–1 draws against 1. FSV Mainz 05 and Hamburger SV, and would be Germany's undisputed starter at the 2006 World Cup, partnering with SV Werder Bremen's Per Mertesacker.\n\nOn 18 April 2007, after failing to renew his contract at Borussia, Metzelder transferred to Real Madrid at the end of the season on a free transfer. In February 2008, after managing to be injury-free in the first months of his Spanish adventure, he had surgery on the sole of his foot, resulting in him missing nearly 60 days of action; on 11 May, after having already missed the UEFA Champions League round-of-16 clash against A.S. Roma, he returned and played the full 90 minutes against Real Zaragoza (2–2 away draw).\n\nDespite his lack of playing time, Metzelder featured in all of Germany's matches at UEFA Euro 2008, again partnering Mertesacker. In 2008–09's La Liga, he was the main beneficiary of a ten-match suspension handed to Real's Pepe; after a stellar performance in a 4–2 win at Sevilla FC he also started in the 2–6 home defeat at the hands of FC Barcelona, for a career-best – in Spain – 12 appearances.\n\nMetzelder left Real Madrid after his contract expired on 30 June 2010.\n\nOn 27 April 2010, prior to the end of the campaign, Metzelder announced his return to Germany, agreeing on a three-year contract with FC Schalke 04, with which he had already played youth football 15 years earlier. His first two league games with the club, the first of 2010–11, ended with 1–2 losses, to Hamburger SV and Hannover 96, respectively.\n\nMetzelder appeared in ten complete matches in the season's Champions League, in an eventual last-four run. He added five in the domestic cup victorious campaign, including the semi-finals against FC Bayern Munich (1–0 win) and the final against MSV Duisburg (5–0).\n\nIn May 2013, 32-year-old Metzelder announced his retirement from professional football at the end of the campaign. In July 2019, he was hired as a pundit by public broadcaster ARD.\n\nMetzelder's younger brother, Malte, was also a footballer (and a centre back), and both played for Borussia Dortmund.\n\nHe had one daughter, Emma (born 17 October 2009), with girlfriend Julia Gödicke.\n\nMetzelder is currently being investigated for the potential distribution of child pornography, which led him to step down from his role as president of his former club TuS Haltern am See in September 2019.\n\n\nBorussia Dortmund\n\nReal Madrid\n\nSchalke\n\nGermany\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300069", "title": "Kahoku (disambiguation)", "text": "Kahoku (disambiguation)\n\nKahoku is the name of several places in Japan:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300081", "title": "The Sound of Johnny Cash", "text": "The Sound of Johnny Cash\n\nThe Sound of Johnny Cash is the twelfth album by American singer-songwriter Johnny Cash, released in 1962 (see 1962 in music). Among other songs, it contains \"In the Jailhouse Now\", a Jimmie Rodgers cover which reached No. 8 on the Country charts, and \"Delia's Gone\", which Cash would re-record years later, on \"American Recordings\", in 1994. Cash would also go on to record a significantly slower, more ballad-like version of \"I'm Free from the Chain Gang Now\", which was ultimately released in 2006 on \"\" as the last track on the album. \n\nDuring the recording sessions for the album, Cash rerecorded his Sun Records hits \"Folsom Prison Blues\", \"Hey Porter\" and \"I Walk the Line\", but none of these versions were ultimately used on the album and sat unreleased until the 1990s.\n\nThe original 1962 album features a photograph of Johnny Cash taken by American photographer Leigh Wiener at his studio in Los Angeles, California. \n\n\nThe album did not chart in the \"Billboard\" album charts. In 1962 the single \"In the Jailhouse Now\" peaked at #8 in the Billboard Country Singles.\n"}
{"id": "2300088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300088", "title": "Valentine Mott", "text": "Valentine Mott\n\nValentine Mott (August 20, 1785April 26, 1865), American surgeon, was born at Glen Cove, New York.\n\nHe graduated at Columbia College, studied under Sir Astley Cooper in London, and also spent a winter in Edinburgh. After acting as demonstrator of anatomy he was appointed professor of surgery in Columbia College in 1809. From 1811 to 1834 he was in very extensive practice as a surgeon, and most successful as a teacher and operator.\n\nHe tied the innominate artery in 1818; the patient lived twenty-six days. He performed a similar operation on the carotid forty-six times with good results; and in 1827 he was also successful in the case of the common iliac. He is said to have performed one thousand amputations and one hundred and sixty-five lithotomies.\n\nAfter spending seven years in Europe (1834-1841) Mott returned to New York where he was on the founding faculty of the university medical college of New York, now New York University School of Medicine. He translated AALM Velpeau's \"Operative Surgery\", and was foreign associate of the Imperial Academy of Medicine of Paris.\n\nA collection of his correspondence is held at the National Library of Medicine in Bethesda, Maryland.\n\nIn 1849, the same year he was elected President of the New York Academy of Medicine, Mott and his wife, the former Louisa Dunmore Munn, moved to a four-story Italianate brownstone mansion at #1 Gramercy Park West with their large family. The couple had 9 children: 6 sons, including Alexander Brown Mott (1826-1889), Valentine Mott, Jr. (1822-1854), and Thaddeus P. Mott; and 3 daughters, including Louisa Dunmore Mott, who in 1842 married the surgeon William Holme Van Buren. A son of Alexander B. Mott, the surgeon Dr. Valentine Mott (1852-1918) studied under Louis Pasteur in Paris and was the first to introduce rabies vaccine into the U.S. Upon his death in 1865, Mott was interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York.\n"}
{"id": "2300091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300091", "title": "Bournbrook", "text": "Bournbrook\n\nBournbrook is an industrial and residential district in southwest Birmingham, England, in both the Selly Oak Council Ward and the Parliamentary District of Selly Oak. Prior to what is commonly termed the Greater Birmingham Act, which came into effect on 9 November 1911, the Bourn Brook watercourse was the North Eastern boundary of Worcestershire, and the area was locally governed by the King’s Norton and Northfield Urban District Council.\n\nBournbrook was once known for its Victorian Leisure Park known as Kerby’s Pools. The industry that followed the construction of the canals transformed the ancient manor of Selley. The junction of the Worcester and Birmingham Canal and the Netherton Canal via the Lapal Tunnel created a distribution centre for heavy raw materials from the Black Country. Major industries developed along both sides of the two canals. Terraced housing, for the better off working people, was constructed on the former Selly Hill, Selly Grove, and Selly Oak estates. The High Street provided retail, entertainment, and public services.\n\nThe property of Sir Henry Gough Calthorpe of Edgbaston was protected by clauses in the Canal Bill prohibiting the construction of wharves, warehouses, and other buildings along with other restrictive concessions. The Bournbrook rifle range, on the Warwickshire side of the watercourse, was opened in 1860 as the training ground for the Birmingham Rifle Corps later known as the First Volunteer Battalion of the Royal Warwickshire Regiment. Trams from Birmingham initially stopped at Selly Oak Gate, the county boundary on the turnpike road, or at the Gun Barrels Public House. Extended services ran at weekends to Kerby’s Pools.\n\nLocated adjacent to the main campus of the University of Birmingham, numerous houses in the area have been converted from private housing into HMOs (Houses of Multiple Occupation) for students at the university. In response to this practice, fourteen of Selly Oak’s community groups have formed a federation ‘CP4SO’ (Community Partnership for Selly Oak) to address the major issues that the ‘Buy to Let, to convert’ might be causing. The Local Action Plan, adopted in July 2001, identifies that: an area of restraint was proposed for the area between Bristol Road, Heeley Road, Raddlebarn Road, and Bournbrook Road. Within this area planning permission for further purpose built student accommodation may be refused. Planning permission is required for the conversion of dwellings for more than six people, or where people do not live as a single household. Planning approval may be refused throughout the Plan area, but particularly within the area of restraint.\"\n\nThe name 'Bourn' is derived from the Old English burna or bourne for brook or stream when it had gravel beds and was characterised by clear water and submerged water plants. By contrast ‘broc’ usually denotes muddy streams with sediment laden with water. Normally both words were used for streams of a considerable size.\n\nRoads\nThe Bristol Road was turnpiked in the early 18th century. The original line of the road, before 1771, went by way of Edgbaston Park Road which began opposite Bournbrook Road, alongside Edgbaston Park, along Priory Road, Church Road, Arthur Road, Wheeley’s Road, Bath Row, Holloway Head, and Smallbrook Ringway. A new section of the turnpike was made in 1771 at a cost of £5,000, starting at Bristol Street and joining the old road at the Gun Barrels.\n\nThe first horse-drawn tram service from Birmingham began in the 1870s and went as far as the Bournbrook Hotel. Hughes ran an experimental steam powered service between Monmouth Street and Bournbrook on 2 July 1880, the latter distance being covered in twenty-five minutes with a car load of passengers attached to the engine. From 1890-1900 accumulator battery trams were in use connecting Birmingham to Bournbrook. A year later electric cables were introduced to replace the batteries. The tram sheds between Dawlish Road and Tiverton Road are now the Douper Hall of Residence. The depot in Dawlish Road was replaced by one opened in 1927 in Chapel Lane. The depot in Harborne Lane was used for buses which replaced the trams. The former Bristol Road tram route and its depots were replaced by buses in 1952. The depot closed in 1986 and is in use as Access storage centre.\n\nCanals\n\nThe Lapal Tunnel and the Dudley Canal were completed in 1798 and raw materials, especially coal and lime, for heavy industry were transported into Selly Oak from the Black Country and then to the River Severn, or to Oxford and London via the Stratford-upon-Avon Canal. The Worcester and Birmingham Canal commenced in 1791 and was completed in 1815 with the lifting of the Worcester Bar in Birmingham. Industrial activity developed along its banks from Bournbrook to Lifford. The industry stopped abruptly at the boundary with Edgbaston because of clauses inserted in the Bill that protected the property of Sir Henry Gough-Calthorpe by prohibiting the construction of wharves, warehouses and other buildings without his consent. The embankment near Wheeleys Road, gave way on 26 May 1872 causing considerable damage to the properties nearby. By an agreement of 1873 this canal was sold to the Gloucester and Berkeley Canal Co, otherwise the Sharpness Dock Co. A boatyard on the Dudley Canal was established and run by the Monk family for many years. A final roof fall in 1917 resulted in the closure of the Lapal tunnel. The canal continued to be used transporting bricks from the California brickworks. Planning is underway to reopen the section of the canal through the new Sainsbury’s site. Eventually it is hoped to re-connect the canal at Halesowen.\nRailways\n\nThe Birmingham West Suburban Railway line from Granville Street to King’s Norton was opened in 1876 with five stations. The single track was doubled and extended from Granville Street to New Street, at an estimated cost of £280,400, so that the Midland Railway had a direct run through the town. It was later incorporated into the Midland Railway and the terminus changed to New Street. During the Great War casualties were brought to Selly Oak and transferred to the First Southern and General Military Hospital which was housed in the new University of Birmingham buildings. The railway was carried over the Bristol Road by an embankment and multi-arched viaduct. In the 1920s the central part of the viaduct was replaced with the current steel bridge in order that the new higher trams could pass underneath. The new bridge followed a slightly different alignment. The arches that were used as by Vincent’s timber depot have recently been cleared. The current car park occupies the area that once housed significant goods sidings that could hold up to 300 wagons. The sidings were mainly used for the conveyance of coal and a coal merchant’s stood on the site for many years. Bournbrook is served by Selly Oak railway station on the Cross-City Line, providing services to the Birmingham New Street, Lichfield Trent Valley and Redditch stations.\n\nPrehistoric\n\nAlong the Bourn Brook evidence has been found of Bronze Age burnt mounds. As these have been interpreted as having domestic use, for beer-making, or saunas the implication is that there may have been a prehistoric settlement nearby. Small pieces of prehistoric, Probably Iron Age, pottery and a piece of worked flint were found on the Selly Park Recreation Ground in 1996 which may indicate the site of an Iron Age farmstead in the vicinity.\n\nRoman\n\nMetchley Fort occupied a site nearby distributing goods such as salt from Droitwich to places further north and west. It is probable that they upgraded existing tracks. At some point they would have needed to ford the brook and Bournbrook seems a likely place with the possibility of local support for periods when the area was flooded.\n\nAnglo-Saxon\n\nUntil 1911 the Bourn Brook was the ancient Anglo-Saxon boundary between Worcestershire and Staffordshire (Harborne), and Warwickshire (Edgbaston). The boundaries of the Midland shires were possibly established during the reign of the Danish Kings from 1016-1042 based on the former tribal kingdoms. Physical features were frequently used to identify the boundary of a region or estate. The Hamlet of Bournbrook developed at a crossing point of the Bourn Brook. Potentially it was a meeting place for the nobility of each of the shires. The Bourn Brook, which flows into River Rea near in Cannon Hill Park, is the Ward boundary.\n\nThe Bourn Brook was in continuous use to power mills for several centuries. Harborne Mill was in Staffordshire until 1891. Pebble Mill and Edgbaston Mill were both in Warwickshire. Another mill was shown in 1787-9 on the most westerly of the streams from Edgbaston Pool where it joined the Bourn Brook near the Bristol Road. This may be the old silver rolling mill owned by Mr Spurrier referred to by Leonard, located near the present Eastern Road that was fed by the brook that ran from Edgbaston Pool.\n\nA miller was mentioned in the Lechmere Tax Rolls for Weleye and Selleye in 1276-82. An archaeological excavation identified that the straightening of the Bourn Brook and the construction of the mill leat suggests that the site of the Bourn Brook Mill was medieval in origin and that a mill or mills had existed in roughly the same location for 500–600 years. Deposits from the relict water channels were radiocarbon dated to the 15th and 16th centuries. The fishponds that the leat drained into would also have to be of late medieval date. Further opportunity to discover the location of the medieval mill will be useful to inform the local and regional research cycles.\n\nIn the 16th century the King family had a fulling mill on the Bourn Brook. Henry Cambden the elder, a knife cutler, built a blade mill on part of Gower’s Farm in 1707. In 1727 the mill was assigned to Henry Carver, a brass founder. The Gunsmiths, Heeley and Company, is recorded as occupying the mill in 1816. The Tithe Map of 1839 shows the land owned by James Kerby included a forge. An 1861 advertisement for sale of the Bourn Brook Estate (Worcestershire) describes a rolling mill in the occupation of the Bourne Brook Iron Company within a short distance of the mining district. An iron founder and metal roller, Noah Fellows occupied it in 1863. Arthur Holden, a paint manufacturer was the occupant in 1873. From 1880 Frederick Spurrier worked the mill for rolling joined in 1908 by Henry Spurrier.\n\nThe Tithe Map shows that in 1839 there were seven farms in Selly Oak. Selly Farm was on the corner of Warwards Lane and St Stephen’s Road. It was referred to in 1809. It was replaced by a petrol filling station in the 1970s and is now St Stephen’s Court, students’ apartments. Raddlebarn Farm was formerly Raddle Barn Doors Farm in a reference of 1776. It had 50 acres and was mainly used for grazing cattle. The farmhouse survived until 1974 when it was replaced with a row of modern terraced houses. The cowshed remained until the 1990s being used as a fabric shop and Kaplan’s. Bournbrook Farm was at the junction of Exeter and Dawlish Roads. It was owned by John Heeley, a gunmaker who owned Bournbrook Forge and Mill. The track became a road extending as far as the Bristol Road just before the development of the estate began in the 1870s. The other farms gradually disappeared under the pressure of increasing industrialisation and the demand for building land. Selly Hill Farm was converted into Selly Hill House a minor country residence and Langleys Farm became ‘The Langleys’.\n\nThe 1839 Tithe Map and Apportionments for Northfield Parish, Worcestershire, show that in Bournbrook James Kerby owned 43 acres of land that included pools, a forge, and the Bell and Shovel Inn. Kerby’s Pools was a Victorian pleasure resort in Bournbrook. Its three pools were devoted to boating and fishing and there was also a leisure garden. People would travel in great numbers to enjoy the entertainment and facilities the resort offered. Showell describes it as “a well-known and favourite resort on the outskirt of the borough, on the Bristol Road, and formerly one of the celebrated taverns and tea gardens of past days”. There were a variety of attractions and events like fireworks displays. It was one of few spots for fishing within walking distance of Birmingham. Sadly there were some accidents: on 17 May 1875 Lawrence Joyce was drowned when the boat upset, and two men were drowned 23 July 1876.\n\nThe pools were filled in during the 1880s as the spread of heavy industry and the construction of terraced housing for the workers diminished the rural attractiveness of the location. In 1878 a cricket match was played at Bournbrook. At least 3,000 spectators were present when the game commenced at noon on Wednesday 25 June 1878. This number had risen to 12,000 by close of play. For the first two days batting, bowling, and fielding were excellent. Sadly, a thunderstorm on the final day resulted in the pitch flooding and the game was abandoned.\n\nGeorge Cadbury was a teacher with the Adult School Movement. When he moved his chocolate factory to Bournville he created purpose built Institutes in Selly Oak, Stirchley, and Northfield to serve the working community. In 1894 he extended the coffee house he had built for the workers of the Selly Oak and Bournbrook villages to include a meeting place for the Society of Friends, and for use by other groups. When Elliott needed the Workman’s Hall for his manager of the Elliott’s Metal Company Ltd the Adult School moved to the Selly Oak Institute located in Bournbrook. The Institute is a listed building. It was described as having a large club room containing three billiard tables, three committee rooms, and a large hall suited for concerts and dramatic performance. Various groups met there including a choir and a band. The Institute was used by others including the Traders and Ratepayers Association, and the police who held a court there twice a month. In 1899 it boasted a temperance tavern ‘The Cyclists Arms’. In 1937 it was the address of the relieving officer and the registrar of births, marriages, and deaths, as well as a Men’s Social Club, a girls’ gymnastic club, Selly Oak Choral Union and Miss Christine Boyse who taught dancing. The Institute continued to hold Adult Education courses and facilitate community groups that have recently been relocated to the Hubert Road premises.\n\nThe tall brick and terracotta building that resembles a French Gothic chapel was the Selly Oak Water Pumping Station. In the middle of the 19th century piped water gradually became available throughout the Birmingham area due to six wells that were built on the outskirts of the city. Although built in the 1870s by Birmingham Corporation Water Department it wasn’t opened until 1879 by Joseph Chamberlain. Following the successful construction, in 1904, of the Elan Valley pipeline the well was retained in case of emergencies but was finally capped in 1920. The beam engine was built by Messrs.' James Watt and Co. and produced 1¼ million gallons each day. The site is now owned by Western Power.\n\nBournbrook Tavern, Bristol Road, was a Mitchells & Butlers pub with an unofficial name of ‘The Steps’ due to a flight of steps up to the entrance. It may have replaced an earlier pub called the Bowling Green Inn It was replaced by The Brook which has since been demolished and a hall of residence for students is now on the site.\n\nIn the 1881 census the Bristol Pear, on the corner of Bristol Road and Heeley Road, was the Heeley Arms the 1881 census shows with Thomas Thompson as publican. It changed its name to the Station Inn before adopting its current name.\n\nGoose at the OVT The Inn was reported to have existed in c1700. On the 1839 Tithe Map the owner was James Kerby and it was called the Bell and Shovel Inn. Under the ownership of George North from 1859 the name changed to the Malt Shovel. Showell records that the public house, belonging to Holt’s brewery, having been extended and partially rebuilt, and the grounds better laid out, the establishment was re-christened, and opened as the Bournbrook Hotel at Whitsuntide in 1877. For a short time it was a Firkin Pub, and it is now the Goose at the OVT.\n\nThe Gun Barrels was just in Edgbaston. During the late 19th century the pub became popular for prize fights because as the Bourn Brook was the county boundary, the pugilists could escape from the local police by crossing the brook which was beyond their jurisdiction. The pub had been rebuilt by 1987 and has since been demolished. An earlier building called The Grinders appears at this location on an 1819 turnpike map. It may have been named after William Deakin’s Gun Barrel Manufactory at Bournbrook in 1841. Like many rural inns the pub had an adjacent bowling green which may also have been used for croquet.\n\nThe Plough and Harrow was formerly called the New Inn in 1900 (delete) and took the name Plough and Harrow in 1904. The records of the Birmingham District of the Manchester Unity of Oddfellows show a lodge was located at the New Inn, in Selly Oak. The squirrel motif of Holt’s Brewery can be seen on the gable. Holts Brewery was founded in 1887 in Aston, but in 1934 became Ansells Brewery Ltd. It was demolished pre 1987.\n\nThe Tiverton Pool and Fitness Centre originally opened in Bournbrook on 28 January 1906 as Tiverton Road Public Baths. They were built by King's Norton and Northfield District Council to the design of E Harding Payne and built by a local building firm, T A Cole & Son. There were two swimming baths, one with a gallery for spectators, a children's bath and separate private baths for men and women. The larger men’s swimming pool would be floored over in the winter months and the floorspace was used for concerts, political meetings, and dances. A smaller, shallower swimming bath, with steps down into it was provided for women and children. In 1911, it was taken over by Birmingham Baths Committee. More recently it has been converted into a health centre and now includes a \"\"Pulse Point\"\" gym as well as sunbeds and a sauna whilst retaining the swimming pool, the children's pool which is used as a smaller instruction pool and pool spectator seating facilities.\n\nThe land on which the free library was built was donated by Thomas Gibbins (junior), a local councillor as well as being an industrialist. The philanthropic organisation, the Carnegie Foundation, financed the building.\n\nIn Bournbrook there is one surviving primary school: Tiverton Junior and Infant School. St Mary’s C of E Primary School opened as a National School in 1860 with accommodation for 252 children. It was enlarged in 1872 and ten years later the boys and girls were separated. St Mary’s National School was opened in Hubert Road Bournbrook in 1885 the girls were transferred there and the National School was used for boys and infants. In 1898 the schools were united for administration and called Selly Oak and Bournbrook Schools.\n\nA third department was opened in 1898, in Dawlish Road, to accommodate 545 senior girls and the Infants department. Bournbrook School was used for boys with additional accommodation for 200 boys provided at the Bournbrook Technical Institute from 1901-3. The Selly Oak and Bournbrook Temporary Council School was opened by King’s Norton and Northfield Urban District Council in 1903 in the room that was previously used as an annexe of Selly Oak and Bournbrook C of E School. The premises were not satisfactory and the school was closed in 1904 when Raddlebarn Lane Temporary Council School was opened.\n\nThe schools were separated again in 1914 with the 1885 Hubert Road and 1898 Dawlish Road buildings becoming St Wulstan’s C of E school. In 1946 accommodation was also provided in the People’s Hall, Oak Tree Lane. St Mary’s National School Bournbrook was closed in 1939 due to dwindling numbers. The Dawlish Road premises were sold in 1940 as a warehouse but bought by Birmingham Education Committee in 1952 to be an annexe to Tiverton Road County Primary School. Tiverton County Primary School was opened in 1906 by King’s Norton and Northfield Urban District Council with accommodation for 510 children. Bournbrook Congregational Church provided accommodation for two classes in 1952. The buildings of the former St Wulstan’s C of E School were bought in 1952 for an extension to the school. In 1954 the name was changed to Tiverton Road School.\n\nThere was a small Quaker boarding school for twelve boys aged eight to sixteen in a building at the junction of Selly Park Road and Oakfield Road. Although no longer a school, the building was destroyed by a bomb during the Second World War and new houses have now been built on the site.\n\nSelly Oak Nursery School was founded in Greet in 1904, but in 1921 the school moved to premises in Tiverton Road which had been equipped by Mr. and Mrs. George Cadbury Junior.\n\nThe following is from the (1964) VCH City of Birmingham \n\nAn Un-denominational church in Alton Road was registered for public worship from 1912 to 1945.\n\nBournbrook Chapel, a brick building seating 250 in Elmdon Road, was opened by members of Selly Oak (Bristol Road) Primitive Methodist church in 1901. In 1932 there was a church membership of 54.\n\nBournbrook Church Hall, Dartmouth Road, was built in 1932 with seating for 350. The church was formed in 1894 and in 1902, when services were being held in a corrugated iron building, numbered 30 members. For some years after 1902 Dartmouth Road was a mission of Francis Road. The vacant chapel has been converted into the Jalalabad Mosque and Islamic Centre.\n\nBournbrook Elim Church, Alton Road, was formerly an un-denominational mission, was acquired in 1944. The congregation, founded from Graham Street, had formerly met in a hired hall. The Church membership in 1957 was 110.\n\nBournbrook Gospel Hall, Tiverton Road was registered for public worship in 1895 and is probably identifiable with the Selly Oak Hall which claimed, in 1892, to have a Sunday evening congregation of 70. It was open in 1957. Tiverton Christian Fellowship began in 1890 before obtaining the land in Tiverton Road.\n\nIn 1894 George Cadbury opened the Selly Oak Institute which was used as a place of worship until the new meeting-house was built in 1927. In 1899 the institute consisted of a main hall, ancillary rooms, and a temperance tavern, or ‘cyclists Arms’. In 1954 there was said to be an average Sunday attendance at the meeting-house of 70.\n\nSt John’s Methodist Church was opened by the Wesleyans in 1835, and provided sittings for 108. It was replaced in 1877 by a new chapel costing £2,414 which provided sittings for 350. Important extensions were notified to the Wesleyan Chapel Committee in 1909. In 1940 St John’s was described as a brick building seating 494 with a school hall and seven other ancillary rooms. The church originated in cottage meetings which followed the appointment in 1829 of C Bridgewater as inspector of tolls at the Selly Oak locks. There was a Sunday evening congregation of 35 in 1851, and a Sunday afternoon attendance of 118 in 1892. It was enlarged in 1910 and had a school hall. Church membership in 1932 was 150. It closed in 1957 when the congregation joined with the Primitive Methodists. After being used for less dignified functions it was demolished in the late 1970s. Lookers car salesroom now occupies the site.\n\nSt Paul’s Church was opened by the Primitive Methodists in 1874. The congregation was founded in 1870 and met at first in the open air, then in cottages, and finally in a hired dance-hall, before the first chapel was built. In 1892 there was a Sunday afternoon attendance of 107. In c1908 a new brick chapel seating 500 was built which had, in 1940, five ancillary rooms, one of which was built as a school hall. Church membership in 1932 was 193. It was used after the two Methodist congregations were united until moving to a new Methodist church in Langley's Road in 1966.\n\nSt Stephen’s, Selly Hill: As the congregation of St Mary’s, the parish church grew, a chapel of ease was created in Selly Hill and a Mission in Dawlish Road. Robert Dolphin, who had bought Selly Hall and its farm lands in 1835, donated the land. St Stephen’s was designed by Martin and Chamberlain in the decorated style. Contributions for the building of the church came from several notable businessmen: William Docker, Charles Winn, Thomas Webley, and Lord Calthorpe. The first stone was laid on 30 March 1870 and the St Stephen’s Church was consecrated on 18 August 1871. The patrons are the Bishop and trustees; the living is valued at £200; it is a perpetual curacy, and the incumbent is the Rev. R Stokes, M.A. Of the 300 sittings 100 are free. The parishes of parish of St Stephen and St Wulstan combined in 1980. The Lych-gate was added in 1924\n\nSt Wulstan’s mission church was consecrated as St Wulstans in 1906. The church was exchanged in 1983 with Elim Pentecostal Church. St Wulstan’s is now a smaller church in Alton Road\n\nThree Tin tabernacles or temporary missions are recorded in Bournbrook, Raddlebarn Road, and Dawlish Road\n\nIndustry in Bournbrook was varied but engineering and gun making were significant.\n\nUntil the mid-sixties, Bournbrook was the home to Ariel motorcycles owned by first Charles Sangster then his son Jack Sangster, and with their main factory in Dale Road. Ariel was the first motorcycle company to employ noted designer Edward Turner from Peckham to join their established engineer, Val Page. He introduced the Ariel Square Four model and re-vamped their Ariel Red Hunter range. Ariel acquired Triumph motorcycles before the Second World War and, with Triumph, was itself later absorbed into the Birmingham Small Arms group when Jack Sangster joined their board. Although introducing new models, the Ariel Leader and Ariel Arrow, the Bournbrook site gradually lost importance within the BSA group with their final model, the ignominious Ariel 3 being wholly produced at Small Heath.\n\nThe Binding Site Ltd was founded 1983 to replace BDS Biologicals which made kits for diagnosing and monitoring illnesses. It occupied part of the Boxfoldia factory in Dale Road during the 1990s until it moved to King’s Heath.\n\nBoxfoldia Ltd was founded in 1921 by Charles Henry Foyle. It began in Ten Acres and moved to Dale Road in 1933 where it took over a large part of the Ariel Works. The company moved to Redditch c1990.\n\nCycle Components Manufacturing Company was founded in 1895 and Charles Sangster bought the trade name ‘Ariel’ from the Dunlop Cycle Company. It was built on site of Kerby’s Pools. An Ariel cycle won the World Championships in 1897. First motor tricycle made in 1898 and the first motor cycle in 1905. About 200 people were employed in the 1930s. Charles went bankrupt in 1932 and the company was bought by his son Jack. It became part of BSA and moved to Small Heath.\n\nEngineering company, Decimals Ltd, were making phosphorus grenades and wire-cutters In Grange Road for the Great War.\n\nGeorge Morgan Ltd, became incorporated in 1933. At the British Industries Fair in 1937 it was listed as a producer of drop forgings for the motor, motor-cycle, cycle, aircraft, shipbuilding, railway, and general engineering industries. They made parts for the Austin Motor Company at Longbridge. They traded from part of the Ariel factory until the mid-1980s.\n\nGreenwood Paige and Co Ltd was established in 1899 by R W Greenwood as fruit preservers. From 1905 until 1915 they occupied the “Seville Works” 193-199 Tiverton Road, which had previously been a steam laundry, Loffets Sweet Factory; Swish Curtain Rails; Patrick Motors Spare Parts Division. Another jam making factory was further along Tiverton Road. most of the fruit used was grown in the West Midlands Region: strawberries from Bromsgrove, currants from Stratford, plums from Evesham, and damsons from Shropshire.\n\nH W Ward and Company Ltd moved to Dale Road c1914. They were very significant producers of capstan and turret lathes. The buildings were demolished to make way for the new road and Halls of Residence for students at the University of Birmingham.\n\nLewis Woolf Grip-tight Ltd owned a rubber plantation in the Far East. At the British Industries Fair its products were listed as patent pneumatic and non-pneumatic baby soothers, rubber teats, bottles, and flycatchers. They had various premises in Bournbrook: rear of 507 Bristol Road; Old School in Hubert Road for rubber processing; Offices 144 Oakfield Road; 508 Bristol Road shop used for storage; 519 Bristol Road as a canteen. They also used the former TASCOS building on the corner of Alton Road until it was destroyed in a massive fire. A dentists surgery now occupies the site.\n\nThe Patent Enamel Company Ltd, founded in 1888, moved to a purpose built factory in Heeley Road in the following year. Benjamin Baugh had begun to manufacture tough vitreous enamelled sheet wrought iron in Bradford Street In 1857. He combined with William Walters, and H W Elliott to form the Patent Enamel Co Ltd. The products were used for advertising on railway stations, hotels and public houses. Competition and the improved paper posters and plastics caused the business to decline and the company closed in 1965. The site was occupied by several small firms until it was destroyed by fire. Comet moved onto the site and later moved onto the Battery Retail Park.\n\nAlbert M Patrick founded Patrick Motors for his son Joseph A M Patrick. Beginning in 1930 it occupied the site of Edgbaston Garage Ltd on the Bristol Road. The company moved to Lakeside in King’s Norton where they had a museum of cars called the Patrick Collection. The site became Tesco Express.\n\nFrom the mid-1930s Sandvik Steel Band Conveyor & Engineering Co Ltd occupied the former tram sheds at 20 Dawlish Road. Their products include: cutting tools; equipment, tools, and services for mining and construction; and materials technology including steel belt process systems. In the 1970s they moved to Halesowen. The Douper Hall of Residence now occupies the site.\n\nThe now dilapidated building beside the library on the Bristol Road belonged to timber merchants W J Vincent & Co Ltd. They moved to Bournbrook in 1923 and had other premises including a storage area in Heeley Road beside the railway. In 1975 the business returned to Sparkbrook.\n\nWilliam Westley Richards founded the company of Westley Richards (Gunmakers) Ltd in 1812 although they didn’t move to Grange Road until 1849. They crafted sporting guns for Edward VII and other members of the Royal family. It was a highly integrated factory that mass-produced revolvers with a good deal of machinery. Westley engineering, trading from the same premises, became separate company in 1998. Their business was precision pressing and tool making. They were required to move in order that the phase of the Selly Oak New Road to the new Queen Elizabeth Hospital Birmingham could be completed. The demolition of the factory caused a lot of local protest.\n\nA Wood Turning business operated from Rose Cottage from 1825 until the c1970s. The Rone-Clarke family turned ‘woods’ for bowls matches. Apparently they also made woods for Triplex to test the resistance of their glass used in airplanes!\n\nWrights Saddle Company who operated in one of the old Components factories in Dale Road and was apparently closed in 1961 by the British Cycle Corporation.\n\nIn 1907 George Cadbury purchased Rookery Cottages a former yeoman’s dwelling on the Selly Hill Estate. The cottages were dismantled and rebuilt as part of his model village, Bournville. He renamed the building Selly Manor and it is now a museum.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300099", "title": "River Doon", "text": "River Doon\n\nThe River Doon (, ) is a river in Ayrshire, Scotland.Its course is generally north-westerly, passing near to the town of Dalmellington, and through the villages of Patna, Dalrymple, and Alloway, birthplace of Robert Burns. The source of the Doon is Loch Enoch, high in the Galloway Hills.\n\nIn the 1930s the Loch Doon was dammed to provide water to the Galloway Hydro Electric Scheme, today operated by Scottish Power.\n\nThe Doon is mentioned in Burns' classic narrative poem \"Tam o' Shanter\", along with the Brig o' Doon, which spans across the river, just outside Alloway. The river is also the major setting for his lesser-known poem \"The Banks O' Doon\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300101", "title": "KDGS", "text": "KDGS\n\nKDGS, also known as \"Power 93.5\", is an Urban-leaning rhythmic contemporary hits outlet serving the Wichita, Kansas market. The station is licensed to Andover, Kansas, is owned by Entercom and broadcasts at 93.5 MHz with an ERP of 15 kW. The station's studios are located at North Woodlawn and East 21st in Northeast Wichita, while the transmitter is located at 1601 N. Rock Road in Wichita.\n\nKDGS was the only rhythmic-formatted station in Kansas until January 2015, when KKGQ debuted a Rhythmic Hot AC presentation (though that station would shift towards a more mainstream Hot AC format in October of that year). Although KDGS leans towards R&B/Hip-Hop product, (KPRS in Kansas City is based in Missouri, and airs an urban contemporary format), it also counters rival KZCH's rhythmic-leaning Top 40/CHR direction.\n\nThe station that is now KDGS was assigned a construction permit for 93.9 FM on July 23, 1993, and issued as KOAS. The station officially signed on the air as KDLE on October 28, 1993, and aired an Adult Contemporary format. On May 4, 1994, KDLE flipped the format to Urban Contemporary, filling the void that was left by the previous incarnations of KBUZ, which resided at 106.5 and 99.1 respectively. On December 8, 1995, they changed calls to KDGS and shifted to a Rhythmic Contemporary Hit direction with Rhythmic Pop/Dance product incorporated into its R&B/Hip-Hop fare, which they still continue with today. At some point in 1995, the station's moniker changed from \"K-Dogs\" to \"Power 93.9.\" In 1999, the station was acquired by Entercom Communications. KDGS was one of the first stations for Christopher \"Kidd Chris\" Foley, who is now at WEBN in Cincinnati as a weekday morning rock jock. Past Music Director Richard \"Ricardo Cherry\" Brugada was awarded Music Director of The Year in 1999 by S.I.N for the work he did with KDGS. Ricardo Cherry was the Music Director for KDGS from 1996-1999. He could also be heard as On-Air Talent from 1995-1999.\n\nOn May 21, 2014, the station applied to the FCC to change their transmitter location from South Wichita (near to the I-135/I-235 interchange) to East Wichita, downgrade their power to 15,000 watts, and shift frequencies to 93.5 FM. This was due to an FCC order to avoid adjacent channel interference with Bott Radio Network's KCVW (94.3 FM), as they applied to relocate their transmitter from west of Cheney Reservoir in Reno County to the Wichita master antenna farm in western Sedgwick County near Colwich and upgrade their signal to 94,000 watts to effectively cover the entire Wichita market. On October 15, 2014, at Midnight, KDGS went dark on 93.9 FM; after 2 hours off air, the station officially completed its move to 93.5 FM. KOTE in Eureka, broadcasting on 93.5 FM and owned by Niemeyer Communications, moved to 93.9 FM at the same time to reduce co-channel interference, effectively swapping frequencies between the two stations.\n\nIn early 2015, the station's studio will move to the Ruffin Building at 9111 East Douglas, formerly the Pizza Hut headquarters.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300102", "title": "Estadio Latinoamericano", "text": "Estadio Latinoamericano\n\nThe Estadio Latinoamericano (Spanish for \"Latin American Stadium\") is a stadium in Havana, Cuba. It is primarily used for baseball. Gran Estadio, a spacious pitchers' park with prevailing winds blowing in and boasting a playing surface and lighting system of major-league quality, was built in 1946 as the top baseball park in Latin America. Located in the Cerro neighborhood, it opened with the name Gran Estadio de La Habana and currently holds about 55,000 people. In 1999, it also hosted an exhibition series between the Cuban National Team and the Baltimore Orioles.\n\nThe Estadio Latinoamericano is popularly known in Cuba as \"The Colossus of Cerro\". It was initially named \"Gran Estadio de La Habana\" (Great Stadium of Havana), but it was then named \"Estadio del Cerro\" (Stadium of Cerro) until 1961, when it was renamed as \"Estadio Latinoamericano\" (Latin American Stadium) when Cuban professional baseball was stopped. It opened on October 26, 1946, surpassing La Tropical Stadium as the largest stadium in Havana.\n\nThe stadium debuted on October 26, 1946 before a crowd of 31,000 fans for a clash between the Almendares and Cienfuegos baseball teams, the largest crowd that had attended a sports event in Cuba. Almendares won the game 9-1. The Venezuelan Alejandro Carrasquel, who played for the Washington Senators in the Major League, threw the first pitch of the game.\n\nIn its 70 years, the stadium has been utilised for diverse spectacles including popular dance performances and boxing matches.\n\nThe stadium was renovated and expanded in the year 1971, with an enlargement of its stands, increasing the stadium to its present capacity of 55,000 spectators, and an extension of its gardens.\n\nOn March 22, 2016, the Tampa Bay Rays faced the Cuban national baseball team in an exhibition game. This was attended by numerous dignitaries, including President of the United States Barack Obama and Raul Castro. This game represented the thaw between the two countries that had occurred in recent years, and was broadcast live on ESPN. The Rays were selected after a lottery conducted by Major League Baseball. The Rays won 4-1.\n\nThe stadium has also been used for political purposes. In 1956, it was the location of a student demonstration headed by José Antonio Echeverría, against the Government of Fulgencio Batista.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300115", "title": "M67 grenade", "text": "M67 grenade\n\nThe M67 grenade is a fragmentation hand grenade used by the United States military. The M67 is a further development of the M33 grenade, itself a replacement for the M26-series grenades used during the Korean and Vietnam Wars, and the older Mk 2 \"pineapple\" grenade used since World War I.\n\nThe M67 grenade has a spheroidal steel body that contains of composition B explosive. It uses the M213 pyrotechnic delay fuze. The M67 grenade weighs in total and has a safety clip to prevent the safety pin on the grenade from being pulled accidentally. The safety pin prevents the safety lever, or \"spoon\" on the grenade from moving and releasing the spring-loaded striker which initiates the grenade's fuse assembly. The M67 is typically known as a \"baseball\" grenade, because it is shaped like a ball that can be easily thrown. \n\nThe M67 can be thrown by the average male soldier. Its fuze delays detonation between 4 and 5 seconds after the spoon is released. Steel fragments (not to be confused with shrapnel) are provided by the grenade body and produce an injury radius of , with a fatality radius of , though some fragments can disperse as far out as .\n\nTo deploy the M67 grenade, the user first removes the safety clip from the grenade.\n\nNext, the grenade's pull ring is grasped with the non-throwing hand while maintaining a firm grasp on the body of the grenade and safety lever (also referred to as the \"spoon\") with the throwing hand. The pull ring and safety pin assembly are fitted so that a right-handed thrower can grasp the grenade with the fuse assembly on top and the safety lever held down by the right thumb. A left-handed thrower should grasp the grenade with the fuse assembly on the bottom and the safety lever held down by the left thumb.\n\nThe user then pulls the grenade and pull ring assembly apart, removing the safety pin from the fuse assembly. At this time, the fuse remains unfired, as the throwing hand's thumb is holding the safety lever down.\n\nThe user then throws the grenade at the intended target, taking care that the grenade does not strike an obstacle that could deflect the grenade, bounce it back towards the thrower or allow it to roll towards the thrower or an unintended place. When the grenade is thrown, the safety lever will fly free (under pressure from the striker spring) and the striker will hit the cap, igniting the pyrotechnic delay element. When the delay element has burned approximately 4 to 5 seconds it will initiate the grenade's explosive filler, causing a large number of metal fragments to be projected at high velocities. The thrower and friendly personnel in the vicinity should take cover to protect themselves from unintended injury.\n\nThe M33 was the original successor to the M26 fragmentation grenade. It was essentially identical to the M67, but lacked the safety clip that is fitted to the safety lever of the M67.\n\nThis is a variant of the M67 fitted with the M217 impact fuze and a safety clip on the safety lever. This fuze has an electrical impact function which arms within 1 to 2 seconds and will detonate the grenade upon impact, and a back-up pyrotechnic delay function which will initiate the grenade after 3 to 7 seconds if the impact function fails. The M68 has the same specifications and markings as the M67 except it has a red-painted fuze and lever to indicate it has an impact fuze.\n\nPredecessors to the M68, these impact fuzed grenades used the M33 grenade body fitted with the M217 impact fuze, without a safety clip on the safety lever, and are marked in a similar manner to the M68.\n\nThe M69 grenade is used for grenade training to safely simulate the M67 grenade. The fuze screws into the body, and is replaceable after use. The simulator produces a report and small puff of white smoke when properly employed.\n\nThe M69 has a blue-painted lever and a blue body. This is to indicate that it is a safe practice grenade rather than a live fragmentation grenade like the M33 or M67.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300117", "title": "Slavic Greek Latin Academy", "text": "Slavic Greek Latin Academy\n\nThe Slavic Greek Latin Academy () was the first higher education establishment in Moscow.\n\nThe academy's establishment may be viewed as a result of the incorporation of the Left-Bank Ukraine into Muscovy after the Treaty of Pereyaslav. Under Fyodor Rtishchev's auspices, Epiphanius Slavinetsky and other learned monks moved from Kiev to Moscow and brought a taste for learning there. The Ukrainian and Polish influence was paramount at the court of Tsar Feodor III. In 1682, he signed the academy's charter (\"priviley\"), which had been elaborated by Sylvester Medvedev.\n\nThe academy was organized in 1685-1687 under the guidance of two Greek brothers Joannicus and Sophronius Likhud on the premises of the Zaikonospassky Monastery with over 70 students. The academy was placed under the care of the Patriarch Prikaz. The curriculum was divided into several levels (\"schools\"), including Slavonic and Greek writing, seven liberal arts (septem artes liberales), and theology.\n\nThe academy itself was named the \"Greek Latin School\", or \"Spassky schools\" (Спасские школы). After the dismissal of the Likhud brothers in 1694, their students Fedor Polikarpov-Orlov and Nikolay Semyonov (Golovin) became teachers at the academy. By the beginning of the 18th century, there had been more than 200 students at the Slavic Greek Latin Academy. In 1701, Peter the Great turned it into a state academy. A celibate priest Palladius (Rogovsky), president of the academy, invited the graduates of Lvov and Kiev seminaries (so-called \"brotherhood schools\"), familiar with educational practices of Western Europe, to teach at the Slavic Greek Latin Academy. After that, the Latin language became the principal teaching language of the establishment.\n\nThe curriculum consisted of two major stages, including elementary stage (grammar, arithmetics, geography, history, languages, dogmatism or theology) and highest stage (theory of poetry, rhetorics, philosophy, theology). The whole educational process lasted for 12 to 15 years. The education itself was similar to that of Western European universities.\n\nThe Slavic Greek Latin Academy produced not only theologians, but specialists for civil service, as well, such as medical professionals and translators. During the reign of Peter the Great, the academy began to gradually turn into a higher theological educational establishment, as opposed to many new secular professional schools. In 1721, the Slavic Greek Latin Academy was transferred under the care of the Holy Synod.\n\nThroughout the first half of the 18th century, the Slavic Greek Latin Academy had been considered the center of Russian culture and enlightenment. Its graduates turned out to be the most prepared for continuing education at the Academic University within the St Petersburg Academy of Sciences (founded in 1725), foreign universities, and teaching in general. Among those graduates were the first Russian academicians Mikhail Lomonosov and Vasily Trediakovsky, poet Antioch Kantemir, architect Vasili Bazhenov, geographer Stepan Krasheninnikov, chemist Dmitry Vinogradov.\n\nWhen Platon II was elected Metropolitan of Moscow (1775), new disciplines were introduced into the academic curriculum, such as law, ecclesiastic history, medicine, broadened selection of ancient and new European languages. Publishing activities were also revived, including popular books on Orthodox Christianity for children. In 1775, the Slavic Greek Latin Academy became the official name of the academy. It worked together with the Troitskaya theological seminary of the Troitse-Sergiyeva Lavra. In 1814, the Slavic Greek Latin Academy was transformed into the Ecclesiastical Academy (Theological Academy) and relocated to the Troitse-Sergieva Lavra.\n\nIn the 19th century the Academy continued as the principal theological school of the Russian Orthodox Church. Among its professors were the famous historian Vasily Klyuchevsky and the Christian philosopher Pavel Florensky. Since 1892 the Academy has been publishing the most authoritative journal on Russian Orthodoxy - \"Bogoslovsky vestnik\" (formerly edited by Gorsky-Platonov and Pavel Florensky). In 1888 the Academy trained more than 300 theological students.\n\nThe Bolsheviks closed the Academy in Troitse-Sergieva Lavra in 1918. Some professors of the Academy (including its former rector Archbishop Theodore (Pozdeevsky), professors I.V. Popov and Pavel Florensky) moved to the informal Higher Theological School in Moscow, but there were only a few students left.\n\nIn September 1943, at the peak of the World War II, Soviet leader Joseph Stalin met three metropolitans (Sergius, Alexis and Nicholas) of the Russian Orthodox Church and established the new policy of cooperation with the Orthodox Church. He promised to formally recognize and reopen the Higher Theological School. The promised school was opened as the Theological Institute in the Novodevichy Convent on June 14, 1944. It was the first official theologian school allowed in the Soviet Union. The program was prepared by Gregory (Chukov), Archbishop of Saratov and its first rector was S.V. Savinsky.\n\nIn 1946 the Theological Institute was transformed into the Moscow Seminary and Moscow Theological Academy. In 1947 the Academy gained the right to award theological degrees of Candidate, Doctor and Professor. In 1949 the Moscow Theological Academy was allowed to reclaim its original buildings at the Troitse-Sergieva Lavra, where they teach theological students to the present time. Most of the present bishops and theologians of Russian Orthodox Church have graduated from the Academy.\n\nDepartments, institutes and research centers as structural units and individual entities include:\n\n\nTraining is conducted in more than 150 profiles and areas of B.A, M.A and additional vocational training.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300120", "title": "Raelee Frazier", "text": "Raelee Frazier\n\nRaelee Frazier is a Denver sculptor who specializes in casting the hands of sports heroes in bronze.\n\nFrazier worked as a modelmaker for museums, making representations of historic figures and scientific materials. When the Colorado Rockies baseball franchise came to Denver in 1980 a local restaurant asked her to create a display of baseball-related artifacts. She had made life castings for museum clients, including the Smithsonian, so when she was introduced to Charlie Metro, former major league player, she asked if she could cast his hands holding a bat. Metro then collaborated with Frazier to identify 33 baseball players to contribute to a commemorative series of bronze hands holding a baseball bat. Each sculpture in this \"Hitter's Hands\" series includes its subjects signature on the bat, the base and a certificate.\n\nSubsequently, Frazier branched out to depict pitchers' hands holding a ball. She has also cast the hands of football quarterbacks, golfers and mountaineer Sir Edmund Hillary.\n\nHer cast of the hands of Ted \"Double Duty\" Radcliffe toured the US in 2005 in an exhibit entitled \"Shades of Greatness\" sponsored by the Negro Leagues Baseball Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300121", "title": "Eugène Berger", "text": "Eugène Berger\n\nEugène Berger (4 December 1960 – 21 January 2020) was a politician from Luxembourg. Berger studied to become a teacher, and worked in this profession from 1988 to 1994. In 1994, he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies for the Democratic Party. He was State Secretary of the Environment from 1999 to 2004.\n\nOn 1 October 1992, he became the first Luxembourger to climb Mount Everest, for which he won the title of Luxembourgish Sportsman of the Year. He had two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300127", "title": "Third Girl", "text": "Third Girl\n\nThird Girl is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in November 1966 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company the following year. The UK edition retailed at eighteen shillings (18/-) and the US edition at $4.50.\n\nIt features her Belgian detective Hercule Poirot and the recurring character Ariadne Oliver. The novel is notable for being the first in many years in which Poirot is present from beginning to end. It is uncommon in that the investigation includes discovering the first crime, which happens comparatively late in the novel.\n\nNorma Restarick seeks help from Poirot, believing she may have committed murder. When she sees him in person, she flees, saying he is too old. He pursues the case finding that Ariadne Oliver sent Norma to him. He believes there is a murder that prompted Norma's fears. Poirot and Mrs Oliver gather information, visiting her parents’ home and her apartment building. Norma does not return home after a weekend visit to her father and stepmother. Mrs Oliver finds her in a café by chance with her boyfriend David. Poirot meets Norma at the café, where she mentions the death again. After describing the odd times where she cannot recall what has happened she leaves in fear again. Mrs Oliver trails David, ending up in the hospital after being coshed on the head upon leaving his art studio. Poirot arranges for Dr Stillingfleet to follow Norma; he pulls her to safety from a close call with speeding traffic and brings her to his place for treatment and for safety.\n\nNorma's father Andrew abandoned her and her mother Grace when Norma was about 5 years old. Andrew had run off with a woman in a relationship that ended soon after. He travelled in Africa in financially successful ventures. Norma lived with her mother until Grace's death two and a half years before. Andrew returned to England after his brother Simon died a year earlier, to work in the family firm, arriving with a new young wife. Norma can recognize nothing familiar in this man, but accepts him. Norma is the third girl in her flat in the fashion of young women advertising for a third girl to share the rent. The main tenant is secretary to her newfound father; the other girl, Frances, travels often for the art gallery that employs her.\n\nMrs Oliver learns that a woman in the apartment building had recently died by falling from her window. A week passes before she tells Poirot, who feels this is what bothers Norma. The woman was Louise Charpentier. Norma says that her father ran off with Louise Birell. Later, Mrs Oliver finds a piece of paper linking Louise Charpentier to Andrew. Mary Restarick has been ill from poison in her food. Sir Roderick engages Poirot to find documents missing from his files which encounter brings young Sonia under suspicion.\n\nNorma is lured from Dr Stillingfleet by an ad in the newspaper to meet David, and is again drugged. Frances kills David. She sets it up to appear that Norma did it, but the blood on the knife was congealed when Norma found herself holding it. With police and family gathered in the flat, Poirot announces that Andrew did die in Africa. Robert Orwell is posing as her father to gain the wealth of the family. He had David paint portraits of him and his late wife in the style of a painter popular 20 years earlier as part of the ruse. Most cruelly, he and his wife have been giving Norma various drugs that give her hallucinations and an altered sense of time, to set her up as guilty. Further, the wife had poisoned herself hoping to pin that on Norma, too. Louise wrote to Andrew on learning he was back in England, so Frances killed Louise; this is the murder Norma feared she did. The woman posing as her stepmother was also Frances, who used a blonde wig to cover her dark hair when changing roles. Poirot takes the wig from her bag to make that point. Murder of the two who could expose the imposters was just one of her crimes. Sonia is exonerated when she finds the papers Sir Roderick misplaced, and the two will marry. Poirot had chosen Dr Stillingfleet to help him with Norma in hopes the two would marry, and they will.\n\n\n\"Residing at Sir Roderick's home at Long Basing:\"\n\n\"Residing at Borodene Mansions:\"\n\nUnusually for this period, \"The Guardian\" didn't carry a review of the novel.\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" of 13 November 1966 concluded, \"There is the usual double-take surprise solution centring round a perhaps rather artificial identity problem; but the suspense holds up all the way. Dialogue and characters are lively as flies. After this, I shan't be a bit surprised to see A.C. wearing a mini-skirt.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"One of Christie's more embarrassing attempts to haul herself abreast of the swinging 'sixties. Mrs Oliver plays a large part, detection a small one.\"\n\nThe novel reintroduces Stillingfleet, a character from the short story \"The Dream\" and first published in book form in the UK in \"The Adventure of the Christmas Pudding\" in 1960, and Mr Goby, whose previous appearance had been in \"After the Funeral\" in 1953.\n\nA television adaptation by Peter Flannery for the series \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\" starring David Suchet as Poirot and Zoë Wanamaker as Ariadne Oliver was filmed in April and May 2008. It aired on 28 September 2008 on ITV. The adaptation took major liberties with the novel, including the following changes:\n\n\nIn the US a condensed version of the novel appeared in the April 1967 (Volume 128, Number 6) issue of \"Redbook\" magazine with a photographic montage by Mike Cuesta.\n\nThis novel has been translated to various languages other than its original English. Over 20 are listed here. This is in keeping with the author's reputation for being the most translated author. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300134", "title": "Chris Montgomery", "text": "Chris Montgomery\n\nChristopher \"Monty\" Montgomery (born June 6, 1972) is an American programmer. He is the original creator of the Ogg Free Software container format and the Vorbis audio codec and others, and the founder of The Xiph.Org Foundation, which promotes public domain multimedia codecs. He is also known as \"Monty\"<ref name=\"http://www.advogato.org/article/56.html\">Advogato interview</ref> and uses \"xiphmont\" as an online pseudonym.\n\nHe holds a B.S. in electrical engineering and computer science from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a M.Eng. degree in computer engineering from the Tokyo Institute of Technology.\n\nA multimedia programmer, free software advocate and musician, Monty resides in the Boston area. He previously worked for Red Hat on improving the quality of the Ogg Theora format and decoders. In October 2013, he announced his almost immediate switch to Mozilla. Work on Daala will be an important part of his work there.\n\nMontgomery was the evening keynote at the Ohio LinuxFest in September 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300136", "title": "Method of levels", "text": "Method of levels\n\nThe method of levels (MOL) is a cognitive approach to psychotherapy (or an approach to cognitive behavioral therapy) based on perceptual control theory (PCT). Using MOL, the therapist aims to help the patient shift his or her awareness to higher levels of perception in order to resolve conflicts and allow reorganization to take place.\n\nPsychotherapy has generally focused on pathology, although there have been exceptions such as Carl Rogers' emphasis on the actualizing tendency. PCT contributes a useful perspective on psychological disorders by providing a model of satisfactory psychological functioning as successful control. Dysfunction then is understood as disruption of successful control, and distress as the experience that results from a person's inability to control important experiences. No attempt is made to treat the symptoms of distress as though they were in themselves the problem. The PCT perspective is that restoring the ability to control eliminates the source of distress. Internal conflict has the effect of denying control to both systems that are in conflict with each other. Conflict is usually transitory. When conflict becomes chronic, then symptoms of psychological disorder may appear.\nThe core process is to redirect attention to the higher level control systems by recognizing \"background thoughts\", bringing them into the foreground, and then being alert for more background thoughts while the new foreground thoughts are explored. When the level-climbing process reaches an end state without encountering any conflicts, the need for therapy may have ended. When, however, this \"up-a-level\" process bogs down, a conflict has probably surfaced, and the exploration can be turned to finding the systems responsible for generating the conflict—and away from a preoccupation with the symptoms and efforts immediately associated with the conflict.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300145", "title": "Mille Lacs Indians", "text": "Mille Lacs Indians\n\nThe Mille Lacs Indians (Ojibwe: Misi-zaaga'iganiwininiwag), also known as the Mille Lacs and Snake River Band of Chippewa, are a Band of Indians formed from the unification of the Mille Lacs Band of Mississippi Chippewa (Ojibwe) with the Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Sioux (Dakota). Today, their successor apparent Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe consider themselves as being Ojibwe, but many on their main reservation have the \"ma'iingan\" (wolf) as their chief doodem (clan), which is an indicator of Dakota origins.\n\nMille Lacs Indians, because of their mixed Chippewa-Sioux heritage, have become the cultural lynch-pin linking the two former warring nations into a single people, providing Ojibwe culture and customs to the Dakota just as providing Dakota culture and customs to the Ojibwe. All of the drums held among the Mille Lacs Indians are of Dakota origins, singing Dakota melodies but translated into Ojibwe.\n\nThe first group forming the Mille Lacs Indians were the \"Mdewáḳaŋtuŋwaŋ Oyate\" or the Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Dakota. The Mdewakanton Dakota were the western sub-division of the Isanti Dakota, who formed the Eastern Dakota division. Of the Mdewakanton Dakota who originally lived along all along the shores of Mille Lacs Lake, Rum River and portages connecting them to other areas, with the Battle of Kathio, the majority of the Mdewakanton Dakota were forced south and west. However, despite resource access hardship due to conflicts between the Dakota and Ojibwe peoples, the Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Dakota remained in the area. When the Dakota Council came to meet with the Ojibwe on terms of territorial control shifts, the Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Dakota chose to remain and forgo their Dakota identity to become Ojibwe and remain at \"mde waḳaŋ\" (Spiritual/Mystic Lake). As Ojibwe, Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Dakota ensured the ceremonies associated with the Mille Lacs Lake were continued. Mille Lacs Band of Mdewakanton Dakota lived primarily on the three ricing chain of lakes (Ogechie, Shakopee and Onamia) at the head-waters of the Rum River and along the southern and southwestern shores of Mille Lacs Lake.\n\nSecond group forming the Mille Lacs Indians were the Mille Lacs Band of Border-sitter Chippewa, Band of the Border-sitter sub-nation of the Lake Superior Chippewa. The Mille Lacs Band of Border-sitter Chippewa were part of the western division of the Border-sitter Chippewa known as the \"Manoominikeshiinyag\" or the \"Ricing Rails\" or the \"St. Croix Division\". Mille Lacs Band of Border-sitter lived primarily along Groundhouse River, Ann River, Knife River (all located south of Mille Lacs Lake, and tributaries of the Snake River), the portage ways connecting these three rivers to Mille Lacs Lake and the Rum River, and along the southeastern shores of Mille Lacs Lake. This group already were a mixed Dakota-Ojibwe entity, identifying themselves equally as Dakota and as Ojibwe.\n\nThird group forming the Mille Lacs Indians were the Mille Lacs Band of Mississippi Chippewa, a band associated with the powerful Mississippi Chippewa. Mille Lacs Band of Mississippi Chippewa lived primarily along Nokasippi River, Cedar River and Ripple River (all located north and northwest of Mille Lacs Lake), the portage ways connecting these three rivers to Mille Lacs Lake, and along the northwestern and northern shores of Mille Lacs Lake.\n\nThe unification process among the three component historical bands began in ernest after the Battle of Kathio in which the Mille Lacs Band of Mississippi Chippewa gained majority control of the Mille Lacs Lake. In the Battle of Kathio, majority of the Dakota peoples were removed from the Mille Lacs Lake area and generally forced southward and westward from Lake. However, due to the sacredness of \"mde wáḳaŋ\" (Mille Lacs Lake), a peace council ending the territorial conflicts between the Ojibwe and Dakota was held on Mozomanie Point on the south end of the Lake, according to oral traditions, about 1750. At this peace council, the Ojibwe and the Dakota present were given a choice, where the Dakota peoples remaining would be peacefully incorporated as Ojibwe, but the Ojibwe would have to maintain all the rites associated with the Lake to maintain the sacredness of this body of water. In agreement, the Ojibwe learned all the Dakota ceremonial dances and songs over the course of the entire summer, while the remaining Dakota became \"Ojibwe\". As the distinct \"Ojibwe\" and \"Dakota\" identification no longer was appropriate, the unified entity became the \"Misi-zaaga'iganiwininiwag\" or the \"Mille Lacs Indians\". The traditional location for the joint council of the many sub-bands of the Mille Lacs Indians was maintained at \"Zaagawaamikaag-wiidwedong\" (or \"Zaagawaaming\", for short), just as it was with \"Mdewáḳaŋtuŋwaŋ Oyate\" before. \"Zaagawaaming\", recorded as \"Sagawamick\" or \"Sagawahmick\" in various Bureau of Indian Affairs and Bureau of American Ethnology documents, still exists to this day but evolved into the Village of Lawrence and later as the City of Wahkon. However, with the establishment of the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe, the center of tribal government shifted to north and west to Vineland.\n\nThe Mille Lacs Indians entered the treaty period by sending Chief Nayquonabe (from the Ojibwe \"Negwanebi\", \"'Tallest' [Quill]feather\") to the 1825 Council for the First Treaty of Prairie du Chien (). Mille Lacs Indians participated in the 1826 Council for the Treaty of Fond du Lac. As part of the \"Biitan-akiing-enabijig\" Ojibwe, Mille Lacs Indians ceded great tract of land in Minnesota and Wisconsin in the 1837 Treaty of St. Peters (), but retained usufruct rights for hunting, fishing and gathering. As part of the Mdewakanton Dakota, Mille Lacs Indians ceded lands in the 1837 Treaty of Washington. Together with the Lake Superior Chippewa, the Mille Lacs Indians ceded lands in northern Wisconsin and western Upper Peninsula of Michigan in the 1842 Treaty of La Pointe, then in central Minnesota in the 1847 Treaty of Fond du Lac.\n\nTogether with the Pillager Chippewas and other Mississippi Chippewas in the 1855 Treaty of Washington (), Mille Lacs Indians ceded large tract of land in northern Minnesota, excluding the Arrowhead Region (which its claim was rescinded in the 1854 Treaty of La Pointe) and the northwestern-most corner of Minnesota; in exchange, the Mille Lacs Indian reserved for themselves the south shore of Mille Lacs Lake, becoming the Mille Lacs Indian Reservation. However, as this land reserved was previously ceded to the United States in the 1837 Treaty of St. Peters, this caused a dispute between the lumbermen in the area and the Mille Lacs Indians. As the lumbermen had constructed a dam in Ericksonville, [and that location near the outlet of Lake Onamia was called \"Gibakwa'iganiing\" (By the Dam) or \"Gibakwa'igaansing\" (By the Little Dam) by the Ojibwe] to regulate the water flow of the Rum River for floating logs down the river, but the damming of the water threatened the wild rice in Lake Onamia, the Mille Lacs Indians removed the dam. This became the first court case for the Mille Lacs Indians, in 1856, the US Supreme Court judged in favor of the tribe.\nWith the Dakota War of 1862, many Chippewa Bands aided the Dakota people. When Mille Lacs Indians Chief \"Máza-mani\" (Iron-Walker) learned of the plans of Gull Lake Band Chief \"Bagonegiizhig\" (Hole in the Day) to attack Fort Ripley, Chief \"Máza-mani\" raised a party of 200 men and they set out to aid the fort in advance, thus averting Chief \"Bagonegiizhig\"s attack on the fort.\n\nIn the 1863 Treaty of Washington () and again in 1864 (), while most all other Chippewa Bands were being forced to relocate due to their aid to the Dakota people, Mille Lacs Indians, due to their aid to the United States, were not. As stated in the Treaties, \"That owing to the heretofore good conduct of the Mille Lac Indians, they shall not be compelled to remove so long as they shall not in any way interfere with or in any manner molest the property of persons of the whites.\"\n\nWhen the White Earth Indian Reservation was established, like the rest of the Mississippi Chippewa, the Mille Lacs Indians were also encouraged to relocate. Many Mille Lacs Indians became homeless so under , homesteading and cemetery lands were secured for the Mille Lacs Indians. After the signing of the \"An act for the relief and civilization of the Chippewa Indians in the State of Minnesota\" (51st-1st-Ex.Doc.247) and a removal bill on May 27, 1902, many Mille Lacs Indians did remove themselves to the White Earth Inidan Reserveration, becoming the Removable Mille Lacs Band. Others remained on the Mille Lacs Indian Reservation, becoming the Non-removable Mille Lacs Band. Within few years, many of the Removable Mille Lacs Band left White Earth and returned to Mille Lacs, splitting the group onto two separate Indian Reservations.\n\nWhen the BIA asked for a consultation council to be held in Hayward, Wisconsin, regards to the 1934 Indian Reorganization Act, Mille Lacs Indians sent delegates there without signature authority to gather information.\n\nWhen the Minnesota Chippewa Tribe was established in 1936 under the authority of the Indian Reorganization Act, the Non-removable and Removable Mille Lacs Bands of the Mille Lacs Indians became the core Band of the Mille Lacs Band of Ojibwe, joined together with the Non-removable Sandy Lake Band of Mississippi Chippewa, Rice Lake Band of Mississippi Chippewa, and the communities of the St. Croix Chippewa Indians of Minnesota.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300153", "title": "Wendy Russell Reves", "text": "Wendy Russell Reves\n\nWendy Russell Reves (May 2, 1916 – March 13, 2007) was an American philanthropist, socialite, and former fashion model.\n\nShe was born Wyn-Nelle Russell in Marshall, Texas, and adopted the name Wendy as an adult.\n\nHer modeling career began in 1939, and she appeared in \"Harper's Bazaar\" and \"Vogue\". Virginia Pope, the fashion critic of \"The New York Times\", described her as \"one of New York's most-seen manikins [sic].\"\n\nWendy's first husband, Al Schroeder, was a West Point graduate she met when he was stationed in Randolph Field in San Antonio, Texas. Wendy was barely sixteen when they discussed marriage, but was persuaded by her mother to wait until her seventeenth birthday to marry. One year later they had a son, Arnold Leon Schroeder.\n\nIn 1940, she married Paul Baron (b. 1911), a pianist and conductor who was the leader of the Paul Baron Orchestra, a well-known studio band of the 1930s and 1940s. He was a vocal arranger for Fifi D'Orsay, Nanette Fabray, Jane Froman, Elvira Rios, Mildred Bailey, and Lupe Vélez and was co-writer of the popular song \"Rum and Coca-Cola\", which was a hit song in 1945 for the Andrews Sisters. Wendy Russell dated Cary Grant, Howard Hughes, and Errol Flynn, and was seen often at the Stork Club and El Morocco.\n\nFrom 1948, she was the mistress of Emery Reves (né Révész Imre, 1904–1981), a Hungarian-born writer, publisher, financier, art collector, founder of the anti-fascist Cooperation Press Service, and advocate of world federalism. The couple married in 1964 in Thonex, Switzerland.\n\nA first cousin of the conductor Sir Georg Solti and a literary agent for and close friend of Winston Churchill, Emery Reves described his wife as \"a woman with a brilliant mind and imagination, tempered by much common sense. She is a woman who never bored me\". In 1953, the couple bought La Pausa, a villa in Roquebrune-Cap-Martin, France, which had been built for Coco Chanel by the Duke of Westminster. \n\nWinston Churchill, by then semi-retired from politics, spent much of the years from 1956 to 1959 as a guest at La Pausa. He was rarely accompanied by his wife Clementine Churchill, who did not care greatly for Emery and is said to have strongly disliked Wendy. This dislike led to a cooling in the friendship between her husband and Reves, of which there is eloquent testimony in an anguished letter from Reves to Churchill early in 1960, refusing to have him at La Pausa again. Reves shows a deep concern for Wendy's mental health in this letter, referring to her emotional fragility and battle with depression, for which he seemed to hold the Churchills at least partly responsible.\n\nFollowing her husband's 1981 death, Reves devoted herself to charitable endeavors. Among her philanthropies was the establishment of the Wendy and Emery Reves wing of the Dallas Museum of Art in 1985 (a recreation of six rooms of the Reves' villa), which displays the Reveses' extensive art collection as it was originally displayed at their villa, and the Wendy and Emery Reves Center for International Studies at the College of William & Mary (established with a $3 million grant); the adjacent residence hall is also named for the couple. She also donated $25,000 to begin the Wonderland of Lights, which has become one of the largest light festivals in the United States. She was instrumental in convincing Janine Michelson, the widow of Leo Michelson, to found the Michelson Museum of Art in Marshall, Texas, to house the Michelsons' art collection.\n\nOther philanthropic gifts included a $2 million endowment to the Susan G. Komen Breast Cancer Foundation and UT Southwestern Medical Center, establishing an international breast cancer symposium and a diagnostic and treatment center.\n\nAn additional $2 million went to the Morton H. Meyerson Symphony Center in Dallas, which features an entry arch named for Emery Reves.\n\nReves died on March 13, 2007, aged 90, at a hospital near her villa in France.\n"}
{"id": "2300160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300160", "title": "Mk 2 grenade", "text": "Mk 2 grenade\n\nThe Mk 2 grenade (initially known as the Mk II) is a fragmentation type anti-personnel hand grenade introduced by the U.S. armed forces in 1918. It was the standard issue anti-personnel grenade used during World War II and in later conflicts, including the Vietnam War. Replacing the failed Mk 1 grenade of 1917, it was standardized in 1920 as the Mk II, and redesignated the Mk 2 on April 2, 1945.\n\nThe Mk 2 was replaced by the M26-series (M26/M61/M57) and later M33 series (M33/M67). It was phased out gradually in service beginning with the Korean War. Due to the tremendous quantity manufactured during World War II, it was in limited standard issue with the US Army and US Marine Corps throughout the 1950s and 1960s. The U.S. Navy was one of the last users when it was discontinued in 1969.\n\nThe Mk 2 grenade replaced the failed Mk 1 grenade used by the U.S. military during World War I. 44 million were ordered and more than 21 million were completed (it was possible to convert Mk 1 grenade bodies to the Mk 2 configuration) before the war ended, but few reached American troops overseas. It was formally standardized in 1920. The Mk 2, like the Mk 1, was manufactured of cast iron with a grooved surface divided into 40 knobs in 5 rows of 8 columns. This was to enhance fragmentation (in practice, it was found that the grooves did not enhance fragmentation as much as desired ) and provide a better grip when handling and throwing the grenade. The grooves and knobs gave it the appearance of a pineapple, and are the origin of that nickname. It was also commonly referred to as a \"frag\" grenade, in contrast to other types of grenades such as the Mk 3 grenade concussion grenade.\n\nThe Mk 2 used the M5, M6, M10, M11, or M204 series fuses. The early M5, and the later M6 and M204 series detonating fuses, were used on high explosive-filled grenades. The M10 and M11 series igniting fuses were used on low explosive-filled ones. The early fuses had many problems. In the M5, moisture could get in under the foil fuse cap, causing the weapon to fail to detonate. The early fuses were not completely silent and made a loud \"bang\" and produced sparks when activated. They also made a faint \"hissing\" sound while burning, potentially alerting the enemy of their presence. The M10, used during the interwar period, and the M10A1, used early in WWII, sometimes prematurely detonated when the flash from the primer hit the explosive charge rather than the delay fuse. They were replaced by the M10A2 and M10A3. A less common type of igniting fuse was the M11.\n\nThe M6A4C had a delay of 4 seconds. The M5 and M11, like the M10, M10A1 and M10A2, had a delay of 4 to 5 seconds. The later M10A3 had a delay of 4.5 to 5.3 seconds. In 1944, the M6A4C was replaced by the silent and more reliable 4 to 5 second delay M204 or M204A1 fuse. Due to the large number of grenades already issued, few grenades with the new fuses were used in combat during WWII.\n\nThe original Mk 2 grenade had a threaded plug in its base, which covered the opening used to place the explosive filling, either of TNT, of Trojan explosive (a mixture of 40% nitrostarch, ammonium nitrate, and sodium nitrate), of a 50/50 amatol/nitrostarch mixture, or of Grenite (a mixture of 95% nitrostarch and binders). Some early Mk 2 grenades were filled with of smokeless EC powder. The improved \"Mk 2A1\" (a designation used informally by armorers, historians, and collectors but was never officially by the US military) introduced in 1942 was filled through the fuse well instead. The Mk 2A1 was initially filled with of EC powder. In 1944, the EC powder filling was replaced with of TNT.\n\nLow explosive-filled Mk 2s had their cast iron bodies painted gray or black to prevent rust. Pre-WWII high explosive-filled Mk 2s were painted bright yellow. During wartime (from about 1943 onwards), grenades were overpainted in olive drab, leaving a narrow yellow ring remaining at the top. Not all were overpainted, however, as D-Day film footage shows. Mk 2 practice grenades were painted red (a practice copied from the French military). M21 practice grenades were painted light blue (a practice copied from the British military) and had blue-painted fuse levers, often with the end painted light brown indicating a \"low explosive\" marking charge.\n\nMk 2 grenades came 25 to a wooden crate and were shipped in small fiberboard packing tubes. High explosive-filled Mk 2s were shipped unfused to prevent accidental detonation. Their fuses were shipped separately and came in flat cardboard boxes of 25. EC powder-filled grenades were shipped with their fuses attached.\n\nVariants included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300161", "title": "James C. Auchincloss", "text": "James C. Auchincloss\n\nJames Coats Auchincloss (January 19, 1885 – October 2, 1976) was an American businessman and Republican Party politician who represented in the United States House of Representatives from 1943–1965.\n\nAuchincloss was born in Manhattan, New York City on January 19, 1885. He was one of eight children, seven sons and one daughter, born to Edgar Stirling Auchincloss (1847–1892) and Maria LeGrange (née Sloan) Auchincloss (1847–1929), who married in 1872. \n\nAmong his uncles were Hugh Dudley Auchincloss (father of Hugh D. Auchincloss, Jr.) and John Winthrop Auchincloss (grandfather of Louis Auchincloss). His maternal aunt Sarah Auchincloss married Sir James Coats, 1st Baronet of the Scottish thread-manufacturing family (and his namesake), and they were the parents of Sir Stuart Coats, 2nd Baronet and British Member of Parliament. His maternal grandparents were Mary (née Elmendorf) Sloan and New York State Senator Samuel Sloan, who served as president of the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western Railroad for 26 years.\n\nHe attended the Cutler School in Manhattan, New York City; and Groton School in Groton, Massachusetts. He graduated from Yale University in 1908.\n\nFrom 1908 until 1940, he engaged in financial and stock brokerage business with Auchincloss, Joost & Company located at 60 Broadway in New York City. He was a governor of the New York Stock Exchange from 1921 to 1938 (after buying his seat on the Exchange on January 27, 1910 for $92,000, the highest price paid up to that time). He was also the founder, treasurer, president, and chairman of the board of the New York Better Business Bureau.\n\nFrom 1909 to 1913, Auchincloss served in the Seventh Regiment of the New York National Guard and as Deputy Police Commissioner of New York City. During World War I, he served as captain, Military Intelligence.\n\nHe was a member of the Rumson, New Jersey borough council from 1930 to 1937, and served as the borough's mayor from 1938 to 1943.\n\nAuchincloss was elected as a Republican to the Seventy-eighth United States Congress, as well as the ten succeeding Congresses serving from January 3, 1943 until January 3, 1965. Auchincloss voted in favor of the Civil Rights Acts of 1957, 1960, and 1964, as well as the 24th Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. He was not a candidate for reelection in 1964 to the Eighty-ninth Congress. While in Congress, he founded the Capitol Hill Club in Washington, D.C. in 1951.\n\nOn October 23, 1909, he was married to Lee Frances Alexander (1888–1959) by the Rev. Dr. Endicott Peabody at the Chapel of the Intercession in New York. Lee, a 1909 graduate of Barnard College, was a daughter of Dr. Welcome T. Alexander and Aimee G. (née Thayer) Alexander. Together, they resided at various residences, including first at 772 Park Avenue in New York and then in Rumson, New Jersey, and were the parents of:\n\n\nAfter her death in 1959, he married Vera Rogers Brown, a daughter of Dr. and Mrs. David T. Brown of Chicago, on November 18, 1960.\n\nHe died at a nursing home in Alexandria, Virginia on October 2, 1976, aged 91. After a funeral service at the Fifth Avenue Presbyterian Church, he was interred in Woodlawn Cemetery, the Bronx, New York City.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300162", "title": "Sidewalk Film Festival", "text": "Sidewalk Film Festival\n\nThe Sidewalk Film Festival is an annual film festival taking place during the last weekend in August in the Theatre District of Birmingham, Alabama, since 1999. The festival typically screens at seven venues located within downtown Birmingham, featuring the restored Alabama Theatre, a 2,200 seat movie palace built by Paramount in 1927, and multiple screening rooms in the Alabama School of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 2006, the Sidewalk Moving Picture Festival recognized writer/director John Sayles and producer Maggie Renzi for their more than two decades of collaboration in independent film, which includes such acclaimed indie classics as \"The Brother From Another Planet\", \"Passion Fish\", \"Lone Star\", and the Sidewalk 2004 Opening Night Film, \"Silver City\".\n\nIn 2005, Sidewalk honored actor John C. Reilly with the inaugural Spirit of Sidewalk award.\n\nSidewalk incorporated in 1999 as Alabama Moving Image Association with founders Kelli McCall Franklin, Wayne Franklin, and Erik Jambor; the festival debuted as Sidewalk Moving Picture Festival in the Theatre District of Birmingham, Alabama. Taking place during the first weekend in May, the first festival venues included the Alabama Theatre, a repurposed bank building, an outdoor screen, and outdoor tents; about 4,000 people attended the weekend. \n\nSidewalk has had three executive directors since 1999. Erik Jambor, a co-founder of the festival, served as executive director from 1999 to 2006; during the 2007 festival season, Catherine Pfitzer was promoted from operations manager to executive director. Chloe Cook was hired as executive director in 2009.\n\nOver time, Sidewalk has accumulated many programs that run throughout the year. Their education and outreach efforts include a youth board, which creates a short film and judges other teen-made movies submitted to the festival; a Screentalks program, which involves the screening of an independent film and a panel discussion; and the monthly Salon, where local filmmakers give panel discussions or lectures on their craft.\n\nIn 2006, SHOUT LGBTQ Film Festival was founded by Jeremy Erdreich, David R. Garrett, Catherine Pfitzer, and Larry Slater. In 2010, Sidewalk officially changed its name to Sidewalk Film Festival, and Sidewalk and SHOUT merged festival weekends. \n\nSidewalk first garnered critical praise outside of Alabama when TIME Magazine listed the festival in its article \"Top 10 Film Festivals for the Rest of Us.\" \n\nIn 2017, Sidewalk Film Festival Executive Director Chloe Cook announced plans to open a permanent independent cinema in Birmingham, in the basement of the restored Pizitz Building. In August 2019, Sidewalk opened the Sidewalk Film Center + Cinema in the Pizitz Building. The cinema includes two 90-seat theaters and a classroom.\n\nFilms are given awards both by jury and audience choice. Over the years, some categories have been added or eliminated and sponsors have varied. There are also several special awards given annually, such as the Alan Hunter Best Alabama Film Award, the Clint Howard Character Actor Award, and the Kathryn Tucker Windham Storyteller Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300163", "title": "Endless Night (novel)", "text": "Endless Night (novel)\n\nEndless Night is a crime novel by Agatha Christie, first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club on 30 October 1967 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company the following year. The UK edition retailed at eighteen shillings (18/-) and the US edition at $4.95. It was one of her favourites of her own works and received some of the warmest critical notices of her career upon publication.\n\nThe title comes from William Blake's \"Auguries of Innocence\":\n\nThe story begins with Michael telling us about his time as a chauffeur and how he met the architect Rudolph Santonix. He plans to one day have a house built by Santonix. Michael is walking along a village road near the Gipsy's Acre property one day when he meets Ellie, a wealthy heiress who wants to escape from her world of snobby friends, begging relatives, and restrictive financial advisors. As it turns out Ellie had purchased Gipsy's Acre before they met, they decide to marry and build a house at Gipsy's Acre acre with Santonix. The newlywed couple decides to go around the village meeting its residents but is threatened by an old gypsy woman, Ms. Lee, who warns them and instructs them to leave because of a curse.\n\nEllie sustains an injury and invites her companion, Greta Andersen, over to stay with them. Ellie begins to worry about Mike and Greta, as they get into heated arguments. While at lunch with Major Philpot, Mike begins to worry about the fact that Ellie has not yet joined them after going out horse riding. The next day, they find Ellie dead and having sustained no apparent injuries, the local police determine that Ellie died of shock, likely induced when she encountered Ms. Lee. Ellie also had a heart condition. Michael travels to America to attend Ellie’s funeral with her family and collect the inheritance. While there he hears that Ms. Lee has been found dead in a quarry, and Claudia Hardcastle (one of Ellie’s friends from the village) has also died whilst out riding. After Ellie's funeral, Mike goes to visit Santonix on his deathbed. Right before Santonix dies, he screams, “You should have gone the other way!” Feeling disturbed by this, Mike returns to the UK on a sea voyage to give him time to reflect.\n\nWhen he returns to the village Mike reveals how he and Greta had met much earlier when in Germany, they had fallen in love and devised a plan to take Ellie’s money. They killed her with cyanide put inside her allergy pills that took a while to dissolve, and paid Ms. Lee to frighten Ellie and raise suspicion of the shock theory. To eliminate her as a witness, they pushed Ms. Lee into a quarry. Claudia Hardcastle was unintentionally poisoned after finding and taking some of Ellie's pills. It's assumed that Santonix had guessed Michael’s intents and was trying to warn him of the rage fits he (Mike) had. He and Greta celebrate what they have done, but Michael starts to lapse and sees Ellie everywhere he looks. When they realise Ellie's relatives may have suspicions about them, Mike has another fit and strangles Greta. Shortly afterwards, the police and the local doctor arrive; their suspicions were aroused by Claudia Hardcastle's death. Mike reminisces about all of the bad things he has done, such as drowning his childhood friend to steal his watch. He asks for a pen and paper to write down his story, and the novel ends.\n\nThe following details of the characters are based on the original novel. Backstories, backgrounds, and names vary with differing international adaptations, based on censorship, cultural norms, etc.\n\n\nThe novel was published in 1967. Christie later said she normally wrote her books in three to four months but wrote \"Endless Night\" six weeks. The novel – which recycles plots and characters Christie had used in \"The Murder of Roger Ackroyd\" and \"Death on the Nile\" – is dedicated \"To Nora Prichard from whom I first heard the legend of Gipsy's Acre.\" Nora Prichard was the paternal grandmother of Mathew, Christie's only grandson. Gipsy's Acre was a field located on a Welsh moorland. \"The Times Literary Supplement\" of 16 November 1967 said, \"It really is bold of Agatha Christie to write in the \"persona\" of a working-class boy who marries a poor little rich girl, but in a pleasantly gothic story of gypsy warnings she brings it all off, together with a nicely melodramatic final twist.\"\n\n\"The Guardian\" carried a laudatory review in its issue of 10 November 1967 by Francis Iles (Anthony Berkeley Cox) who said, \"The old maestrina of the crime-novel (or whatever is the female of 'maestro') pulls yet another out of her inexhaustible bag with \"Endless Night\", quite different in tone from her usual work. It is impossible to say much about the story without giving away vital secrets: sufficient to warn the reader that if he should think this is a romance he couldn't be more mistaken, and the crashing, not to say horrific suspense at the end is perhaps the most devastating that this surpriseful author has ever brought off.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" of 5 November 1967 began, \"She changes her style again and makes a determined and quite suspenseful attempt to be with it.\" He finished, \"I shan't give away who murders whom, but the suspense is kept up all the way and Miss Christie's new demi-tough, streamlined style really does come off. She'll be wearing black leather pants next, if she isn't already.\" The poet and novelist Stevie Smith chose the novel as one of her \"Books of the Year\" in the same newspaper's issue of 10 December 1967 when she said, \"I mostly read Agatha Christie this year (and every year). I wish I could write more about what she does for one in the way of lifting the weight, and so on.\"\n\nRobert Barnard: \"The best of the late Christies, the plot a combination of patterns used in \"Ackroyd\" and \"Nile\" (note similarities in treatment of heiress/heroine's American lawyers in \"Nile\" and here, suggesting she had been rereading). The murder occurs very late, and thus the central section seems desultory, even novelettish (poor little rich girl, gypsy's curse, etc.). But all is justified by the conclusion. A splendid late flowering.\"\n\nA short story collection by Agatha Christie, titled \"Miss Marple's Final Cases and Two Other Stories\", published in October 1979, features a short story called \"The Case of the Caretaker\" whose overall plot is the same as \"Endless Night\", although the character names are different.\n\n\"‘The Case of the Caretaker’ was first published in Strand Magazine, January 1942, and then in the USA in Chicago Sunday Tribune, 5 July 1942.\" from \"Miss Marple – Miss Marple and Mystery: The Complete Short Stories (Miss Marple)\" by Agatha Christie\n\nIn 1972, Sidney Gilliat directed a film adaption starring Hayley Mills, Britt Ekland, Per Oscarsson, Hywel Bennett and George Sanders (who committed suicide before the film's release). The film received mixed reviews, and following an unsuccessful run in the United Kingdom, was not released theatrically in the United States.\n\nChristie was initially pleased by Gilliat's involvement and the casting. However, she was disappointed in the finished product, calling it \"lacklustre.\" She also voiced her reservations about the film featuring a brief nude scene with Ekland at the end.\n\n\"Endless Night\" was presented as a one-hour radio play in the \"Saturday Theatre\" strand on BBC Radio 4 on 30 August 2008 at 2.30pm. The play's recording took place at Broadcasting House and had an original score composed by Nicolai Abrahamsen.\n\nAdaptor: Joy Wilkinson\nProducer/Director: Sam Hoyle\nCast:\n\"Jonathan Forbes\" as Mike\n\"Lizzy Watts\" as Ellie\n\"Sara Stewart\" as Greta\n\"Joan Walker\" as Cora/Mike's Mother\n\"Victoria Lennox\" as Mrs Lee\n\"Chris Pavlo\" as Mr Constantine/Auctioneer/Policeman/Assistant\n\"John Rowe\" as Philpott/Lippincott\n\"Joseph Tremain\" as Young Mike/Army Boy\n\"Dan Starkey\" as Santonix/Frank\n\"Thomas Brown-Lowe\" as Oscar\n\n\"Endless Night\" was released by HarperCollins as a graphic novel adaptation on 3 November 2008, adapted by François Rivière and illustrated by Frank Leclercq ().\n\nAlthough the book did not feature Miss Marple, it is part of the sixth series of \"Agatha Christie's Marple\", starring Julia McKenzie. It aired first on Argentina's Film&Arts on Wednesday 20 November, Australia's ABC on Sunday 22 December 2013, and aired on ITV on Sunday 29 December 2013. This adaptation by Kevin Elyot remains fairly faithful to the book, although, in addition to adding Miss Marple, it identifies the boyhood friend murdered for his wristwatch by Rogers with the architect's brother, who does not appear in the original novel. The architect (named Robbie Hayman in this TV adaption) ends up burning down the house he has designed for Rogers after discovering his brother's watch in Rogers' desk drawer.\n\n\nIn the US, the novel was first serialised in two parts in \"The Saturday Evening Post\" from 24 February (Volume 241, Number 4) to 9 March 1968 (Volume 241, Number 5) with illustrations by Tom Adams.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300167", "title": "A Place in the Sun (film)", "text": "A Place in the Sun (film)\n\nA Place in the Sun is a 1951 American drama film based on the 1925 novel \"An American Tragedy\" by Theodore Dreiser and the 1926 play, also titled \"An American Tragedy\". It tells the story of a working-class young man who is entangled with two women: one who works in his wealthy uncle's factory, and the other a beautiful socialite. Another adaptation of the novel had been filmed once before, as \"An American Tragedy\", in 1931. All these works were inspired by the real-life murder of Grace Brown by Chester Gillette in 1906, which resulted in Gillette's conviction and execution by electric chair in 1908.\n\n\"A Place in the Sun\" was directed by George Stevens from a screenplay by Harry Brown and Michael Wilson, and stars Montgomery Clift, Elizabeth Taylor, and Shelley Winters; its supporting actors included Anne Revere, and Raymond Burr.\n\nThe film was a critical and commercial success, winning six Academy Awards and the first-ever Golden Globe Award for Best Motion Picture – Drama. In 1991, \"A Place in the Sun\" was selected for preservation in the United States National Film Registry by the Library of Congress as being \"culturally, historically, or aesthetically significant\".\n\nIn 1950, George Eastman (Montgomery Clift), the poor nephew of rich industrialist Charles Eastman (Herbert Heyes), arrives in town following a chance encounter with his uncle while working as a bellhop in a Chicago hotel. The elder Eastman invites George to visit him if and when he ever comes to town, and the ambitious young man takes advantage of the offer. Despite George's family relationship to the Eastmans, they regard him as something of an outsider, but his uncle nevertheless offers him an entry-level job at his factory. George, uncomplaining, hopes to impress his uncle (whom he addresses as \"Mr. Eastman\") with his hard work and earn his way up. While working in the factory, George starts dating fellow factory worker Alice Tripp (Shelley Winters), in defiance of the workplace rules. Alice is a poor and inexperienced girl who is dazzled by George and slow to believe that his Eastman name brings him no advantages.\n\nOver time, George begins a slow move up the corporate ladder into a supervisory position in the department where he began. He has submitted recommendations on improving production in his department, which finally catch the attention of his uncle, who invites him to their home for a social event. At the party, George finally meets \"society girl\" Angela Vickers (Elizabeth Taylor), whom he has admired from afar since shortly after arriving in town, and they quickly fall in love. Being Angela's escort thrusts George into the intoxicating and care-free lifestyle of high society that his rich Eastman kin had denied him. When Alice announces that she is pregnant and makes it clear that she expects George to marry her, he puts her off, spending more and more of his time with Angela and his new well-heeled friends. An attempt to procure an abortion for Alice fails, and she renews her insistence on marriage. George is invited to join Angela at the Vickers's holiday lake house over Labor Day and excuses himself to Alice, saying that the visit will advance his career and accrue to the benefit of the coming child.\nGeorge and Angela spend time at secluded Loon Lake, where Angela tells George the story of a couple's supposed drowning there, with the man's body never being found.\n\nMeanwhile, Alice finds a picture in the newspaper of George and Angela boating with friends, and realizes that George lied to her about his intentions for wanting to go to the lake. During a dinner which is attended by the Eastman and Vickers families, George appears to be on the verge of finally advancing into the business and social realm that he has long sought. However, Alice phones the house during the dinner party and asks to speak with George. She tells him that she is at the bus station and that if he does not come to get her, she will come to where he is and expose him. Visibly shaken, he announces to the families that his mother is ill and that he must leave, but promises Angela that he will return. The next morning, George and Alice drive to City Hall to get married but they find it closed for Labor Day. George is relieved. Remembering the story Angela had told him about the drowned couple, and knowing that Alice can't swim, George suggests spending the day at the nearby lake; Alice unsuspectingly agrees.\n\nWhen they get to the lake, George pulls the car's choke to feign it being out of gas in order to hide the car in the woods. He acts nervously when he rents a boat from a man who seems to deduce that George gave him a false name; the man's suspicions are aroused more when George asks him whether any other boaters are on the lake (none are). While they are out on the lake, Alice confesses her dreams about their happy future together with their child. As George apparently takes pity on her, Alice tries to stand up in the boat, causing it to capsize, and Alice drowns.\n\nGeorge escapes, swims to shore, suspiciously confronts campers on his way back to the car, and eventually drives to the Vickers' lodge. There, he tries to relax, but is increasingly tense. He says nothing to anyone about having been on the lake or about what happened there. Meanwhile, Alice's body is discovered and her death is treated as a murder almost from the first moment, while an abundant amount of evidence and witness reports stack up against George. Just as Angela's father approves Angela's marriage to him, George is arrested and charged with Alice's murder. George's furtive actions before and after Alice's death condemn him. His denials are futile, and he is found guilty of murder and sentenced to death in the electric chair. Near the end, he agrees when the priest suggests that, although he did not kill Alice, he did not act to save her because he was thinking of Angela. The priest then states that, in his heart, it was murder.\n\nLater, Angela visits George in prison, saying that she will always love him, and George slowly marches toward his execution.\n\nIn a November 14, 1949 letter from the Production Code Administration, Joseph I. Breen pointed out an issue regarding the dialogue between Alice and her doctor. Breen cautioned against direct references to abortion, specifically the line in the script in which Alice says, \"Doctor, you've got to help me.\" In the finished film, the line became, \"Somebody's got to help me\", and while abortion is possibly implied, the film does not include any actual mention of it.\n\nThe film earned an estimated $3.5 million at the US and Canadian box office, and earned critical acclaim in 1951.\n\nUpon seeing the film, Charlie Chaplin called it \"the greatest movie ever made about America\".\n\nThe film's acclaim did not completely hold up over time. Reappraisals of the film find that much of what was exciting about the film in 1951 is not as potent in the 21st century. Critics cite the soporific pace, the exaggerated melodrama, and the outdated social commentary as qualities present in \"A Place in the Sun\" that are not present in the great films of the era, such as those by Alfred Hitchcock and Elia Kazan, although the performances by Clift, Taylor, and Winters continue to receive praise.\n\nStill, many consider the film to be a classic. It was listed at #92 in American Film Institute's 1998 list 100 Years...100 Movies, and #53 in 100 Years...100 Passions in 2002, while the film holds a strong 75% rating on Rotten Tomatoes. In 2013, the British Film Institute re-released the picture across the United Kingdom because of its significant merit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300168", "title": "David Lindley (physicist)", "text": "David Lindley (physicist)\n\nDavid Lindley (born 1956) is a theoretical physicist and author. He holds a B.A. in theoretical physics from Cambridge University (1975 – 1978) and a PhD in astrophysics from the University of Sussex (1978 – 1981). Then he was a postdoctoral researcher at Cambridge University. From 1983 to 1986, he was a Research Fellow in the Theoretical Astrophysics Group at the Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory. He then served as Technical Editor and Writer with the Central Design Group for the Superconducting Supercollider at the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory in Berkeley, California. He was an Associate Editor at \"Nature\" (1987 – 1993), a Senior Editor of \"Science\" (1994 – 1995), and an Associate Editor of \"Science News\" (1996 – 2000). Since 2000, he is a freelance science writer and consultant.\n\nLindley is known for writing entertaining scientific texts that show not only great knowledge of physics, but also a wit and understanding of what the layman can grasp. Most of his books explain the scientific theories through the use of a scientist's biography or an historical account of disagreement amongst scientists.\n\nIn \"The End of Physics\", Lindley challenged the assumption that string theorists might achieve a unified theory. He contended that particle physics was in danger of becoming a branch of aesthetics, since these theories could be validated only by subjective criteria, such as elegance and beauty, rather than through experimentation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300173", "title": "Ambergate", "text": "Ambergate\n\nAmbergate is a village in Derbyshire, England, situated where the River Amber joins the River Derwent, and where the A610 road from Ripley and Nottingham joins the A6 that runs along the Derwent valley between Derby to the south and Matlock to the north. Sawmills and Ridgeway are neighbouring hamlets, and Alderwasley, Heage, Nether Heage and Crich are other significant neighbouring settlements. The village forms part of the Heage and Ambergate ward of Ripley Town Council with a population of 5,013 at the 2011 Census. Ambergate is within the Derwent Valley Mills UNESCO World Heritage site, and has historical connections with George Stephenson; Ambergate is notable for its railway heritage and telephone exchange. Ambergate has an active community life, particularly centred on the school, pubs, churches, sports clubs; and annual village carnival which is relatively large and consistent locally, with popular associated events in carnival week and throughout the year. The carnival is organised by a voluntary committee. Shining Cliff woods, Thacker's woods and Crich Chase border the village.\n\nIt is about south of Matlock at the junction of the A6 trunk road and the A610 to Ripley. A mile east of Ambergate is Heage with its recently restored 18th-century windmill.\n\nUntil the early nineteenth century it was known as Toadmoor, from the Derbyshire dialect \"t'owd moor\" (the old moor) with no more than a few artisans' cottages. The southerly half of the present village is still shown as such on the Ordnance Survey's maps. The name Amber Gate was originally applied to the tollgate for the Nottingham turnpike, but adopted by the North Midland Railway for Ambergate railway station which is located on the Derby-Matlock Derwent Valley Line.\n\nThe turnpike to Matlock was opened in 1818. Until then the main road from Belper northwards had been through Wirksworth and such traffic as there was, would have been mainly cotton from Arkwright's Mill at Cromford. However, the Cromford Canal, opened in 1794, also passes the village. In 1818 the turnpike to Nottingham was opened with a toll house at the junction.\n\nThe canal towpath can be followed from here to Cromford Wharf, passing High Peak Junction, which is the start of the High Peak Trail). This section is listed as a Biological Site of Special Scientific Interest (SSSI), and also forms part of the Derwent Valley Heritage Way.\n\nIn 1840 the North Midland Railway opened with a station at 'Amber Gate' which brought trade for 'omnibus and posting conveyance' to Matlock, which was becoming a fashionable spa town. By 1867 there was a through line from London St.Pancras to Manchester, as well as to Leeds. Ambergate became an important interchange and, in 1876, Francis Hurt built the 'Hurt Arms' to replace the former 'Thatched House Tavern and Posting House' which the Midland Railway had converted into three cottages (now Midland Place). The main railway line runs through the elliptical Toadmoor Tunnel designed by George Stephenson.\n\nIn 1791 Benjamin Outram and Samuel Beresford had built kilns at nearby Bullbridge to process limestone from their quarry at Crich. George Stephenson had discovered deposits of coal at Clay Cross and realised that burning lime would provide a use for the slack which otherwise would go to waste. He leased Cliff Quarry at Crich, and built eight limekilns beside the railway. Within a year they had grown to twenty. They were connected by another wagonway known as \"The Steep\", a self-acting incline at a slope of 1 in 5.\n\nBy 1851 the tiny hamlet had grown to a population of 206. In 1876 Richard Johnson and Nephew opened the wireworks by the river. In 1931 the population had reached 901, rising to 1,794 in 1951.\n\nThe quarry and the wagonway closed in 1957 but the limeworks carried on until 1965 and the passage of the Clean Air Act. The kilns were demolished the following year to build a storage facility and processing plant for natural gas.\n\nIn 1966 the first fully operational electronic telephone exchange in Europe opened in Ambergate. This was also the first small to medium electronic exchange in the world and the first of many TXE2 type exchanges.\n\nAmbergate has two pubs: The Hurt Arms on the A6 and The Excavator on the A610 at Bucklands Hollow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300174", "title": "Revere Beach", "text": "Revere Beach\n\nRevere Beach is a public beach in Revere, Massachusetts, located about north of downtown Boston. The beach is over long. In 1875, a rail link was constructed to the beach, leading to its increasing popularity as a summer recreation area, and in 1896, it became the first public beach in the United States. It is still easily accessible by the MBTA Blue Line from Boston, and can accommodate as many as one million visitors in a weekend during its annual sand sculpture competition.\n\nIn 1875, the Boston, Revere Beach & Lynn Railroad, known as the \"Narrow Gauge\", came to Revere Beach, making it easily accessible to visitors from Boston and elsewhere. Various beach-related and recreational buildings sprang up along the beach itself, which was constrained by the nearness of the railroad to the high tide mark.\n\nIn 1896, the Metropolitan Park Commission (now part of the Massachusetts Department of Conservation and Recreation) assumed control over the beach. Following the design of landscape architect Charles Eliot, the railroad tracks were moved from the beach itself to the alignment now used by the MBTA Blue Line, and more than 100 structures were removed from the beach. On July 12, 1896, Revere Beach was opened as the first public beach in the nation. An estimated 45,000 people showed up on opening day. Only a few weeks later, tens of thousands more fled to the beach to escape the heat wave of 1896.\nIn the following decades, Revere Beach developed many attractions, including restaurants, dance halls and ballrooms, roller skating rinks, bowling alleys, and roller coasters. Three roller coasters were particularly well-known: the Cyclone, a wooden roller coaster that was the tallest roller coaster ever built at the time of its construction in 1925; the Lightning, another wooden roller coaster; and the Derby Racer, a racing roller coaster. All have since been torn down.\n\nOn the night of August 8, 1920, a riot broke out in Revere Beach when a police officer arrested a United States Navy sailor on the charge of drunkenness. Sailors who were on leave for the weekends saw what happened and attempted to wrestle control of their comrade from a police officer, and the riot ensued. United States Marines and a few United States Army soldiers joined the sailors and surrounded the police station in attempt to free their drunken comrade. Numbering to about 400, mobs of servicemen pelted the station with rocks and fired stolen shooting-gallery weapons at it. Request for assistance was summoned to Federal troops from Fort Banks and the Boston Navy Yard, and the Chelsea Police Department.\n\nA detachment of 200 Army soldiers from Fort Banks arrived with fixed bayonets and assisted police in clearing the beach. The Navy gave orders to its master-at-arms personnel that every sailor in Revere was to be arrested. More than 100 had been placed under arrest and by August 9, military and police authorities finally kept the disorder under control. Many injuries inflicted upon policemen and civilians as well as a mob of five sailors were minor, mostly from flying stones when the mob hurled objects at the police station. The windows were smashed and much of the furniture in the station was broken.\n\nThe popularity of Revere Beach began to decline in the 1950s as the facilities at the beach deteriorated. In February 1978, a large blizzard destroyed many of the remaining structures, the sidewalks, and the sea wall.\n\nAfter a significant revitalization effort by city of Revere and the state of Massachusetts, the beach reopened in May 1992. On the weekend of July 19, 1996, Revere commemorated the centennial of the first opening of Revere Beach with a three-day celebration, and on May 27, 2003, Revere Beach was designated a National Historic Landmark. In 2007, Revere Beach Boulevard was redesigned with new landscaping and sidewalks, and improved parking.\nThe New England Sand Sculpting Festival has taken place at Revere Beach each July since 2004. During the festival, an area of the beach is fenced off, creating a temporary art gallery for visitors. Event organizers have proclaimed that the festival is the largest sand-sculpting contest in New England. A total of $15,000 in prize money was available for the 2010 event. The annual contest draws approximately one million visitors each year.\n\nStarting with the passage of the BEACH Act in 2000, a concentrated effort has been made to improve the water quality of Revere Beach and other beaches in Massachusetts. This includes a public website with water quality results and notifications of beach closures due to waterborne pathogens.\n\nRevere Beach undergoes routine testing for Enterococcus, a pathogen indicating bacteria responsible for illnesses as slight as sore throat to meningitis, gastroenteritis, and encephalitis. The water is tested on a weekly basis at four different sites throughout the summer, from June to August. These sites are Oak Island, Revere Beach Bathhouse (state police station), Beach Street, and Point of Pines. This data is collected by the Massachusetts Water Resources Authority.\n\nPiping plovers, an endangered species of bird, are known to build their nests along Revere Beach in the Spring. During the birds' nesting season, string and fence enclosures are constructed to protect the birds and their eggs, the latter of which are so small as to blend in with the sand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300177", "title": "INS Khukri (F149)", "text": "INS Khukri (F149)\n\nINS \"Khukri\" was a British Type 14 (\"Blackwood\"-class) frigate of the Indian Navy. She was sunk off the coast of Diu, Gujarat, India by the Pakistan Navy submarine on 9 December 1971 during the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971. This was the first warship sunk in action by a submarine since the Korean War. It remains the post-Independence Indian navy's only warship to be lost in war to date.\n\nAfter the beginning of hostilities on 3 December 1971, Indian Naval radio detection equipment identified a submarine lurking about south-west of Diu harbour. The 14th Frigate Squadron of the Western Fleet was dispatched to destroy the submarine. It normally consisted five ships \"Khukri\", , \"Kalveti, Krishna\" and \"Kuthar,\" but at the time of the incident \"Kuthar\"s boiler room was being repaired in Bombay. One reason that may have prompted the decision to deploy two obsolete \"Blackwood\"-class frigates against a modern \"Daphne\"-class submarine was that the Indian Navy lacked sufficient numbers of anti-submarine aircraft.\n\nIn the early hours of 9 December, \"Hangor\" picked up two sonar contacts in the area. The sonar and radar transmissions identified them as warships but \"Hangor\" failed to intercept them and lost contact when the range increased. \n\nThe submarine sighted the squadron on the evening of 9 December. \"Khukri\" was still not aware of the submarine's presence and continued slowly on a steady course because she was testing an improved version of the 170/174 sonar, which required a slow speed to increase detection, despite the fact that moving on slow speed was against Indian anti-submarine doctrine. At 19:57 \"Hangor\" fired a homing torpedo on a sonar approach at \"Kirpan\". The torpedo failed to explode and was detected by \"Kirpan\" which turned away and fired anti-submarine mortars. \"Khukri\" increased its speed and turned towards the submarine, which then fired a second torpedo directed at \"Khukri\". The torpedo struck \"Khukri\" and exploded under its oil tanks. According to the Pakistani submarine captain, Commander Ahmed Tasnim, the ship sank within two minutes. Other sources claim that \"Khukri\" was struck by three torpedoes before going down.\n\nAfter a few minutes, \"Kirpan\" turned back to attack \"Hangor\" with depth charges, as her anti-submarine mortars had broken down. \"Hangor\" then fired another torpedo at \"Kirpan\" before turning away. \"Hangor\" patrolled the region for the next four days before returning safely to her berth.\n\nTo date, \"Khukri\" is the only ship lost in combat in the history of the Indian Navy. 18 officers and 176 sailors were lost in the sinking. The captain, Mahendra Nath Mulla, was among the casulties. He has remained so far the only Indian captain to go down with a vessel. He was posthumously awarded India's second-highest military honour, the Maha Vir Chakra.\n\nThere is a memorial to the dead sailors in Diu. The memorial consists of a scale model of \"Khukri\" encased in a glass house, placed atop a hillock facing the sea. The memorial was inaugurated by Vice Admiral Madhvendra Singh as the flag officer commanding-in-chief.\n\nResponsibility for errors by Indian naval officers related to the sinking has caused some controversy. The naval officer who led the inquiry into the sinking, Benoy Bhushan, has claimed that India's official naval history invented fictional accounts to cover up bungling and a surviving sailor from the frigate, Chanchal Singh Gill, has called for an investigation and withdrawal of gallantry awards to negligent officers in the squadron.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300180", "title": "Air Regional", "text": "Air Regional\n\nAir Regional was an airline based in Jakarta], Indonesia. It operated Domestic and International Air Charter Services in the Papua region, with principal bases in the year of 2018 focussing at Sorong Airport (SOQ) serving the West Central Region and Nabire Airport (NBX) to handle the East Central Region.\n\nThe Airline was established on 13 August 2001, and began operations under Air Regional AOC 135 # 027 on 16 October 2002. It was founded and is owned by Captain Pinky Firmansyah, President and Chief Executive Officer of the company. It held 50 employees as of March 2007. Captain Pinky Firmansyah is a Double-Licences Captain Pilot, Flying Jets Airplanes, Turboprop Airplanes and Helicopters.\n\n\nThe Air Regional fleet includes the following aircraft as of March 2007:\n\nAir Regional will include following aircraft/s in its additional fleet plan (as of December 2018):\n"}
{"id": "2300183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300183", "title": "Sidamo language", "text": "Sidamo language\n\nSidaama or Sidaamu Afoo is an Afro-Asiatic language, belonging to the Highland East Cushitic branch of the Cushitic family. It is spoken in parts of southern Ethiopia by the Sidama people, particularly in the densely populated Sidama Zone. Sidaamu Afoo is the ethnic autonym for the language, while Sidaminya is its name in Amharic. Although it is not known to have any specific dialects, it shares over 64% lexical similarity with Alaba-K'abeena, 62% with Kambaata, and 53% with Hadiyya, all of which are other languages spoken in southwestern Ethiopia. The word order is typically SOV. Sidaama has over 100,000 L2 speakers. The literacy rate for L1 speakers is 1%-5%, while for L2 speakers it is 20%. In terms of its writing, Sidaama used an Ethiopic script up until 1993, from which point forward it has used a Latin script.\n\nThe term \"Sidamo\" has also been used by some authors to refer to larger groupings of East Cushitic and even Omotic languages. The languages within this Sidamo grouping contain similar, alternating phonological features. The results from a research study conducted in 1968-1969 concerning mutual intelligibility between different Sidamo languages suggest that Sidaama is more closely related to the Gedeo language, which it shares a border with to the south, than other Sidamo languages. According to the \"Ethnologue\", the two languages share a lexical similarity of 60%. Sidaama vocabulary has been influenced by Oromo vocabulary.\n\nIn Sidaama, not all noun phrases have nouns. This can occur when it is so obvious what kind of thing the referent of the noun phrase is, that it is unnecessary for the speaker to mention it. Sidaama has two types of noun phrases without nouns. One type is made up only of an adjective or a numeral, where the adjective or the numeral agrees in case, number, and gender with the referent of a noun phrase. This is shown in the examples below:\n\nThe other type of noun phrase without a noun is formed with a noun-phrase clitic, or . This starts with \"t\" () or \"h\" (). This is thought to originate from the Afro-Asiatic demonstrative containing \"t\" () or \"k\" (). The Sidaama appears in various forms. Which form is used then depends on the gender of the referent of the noun phrase, and the syntactic role or case of the noun phrase. When a noun phrase without a noun is formed with an , both the speaker and the listener know its referent. In this case, the attaches to the end of a genitive noun phrase or relative clause to form a noun phrase without a noun. This is shown in the examples below:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300186", "title": "WNDY-TV", "text": "WNDY-TV\n\nWNDY-TV, virtual channel 23 (VHF digital channel 9), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station serving Indianapolis, Indiana, United States that is licensed to Marion. The station is owned by Circle City Broadcasting, as part of a duopoly with Indianapolis-licensed CW affiliate WISH-TV (channel 8); it is also sister to Indianapolis-licensed low-powered, Class A getTV affiliate WIIH-CD (channel 17). The three stations share studios on North Meridian Street (at the north end of the Television Row section) on the near north side of Indianapolis and transmitter facilities on Walnut Drive in the Augusta section of the city's northwest side (near Meridian Hills). There is no separate website for WNDY-TV; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WISH-TV.\n\nOn cable, WNDY is available on Comcast Xfinity, Charter Spectrum and AT&T U-verse channel 10.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on November 1, 1987 as WMCC. Founded by G. J. Robinson, it originally operated as an independent station; it ran mostly paid programming, but slowly added classic sitcoms, cartoons and older movies. The station's original studios and transmitter were located on East 246th Street/State Road 213 in White River Township. WMCC continued to acquire more recent sitcoms, and added some talk and reality shows during the early 1990s. The station would later relocate its operations to a new studio facility on West 16th Street in Indianapolis.\n\nOn December 7, 1994, WMCC was sold for $10 million to Wabash Valley Broadcasting (making it a sister station to WTHI AM-FM-TV in Terre Haute and two Florida television stations), a company owned by the Hulman-George family, the longtime owners of Indianapolis Motor Speedway; the station's license was held by IMS Broadcasting, LLC during this time. The new owners changed channel 23's call letters to WNDY-TV on January 9, 1995 and rebranded the station \"INDY-TV\"; the station also began using a checkered flag as part of its logo – a nod to the Speedway and its signature Indianapolis 500 race, which covered the left diagonal line of the \"W\" in the calls. WNDY became a charter affiliate of The WB when the network launched two days later; the station eventually amended its branding to \"INDY-TV WB 23\" in reflection of the affiliation.\n\nThe Hulman-George family decided to sell WNDY-TV in 1997. Spartan Communications – which planned on turning over WNDY's operations to Fox affiliate WXIN (channel 59) under a local marketing agreement with Tribune Broadcasting – agreed to acquire the station in August 1997, only to back out of the deal an hour before it was scheduled to be finalized on October 3. Paxson Communications then made a $28.4 million offer for WNDY, before it was outbid by the Paramount Stations Group (now CBS Television Stations), which purchased the station for $35 million in October 1997; Paramount decided to buy the station after the Sinclair Broadcast Group signed an agreement to switch its UPN affiliates and independent stations to The WB, with UPN-affiliated WTTV (channel 4) and its Kokomo satellite WTTK (channel 29) slated to switch.\n\nWNDY-TV began carrying UPN programming on January 22, 1998; initially, the station aired the network's programming on Thursdays, Fridays, and Saturdays, as it remained a WB affiliate. The move followed the expiration of WTTV's contract with UPN a week earlier. The sale to Paramount was finalized on February 4, 1998. Though channel 23's contract with The WB was originally slated to expire in January 1999, WB programming moved to WTTV on April 6, 1998; at that time, WNDY became a UPN owned-and-operated station and changed its branding to \"UPN 23\". With the switch, the station became the first O&O of a major commercial broadcast network in the Indianapolis market.\n\nThe station adopted the \"UPN Indiana\" branding in September 2003, dropping on-air references to its channel 23 allocation; this was done partly due to the fact that most cable providers in the Indianapolis market carry WNDY on channel 10. A few weeks before the start of the 2003-04 television season, WNDY began displaying a countdown of days until it rebranded as \"UPN Indy\". It was reported that the \"UPN Indy\" moniker was ditched in favor of \"UPN Indiana\" at the last minute to appeal to the larger audience across the state rather than just those living in the Indianapolis area, along with the fact that the Indianapolis Motor Speedway had stopped allowing the station to use the trademarked word \"Indy\". On February 10, 2005, Paramount sold WNDY and Columbus sister station WWHO to the LIN TV Corporation, owners of then-CBS affiliate WISH-TV (channel 8) and 24-hour weather service WIIH-CA (channel 17, now a fill-in translator for WISH), for $85 million; the station rebranded as \"WNDY UPN 23\" that July.\n\nWNDY had previously been used as the calls for local radio station WBRI (1500 AM), and fictionally as the call sign of the television station in the 1990-91 CBS series \"WIOU\" (which predated channel 23's adoption of the WNDY calls by about four years) and for a fictional Chicago radio station in the 1992 Dolly Parton film \"Straight Talk\".\n\nOn January 24, 2006, CBS Corporation (which acquired UPN in its split from Viacom one month earlier) and the Warner Bros. Entertainment unit of Time Warner announced that they would dissolve UPN and The WB that September in favor of creating The CW, a new \"fifth\" network that would combine the programming from its respective predecessors. One month later on February 22, News Corporation announced the launch of another new network called MyNetworkTV; originally operated by its Fox Television Stations subsidiary and its Twentieth Television syndication division, it was designed to give UPN and WB affiliates that would not affiliate with The CW another option besides becoming independent stations. WTTV/WTTK was named as Indianapolis's CW outlet through an affiliation deal with that station's owner Tribune Broadcasting that covered 16 of the company's 19 WB stations at that time; WNDY was named as the market's MyNetworkTV affiliate in a four-station deal with LIN on April 26, 2006. Shortly before becoming a charter affiliate when MyNetworkTV launched on September 5, the station accordingly rebranded as \"My INDY TV\".\n\nOn May 18, 2007, LIN TV announced that it was exploring strategic alternatives that could have resulted in the sale of the company. On October 2, 2008, cable provider Bright House Networks pulled WISH-TV, WNDY and WIIH-CA from its Indianapolis area system as it and LIN had been unable to reach a new agreement for the stations regarding compensation for their carriage. WNDY and WISH were restored by Bright House as part of an agreement that was reached 20 days later on October 26.\n\nOn March 21, 2014, Media General announced that it would merge with LIN Media in a $1.6 billion deal. The merger was completed on December 19.\n\nOn September 8, 2015, Media General announced that it would acquire the Des Moines, Iowa-based Meredith Corporation for $2.4 billion with the intention to name the combined group Meredith Media General if the sale were finalized. However, on September 28, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Broadcasting Group made an unsolicited cash-and-stock merger offer for Media General, originally valued at $14.50 per share. On November 16, following opposition to the merger with Meredith by minority shareholders Oppenheimer Holdings and Starboard Capital (primarily because Meredith's magazine properties were included in the deal, which would have re-entered Media General into publishing after it sold its newspapers to BH Media in 2012 to reduce debt) and the rejection of Nexstar's initial offer by company management, Media General agreed to enter into negotiations with Nexstar on a suitable counter deal, while the Meredith merger proposal remained active; the two eventually concluded negotiations on January 6, 2016, reaching a merger agreement for valued at $17.14 per share (an evaluation of $4.6 billion, plus the assumption of $2.3 billion debt).\n\nOn January 27, Meredith formally broke off the proposed merger with Media General and accepted the termination fee of $60 million previously negotiated under the original merger proposal; Media General subsequently signed an agreement to be acquired by Nexstar, in exchange for giving Meredith right of first refusal to acquire any broadcast or digital properties that may be divested (a clause that Meredith did not exercise). Because the FCC required Media General and Nexstar to divest stations in markets where both groups had television properties, the WISH-WNDY duopoly gained new sister stations in nearby markets within Indiana: the Evansville virtual duopoly of ABC affiliate WEHT and fellow CW affiliate WTVW, and the Terre Haute virtual duopoly of NBC affiliate WTWO and ABC affiliate WAWV-TV. CBS affiliate WANE-TV in Fort Wayne was the only existing sister station of WISH and WNDY that became part of the combined group, as Media General and Nexstar each sold certain Indiana stations they already owned (Nexstar's Fox affiliate WFFT-TV in Fort Wayne and Media General's two other Indiana-based CBS affiliates, WTHI-TV in Terre Haute and WLFI-TV in Lafayette) to Heartland Media to alleviate conflicts with FCC ownership rules. The transaction was approved by the FCC on January 11, 2017; the sale was completed on January 17, at which point the existing Nexstar stations and the former Media General outlets that neither group had to sell in order to rectify ownership conflicts in certain markets became part of the renamed Nexstar Media Group.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Nexstar announced it would acquire the assets of Chicago-based Tribune Media—which has owned Fox affiliate WXIN (channel 59) since July 1996 and CBS affiliate WTTV since July 2002—for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. Nexstar is precluded from acquiring WXIN and WTTV/WTTK directly or indirectly, as FCC regulations prohibit common ownership of more than two stations in the same media market, or two or more of the four highest-rated stations in the market. (Furthermore, any attempt by Nexstar to assume the operations of WXIN and WTTV/WTTK through local marketing or shared services agreements may be subject to regulatory hurdles that could delay completion of the FCC and Justice Department's review and approval process for the acquisition.) As such, Nexstar was required to sell two of the stations (including one ranking in the top four in ratings; WTTV and WTTK counting as one station) to a separate, unrelated company to address the ownership conflict, potentially creating two new duopolies. On April 8, 2019, it was announced that Circle City Broadcasting (owned by DuJuan McCoy of Indianapolis, the principal owner of Bayou City Broadcasting, which acquired WEVV-TV in 2014), would acquire WISH and WNDY for $42.5 million; the sale was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWNDY formerly carried TheCoolTV on its second digital subchannel from 2010 to 2013, when LIN Media terminated its affiliation agreement with the music video network.\n\nIn October 2002, WNDY began transmitting a digital signal on UHF channel 32. WNDY-TV shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 23, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 32. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 23. The station's former analog-era channel 23 allocation was then used by Muncie PBS member station WIPB (channel 49) for its post-transition digital signal.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast by WNDY include \"The Doctors\", \"Hot Bench\" and \"The Real\". WNDY carried the Saturday edition of \"CBS This Morning\", with the last broadcast on December 27, 2014, and the weekend editions of the \"CBS Evening News\" and the second half-hour of \"Face the Nation\" both ending on December 28, 2014, in lieu of WISH-TV (in the case of the former two programs, WISH declined to air them in order to run expanded Saturday morning and weekend 6:00 p.m. newscasts). Occasionally as time permitted, WNDY aired other CBS programs that WISH-TV was unable to air due to extended breaking news or severe weather coverage, or other special programming, including certain NCAA Men's Basketball Championship games when more than one team of local interest is playing. As a result of WISH-TV losing the CBS affiliation, WNDY also stopped airing select CBS programs after December 28, 2014 (WTTV cleared the entire CBS schedule upon joining the network on January 1, 2015).\n\nThe Hoosier Lottery awarded WNDY the rights to televise its daily drawings the following year, assuming the contract from WTTV, which had been airing the drawings since 1989; WTTV would regain the broadcast contact to the drawings in 1999, before losing them again when the lottery discontinued the televised draws in 2001.\n\nIn 1995, the Indiana High School Athletic Association awarded WNDY the broadcast contract to air the statewide boys and girls high school basketball tournament games; after the station terminated its contract with the IHSAA in August 1999 due to declining overall interest in the tournament, the organization filed a breach of contract lawsuit against WNDY in March 2000, seeking $3.28 million in damages.\n\nWNDY occasionally aired Indianapolis Colts games that are televised on ESPN's \"Monday Night Football\", as NFL regulations require games that air on one of the league's cable partners to be simulcast on a broadcast television station in each participating team's home market (the station had been carrying ESPN's Colts game telecasts since it held rights to the \"Sunday Night Football\" package, which it lost to NBC in 2006, when ESPN took over rights to \"Monday Night Football\"). One notable exception to this occurred in October 2013, when WTHR (channel 13) carried an ESPN-televised Monday night game involving the Colts. The station also airs selected Ball State University men's basketball games as well as Mid-American Conference college football from ESPN Plus.\n\nIn March 2015, Media General announced that WISH and WNDY would become part of the Chicago Cubs and White Sox broadcast television networks and carry many of the games the teams will broadcast locally in Chicago among WLS-TV, WGN-TV and WPWR-TV, though not those broadcast by NBC Sports Chicago. WISH will have a Sunday-only schedule of games due to the contractual restrictions of their CW affiliation, with WNDY airing the remainder of the weekday schedule of games and a few Sundays. The deal for carriage of the games in Indianapolis was required after Tribune Media discontinued airing Chicago area sports over WGN America at the end of 2014. In October 2015, this agreement was expanded to include select Chicago Blackhawks hockey games as well.\n\nIn early 1996, NBC affiliate WTHR entered into a news share agreement with WNDY to produce a nightly half-hour primetime newscast at 10 p.m. for the station, titled \"Eyewitness News at 10:00 on Indy TV\" (the title later being revised slightly to correspond with WNDY's branding changes to \"UPN 23\" in 1998 and \"UPN Indiana\" in 2002), which debuted on March 16 of that year. The program originally competed against two longer-established 10 p.m. newscasts: WXIN's then 35-minute in-house newscast and another outsourced newscast on WTTV that was produced by ABC affiliate WRTV (channel 6) (the latter newscast was cancelled in December 2002, after WXIN owner Tribune Broadcasting acquired WTTV).\n\nWTHR terminated the news share agreement after WNDY was acquired by LIN TV; WISH-TV assumed production responsibilities for the newscast on February 28, 2005, relaunching the program as \"24-Hour News 8 at 10:00 on UPN Indiana\" (as was the case under the WTHR news share agreement, the program's title was later revised slightly to correspond with WNDY's branding changes to \"WNDY UPN\" in September 2005 and then \"My INDY TV\" upon the station's switch to MyNetworkTV in September 2006). The WNDY newscast briefly gained another competitor on that date when WTHR moved the \"Eyewitness News at 10:00\" broadcast to sister station WALV-CD (channel 46); that program was subsequently moved to Pax TV owned-and-operated station WIPX-TV (channel 63, now an Ion Television O&O) on April 13, 2005, before being cancelled two months later on June 30. On September 8, 2008, WISH-TV became the second television station in the state of Indiana and the Indianapolis market to begin broadcasting its local newscasts in high definition; the WNDY newscast was included in the upgrade.\n\nOn January 5, 2009, WISH-TV began producing an hour-long extension of its weekday morning newscast for WNDY, running from 7 to 8 a.m. The station also began producing a weekly interview program produced by WISH, \"One on One with Mike Ahern\", which was hosted by the former WISH-TV anchor; airing Thursdays at 10:30 p.m. (with a rebroadcast Saturdays at 7 p.m.), the program was cancelled in mid-2013. In 2012, the Sunday edition of the 10 p.m. newscast was expanded to one hour; the Monday through Saturday editions would follow suit on January 6, 2014, with the final 15 minutes of the program being padded out by a sports highlight program titled \"Sports Zone Tonight\".\n\nOn January 1, 2015, WISH ceased producing newscasts for WNDY, as it moved the 7 a.m. and 10 p.m. newscasts to channel 8 when it lost CBS programming and became the market's CW affiliate on that date. However, WNDY airs an encore broadcast of \"Indy Style\" at 1 p.m. on weekdays.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300188", "title": "Sam Simon", "text": "Sam Simon\n\nSamuel Michael Simon (June 6, 1955 – March 8, 2015) was an American director, producer, writer, animal rights activist and philanthropist, who co-developed the television series \"The Simpsons\".\n\nWhile at Stanford University, Simon worked as a newspaper cartoonist and after graduating became a storyboard artist at Filmation Studios. Simon submitted a spec script for the sitcom \"Taxi\", which was produced, and he later became the series' showrunner. Over the next few years, Simon wrote and produced for \"Cheers\", \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" and other programs, as well as writing the 1991 film \"The Super\".\n\nIn 1989, Simon developed the animated sitcom \"The Simpsons \"with Matt Groening and James L. Brooks. Simon assembled the show's first writing team, co-wrote eight episodes and has been credited with \"developing [the show's] sensibility\". Simon's relationship with Groening was strained and he left the show in 1993, negotiating a pay-off which saw him receive tens of millions of dollars from the show's revenue each year. The following year Simon co-created \"The George Carlin Show\", before later working as a director on shows such as \"The Drew Carey Show\". Simon won nine Primetime Emmy Awards for his television work.\n\nSimon turned to fields outside television in his later years. He regularly appeared on Howard Stern's radio shows, managed boxer Lamon Brewster and helped guide him to the World Boxing Organization Heavyweight Championship in 2004, and was a regular poker player and six-time in the money finisher at the World Series of Poker. Simon founded the Sam Simon Foundation, which consists of a mobile veterinary clinic that goes into low-income neighborhoods offering free surgeries for cats and dogs several days per week, as well as a program that rescues and trains shelter dogs. He also funded the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society vessel the \"MY Sam Simon\". Simon was engaged at the time of his death, having been previously twice married, including to the actress Jennifer Tilly. Following a profile of Simon on \"60 Minutes\" in 2007, CBS writer Daniel Schorn wrote in an online article that Simon was \"perhaps the Renaissance man of the baffling, uncertain age we live in.\"\n\nSimon was diagnosed with terminal colorectal cancer in 2012 and given only three to six months to live. Simon died on March 8, 2015. He bequeathed his $100 million estate to various charities which he actively supported during his lifetime.\n\nSamuel Michael Simon was born on June 6, 1955 in Los Angeles, California, United States. He grew up in Beverly Hills and Malibu. Simon's family lived opposite Groucho Marx. Simon's father was a cheap clothing manufacturer and was of Estonian-Jewish heritage. Simon had a childhood which has been described as \"comfortable\" and \"privileged\". Although his parents wanted Simon to become a lawyer, he was interested in art from a young age, appearing on televised local art programs as young as the age of five. He once was told by Walt Disney that he would one day work at his studio.\n\nSimon attended Beverly Hills High School, where he was on the football team and served as a cartoonist for the school newspaper. He was named \"Most Humorous\" and \"Most Talented\" in his senior yearbook. He later attended Stanford University, graduating in 1977. Simon had not wished to attend college, but Stanford persuaded him to apply due to his sufficient grades and proficiency at football; Simon quit the football team after one day. Simon drew comics for The Stanford Daily, a college newspaper, but was denied admission to a drawing class for not being talented enough. As he recalled to the Stanford alumni magazine, he was told, \"You'd be taking the space of a student who has talent.\" Simon majored in psychology, but did not focus on his academics.\n\nWhile still at Stanford, Simon's first job was a newspaper sports cartoonist for \"The San Francisco Chronicle\" and \"The San Francisco Examiner\". After graduating, he worked as a television storyboard artist, and later a writer, at Filmation Studios. There he worked on several animated shows, including \"The New Adventures of Mighty Mouse and Heckle & Jeckle\" and \"Fat Albert and the Cosby Kids\" (1979). Simon recalls Filmation approving of his work because he was \"self-taught and unschooled,\" but Simon felt the majority of what the studio produced was \"awful\". On the suggestion of Filmation producer Lou Scheimer who was impressed by Simon's writing ability, Simon submitted a spec script for the series \"Taxi\" which was produced as \"Out of Commission\" and aired in 1981 during its third season. Simon was hired as a writer, quickly becoming showrunner for its fifth and final season in 1983. Simon next worked as a writer and producer on \"Cheers\" from seasons one to three (1982–1985), writing five episodes: \"Endless Slumper\", \"Battle of the Ex's\", \"Fairytales Can Come True\", \"Cheerio Cheers\" and \"The Bartender's Tale\". Simon created, wrote and produced the short-lived sitcom \"Shaping Up\" in 1984, alongside Ken Estin; the show starred Leslie Nielsen as a gym owner and ran for five episodes on ABC. Simon also wrote and produced for \"Best of the West\" (1981), \"Barney Miller\" (1982) and \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" (1987–1988), and wrote the 1991 film \"The Super\".\n\nSimon co-developed the animated series \"The Simpsons\", which premiered on the Fox network in 1989 and has remained on air ever since. The show is regarded as one of the greatest television series of all time, with \"Time\" magazine naming it the 20th century's best series. The premise for the series originated as a series of short cartoons airing in 1987 as part of \"The Tracey Ullman Show\", on which Simon was a writer and executive producer alongside James L. Brooks, with whom Simon had worked on \"Taxi\". The cartoons were developed into a full series two years later. For \"The Simpsons\", Simon served alongside Matt Groening (who conceived the show and the five main characters) and Brooks as executive producer and showrunner for the show's first (1989–1990) and second (1990–1991) seasons, and was creative supervisor for the first four seasons. He assembled and led the initial team of writers, consisting of John Swartzwelder, Jon Vitti, George Meyer, Jeff Martin, Al Jean, Mike Reiss, Jay Kogen and Wallace Wolodarsky. The cartoonist and writer Mimi Pond, who wrote the first broadcast episode \"Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire\" (1989), has asserted, via third-party hearsay she repeated, that Simon deliberately kept women out of the writing team.\n\nSimon has been credited with \"developing [the show's] sensibility.\" Former \"Simpsons\" director Brad Bird has described him as \"the unsung hero\" of the show, while Vitti has stated to \"leave out Sam Simon\" is to tell \"the managed version\" of \"The Simpsons\" history, because \"he was the guy we wrote for.\" Writer Ken Levine called Simon \"the real creative force behind \"The Simpsons\" ... The tone, the storytelling, the level of humor—that was all developed on Sam's watch.\" Levine says that Simon \"brought a level of honesty to the characters\" and made them \"three-dimensional,\" adding that his \"comedy is all about character, not just a string of gags. In \"The Simpsons\", the characters are motivated by their emotions and their foibles. 'What are they thinking?'—that is Sam's contribution. The stories come from the characters.\" Simon crafted much of the world of Springfield, and designed the models for many of the show's recurring characters, including Mr. Burns, Dr. Hibbert, Chief Wiggum and Eddie and Lou, as well as many of the one-time and guest-star roles, such as Bleeding Gums Murphy. One of his contributions to the show's character development was his proposal that Waylon Smithers should be gay, but that this should never have too much attention drawn to it; Smithers' sexuality became one of the show's longest-running gags. Simon saw \"The Simpsons\" as a chance to solve \"what [he] didn't like about the Saturday-morning cartoon shows [he had] worked on ... [he] wanted all the actors in a room together, not reading their lines separated from each other. \"The Simpsons\" would have been a great radio show. If you just listen to the sound track, it works.\"\n\n\"The Simpsons\" utilized a process of collaborative script re-writing by the show's whole writing staff; this meant the credited writer may not have been responsible for the majority of an episode's content. Nevertheless, Simon was credited with co-writing the season one episodes \"The Telltale Head,\" \"The Crepes of Wrath,\" and the season finale \"Some Enchanted Evening.\" \"Some Enchanted Evening\" was intended to be the show's premiere but was delayed due to substandard animation. Simon adapted Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Raven\" for the third segment of the season two episode \"Treehouse of Horror.\" Groening was nervous about \"The Raven\" because it did not have many gags, and felt it would be \"the worst, most pretentious thing [they had] ever done\" on the show. Nevertheless, the segment has often been praised as one of the best \"Treehouse of Horror\" stories in the show's history. Ryan J. Budke of \"TV Squad\" described the segment as \"one of the most refined \"Simpsons\" pop references ever,\" and knows \"people that consider this the point that they realized \"The Simpsons\" could be both highly hilarious and highly intelligent.\" Simon co-wrote the episode \"Two Cars in Every Garage and Three Eyes on Every Fish\" with Swartzwelder, an episode which Tom Shales of the \"Washington Post\" has described as \"a bull's-eye political satire\". The final episode he co-wrote for season two was \"The Way We Was,\" alongside Jean and Reiss. While Reiss and Jean took over as showrunners, Simon remained on the writing staff for seasons three (1991–1992) and four (1992–1993). For the third season he co-wrote \"Treehouse of Horror II,\" and conceived the story for the Sideshow Bob episode \"Black Widower,\" together with mystery author Thomas Chastain, hoping to construct a full mystery story; Vitti wrote the episode's teleplay. Simon also substantially contributed to the episode \"Stark Raving Dad,\" pitched the episode \"Homer at the Bat,\" and proposed the \"Land of Chocolate\" sequence from \"Burns Verkaufen der Kraftwerk.\" Simon's final writing credit was for the \"Dial 'Z' For Zombies\" segment of \"Treehouse of Horror III.\"\n\nAlthough they initially worked well together, Simon and Groening's relationship became \"very contentious\" according to Groening. Simon never expected the show to be a success, often proclaiming to fellow staff members \"We're thirteen and out\"—meaning that the show would be canceled after the thirteen episodes of the first season. Therefore, he also told the staff that they had creative freedom to do whatever they wanted to make \"The Simpsons\" as good a show as possible, regardless of network or public opinion, because he thought it inevitably would not be renewed; he elaborated in 2009 that \"Really I was saying that to take the pressure off of everyone. I was just saying let's just go out and make 13 episodes that are really good and really funny.\" However, Groening interpreted it as meaning Simon was uncommitted and did not care whether the show was a success or not, as Simon's career would survive, whereas his own would not. In 2001, Groening described Simon as \"brilliantly funny and one of the smartest writers I've ever worked with, although unpleasant and mentally unbalanced.\" According to John Ortved's book \"\", when the show became successful Simon resented the media attention Groening received, particularly the praise for the show's writing; Simon felt that Groening's involvement was limited, and that he should have been the one receiving credit for the show. Simon later spoke well of Groening's influence, particularly on the show's positive tone.\n\nAs well as Groening, Simon was often at odds with Brooks and production company Gracie Films. While working on \"The Simpsons\", he and Brooks had co-created the series \"Sibs\" (1991) and \"Phenom\" (1993) as part of a multi-series deal for ABC. Simon did not want to work on either series, both of which were poorly received and swiftly canceled, which put a strain on the pair's relationship.\n\nSimon left Gracie Films and \"The Simpsons\" in 1993; he commented that he \"wasn't enjoying it anymore,\" wished to pursue other projects, and that of \"any show I've ever worked on, it turns me into a monster. I go crazy. I hate myself.\" Before leaving, he negotiated a deal that saw him receive a share of the show's profits every year, particularly from home media, and an executive producer credit despite not having worked on the show since 1993. The deal means he made over $10 million a year from \"The Simpsons\"; he later told \"Stanford Magazine\" that \"tens of millions\" was a closer figure. Simon commented: \"When I was there I thought I was underpaid. I thought I wasn't getting enough credit for it. Now, I think it's completely the opposite. I get too much credit for it. And the money is ridiculous.\"\n\nIn January 1994, Simon co-created with comedian George Carlin the sitcom \"The George Carlin Show\" for Fox. It aired for 27 episodes before being canceled in December 1995. Simon served as showrunner throughout its run and directed several episodes. Simon persuaded Carlin to do the show after writing it as something which would not be \"typically sitcomy.\" He conceived the show as what Carlin's life would have been like had he never become a comedian; Carlin played a heavy drinking New York taxi driver. Simon commented: \"When I was doing \"The Simpsons\", people couldn't see how smart it was because of the low moments. There's something about this show. People who like it say it's classy. They don't see how vulgar it is.\" Carlin wrote negatively of his relationship with Simon. On his own website, Carlin wrote of the show: \"always check mental health of creative partner beforehand. Loved the actors, loved the crew. Had a great time. Couldn't wait to get the fuck out of there.\" In his final book, the posthumously published \"Last Words\" (2009), Carlin elaborated: \"I had a great time. I never laughed so much, so often, so hard as I did with cast members Alex Rocco, Chris Rich, Tony Starke. There was a very strange, very good sense of humor on that stage ... The biggest problem, though, was that Sam Simon was a fucking horrible person to be around. Very, very funny, extremely bright and brilliant, but an unhappy person who treated other people poorly.\" Simon described himself as \"combative\" and said that most people see him as having a \"bad attitude\".\n\nIn the late 1990s, Simon primarily worked as a director. He directed on the American adaptation of the sitcom \"Men Behaving Badly\" in 1996, the \"Friends\" season three episode \"The One Without the Ski Trip\" in 1997, and several episodes of \"The Norm Show\" (1999) and \"The Michael Richards Show\" (2000). From 1998 to 2003, he served as a consulting producer and director for \"The Drew Carey Show\", and directed the show's series finale. He was also a creative consultant on \"Bless This House\" in 1996.\n\nFrom 1999 to some time in the early 2000s, Simon was President of e-Nexus Studios the once entertainment content arm of ZeniMax Media, Parent Company of video game publisher Bethesda Softworks. After E-Nexus was shut down, Simon became President of the creative group at ZeniMax Productions, another subsidiary of ZeniMax.\n\nAfter leaving \"The Simpsons\" and \"The George Carlin Show\", Simon sought to find a \"life outside television,\" as working in the industry \"made [him] crazy.\" On working in television, Simon concluded: \"In some ways, it's the greatest job in the world. You make a product that's given away, and all it does is make people smile. Nobody gets hurt, there's no damage, and you can get crazy rich.\" Simon retired from full-time television work, although still worked in the media, frequently contributing, as a writer and a participant, to Howard Stern's radio shows. He wrote and directed the one-off radio sitcom \"The Bitter Half\" for Stern's Howard 101 in 2006. Simon had his own show on Radioio. Simon returned to television production work in 2012, serving as a consultant and director on the series \"Anger Management\" for half a day a week.\n\nSimon was a staunch advocate for animal rights and veganism, and described himself as an \"animal lover\". Around the year 2000, he joined People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals (PETA). Their relationship began after Simon asked the staff of \"The Drew Carey Show\" to change a part of an episode which involved greyhound racing, but they refused to do so and that led Simon to donate his fee to the organization. Starting in 2002, he self-funded, at an annual cost of several million dollars, The Sam Simon Foundation, which has a mobile clinic that provides free surgeries for cats and dogs, as well as rescuing and retraining shelter dogs who might otherwise be euthanized. An episode of \"60 Minutes\" broadcast in March 2007 described it as \"the grandest dog shelter in the country, a five star, [] spread in Malibu, perhaps the most desirable real estate on the planet. Here, among the waterfalls and the manicured grounds, The Sam Simon Foundation gives stray and abandoned dogs a new lease on life, literally.\"\nAs Simon explained, the foundation aims to \"rescue dogs\" and \"train them to be service dogs, [to help] people with disabilities,\" primarily the deaf. It also provides free veterinary surgeries to pets belonging to low-income families, and trains dogs to help soldiers returning from combat in Iraq and Afghanistan deal with post-traumatic stress disorder. Simon said the money he used was \"well spent just for the pleasure it gives me.\" The training program has a 20% success rate, because many of the rescued dogs \"have physical and psychological problems\" but the dogs who cannot be trained are put up for adoption. The foundation is non-profit, does not accept public donations, but does receive some federal government funding due to a bill written and passed by Senator Al Franken. In 2011, Simon established and self-funded the Sam Simon Foundation Feeding Families program, a food truck which delivers vegan food to low-income families; the program helps feed some 200 families per week. He donated an undisclosed sum to the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society in 2012 for the purpose of purchasing another vessel for their fleet, the , which was unveiled in December 2012. Simon was also a board member for Save the Children, and hosted the largest annual fundraiser for PETA, who named him an Honorary Director and their Norfolk, Virginia headquarters building after him. Simon has stated that animal rights charities have been his main target for donations, over other causes like human disease and environmental damage, because \"your money can bring success\" with visible results. Simon stated in 2011 that there is \"nothing [which gives him] more pleasure than\" helping others via his charities, and gave away most of his fortune.\n\nSimon was a long time fan of boxing, attending fights with his grandfather, but his interest increased particularly after seeing the 1990 heavyweight championship fight between Evander Holyfield and James \"Buster\" Douglas which he described as \"the most electrifying feeling I'd had in my life.\" He began training and won six out of nine amateur fights; he was also a reserve contestant on the Fox series \"Celebrity Boxing\". Simon was for eight years the manager of heavyweight boxer Lamon Brewster, the now-retired former World Boxing Organization heavyweight champion. He met Brewster in 1997 and began managing him, helping him rise to the top of the WBO rankings. He considers guiding Brewster to his April 2004 victory over Wladimir Klitschko to win the vacant WBO Heavyweight Championship, with Klitschko the heavy favorite, to be amongst the greatest moments of his life; it \"eclipsed everything he had achieved in a glittering 26-year showbiz career.\" Before the Klitschko fight, Simon calculated he had spent several hundred thousand dollars funding Brewster, paying him a large salary on top of match fees as well as letting him stay rent-free at one of his houses, and taking only a 10% cut of the match fees; however, he never intended boxing to be a substantial \"source of revenue\". Simon retired from boxing management soon after Brewster became WBO Heavyweight Champion. \n\nSimon was a regular poker player, and Texas hold 'em in particular. He was introduced to the game as a child through weekly family poker games and casino trips with his grandfather. Simon did not consider himself a serious player until a game at writer David Steinberg's house with several \"scholarly\" players, which encouraged him to study the game and enter numerous tournaments, although he decided not to become professional. He competed at the World Series of Poker (WSOP) each year between 2007 and 2011, finishing in the money in six events. In 2007, at the 6,358-player $10,000 No-Limit Texas Hold'em Main Event, he finished 329th with $39,445. He also finished 16th winning $35,493 at the $1,000 1,048-player No-Limit Hold'em w/Re-Buys in 2007, 41st winning $10,708 at the $1,000 706-player No-Limit Hold'em w/ReBuys in 2008, 53rd winning $10,692 at the $1,000 879-player No-Limit Hold'em w/ReBuys in 2008, 20th winning $24,066 at the $10,000 275-player World Championship Pot-Limit Hold'em in 2009, and 500th winning $23,876 at the $10,000 6,865-player No-Limit Hold'em Championship in 2011. He also won the $300 438-player No-Limit Hold'em Bounty $100,000 Guarantee at the 2009 L.A. Poker Open, winning $22,228. His biggest win in terms of both field size and prize money was the $200 1,082-player No-Limit Hold'em $150,000 Guarantee at the 2010 Winnin O' The Green, where he won $57,308. Simon's private poker games between him and his celebrity friends have been described as \"raucous and very entertaining\". Their reputation led Playboy TV to produce the show \"Sam's Game\", a televised version featuring Simon as host and master of ceremonies of a Las Vegas celebrity Texas Hold 'em match; he produced the show. He had previously appeared on a 2009 episode of \"High Stakes Poker\".\n\nSimon won nine Primetime Emmy Awards and received ten further nominations for his work. For \"The Tracey Ullman Show\" he won the Emmys for Outstanding Variety, Music Or Comedy Series in 1989 and Outstanding Writing In A Variety Or Music Program in 1990. In the former he was nominated again in 1990, for the latter he was also nominated in 1987, 1988 and 1989. He received the Emmy for Outstanding Animated Program (for Programming Less Than One Hour) for \"The Simpsons\" in 1990, 1991, 1995, 1997, 1998, 2000 and 2001 with further nominations in 1990 (for \"Simpsons Roasting on an Open Fire\" which was counted as a separate special), 1992, 1996, 1999 and 2002. He was nominated for Outstanding Comedy Series for \"Taxi\" in 1983 and \"Cheers\" in 1985, Outstanding Writing for a Comedy Series for \"It's Garry Shandling's Show\" in 1988 and Outstanding Variety, Music Or Comedy Special for \"The Best of Tracey Ullman Show\" in 1990. He also won a Peabody Award for \"The Simpsons\" in 1996. In 2013, Simon was awarded the Writers Guild of America Award Animation Writers Caucus lifetime achievement award for his work in animation; the following year the WGA awarded him the Valentine Davies Award for his humanitarian and philanthropic efforts.\n\nSimon was married to actress Jennifer Tilly from 1984 to 1991 and remained friends with her. He married \"Playboy\" Playmate Jami Ferrell in 2000, and the marriage lasted three weeks. Simon was engaged to chef and caterer Jenna Stewart around 2011. He was dating Kate Porter, a make-up artist, from 2012 until his death. Simon became a vegetarian at the age of nineteen and when joining People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals around 2000, he turned to veganism. He had three dogs.\n\nHe lived in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles, in the restored Bailey House, designed by Richard Neutra. After his home was destroyed by a fire in 2007, Simon redesigned it to be environmentally friendly; much of the interior is constructed from recycled materials while solar panels provide virtually its entire power needs. The building has a Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design Gold certificate. He had an extensive art collection; he owned paintings by Thomas Hart Benton, John Singer Sargent and one of the original casts of Auguste Rodin's \"The Thinker\". He also had a sculpture by Robert Graham and works by Alberto Vargas, Gil Elvgren, Ed Ruscha and Richard Estes.\n\nIn late 2012, Simon was diagnosed with terminal colorectal cancer which later metastasized to his other organs, including his liver and kidneys. He had been feeling ill for some time and had earlier been misdiagnosed. He was given between three and six months to live; chemotherapy treatment reduced the size of his tumors over the following six months. He arranged for his fortune to be left to various charitable causes, stating \"The truth is, I have more money than I'm interested in spending. Everyone in my family is taken care of. And I enjoy this.\" Simon died in his Los Angeles home from complications of the disease on March 8, 2015, aged 59. His remains were interred at Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles.\n\nControversy surrounds the management of his trust, and the lack of donations to groups which he supported in his lifetime.\n\n\"The Simpsons\" episode \"Waiting for Duffman\" was dedicated to him.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300205", "title": "INS Rana (D52)", "text": "INS Rana (D52)\n\nINS \"Rana\" is a in active service with the Indian Navy. She was commissioned on 28 June 1982.\n\nShe is a redesigned Soviet guided missile destroyer.\n\nINS \"Rana\" serves in the Eastern Fleet of the Indian Navy. Her home port is Visakhapatnam.\n\nWith , she made a call at Qingdao Port, PRC in mid-April 2007.\n\nIn April 2008, she visited Bangkok, Thailand with . Later that month she visited Manila, Philippines.\n\nOn 5 and 6 June 2010, she made a friendly visit to Fremantle, Australia to enhance bilateral cooperation between the Indian and Australian navies.\n\nVice admiral Karambir Singh, Flag Officer Commanding in Chief of Eastern Naval Command, who assumes duty as the 24th Chief of the Naval Staff (India), after Admiral Sunil Lanba, as confirmed on Saturday, 23 March 2019, had sea commands of Guided Missile Destroyers INS Rana and INS Delhi (D61).\n\nThe ships, as part of a battle group of 4 ships began a sustained operational deployment to the South China Sea and the North West Pacific Ocean. the other three ships were , a \"Deepak\"-class fleet tanker, , a stealth frigate, and , a \"Kora\"-class corvette. This battle group was under the command of Rear Admiral P Ajit Kumar, Flag Officer Commanding, Eastern Naval Command. According to the Ministry of Defence, the two-month deployment, far from India's usual area of operations, along with naval exercises with a number of countries, aimed to demonstrate the Indian navy's operational reach.\n\nDuring the deployment the battle group participated in passage exercises with the navies of the countries visited. The 'passage exercises' focussed on maritime security cooperation, which included humanitarian aid & disaster relief operations and 'visit, board, search and seizure' (VBSS) drills for anti-piracy operations. These exercises aimed to increase naval inter-operability, enabling the two navies to function together smoothly during possible disaster relief operations. In addition, during the port visits, the fleet commander along with the commanding officers of the ships met high-ranking officials of the navy, state administration, port management, coastal security organization, police, and other stakeholders of maritime security in the countries visited, to share professional experiences and exchange\nbest practices in areas of mutual interest.\n\nThe ship was deployed in the North West Pacific for JIMEX 2012 (Japan-India Maritime Exercise) with the four ship group, and took part in India's first bi-lateral maritime exercise with Japan. The Japanese Maritime Self-Defence Force (JMSDF) was represented by two destroyers, one maritime patrol aircraft and a helicopter.\n\nThe four ships entered Tokyo on 5 June after visiting Singapore, Vietnam, Philippines and Republic of Korea. They stayed in Tokyo for 3 days. This visit coincides with commemoration of 60 years of diplomatic relations between India and Japan. Vice Admiral Anil Chopra, Flag Officer Commanding-in-Chief Eastern Naval Command also visited Tokyo to witness the first JIMEX.\n\nAfter the deployment in the North Pacific, the battle group was deployed in the South China Sea. As part of India's \"Look East\" policy, the ships visited the Shanghai port on 13 June 2012, for a five-day goodwill tour. \"Shakti\" served as the fuel and logistics tanker to the three destroyers. The ships left the port on 17 June 2012. Before leaving the port, the ships conducted routine passage exercise with the People's Liberation Army Navy.\n\nAfter the visits to Singapore, Vietnam, Philippines, Japan, South Korea and China, the ships visited Port Klang, Malaysia. This was the last port call of the battle group, after which it returned to the Eastern fleet of the Indian Navy, after being on a two-month-long deployment which started in May 2012.\n\nOn Thursday, 1 June 2017, a 21 year old unmarried Naval officer, Vikash Yadav, electrical mechanic of power class 1, was found dead at 5 am, with bullet injuries, on board the INS Rana in Visakhapatnam, while on duty as security sentry. He belonged to Bhind in Madhya Pradesh. A formal inquiry was ordered by the Indian Navy and case registered with the Malkapuram police.\n"}
{"id": "2300210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300210", "title": "All Aboard the Blue Train with Johnny Cash", "text": "All Aboard the Blue Train with Johnny Cash\n\nAll Aboard the Blue Train is the fourteenth album by singer Johnny Cash. It was originally released on 15 November 1962 by his first label, Sun, and later re-issued in 2003 under the label Varèse Sarabande, with six bonus tracks. In 1962 Johnny Cash had already signed with Columbia Records, but Sun was still cashing in on him by releasing this album with 12 previously released tracks as a follow-up to Cash's 1960 Columbia album \"Ride This Train\" (only the opening track, \"Blue Train\", had not up to this point been released on LP). The iTunes release contains the original album, but a different song order.\n"}
{"id": "2300224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300224", "title": "Sounds from True Stories", "text": "Sounds from True Stories\n\nSounds from True Stories, subtitled \"Music for Activities Freaks\", is the soundtrack to David Byrne's 1986 film \"True Stories\". It was released only on cassette and LP.\n\nThe album is not a complete soundtrack recording, featuring only a couple of the vocal songs heard in the film, with the rest being instrumental music. Byrne's band Talking Heads released the album \"True Stories\", which contained versions of the other songs in the film.\n\n\n\"Glass Operator\" is an orchestral rendition of \"Dream Operator\" featuring a glass harmonica; \"City of Steel\" is a steel guitar version of \"City of Dreams\", which, along with \"Dream Operator\", appears on Talking Heads' \"True Stories\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300234", "title": "Aschelminth", "text": "Aschelminth\n\nThe Aschelminthes (also known as Aeschelminthes, Nemathelminthes, Nematodes), closely associated with the Platyhelminthes, are an obsolete phylum of pseudocoelomate and other similar animals that are no longer considered closely related and have been promoted to phyla in their own right. The term Aschelminth is now generally only used as an informal name for any member of the approximately ten different invertebrate phyla formerly included within Aschelminthes.\n\nIt is a polyphyletic group.\n\nAlthough invertebrate experts do not necessarily agree on these categorizations, groups that are generally incorporated into Aschelminthes include:\n\n\nIn addition, Entoprocta and Tardigrada are sometimes included.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300238", "title": "Pool Shark 2", "text": "Pool Shark 2\n\nPool Shark 2 is a sports video game developed by Blade Interactive and published by Zoo Digital Publishing for the PlayStation 2, Xbox and Microsoft Windows. It is the sequel to \"Pool Shark\".\n\n\"Pool Shark 2\" received mixed reviews. Aggregating review website GameRankings gave the Xbox version 67.00% and the PlayStation 2 version 62.40%.\n"}
{"id": "2300253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300253", "title": "Passenger to Frankfurt", "text": "Passenger to Frankfurt\n\nPassenger to Frankfurt: An Extravaganza is a spy novel by Agatha Christie first published in the United Kingdom by the Collins Crime Club in September 1970 and in the United States by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at twenty-five shillings. In preparation for decimalisation on 15 February 1971, it was concurrently priced on the dustjacket at £1.25. The US edition retailed at $5.95.\n\nIt was published to mark Christie's eightieth birthday and, by counting up both UK and US short-story collections to reach the desired total, was also advertised as her eightieth book. It is the last of her spy novels. At the beginning of the book there is a quote by Jan Smuts, \"\"Leadership, besides being a great creative force, can be diabolical ...\"\"\n\nSir Stafford Nye, a middle-aged diplomat, steps into the world of spies, double agents, and secret groups to effect a change in international power centres. He meets a woman who has selected him to aid her at a crucial point, when a weather delay changes where her and his aeroplane flight lands before proceeding to England. There is much commentary on the changes in the world, especially college age youth in Europe, the United States, and South America, in the late 1960s.\n\nThe novel received mixed reviews at publication and in 1990. In 2017, it was assessed favourably in an essay about speculative spy thriller novels by women. It is one of only four Christie novels not to have received an adaptation of any kind, the others being \"Death Comes as the End\", \"Destination Unknown\" and \"Postern of Fate\".\n\nSir Stafford Nye's flight home from Malaya takes an unexpected twist, when a woman approaches him in the Frankfurt Airport. The woman claims that her life is in danger, and that she needs his help. Nye agrees to lend her his travelling cloak, passport, and boarding ticket. A colleague in London, Horsham of Security, tells Nye that his action in Frankfurt saved Mary Ann's life; Sir Stafford heard another name announced for her at the airport, Daphne Theodofanous. Nye has dinner with his friend Eric, worried for his professional reputation. Mary Ann returns his passport, taped into a magazine in his post. Nye advertises in the personals section of the newspaper for his mystery woman, signing himself as Passenger to Frankfurt. She replies with tickets to an opera, given at a discreet meeting on a bridge. His great-aunt Matilda hints to him of a terrible world-wide conspiracy, which uses a phrase of music from Richard Wagner, related to the opera \"Siegfried\" (1876). Matilda detects that he has a woman in his life now.\n\nThe opera is \"Siegfried\", part of \"The Ring of the Nibelung\" by Wagner. The mystery woman attends only the second half, leaving Nye the tune for young Siegfried marked on a copy of the program, a motif for what she is doing. He attends an embassy party, given by the American ambassador and his wife, Sam and Mildred Cortman. Mary Ann is there, under her real name, Countess Renata Zerkowski. She offers Nye a ride home, but takes him instead to the home of Mr Robinson the financier, where they meet Colonel Pikeaway, Lord Altamount, James Kleek and Horsham. Nye is not seen for a while, as he has been accepted by the close-knit group of British intelligence to aid in accomplishing the tasks Mary Ann has taken on. They travel extensively. Mary Ann warns Nye that one among their own group is probably a traitor.\n\nSome believe that near the end of World War II, Adolf Hitler went to a mental institution, met with a group of people who thought they were Hitler, and exchanged places with one of them, thus surviving the war. He escaped to Argentina, where he married and had a son who was branded with a swastika on his heel. This belief encourages those who want to resurrect the beliefs and ways of the Nazis. The Countess believes she has this boy with his swastika tattoo. The story is told to the Intelligence group by psychiatrist Dr Reichardt, but they know it is false. Hitler had no son. The British Intelligence group explains in several long expository chapters how drugs, promiscuity, and student unrest in the United States and Europe are caused by Nazi agitators. The agitators begin to bring about anarchy, attacking the American ambassador and the French Marshal. The goal is to re-build fascism. Meetings in Paris and London describe the movement of money and arms and their sources, and major players.\n\nNye's aunt, Lady Matilda, goes on her own trip, to visit her school mate, Countess Charlotte von Waldsausen, learning Charlotte's plans to be leader of the fascist world, which she then relates to her nephew. On her return, Matilda tells her friend Admiral Philip Blunt about the scientist Professor Shoreham, who invented something called Project B, or Benvo, which is a drug that makes people altruistic, but may cause a long-term change. Shoreham had a stroke, and he cannot communicate well. He had shelved Project B before his stroke. The Intelligence group meets at Shoreham's home, where he explains the limitations of his benevolent project. Kleek, traitor in the Intelligence group tries to kill Lord Altamount by poison and is blocked, so Miss Ellis the nurse to Shoreham shoots Lord Altamount, who dies of shock. Miss Ellis is recognized as Milly Jean Cortman, who had also killed her husband. The violent incident brings new energy to Shoreham, who resolves to restart work on his project. He will contact his colleague Gottlieb to restart Project Benvo and also arrange a memorial to Lord Altamount, the only politician he had ever trusted.\n\nThe final chapter is an epilogue, with Nye at Matilda's house preparing for his upcoming marriage to Mary Ann. The supposed son of Hitler has been brought to England for a more normal life and is about to become the organist at their church. Sybil, Nye's 5-year-old niece, will be the flower girl at the wedding. Nye forgot a best man, but asks Sybil to bring the panda, which he bought for her at the Frankfurt airport, in it from the beginning.\n\n\n\n\n\nFrancis Iles (Anthony Berkeley Cox) in \"The Guardian\" (15 October 1970) said, \"Of all the idiotic conventions attaching to the thriller the silliest is the idea that a car whizzing round a corner at high speed can be aimed at an intended victim who has, quite unseen, stepped off the pavement into the roadway at exactly the right moment. Agatha Christie uses this twice in \"Passenger to Frankfurt\". For the rest the book is largely a discursus on a favourite old theme of Mrs Christie's, the present state of the world and its future outlook, on both of which she takes a somewhat dim view. In other words, for her eightieth book a rather more serious work than usual from this author.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" (13 September 1970) began, \"Her eightieth book and [al]though not her best very far from her worst.\" He concluded: \"At moments one wonders whether the old dear knows the difference between a hippie and a skinhead but she is still marvellously entertaining. I shall expect her to turn permissive for her eighty-firster.\"\n\nRobert Barnard said of this spy novel that it was \"The last of the thrillers, and one that slides from the unlikely to the inconceivable and finally lands up in incomprehensible muddle. Prizes should be offered to readers who can explain the ending. Concerns the youth uproar of the 'sixties, drugs, a new Aryan superman and so on, subjects of which Christie's grasp was, to say the least, uncertain (she seems to have the oddest idea of what the term 'Third World' means, for example). Collins insisted she subtitle the book 'An Extravaganza.' One can think of other descriptions.\"\n\nPhyllis Lassner compares \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" with the Cold War novels of John le Carré, and with the novel \"The Salzburg Connection\" (1968) by Helen MacInnes. These novels reassess the victory of the Allies of World War II, and question the stability of post-war peace. The novels dramatise their era's anxieties about the re-emergence of Fascism during the Cold War. Lassner views both \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" and \"The Salzburg Connection\" as \"speculative political fantasies\".\n\nBoth Christie and MacInnes employed tropes typical for spy fiction: \"masculine leadership\", double agents, and thrilling chases and getaways. However, both female writers revised the typical gender roles of the spy fiction genre. The female characters of the two novels play an important role in investigating and intervening in international crises. While spy fiction writers typically reduce the female characters to sidekicks or romantic distractions for their protagonists.\n\nConcerning Christie, Lassner notes that this was far from her first spy novel. Early in her career, Christie wrote a series of spy thrillers, such as \"The Secret Adversary\" (1922), \"The Man in the Brown Suit\" (1924), \"The Big Four\" (1927), and \"The Seven Dials Mystery\" (1929). However, \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" differs from other Christie novels, because it is not another example of detective fiction or crime fiction. It is a combination of thriller and dystopian fiction, exploring a hypothetical future for the entire world. The novel depicts a resurgence of Nazism, which depends on uniting the young people of the world under its creed. The new Nazi movement and its agents seduce the world's youth with promises of glory and heroism. The indoctrinated youth are manipulated into overthrowing the governments of their respective nations, and redeploying the national resources into supporting a new regime. The actual goal of the conspiracy is to establish a global oligarchy, controlled by a self-appointed master race.\n\nLassner also notes Christie's view on Nazism in general. The Fourth Reich of the novel is depicted as relying on a culture of drug users, sadism, lust for power, and hatred. The potential rise of this Reich to power is depicted as a downfall for the ideals of Individuality and democracy, along with the associated social and political order. Aunt Matilda serves as the proverbial \"fount of wisdom\" of the novel, when observing that the Reich is not based on new ideas, but on an old, and recurring one. That everybody must follow \"the young hero\", the \"golden superman\", \"the young Siegfried\". Nye dismisses his aunt's warnings about Nazism as mere fancies. But Matilda notes that people said the same thing in the interwar period about Adolf Hitler and about the Hitler Youth. But at that time, Nazism was planning its rise to power through planting fifth columns in different countries. People passionately believing in the Nazi creed. Matilda argues that the same methods could work again in the Cold War era, if the Nazi message is \"offered cleverly enough\".\n\nChristie does not locate the dangers of the novel's era only to the 1960s \"brigades of revolutionary youth\". Christie uses the novel to criticize the apathy of an older generation, while the youth of the era causes riots around the world. The recruitment drive for a new Children's Crusade, is (according to Christie) the result of the failure of the post-war generations (the parents and grandparents of the rioting youth) to create a better or more progressive political order. The older generations of the novel essentially cling to an \"archaic political order\" , that offers no real progressive ideas. Lassner feels that it is not a coincidence that the novel opens with Stafford Nye dozing off at the Frankfurt Airport. It reflects Nye's casual indifference towards the political changes in the world surrounding him.\n\nThe late 1960s quest of Countess Renata and Nye to stop the \"fascist crusade\", causes them to travel from the United Kingdom to an 18th-century Schloss, which the text places in proximity to Berchtesgaden. Berchtesgaden is described as \"Hitler's mountain lair\". The Schloss of the novel serves as the headquarters of Gräfin Charlotte von Waldsausen, the place from where she devises strategies for world domination and trying to convert individuals into an obedient mass. The novel notes that Charlotte's original family name was \"Krapp\". Christie intended the name as a pun, connecting the villain of the novel with the Krupp family of industrialists, which was essential for Hitler's war machine. The Gräfin is depicted as explicitly supporting the Holocaust, when she fondly recalls deaths in gas chambers and torture cells. Her personal wealth, essential for financing her schemes, is described in the novel as deriving from the exploitation of the world's natural resources. She reportedly earned this wealth through exploitation and control over oil, copper, goldmines in South Africa, armaments in Sweden, uranium deposits, nuclear developments, and \"vast stretches\" of cobalt.\n\n\nThe book has been published continuously since 1970 and up to 2020, in English and other languages, per the list of books held at libraries in WorldCat.\n\nThe International Standard Book Number (ISBN) system was introduced in 1970 by the International Standards Organization (ISO), and this is the first Agatha Christie novel to have an ISBN on the first edition. Re-issues published in 1970 or later of her earlier novels have the ISBN issued and appears on the book, but not the first editions of those novels.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300259", "title": "Gonville &amp; Caius A.F.C.", "text": "Gonville &amp; Caius A.F.C.\n\nGonville & Caius AFC, more commonly known as Caius, is the representative football club of Gonville & Caius College, Cambridge, England. It is one of only a few university teams to have entered the FA Cup 1st round proper.\n\nCaius football club has a long and distinguished history, entering the first Cuppers, the FA Cup 1st round proper in two years of the 19th century. The club has had numerous Blues, as well as an England international and Test cricket captain. Caius play their home games at Barton Road sports ground. The club enters four men's teams and a women's team into the Cambridge University Association Football League.\n\nWhile no one knows exactly when Gonville & Caius College first had an official football club, it is highly likely that members of the college were playing football on Parker's Piece in the mid-19th century with other members of the university. Caius entered a team in the inaugural Cuppers tournament of 1882-1883, but took their place in history by entering the FA Cup in 1880-1881 and 1881-1882 as the only university team in the competition. The last year that Cambridge and Oxford university teams had entered was 1879-1880, the year in which Oxford finished as runners-up to Clapham Rovers. It was left to Caius to continue the Corinthian values of the amateur teams in the face of the impending dominance of professional clubs such as Blackburn Rovers and Preston North End. The challenge by Caius was not to be successful, with the team giving walkovers to Nottingham Forest in 1880 and Dreadnought in 1881. This was to mirror the end of an era for amateur clubs as the last year a university side competed in the 1st round of the FA Cup was the last year an amateur side would win the competition. The achievement of Caius has only been replicated once, in 2003, by Team Bath. Since 1881, Caius has only competed in intra-University competitions. In 2018 Caius won the Men's 2nd team, Men's 3rd team, and Women's Cuppers competition, which was one of the most successful years in club history. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300264", "title": "Mattersdorf", "text": "Mattersdorf\n\nMattersdorf may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2300265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300265", "title": "Kings West", "text": "Kings West\n\nKings West is a provincial electoral district in Nova Scotia, Canada, that elects one member of the Nova Scotia House of Assembly. It includes the towns of Berwick and Kingston, and the village of Greenwood.\n\nThis riding has elected the following Members of the Legislative Assembly:\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n"}
{"id": "2300279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300279", "title": "Benny Ziffer", "text": "Benny Ziffer\n\nBenny Ziffer (; born 21 January 1953) is an Israeli author and journalist.\n\nBenjamin (Benny) Ziffer was born in Tel Aviv. His parents, Heinz and Nira (née Farhi), immigrated to Israel from Turkey in 1949. In 1895, his grandfather, Albert (Avraham) Ziffer, founded the world's first Jewish sports team in Istanbul. Ziffer studied French literature and political science.\nHe is married to Irit, and they have three children. Ziffer holds two nationalities: Israeli and Turkish.\n\nIn 1988, Ziffer was appointed literary editor of \"Haaretz\" daily newspaper.\nZiffer is the author of three novels. He has also translated French novels and poetry into Hebrew. Ziffer writes a political-cultural column in \"Haaretz\" that combines television reviews with reflections on contemporary Israeli life. \nSome of his columns are considered controversial; in 2015, Ziffer wrote that \"not recognizing the Armenian genocide is a triumph for common sense\", adding \"There are still a few responsible adults around who haven't surrendered to the self-righteous kitsch of national victimization\".\n\nIn August 2019, returning from a condolence visit to the Israeli settlement Ofra in the occupied West Bank, Ziffer wrote on his Facebook page: “En route I looked at the Palestinian villages alongside the Jewish communities, and I thought of how for the Palestinians murder is a type of sport or enjoyment, perhaps a substitute for erotica. From that perspective we will never have anything culturally in common with them. ... Regarding this evil and undignified people living among us, we can only yearn for the land to vomit it out, because it isn’t worthy of this land, which is full of Jewish blood that it has spilled.”\n\nIn 2010, Ziffer was awarded the Outstanding Contribution to New Media prize by the International Council for Press and Broadcasting at the International Media Awards in London\n\n"}
{"id": "2300282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300282", "title": "Record Mirror", "text": "Record Mirror\n\nRecord Mirror was a British weekly music newspaper between 1954 and 1991 for pop fans and record collectors. Launched two years after the \"NME\", it never attained the circulation of its rival. The first UK album chart was published in \"Record Mirror\" in 1956, and during the 1980s it was the only consumer music paper to carry the official UK singles and UK albums charts used by the BBC for Radio 1 and \"Top of the Pops\", as well as the US \"Billboard\" charts.\n\nThe title ceased in April 1991 when United Newspapers closed or sold most of their consumer magazines, including \"Record Mirror\" and \"Sounds\", to concentrate on newspapers. In 2010 Giovanni di Stefano bought the name \"Record Mirror\" and relaunched it as an online music gossip website in 2011. The website became inactive in 2013 following di Stefano's jailing for fraud.\n\n\"Record Mirror\" was founded by former \"Weekly Sporting Review\" editor Isidore Green, who encouraged the same combative journalism as \"NME\". Staff writers included Dick Tatham, Peter Jones and Ian Dove. Green's background was in show business and he emphasised music hall, a dying tradition. He published articles and interviews connected with theatre and musical personalities. His interest in gossip from TV, radio, stage and screen was not well received.\n\nOn 22 January 1955 \"Record Mirror\" became the second music paper after \"NME\" to publish a singles chart. The chart was a Top 10, from postal returns from 24 stores. On 8 October the chart expanded to Top 20, and by 1956 more than 60 stores were being sampled. In April 1961 increased postage costs affected funding of the returns and on 24 March 1962 the paper abandoned its charts and began using those of \"Record Retailer\", which had begun in March 1960.\n\nThe first album charts in the UK were published in \"Record Mirror\" on 28 July 1956.\n\nFor two months in 1959, \"Record Mirror\" failed to appear due to a national printing strike. On its return, Green renamed it \"Record and Show Mirror\", the majority of space devoted to show business. By the end of 1960 circulation had fallen to 18,000 and Decca Records, the main shareholder, became uneasy. In March 1961, Decca replaced Green with Jimmy Watson, a former Decca press officer. Watson changed the title to \"New Record Mirror\" and eliminated show business. Circulation rose, aided by an editorial team of Peter Jones, Ian Dove and Norman Jopling. He brought in freelance columnists James Asman, Benny Green and DJ David Gell to implement a chart coverage including jazz, country and pop music. This eventually included the official UK Top 50 singles, Top 30 LPs and Top 10 EPs, as compiled by \"Record Retailer\". The paper also listed the USA Top 50 singles, compiled by \"Cash Box\", and charts such as the Top 20 singles of five years ago and R&B releases.\n\nFeatures such as Ian Dove's \"Rhythm & Blues Round Up\", Peter Jones's \"New Faces\" and Norman Jopling's \"Fallen Idols and Great Unknowns\", combined with \"New Record Mirror\"'s music coverage, helped circulation rise to nearly 70,000. \"New Record Mirror\" was the first national publication to publish an article on the Beatles, and the first to feature the Rolling Stones, the Searchers, the Who, and the Kinks. Bill Harry, founder and editor of the Liverpool publication \"Mersey Beat\", wrote a column on Liverpool music. Other columnists reported on Birmingham, Manchester, Sheffield and Newcastle. \"New Record Mirror\" took an interest in black American R&B artists. The paper maintained articles on old-style rock and roll.\n\nDuring 1963 Decca Records' chairman Edward Lewis sold a substantial share of Decca's interest to John Junor, editor of the \"Sunday Express\". Junor was looking for a paper to print by four-colour printing developed by Woodrow Wyatt in Banbury, before printing the \"Sunday Express\" in colour. \nJunor moved \"Sunday Express\" production to Shaftesbury Avenue and \"New Record Mirror\" became more mainstream. In November 1963, the paper returned to the name \"Record Mirror\", and featured a colour picture of the Beatles on the cover, the first music paper in full colour. Although the first run of 120,000 sold out, the following issue fell to 60,000. Junor replaced Jimmy Watson by Peter Jones. Circulation recovered and the paper successfully continued with the same format throughout the 1960s. Following acquisition in 1962 of \"NME\" by Odhams, \"Record Mirror\" was the only independent popular music newspaper.\n\nDuring 1969 \"Record Mirror\" was acquired by \"Record Retailer\" and incorporated into \"Record Retailer\" offices in Carnaby Street. The acquisition saw the magazine change printers, drop full colour pin-ups and increase its size to a larger tabloid format. Jones continued as editor, supported by Valerie Mabbs, Lon Goddard, Rob Partridge, Bill McAllister (the first music journalist to herald Elton John and Rod Stewart), and broadcast-specialist Rodney Collins, who had moved from \"Record Retailer\". Collins's links with pirate radio gave \"Record Mirror\" a continental circulation and a Dutch supplement was frequently included. Terry Chappell resumed as production editor and Bob Houston supervised the change in format. Group editorial manager Mike Hennessey contributed the first interview with John Lennon. The \"Record Mirror\" photographic studio became independent, under Dezo Hoffmann.\n\nIn a studio outtake of a recording of \"Sally Simpson\" on the 2003 release of the deluxe edition of the Who's 1969 album \"Tommy\", Pete Townshend said, \"I've read the \"Record Mirror\"\". When Keith Moon presses him to tell what he read in the \"Record Mirror\", Pete says, to the rest of the band's laughter, that the paper said that he was known by the other members of the Who as \"Bone\".\n\nIn 1975 \"Disc\" was incorporated into \"Record Mirror\" – among the items brought to \"Record Mirror\" was J Edward Oliver's cartoon, which had been running in \"Disc\" for five years, and which continued for a two years in \"Record Mirror\". By 1977 \"Record Retailer\" had become \"Music Week\" and \"Record Mirror\" was included in a sale by \"Billboard\" magazine to the Morgan-Grampian Group. Both offices moved to Covent Garden. Morgan-Grampian moved to Greater London House, north London in 1981.\n\nIn 1982 the paper changed from tabloid to glossy magazine. During the next nine years it had a more pop-orientated slant and containing features and comic articles, such as:\n\n\n\"Record Mirror\" became the second magazine to compile and publish a record chart on 22 January 1955. Unlike the \"New Musical Express\" who conducted a phone poll of retailers for a chart, \"Record Mirror\" arranged for its pool of retailers to send in a list of best sellers by post. The paper would finance the costs of this survey and by 1957 over 60 shops would be regularly contributing from a rotating pool of over 80. The chart was a top 10 until 8 October 1955. It then became a top 20; which it stayed at until being replaced by the \"Record Retailer\" top 50. It also inaugurated the countries first Long Player chart, which commenced as a top five on 28 July 1956. \nBy March 1962, \"Record Mirror\" adopted publication of \"Record Retailer\"s top 50 from 24 March 1962. After 21 April 1966, \"Record Mirror\" published a \"Bubbling Under List\" right under the main chart (at the time the Singles Top 50, the Albums Top 30 and the EP Top 10). \"The Breakers\", as it was called later in the year, were 10 to 15 records (for the singles chart) which had not made the top 50 that week, but were poised to reach the big chart the next week ranked in sales order i.e. as if they occupied positions 51 to 64. \"The Breakers\" list was ceased when BMRB took over chart compilation in February 1969 but by September 1970, it was re-instated (singles only) and appeared of and on under the main chart up until May 1978 (when the top 75 was introduced). In the years 1974 and 1975 the list even expanded to 30 titles, of which the first 10 were called \"Star Breakers\" and given in order of sales, with the other 20 were listed alphabetically. In January 1983, when Gallup took over chart compilation, the singles chart extended to a Top 100, with positions 76-100 as 'The Next 25' - excluding singles dropping out of the Top 75 or with significantly reduced sales. 'The Next 25' was discontinued by \"Music Week\" in November 1990. \"Record Mirror\" continued printing it until the magazine's demise in April 1991.\n\nIn 1984, when British tabloids started bingo competitions, \"Record Mirror\" became the first music paper to experiment with something similar. \"Record Mirror\" was the only magazine during the 1980s to print the weekly US singles and album charts, with analysis by chart statistician Alan Jones.\n\n\nIn June 1975, DJ James Hamilton (1942–1996) started writing a weekly \"disco\" column, which in the 1980s expanded into a general dance music section known as \"BPM\". Hamilton had started DJing in London in the early 1960s, and had been writing about US soul and R&B for \"Record Mirror\" since 1964, originally as Dr Soul. After a visit to the Paradise Garage in the 1970s to see Larry Levan play, he came back to the UK a convert to mixing records, unknown at the time. To promote his views, he developed his onomatopoeic style of describing a record, and from 1979 he started timing and including the beats per minute of records he reviewed.\n\nHamilton later included the DJ directory.\n\n\nIn 1987 Morgan-Grampian was acquired by United Newspapers (now UBM). On 2 April 1991, \"Record Mirror\" closed on the same day as its United Newspapers sister publication \"Sounds\", with the last issue dated 6 April 1991. The final cover featured Transvision Vamp. Eleanor Levy, the final editor, believed the decision to close the magazine was \"taken by accountants rather than people who understand music. When I explained to one of the management team that our strength was dance music, he thought I meant Jive Bunny.\"\n\nJames Hamilton moved to the trade magazine, \"Jocks\", which was changing to a dance magazine as \"DJ Mag\". \"Record Mirror\" continued as a four-page supplement in \"Music Week\". In later years the supplement concentrated on dance music: dance charts were later incorporated into \"Music Week\". Hamilton continued to review record for the supplement until two weeks before his death on 17 June 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJ Edward Oliver 1970 - 1977\n\nBusiness Team\n\n"}
{"id": "2300284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300284", "title": "Jack Torrance", "text": "Jack Torrance\n\nJohn Daniel Edward Torrance is the main character of Stephen King's horror novel \"The Shining\" (1977). He was portrayed by Jack Nicholson in the novel's 1980 film adaptation, by Steven Weber in the 1997 miniseries, by Brian Mulligan in the 2016 opera and by Henry Thomas in the 2019 film adaptation of \"Doctor Sleep\". The American Film Institute rated the character (as played by Nicholson) the 25th-greatest film villain of all time. In 2008, Jack Torrance was selected by \"Empire\" magazine as one of the 100 greatest movie characters. \"Premiere\" magazine also ranked Torrance on their list of their 100 greatest movie characters of all time.\n\nHe grew up in Berlin, New Hampshire, where his father Mark Torrance worked in the Regional Community Hospital. He also has three older siblings: Brett, Becky and Mike. He is a writer and former teacher whose alcoholism and volatile temper costs him his teaching position at a small preparatory school when he assaults a student he catches vandalizing his car. Later, his drinking nearly ends his marriage to his wife, Wendy, after he breaks his son Danny's arm in a blind rage. He finally decides to quit drinking after a drunk driving accident in which he and a friend run over an abandoned bicycle in the road and realize they could've killed a child. He accepts a position maintaining the isolated Overlook Hotel in Colorado for the winter, hoping this will salvage his family, re-establish his career, and give him the time and privacy to finish a promising play. He moves to the hotel with Wendy and Danny, who is telepathic and sensitive to supernatural forces. Danny receives guidance from an imaginary friend he calls \"Tony.\" Danny is also comforted by meeting the hotel's kindly cook, Dick Hallorann, who shares Danny's telepathic abilities.\n\nIt is later revealed that Jack's father, also an alcoholic, was abusive towards his family. A flashback scene in the novel shows his drunk father brutally bashing Jack's mother with a cane.\n\nThe Hotel is haunted by the ghosts of those who died violently within it and is itself host to a being of unknown origin, who wishes to coerce Jack into killing Danny. Apparently, the Hotel believes if it can harness the boy's \"shining\", then it can gather enough power to \"break free\" of the building in which it has somehow become trapped. Jack has encounters with ghosts of previous staff of the hotel, who insist he has always been working there and he must kill his family. Jack eventually succumbs to these supernatural forces, starts drinking again, and grows to hate his own wife and child.\n\nJack cuts off all radio communications and sabotages the hotel snowmobile, their only means of transportation. He then tries to kill Wendy, who knocks him out and locks him in a storage room. Jack is later helped out of the food storage room by the ghost of the previous caretaker, who murdered his own family before committing suicide.\n\nJack then brutally attacks Wendy with a roque mallet he found, although she escapes. He is interrupted by the arrival of Hallorann, whom he almost beats to death.\n\nJack finds and confronts Danny, and is about to kill him when his son reaches through the hotel's power and brings out his father's true self. Jack tells Danny to run and remember how much he loves him, before the hotel's power takes over again and forces Jack to bash in his own face with the mallet. Jack had forgotten to dump the boiler, which grows too hot and causes the hotel to explode. Jack is killed, but Danny, Wendy and Hallorann get out just in time.\n\nIn the sequel novel \"Doctor Sleep\" (2013), Danny (now going by Dan) learns that Jack is also the biological father of Lucy Stone, a woman whose daughter Abra has manifested “shining” abilities even stronger than Dan's. Shortly before he was fired from his teaching position, and unbeknownst to Wendy, Jack had a brief sexual encounter with a student teacher Sandy Reynolds at a party that led to Lucy's conception. Dan is thus Lucy's half-brother and Abra's half-uncle. This book gives Jack's middle name as Edward rather than Daniel.\n\nIn the climax of the novel, Jack's ghost intervenes to help Danny, now going by \"Dan\", Dan's friend Billy Freeman, and Lucy and Abra Stone defeat the main antagonists, Rose the Hat and the True Knot, at the site where the Overlook once stood. After the battle, Jack and Dan make peace with each other before he, Billy, and Abra left the location.\n\nJack Torrance (played by Jack Nicholson) is portrayed in a less sympathetic manner in the 1980 film. In the novel, Jack is a tragic hero whose shortcomings lead to his defeat, while the film implies that he is prone to insanity from the start. The film also leaves out Jack's traumatic childhood.\n\nThe film's first major deviation from the source material occurs when Jack attacks Hallorann. In the film, instead of merely injuring him with the mallet, Jack kills Hallorann by planting an axe in his chest.\n\nIn the film, Jack hears Danny scream as he kills Hallorann, and chases his son to a hedge maze outside the hotel, while in the novel, topiary animals come to life and threaten Danny. In the film, Danny walks backwards in his own footprints to mislead Jack, then jumps to a side path and slips out of the maze.\n\nIn the film, Wendy and Danny escape the hotel in Hallorann's Snowcat, while Jack gets lost trying to pick up Danny's tracks, sits down to rest, and freezes to death. This is in contrast to the book, in which Hallorann, Wendy and Danny all escape minutes before the boiler explodes, killing Jack.\nThe film ends featuring an old photograph of a ball at the hotel from July 4, 1921, that shows Jack at the event.\n\nIn the film adaptation of \"Doctor Sleep\", Torrance's likeness (Henry Thomas) is taken by The Bartender at the Overlook for an interaction with the adult Danny (Ewan McGregor), which is expanded in the director's cut to include a following scene in the bathroom. Thomas also portrays Torrance in flashback sequences.\n\nAuthor Stephen King was unhappy with director Stanley Kubrick's 1980 film adaptation of the novel, particularly Nicholson's portrayal of Jack Torrance:\n\nKing then decided to create a miniseries based on his vision of the novel, with Jack Torrance as a more sympathetic character. Torrance in the miniseries is similar to the character in the novel, but the ending is changed. In the book, Jack redeems himself, and the boiler explodes due to the hotel's negligence. In the miniseries, Jack sacrifices himself by causing the boiler to explode in order to destroy the hotel.\n\nThe miniseries ends with a scene not in the book: Danny graduates from high school, while his spectral father looks on.\n\nAn opera based on Stephen King's 1977 novel originated with Eric Simonson, who directed the premiere production of the opera, and Minnesota Opera Artistic Director Dale Johnson. Paul Moravec and Mark Campbell planned to design their opera to adhere to King's novel, unlike the 1980 film adaptation. Jack and the other characters were portrayed similarly like in the novel, and it was approved of by King.\n"}
{"id": "2300289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300289", "title": "Tracadie (electoral district)", "text": "Tracadie (electoral district)\n\nTracadie was a provincial electoral district for the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, Canada. It has been superseded by the Tracadie-Sheila district in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300302", "title": "Nemesis (Christie novel)", "text": "Nemesis (Christie novel)\n\nNemesis is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie (1890–1976) and first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in November 1971 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at £1.50 and the US edition at $6.95. It was the last Miss Marple novel the author wrote, although \"Sleeping Murder\" was the last Miss Marple novel to be published.\n\nMiss Marple first encounters Jason Rafiel in \"A Caribbean Mystery\", where they solve a mystery. Miss Marple receives communications from him, sent posthumously, setting up the plot of this novel.\n\nMiss Marple receives a letter from the solicitors of the recently deceased Jason Rafiel, a millionaire whom she had met during a holiday on which she had encountered a murder, which asks her to look into an unspecified crime; if she succeeds in solving the crime, she will inherit £20,000. Rafiel has left her few clues. She begins by joining a tour of famous British houses and gardens with fifteen other people, arranged by Mr Rafiel prior to his death. Elizabeth Temple is the retired school headmistress who relates the story of Verity, who was engaged to Rafiel's ne'er-do-well son, Michael, but the marriage did not happen. Another member of the tour group, Miss Cooke, is a woman she had met briefly in St Mary Mead.\n\nHer next clue comes from Lavinia Glynne; Rafiel had written to Mrs Glynne and her two sisters before his death, suggesting Miss Marple spend the most physically challenging few days of the tour with them. Miss Marple accepts Lavinia's invitation. She then meets Lavinia's spinster sisters, Clotilde and Anthea Bradbury-Scott. On talking with the servant, Miss Marple learns Verity joined the family after both her parents died, becoming quite attached to Clotilde. Verity is dead now, brutally murdered. Michael Rafiel is in prison.\n\nOn the morning of her return to her party, Miss Marple learns Miss Temple had been injured by a rockslide during the previous day's hike, and was lying in a coma in hospital. The group stays over an extra night to wait for news from the tour guide about Miss Temple's health. Professor Wanstead, a pathologist and psychologist interested in criminal brains, had been instructed by Mr Rafiel to go on the tour. He had examined Michael Rafiel at the request of the head of the prison where Michael was incarcerated; he came to the conclusion Michael was not capable of murder. He tells Miss Marple how uninterested Michael's father seemed. He mentions a missing young local woman, Nora Broad, and he fears she will be found murdered. Wanstead takes Miss Marple to see Miss Temple; in a moment of consciousness, Miss Temple had asked for Miss Marple. Miss Temple wakes long enough to tell Miss Marple to \"search for Verity Hunt\", and dies that night. The three sisters extend their invitation to Miss Marple when she decides not to return to the tour, and she promptly accepts. That night, Mrs Glynne tells the story of Verity in their household to Miss Marple.\n\nAfter the inquiry into Miss Temple's death, Miss Marple is visited by Archdeacon Brabazon, a friend of Miss Temple. He tells Miss Marple he was going to marry Verity Hunt and Michael Rafiel in a secret ceremony. While he disapproved of the secrecy and worried about their prospects, he agreed to marry them because he could see they were in love. He was most surprised when neither turned up for the wedding, nor sent a note. Miss Marple stays another few nights with the three sisters when the tour moves on. Professor Wanstead travels to London by train on an errand for Miss Marple. Miss Barrow and Miss Cooke decide they will visit a nearby church. Later that evening, Miss Marple talks with the sisters about what she thinks may have happened and, while they are doing so, Miss Barrow and Miss Cooke appear, to talk to Miss Marple. They stay for a time and are then invited back for coffee that evening.\n\nAs they talk about Miss Temple, Miss Marple suggests, albeit dissembling, Joanna Crawford and Emlyn Price (two of those on the tour) pushed the boulder, and their alibis are mere fabrication. As they get ready to leave, Miss Cooke suggests the coffee would not suit Miss Marple, as it will keep her up all night. Clotilde then offers some warm milk. The two ladies soon depart, although each returns to retrieve a forgotten item. At three o'clock in the morning, Clotilde enters Miss Marple's room, surprised when Miss Marple turns on the light. Miss Marple tells her she did not drink the milk. Clotilde offers to warm it up, but Miss Marple tells her she still would not drink it because she knows Clotilde killed Verity Hunt and buried her body in the wreck of the greenhouse, because she could not bear Verity leaving her for someone else. She also knows Clotilde brutally murdered Nora Broad to (mis)identify her body as Verity's and thus throw suspicion on Michael Rafiel. Clotilde murdered Miss Temple as well. As Clotilde advances toward her, Miss Marple blows on a whistle, which brings Miss Cooke and Miss Barrow to her defence — they are bodyguards employed by Mr Rafiel to protect Miss Marple. Clotilde drinks the milk herself, which is poisoned. Miss Marple tells the story to the Home Secretary, including that Verity is buried on the property of the Bradbury-Scotts. Michael Rafiel is set free. Miss Marple collects her inheritance, confident she completed the task given her.\n\n\nMatthew Coady in \"The Guardian\" of 4 November 1971 concluded, \"Not a Christie classic but the old hand is astonishingly fresh and the mixture as relaxing as a hot bath.\"\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" of 31 October 1971 said of Miss Marple in this story, \"The showdown when, alone in bed, quite defenceless with not even a knitting-needle, she is confronted by a brawny great fiend of a butch, is devilish fine. Not one of her best, perhaps, but remarkably inventive, quite worthy of the Picasso of the detective story.\"\n\nThe \"Daily Mirror\" of 28 October 1971 said, \"With this first-rate story Dame Agatha triumphantly returns to the traditional detective novel after a spell of psychological suspense.\"\n\nRobert Weaver in the \"Toronto Daily Star\" of 4 December 1971 said, \"Christie richly deserves the loyalty offered up to her by devotees of the traditional mystery. She is readable and ingenious, and in \"Nemesis\" she has going for her the amateur lady sleuth Miss Jane Marple deep in a murder case as she tries to carry out a request that comes in effect from beyond the grave. Beyond 80 Miss Christie remains unflagging.\"\n\nRobert Barnard commented about the plot that \"Miss Marple is sent on a tour of stately gardens by Mr Rafiel.\" His generally negative view of the novel was said in this way, that \"The garden paths we are led up are neither enticing nor profitable. All the usual strictures about late Christie apply.\"\n\nIn 1987, \"Nemesis\" was broadcast by the BBC in two 50-minute parts on Sunday, 8 February, and Sunday, 15 February 1987. It was the eighth adaptation (of twelve) in the series \"Miss Marple\" starring Joan Hickson as Miss Marple. It deviates quite significantly from the novel. Miss Temple is killed by a stone bust pushed off a balcony while she tours a library rather than by a rock slide during a hike, Michael Rafiel is not sent to prison for Verity's death as he was never charged due to lack of proof and instead is seen living on the streets, and Nora Broad's name is changed to Norah Brent. A new fictional nephew/godson of Miss Marple, Lionel Peel, accompanies her; he is staying with her after his wife chucked him out. Also, the characters of Emlyn Price and Joanna Crawford are removed.\n\nAt the time of the broadcast, the prequel story \"A Caribbean Mystery\" had not been produced or broadcast. The part of Jason Rafiel was eventually played by Donald Pleasence and not by Frank Gatliff who portrayed the character in this production.\n\nAdaptor: TR Bowen\nDirector: David Tucker\n\nCast:\n\nIn 2007, ITV broadcast \"Nemesis\" (aired 1 January 2009) with Geraldine McEwan as part of the third season of her \"Marple\" series. As with other adaptations made for this series, this version was only very loosely based on the novel, with the plot, motives and identity of most of the characters and scenes altered, and almost everything about the character of the murderer substantially changed. \n\nDirector: Nicolas Winding Refn\nCast:\n\n\"Nemesis\" was adapted for radio dramatisation by BBC Radio 4 starring June Whitfield. It first aired in November–December 1998 and again in later years, including 2011 and 2013.\n\n\n\nThe novel was first serialised in the UK weekly magazine \"Woman's Realm\" in seven abridged instalments from 25 September (Vol 27, No 702) to 6 November 1971 (Vol 27, No 708), with illustrations by Len Thurston. In North America the novel was serialised in the \"Star Weekly Novel\", a Toronto newspaper supplement, in two abridged instalments from 16 to 23 October 1971, with each issue containing the same cover illustration by Laszlo Gal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300305", "title": "Electrola", "text": "Electrola\n\nElectrola is a German record label and subsidiary of Universal Music Group. Based in Munich, its roster includes Chumbawamba, Matthias Reim, Helene Fischer, Brings, Höhner and Santiano.\n\nElectrola was founded in Berlin in 1925 by the Gramophone Company. In March 1931 Electrola, with its parent label and Carl Lindström Company parent Columbia Graphophone Company, merged to form the Electric & Musical Industries Ltd. (EMI).\n\nThe German EMI company was first called Lindstrom-Electrola. After World War II, it acquired the German rights to the His Master's Voice trademark from Deutsche Grammophon in 1949.\n\nIn 2002, Electrola was merged with the German branch of Virgin Records to form EMI Music Germany. With the acquisition of most of EMI by Universal Music Group in 2012, UMG now handles the German EMI and Electrola back catalog. The original HMV logo has continued as the label's logo over time.\n\nElectrola has achieved international chart success through many high-profile artists. Two of the most notable hits in the label's history are Marlene Dietrich's 1945 classic \"Lili Marleen\", and more recently Chumbawamba's 1997 hit \"Tubthumping\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300308", "title": "Honda MH02", "text": "Honda MH02\n\nThe Honda MH02 was an experimental business jet built by Honda, in cooperation with Mississippi State University, to research engine placement and composite construction. The prototype was completed in 1992, making its first flight on 5 March 1993.\n\nThe MH02 was never intended for production, but was nonetheless the first all-composite light business jet to fly; by 1996 over 170 test flight hours were accumulated on the airframe. Aside from the already unusual above-the-wing engine mounts, the design features a T-tail and a forward-swept wing. The aircraft was deregistered and exported to Japan in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300316", "title": "Fox News Sunday", "text": "Fox News Sunday\n\nFox News Sunday is a Sunday morning talk show airing on the broadcast Fox network since 1996, as a presentation of Fox News Channel. It is the only regularly scheduled Fox News program carried on the main Fox network.\n\nThe program began on April 28, 1996, 5½ months prior to the launch of the network's sister cable news network Fox News Channel. When the show originally launched, there was no studio, it aired from historic locations in the Washington DC area. The show was the first network news show to stream live on the Internet. The show was also the first to incorporate live user commentary. Users posted on an Internet BBS and the Internet Producer moderated by choosing and posting the comments in the screen's lower third. The show airs live at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, although many Fox stations can choose to broadcast it at a later time slot. For example, due to voluminous Packers preIt airs live at 9:00 a.m. Eastern Time, although many Fox stations can choose to broadcast it at a later time slot. For example, due to voluminous Packers pre-game and E/I requirements in the 2017 NFL season, WITI in Milwaukee has carried it in the past in Sunday late night. The program is also rebroadcast on Fox News Channel the same day at 2:00 and 7:00 p.m. ET.\n\nThe show was hosted by Tony Snow until 2003, when he left to become White House Press Secretary under President George W. Bush). It has been hosted by Chris Wallace since 2003.\n\nAn audio-only broadcast of the program is also carried on a number of radio stations. Most of these stations are owned by iHeartMedia (the former Clear Channel Communications), the largest radio station group that runs the division's Fox News Radio newscasts, along with WCSP-FM (C-SPAN Radio) in the Washington area and over the Internet, as part of its weekly audio airings of the major Sunday morning talk shows. In August 2008, \"Fox News Sunday\" began to be produced in high definition.\n\nThe first minute or so of the broadcast runs down the day's headlines, since Fox, unlike the Big Three television networks, does not have a conventional national morning news program that leads into \"Fox News Sunday\", though a limited amount of Fox's affiliates have local news programs leading into it. For the rest of the first half of the show, Wallace interviews news makers from the prior week.\n\nDuring the second half of the show, Wallace introduces a panel of four pundits to speak about the political impact of the news. Regular members of the panel include Brit Hume, National Public Radio correspondent Mara Liasson and the Hill columnist Juan Williams; Stephen F. Hayes and Fred Barnes of the \"Weekly Standard\", Associated Press White House reporter Julie Pace, columnists Charles Lane and George Will, \"Fortune\" Washington bureau chief Nina Easton, Fox News Washington deputy managing editor Bill Sammon, former state department official Liz Cheney, former Clinton chief of staff John Podesta, former White House Press Secretary Dana Perino, New York Post columnist Kirsten Powers, radio host Laura Ingraham, Roll Call columnist Mort Kondracke, \"Washington Examiner\" reporter Byron York and \"Washington Post\" reporter Ceci Connelly also appear on the panel on a limited basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300323", "title": "Naryn River", "text": "Naryn River\n\nThe Naryn River (, , ) rises in the Tian Shan mountains in Kyrgyzstan, Central Asia, flowing west through the Fergana Valley into Uzbekistan. Here it merges with the Kara Darya River (near Namangan) to form the Syr Darya. It is long (together with Chong-Naryn River) and has an annual flow of . \n\nThe largest tributaries of the Naryn River are: Kichi-Naryn River, At-Bashi River, On Archa River, Kadjyrty River, Chychkan River, Alabuga River, Kökömeren River etc.\n\nThe river contains many reservoirs which are important in the generation of hydroelectricity. The largest of these is the Toktogul Reservoir in Kyrgyzstan containing of water. Dams downstream of the Toktogul in Kyrgyzstan include: Kurpsai, Tash-Kumyr, Shamaldysai and Uch-Kurgansk. Upstream of Toktogul in Kyrgyzstan is the Kambarata-2 and At-Bashi Dams while the Kambarata-1 and Kambarata-3 are in planning stages. \n\nSome places along the river: Kyrgyzstan: Kara-Say (see Barskoon), Naryn Region, Naryn, Dostuk, Jalal-Abad Region, Kazarman, Toktogul Reservoir, Kara-Köl, Tash-Kumyr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300334", "title": "KPRR", "text": "KPRR\n\nKPRR (102.1 MHz \"Power 102 FM\"), is a commercial FM radio station in El Paso, Texas. The station is owned by iHeartMedia, Inc. and airs a rhythmic contemporary radio format. It offers a more broad-based direction in its playlist than most other rhythmic stations, with a mix of R&B/Hip-Hop, Dance, Hurban and Rhythmic Pop fare. KPRR has its studios and offices on North Mesa Street (Texas State Highway 20).\n\nKPRR broadcasts from a transmitter in the Franklin Mountains. Its signal covers parts of Texas, New Mexico and the Mexican state of Chihuahua, including Ciudad Juárez. KPRR's studios are located along Mesa Drive in West Central El Paso. KPRR is one of two contemporary hit stations in the El Paso-Juárez radio market, with 104.3 XHTO-FM as the other.\n\nKPRR broadcasts in the HD Radio format. Its HD2 signal carries a Rhythmic Oldies/Classic Hip Hop radio format known as \"Hot 93.5.\" It is also heard on 99 watt FM translator K228FH at 93.5 MHz.\n\nThe station signed on as KIZZ-FM on December 5, 1969. It was owned by Sunland Broadcasting Company and was the FM counterpart to AM 1150 KIZZ (now KHRO). KIZZ-FM was powered at 27,000 watts, a third of its current output.\n\nIn 1972, the call sign was changed to KLOZ. It called itself \"K102,\" and offered a country music format. Mesa Radio bought it in 1975, followed by Jalapeno Broadcasting Company in 1979.\n\nIn 1986, the station was acquired by Continental Broadcasting. In September of that year, it switched its call letters to become KPRR with a format patterned after popular Los Angeles rhythmic station KPWR. The move proved successful, with \"Power 102\" often leading the El Paso radio market in the ratings. \n\nSan Antonio-based Clear Channel Communications acquired KPRR in 1996. Clear Channel later became iHeartMedia, the current owner. \n\n"}
{"id": "2300349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300349", "title": "François Biltgen", "text": "François Biltgen\n\nFrançois Biltgen (born 28 September 1958 in Esch-sur-Alzette, Luxembourg) is a Luxembourgish politician, who served as Minister for Justice, Minister for Communications and the Media, and Minister for Religious Affairs, the Minister for the Civil Service and Administrative Reform, and the Minister for Higher Education and Research, in the government of Luxembourg until 2013.\n\nHe was born in Esch-sur-Alzette, in the south-western Luxembourg and studied law in Paris. In 1987, he was elected to the communal council of Esch-sur-Alzette, and in 1994 he was elected to the Chamber of Deputies as a Christian Social People's Party (CSV) candidate. He was elected as President of the CSV in 2003.\n\nAfter the elections which was held in June 2009, he was appointed the Minister of Justice, the Minister for the Civil Service and Administrative Reform, Minister for Higher Education and Research, Minister for Communications and Media as well as the Minister for Religious Affairs. In 2009, he also signed the coalition agreement to distribute ministerial portfolios between the CSV and the LSAP delegates.\n\nIn October 2013, he became a Judge at the European Court of Justice, replacing Jean-Jacques Kasel.\n\nBiltgen is married and he is the father of two children.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300352", "title": "Postern of Fate", "text": "Postern of Fate\n\nPostern of Fate is a work of detective fiction by Agatha Christie that was first published in the UK by the Collins Crime Club in October 1973 and in the US by Dodd, Mead and Company later in the same year. The UK edition retailed at £2.00 and the US edition at $6.95.\n\nThe book features her detectives Tommy and Tuppence Beresford and is the detectives' last appearance. It is the last novel Christie wrote, but not the last to be published as it was followed by two previously unpublished novels from the 1940s.\n\nIt is one of only four Christie novels not to have received an adaptation of any kind, the others being \"Death Comes as the End\", \"Destination Unknown\", and \"Passenger to Frankfurt\".\n\nThe title comes from the poem \"Gates of Damascus\" by James Elroy Flecker. The poem is also referenced in the short story \"The Gate of Baghdad\" in the 1934 collection \"Parker Pyne Investigates\".\n\nNow in their seventies (though the author never states their age clearly), Tommy and Tuppence move to a quiet English village, looking forward to a peaceful retirement. But, as they soon discover, their rambling old house holds secrets. Who is Mary Jordan? And why has someone left a code message in an old book about her 'unnatural' death? Once more, ingenuity and insight are called for as they are drawn into old mysteries and new dangers.\n\nMost critics remarked how noticeable Christie's advanced age is here. For example, the main characters Tommy and Tuppence, also of advanced age, seem to forget in one chapter what they discussed in the previous chapter. Some conversations seem to be repeated again and again, before any action takes place. Some puzzles which are obvious and easy to solve for the reader take chapters to be tackled by the main characters.\n\nMaurice Richardson in \"The Observer\" of 11 November 1973 was positive in his review: \"Now in their seventies, the Beresfords, that amateur detective couple of hers whom some of us found too sprightly for comfort, have acquired a Proustian complexity. A code message in an Edwardian children's book puts them on to the murder of a governess involved in a pre-1914 German spy case. Past and present go on interlocking impressively. Despite political naivety; this is a genuine tour de force with a star part for Hannibal, the Manchester Terrier.\"\n\nRobert Barnard wrote negatively that \"Postern of Fate\" was \"The last book Christie wrote. Best (and easily) forgotten.\"\n\nAccording to \"The Cambridge Guide to Women's Writing in English\", this novel is one of the \"execrable last novels\" in which Christie purportedly \"loses her grip altogether\".\n\nA Canadian study which compared the texts of a number of Christie novels indicated that her later works, including \"Postern of Fate\", showed a 30% decrease in vocabulary. This change, along with the use of indeterminate words and repetitiveness, are indicative of Alzheimer's disease, although Christie was never diagnosed with the disorder.\n\n\nThe book has many references to other Tommy and Tuppence books as well as cultural references.\nWe learn that Tuppence and Tommy's twin daughter Deborah is now mother of three children, that the adopted daughter Betty lives in Kenya and that the wife of Albert, the loyal valet, has recently died. Mr Robinson, the \"yellow, big man\" from \"Passenger to Frankfurt\" appears here, as do Colonel Pikeaway and Horsham, the latter posing undercover as a gardener.\n"}
{"id": "2300358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300358", "title": "Albert Schaufelberger", "text": "Albert Schaufelberger\n\nAlbert Arthur Schaufelberger (August 8, 1949 – May 25, 1983) was a Lieutenant Commander in the United States Navy who was assassinated in El Salvador.\n\nSchaufelberger was a graduate of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland, class of 1971 and was an avid (150 lb) American football and lacrosse player while in college. His father, Albert Arthur Schaufelberger (Senior), was a decorated fighter and bomber pilot during the Vietnam War.\n\nSchaufelberger was commissioned as an Ensign in the U.S. Navy on June 9, 1971. ENS Schaufelberger next attended Basic Underwater Demolition/SEAL (BUD/S) training with Class 65 at NAB Coronado, California, from August 1971 to March 1972, followed by service with Underwater Demolition Team TWELVE from March 1972 to June 1975. LT Schaufelberger's next assignment was as the Swimmer Delivery Vehicle (SDV) Platoon Commander with SEAL Team ONE at NAB Coronado from June 1975 to November 1976, and then as an SDV Instructor with BUD/S training at NAB Coronado from November 1976 to January 1979. He served as an Ordnance Officer, Platoon Commander and Operations Officer with SEAL Team ONE at Coronado from January 1979 to February 1981, and then attended the Spanish Language Course at the Defense Language Institute in Monterey, California, from February 1981 to February 1982.\n\nLieutenant Commander Schaufelberger was the senior U.S. Naval representative at the U.S. Military Group, El Salvador from August 1982 till he was killed in San Salvador on May 25, 1983. He was a United States Navy SEAL, second in command of the U.S. Military Group advising the Salvadoran Military on counter insurgency, special operations and weapons traffic interdiction operations. In addition, he was security chief for the 53 U.S. military advisors in the country at the time. Schaufelberger had responsibility, among other duties, for naval operations in the Gulf of Fonseca which were run out of the La Union naval base. It was at the La Union naval base where Schaufelberger allowed himself to be photographed for the last time several days before his assassination. Schaufelberger's death was the first of a U.S. military member in El Salvador following the October 1980 arrival in country of U.S. military advisors.\n\nAt approximately 6:30 pm on May 25, 1983, Schaufelberger was assassinated on the grounds of the Central American University in San Salvador. A group under the umbrella of the Farabundo Marti National Liberation Front (FMLN), the Central American Revolutionary Workers' Party (PRTC), is thought to have carried out the act.\n\nSchaufelberger had been dating the manager of a cooperative store, Consuelo Escalante Aguilera, for several months and developed a routine of picking her up at the same time and place. On May 25 he arrived and sounded the horn of his armored embassy-provided Ford Maverick, his signal to inform his date that he had arrived. Ms. Aguilera exited her office and observed what she believed to be a white Volkswagen microbus pull up and stop near Schaufelberger's car. Reportedly several individuals were involved with the assassination, with at least one firing through the open window of Schaufelberger's car. Schaufelberger's was shot four times in the head. Schaufelberger's car leaped forward, impacting a car directly in front of it. The assassins then jumped into their vehicle and escaped. Unfortunately for him, Schaufelberger had removed the bullet-resistant glass over the driver's-side window after the air conditioner in his vehicle had broken.\n\nSchaufelberger saw his role in El Salvador of preventing a communist takeover of the country for all of the people of El Salvador—not just those of means. He realized, however, that he might be a target of the insurgents, given the success of the weapon interdiction efforts. During his last discussion with journalists covering U.S.-advised Salvadoran military operations, Schaufelberger told those present that the insurgents \"know who I am, and where I live\". His house had apparently already received drive-by gunfire on a recent evening prior to the assassination.\n\nAlbert Schaufelberger's assassination was featured on the front cover of the June 6, 1983, edition of \"Newsweek\" magazine. The U.S. edition was headlined \"The First Casualty\" and the international edition \"Shooting to Kill\".\n\nSchaufelberger was photographed in uniform and interviewed by international media representatives (including Newsweek) one week before his death. Previous pictures of Schaufelberger had been taken by the Magnum Photo Agency in Paris for a syndicated feature story on the escalating U.S. military involvement in the region. For security reasons Schaufelberger appeared in those photos as a rear view only and in civilian clothes.\n\n\n\"Newsweek\", June 6, 1983, carried a detailed background of Albert Schaufelberger.\n"}
{"id": "2300362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300362", "title": "Wamos Air", "text": "Wamos Air\n\nWamos Air, formerly Pullmantur Air, is a Spanish airline headquartered in Madrid. It mostly operates leisure charter flights, several of them on behalf of sister company Pullmantur Cruises from its main base at Adolfo Suárez Madrid–Barajas Airport. , it is 81% owned by Springwater Capital and 19% owned by Royal Caribbean Cruises.\nThe British Government charted a Wamos Air 747 multiple times to repatriate British citizens in Wuhan, China and Japan during the COVID-19 pandemic.\n\nAs of December 2019, Wamos Air offers scheduled flights under its own brand name to the following destinations:\n\nAs of December 2019, the Wamos Air fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "2300364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300364", "title": "WEAU", "text": "WEAU\n\nWEAU, virtual channel 13 (UHF digital channel 38), is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Eau Claire, Wisconsin, United States, serving Western Wisconsin including the Chippewa Valley. The station is owned by Gray Television. WEAU's studios are located on South Hastings Way/US 53 Business in Altoona (with an Eau Claire postal address), and its transmitter is located north of Fairchild, along the Eau Claire–Clark county line.\n\nWestern Wisconsin is one of the few markets in the United States to receive NBC programming from multiple over-the-air affiliates as La Crosse is also served by W34FC-D (channel 34), a translator of KTTC (channel 10) from Rochester, Minnesota. This station broadcasts from a transmitter in La Crescent, Minnesota and provides over-the-air service of NBC to viewers in La Crosse unable to receive WEAU due to area topography. However, WEAU is considered the primary NBC affiliate for that area and is the only affiliate available on cable and satellite television providers.\n\nWEAU has a construction permit for a digital replacement translator licensed to La Crosse on UHF channel 30 from the WHLA-TV tower in La Crescent.\n\nWEAU-TV signed-on December 17, 1953 under the ownership of Central Broadcasting Company. This ownership group was led by a predecessor to Morgan Murphy Media and also included the \"Eau Claire Leader-Telegram\" along with WEAU radio (790 AM now WEAQ at 1150 AM, and 94.1 FM now WIAL). It has always been a primary NBC affiliate but initially carried programs from CBS, ABC, and DuMont. During the late-1950s, the station was also briefly affiliated with the NTA Film Network. One of the first well-known personalities on WEAU was \"Sheriff Bob\" Dawson who hosted a children's show during the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nThe station initially broadcast from a tower immediately behind the WEAU studios on South Hastings Way in Eau Claire. A new tower, approximately tall, was built in the same location in 1956 before an approximately tower was constructed near Fairchild in 1966. The tower in Eau Claire is now topped by the digital transmitter of rival ABC affiliate WQOW (channel 18).\n\nMorgan Murphy sold off WEAU radio in 1959; in 1962, it sold WEAU-TV to The Post Corporation of Appleton (Morgan Murphy would later purchase rival WKBT, channel 8). WEAU's departure from radio proved short-lived as The Post Corporation purchased Chippewa Falls radio station WAXX (1150 AM) in 1963, and two years later, established a new WEAU-FM at 100.7 (moving to 104.5 when the Fairchild tower was built) which largely simulcasted WAXX's country music format. WEAU-FM's call letters were switched to WAXX-FM in 1977, and in 1978, the country format was moved exclusively to WAXX-FM with the AM station becoming WAYY (which later moved to 790 AM in a swap with WEAQ).\n\nIn 1984, Racine-born George N. Gillett Jr. purchased the Post Corporation stations, including WEAU-TV, making it a sister station to Milwaukee's WITI for a short time. WAXX and WAYY were spun off to Central Communications at the same time, and in 1985, the two radio stations moved out of the WEAU building to a new facility behind its parking lot. Despite being under separate ownership, WEAU continued to provide weather forecasting services for WAXX and WAYY as well as other stations purchased by Central Communications (which included WEAU's original radio properties, WEAQ and WIAL, in addition to WECL and WDRK) until December 31, 2001. WEAU resumed providing weather services to those same six stations, now under the ownership of Maverick Media, on September 11, 2006.\n\nGillett began defaulting on some of his purchases in the late-1980s culminating in 1990 when he sold WEAU to Busse Broadcasting, owner of KOLN in Lincoln, Nebraska and KGIN in Grand Island, Nebraska (and at one point also owned WWMT in Kalamazoo, Michigan and KOKH-TV in Oklahoma City). In 1998, Gray Communications Systems (which was subsequently renamed Gray Television) and Cosmos Broadcasting (the broadcasting division of The Liberty Corporation which has since been merged into Raycom Media) teamed up to purchase the Busse stations with WEAU going to Cosmos and KOLN/KGIN going to Gray. Cosmos then traded WEAU back to Gray in exchange for WALB (Gray's original flagship station) in Albany, Georgia (that station returned to Gray in 2019 after WALB's last owner Raycom Media merged with Gray). Technology was the highlight of the following decade as WEAU-DT, which originally transmitted on channel 39, signed-on April 30, 2002 with the digital transmitter located at the top of the tower in Fairchild.\n\nThe station turned off its analog transmitter at 12:30 p.m. on February 16, 2009. At around 1 o'clock, WEAU's digital signal relocated from channel 39 to channel 13. On October 1, 2012, WEAU dropped the -TV suffix from its call sign. The transmission tower for WEAU was the tallest structure in the state of Wisconsin topping out at , or over taller than the Empire State Building. The tower was shared with former sister radio station WAXX. On March 22, 2011, this tower collapsed during an intense winter storm that brought a mixture of terrible weather conditions. A replacement tower was completed by December 15, 2011 and broadcasts resumed on UHF channel 38 in late-December.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nSyndicated programing on WEAU includes \"Wheel of Fortune\", \"Jeopardy!\", \"Daily Mail TV\", and \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", among others.\n\nWEAU tends to focus its local news coverage on Eau Claire and the Chippewa Valley, with a secondary focus on La Crosse.\n\nWEAU constructed its own Doppler weather radar in 1979, becoming the first television station in the market to have its own device and no longer rely on delayed data from the National Weather Service. It premiered a 5 o'clock weeknight newscast on September 14, 1981. A satellite truck to provide live remote broadcasts came into use by 1983. The station was met with tragedy in September 1991 when weeknight news anchor Cindy Schott died unexpectedly. Her death was later the subject of a story on \"Real Life with Jane Pauley\" and \"Dateline NBC\". WEAU resorted to a solo anchor format for the 6 and 10 p.m. news (John Froyd) following Schott's death but returned to a co-anchor format for their weeknight 10 o'clock program (Pat Kreitlow and Judy Clark) in August 1998 upon Froyd's retirement.\n\nOn August 28, 2006, WEAU entered into a news share agreement with Fox affiliates WLAX/WEUX (then owned by Grant Broadcasting System II). The arrangement resulted in those stations airing a weeknight prime time newscast produced by this NBC outlet. Known as \"Fox 25/48 News at 9\", the half-hour broadcast would eventually be expanded to weekends starting January 20, 2007.\n\nWLAX/WEUX features a majority of WEAU's on-air team except for maintaining a separate weeknight meteorologist and weekend news anchor (although they can fill-in on the NBC outlet when needed). \"Fox 25/48 News at 9\" originates from a secondary set at WEAU's studios and is fed to the WLAX/WEUX facility through a fiber-optic link. On August 5, 2011, WEAU upgraded its newscasts to high definition level. However, the WLAX/WEUX newscasts were not included in the change because they were produced from a secondary set that lacked HD cameras. As of fall 2015, \"Fox 25/48 News\" is broadcast in high definition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300370", "title": "Polo wraps", "text": "Polo wraps\n\nPolo wraps are bandage materials, usually made of fleece, for a horse's legs. They can be quite stretchy compared to other bandaging materials, and are used mainly for protection during ridden work, longeing, and turnout. \n\nPolo wraps can be used for many tasks and disciplines: they protect against minor scrapes and bruises and help prevent irritation from sand or arena footing. Usually, polos are used without any padding underneath. Some common activities polo wraps are used in include: \n\nThere are several different ways to apply a polo wrap. The methods differ primarily in the location the wrapping is begun. Some people begin at the top of the leg and wrap down and then back up; others begin at the middle of the leg and wrap first one half and then the other. Wrapping styles also differ in whether the wrap extends, sling-like, beneath the fetlock joint. While the amount of support the sling affords the tendons and ligaments is debatable, it does provide a limited amount of protection to the joint from scrapes, bruises, and accidental overstep with the hind legs (\"overreaching\").\n\nNo matter how the wrap is applied, the tension in the wrap should be as uniform as possible across the entire leg. Uneven pressure may cause damage to tendons. Additionally, the pressure on one leg should be comparable to the pressure on leg on the other side; otherwise gait abnormalities may result. Conventional wisdom holds that because no two people wrap with exactly the same tension, the same person should wrap the right and left legs.\n\nPolos can be used for a horse who cannot wear boots (for example, a horse may be sensitive to neoprene, or have minor cuts on his leg that would be rubbed if a boot were worn). Polo wraps are often chosen for a horse whose legs are blemished with significant scar tissue that would prevent a boot from fitting properly. Unlike boots, polos conform perfectly to any leg, and may also be used on horses and ponies of any size, depending on the length. Many riders prefer polos due to the 'cleaner' look they provide. Lastly, polos usually cover a greater area of the leg than boots, and if the groom is experienced, may be customized to provide slightly more protection in one area of the leg.\n\nPerhaps the most notable disadvantage of polo wraps is their close proximity to the horse's tendons and ligaments; incorrect application (uneven distribution of tension, too tight, etc.) can damage the tendons. Polo wraps only stay on the leg as well as they are put on; if wrapped too loosely or the velcro is weak, you may be creating a potentially dangerous situation.\n\nPolos are not suitable for use in potentially wet conditions (such as cross-country riding or riding through puddles), as they absorb water and become very heavy and sag. Also, polos are more time-consuming to apply than boots and need to be washed frequently to remove irritants like dried sweat or sand. Polos can also be pulled down and tighten around the tendons if a horse were to step on himself while wearing them.\n\nExercise bandages are a good alternative if the horse needs more protection and support. Brushing boots and galloping boots provide protection, and boots with neoprene can also provide support to the tendons and ligaments. \n\n"}
{"id": "2300373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300373", "title": "Kokhav Ya'ir", "text": "Kokhav Ya'ir\n\nKokhav Ya'ir–Tzur Yig'al (, also Kochav Yair–Tzur Yigal) is a town (local council) in the Central District of Israel. Kokhav Ya'ir and the neighboring town of Tzur Yig'al () merged in November 2003. In it had a population of .\n\nKokhav Ya'ir was established in 1981 by 15 families living in temporary quarters. Two years later, work began on infrastructure for a permanent town. In 1986, 550 families moved into permanent housing and the town was officially founded. Tzur Yig'al was founded in 1991, with the first families moving into permanent homes in the summer of 1994.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir (literally \"Ya'ir's star\") was named for Avraham Stern, who went by the alias Ya'ir. He was the founder and leader of the Lehi group, a militant Jewish underground active during the British Mandate of Palestine. \"Stern\" is also German for \"star.\" Tzur Yig'al (literally \"Yig'al's rock\") was named for Israeli Knesset member Yigal Cohen.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir is exclusively Jewish, with a high income level. Kokhav Yair is a secular community with a religious minority. Religious tensions are virtually non-existent. Residents from English speaking countries comprise approximately 20% of the population.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir is located at lat. 32° 00' N, long. 35° 00' E, approximately north-north-east of the city of Kfar Saba and 95 meters above sea level. Neighboring the municipality on its south-west border is kibbutz Eyal, approximately north-west is the Israeli Arab city of Tira and approximately south is the Palestinian Authority governed city of Qalqilyah.\n\nThe Sapir Lookout in Kokhav Ya'ir attracts bird watchers who come to observe the semi-annual migration of many species of birds.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir currently has four schools, two secular elementary schools ('Keshet' and 'Nof Tzurim'), one religious elementary school ('Dekel') and one middle school ('Ramon', named after the Astronaut Ilan Ramon). After finishing middle school students are usually directed to highschools in Ra'anana and Kfar Saba and Herzliya.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir's local basketball team, Elitzur Kokhav Ya'ir, has been a member of the Israel National Basketball League since 2008.\n\nKokhav Ya'ir's country club from 2010 to 2017 refused membership to “Israeli Arabs” (i.e. Palestinians with Israeli citizenship). After a petition from Tira, an Arab village nearby, the club decided to “sanitize” its racist policy by restricting membership to Kochav Yair–Tzur Yig'al's residents. A member of the local council said: “What drives people from the club isn’t the price, but the Arabs. We came to live in a community. Whether we’re racist or not, it doesn’t matter. The fact is that residents are leaving the community center because of the Arab children. It’s not clear why we can’t express our opinion.” The club is partially funded by the Israeli government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300375", "title": "William Lashly", "text": "William Lashly\n\nWilliam Lashly (25 December 1867 – 12 June 1940) was a Royal Navy seaman who served as lead stoker on both the \"Discovery\" expedition and the \"Terra Nova\" expedition to Antarctica, for which he was awarded the Polar Medal. Lashly was also recognised with the Albert Medal for playing a key role in saving the life of a comrade on the second of the two expeditions.\n\nThe son of a farm worker, Lashly was born in Hambledon, Hampshire, a village near Portsmouth, England. At the time he joined Scott's \"Discovery\" expedition in 1901, he was a 33-year-old leading stoker in the Royal Navy, serving on . On this expedition, Lashly proved a success and was a member of Scott's \"Farthest West\" party exploring Victoria Land in 1903.\n\nA teetotaller and non-smoker, he was quiet and strong, good-natured, dependable and acknowledged by Reginald Skelton as 'the best man far and away in the ship'. Before joining Scott's next Antarctic expedition in 1910, he served as an instructor at the Royal Naval College, Osborne, on the Isle of Wight.\n\nOn Scott's second expedition in 1911–1913, Lashly was initially in charge of one of the expedition's two motor sledges which were to haul supplies southward in support of the polar party. However, the sledges quickly broke down, and the motor party had to switch to man-hauling the supplies.\n\nOn 4 January 1912, along with Lieutenant Edward Evans and Tom Crean, he was a member of the last support party to be sent back by Scott on his way to the pole. During the return journey, Evans became seriously ill with scurvy, and on 11 February, collapsed, unable to walk any further. Still from Hut Point camp and safety, he tried to persuade Lashly and Crean to leave him to save themselves, but they refused.\n\nStrapping him onto the sledge, they pulled him for days until with only one to two days' food rations left, but still four or five days' sledge pulling to do, they had to stop. Lashly then stayed with Evans in the tent to nurse him while Crean walked the remaining alone in 18 hours to reach Hut Point camp, where he was able to fetch help. Extracts from Lashly's polar journals, chronicling his tribulations with the motor sledges and the return journey with Evans, were included in Apsley Cherry-Garrard's book, \"The Worst Journey in the World\". Both Lashly and Crean received the Albert Medal for saving Evans' life.\n\nAfter returning from the Antarctic, Lashly retired from the Royal Navy with a pension, but promptly joined the reserves and served in World War I on and . Later he served as a customs officer in Cardiff. Upon his retirement in 1932, he returned to Hambledon where he lived in a house he called \"Minna Bluff\", after one of the landmarks on the road to the South Pole. Lashly died on 12 June 1940.\n\nIn 1969, Lashly's diaries were edited and published by A. R. Ellis as \"Under Scott's Command: Lashly's Antarctic Diaries\". It provides insight into both the \"Discovery\" and \"Terra Nova\" expeditions from the perspective of one of the men rather than the more common accounts published by officers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300378", "title": "1907 in archaeology", "text": "1907 in archaeology\n\nThe year 1907 in archaeology:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300380", "title": "Clive Merrison", "text": "Clive Merrison\n\nClive Merrison (born 15 September 1945, Tenby, Pembrokeshire, Wales) is a Welsh actor of film, television, stage and radio. He trained at Rose Bruford College. He is best known for his long running BBC Radio portrayal of Sherlock Holmes, having played the part over 75 times (from 1989-1998 and again from 2002, 2004, 2008-10).\n\nHe has made numerous television appearances. He appeared as Boris Savinkov the White Russian commander in the series \"\" (1983) starring Sam Neill as Reilly. He has twice appeared in supporting roles in \"Doctor Who\", in \"The Tomb of the Cybermen\" (1967) and \"Paradise Towers\" (1987). He has also appeared in \"Yes, Prime Minister\", \"Kit Curran\", \"The Labours of Erica\", \"Bergerac\", \"Drop the Dead Donkey\", \"Time Riders\", \"Pie in the Sky\", \"The Tomorrow People\", \"Mortimer's Law\", \"The Bill\", \"Believe Nothing\", \"Midsomer Murders\", \"Foyle's War\", \"Lewis\" and \"The Brief\". He played Mark's father in the 2010 \"Peep Show\" Christmas special, and also played Clement Attlee in the 2012 TV movie \"Bert and Dickie\". He has also done voice work as a guest appearance in the children's animated series \"\" and \"\".\n\nHe portrayed Antonin Artaud in the Rome and London premieres of Charles Marowitz's play, \"Artaud at Rodez\".\nHe also portrayed the headmaster in the original National Theatre and Broadway productions of Alan Bennett's hit play, \"The History Boys\" which went on to win 6 Tony Awards and an Oliver for \"Best New Play\".\nMerrison was a member of Laurence Olivier's National Theatre Company in the 1970s and the Royal Shakespeare Company, at the Royal Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford-on-Avon.\n\nMerrison played the onscreen father of Kate Winslet in the 1994 film \"Heavenly Creatures\", directed by Peter Jackson, and the traditionalist headmaster in Alan Bennett's \"The History Boys\", filmed in 2006. He was the forger in the 1981 film \"Escape to Victory\" and also played Thaddeus Sholto in \"The Sign of Four\" (1983), Desmond Fairchild in \"An Awfully Big Adventure\" (1995) and the lawyer in \"Saving Grace\" (2000). His other film credits included roles in \"Henry VIII and His Six Wives\" (1972), \"Riddles of the Sphinx\" (1977), \"Coming Out of the Ice\" (1982), the Clint Eastwood film \"Firefox\" (1982), \"The English Patient\" (1996), \"True Blue\" (1996), \"Photographing Fairies\" (1997), \"Janice Beard\" (1999) and \"Pandaemonium\" (2000).\n\nFrom 5 November 1989 to 5 July 1998 he played the lead role of Sherlock Holmes on radio in a series of BBC 4 dramatisations, with Michael Williams as Dr. Watson. Later, with Andrew Sachs as Watson, Merrison continued to play Holmes in the Bert Coules-scripted pastiche series \"The Further Adventures of Sherlock Holmes\", the first series of which was broadcast in 2002, the second in 2004, the third in 2008-9 and the fourth in 2010. He is the first actor to have played Holmes in adaptations of every single Conan Doyle short story and novel about the character.\n\nMerrison has also appeared in other BBC radio series and plays, including \"Groosham Grange\"; \"Burn the Aeneid!\" by Martyn Wade; \"One Winter's Afternoon\"; \"Sunday at Sant' Agata\" (in which he played Giuseppe Verdi); the 2003 adaptation of John Wyndham's \"The Midwich Cuckoos\", in which he played Prof. Gordon Zellaby; \"Mr. Standfast\"; the 2011 adaptation of \"A Tale of Two Cities\" (in which he played the Marquis St. Evremonde); the 2006 radio adaptation of \"The History Boys\" (in which he played \"The Headmaster\", a role he repeated on film); and \"Strangers and Brothers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300383", "title": "Regan MacNeil", "text": "Regan MacNeil\n\nRegan Teresa MacNeil (born April 6, 1959) is a fictional character from William Peter Blatty's horror novel and film adaptation \"The Exorcist\" as a supporting character and its first sequel, \"\", and the sequel television series \"The Exorcist\" as one of the main protagonists in season one. She was portrayed by Linda Blair in both films and by Geena Davis in the television series.\n\nRegan MacNeil is a 12-year-old girl and the daughter of actress Chris MacNeil. Regan is caught between her mother's grueling working schedule and the fact that her parents are in the process of an acrimonious divorce (her father is in Europe and is not seen in the movie).\n\nShe is described as shy, even different, and it is not within her nature to behave aggressively. She is devoted to her mother, making clay animals as gifts for her and leaving a rose at her place at the kitchen table each morning. Chris is determined to be a good mother, spending all her off days with her. Because she is an atheist, she does not teach Regan about religion, but when Regan has questions about God, Chris tries to answer reassuringly.\n\nEven though Chris knows Regan very well, it takes her some time to realize that Regan's bizarre changes are not neurological. As soon as she accepts the idea of possession, she consults Fr. Karras and begs him to evaluate Regan for an exorcism. While Karras is initially skeptical, he becomes convinced of her possession and immediately calls for an exorcism.\n\nKarras and Father Merrin perform an exorcism and succeed in exorcising the demon, albeit at the cost of their own lives. Regan retains no memory of her possession. Shortly afterwards, Chris and Regan decide to move. On the day of the move, Father Dyer visits their home and, upon seeing his clerical collar, Regan embraces him, implying she has not totally lost her memory.\n\nIn the sequel \"\", which takes place four years after the events in \"The Exorcist\", Regan is 16 years old, living in New York City and undergoing psychiatric therapy, claiming to remember nothing about her plight in Washington, D.C. while her psychiatrist believes her memories are only buried or repressed. As the story progresses, Regan is revealed to have psychic healing powers (the reason why the demon attacked her previously).\n\nFor \"The Exorcist III\", Carolco Pictures had the idea of a grown up Regan who gives birth to possessed twins but it was abandoned and the story was switched to Blatty's novel \"Legion\" instead. John Carpenter was asked to direct \"The Exorcist III\", but backed out when he realized William Peter Blatty really wanted to direct himself and because of creative differences, however they remained friends.\n\nRegan McNeil appears in the television series \"The Exorcist\". As an adult she changed her name to Angela Rance to escape the demons, but they find her again and attack her family, possessing her younger daughter Casey; Angela/Regan makes a deal with Pazuzu to allow herself to become repossessed in order to save Casey's life. While possessing her, Pazuzu seizes the opportunity to murder her mother Chris. Angela/Regan, with the help of the priests Tomas Ortega and Marcus Keane, finds the strength to once again evict the demon from her body and soul, but he retaliates by breaking her back in punishment, rendering her wheelchair-bound but still alive.\n\nActress/comedian April Winchell states that she was seriously considered for the role until she developed pyelonephritis, which caused her to be hospitalized and ultimately taken out of consideration. Pamelyn Ferdin was a candidate for the role, but the producers may have felt she was too well-known. Denise Nickerson was also considered and offered the role, but her parents rejected it on her behalf after reading the film's script.\n\nRegan MacNeil appears in the television series \"The Exorcist\" portrayed by Geena Davis.\n\nIn the \"Supernatural\" season 2 episode \"The Usual Suspects\", Linda Blair guest stars as a police detective helping them against an apparent vengeful spirit. At the end of the episode, Dean comments that Linda's character looks familiar and Dean suddenly craves pea soup.\n\nIn the video game \"The Maze\" (also known as \"The Scary Maze Game\") by developer Jeremy Winterrowd, an image of Regan's possessed face is used as a jump scare in the final level.\n\nNotes\n\nCitations\n\n"}
{"id": "2300397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300397", "title": "Chokeslam", "text": "Chokeslam\n\nA chokeslam is a type of body slam in professional wrestling, in which a wrestler grasps an opponent's neck, lifts them up, and slams them to the mat. It is common in televised wrestling because it is simple and relatively safe, yet looks powerful on camera. The chokeslam is typically used as a finisher by large wrestlers, further enhancing its perception as a powerful maneuver. This maneuver can be more damaging if the victim is slammed into an object, such as a table, steel chair, or garbage can. It is a common move performed by taller and bigger wrestlers.\n\nThe most common variety of chokeslam is performed with a single-handed choke. The wrestler places their free hand behind the opponent's back or hooks the trunks to help turn them horizontally for the throw. Although a chokeslam begins with a \"choke\", it is not usually considered to be an illegal move. The single arm choke that normally precedes a chokeslam is known as a goozle.\n\nThe chokeslam was innovated by Paul Heyman for use by the wrestler 911, though one of the earliest accounts of the move dates back to a 19th-century recounting that describes Abraham Lincoln (himself a wrestler in his youth) using a technique very similar in description. It is often used by large, powerful wrestlers such as The Undertaker, Kane, The Big Show, Abyss, The Great Khali, Vader and Braun Strowman. This is because a larger, taller wrestler will be able to deliver a much higher, more impressive chokeslam than most smaller wrestlers. Their height and/or larger frames can also give them extra time to correct a botch if something goes wrong. However, some smaller wrestlers and even female performers have used the chokeslam, including Lacey Von Erich, The Hurricane, among others.\n\nIn this elevated chokeslam, innovated by Akira Taue, the wrestler stands behind the opponent, puts his head under one of the opponent's arms, and lifts them onto his shoulder. The wrestler then pushes the opponent upwards, turns 180°, and grabs hold of the falling enemy's throat, driving them down to the mat back first.\n\nThe wrestler performing the move stands in front of and slightly to the left of the opponent receiving it. The wrestler then reaches out and grabs the opponent's throat and trunks, and lifts him or her in the air as though the wrestler is about to deliver a chokeslam. However, as the wrestler brings the opponent back down to the mat the wrestler kneels, slamming the other wrestler's back onto his or her extended knee. This move is popularly known as a chokebreaker/choke breaker, which is a portmanteau of this move's technical name.\n\nWhen two wrestlers execute a chokeslam on a single opponent at the same time it is referred to as a double chokeslam. Due to convenience of wording, a double chokeslam can also refer to two chokeslams being performed by a single wrestler on two opponents at the same time (i.e. single person double chokeslam), and occasionally in a tag team match where each member of one team will chokeslam a member of the opposing team (i.e. simultaneous / stereo chokeslams) which can also be referred to as stereo chokeslams.\n\nThe traditional version is also referred to as a double spinebuster/double front slam as the action of lifting an opponent up and throwing them down are much the same, though the spinebuster and front slam are more common on a charging opponent.\n\nLike the vertical suplex chokeslam, but in this variant, the attacking wrestler puts the opponent in a powerbomb position and lifts them up in an inverted powerbomb. The wrestler moves his arm from around the opponent's neck, grabbing hold of their throat. The wrestler then slams the opponent down to the mat back first.\n\nAlso known as a Leg hook chokeslam, or the \"Sky High Chokeslam\", as dubbed by Vader, the attacker starts out by lifting the opponent's left or right leg off the ground and tucks it under or hooks it over their arm while using whichever free hand to grab the opponent's neck. Then, the attacker lifts the opponent into the air and slams the opponent down to the mat. The move can also be used as a reversal from when the opponent tries some form of kick only to have the attacker catch and hold on to the leg setting up the move from there. A sitting version and a kneeling version are also possible.\n\nA very common variation, usually performed by a larger wrestler to a smaller one, this move sees the usual execution of the chokeslam done with just one hand lifted from the throat without the support of the other hand that usually goes on the back. The Big Show, Kane, and The Undertaker frequently perform this. The Big Show invented the kneeling chokeslam during his time in WCW under the name The Giant from 1995-1999.\n\nThe attacking fighter grabs hold of an opponent's neck with both hands, one on the front, and one on the back. The arm that has the hand on the back of the neck may hook the opponent's arm. The wrestler then lifts the opponent up, releases the hand holding the front of the opponent's neck, and pushes forward and slams the opponent to the mat face first with the other hand. This is used mainly by Matt Morgan and Braun Strowman.\n\nIn this variation the attacking wrestler grabs the opponent's throat with one hand and grabs the opponent's abdomen with his free hand, then the attacking wrestler lifts the opponent over their head and then slams the opponent similar to a vertical suplex chokeslam.\n\nThis variation of a chokeslam is similar to an ordinary chokeslam, however, instead of the wrestler remaining standing, the wrestler falls into a seated position while forcing the opponent back-first into the mat.\n\nThis move sees a wrestler first grasp an opponent's neck with both hands, then lifting them up and choking them before then throwing the opponent back down to the mat usually after choking out his opponent. A falling version of this move can see the attacking wrestler fall forward to the mat while keeping their arms extended but will more often see the wrestler fall into a seated position or a kneeling position, The Great Khali used this.\n\nIn this elevated chokeslam, innovated by Akira Taue, the wrestler grabs a front facelock on the opponent and wraps their arm over the wrestlers neck or body. The wrestler then lifts the opponent upside down, as in a vertical suplex. The wrestler moves his arm from around the opponent's neck, grabbing hold of their throat. The wrestler then slams the opponent down to the mat back first.\n"}
{"id": "2300408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300408", "title": "Air Post", "text": "Air Post\n\nAir Post was a cargo airline based in Auckland, New Zealand. It operated night postal services for New Zealand Post in a joint venture agreement with Airwork, as well as operating ad hoc charter services. Its main base was located at Auckland International Airport.\n\nThe airline was established in 1990 and was owned by Airwork (50%) and New Zealand Post (50%).\nFrom 2007 all flights were operated solely by Airwork Ltd on behalf of New Zealand Post.\n\nThe Air Post fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n"}
{"id": "2300410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300410", "title": "Ynys Benlas", "text": "Ynys Benlas\n\nYnys Benlas is a small islet situated in the Inland Sea (Welsh: \"Y Lasinwen\") between Anglesey and Holy Island. It measures approximately 65 metres (east-west) by 35 metres (north-south) at low tide and covers about 0.2 hectares.\n\nIts name translates from the Welsh for \"blue top island\", which is thought to derive from the fact that bluebells apparently flourished on it. Late nineteenth century Ordnance survey maps refer to the islet as Ynys Henlas, which translates as \"old blue island\"\n\nAccording to the \"Archaeological Journal\" (1844), the islet (referred to as Ben Las in the Journal) may have been an ancient signal hill.\n"}
{"id": "2300415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300415", "title": "Pinto horse", "text": "Pinto horse\n\nA pinto horse has a coat color that consists of large patches of white and any other color. The distinction between \"pinto\" and \"solid\" can be tenuous, as so-called \"solid\" horses frequently have areas of white hair. Various cultures throughout history appear to have selectively bred for pinto patterns.\n\nMany breeds of horses carry pinto patterns. Pinto coloring, known simply as \"coloured\" in nations using British English, is the most popular in the United States. While pinto colored horses are not considered as a \"breed,\" several competing color breed registries have formed to encourage the breeding of pinto colored horses. The word \"paint\" is sometimes used to describe pinto horses but today, it is specifically used for the American Paint Horse; a pinto colored horse with identifiable American Quarter Horse or Thoroughbred bloodlines. \n\nPinto patterns are visually and genetically distinct from the leopard complex spotting patterns characteristic of horse breeds such as the Appaloosa. Breeders who select for color are often careful not to cross the two patterns, and registries that include spotting color preferences often will refuse registration to horses that exhibit characteristics of the \"wrong\" pattern.\n\nThe word \"pinto\" is Spanish for 'painted', and also 'dappled' or 'spotted'.\n\nWhile pinto coloration has yet to be identified as a wildtype by DNA studies or seen in cave art predating horse domestication, images from pottery and other art of ancient antiquity show horses with flashy spotted patterns, indicating that they may have been desirable traits and selectively bred for. Images of spotted horses appear in the art of Ancient Egypt, and archaeologists have found evidence of horses with spotted coat patterns on the Russian steppes before the rise of the Roman Empire. Later, spotted horses were among those brought to the Americas by the Conquistadors.\n\nBy the 17th century in Europe, spotted horses were quite fashionable, though when the fad ended, large numbers of newly-unsellable horses were shipped to the Americas, some of which were sold while others were simply turned loose to run wild. The color became popular, particularly among Native Americans, and was specifically bred for in the United States, which now has the greatest number of pinto horses in the world.\n\nThere are a number of words which describe the various color and spotting patterns of pinto horses. Essentially, a pinto horse is genetically created when an allele for a spotting pattern is present. The genes that create the underlying base coat color are not related to the genes that create white spotting. The precise mechanisms that create spotting are not all fully understood, but those that are known often have human parallels, such as piebaldism. What horse terminology describes as \"pinto\" or \"coloured\" has been called leucism or \"partial albinism\" by pigment researchers. Common terms for describing different types of pinto horses include:\n\n\n\n\nA pinto differs from a \"Paint\" solely by breeding. Horses with pinto coloring and verifiable pedigrees tracing to Quarter Horses or Thoroughbreds have been named the American Paint Horse, and are recorded in a separate registry, the American Paint Horse Association. While a pinto may be of any breed or combination of breeds, and some registries for pintos may have additional restrictions (some do not register draft horses or mules, for example), a horse that is registered as an American Paint Horse must have at least one parent recorded with the APHA and both parents must be only of registered American Quarter Horse, American Paint Horse, or Thoroughbred bloodlines. Therefore, most Paint horses may also be registered as pintos, but not all pintos are qualified to be registered as Paints.\n\nThus, while it is always correct to refer to a horse with a non-leopard spot pattern as a pinto, a spotted horse should only be called a Paint if its ancestry is known or if it displays conformation that is clearly akin to that of an American Quarter Horse. A leopard spotted horse is usually called an Appaloosa, whether it is a registered Appaloosa or not. However, \"paint\" or \"painted\" was also an archaic word used by 19th century writers for assorted spotted horses bred by various Plains Indian tribes and thus is occasionally used in this context when describing all types of spotted Mustangs.\n\nThere are a number of color breed registries that encourage the breeding of pinto-colored horses, with varying registration requirements. On one hand, the Pinto Horse Association of America (PtHA) considers pinto horses recorded in their registry as a true breed and accepts solid-colored offspring of registered pinto parents as breeding stock, though with strict requirements for full registration. The less restrictive organizations allow registration of a horse of any breed or combination of breeds with as little as three square inches of white above the knees or hocks, not including facial markings. Some pinto registries do not accept animals with draft horse or mule breeding, though others do. None accept horses with the genetically distinct Appaloosa pattern, produced by genes in the leopard complex, and the Appaloosa registry in turn does not accept animals with pinto patterns. \n\nMany breed registries do not, or at some point in the past did not, accept \"cropout\" horses with spots or \"excess\" white for registration, believing that such animals were likely to be crossbreds, or due to a fear of producing lethal white foals. This exclusion of offspring from pedigreed parents led to the formation not only of the American Paint Horse Association, but also other pinto registries as well. Among the breeds that excluded such horses were the Arabian horse and American Quarter Horse registries. However, modern DNA testing has revealed that some breeds do possess genes for spotting patterns, such as a non-SB-1 sabino pattern in Arabians, and sabino, overo, and tobiano in Quarter Horses. Therefore, these registries have modified their rules, allowing horses with extra white, if parentage is verified through DNA testing, to be registered. On the other hand, the Jockey Club's Thoroughbred registry still does not officially recognize pinto as a registerable color, though they do allow white body spots to be recorded under the category of markings. The Welsh Pony and Cob Society of the UK also does not accept \"piebald\" or \"skewbald\" horses for registration.\n\nAs noted in the description of patterns, \"above,\" the frame gene is associated with a condition called lethal white syndrome or \"lethal white overo\". However, of the overo family of patterns, only frame is associated with lethal white. Also, some horses that do not visually appear to be frame patterned still do carry the gene. However, if a foal is born homozygous for the gene, it dies shortly after birth. This gene can be detected by DNA testing, and breeders can now avoid breeding two carrier horses to one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300421", "title": "Irit Ziffer", "text": "Irit Ziffer\n\nIrit Ziffer (born 1954) is an Israeli archaeologist and art historian.\n\nIrit Margit Ziffer was born in Tel Aviv. She is the curator of the Ceramics and Copper (Hebrew: Nehushtán) pavilions of the Eretz Israel Museum in Tel Aviv.\n\nHer field of expertise is symbols and their meanings in ancient art, especially the way they were used by political powers.\n"}
{"id": "2300422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300422", "title": "In a Sentimental Mood", "text": "In a Sentimental Mood\n\n\"In a Sentimental Mood\" is a jazz composition by Duke Ellington. He composed the piece in 1935 and recorded it with his orchestra during the same year. Lyrics were written by Manny Kurtz; Ellington's manager Irving Mills gave himself a percentage of the publishing, so the song was credited to all three. Other popular versions in 1935/36 were by Benny Goodman and by Mills Blue Rhythm Band. \n\nAccording to Ellington, the song was born in Durham, North Carolina. \"We had played a big dance in a tobacco warehouse, and afterwards a friend of mine, an executive in the North Carolina Mutual Insurance Company, threw a party for Amy. I was playing piano when another one of our friends had some trouble with two chicks. To pacify them, I composed this there and then, with one chick standing on each side of the piano.\" The recording featured solos by Otto Hardwicke, Harry Carney, Lawrence Brown, and Rex Stewart.\n\nEllington recorded a version with John Coltrane which appears on \"Duke Ellington and John Coltrane\" (1963) and \"Coltrane for Lovers\" (2001). The original was recorded in F major, starting on D minor and with the bridge in Db major. But the version Ellington and Coltrane version was performed in Bb minor or D-flat major, with an interlude in A major.\n\n\nIn the Netherlands, the chords at the beginning are a well-known part of the song since the 1960s due to its use as the theme of Simon Carmiggelt, one of the country's most famous writers, when he was reading his columns on national television.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300423", "title": "Konami Collector's Series: Arcade Advanced", "text": "Konami Collector's Series: Arcade Advanced\n\nKonami Collector's Series: Arcade Advanced, known in Europe as Konami Collector's Series: Arcade Classics, is a compilation video game created by Konami. It was first released on March 22, 2002 for the Game Boy Advance. A version was also released as a plug & play by Majesco Entertainment.\n\n\"Arcade Advanced\" is a compilation of six popular Konami games from the 1980s: \"Rush'n Attack\", \"Frogger\", \"Gyruss\", \"Time Pilot\", \"Scramble\", and \"Yie Ar Kung-Fu\". The games themselves are very accurate ports, with some minor exceptions. Four of the six games feature a two player mode which can be played both with and without a second cartridge,but having a second cartridge offers additional gameplay benefits. The famous Konami Code can also be used to enhance each of the games.\n\nFrogger is ported accurately except for the title screen theme song (in order to avoid copyright problems for using the children's song \"Inu no Omawarisan\"), and the score and lives display. It has a two player mode with a second orange frog that uses updated graphics. These graphics can be unlocked in the single player mode of Frogger by entering the Konami code at the title screen. Also the \"skull and crossbones\" symbol when the frog died have been shorten to a half-second, making it hard to see.\n\nScramble is ported accurately except the score and lives display has been altered and the Konami code allows for updated graphics, the choice of three ships with different abilities and music during gameplay. There is no two player mode.\n\nGyruss is ported accurately except the score and lives display has been altered and the Konami code allows the player to play three additional very difficult stages of the game in a black hole and unlock a permanent double ship afterwards for the rest of the game.\n\nTime Pilot is ported accurately except the score and lives display has been altered, and entering the Konami code allows for a sixth era to be playable at the end of each cycle through time called 1,000,000,000 BC in which the player must shoot pterodactyls. The game can shoot normally after entering the Konami code but it is also possible to hold down the fire button and after a pause the ship will start to shoot infinite bullets without having to press the fire button over and over again. There is also a two player mode where the players play on separate fields and try to rack up the highest score. If the two player mode is played with one cartridge, enemies appear in groups of three; if it is played with two enemies appear in groups of five.\n\nYie Ar Kung-Fu is ported accurately except the score and graphics display is altered, there are no voice samples, the hit detection is improved, and the Konami code can be used to fight two extra fighters in a third gauntlet that is called Hot Fighting History, the same as the first Gauntlet but features a new background in a bamboo forest. There is a two player vs mode which presumably allows for gameplay as all of the fighters, even Feedle, and if playing with one cartridge only one background can be used but if playing with two cartridges both (or all three if the Konami code is inputted) can be used.\n\nRush'n Attack is ported accurately except the score and lives display has been altered, the A button is used to jump (though up is still used to climb ladders) and the Konami code unlocks versions of the two stages exclusive to the Family Computer version. These stages have new graphics on par with the arcade game and their backgrounds are of better quality. However the biggest change is the addition of a two player co-op versus mode that can be played both with one and two cartridges and allows the players to go through the stages together, each trying to get a better score.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300426", "title": "Seascape (play)", "text": "Seascape (play)\n\nSeascape is a two-act play by American playwright Edward Albee. He completed it in 1974, having first developed it in 1967 as a short play entitled \"Life\", the first half of a projected double bill with another play called \"Death\" (which later became \"All Over\"). \"Seascape\" won the 1975 Pulitzer Prize for Drama.\n\nThe play opened on Broadway at the Sam S. Shubert Theatre on January 26, 1975 and closed on March 22, 1975 after 65 performances. Directed by Albee, the cast starred Deborah Kerr (Nancy), Barry Nelson (Charlie), Maureen Anderman (Sarah) and Frank Langella (Leslie). Langella won the 1975 Tony Award, Featured Actor in a Play. The play was nominated for the 1975 Tony Award, Play and Lighting Design (Play or Musical) (James Tilton).\n\nThe original three-act version of the play ran in Europe. Albee \"jettisoned a large section of the play\" during the out of town tryout in Baltimore, prior to the Broadway premiere.\n\nAlbee received his second Pulitzer Prize for Drama in 1975 for the play.\n\n\"Seascape\" was revived on Broadway by Lincoln Center Theater at the Booth Theatre on October 28, 2005 (previews) and closed on January 8, 2006 after 27 previews and 55 performances. Directed by Mark Lamos, the cast starred George Grizzard (Charlie), Frances Sternhagen (Nancy), Elizabeth Marvel (Sarah), and Frederick Weller (Leslie). The sets were by Michael Yeargan, costumes by Catherine Zuber, and lighting by Peter Kaczorowski.\n\nThe original three-act version received its American premiere in Boston in a production by Zeitgeist Stage Company at the Boston Center for the Arts Plaza Theater in October 2008 through a special arrangement with the playwright. The director was David J. Miller, with lights by Jeff Adelberg, costumes by Fabian Aguilar, fights & movement by Meron Langsner, and sound by Walter Eduardo. The cast consisted of Michelle Dowd as Nancy (who won an IRNE Award for Best Actress for the role), Peter Brown as Charlie, Claude Del as Leslie, and Emma Goodman as Sarah. The original second act is set entirely underwater.\n\nLike many of Albee's plays, \"Seascape\" focuses on communication in interpersonal relationships, in this case between couples. Albee's first successful play, \"Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?\" (1962), and his first Pulitzer Prize-winning play, \"A Delicate Balance\" (1966), are also concerned with this topic. \"Seascape\" is different from these dramas on several counts. \"Seascape\" is not strictly a drama but, according to various critics, has elements of comedy, fantasy, satire and absurdism.\n\nIn \"Seascape\", Nancy and Charlie, an American couple on the verge of the major life change of retirement, are having problems in their relationship. They are discussing these matters on the beach when another couple appears, two human-sized lizards named Leslie and Sarah who speak and act like people. The lizards have evolved to such a degree that they no longer feel at home in the sea and are compelled to seek life on the land. What the lizards experience with Nancy and Charlie nearly drives them back to the sea, but with an offer of help from the human couple, they decide to stay.\n\nThis relatively happy ending is not common in many of Albee's previous plays, and some critics find it refreshing. Before Albee won the Pulitzer Prize for drama for \"Seascape\", however, many critics reacted negatively to the first production. Only a few had generally positive responses. One was Clive Barnes of The New York Times who writes, \"What Mr. Albee has given us here is a play of great density, with many interesting emotional and intellectual reverberations.\" The Nation's Harold Clurman places Seascape in a positive context in terms of Albee's development as a playwright. He believes, \"It is his most relaxed play, a 'philosophical' whimsy.\"\n\nThe nod to absurdism is not only found in having half the cast being human/lizards but also in a few staging elements. For example, several times throughout the play a jet flies above, and each time Nancy and Charlie repeat the same dialog for two or three lines.\n\nSeascape opens on a beach. An older couple, Nancy and Charlie, has finished a picnic lunch. As Nancy cleans up, the noise of a jet flying low engulfs the stage. Charlie predicts that a jet will someday smash into a dune.\n\nNancy expresses her desire to be near the water forever. She loves everything about it and would like to travel from beach to beach. Charlie responds negatively to her dreams. He does not want to do anything or go anywhere.\n\nCharlie's attitude angers Nancy. She points out that life is short. She threatens to have adventures on her own. Charlie's attitude changes after Nancy's outburst, and she retreats from her plan a bit. She is content to enjoy the moment.\n\nAfter another jet passes by, Nancy reminds Charlie about his childhood desire to live under the water. Charlie tells her how he would sink to the bottom of a pool or lake and sit there until he had to breathe. Nancy encourages him to do this again and get in touch with his youth. Charlie refuses, embarrassed by her insistence.\n\nNancy changes the subject to their sex life. She tells him about a time in their marriage when she thought of divorcing him. There was tension, and she suspected that he was having an affair. Charlie denies this, and Nancy accepts his word.\n\nNancy encourages him to sink under the water again and to show her how he did it. Charlie again refuses and turns the conversation to her. He tells her that she was a good wife. Nancy says the same about him, listing the many ways in which he was a good husband. When she is done, she is bitter because the \"good life\" they have had seems limited to her. Charlie is hurt by her attitude. They argue. Nancy is still angry that his only interest is to rest, while she wants to experience new things.\n\nDuring a pause at the end of their heated argument, Leslie, a human-sized male lizard, takes a peek at them. Nancy tries to get Charlie to help write postcards, but he declines. Leslie peeks at them again, this time with his female mate, Sarah. Nancy sees the lizards and is intrigued. Charlie is afraid.\n\nCharlie demands that Nancy find him something to defend them with. When she can only find a small, thin stick, Charlie is peeved. Nancy remains interested in the lizards, but when Leslie clears his throat, she fears the lizards might hurt them.\n\nWhen Leslie waves his large stick, Nancy and Charlie admit their love for each other, Nancy more reluctantly than Charlie. As Leslie and Sarah move forward, another jet flies by and scares them away. Charlie tries to blame the whole episode on bad liver paste sandwiches. He believes they are dead from food poisoning. Nancy ridicules the idea.\n\nNancy is pleased when Leslie and Sarah return. To protect themselves, Nancy believes they should show submission by lying on their backs with their legs and arms up, as a dog would. Charlie assumes the position, though with great reluctance.\n\nAct II opens where act I ended. Leslie and Sarah are unsure about Nancy and Charlie's submissive stance. When Leslie and Sarah approach, Charlie threatens to scream. Nancy is much calmer. Leslie pokes Charlie and Nancy in the side, but neither one moves. Leslie and Sarah decide that Nancy and Charlie are relatively harmless.\n\nCharlie is unsure about the creatures, while Nancy is fascinated by everything about them. Leslie and Sarah decide to approach them again. Leslie pokes Charlie hard, causing Charlie to speak. Leslie replies several times, but Charlie will not speak to the creature. Nancy finally sits up and greets Sarah. Charlie only says hello after Nancy encourages him.\n\nSarah and Nancy believe that the tension has been defused, but Leslie and Charlie are still uncertain of each other. With Nancy's prodding, Charlie assures Leslie that they are not unfriendly. Though Leslie and Sarah speak English, they do not understand many of the words and ideas that Charlie and Nancy use.\n\nNancy tries to shake Leslie's flipper, but Leslie cannot grasp the concept. Nancy and Charlie explain the concept of the handshake, as well as their differing anatomy. The lizards have only legs and flippers. Nancy finally shakes hands with the lizards. Charlie tries to shake hands with Leslie, but Leslie is still uncertain about him. Leslie and Charlie talk about their differences. Leslie asks about their clothing. Among other things, Nancy tells them that clothes cover their sexual organs.\n\nThis leads to a discussion of the humans' sex organs, especially Nancy's breasts. The lizards do not have these organs. Nancy shows Sarah, who is fascinated. Leslie also wants to see, but Charlie is uncomfortable with the idea. To change the subject, Charlie asks about their children. Sarah and Leslie have produced seven thousand eggs. Leslie is appalled when he learns that the humans do not lay eggs. Nancy explains human gestation and that they have three children.\n\nWhen Nancy tells them that they keep their children for many years, she also explains the concept of love. This and all other emotions are foreign concepts to the lizards. Charlie asks how Sarah and Leslie became paired. Leslie fought off other lizards when Sarah reached her maturity and started to mate. He wanted her, but emotions did not play a role.\n\nCharlie brings up the idea of disloyalty in Leslie and Sarah's relationship. This upsets Nancy. The issue also confuses Sarah and Leslie. Charlie is nearly attacked by Leslie when he angrily compares the male lizard to a fish. The women calm the men down and Leslie explains his disdainful attitude toward fish. They discuss the ideas of prejudice and difference.\n\nSarah looks up and sees birds flying by. Leslie becomes defensive. Nancy explains to Sarah that the birds are seagulls. The females compare them to underwater rays. Nancy tells Sarah that she has seen photographs of rays. Nancy and Charlie cannot explain what photography is to her, so Sarah believes they are insulting her. When Leslie returns, Sarah explains what has happened.\n\nAbruptly changing the subject, Nancy declares that Charlie believes that they are dead. She continues to dig into Charlie, sarcastically saying that no wonders are possible. Leslie and Sarah catch on to her meaning, to some degree, but Leslie is confused by the idea that reality is an illusion. When Leslie asks Charlie to explain it, Charlie becomes angry.\n\nAfter Nancy calms him down, another jet flies by. Leslie and Sarah are fearful. Nancy and Charlie explain the idea of the airplane. Charlie talks about other machines including those that go undersea. Nancy tells the lizards about the times in Charlie's youth when he would sink under water and stay there. Angry at Nancy, Charlie changes the subject and asks the lizards why they came out of the sea in the first place. They do not know, other than they have changed somehow and do not belong there anymore.\n\nThis prompts Charlie to explain the idea of evolution, but Leslie and Sarah do not understand it fully. The lizards can only think in terms of themselves. When Sarah asks if progress is good, Charlie is uncertain. Every term and idea has to be explained to the lizards, leading to more frustration for Charlie, as well as Leslie and Sarah.\n\nCharlie asks Sarah what she would do if Leslie went away and did not come back. Nancy becomes angry at him for asking. Sarah is upset by the question and wants to go back to the sea. Leslie hits and chokes Charlie for making Sarah cry. Leslie and Sarah decide to go back. Nancy tells them to stay because eventually they will have to come back. Nancy, and to some degree Charlie, offer their help. Leslie accepts their offer.\n\nCharlie is married to Nancy and is part of the human couple at the center of the play. Unlike his wife, Charlie is fearful and passive. While Nancy wants to have an active retirement, Charlie wants to rest and do nothing. He does not understand his wife's need to connect with the past and explore the world they have not seen. Charlie admits to having a more adventurous spirit in his youth. He would release his breath and sink to the bottom of pools or other bodies of water until he had to rise to breathe again. Charlie liked to do this then but has no desire to do it now. He is content with the way things currently are in his life and does not like to be challenged.\n\nIt is Nancy who first antagonizes him. Nancy's idea about living at different beaches for the rest of their lives is distasteful to him. He will not let her push him into even considering such a lifestyle. Nancy later tells him, much to his surprise, that she considered divorcing him a long time ago because she believed he was having an affair. Charlie tells her he did not have such a liaison, and she believes him. Charlie was happy with the way his life with Nancy was and still is. Their disagreements over this matter are overshadowed by the appearance of the lizards.\n\nIf Charlie is uncomfortable with Nancy and her desires, he has bigger problems with the lizards. At first, he insists that they are a death hallucination caused by rotten liver paste sandwiches. While the creatures intrigue Nancy, Charlie continually acts with fear and resistance. He follows his wife's lead on posing submissively when the creatures first approach, but he will not respond to them until she orders him to. Even after the ice has been broken, Charlie remains uncertain about the creatures and their intentions. Leslie and Sarah's ignorance on many things (emotions, anatomy, etc.) adds to Charlie's negative attitude. When he has to explain these ideas to them, he is easily frustrated and often condescending. He drives Leslie to beat and choke him. Yet at the end, Charlie agrees with Nancy that the lizards have to stay on land and not go back into the water. Though he helps because Nancy will do it whether or not he agrees, Charlie does offer to take them by the hand.\n\nNancy is the female half of the human couple in the play; she is married to Charlie. Unlike her husband, Nancy is vibrant and curious about the world. When the play opens, she wants to live at the beach forever. Now that her children are grown, Nancy wants to have adventures. Charlie does not share her desires and does his best to discourage them. Despite Charlie's negative attitude, Nancy remains open to what comes her way, including the lizards.\n\nNancy's relationship with Charlie is somewhat strained. Nancy is angry at Charlie's passivity. Her attempts to encourage Charlie to sink underwater as he did as a child meet with a negative response. This frustrates her. Over the course of the first act, it is revealed that she once considered divorcing him because she believed that he was having an affair. Though she readily accepts his word when he says he did not, she does not think the \"good life\" they had together has been all that it could be. Still, Nancy remains loyal to Charlie. While she threatens to have adventures on her own, she does nothing about it.\n\nWhen the lizards approach them, Nancy is fascinated but a little afraid. She remains close to Charlie. Though she does not agree with him, she does find him a small stick to use as a defense. It is Nancy who comes up with the idea of lying down in a submissive posture when Leslie and Sarah come near. Charlie follows Nancy's directions in most of the dealings with the lizards. After it becomes clear that the lizards will not harm them, Nancy is excited by their presence. She does everything she can to learn about them and make a connection with them. She wants to shake hands with them first.\n\nCharlie is uncomfortable with the lengths to which his wife goes to connect with the lizards. Because Sarah has never seen a mammal's mammaries, Nancy shows Sarah her breasts and explains their function. Nancy would also have shown Leslie except for Charlie's protestations. While Nancy does become a bit frustrated with the lizards' intellectual limitations, she becomes increasingly annoyed with Charlie's condescending attitude toward them. Yet, when the lizards want to go back—after Charlie drives Sarah to tears, and Leslie beats him up—Nancy wants them to stay and offers them help. This experience has given Nancy the excitement she craves, and she ensures that it continues.\n\nLeslie is the male lizard who appears at the end of act I. Like Charlie, Leslie is a bit more fearful, defensive, and mistrusting than his mate. It is he who first watches the human couple. Leslie is also the first to approach Nancy and Charlie, poking them in the side. When Charlie does not reply right away, Leslie becomes frustrated. While Leslie's guard remains high, especially around Charlie, for most of the play, he is also curious, much more so than his human male counterpart.\n\nBoth Leslie and Sarah speak English, though they do not understand many words and concepts of human life. Leslie does not know what emotions are, what cooking or clothing is, or what the names of limbs are. When Nancy tries to shake hands with him, he is completely unfamiliar with and mistrustful of the process. Though Leslie wants to understand for the most part, he becomes impatient when the humans cannot easily explain complex things like love or consciousness.\n\nThough Leslie does not possess or understand some human ideas like love, he does have prejudices against others. Charlie tries and fails to explain what bigotry is to the lizard after Leslie speaks badly of fish. Leslie thinks they are dirty and too numerous. He also looks down on humans because they do not lay eggs. Yet Leslie also has some empathy for the humans. Leslie knows that he and Sarah must look odd to Charlie and Nancy. He also understands that Charlie is being difficult when Nancy mentions that her husband thinks they are dead and that this situation is some sort of hallucination.\n\nLeslie acts most often on instinct, like an animal. When birds and jets fly overhead, he runs to find an escape route. Leslie is very protective of Sarah. When Charlie hurts Sarah—asking her what she would do if Leslie left and never came back—Leslie attacks him. After hitting him, Leslie nearly chokes him until the females intercede. After the incident, Leslie decides that he and Sarah will go back into the sea, to escape this threat. When Nancy tells him that they will have to come back eventually and offers them help, it is Leslie who accepts this fate.\n\nSarah is the female half of the lizard couple, the mate of Leslie. Like her mate, Sarah is cautious and fearful around the humans. Yet like Nancy, she is curious about them and tries to make a connection. Though Sarah defers to Leslie much more than Nancy does to Charlie, she does play a buffer role between the couples. Leslie often consults Sarah on what he should do and what she thinks about the humans and the situation at hand. At first, Sarah urges wanness, but she also emphasizes the importance of contact.\n\nThough Sarah is more deferential than Nancy, she does assert herself to Leslie when an experience is important. For example, she insists on accompanying Leslie when he approaches the humans in act II after they have taken their submissive pose. Sarah wants to see everything for herself. Most of the new things she encounters intrigue her: the handshakes; Nancy's breasts; human gestation; and the birds flying above them, among other things. But she is also fearful. The jets frighten her, as does Charlie when he asks her what she would do if Leslie went away and never came back. Like Leslie, Sarah does not grasp many human concepts like emotions and nonaquatic animals, though she tries.\n\nSarah is also more open to explaining their way of life to the humans than her husband is. Leslie tries to curb her, but Sarah says what she believes she should say. Sarah does not fully share Leslie's prejudices and tries to make the humans understand her. For example, Sarah shares information on their reproduction and how she and Leslie met. It is also Sarah who tells the humans why they decided to come out of the sea. Leslie is reluctant to part with this information.\n\nAfter Charlie asks a question that makes her cry, Sarah wants to go back into the sea. Leslie agrees with her. Later, Sarah intercedes when Leslie tries to beat up Charlie over it. Though Sarah wants to return to their home, Leslie decides, with Nancy's help, to stay.\n\nAt the thematic center of \"Seascape\" are issues related to communication and understanding. Though all of the characters speak English, when each of the four tries to communicate with the others, only varied success is achieved. The theme of communication takes on several forms in the play.\n\nFirst, there is the communication between each member of a couple with their respective mate. Nancy tries to engage her husband, Charlie, in a mutually beneficial discussion about her needs and their future, but he derides her ideas. Nancy wants to explore and be adventurous in their retirement, while Charlie wants to rest and do nothing. Throughout the play, their inability to communicate and understand each other's wants and needs creates tension and hostility.\n\nLeslie and Sarah have fewer problems communicating. Leslie is dominant in their relationship, and Sarah is generally content to play a subservient role. Leslie consults Sarah on most decisions and generally respects her input. Sarah speaks up when she feels Leslie is acting inappropriately, and Leslie usually listens.\n\nThe other significant form of communication is between the two couples and is different between the genders. Nancy is very curious about and open with the lizards. Though she does become slightly frustrated by their limitations, she tries to help them by explaining aspects of human life they do not understand. Her general kindness toward them and offer of help when the lizards are deciding whether to stay on land or to go back to the sea influences their decision. Charlie is less forthcoming and more suspicious. He has a hard time accepting the lizards and quickly becomes testy when they do not understand his explanations.\n\nThe lizards' communication is somewhat similar to their human counterparts. Like Nancy, Sarah is more open to the humans and more interested in their world. She is also emotional, and when Charlie asks her a question that is hard for her to understand (what she would do if Leslie disappeared), she becomes distraught, leading to a confrontation. Leslie shares Charlie's attitude; he does not trust the humans and regards most everything they say with skepticism. Despite these problems, at the end of the play, some measure of trust is reached between all of them. Leslie decides that he and Sarah will stay on land when Nancy and Charlie, albeit reluctantly, offer to help them.\n\nAnother prominent theme in \"Seascape\" is that of evolution and progress. This theme manifests itself in several ways in the play. One is subtle. The relationship of Nancy and Charlie is in the process of evolution. They are on the verge of a major life change, retirement. Charlie would like to use this time to rest and do nothing. Nancy sees this desire as regression rather than evolution. Her family responsibilities fulfilled, Nancy wants to explore the world, perhaps moving from beach to beach, meeting new people and having new experiences. The couple's relationship will change, and Nancy tries to move it forward. Charlie wants things to stay the same.\n\nEvolution has a different meaning in terms of the lizards. Leslie and Sarah are literally evolving. They were creatures that lived in the sea but apparently developed beyond their species. They were compelled to move to the land, though they do not really understand why. Though Leslie and Sarah are somewhat fearful of the change, they do accept the help that Nancy, enthusiastically, and Charlie, reluctantly, give them. At the end of the play, rather than go back into the sea where they might feel safer, they remain on land.\n\nA more subtle undercurrent in \"Seascape\" is the idea of alienation. In terms of this play, to be alienated means to feel withdrawn or exist in an unfriendly environment. Alienation was one of the reasons that Leslie and Sarah left the sea. In act II, Sarah tells the humans, \"It wasn't ... comfortable anymore. I mean after all, you make your nest, and accept a whole ... array ... of things ... and ... we didn' t feel we belonged there anymore.\" It could be argued that this alienation was a step in their evolution. Nancy and, to some degree, Charlie also feel alienated in their lives. In act I, Nancy describes several ways in which she feels alienated, mostly in her relationship with Charlie. She does not share his views on what their life was, is, and could be; she wants to do more than retire. Though not as vocal, Charlie, in turn, feels alienated from her because of her curiosity and her desires. The strains caused by alienation affect the direction of the characters and the action of the play.\n\n\"Seascape\" is set on a beach in a time contemporary with the writing of the play. Though it is unstated in the text, several critics have assumed that the action takes place somewhere on the east coast of the United States. All of the play is confined to one afternoon. This physical setting emphasizes the transitional state of the characters' lives. It is one of many symbols in the play.\n\nThere is critical debate over exactly what genre of play \"Seascape\" is. Some believe it is a comedy, while others see it as absurdist, satirical, or allegorical. Most agree that an element of fantasy is involved. While Nancy and Charlie are humans and act accordingly, Leslie and Sarah are fantastic creations. They are human-sized lizards that have left their life in the sea to live on land. They speak perfect English and understand some aspects of human life. Charlie has a hard time accepting that they are real. He wants to believe that he and Nancy see them because they are suffering from food poisoning or are dead. In terms of the play Leslie and Sarah are very real, a fact that Nancy immediately grasps and embraces. The fantasy aspect of the play creates dramatic irony and allows issues such as progress, values, and differences to be discussed.\n\nMany symbols are employed by Albee to underscore the action and themes of \"Seascape\". The most obvious symbols are the lizard characters, Leslie and Sarah. Because these are anthropomorphic creatures (that is, animals with human qualities), they can be used to illustrate Albee's ideas about humans and their relationships. Leslie and Sarah represent many things, including a literal depiction of evolution and progress and an ideal of a relationship that works in stark contrast to Nancy and Charlie's relationship.\n\nThe setting is symbolic. The beach—where land and sea meet—represents a place of transition. In earth's distant history creatures emerged from the sea to live on land, as Leslie and Sarah do in the course of the play. Changes for all four characters are taking place at the beach. Another symbol is the jet planes that zoom overhead. The jets are a mixed symbol. They are described to Sarah as the mechanical evolution of the seagulls that fascinate her. Yet Charlie worries that a jet will one day crash into the dune—a temporary if not symbolic end to evolution. The jets also scare both Sarah and Leslie. But the jets continue to fly and never crash, and the lizards decide to embrace their own evolution. Though feared by everyone but Nancy in \"Seascape\", positive change holds as a symbolic theme of the play.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300427", "title": "2002 NFL season", "text": "2002 NFL season\n\nThe 2002 NFL season was the 83rd regular season of the National Football League.\n\nThe league went back to an even number of teams, expanding to 32 teams with the addition of the Houston Texans; the league has since remained static with 32 teams since. The clubs were then realigned into eight divisions, four teams in each. Also, the Chicago Bears played their home games in 2002 in Champaign, Illinois at Memorial Stadium because of the reconstruction of Soldier Field.\n\nThe NFL title was eventually won by the Tampa Bay Buccaneers when they defeated the Oakland Raiders 48–21 in Super Bowl XXXVII, at Qualcomm Stadium in San Diego, California on January 26, 2003.\n\nWith the Houston Texans joining the NFL, the league's teams were realigned into eight divisions: four teams in each division and four divisions in each conference. In creating the new divisions, the league tried to maintain the historical rivalries from the old alignment, while at the same time attempting to organize the teams geographically. Legally, three teams from the AFC Central (Cincinnati, Cleveland, and Pittsburgh) were required to be in the same division as part of any realignment proposals; this was part of the NFL's settlement with the city of Cleveland in the wake of the 1995 Cleveland Browns relocation controversy.\n\nThe major changes were:\n\nAdditionally, the arrival of the Texans meant that the league could return to its pre-1999 scheduling format in which no team received a bye during the first three weeks or last seven weeks of the season. From 1999 to 2001, at least one team sat out each week (including the preseason) because of an odd number of teams in the league (this also happened in 1960, 1966, and other years wherein the league had an odd number of teams). It nearly became problematic during the previous season due to the September 11 attacks, since the San Diego Chargers had their bye week during that week and the league nearly outright canceled that week's slate of games.\n\nThe league also introduced a new eight-year scheduling rotation designed so that all teams will play each other at least twice during those eight years, and play in every other team's stadium at least once. Under scheduling formulas in use from 1978 to 2001, two teams in different divisions have gone over 15 seasons without playing each other. Under the new scheduling formula, only two of a team's games each season are based on the previous season's record, down from four under the previous system. All teams play four interconference games. An analysis of win percentages in 2008 showed a statistical trend upwards for top teams since this change; the top team each year then averaged 14.2 wins, versus 13.4 previously.\n\nThe playoff format was also modified: four division winners and two wild cards from each conference now advance to the playoffs, instead of three division winners and three wild cards. In each conference, the division winners are now seeded 1 through 4, and the wild cards are seeded 5 and 6. In the current system, the only way a wild card team can host a playoff game is if both teams in the conference's championship game are wild cards. However, the number of playoff teams still remains at 12, where it has been since 1990.\n\nThe 2002 NFL Draft was held from April 20 to 21, 2002 at New York City's Theater at Madison Square Garden. With the first pick, the Houston Texans selected quarterback David Carr from Fresno State University.\n\n\n\nAlso, with the opening of the NFL's first stadium with a retractable roof, Reliant Stadium, the following rules were enacted:\n\nThis rule was amended in to allow a roof to be opened or closed at halftime, at the home team's discretion.\n\n\n\nThe following teams and players set all-time NFL records during the season:\n\n\n\nReebok took over the contract to be the official athletic supplier to the NFL for all 32 teams’ uniforms. Previously, all teams had individual contracts with athletic suppliers. American Needle, which had a contract with a few teams before the Reebok deal, challenged the NFL in court over Reebok's exclusive deal, with the NFL effectively stating that it was a “single-entity league” instead of a group consisting of various owners. The case eventually went all the way to the Supreme Court of the United States. In 2009, the Supreme Court agreed to hear \"American Needle, Inc. v. National Football League\". In 2010, the court ruled that the NFL is not a single entity. Reebok remained the league's athletic supplier through the 2011 NFL season, when Nike took over the contract for the 2012 NFL season.\n\nReebok had initially announced when the deal was signed in 2000 that aside from the expansion Texans, all NFL teams would be wearing new uniforms for the 2002 season. However, after protests from several owners—most vocally Pittsburgh Steelers owner Dan Rooney—Reebok later rescinded the proposal. Reebok did, however (by player request to reduce holding calls), shorten the sleeves on the jerseys for teams that hadn't done so already (most players had been for the previous decade tying the sleeves tight around their arms to prevent holding) and made the jerseys tighter-fitting. This is perhaps most noticeable on the Indianapolis Colts jerseys, where the shoulder stripes, which initially went from the top of the shoulders all the way underneath the arms, were truncated to just the top portion of the shoulders.\n\nAlthough Reebok rescinded the idea of all NFL teams wearing new uniforms for the 2002 season, the Buffalo Bills and Seattle Seahawks did redesign their uniforms, with the Seahawks also unveiling an updated logo in honor of their move to Qwest Field and the NFC.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300431", "title": "2003 NFL season", "text": "2003 NFL season\n\nThe 2003 NFL season was the 84th regular season of the National Football League (NFL).\n\nRegular-season play was held from September 4, 2003, to December 28, 2003. Due to damage caused by the Cedar Fire, Qualcomm Stadium was used as an emergency shelter, and thus the Miami Dolphins–San Diego Chargers regular-season match on October 27 was instead played at Sun Devil Stadium, the home field of the Arizona Cardinals.\n\nThe playoffs began on January 3, 2004. The NFL title was won by the New England Patriots when they defeated the Carolina Panthers, 32–29, in Super Bowl XXXVIII at Reliant Stadium in Houston, Texas, on February 1.\n\nThis was the last season until the 2016 NFL season where neither of the previous Super Bowl participants made the playoffs.\n\nThe 2003 NFL Draft was held from April 26 to 27, 2003 at New York City's Theater at Madison Square Garden. With the first pick, the Cincinnati Bengals selected quarterback Carson Palmer from the University of Southern California.\n\nDick Hantak and Bob McElwee retired in the 2003 off-season. Hantak joined the league as a back judge in 1978, and was assigned Super Bowl XVII in that position. He was promoted to referee in 1986, working Super Bowl XXVII. McElwee joined the NFL in 1976 as a line judge, and became a referee in 1980. He was the referee for three Super Bowls: XXII, XXVIII, and XXXIV. Walt Anderson and Pete Morelli were promoted to referee to replace Hantak and McElwee.\n\n\n\n\nThe following teams and players set all-time NFL records during the season:\n\n\n\nIn addition new turf was installed for the following teams:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300433", "title": "The Killer That Stalked New York", "text": "The Killer That Stalked New York\n\nThe Killer That Stalked New York is a 1950 American film noir directed by Earl McEvoy and starring Evelyn Keyes, Charles Korvin and William Bishop. The film, shot on location and in a semi-documentary style, is about diamond smugglers who unknowingly start a smallpox outbreak in the New York City of 1947. It is based on the real threat of a smallpox epidemic in the city, as described in a story taken from a 1948 \"Cosmopolitan\" magazine article.\n\nArriving at New York City's Pennsylvania Station after a trip to Cuba, Sheila Bennet (Evelyn Keyes), who is smuggling $50,000 worth of diamonds into the country, realizes she's being followed by the authorities. She mails the diamonds to her husband, Matt Krane (Charles Korvin), instead of carrying them around, and then tries to shake the Treasury agent following her.\n\nFeeling sick, Sheila nearly faints on the street, so a cop takes her to a local clinic. While there, she encounters a little girl and inadvertently infects her. Sheila is misdiagnosed as having a common cold, and she leaves and returns home. After the girl is admitted to the hospital, she is found to have smallpox.\n\nMeanwhile, Matt has been cheating on Sheila with her sister, Francie (Lola Albright), and then attempts to take off without either of them when the diamonds finally arrive through the mail. Unfortunately for him, the fence cannot buy the diamonds because they are too hot. Matt will have to wait for ten days for the cash, so he cannot leave New York. Sheila confronts Francie, who kills herself afterward due to Matt's betrayal of them both. This gives Sheila more reason to get revenge on him.\n\nFinding a growing number of smallpox victims, city officials decide to vaccinate everyone in New York to prevent an epidemic, but quickly run out of serum. This causes a panic in the city. Tracking the victims, agents realize that the disease carrier and the diamond smuggler are one and the same. However, an increasingly sick Sheila continues to elude capture. Still unaware that she has smallpox, she returns to the doctor at the clinic to get more medicine. The doctor explains her illness and tries to talk her into turning herself in, but she shoots him in the shoulder and escapes.\n\nSheila eventually catches up with Matt, who tries to escape from the police, but falls from a building ledge to his death. Sheila nearly attempts to drop herself from the ledge, until the doctor tells her the little girl she met had died. Remorseful, Sheila turns herself in and, before succumbing to the disease, provides authorities with a badly needed list of those she contacted.\n\n\n\"The New York Times\" film critic, Bosley Crowther, gave the film a mixed review, writing, \"But, unfortunately, the script of Harry Essex, based on a factual magazine piece, has a bad tendency to ramble and to confuse two separate hunts. And the performances of the principal characters, while adequate, have little punch. Evelyn Keyes, as the fugitive smallpox carrier, manifests great discomfort and distress, but she is no more than a melodramatic cipher in a loosely organized \"chase.\" William Bishop is blankly youthful as the physician and Charles Korvin is conventional as the lady's no-good husband who tries to give her the brush. Others are moderately effective in a potentially but not sufficiently intriguing film.\"\n\nFilm critic Dennis Schwartz gave the film a mixed review as well and wrote, \"There's not much in the way of thrills or surprises in this minor film noir ... The action part of the melodramatic story was weakly told, while the noir characterizations of Sheila did capture the desperate feelings of the subject but it was not enough to overcome the overall inability of the story to have a heart to it. The city officials and Dr. Wood running around the city to stem the epidemic, seemed hard to fathom. The mechanical acting by everyone, except for Keyes, and the unconvincing action scenes made the film appear as the B film it was, despite the great noir camerawork of Joseph Biroc who caught how dark the city could be for someone on-the-run.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300438", "title": "Misty Dawn", "text": "Misty Dawn\n\nMisty Dawn (also known as Marla Lee Gardner, Lori Holmes, Lori Rose, or Laurie Holmes; born May 15, 1963) is a former adult industry performer. Dawn acted in pornographic films and videos, and was an exotic dancer. She married fellow pornographic actor John “The Wadd” Holmes in 1987, and after his death published his autobiography and appeared in several films about his life.\n\nDawn was born Laurie Rose on May 15, 1963, in Albuquerque, New Mexico.\n\nDawn began performing in adult films in 1982, at age 19, and continued until about 1991. After taking a 15-year hiatus, she returned as a fluffer in \"The World's Biggest Gang Bang III – The Houston 620\" (1999). She also appeared in \"Voyer Vision\" (2003). Over the course of her career Dawn worked for the Golden Age production companies Beate Uhse, Caballero Home Video, Filmco Releases, Gourmet Video Collection, VCA Pictures, and VCX.\n\nAs Laurie Holmes, she appeared in multiple documentaries about \"Johnny Wadd\" Holmes and the adult film industry, including: \"\" (1998), \"The Other Hollywood\" (1999), \"XXXL: The John Holmes Story\" (2000), and \"John Holmes: The Man, the Myth, the Legend\" (2004).\n\nFor a brief time in the mid-1980s, she and Holmes partnered with Bill Amerson in an adult film company known as Penguin Productions. The couple also lived in Amerson's mansion in the hills of Sherman Oaks. Johnny Wadd Holmes was godfather to Amerson's children.\n\nDawn, using her legal married name, Laurie Holmes, posthumously released Holmes' memoir, \"Porn King: The Autobiography of John C. Holmes\" (1998). In 2012, BearManor Media published a revised edition of \"Porn King\", which included added material and photos.\n\nHolmes stopped making adult films in the early 1980s. According to Dawn, \"John thought one porn person in the family was enough. And the AIDS thing was just starting to come out. Nobody had gotten it yet, but it was still in the back of our minds. He thought, ‘Well, if I’m going to take a chance, that’s enough.'\"\n\nDawn was married to the adult film star John \"The Wadd\" Holmes from January 23, 1987, until his death on March 13, 1988, during which time he was stepfather to her young son. According to Dawn, they first met in December 1982 on the set of a film they were working on together in San Francisco, entitled \"Marathon\". (Mike Sager reports the 19-year-old first met Holmes on the set of \"Fleshpond\", though they didn't work together on that film.) They remained close, and in 1987, five years after Holmes was arrested then released from jail in connection with the Wonderland Murders, they married in Las Vegas, at the Little Chapel of the Flowers, after Holmes had confided to her that he had AIDS. The wedding, at which Laurie wore white, was an ordeal for John who was ill, knew he was dying, and realized he and Laurie would not have much of a life together. \"John kept the marriage secret,\" Dawn says, \"because he was a very private person. Thus, when he died, many acquaintances in the industry and journalists reporting on his death were surprised to learn that we were married.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2300439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300439", "title": "Venice 13", "text": "Venice 13\n\nVenice 13, abbreviated as V13 or VX3, is a Mexican American street gang based in the Oakwood (aka \"Ghost Town\") neighborhood of Venice, a section of Los Angeles, California. It has a substantial presence in East Venice as well as the Culver City/Los Angeles border, especially around Washington Blvd.\n\nThe gang dates back to the 1960s, and has long been known as one of the most dangerous street gangs on the Los Angeles Westside. It was amongst the first Mexican gangs to fight gang wars against African-American gangs, especially the local Venice Shoreline Crips which were founded in the mid-1970s. It is affiliated with the Sureños and the Mexican Mafia.\n\nAfter the 405 freeway tore through predominantly Mexican American and immigrant communities in the late 1950s and early 1960s, many migrated west into the Oakwood area of Venice Beach. Originally the Oakwood area was labeled as a \"servant's zone\" and was one of the only areas where African Americans could live on the Westside of Los Angeles. During this time Venice had been notoriously known as the \"ghetto by the sea\" due to the City of Los Angeles' negligent attitude toward the area, and as a result Oakwood's cheap housing prices which attracted young counterculture artists, poor European immigrants, and maintained an already working-class African American population made it relatively easy for Mexicans to settle in. It was in this extreme poverty that the Venice 13 gang formed, becoming one of the earliest gangs in the city.\n\nThroughout the 1960s the gang grew rapidly and Venice gang members began playing an active role in the California prison system through Mexican Mafia membership, while on the streets the gang viciously battled with Culver City 13 creating a rivalry spanning over 50 years and still running. By this time the area was overrun with drugs and times changed, with V13 taking control of the drug trade as unemployment and racial tensions escalated, further fueling gang membership. Gang members found income supplying drugs to the hippies, and eventually high-income residents who came to Oakwood from affluent areas as crack cocaine arrived. In the 1990s Oakwood exploded when a war broke out between Venice 13, the Venice Shoreline Crips (VSLC) and the Culver City gang. As ordered by the Mexican Mafia, Venice 13 was to maintain control of Oakwood's drug trade and eventually a peace treaty formed between Venice 13 and the Crips. The 1980s and 1990s brought on a series of revitalization as white homeowners began purchasing property and renovating old houses, causing the City of Los Angeles to combat the gang problem although V13 still remains active.\n\nVenice 13 is made up of a series of cliques, or subsets within the gang.\n\nDukes (DKS) Mainly active in the '80s and early '90s, the set is composed of older members. Duke members often wear clothes with the Duke University Blue Devil or blue Detroit Tigers caps.\n\nLil Jokers(LJKS L'Js) was a large clique from V13 and are still active.\n\nGangsters (G'S, GEES) are a large clique. Made up of some older members, the set has seen a rapid increase in membership and activity as more and more youngsters have grown and earned membership, replacing many past members who were specifically targeted by injunctions. The GEES look up to the Dukes clique because of their well-known gang activity \"back in the day\".\n\nMalos (MLS) Mainly active east of Lincoln Blvd., the division between Oakwood and the rest of Venice, and East Venice.\n\nLil Locos (LLS')and the Big Locos(L' S), cliques that function within Oakwood as well as around the outskirts of Venice by displaced members. Mentioned in the original script for the movie American History X.\nThey also have an asesinos[ASNS] clique and the Jokers[JKS]clique\n\nThe Venice gang has also been the target of West Side gang injunctions in the 1990s along with Culver City 13, and the Venice Shoreline Crips.\n\nVenice 13's main rivals were the Santa Monica 13 and Santa Monica 17th St gangs, however they both settled a truce and formed an alliance. As well as 18th Street gang (particularly the 106th St Inglewood). Historically, the main rivals of the gang have long been Venice Shoreline Crips in nearby Mar Vista and Culver City.\n\nVenice 13 was involved in an intense battle with the Venice Shoreline Crips during the 1990s. The conflict escalated and in one point in time Venice 13 and the Culver City gang went as far as to set aside their own fight to unite against the Shorelines. In 1994 Venice 13 and the Shorelines bargained for a cease fire, after a war that left 55 people dead and many more wounded.\n\nAlthough the gang has been known to be relatively laid back and often members prefer not to exert themselves, they have gained notoriety for violent and often very reckless retaliation attacks. The gang is also involved in large scale narcotics trafficking business along the Oakwood and boardwalk areas, a prime market for selling to high income residents who come from surrounding affluent areas. Venice 13 has also been known to viciously defend their turf from outside drug trafficking and trespassing, with violators being killed or at least shot at.\n\nAside from the war with the Shorelines, V13 has also gained infamy as being the most violent rival of the Culver City gang. The gang has been known to publicly take credit for the murders of rivals by marking the neighborhood with \"VX3,\" \"V13\" and \"Venice 13\" taggings. In one incident \"V13s invaded the hospital in search of a Culver City enemy they hadn't quite managed to kill. It was necessary to give the patient a fictitious name and change all the labels on the census boards, chart backs, etc,\" as described by a nurse.\n\nOn November 7, 2007 members of the Venice 13 gang fired shots, from a vehicle leaving Venice High School, at alleged rival Culver City members who were standing outside the SHOP-4 building at approximately 2:58 pm. The incident began with an argument until it turned to gunfire. The argument is said to have start with gang identification. After the first victim, Carlos, was aware of the situation he was shot at leaving 3 holes on his sleeve with one bullet. He then tried running into other classes were teachers refused to keep him there. The two other victims are unknown. The school was put on lockdown and police were dispatched for extra security for a couple days until threat was minimized. Carlos and the other victims have disappeared only with rumors from friends of moving to Mexico.\n\nIn 1994, due to the stigma of the neighborhood's reputation as \"Los Angeles at its worst\" many investors were deterred from the area.\n\nWith gentrification transforming the formerly more downscale sections of the West Side, many of its rivals are either near-defunct or in severe decline. With housing prices starting in the $500,000 and escalating into the millions from there, Venice 13 struggled to maintain the same presence it used to have in its neighborhood during the 1990s. While Oakwood was at one point a very inexpensive area to buy property, it is being sought after by wealthy artists and businessmen at competitive prices. Famous movie stars such as actresses Julia Roberts and Anjelica Huston, and actor Nicolas Cage have taken residency in or around the Oakwood area. According to a Venice gang member, some Venice 13 members have even been forced into nearby Inglewood due to rent and housing costs. The affiliate, with plenty of animosity for the mostly, non-Hispanic white professional newcomers, stated that new home owners in the area at sometimes fail to even notice Oakwood as a gang neighborhood. This gentrification has been the cause of rising racial tension between the original African American and Latino residents and the more affluent newcomers.\n\nThe inconsistent pattern of gang violence in Oakwood has also scared many high income residents who are not accustomed to the neighborhood, such as a 2001 string of violent shootings which resulted in 3 murders in a two-week period. Months following the incidents residents reported the streets being empty at sundown despite increased police presence. In the November 2004 issue of \"Vanity Fair\" magazine author John Brodie contested that gentrification would fail as \"...the gunplay of the Shoreline Crips and the V-13 is as much a part of life in Venice as pit bulls playing with blond Labs at the local dog park.\".\n"}
{"id": "2300446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300446", "title": "Show control", "text": "Show control\n\nShow control is the use of automation technology to link together and operate multiple entertainment control systems in a coordinated manner. It is distinguished from an entertainment control system, which is specific to a single theatrical department, system or effect, one which coordinates elements within a single entertainment discipline such as lighting, sound, video, rigging or pyrotechnics. A typical entertainment control system would be lighting control. An example of show control would be linking a video segment with a number of lighting cues, or having a sound track trigger animatronic movements -- or all of these combined. Shows with or without live actors can almost invariably incorporate entertainment control technology and usually benefit from show control to operate these subsystems independently, simultaneously, or in rapid succession. \n\nShow control networks have largely supplanted older show control typologies. This is primarily due to the maturation of the larger information technology (IT) computing industry, which, due to its scale and dominance, has produced standards, equipment and software which is less expensive than older show control equipment and methodologies and increasingly more reliable and usable in entertainment applications. \n\nModern systems are increasingly based upon Ethernet networking. Most manufacturers of entertainment control equipment now include Ethernet ports on their equipment. Ethernet was originally disqualified from consideration for show control because it was slow, non-deterministic, and lacked sufficient bandwidth to handle certain show control functions. These early objections have been overcome with the use of full-duplex switched Ethernet running at 1000BASE-T speeds on a dedicated local area network (LAN).\n\nThe MIDI Show Control (MSC) standard is an open, industry-wide international communications protocol through which all types of show devices can communicate. MIDI generally is a simplex asynchronous serial data transmission standard with the circuit being an opto-isolated current loop type. MIDI, an acronym for Musical Instrument Digital Interface, was originally designed in the early 1980s as a means of controlling multiple keyboard synthesizers from different manufacturers. Beginning in 1989, a group of interested theatre professionals headed by Charlie Richmond of Richmond Sound Design in Vancouver British Columbia began discussions on the USITT MIDI Forum Callboard Network. This forum included developers and designers from the theatre sound and lighting industry from around the world. They created the MSC standard between January and September, 1990. It was ratified by the MIDI Manufacturers Association (MMA) in January, 1991, and the Japan MIDI Standards Committee (JMSC) later that year, as an extension of the standard MIDI specification. It became an accepted standard in August, 1991. The first show to fully utilize the MSC specification was the Magic Kingdom Parade at Walt Disney World's Magic Kingdom in September, 1991.\n\nUSITT DMX512-A is the current de facto standard for lighting control systems. It is an asynchronous serial data transmission standard commonly found as a control scheme between computerized lighting consoles and connected dimmers, moving light fixtures, color changers including LED fixtures, and certain effects (fog, strobes) which are usually operated by the electrical (lighting) department in theatres.\n\nDMX512 was originally launched by USITT in 1986. It was updated in 1990 to USITT DMX512/1990. In 1998, the maintenance of the standard was transferred to the Entertainment Services and Technology Association (ESTA). ESTA revised it, and it was accepted by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI) in November 2004 as \"Entertainment Technology—USITT DMX512-A—Asynchronous Serial Digital Data Transmission Standard for Controlling Lighting Equipment and Accessories\". In 2011, ESTA merged with the Professional Lighting and Sound Association (PLASA), which now manages the standard. The standard is now called \"E1.11 – 2008, USITT DMX512-A\".\n\nAt one time, DMX was put forth as a possible show control standard, mainly by the manufacturers of lighting control consoles, but this idea was never widely adopted, due to the speed and network traffic limitations of DMX for show control applications.\n\nAudio systems have also benefited from digital networking technology. Dante (Digital Audio Network Through Ethernet) is one of the most technically advanced means of routing high quality audio over an Ethernet network. It is a proprietary audio over Ethernet scheme using layer 3 packets to distribute uncompressed, multi-channel, low-latency digital audio in professional installations. Dante was developed by Audinate of Australia in 2006, and has since been licensed to a number of hardware manufacturers worldwide. It requires a combination of hardware and software to operate. Similar layer 3 products are RAVENNA (an open standard developed by ALC NetworX GmbH., Germany), Livewire by Axia Audio (a division of Telos Systems), Q-LAN by QSC Audio Products and WheatNet-IP by Wheatstone, most of them interoperable by conforming to AES67.\n\nCobraNet, although an older proprietary standard dating from 1996, still enjoys a large base of installations. It is regarded as the first commercially successful implementation of networked digital audio. It utilizes layer 2 packets to distribute uncompressed multi-channel digital audio in professional installations. Its first theme park use was to distribute background music (BGM) in Disney's Animal Kingdom park. It also requires a combination of hardware and software to operate, and has been licensed to multiple manufacturers.\n\nInterest in transferring audio over Ethernet arose about the same time the audio industry was making increasing use of digital signal processing (DSP). Sound engineers had been altering audio through various analog means for many years, but with the advent of fast, low-latency digital chips, audio signal processing moved rapidly into the digital domain.\n\nSome types of attractions operated by show control are nearly completely based upon clock-driven timing. These are most commonly found in theme parks in semi-automated attractions which are repetitious and not usually subject to variation. Certain ride systems, once manually started or dispatched, may run entirely on time code nowadays. Certain shows, such as 4-D film presentations, are also good candidates for this type of control. An example of the former is Harry Potter and the Escape from Gringotts at Universal Studios Florida and of the latter, Pirates 4-D at Thorpe Park.\n\nSMPTE time code dates back to 1969, when the film and video tape timing standard proposed by the Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers (SMPTE) was accepted by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI). SMPTE time code, usually a variant called LTC (linear time code), is an analog recording of a bi-phase modulated square wave, whose internal transitions encode hours, minutes, seconds, and frames.\n\nMIDI time code (MTC) is actually a digital representation of SMPTE time code encapsulated as a series of quarter-frame MIDI messages. MTC was developed in 1986.\n\nThe beginnings of show control technology can probably be traced to the use of relay logic in other industries, most prominently elevators. The electric elevator was invented in 1880, but it was not until about 1930 that the rise of the \"automatic\" elevator produced more advanced electrical controls. Entertainment has always borrowed from other industries, and various electrically driven hoists, platforms and stage elevators soon made their way into theatres and amusement parks. Automation soon followed, utilizing switches, mechanical sensors and relays to perform repetitious sequences. Early modern roller coasters used this sort of control. When industrial microprocessor devices began to supplant relay installations, more complex sequences could be realized. These devices were called programmable logic controllers (PLCs), with the first being built in 1968 for an automobile plant. PLCs were programmed using ladder logic, a language simulating relay logic.\n\nEven today, PLCs, mechanical switches, and optical sensors are used in many entertainment control and show control applications. They are found in stage lifts and wagons in theatres, animatronics, special effects, and show action equipment in theme parks, and in ride vehicles such as motion simulators, iron rides and roller coasters in amusement parks. One of their key advantages is safety. Potentially hazardous events can be redundantly checked against multiple safety considerations before being allowed to start or operate.\n\nThe lowest level of subsystem is an embedded system. These are typically found in single-purpose devices, such as a professional fog generator. A small microprocessor might be a part of the equipment and be used to control variables such as volume, temperature and communications with other devices. An example is these specifications for the Antari DMG-200 fog machine.\n\nThe programmable logic controller, or its cousin the small logic controller, would be the next increase in scale. These are commonly used to control subsystems which vary from moderately-sized to very large pieces of equipment. The unifying factor is that the equipment fulfills a single purpose, whether it be an animatronic figure or an entire ride system. In the earliest days of show control, PLCs were sometimes used as a show controller for an entire attraction. This is no longer done since there are now simpler and more cost-effective solutions for show control.\n\nEntertainment control systems are the highest level of subsystem, often consisting of sophisticated, expensive controllers which fulfill a single purpose. The modern lighting control console is probably the best example of this type of equipment. Some of the largest concert and hotel-casino installations might use three lighting consoles, each with a distinct purpose.\n\nShow control systems are very widely used in theme parks as a means of synchronizing ride systems with lighting, audio, show action equipment and special effects. They are also used extensively in live shows in theme parks, such as parades, stunt shows, character shows, and special events, including large fireworks displays. They have found increasing use in live theatre, although due to their cost and the necessity for specialists to design and program them, they are mainly found in large Broadway-type productions or Las Vegas Hotel-Casino production shows. They are also seen in some of the larger concert tours, especially those featuring moving scenery, flying rigs, and special effects. Shows which are performed once or only a few times are often not considered candidates for show control since considerable preplanning and programming is usually required, but this may change as the technology, ease of operation and programming of show control software and systems matures.\n\nIt must be remembered that \"entertainment control\" does not constitute \"show control\". A computerized lighting console controlling dimmers and lighting effects is not show control. Only when that lighting console is linked to another system, perhaps a computerized audio playback system, does it become show control.\n\nGenerally, there are several kinds of show control systems, as well as hybrid systems which may include multiple system types. In theme parks, the overall show controller is referred to as the RSS (ride/show supervisor). The operator interface in these installations is the OCC (operator control console). In the early years of usage, the RSS was probably a PLC. This began to change as entertainment manufacturers began writing software for personal computers, and/or building small, dedicated computing devices. An example of the former was the Richmond Command Cue system, which used an Amiga computer connected to a proprietary frame containing audio control and matrixing, as well as closure capability. The computer maintained multiple cue lists, and could send MSC messages to other subsystems, such as lighting consoles. An example of the latter might be the Alcorn-McBride V-16, which was programmed with a PC, but did not require one in operation. The V-16 was capable of sending cues as serial messages, contact closures, MSC, and could sync to or generate SMPTE LTC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300449", "title": "William H. Sutphin", "text": "William H. Sutphin\n\nWilliam Halstead Sutphin (August 30, 1887 – October 14, 1972) was an American military officer, businessman, and Democratic Party politician who represented from 1931 to 1943.\n\nHe was born on August 30, 1887 in Browntown, New Jersey and he attended the public schools of Matawan, New Jersey, the Woods Business College in Brooklyn, and attended the officers training camp at Plattsburgh, New York in 1915. He was Mayor of Matawan, New Jersey from 1915–1916 and 1921–1926. He served on the United States-Mexico border in 1916 (see Pancho Villa Expedition) with B Troop, First Squadron, New Jersey Cavalry. During World War I he served in France from December 1917 to May 1919 and was discharged as captain in the Air Service. He was a factory representative for asphalt roofing from 1920 to 1931.\n\nSutphin was elected as a Democrat to the Seventy-second Congress and to the five succeeding Congresses (March 4, 1931–January 3, 1943). He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1942 to the Seventy-eighth Congress.\n\nAfter leaving office, he went on to be vice president of the M.J. Merkin Paint Co., in New York City. He retired in 1951 and resided in Berlin, Maryland. Sutphin died in Salisbury, Maryland on October 14, 1972 and was interred in Arlington National Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300455", "title": "Connexionalism", "text": "Connexionalism\n\nConnexionalism, also spelled connectionalism, is the theological understanding and foundation of Methodist ecclesiastical polity, as practised in the Methodist Church in Britain, Methodist Church in Ireland, United Methodist Church, Free Methodist Church, African Methodist Episcopal Church, African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, Bible Methodist Connection of Churches, Christian Methodist Episcopal Church, and many of the countries where Methodism was established by missionaries sent out from these churches. The United Methodist Church defines \"connection\" as the principle that \"all leaders and congregations are connected in a network of loyalties and commitments that support, yet supersede, local concerns.\" Accordingly, the primary decision-making bodies in Methodism are conferences, which serve to gather together representatives of various levels of church hierarchy. \n\nIn the United Methodist Church and Free Methodist Church, where bishops provide church leadership, connexionalism is a variety of episcopal polity. Many Methodist churches, such as the British Methodist Church, do not have bishops. In world Methodism, a given connexion (that is, denomination) is usually autonomous.\n\nIn the history of Christianity in England, a \"connexion\" was a circuit of prayer groups who would employ travelling ministers alongside the regular ministers attached to each congregation. This method of organizing emerged in 18th-century English nonconformist religious circles; this is why the otherwise old-fashioned spelling (\"connexion\" rather than \"connection\") is retained in the British church. The Countess of Huntingdon's Connexion, for instance, was founded by Selina, Countess of Huntingdon. Over time, as Methodism became a separate church, this structure of connexions came to form a new system of polity, separate from episcopal polity.\n\nConnexional polity in Britain has always been characterized by a strong central organization which holds an annual conference. The connexion is divided into districts in the charge of a chairperson. Methodist districts often correspond approximately, in geographical terms, to counties – as do Church of England dioceses. The districts are divided into circuits governed by the circuit meeting and led and administrated principally by a superintendent minister. Ministers are appointed to circuits rather than to individual churches. Most notably, there are no bishops in the British connexion. The term \"full connexion\" is used in Great Britain and in Ireland to refer to presbyters and deacons being \"subject to the rules and discipline of the Conference of the Methodist Church\", and specifically that they are subject to being stationed (i.e. appointed to ministry in a local circuit) at the direction of the conference.\n\nFree Methodist churches and United Methodist churches are generally organized on a connexional model, related but not identical to that used in Britain. Pastors are assigned to congregations by bishops, distinguishing it from presbyterian government. Methodist denominations typically give lay members representation at regional and national meetings (conferences) at which the business of the church is conducted, This connexional organizational model differs further from the congregational model, for example of Baptist and Congregationalist churches.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300456", "title": "Daniel P. O'Connell", "text": "Daniel P. O'Connell\n\nDaniel Patrick \"Dan\" O'Connell (November 13, 1885 – February 28, 1977) was a longtime leader of the Democratic Party political machine in Albany County, New York.\n\nO'Connell was born in Albany, New York and dropped out of school in the fifth grade, finding work as a bricklayer and as a bartender. In 1919, he was elected County Assessor. A few years later left that position to become the chairman of the County Democratic Committee. In 1921, O'Connell was instrumental in the mayoral election victory of William Stormont Hackett; Hackett's victory was a Democratic Party victory over a Republican political machine—led by William Barnes Jr.—that had been in power in Albany for over 20 years.\n\nDuring the 56 years to come, O'Connell had undeniable power in the political life of Albany, determining patronage and essentially ruling the city during the administrations of mayors William Hackett, John Boyd Thacher II and most notably Erastus Corning 2nd.\n\nAccording to author Paul Grondahl, O'Connell is suspected of having ordered the murder of gangster Legs Diamond in 1931.\n\nWilliam Kennedy's 1975 novel \"Billy Phelan's Greatest Game\" is based on the attempted 1933 kidnapping of O'Connell's nephew, John O'Connell Jr. Kennedy's 2002 novel \"Roscoe\" is a fictionalized account of O'Connell's life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300457", "title": "Nytt på nytt", "text": "Nytt på nytt\n\nNytt på nytt (literally: \"The News Anew\" or \"News on news\") is a Norwegian version of the British TV comedy panel show \"Have I Got News for You\" (made by Hat Trick Productions for the BBC). The programme, which goes out on Friday nights on NRK1, is a competition between a pair of two-person teams, with one permanent panellist and one guest player on each team. \n\nThe aim is for each of the teams to score points by correctly answering questions based on the week's news. In practice, however, the point-scoring element is secondary: although the final scores do get a brief mention at the end of the show, the entertainment chiefly comes from the witty remarks made by the panellists and the banter that passes between them. \n\nWhen the show was first launched, in the spring of 1999, Jon Almaas was the host, and the permanent panellists were Knut Nærum and Anne-Kat. Hærland. The current host is Bård Tufte Johansen, with permanent panellists Johan Golden and Pernille Sørensen. Sørensen replaced from the spring of 2015. Ingrid appeared in her last show on 20 February 2015. Over the years, \"Nytt på nytt\" has grown to become the most popular weekly show on Norwegian television, with more than a million viewers every week.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300460", "title": "Mother Love Bone (album)", "text": "Mother Love Bone (album)\n\nMother Love Bone (also known as Stardog Champion) is a compilation album by the American rock band Mother Love Bone. It was released on September 22, 1992, through Stardog/Mercury Records.\n\nThe album contains material from the EP \"Shine\" (1989) and the album \"Apple\" (1990). It was released by PolyGram subsidiary Stardog/Mercury Records after the band dissolved due to the death of vocalist Andrew Wood. The album charted at number 77 on the \"Billboard\" 200 album chart in 1992. Ira Robbins of \"Entertainment Weekly\" said, \"\"Mother Love Bone\"—the band's total output—suggests a young, hungry Aerosmith hooked on Led Zeppelin.\"\n\nThe album debuted at No. 77 on the \"Billboard\" 200 for chart dated October 10, 1992, selling 14,000 copies in the first week. The album has sold 410,000 copies in the United States as of September 2016.\n\nAll songs written by Jeff Ament, Bruce Fairweather, Greg Gilmore, Stone Gossard, and Andrew Wood.\n\nOn Thursday, March 15, 1990 (just 26 hours before Andy Wood's overdose), RIP writer Michael Browning and Andrew Wood conducted what might be his last interview. Mother Love Bone were scheduled to be a part of a RIP magazine-sponsored three-band tour supporting Apple, which was ready to be released. He describes the many of the song meanings:Andy Wood: \"Stardog Champion\" is a kinda...fake, kinda patriotic rock anthem of sorts. That's gonna be the first single and video. When I wrote \"Holy Roller,\" I didn't even know what a holy roller was. I just thought it was a cool term. Actually, I was thinking of a Paul McCartney and Wings song \"Let Me Roll It.\" I don't know why it made me think of holy rollers. \"Captain High-Top\" is just a total rock propaganda kinda thing. I kinda see \"Heartshine\" as our \"Achilles' Last Stand\" of the album. It's long and real powerful. I was kinda depressed about leaving Malfunkshun for a long time. Still am, kinda. I feel like, you know, I left them stranded. I've got a brother besides Kevin who, ah, is kinda insane in a way, and he makes the whole family worry about him, so \"Heartshine\" is a little about both of my brothers.RIP: \"Mr. Danny Boy\" is obviously a slam on Danny Thomas.A.W.: Yeah, I don't know why we decided to do such a mean thing to Danny.RIP: But you did.A.W.: That's right. No offense to Marlo. I still like her from ThatGirl[laughs].RIP: \"Come Bite the Apple,\" is there any significance to that?A.W.: That's a meaningful song. It's a \"Crown of Thorns\" type of song. The lyrics are personal, whereas some of the songs have absolutely nothing to do with me. \"Apple\" and \"Crown of Thorns\" are probably mostly about me. It's kind of a synopsis of the whole past year. I'm lucky to be sitting here.Andy Wood's former partner and muse Xana La Fuente, provides more clarity. Two songs are written about her:When Andy wrote and sang Stargazer to me it was special because he also wrote Chloe [Dancer] for me (that was about when I was going to be a stripper to support he and I, and left the place after one hour) but obviously having my real name in the song - not my stripper for a day name - was really flattering and made it extra special<nowiki>\"</nowiki>Crown of Thorns\" was written about a nasty. breakup between Andy and Xana over his on and-off-again dabbling in heroin and alcohol. \"This song is about a relationship ruined by drugs,\" she explains. \"He wrote it about our near breakup, and how I tried to control him and the drugs-hence his allusion to being tied to the ceiling.\" According to Xana, \"Andy was always ashamed of his addictions, choosing to lose himself in his music and poetry, bathing himself in concepts of real love and acceptance. `Stardog Champion‘ was one of his `anthem for survival’ songs. It was an up time, and he really felt he was beating it. He had a choir, children from the San Francisco area (made up of foster and abused children), come in and sing backing vocals on this song.\n"}
{"id": "2300464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300464", "title": "Brazos Bend State Park", "text": "Brazos Bend State Park\n\nBrazos Bend State Park is a state park along the Brazos River in Needville, Texas, run by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department. The park is a haven for a diverse mix of native wildlife and plants covering an equally diverse range of ecosystems. Brazos Bend contains areas of coastal prairie, bottomland forest, and a wide range of wetlands including open and semi-open lakes and transitional marshlands. Highlights of the Park's numerous inhabitants include over 300 species of resident and visiting migratory birds and mammals such as the white-tailed deer, nine-banded armadillo, raccoon, and North American river otter. The most noteworthy and popular residents of the park are the relatively large population of American alligators. The park is open year-round, with the exception of several weekends a year during which it is closed for controlled hunts to manage the white-tailed deer population.\n\nBrazos Bend State Park occupies land bordering the Brazos River and includes within its boundaries low-lying areas left over from the River's previous meanderings. Pre-Columbian inhabitants included a series of Native American groups, most notably the Karankawa. The land passed through a variety of landowners' hands, resulting in some of the existing structures on the Park grounds, including a brick cistern built with slave labor. The Park's current nature center is built into a structure previously utilized as a hunting cabin. Over the years, improvements were made to the various water bodies in the Park for both recreational and flood management purposes. A low-elevation levied walkway surrounds the perimeter of some of the larger water bodies (Elm Lake, 40 Acre Lake, etc.). While significant modifications were made to the land within the Park in the past, the current management strategy is to allow, in balance with the recreational elements of the Park's mission, the maintenance of a natural landscape. In 1984 the Park was officially opened to the public, its lands having been donated to the state several years previously. In 2009, the Park celebrated its 25th Anniversary with a variety of special events and recognitions. Today the Park is run by the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department, with the assistance of an active non-profit volunteer organization.\n\nAlthough it contains recreational day-use areas (including a dining hall, campground, and picnic areas) Brazos Bend is by primary character a natural park. Its recreational opportunities revolve around enjoyment of its diverse ecosystems and species. Popular activities include hiking, fishing, and wildlife viewing. Like in much of the upper Gulf Coast located along the northern vanguard areas of the Central Flyway migratory route, bird watching in Brazos Bend is a popular activity, especially during the migratory seasons. \nThe park offers numerous Scouting programs, an orienteering course and is a popular spot for geocaching.\n\nThe Texas Parks and Wildlife staff and the Brazos Bend State Park Volunteer Organization put on a variety of education programs on a weekly basis at the Park, and actively conduction outreach efforts in the local area. Popular programs include bird and photography hikes, alligator and snake education programs, and guided hikes of Creekfield Lake. In addition, a rotating assortment of crafts, story time and other educational programs are offered each week. Outside of scheduled programs, the Volunteer Organization also staffs and maintains a Nature Center containing live individuals representing many of the Park's venomous and nonvenomous native snake species, baby alligators, and a host of educational displays and activities.\n\nIn addition to the weekly hikes, educational programs, and other amenities offered by Park staff and volunteers, Brazos Bend plays host to a growing number of annual events and festivals. Highlights of the Park's yearly offerings include the A Simple Christmas celebration, Prairie Heritage Days, and the July 4th Bike Parade. The Park also hosts a variety of activities put on in conjunction with other entities, including the Christmas Bird Count and the Butterfly count, undertaken as part of the Audubon Society and North American Butterfly Association's national efforts, respectively. Brazos Bend State Park's Christmas Bird Count effort is routinely in the top 3-4% of the over 2000 Counts taking place in North America.\n\nThe park is also home to the George Observatory (code: ), a satellite facility of the Houston Museum of Natural Science. This astronomical observatory contains three domed telescopes; the largest is the Gueymard Research Telescope, which has an aperture of . The facility is primarily focused on public education; it includes the Challenger Learning Center for space science education and also features an exhibit of meteorites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300468", "title": "Rudolf Wagner", "text": "Rudolf Wagner\n\nRudolf Friedrich Johann Heinrich Wagner (30 July 1805 – 13 May 1864) was a German anatomist and physiologist and the co-discoverer of the germinal vesicle. He made important investigations on ganglia, nerve-endings, and the sympathetic nerves.\n\nRudolf Wagner was born at Bayreuth, where his father was a professor in the gymnasium.\nHe began the study of medicine at Erlangen in 1822. Wagner completed his curriculum in 1826 at Würzburg, where he mainly studied under Johann Lukas Schönlein in medicine and to Karl Friedrich Heusinger in comparative anatomy. Aided by a public stipend, he spent a year or more studying in the Jardin des Plantes, under the friendly eye of Cuvier, and making zoological discoveries at Cagliari and other places on the Mediterranean.\n\nOn his return to Germany he set up a medical practice at Augsburg, where his father had been transferred. A few months later he found an opening for an academic position when he was appointed prosector at Erlangen. In 1832 he became full professor of zoology and comparative anatomy there, and held that office until 1840, when he was called to succeed JF Blumenbach at Göttingen. He remained at the Hanoverian university until his death, being much occupied with administrative work as pro-rector for a number of years, and for nearly the whole of his residence troubled by ill health from tuberculosis.\n\nIn 1860 he gave over the physiological part of his teaching to a new chair, retaining the zoological, with which his career had begun. While at Frankfurt, on his way to examine the Neanderthal skull at Bonn, he was struck with paralysis. Wagner died at Göttingen a few months later on 13 May 1864.\n\nWagner's activity as a writer and worker was enormous, and his range extensive, most of his hard work having been done at Erlangen while his health was good. His graduation thesis was on the progress of the working classes. The ambitious title of \"The historical development of epidemic and contagious diseases all over the world, with the laws of their diffusion\" showed the influence of Schönlein.\n\nHis first treatise was \"Die Naturgeschichte des Menschen\" (in 2 vols, Kempten, 1831).\nFrequent journeys to the Mediterranean, the Adriatic, and the North Sea gave him abundant materials for research on invertebrate anatomy and physiology, which he communicated first to the Munich academy of sciences, and republished in his \"Beiträge zur vergleichenden Physiologie des Blutes\" (Leipzig, 1832–33, with additions in 1838).\nIn 1834–35, he brought out a textbook on the subject he chaired (\"Lehrbuch der vergleichenden Anatomie\", Leipzig), which recommended itself to students by its clear and concise style. A new edition of it appeared in 1843 under the title of \"Lehrbuch der Zootomie\", of which only the vertebrate section was corrected by himself.\n\nThe precision of his earlier work is evidenced by his \"Micrometric Measurements of the Elementary Parts of Man and Animals\" (Leipzig, 1834). His zoological labours may be said to conclude with the atlas \"Icones zootomicae\" (Leipzig, 1841).\nIn 1835, he communicated to the Munich academy of sciences his researches on the physiology of generation and development, including the famous discovery of the germinal vesicle of the human ovum.\n\nThese were republished under the title \"Prodromus historiae generationis hominis atque animalium\" (Leipzig, 1836).\nAs in zoology, his original researches in physiology were followed by a students' textbook, \"Lehrbuch der speciellen Physiologie\" (Leipzig, 1838), which soon reached a third edition, and was translated into French and English. This was supplemented by an atlas, \"Icones physiologicae\" (Leipzig, 1839).\n\nTo the same period belongs a very interesting (but now little-known) work on medicine proper, of a historical and synthetic scope: \"Grundriss der Encyklopädie und Methodologie der medicinischen Wissenschaften nach geschichtlicher Ansicht\" (Erlangen, 1838).\nIt was translated into Danish. About the same time he worked at a translation of James Cowles Prichard's \"Natural History of Man\", and edited various writings of Samuel Thomas Sommerring, with a biography of that anatomist (1844), which he himself fancied most of all his writings.\n\nIn 1843, after his removal to Göttingen, he began his great \"Handwörterbuch der Physiologie mit Rücksicht auf physiologische Pathologie\"123.13.24, and brought out the fifth (supplementary) volume in 1852. His only original contributions to this work were on the sympathetic nerve, nerve-ganglia and nerve-endings, and he modestly disclaimed all merit except as being the organizer. While resident in Italy for his health from 1845 to 1847, he occupied himself with research on the electrical organ of the torpedo genus of electric eels and on nervous organization generally; these he published in 1853–1854 (\"Neurologische Untersuchungen\", Göttingen), and therewith his physiological period may be said to end.\n\nHe boldly stood against materialism and avowed himself a Christian believer. This lost him the respect of a number of his old friends and pupils, and was unfeelingly told that he was \"suffering from an atrophy of the brain.\" His quarrel with Carl Vogt and other materialists began with his oration at the Göttingen meeting of the Naturforscher-Versammlung in 1854, on \"Menschenschöpfung und Seelensubstanz.\" This was followed by a series of \"Physiological Letters\" in the \"Allgemeine Zeitung\", by an essay on \"Glauben and Wissen,\" and by the most important piece of this series, \"Der Kampf um die Seele vom Standpunkt der Wissenschaft\" (Göttingen, 1857).\n\nHaving come to the consideration of these philosophical problems late in life, he was at some disadvantage; but he endeavoured to join as he best could in the current of contemporary German thought. He had an exact knowledge of classical German writings, especially of Goethe's, and of the literature connected with him.\n\nIn what may be called his fourth and last period, Wagner became an anthropologist and archaeologist. He occupied himself with the cabinet of skulls in the Göttingen museum collected by Blumenbach and with the excavation of prehistoric remains, corresponded actively with the anthropological societies of Paris and London, and organized, in co-operation with the veteran Karl Ernst von Baer, a successful congress of anthropologists at Göttinger in 1861. His last writings were memoirs on the convolutions of the human brain, on the weight of brains, and on the brains of idiots (1860–1862).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300478", "title": "Dundrennan Abbey", "text": "Dundrennan Abbey\n\nDundrennan Abbey, in Dundrennan, Scotland, near to Kirkcudbright, was a Cistercian monastery in the Romanesque architectural style, established in 1142 by Fergus of Galloway, King David I of Scotland (1124–53), and monks from Rievaulx Abbey. Though extensively ruined (the transepts are the main surviving parts), Dundrennan is noted for the purity and restraint of its architecture, reflecting the austere Cistercian ideal. It is also built from very hard-weathering grey sandstone, so the original architectural forms and mouldings are well preserved.\n\nMary, Queen of Scots, after the Battle of Langside, spent her final night in Scotland here, in 1568. From neighbouring Port Mary, she crossed the Solway Firth to Workington, and shortly after was imprisoned by the English.\n\nIn 1587, following the Scottish Reformation, the land passed to the Crown. The site fell into ruin after it was subsequently used to house livestock. Historic Environment Scotland maintains the site today as a scheduled monument.\n\nIn the mid 12th century, Fergus of Galloway resurrected the Bishopric of Whithorn, an ancient Galwegian See first established by the expansionary Northumbrians under the jurisdiction of the Archbishop of York. The last Bishop of Whithorn, Beadwulf, had been noted in c. 803. Thereafter nothing is heard; and it is likely the Bishopric disappeared with Northumbrian power, a decline marked by the sack and subsequent occupation of York by the Danes in 867. In the following two and a half centuries, Galloway, if and where jurisdiction actually existed, seems to have been under the jurisdiction of the Bishop of Man in the west, with Durham and Glasgow in the east.\n\nMoves to resurrect the See were initiated on 9 December 1125, when Pope Honorius II wrote to the Bishop-elect of Whithorn, ordering him to appear before the Archbishop of York. The would-be Bishop was a cleric called Gille Aldan, and the Archbishop was Thurstan. York had been coming under increasing pressure from the ambitions of Canterbury, and the northern English metropolitan had only two suffragans (Durham and Man). He needed three in fact to hold proper Archiepiscopal elections. It is likely that York and Fergus did a deal. The involvement of King David I can be discounted on the grounds of his anti-York policies, and his total inclination to appoint English or French clerics, and not Gaelic ones like Gille Aldan. The deal ensured the Galwegian church would not undermine Fergus’ independence of both Man or Scotland, and secured an identity for the new kingdom in the framework of northern Britain and the Isles.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300482", "title": "Smith's Prize", "text": "Smith's Prize\n\nThe Smith's Prize was the name of each of two prizes awarded annually to two research students in mathematics and theoretical physics at the University of Cambridge from 1769. Following the reorganization in 1998, they are now awarded under the names Smith-Knight Prize and Rayleigh-Knight Prize.\n\nThe Smith Prize fund was founded by bequest of Robert Smith upon his death in 1768, having by his will left £3,500 of South Sea Company stock to the University. Every year two or more junior Bachelor of Arts students who had made the greatest progress in mathematics and natural philosophy were to be awarded a prize from the fund. The prize was awarded every year from 1769 to 1998 except 1917.\n\nFrom 1769 to 1885, the prize was awarded for the best performance in a series of examinations. In 1854 George Stokes included an examination question on a particular theorem that William Thomson had written to him about, which is now known as Stokes' theorem. T. W. Körner notes\n\nOnly a small number of students took the Smith's prize examination in the nineteenth century. When Karl Pearson took the examination in 1879, the examiners were Stokes, Maxwell, Cayley, and Todhunter and the examinees went on each occasion to an examiner's dwelling, did a morning paper, had lunch there and continued their work on the paper in the afternoon.\nIn 1885, the examination was renamed \"Part III\", (now known as the Certificate of Advanced Study in Mathematics) and the prize was awarded for the best submitted essay rather than examination performance. According to Barrow-Green\n\nBy fostering an interest in the study of applied mathematics, the competition contributed towards the success in mathematical physics that was to become the hallmark of Cambridge mathematics during the second half of the nineteenth century.\nIn the twentieth century, the competition stimulated postgraduate research in mathematics in Cambridge and the competition has played a significant role by providing a springboard for graduates considering an academic career. The majority of prize-winners have gone on to become professional mathematicians or physicists.\n\nThe Rayleigh Prize was an additional prize, which was awarded for the first time in 1911.\n\nThe Smith's and Rayleigh prizes were only available to Cambridge graduate students who had been undergraduates at Cambridge. The J.T. Knight Prize was established in 1974 for Cambridge graduates who had been undergraduates at other universities. The prize commemorates J.T. Knight (1942–1970), who had been an undergraduate student at Glasgow and a graduate student at Cambridge. He was killed in a motor car accident in Ireland in April 1970.\nOriginally, in 1769, the prizes were worth £25 each and remained at that level for 100 years. In 1867, they fell to £23 and in 1915 were still reported to be worth that amount. By 1930, the value had risen to about £30, and by 1940, the value had risen by a further one pound to £31. By 1998, a Smith's Prize was worth around £250.\n\nIn 2007, the value of the three prize funds was roughly £175,000.\n\nIn 1998 the Smith Prize, Rayleigh Prize and J. T. Knight Prize were replaced by the Smith-Knight Prize and Rayleigh-Knight Prize, the standard for the former being higher than that required for the latter.\n\nFor the period up to 1940 a complete list is given in including titles of prize essays from 1889–1940. The following is a selection from this list.\n\nA more complete list of Rayleigh prize recipients is given in Appendix 1 (\"List of Prize Winners and their Essays 1885-1940\") of\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300501", "title": "La Vie Claire", "text": "La Vie Claire\n\nLa Vie Claire was a professional road bicycle racing team named after its chief sponsor La Vie Claire, a chain of health food stores.\n\nThe La Vie Claire team was created in 1984 by Bernard Tapie and directed by Paul Köechli. The team included five-time Tour de France winner Bernard Hinault, and three-time winner, Greg LeMond, as well as Andrew Hampsten and the Canadian Steve Bauer. With Hinault winning the Tour in 1985, and LeMond winning in 1986, plus winning the team trophy both years, La Vie Claire cemented their place in cycling team history.\nThe team formed after Bernard Hinault had a dispute with his former directeur sportif Cyrille Guimard of Renault-Elf-Gitane with whom Hinault had won four editions of the Tour de France. After Hinault's teammate Laurent Fignon won the 1983 Tour de France while Hinault was injured, Fignon became the designated leader of the team. Hinault formed the La Vie Claire team with Tapie and Koechli and steadily built up his form. During the 1984 Tour de France, Renault-Elf-Gitane dominated the race with 8 stage wins including the Team time trial as well as wearing the yellow jersey from the 5th stage onward with Vincent Barteau and Laurent Fignon. Fignon won the Tour by over ten minutes from Hinault. In addition with World Champion Greg LeMond the Renault team also finished third overall in that Tour and LeMond won the Young rider's jersey. After this dominance by the Renault-Elf-Gitane team, Tapie and Hinault approached Greg LeMond after the 1984 Tour with a one-million dollar contract offer - the first in cycling history - to leave Renault-Elf-Gitane and join Hinault at La Vie Claire. LeMond accepted and forever changed the salary structure in bicycle racing. With Hinault and LeMond the team won the 1985 and the 1986 Tour de France. At the end of 1986, Hinault retired and in the spring of 1987 LeMond was injured in a hunting accident. Hampsten who had finished fourth in the 1986 Tour de France and as best young rider left the team at the end of 1986. Jean-François Bernard was seen by some as a successor to Hinault in stage races and became the leader of the team. Bernard led the general classification during the 1987 Tour de France and finished third overall, and led the general classification during the 1988 Giro d'Italia but then never regained the form to perform in the grand tours for the team. The team itself was undergoing further changes - LeMond and Bauer left the team at the end of 1987 and Koechli and Tapie stopped directing the team in 1988 and 1989. During the latter years of the team, Laurent Jalabert and Tony Rominger were team leaders and earned success for the team.\n\nThe La Vie Claire colors (red, yellow, blue and gray) were based on the artwork of Piet Mondrian, giving them a unique appearance in the peloton during the 80s Tours de France. \nThe La Vie Claire jersey, originally designed by Benetton, went through at least five major revisions between 1984-1988 as the team partnered different sponsors (Radar, Wonder, Toshiba, LOOK (and Red Zinger and Celestial Seasonings when racing on American soil)). The design (sleeves: yellow and grey; chest: pattern of rectangles in different sizes and colors) is considered one of the most memorable jersey designs in cycling. Manufactured by Santini of Italy, it is still very popular with cycling fans, topping a cyclingnews.com poll in 2018. From 1987, Toshiba became the main sponsor of the team and from 1988 onwards La Vie Claire withdrew their sponsorship. The jersey was redesigned in 1990. The Toshiba team continued until the end of the 1991 season.\n\nAlso strongly associated with La Vie Claire was the French company LOOK, which made the first clipless pedals, and which was owned by Tapie at that time.\nLa Vie Claire was among the first to use carbon fiber frames in the Tour de France. The team switched in 1986 from their previous supplier, Hinault, to carbon fiber frames and forks by TVT. In 1989 the team rode a carbon-fiber frame/fork manufactured by LOOK and fitted with titanium components. In the same year, the team began to use heart rate monitors in training and racing, a technology that the traditional training culture in cycling at first resisted.\n\nIn the 1985 Tour, LeMond was far ahead of the pack when the team boss Bernard Tapie and coach Paul Koechli asked him to slow down, saying Hinault, who had won four Tours and was going for his record-tying fifth, was right behind. LeMond kept waiting until he realized he'd been tricked; Hinault was more than three minutes behind. Hinault went on to win that year's tour, and in return, LeMond was assured by Hinault that he would support LeMond the following year. In 1986, Hinault rode an aggressive race, which he insisted was to deter and demoralize their mutual rivals. He claimed his tactics were to wear down LeMond's (and his) opponents and that he knew that LeMond would win because of time losses earlier in the race. However, LeMond saw this as a betrayal and accused Hinault of reneging on his promise. In LeMond's words, \"He totally tried screwing me. But I don't blame him.\" As the 1986 Tour wore on, loyalties among LeMond and Hinault's teammates split along national lines, with the Americans and British supporting LeMond and the French and Belgians backing Hinault. Andrew Hampsten said of the 1986 Tour: \"It was rotten being on the team... Steve Bauer and I had to chase down Hinault on the stage into St Etienne. That really sucked.\" The competition, abandoned promises, and high stakes in the LeMond-Hinault controversy makes it one of the most public and bitter rivalries between teammates in cycling history.\n\n(1) Bryan Malessa, \"Once Was King: An interview with Greg LeMond\"\nhttp://www.roble.net/marquis/coaching/lemond98.html\n\n(2) Andrew Hampsten: The Interview\nhttp://www.pezcyclingnews.com/?pg=fullstory&id=1202\n\n(3) Inside Cycling with John Wilcockson: Hinault takes a big early lead in dramatic '85 Tour [filed Nov. 28, 2005]\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20070929083304/http://www.velonews.com/news/fea/9206.0.html\n"}
{"id": "2300506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300506", "title": "Deutsche Bank Building", "text": "Deutsche Bank Building\n\nThe Deutsche Bank Building (formerly Bankers Trust Plaza) was a 39-story office skyscraper located at 130 Liberty Street in Manhattan, New York City, adjacent to the World Trade Center site. The building opened in 1974 and closed following the September 11 attacks in 2001, due to contamination that spread from the collapse of the South Tower. The structure was designed by Shreve, Lamb & Harmon, which also designed the Empire State Building.\n\nThe building was purchased by Deutsche Bank when it acquired Bankers Trust in 1998. It was part of the skyline of Lower Manhattan, and was demolished between 2007 and 2011. 5 World Trade Center will eventually replace the building, expanding the ground space on which the World Trade Center stands, as this land was not part of the original World Trade Center.\n\nThe collapse of the South Tower during the September 11 attacks tore a 24-story gash into the facade of the building. Steel and concrete protruded from the building for months afterward, which was eventually cleaned up. However, due to extensive contamination, Deutsche Bank decided that the 39-story ruin was to be taken down. During the cleanup and recovery period, netting was placed inside gashes and holes to prevent collapse. The owner maintained that the building could not be restored to habitable condition, while its insurers sought to treat the incident as recoverable damage rather than a total loss. Work on the building was deferred for over two years during which the condition of the building deteriorated.\n\nIn September 2005, human remains were found on the roof, and in March 2006, construction workers found more bone fragments and remains. This prompted calls from victims' family members for another search of the building by forensic experts. Between April 7 and April 14, 2006, more than 700 human bone fragments were discovered in the ballast gravel on the roof.\n\nThe cost of demolition had steadily increased to $75 million by Bovis Lend Lease, as large amounts of asbestos, dioxin, lead, silica, quartz, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, chromium, and manganese had been found within the building.\n\nIn 2004, an agreement was announced to settle the disposition of the building and insurance claims. As part of this agreement, the Lower Manhattan Development Corporation acquired the land and commenced demolition work. On December 7, 2006, the Associated Press reported that the building would be dismantled. The report indicated that nearby residents were fearful of possible toxic dust associated with the Twin Towers within the building.\n\nOn May 17, 2007, work was halted after a 22-foot section of pipe fell 35 stories and landed on the roof of \"The Ten House\", home to Engine 10 and Ladder 10 of the New York City Fire Department. Two firefighters were injured by falling debris, although they were not struck by the pipe itself.\nOn August 18, 2007, at approximately 3:40 p.m., a seven-alarm fire broke out on the 17th floor of the building, caused by workers smoking in violation of the building's safety rules. Around this time, crews were removing one floor per week, and the building had only 26 more. At the time of the fire, crews were removing asbestos. The fire spread in both directions, affecting a total of 10 floors. The floors were also filled with a maze of protective polyethylene sheets, which were designed to prevent the spread of asbestos, and also trapped smoke. The building lacked a standpipe, making it extremely difficult to put out the fire. The building had not been inspected since March, when it should have been inspected every 15 days. The fire burned into the night before being extinguished, and numerous special and support units responded from the New York City Fire Department to combat the fire. The fire killed two FDNY firefighters, Robert Beddia of Engine Company 24, and Joseph Graffagnino of Ladder Company 5, who succumbed on the 14th floor to smoke inhalation and carbon monoxide poisoning. The fire also injured 115 other firefighters, 46 of which were seriously enough to require medical leave. Plans to demolish the building continued as quickly as possible.\nIn 2008, the Manhattan District Attorney indicted three construction supervisors and the demolition subcontractor, John Galt Corporation. A city stop-work order was lifted in April 2008 and decontamination work began again in May of the same year.\nDismantling was originally scheduled to be completed by the end of 2008, and later by the end of 2010. In October 2009, it was announced that dismantling of the building would finally resume.\n\nDemolition was completed on January 20, 2011 with the removal of the crane. Demolition of the first floor and foundation was finished on February 28, 2011. It was the last part of the building to be removed.\n\nThe Port Authority of New York and New Jersey took over the site as its developer. The site is occupied by the Vehicular Security Center and Liberty Park, while the 5 World Trade Center is in the planning stages.\n\nNegotiations over the World Trade Center site concluded in April 2006 with private developer Larry Silverstein yielding his right to develop on the site designated for One World Trade Center and Tower Five to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey in exchange for assistance in financing Towers Two, Three, and Four. Mayor Michael Bloomberg claimed there wasn't enough demand for office space to fill the five skyscrapers included in the World Trade Center's master plan, and called for a major revision of the plan to include housing or hotels. However, the demand for Manhattan office space, including downtown, has been booming since 2006, and on January 16, 2007, the investment bank JPMorgan Chase was in talks with the Port Authority about developing a 42-story skyscraper, which would prevent Mayor Bloomberg's push to use the site for housing.\n\nSeveral sources familiar with JPMorgan Chase's talks with Port Authority officials said the firm's bid to develop a proposed 42-story tower for major corporate tenants is being taken seriously by the bistate agency. To make the commercial deal work, the Port Authority would have to agree to expand the size of Tower 5's base in order to accommodate the large, lower-level floors needed for trading rooms, a requirement for most large financial-services firms.\nThe Port Authority hired Kohn Pederson Fox to design a 42-story skyscraper with a cantilevered section starting at the 14th floor to accommodate the large trading floors. \n\nOn June 14, 2007, Bloomberg and then-Governor Eliot Spitzer announced that JPMorgan Chase had won the bid to buy and build the new tower at 130 Liberty Street to replace the Deutsche Bank Building. However, after the acquisition of Bear Stearns by JPMorgan Chase in March 2008, the future of 130 Liberty Street has been put into question as JPMorgan Chase has announced that it intends to move into Bear Stearns' old headquarters at 383 Madison Avenue. If JPMorgan Chase does not renew their bid, the site would likely be used for a residential or hotel tower, as per Bloomberg's plan prior to JPMorgan Chase's bid. Recently, community and civic leaders met to discuss the site's future with community leaders favoring a hotel or residential development and outgoing deputy mayor Robert Lieber favoring an office tower.\n\nOn October 14, 2011, the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, which controls rebuilding at Ground Zero, and St. Nicholas Greek Orthodox Church announced an agreement that allows the church to build a 4,100-square-foot church and interfaith bereavement center at 130 Liberty Street. The original church, which was located at 155 Cedar Street and founded by Greek immigrants in 1916, was the only religious building to be completely destroyed during the 9/11 attacks. , the church has not been completed.\n\nDelays in taking down the Deutsche Bank at Ground Zero forced the Port Authority to delay the expected completion date of the crucial Vehicular Security Center. Repeated delays had also added roughly $100 million to the cost of rebuilding the World Trade Center. Originally projected to open in 2013, it opened in June 2016 following the completion of Liberty Park, which is on top of the garage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300508", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: A", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: A\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter A.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300509", "title": "Uqaylid dynasty", "text": "Uqaylid dynasty\n\nThe Uqaylid dynasty () was a Shi'a Arab dynasty with several lines that ruled in various parts of Al-Jazira, northern Syria and Iraq in the late tenth and eleventh centuries. The main line, centered in Mosul, ruled from 990 to 1096.\n\nThe 'Uqaylids were descended from the Banu Uqayl and were Shi'a. They first came to power in Diyar Bakr when they were granted land there by the Buwayhids, who hoped that they would serve as a buffer against the Kurd Bādh ibn Dustak. Soon afterwards the 'Uqaylids forged an alliance with the Hamdanids, who had been expelled from Mosul by the Buwayhids in 979. Together the two of them moved against the Buyids and Mosul and the Diyar Rabi'a was occupied in 989. The 'Uqaylid leader, Muhammad b. Musayyib, then fought against Bādh, which eventually resulted in the death of the Kurdish rebel. Following this, Muhammad turned against the Hamdanids and defeating them as well. He also forced the Buwayhid governor of Mosul to grant him half of his dependencies.\n\nMuhammad b. Musayyib died in 996. He was succeeded by his brother Muqallad, who in that same year marched on Mosul, forcing its Buwayhid governor to flee. From there the 'Uqaylids advanced into Iraq; they succeeded in overrunning much of the country and even raiding Baghdad. Eventually the Buwayhid amir Baha' al-Dawla came to terms with Muqallad, whereby the Uqaylid was invested by the caliph with the rule of Mosul, Kufa and Jami'yan. He was also given the title of \"Husam al-Dawla\". The treaty made Muqallad nominally subservient to the Buwayhids but in effect he was independent, refusing to pay the tribute that he owed.\n\nDespite the treaty, Muqallad still desired to take Baghdad, and might have done so had he not been assassinated by one of his Turkish slaves in 1001. This marked the beginning of the long reign of Muqallad's son, Qirwash. In 1002 Qirwash raided Buwayhid territory, prompting Baha' al-Dawla's governor of Baghdad to undertake an expedition against the 'Uqaylids. Defeated at first, he eventually managed gain a victory over them near Kufa, but at this point was removed from his post as governor, preventing him from following up on this success. In 1005 Qirwash was confirmed in all of his possessions by the caliph, who gave him the title \"Mu'tamid al-Dawla\".\n\nQirwash's major problem during the second half of his reign was finding a way to control the Oghuz Turks who were coming in from Iran. The Oghuz even managed to occupy and sack Mosul in 1044, although Qirwash was able to expel them with the support of the Mazyadids. In 1050 Qirwash was removed from power by his brother Baraka (\"Za'im al-Dawla\"), who reigned until 1052 when he died. Baraka's son Quraysh (\"'Alam al-Din\") succeeded him and ruled for the next nine years. During his reign he acknowledged the supremacy of the Seljuks, although he later came into conflict with them and was temporarily expelled from Mosul. He accompanied the Turk Basasiri when the latter took Baghdad at the end of 1058, but the Seljuks retook the city in the next year.\n\nQuraysh died in 1061 and was followed by his son Muslim (\"Sharaf al-Dawla\"). Sharaf al-Dawla was a just ruler; the 'Uqaylid domains were relatively stable for most of his reign. He furthermore gained Aleppo from the Mirdasids in 1080 when its inhabitants offered to hand the city over to him in the hopes that he could protect from Seljuk raids, and he took Harran from the Numayrids in the following year. Soon, however, he ran into trouble with the Seljuks himself. He fought against Sultan Malik Shah's forces and was defeated, but he was pardoned. In 1085 he was killed fighting the Seljuks of Süleyman b. Qutulmush. Following Sharaf al-Dawla's death, his brother Ibrahim, who had previously been imprisoned, was released and declared as his successor. Süleyman meanwhile had been killed by the Seljuk ruler of Damascus, Tutush, who went on to seize Aleppo from the 'Uqaylids in 1086.\n\nIn 1089 or 1090 Ibrahim was summoned to the court of Malik Shah. When he arrived he was imprisoned and was kept close to Malik Shah's side. Mosul during this time was managed by the Seljuk vizier Fakhr al-Dawla ibn Jahir. When Malik Shah died in 1092 a fight between Sharaf al-Dawla's sons Ali and Muhammad ensued. Ali was brought by his mother Safiyya to Mosul, but Muhammad attempted to take the city for himself. In a battle at Mosul he was defeated and forced to flee. Ibrahim, meanwhile, had been released by Malik Shah's widow so he returned to Mosul, and eventually convinced Safiyya to give up the city to him.\n\nIbrahim managed to keep his renewed power for only a short time. The emir of Damascus, Tutush, demanded that he recognize him as sultan in the khutba and allow him passage through his territory. Ibrahim refused, prompting Tutush to move his army against him. The two sides met outside Mosul in April 1093, and in the ensuing battle he was defeated and captured by the Seljuk. Tutush had him executed before installing Ali and his mother Safiyya as his representatives in Mosul.\n\nMuhammad b. Sharaf al-Daula continued to attempt gain Mosul. He recruited the Turkish commander Kerbogha and his brother Tuntash, but Kerbogha imprisoned him. He then attempted to take Mosul from Ali but failed. Kerbogha then executed Muhammad and tried again to take Mosul. As the siege continued, Ali decided to flee to the Mazyadids. Kerbogha eventually gained control of the city in late 1096 and became its amir, ending 'Uqaylid rule there.\n\nSeveral other 'Uqailid lines were established in various areas, including Jazirat ibn Umar, Takrit, Hīt, and Ukbara (whose ruler, Gharib b. Muhammad once gave refuge to the Buwayhid amir Jalal al-Daula when he found it necessary to leave Baghdad). Some of these lines were still extant after the overthrow of the 'Uqailids in Mosul, with one branch in Raqqa and Qal'at Ja'bar lasting until 1169 when it was ended by the Zengids.\n\nAfter the Banu 'Uqail lost power in Iraq and Syria, they migrated to pasture grounds in Arabia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300513", "title": "Reservoir Songs", "text": "Reservoir Songs\n\nReservoir Songs is an EP recorded by the indie rock band Crooked Fingers and released in 2002. A five song EP which collects some of the band's favorite covers which they had been playing for the past couple of years on tour, it marks the first release for Crooked Fingers on the Merge Records label. It was recorded January 11–15, 2002 in Atlanta, GA and mastered by John Golden with additional production by Andy Baker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300517", "title": "Coca-Cola Raspberry", "text": "Coca-Cola Raspberry\n\nCoca-Cola Raspberry is a Coca-Cola drink with a raspberry flavor that was sold in New Zealand on a trial basis. A Diet Coke Raspberry version was also sold. Both were first introduced on June 1, 2005 and had been discontinued by the end of the year. In the summer of 2017, the drink was brought back in New Zealand for a limited release. It was reintroduced as a summer flavor in Australia.\n\nIn August 2018 Raspberry was offered as a zero sugar flavor in Finland and Norway, and this flavor was further launched in the UK in January 2019. Raspberry is now also offered by REMA 1000 in Denmark as Zero flavor 1.5L bottles in April 2019, and in 600ml bottles in Taiwan as of as early as 2019.\n\nRaspberry was the third flavor added to original Coke in New Zealand. The others are vanilla coke and cherry coke. Raspberry Coke was initially posted on US auction sites, with bottles selling in the $10 US dollar range. It is now generally no longer available and would be considered extremely rare and collectable. , remaining supplies have been exhausted and are not available for sale via online auctions or retail outlets. The only remaining place that Coca-Cola Raspberry can be found is in Coca-Cola Freestyle touch-screen soda fountains. It is also available in selected Burger King restaurants in the UK. Raspberry Coke was a popular flavor available in Australia through Summer 2017-2018 along with Coffee Coke and Ginger Coke.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300521", "title": "XHTO-FM", "text": "XHTO-FM\n\nXHTO-FM (104.3 MHz \"104.3 HITfm\") is an English-language Top 40 (CHR) radio station. The city of license is Ciudad Juárez, Chihuahua, and it serves Mexico-U.S. border communities, including the El Paso metropolitan area. \n\nThe station is owned by Grupo Radiorama and operated by Grupo Radio Centro (GRM Communications in USA). While its transmitter is in Mexico, XHTO broadcasts in English and it maintains its studios and sales office in El Paso.\n\nXHTO was originally owned by Joaquín Vargas Gómez, founder of MVS Radio. In 1977, the station was transferred to Frecuencia Modulada de Ciudad Juárez, S.A., which was later sold to Grupo Radiorama. Sometime in the 2000s, Grupo Radio México took the control of XHTO-FM from Radiorama, which holds its concession. In 2015, the merger of Grupo Radio México into co-owned Grupo Radio Centro resulted in GRC taking control of XHTO.\n\nXHTO, which originally was a English adult contemporary outlet as Stereorey under Joaquín Vargas Gómez, changed to an Spanish contemporary outlet under Radiorama, and then to an English-language top 40/contemporary hit radio (CHR) format under Grupo Radio México in 2001. By 2003, it shifted directions to rhythmic contemporary music to compete directly against KPRR. As of September 2013, the station returned to a mainstream CHR presentation, albeit still featuring a dance/rhythmic lean, and reports to Mediabase as a mainstream Top 40.\n"}
{"id": "2300522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300522", "title": "List of female movie actors by name", "text": "List of female movie actors by name\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors. Due to the size of the list, it has been split by letter.\n<section begin=TOC />\nSome actors on this list are also well-known because of their roles in films and television series, and are therefore included both in this list and the list of television actors. \n\n\"Note:\" In some forms of current English usage, the terms \"actor\" or \"female actor\" are often used in place of the more widespread \"actress\".\n\n<section end=TOC />\n\n"}
{"id": "2300530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300530", "title": "Jacopo Caraglio", "text": "Jacopo Caraglio\n\nJacopo Caraglio, Giovanni Jacopo Caraglio or Gian Giacomo Caraglio (c. 1500/1505 – 26 August 1565) known also as \"Jacobus Parmensis\" and \"Jacobus Veronensis\" was an Italian engraver, goldsmith and medallist, born at Verona or Parma. His career falls easily into two rather different halves: he worked in Rome from 1526 or earlier as an engraver in collaboration with leading artists, and then in Venice, before moving to spend the rest of his life as a court goldsmith in Poland, where he died.\n\nIn Italy, he was one of the first reproductive printmakers, rendering versions of specially made drawings (mostly) or paintings rather than creating new works for the print medium, although detailed comparison of surviving drawings with the prints made from them show he had input into the creative process. He was in Rome at the brief period when the small but flourishing printmaking industry created by Raphael working with engravers to diffuse his work had been disrupted by Raphael's sudden death in 1520, cutting off the supply of new designs, and other artists were recruited fill the gap.\n\nA. Hyatt Mayor describes Caraglio as \"the most individual member of the group\", who had a particular influence on French printmaking of the First School of Fontainebleau, although unlike Rosso he never went there. His skill in engraving was available to artists developing the early style of full-blown Mannerism, and played a significant role in diffusing advanced Mannerist style around Italy and Europe.\n\nCaraglio was probably trained as a goldsmith before learning advanced engraving techniques from Marcantonio Raimondi, in whose circle in Rome he first appears in records in 1526. Raphael's former associate il Baviera, who probably acted as his \"publisher\", introduced him to Rosso Fiorentino, with whom he collaborated on numerous prints, including sets of \"The Labours of Hercules\" (Bartsch 44–49), \"Pagan Divinities in Niches\" (Bartsch 24–43) and \"Loves of the Gods\" (Bartsch 9-23). He engraved gems and designed and cast medals as well as producing reproductive engravings after the works of Rosso, Parmigianino, Giulio Romano, Baccio Bandinelli, Raphael, Titian, Michelangelo, and Perino del Vaga. Bartsch records 65 prints, though missing perhaps another five. His style is summarized by Françoise Jestaz: \"Numbered with Agostino dei Musi and Marco Dente in the Roman school of engravers in the circle of Raimondi, Caraglio showed a greater freedom of line. With Rosso Fiorentino and Parmigianino, he discovered new modelling effects with subtler lighting and more animated forms, for example in his engraving of Diogenes (b. 61) and in the first state of the Rape of the Sabine Women (b. 63).\"\n\nHe worked from drawings created by Rosso and others for the purpose, and a proof of a print after Rosso at Chatsworth House has a landscape background in pen added to printed figures, presumably by one of the two, Rosso's initial drawing having only included the figures. He worked closely with Rosso and Parmigianino, and a number of their drawings for his prints survive, usually at the same size and in the reverse sense of the prints.\n\nHis \"Loves of the Gods\" were, with \"I Modi\", one of the \"two best-known series of Renaissance erotic prints\", and altogether one of the most successful Renaissance print series. Unlike \"I Modi\" they successfully avoided censorship by avoiding depicting genitals and actual penetration in favour of \"slung leg\" positions, and by virtue of their ostensibly mythological subjects. This was despite one showing two males, Apollo and Hyacinthus, together, if not actually making love. Both sets were much copied, with five different copies of Caraglio's set, and in 1550 a dealer bought 250 sets of French copies, a very large number for the time. They were even used as sources for illustrations in medical textbooks later in the century, as well as one of a set of Flemish tapestries of about 1550, now in the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York. The first two designs were by Rosso, but the pair then fell out, and Pierino did most of the rest, probably with an unknown weaker artist contributing some designs. Caraglio's prints were also often used as sources to be expanded into designs for maiolica.\n\nCaraglio fled to Venice on the Sack of Rome in 1527, in which his colleague Marco Dente was killed, and the whole circle dispersed. He seems to have remained there until at least 1537, working with Titian and others.\n\nIn 1539 he is recorded at the Polish court of Sigismund I. He had probably been introduced there through Pietro Aretino, a friend in Venice, and his contacts with the circle of the Italian-born Polish Queen Bona Sforza (1494–1557), such as Allesandro Pessenti, Bona's organist. In Poland he mostly worked for the court on medals, gems and goldsmithing rather than printmaking. Vasari presents this as, in Caraglio's view, a step up the hierarchy of genres and as offering a better social position, and indeed the status of printmaking was on the decline as the merely reproductive print, commissioned by publishers, had largely driven out the original print.\n\nThe Renaissance medal was a novelty in the Polish court, but promoted by Bona, and in July 1539 Caraglio wrote to Aretino enclosing two medals, one of Pesenti and the other of Bona, the first evidence of his presence in Poland. Some copies of the former survive, but none of Bona's medal, as of some other recorded ones Caraglio made in Poland. Only one copy survives of the medal he made of Sigismund I in 1538 from the gold sent as dowry for the wedding of Elizabeth of Austria (1526–1545), the first wife of the future Sigismund II, which was handed out to wedding guests.\nCaraglio was appointed royal goldsmith to Sigismund I in 1545, with a salary (probably more a retainer in modern terms) of 60 zloties, and continued serving under Sigismund II Augustus from 1548, when Sigismund I died. Having taken citizenship in Krakow, he was knighted (as \"equitatis aureati\"), with a patent of nobility, in April 1552, after which he made a brief return trip to Italy. It was presumably on this visit that the portrait now in the Wawel Castle in Krakow by Paris Bordone was made to celebrate his knighthood. The royal white eagle has the monogram of Sigismund II on its chest, and the upper background shows the Roman amphitheatre at Verona; on the bench are the tools of a goldsmith rather than a printmaker.\n\nIn 1565, he is recorded in a court action over a debt of 80 zloties owed by another Italian emigre artist, the sculptor Giammaria Mosca, known as \"Padovano\", which Caraglio claimed from the executors of yet another Italian, a royal doctor, whose tomb Padovano had completed. Caraglio married a Polish woman and acquired property, and died in Krakow, where he is buried in the Carmelite church. Vasari apparently did not know this, but probably knew that he was buying land near Parma in anticipation of a retirement that never arrived. \nHe was also known as \"Cahalius\" or \"Jacobus Veronensis\" or \"Parmensis\", the latter presumably after his estate near Parma, and these were used to sign some plates. Caraglio has never been the subject of a monograph.\n\nA small number of identifiable surviving works other than prints include signed intaglios in the Bibliothèque nationale de France in Paris (the \"Annunciation to the Shepherds\" in rock crystal) and the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York (Queen Bona), and an unsigned attributed piece in the Ambrosiana in Milan (Bona in crystal), medals in Padua and elsewhere, and cameos in Munich (illustrated) and elsewhere. He also produced relief plaquettes in bronze.\n\nAbout 70 prints by Caraglio are known, from 1526 to 1551. They include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300535", "title": "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse", "text": "Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\n\nMickey Mouse Clubhouse is an American interactive computer-animated children's television series which aired from May 5, 2006 to November 6, 2016. The series is Disney Television Animation's first computer-animated series aimed at preschoolers. The series was created by Disney veteran Gannaway, who is also responsible for other preschool shows, such as \"Jake and the Never Land Pirates\" and for Disneytoon Studios films including \"Secret of the Wings\", \"The Pirate Fairy\", and \"\". The final episode aired on November 6, 2016.\n\nThe show includes Wayne Allwine's final performance as Mickey Mouse before his death in 2009.\nSince the show’s cancellation, reruns air on Disney Junior.\n\nMickey, Minnie, Pluto, Goofy, Daisy, and Donald interact with the viewer to stimulate problem solving during each episode's story. Disney says that each episode has the characters help children \"solve a specific age-appropriate problem utilizing basic math skills, such as identifying shapes and counting through ten\". The series uses \"Disney Junior's 'whole child' curriculum of cognitive, social, and creative learning opportunities\".\n\nOnce the problem of the episode has been explained, Mickey invites viewers to join him at the Mousekedoer, a giant Mickey-head-shaped computer whose main function is to distribute the day's Mouseketools, a collection of objects needed to solve the day's problem, to Mickey. \nOne of them is a \"Mystery Mouseketool\" represented by a question mark, in which, when the words \"Mystery Mouseketool\" are said, the question mark changes into the Mouseketool you get to use. Another one is a \"Mouseke-Think-About-It Tool\" represented by a silhouette of Mickey's head with rotating gears, in which characters must think of what to use before telling the Tool \"Mouseke-Think-About-It-Tool, we pick the (object)\". Once the tools have been shown to Mickey on the Mousekedoer screen, they are quickly downloaded to Toodles, a small, Mickey-head-shaped flying extension of the Mousekedoer. By calling \"Oh, Toodles!\" Mickey summons him to pop up from where he is hiding and fly up to the screen so the viewer can pick which tool Mickey needs for the current situation.\n\nThe show features two original songs performed by American alternative rock band They Might Be Giants, including the opening theme song, in which a variant of a \"Mickey Mouse Club\" chant (\"Meeska Mooska Mickey Mouse!\") is used to summon the Clubhouse. They Might Be Giants also perform the song used at the end of every episode, \"Hot Dog!\", which echoes Mickey's first spoken words in the 1929 short \"The Karnival Kid\".\n\nThis is the first time the major Disney characters have regularly appeared on television in computer-animated form. The characters debuted in CG form in 2003 at the Magic Kingdom theme park attraction Mickey's PhilharMagic, then in the 2004 home video \"Mickey's Twice Upon a Christmas.\"\n\n\n\n\nMickey Mouse was originally voiced by Wayne Allwine with Bret Iwan taking over the role following Allwine's death in 2009. The final episode to feature Allwine as Mickey aired posthumously in 2011. Bill Farmer, the voice actor for Goofy and Pluto, stated in February 2014 that the recording of dialogue for new episodes has ceased, but that \"it will be quite a while before the show runs out of new episodes for TV. We have been on the air consistently since 2006 and we started recording in 2004. So there is always a long lead-in time between recording and seeing it on TV. So don’t worry more is still to come, we just are not making any more.\"\n\n\"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" received mixed to positive reviews, Common Sense Media rated the show a 4 out of 5 stars, stating: \"Parents need to know that \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" is a lively series designed to help preschoolers acquire problem-solving and early mathematics skills – and does so in a fun, exciting way. Although the show is very learning-focused, it's engaging without being intimidating.\"\n\n\"Minnie's Bow-Toons\" is a spin-off series which premiered in the fall of 2011 and concluded in 2016. It aired in the daytime Disney Junior programming block for younger audiences. It is based on the \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" episode \"Minnie's Bow-tique\" and depicts Minnie's continuing adventures in business as proprietor of her own store which makes and sells bows for apparel and interior decoration. She interacts with many of the characters seen in the \"Mickey Mouse Clubhouse\" series.\n\nA second spin-off, \"Mickey and the Roadster Racers\", debuted in January 2017 after Mickey Mouse Clubhouse stopped showing episodes in November 2016. It was renamed \"Mickey Mouse: Mixed Up-Adventures\" for the third season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300539", "title": "Caraglio", "text": "Caraglio\n\nCaraglio is a \"comune\" (municipality) in the Province of Cuneo in the Italian region Piedmont, located about southwest of Turin and about northwest of Cuneo. As of 1 January 2018, it had a population of 6,782 and an area of .\n\nThe municipality of Caraglio contains the \"frazioni\" (subdivisions, mainly villages and hamlets) Bottonasco, Cascina Bianca, Cascina Sottana, Grassini, Monturone, Oltre Grana, Palazzasso, Paschera San Carlo (Soprana), Paschera San Defendente (Sottana), Roata Bacias, Roata Borghi, Roata Bruno, Roata Chiabò, Roata Delfino, Roata Fresia, Roata Galliano, Roata Ghio, Roata Lorenzot, Roata Muschia, Rosata Armando, San Lorenzo, Tetto Bellino, Tetto Bianco, Tetto Boscasi.\n\nCaraglio borders the following municipalities: Bernezzo, Busca, Cervasca, Cuneo, Dronero, Montemale di Cuneo, Valgrana.\n\n\nCaraglio is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300541", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: B", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: B\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter B.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300550", "title": "Orange Record Label", "text": "Orange Record Label\n\nOrange Record Label was a Canadian independent record label, located in Toronto, Ontario. Orange recordings were distributed in Canada by Universal Music Canada, which was also a minority stakeholder in the label.\n\nOrange is also used to record and distribute the songs featured on the \"Instant Star\" television series starring Alexz Johnson. Stephen Stohn who is Executive Producer of \"Instant Star\" is also a minority stakeholder and director of Orange.\n\nOrange also plays host to the \"Live @ Orange Sessions\" which are recorded in the Orange Lounge Recording Studio for webcasting on Bell Sympatico. Orange's distribution arm, Starcana Distribution, facilitates the national distribution of independent labels and artists. \nArtists who have performed in Live @ Orange sessions include Katy Perry, Alexz Johnson, All American Rejects, Hedley, Pussycat Dolls, OneRepublic, Nelly Furtado, Creed, Emily Osment, Chris Cornell, Amy Winehouse, Keith Urban, Sugarland, The Fray and Colbie Caillat.\n\nOrange Record Label is directly linked to The Orange Lounge Recording Company, the active record label home to artists such as Justin Hines, Ash & Bloom and holds catalogue for Alexz Johnson, Johnny Hollow, Tyler Kyte and Robyn Dell’Unto.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300558", "title": "KOB (TV)", "text": "KOB (TV)\n\nKOB, virtual channel 4 (UHF digital channel 26), is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to Albuquerque, New Mexico, United States and also serving the state capital of Santa Fe. The station is owned by Hubbard Broadcasting. KOB's studios are located on Broadcast Plaza just west of downtown (across the street from dual CBS/Fox affiliate KRQE, channel 13), and its transmitter is located on Sandia Crest, east of Albuquerque.\n\nKOB-TV started operations on November 29, 1948, after \"Albuquerque Journal\" owner and publisher Tom Pepperday won a television license on his second try. Pepperday, who also owned KOB radio (770 AM), had previously applied for one in 1943. It is the oldest television station in New Mexico, as well as the third-oldest television station between the Mississippi River and the West Coast (behind WBAP-TV (now KXAS-TV) in Fort Worth, and KDYL-TV (now KTVX) in Salt Lake City). Initially, channel 4 ran programming from all four networks—NBC, ABC, CBS and DuMont. However, it has always been a primary NBC affiliate owing to its radio sister's long affiliation with NBC radio.\n\nLater, in May 1952, the KOB stations were purchased by magazine publisher Time-Life (later Time Inc.) and former Federal Communications Commission (FCC) chairman Wayne Coy. It was Time-Life's first television asset. In 1953, two new TV stations signed on within a week—KGGM-TV (channel 13, now KRQE) signed on and took CBS, followed by KOAT which took ABC; DuMont shut down in 1956.\n\nStanley E. Hubbard, founder of Hubbard Broadcasting, bought KOB-AM-TV from Time-Life in 1957, and has owned the station since. KOB's radio cousins were sold off in 1986 and are now known as KKOB and KOBQ. Despite the change, many people still confuse the television and radio stations today. In 2005, KOB-TV entered into a news partnership with KKOB.\n\nAlthough the KOB radio stations had long amended their callsigns, KOB-TV didn't drop the \"-TV\" suffix until June 13, 2009, when the FCC allowed a limited opportunity for stations to change their suffixes (adding \"-TV\" or \"-DT\") or drop them in the wake of the digital transition that was completed the previous day.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nIn September 2006, KOB-TV began broadcasting NBC WeatherPlus on digital subchannel 4.2, at first inserting its Doppler weather radar during time reserved for local segments. In December 2008, WeatherPlus was replaced with KOB's own locally programmed weather station. Weekly E/I programming required of broadcast television stations by the FCC came from NASA TV on weekend mornings.\n\nOn February 7, 2011, the subchannel began to carry programming from This TV. On June 30, 2016, Comet TV was added as a third digital channel, airing science fiction programs. Both Comet and This TV are partially owned by MGM Television.\n\nKOB-TV shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 4, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 26. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 4.\n\nAs part of the SAFER Act, KOB-TV kept its analog signal on the air until June 30 to inform viewers of the digital television transition through a loop of public service announcements from the National Association of Broadcasters.\n\nTwo stations rebroadcast KOB's signal and insert local content for other parts of the media market:\n\nKOBF went on air in 1972 as KIVA-TV. It operated at about half of the class maximum (158 of 316 kW) from an antenna above average terrain. The station had always been an NBC affiliate.\n\nUp until March 2007, KOBF had broadcast a fifteen-minute Four Corners news, weather and sports segment, \"Eyewitness News 12\", during KOB news broadcasts every weekday at 6 and 10 p.m. KOBF also produced four 5-minute news cut-ins every weekday morning during the \"Today\" show from 7–9 a.m. with local news and weather information, as well as a local high school sports program called \"Four Corners Gameday\" every Friday night during the academic year. Communities throughout the Four Corners region came to rely and depend on KOBF for local news, weather and sports information complementing the statewide coverage from KOB in Albuquerque.\n\nOn March 1, 2007, most of the extra news and all of the extra sports content was ended for viewers of KOBF. KOB management fired three of the four members of the news department, in addition to two technical directors and the news director, Scott Michlin, who had been with KOBF for 17 years. A similar practice of providing local newscasts had been done at KOBR, but to a much smaller extent. Those local broadcasts also ceased on March 1, 2007. KOBF and KOBR now serve as bureaus feeding a story or two each day for the statewide newscasts on KOB from Albuquerque. Each is staffed by one news reporter/photographer.\n\nKOBR has been a KOB satellite since 1983, after previously operating as a free-standing local station with a primary NBC affiliation and later as a satellite of NBC affiliate KCBD-TV in Lubbock, Texas. A separate article about KOBR includes more extensive details about the history of the Roswell station.\n\nKOB formerly operated a third satellite station, KOBG-TV channel 6 in Silver City, which signed on in 2000. Its transmitter was located at . KOBG had a permit to construct a digital station on channel 8, but these facilities were never built. After the digital transition on June 12, 2009, KOBG began operating with facilities on channel 12 identical to that of low-power translator stations under special temporary authority, and was formally replaced with a translator (K12QW-D) on April 26, 2011, though its license was not canceled until August 3.\n\nThe last letter of the satellite station callsigns stands for the city or county where the station is located. KOBG was in Grant County.\n\nIn addition to KOB and its two satellite stations, there are dozens of low-powered repeaters that carry KOB's programming throughout New Mexico, as well as a handful in Colorado and Arizona, which include:\n\nNotes:\n\nIn February 2019, Las Cruces-based K42DJ, which was owned by the News-Press & Gazette Company and rebroadcast the Azteca América subchannel of El Paso, Texas-based KVIA-TV, was transferred to Hubbard and began to rebroadcast KOB instead as K22NM-D. This provided Las Cruces over-the-air access to an in-state NBC affiliate in addition to the main NBC affiliate serving Las Cruces, Nexstar's KTSM-TV.\n\nKOB broadcasts 32½ hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with 5½ hours each weekday, three hours on Saturdays, and two hours on Sundays). During the school year, KOB broadcasts a weekly 15-minute sportscast, \"New Mexico Gameday\", dedicated to high school sports.\n\nWhen KOAT's top anchorman, Dick Knipfing, was fired on June 4, 1979, KOB hired him to anchor their newscasts. Although KOAT sued to keep Knipfing off the air until the following year, an opinion from the United States District Court allowed the anchorman to proceed with his plans to begin anchoring channel 4 on August 1, creating the first big-dollar anchor in Albuquerque, and allowing him to stand out in the industry as the \"anchorman wars\" moved to smaller markets. Knipfing's salary at that time was approximately $90,000. However, channel 4 was never able to overtake KOAT in the news ratings.\n\nKOB produced an hour-long nightly newscast for Albuquerque's then-Fox affiliate, KASA, from September 2000 through September 14, 2006, called \"Fox 2 News at Nine\". The next day, KRQE took over production of that newscast as that station's parent company, LIN TV, began taking over KASA's operations as it purchased the station.\n\nOn September 26, 2010, KOB began producing and broadcasting its newscasts in widescreen standard definition, and debuted new on-air graphics and a new station logo (the logo used for its newscasts is very similar to that used by Swedish television channel TV4 for its programming) on that date as well.\n\nStarting on February 13, 2020, the 10 PM newscast will be renamed KOB Night Watch, switching the newscast from its former Eyewitness News format to a looser talk based news format. It is believed that it will be only for the late newscast, but could expand depending on viewer input.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300559", "title": "Cornish people", "text": "Cornish people\n\nThe Cornish people or Cornish (, ) are a Celtic ethnic group native to, or associated with Cornwall and a recognised national minority in the United Kingdom, which can trace its roots to the ancient Britons who inhabited southern and central Great Britain before the Roman conquest. Many in Cornwall today continue to assert a distinct identity separate from or in addition to English or British identities. Cornish identity has been adopted by migrants into Cornwall, as well as by emigrant and descendant communities from Cornwall, the latter sometimes referred to as the Cornish diaspora. Although not included as an explicit option in the UK census, the numbers of those claiming Cornish ethnic and national identity are officially recognised and recorded.\n\nThroughout classical antiquity, the ancient Britons formed a series of tribes, cultures and identities in Great Britain; the Dumnonii and Cornovii were the Celtic tribes who inhabited what was to become Cornwall during the Iron Age, Roman and post-Roman periods. The name Cornwall and its demonym Cornish are derived from the Celtic Cornovii tribe. The Anglo-Saxon invasion and settlement of Britain in the 5th to 6th centuries restricted the Romano-British culture and language gradually into the north and west of Great Britain whilst the inhabitants of southern and eastern Britain became English. The Cornish people, who shared the Brythonic language with the Welsh and Bretons across the sea, were referred to in the Old English language as the \"Westwalas\" meaning West Welsh. The Battle of Deorham between the Britons and Anglo-Saxons is thought to have resulted in a loss of landlinks with the people of Wales.\n\nThe Cornish people and their Brythonic Cornish language experienced a process of anglicisation and attrition during the Medieval and early Modern Period. By the 18th century, and following the creation of the Kingdom of Great Britain, the Cornish language and identity had faded, largely replaced by the English language (albeit Cornish-influenced West Country dialects and Anglo-Cornish) and/or British identity. A Celtic revival during the early-20th century enabled a cultural self-consciousness in Cornwall that revitalised the Cornish language and roused the Cornish to express a distinctly Celtic heritage. The Cornish language was granted official recognition under the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages in 2002, and in 2014 the Cornish people were recognised and afforded protection by the UK Government under the Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities.\n\nIn the 2011 census, the population of Cornwall, including the Isles of Scilly, was estimated to be 532,300. The Cornish self-government movement has called for greater recognition of Cornish culture, politics and language, and urged that Cornish people be accorded greater status, exemplified by the call for them to be one of the listed ethnic groups in the United Kingdom Census 2011 form.\n\nBoth geographic and historical factors distinguish the Cornish as an ethnic group further supported by identifiable genetic variance between the populations of Cornwall, neighbouring Devon and England as published in a 2012 Oxford University study. Throughout medieval and Early Modern Britain, the Cornish were at some points accorded the same status as the English and Welsh and considered a separate race or nation, distinct from their neighbours, with their own language, society and customs. A process of Anglicisation between 1485 and 1700 led to the Cornish adopting English language, culture and civic identity, a view reinforced by Cornish historian A. L. Rowse who said they were gradually \"absorbed into the mainstream of English life\". Although \"decidedly modern\" and \"largely retrospective\" in its identity politics, Cornish and Celtic associations have advanced the notion of a distinct Cornish national and ethnic identity since the late 20th century. In the United Kingdom Census 2001, despite no explicit \"Cornish\" option being available, approximately 34,000 people in Cornwall and 3,500 people elsewhere in the UK—a combined total equal to nearly 7 per cent of the population of Cornwall—identified themselves as ethnic Cornish by writing this in under the \"other\" ethnicity option. The census figures show a change in identity from West to East, in Penwith 9.2 per cent identified as ethnically Cornish, in Kerrier it was 7.5 per cent, in Carrick 6.6 per cent, Restormel 6.3 per cent, North Cornwall 6 per cent, and Caradon 5.6 per cent. Weighting of the 2001 Census data gives a figure of 154,791 people with Cornish ethnicity living in Cornwall.\n\nThe Cornish have been described as \"a special case\" in England, with an \"ethnic rather than regional identity\". Structural changes to the politics of the United Kingdom, particularly the European Union and devolution, have been cited as the main stimulus to \"a growing interest in Cornish identity and distinctiveness\" in late-20th century Britain. The British are the citizens of the United Kingdom, a people who by convention consist of four national groups: the English, Northern Irish, Scots and Welsh. In the 1990s it was said that the notion that the Cornish are to be classified as a nation comparable to the English, Irish, Scots and Welsh, \"has practically vanished from the popular consciousness\" outside Cornwall, and that, despite a \"real and substantive\" identity, the Cornish \"struggle for recognition as a national group distinct from the English\". However, in 2014, after a 15-year campaign, the UK government officially recognised the Cornish as a national minority under the Council of Europe's Framework Convention for the Protection of National Minorities, giving the Cornish the same status as the Welsh, Scots and Irish within the UK.\n\nInhabitants of Cornwall may have multiple political allegiances, adopting mixed, dual or hyphenated identities such as \"Cornish first and British second\", \"Cornish and British and European\", or, like Phil Vickery (a rugby union prop for the England national rugby union team and British and Irish Lions), describe themselves as \"Cornish\" and \"English\". Meanwhile, another international rugby union player, Josh Matavesi, describes himself as Cornish-Fijian and Cornish not English.\n\nA survey by Plymouth University in 2000 found that 30% of children in Cornwall felt \"Cornish, not English\". A 2004 survey on national identity by the finance firm Morgan Stanley found that 44% of respondents in Cornwall saw themselves as Cornish rather than British or English. A 2008 University of Exeter study conducted in 16 towns across Cornwall found that 59% felt themselves to be Cornish and 41% felt \"More Cornish than English\", while for over a third of respondents the Cornish identity formed their primary \"national\" identity. Genealogy and family history were considered to be the chief criteria for ‘being’ Cornish, particularly among those who possessed such ties, while being born in Cornwall was also held to be important.\n\nA 2008 study by the University of Edinburgh of 15- and 16-year-old schoolchildren in Cornwall found that 58% of respondents felt themselves to be either ‘Fairly’ or ‘Very much’ Cornish. The other 42% may be the result of in-migration to the area during the second half of the twentieth century.\n\nA 2010 study by the University of Exeter into the meaning of contemporary Cornish identity across Cornwall found that there was a \"west-east distance decay in the strength of the Cornish identity.\" The study was conducted amongst the farming community as they were deemed to be the socio-professional group most objectively representative of Cornishness. All participants categorised themselves as Cornish and identified Cornish as their primary ethnic group orientation. Those in the west primarily thought of themselves as Cornish and British/Celtic, while those in the east tended to think of themselves as Cornish and English. All participants in West Cornwall who identified as Cornish and not English described people in East Cornwall, without hesitation, as equally Cornish as themselves. Those who identified as Cornish and English stressed the primacy of their Cornishness and a capacity to distance themselves from their Englishness. Ancestry was seen as the most important criterion for being categorised as Cornish, above place of birth or growing up in Cornwall. This study supports a 1988 study by Mary McArthur that had found that the meanings of Cornishness varied substantially, from local to national identity. Both studies also observed that the Cornish were less materialistic than the English. The Cornish generally saw the English, or city people, as being \"less friendly and more aggressively self-promoting and insensitive.\" The Cornish saw themselves as friendly, welcoming and caring.\n\nIn November 2010 British Prime Minister, David Cameron, said \"I think Cornish national identity is very powerful\" and that his government would \"devolve a lot of power to Cornwall – that will go to the Cornish unitary authority.\"\n\nA campaign for the inclusion of a Cornish tick-box in the nationality section of the 2011 census failed to win the support of parliament in 2009. As a consequence, posters were created by the census organisation and Cornwall Council which advised residents how they could identify themselves as Cornish by writing it in the national identity and ethnicity sections and record Cornish in the main language section. Additionally, people could record Cornwall as their country of birth.\n\nLike other identities, Cornish has an allocated census code, (06), the same as for 2001, which applied and was counted throughout Britain. People were first able to record their ethnicity as Cornish in the 2001 UK Census, and some 37,000 people did so by writing it in.\n\nA total of 83,499 people in England and Wales were described as having a Cornish national identity. 59,456 of these were described as Cornish only, 6,261 as Cornish and British, and 17,782 as Cornish and at least one other identity, with or without British. Within Cornwall the total was 73,220 (14% of the population) with 52,793 (9.9%) as Cornish only, 5,185 (1%) as Cornish and British, and 15,242 (2.9%) as Cornish and at least one other identity, with or without British.\n\nIn Scotland 467 people described themselves as having Cornish national identity. 254 with Cornish identity only, 39 as Scottish and Cornish, and 174 having Cornish identity and at least one other UK identity (excluding Scottish).\n\nSince 2006 school children in Cornwall have been able to record themselves as ethnically Cornish on the annual Schools Census (PLASC). Since then the number identifying as Cornish has risen from 24% to 46%. The Department for Education recommends that parents and guardians determine the ethnicity of children at primary schools whilst pupils at secondary schools can decide their own ethnicity.\n\n\nTraditional accounts of Cornish ancestry teach that they are descended from the Celts making them distinct from the English, many (but not all) of whom are descended from the Anglo-Saxons who colonised Great Britain from their homelands in northern Europe and drove the Celts to Britain's western and northern fringes. However, some DNA research investigating the genetic history of the British Isles suggests that three quarters of contemporary Y-chromosomes of British people—including the Cornish—originate from hunter-gatherers who settled in Atlantic Europe during the Paleolithic era, \"after the melting of the ice caps but before the land broke away from the mainland and divided into islands\". Archaeological evidence supports pre-historic human habitation in Cornwall, at least as early as the Lower Paleolithic. Although there was a separation of the British Isles from continental Europe as a consequence of the last ice age, genetic evidence indicates that the people of Great Britain broadly share a common ancestry with the Basque people who live in the Basque Country by the Pyrenees. On this basis, geneticist Stephen Oppenheimer suggests that the first settlers of Great Britain were unlikely to have spoken one of the Celtic languages, but rather an ancient tongue related to the Basque language. The next historical immigration to Great Britain occurred during the Neolithic period, interpreted by Bryan Sykes—professor of human genetics at the University of Oxford—as the arrival of the Celts from the Iberian Peninsula, and the origin of Britain's and Ireland's Celtic tribes. It is these people who are considered the progenitors of the Cornish. A study by the Wellcome Trust, led by Sir Walter Bodmer and published on Channel 4's \"Faces of Britain\" in April 2007, showed that the Cornish people have a particular variant of the Melanocortin 1 receptor gene, identifying them as Celts more closely related to the Welsh than to the English. Within the areas of the UK studied, this gene appeared in 26 per cent of the population of Orkney, 23 per cent of Devon, 21 per cent of Wales, 16 per cent of Cornwall, 13 per cent of Kent, and 11 per cent of North East England. According to a DNA survey carried out for the Royal Society and published in 2012 by Peter Donnelly, professor of statistical science at Oxford University and director of the Wellcome Trust genetics centre, Cornish people, along with the Welsh and people of Devon, were found to be among the most genetically distinct groups in Britain. Others in England and Britain were found to have a greater range of genetic ancestries, with people from Cornwall being distinct from those elsewhere in England and the neighbouring population of Devon, though overall still very closely related to the 'English' possibly due to their stronger genetic links to the tribes that arrived after the last ice age. However, a more recent study by Oxford University geneticist Professor Peter Donnelly suggests that the Cornish have DNA that is more similar to that of other English groups than to the Welsh or the Scots. Both Cornish and Devonians have similar but distinct genetic profiles which show less continental 'German' influence and more northern 'French' material than the English and Scots; all showing a similar portion of \"Nordic\" material suggesting the idea of a uniform \"Celtic\" genetic race is false.\nThroughout classical antiquity the Celts spoke Celtic languages, and formed a series of tribes, cultures and identities, notably the Picts and Gaels in the north and the Britons in the south. The Britons were themselves a divided people; although they shared the Brythonic languages, they were tribal, and divided into regional societies, and within them sub-groups. Examples of these tribal societies were the Brigantes in the north, and the Ordovices, the Demetae, the Silures and the Deceangli in the west. In the extreme southwest, what was to become Cornwall, were the Dumnonii and Cornovii, who lived in the Kingdom of Dumnonia. The Roman conquest of Britain in the 1st century introduced Romans to Britain, who upon their arrival initially recorded the Dumnonii, but later reported on the Cornovii, who were possibly a sub-group of the Dumnonii. Although the Romans colonised much of central and southern Britain, Dumnonia was \"virtually unaffected\" by the conquest; Roman rule had little or no impact on the region, meaning it could flourish as a semi- or fully independent kingdom which evidence shows was sometimes under the dominion of the kings of the Britons, and sometimes to have been governed by its own Dumnonian monarchy, either by the title of duke or king. This petty kingdom shared strong linguistic, political and cultural links with Brittany, a peninsula on continental Europe south of Cornwall inhabited by Britons; the Cornish and Breton languages were nearly indistinguishable in this period, and both Cornwall and Brittany remain dotted with dedications to the same Celtic saints.\n\nThe Sack of Rome in the year 410 prompted a complete Roman departure from Britain, and Cornwall then experienced an influx of Celtic Christian missionaries from Ireland who had a profound effect upon the early Cornish people, their culture, faith and architecture. The ensuing decline of the Roman Empire encouraged the Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain. The Angles, Jutes, Frisii and Saxons, Germanic peoples from northern Europe, established petty kingdoms and settled in different regions of what was to become England, and parts of southern Scotland, progressively defeating the Britons in battle. The Saxons of the Kingdom of Wessex in particular were expanding their territory westwards towards Cornwall. The Cornish were frequently embattled with the West Saxons, who used their Germanic word \"walha\" (modern English: Welsh) meaning \"stranger\" or \"foreigner\", to describe their opponents, later specifying them as the \"Westwalas\" (West Welsh) or \"Cornwalas\" (the Cornish). Conflict continued until King Athelstan of England determined that the River Tamar be the formal boundary between the West Saxons and the Cornish in the year 936, making Cornwall one of the last retreats of the Britons encouraging the development of a distinct Cornish identity; Brittonic culture in Britain became confined to Cornwall, parts of Devon, North West England, South West Scotland and Wales. Although a treaty was agreed, Anglo-Saxon political influence stretched westwards until some time in the late 10th century when \"Cornwall was definitively incorporated into the Kingdom of England\".\n\nThe Norman conquest of England, which began with an invasion by the troops of William, Duke of Normandy (later, King William I of England) in 1066, resulted in the removal of the Anglo-Saxon derived monarchy, aristocracy, and clerical hierarchy and its replacement by Normans, Scandinavian Vikings from northern France and their Breton allies, who, in many cases, maintained rule in the Brittonic-speaking parts of the conquered lands. The shires of England were progressively divided amongst the companions of William I of England, who served as England's new nobility. The English would come to absorb the Normans, but the Cornish \"vigorously resisted\" their influence. At the time of the conquest, Cornwall was under the governance of Cadoc of Cornwall, the last Earl of Cornwall to be directly descended from the ancient monarchy of Cornwall. The Earldom of Cornwall had held devolved semi-sovereignty from England, but in 1067 was granted to Robert, Count of Mortain, King William I's half-brother, and ruled thereafter by an Anglo-Norman aristocracy; in the \"Domesday Book\", the record of the great survey of England completed in 1086, \"virtually all\" landowners in Cornwall \"had English names, making it impossible to be sure who was Cornish and who was English by race\". However, there was a persistent and \"continuing differentiation\" between the English and Cornish peoples during the Middle Ages, as evidenced by documents such as the 1173 charter of Truro which made explicit mention of both peoples as distinct.\n\nThe Earldom of Cornwall passed to various English nobles throughout the High Middle Ages, but in 1337 the earldom was given the status of a duchy, and Edward, the Black Prince, the first son and heir of King Edward III of England, became the first Duke of Cornwall as a means for the prince to raise his own capital. Large parts of Cornwall were owned by Edward, 1st Duke of Cornwall, and successive English Dukes of Cornwall became the largest landowners in Cornwall; The monarchy of England established two special administrative institutions in Cornwall, the first being the Duchy of Cornwall (one of only two in the Kingdom of England) and the second being the Cornish Stannary Courts and Parliaments (which governed Cornwall's tin industry). These two institutions allowed \"ordinary Cornish people to believe that they had been granted a unique constitutional status to reflect their unique cultural identity\". However, the Duchy of Cornwall gradually lost its political autonomy from England, a state which became increasingly centralised in London, and by the early-Tudor period the Cornish had begun to see themselves as \"a conquered people whose culture, liberties, and prosperity had been downgraded by the English\". This view was exacerbated in the 1490s by heavy taxation imposed by King Henry VII of England upon the impoverished Cornish to raise funds for his military campaigns against King James IV of Scotland and Perkin Warbeck, as well as Henry VII's suspension of the privileges of the Cornish Stannaries. Having provided \"more than their fair share of soldiers and sailors\" for the conflict in northern England, and feeling aggrieved at \"Cornwall's status as England's poorest county\", a popular uprising out of Cornwall ensued—the Cornish Rebellion of 1497. The rebellion was initially a political march from St Keverne to London led by Thomas Flamank and Michael An Gof, motivated by a \"mixture of reasons\"; to raise money for charity; to celebrate their community; to present their grievances to the Parliament of England, but gathered pace across the West Country as a revolt against the king.\nCornish was the most widely spoken language west of the River Tamar until around the mid-1300s, when Middle English began to be adopted as a common language of the Cornish people. As late as 1542 Andrew Boorde, an English traveller, physician and writer, wrote that in Cornwall there were two languages, \"Cornysshe\" and \"Englysshe\", but that \"there may be many men and women\" in Cornwall who could not understand English. While the Norman language was in use by much of the English aristocracy, Cornish was used as a \"lingua franca\", particularly in the remote far west of Cornwall. Many Cornish landed gentry chose mottos in the Cornish language for their coat of arms, highlighting its socially high status. However, in 1549 and following the English Reformation, King Edward VI of England commanded that the Book of Common Prayer, an Anglican liturgical text in the English language, should be introduced to all churches in his kingdom, meaning that Latin and Celtic customs and services should be discontinued. The Prayer Book Rebellion was a militant revolt in Cornwall and parts of neighbouring Devon against the Act of Uniformity 1549, which outlawed all languages from church services apart from English, and is specified as a testament to the affection and loyalty the Cornish people held for the Cornish language. In the rebellion, separate risings occurred simultaneously in Bodmin in Corwall, and Sampford Courtenay in Devon—which would both converge at Exeter, laying siege to the region's largest Protestant city. However, the rebellion was suppressed, thanks largely to the aid of foreign mercenaries in a series of battles in which \"hundreds were killed\", effectively ending Cornish as the common language of the Cornish people. The Anglicanism of the Reformation served as a vehicle for Anglicisation in Cornwall; Protestantism had a lasting cultural effect upon the Cornish by way of linking Cornwall more closely with England, while lessening political and linguistic ties with the Bretons of Brittany.\n\nThe English Civil War, a series of armed conflicts and political machinations between Parliamentarians and Royalists, polarised the populations of England and Wales. However, Cornwall in the English Civil War was a staunchly Royalist enclave, an \"important focus of support for the Royalist cause\". Cornish soldiers were used as scouts and spies during the war, for their language was not understood by English Parliamentarians. The peace that followed the close of the war led to a further shift to the English language by the Cornish people, which encouraged an influx of English people to Cornwall. By the mid-17th century the use of the Cornish language had retreated far enough west to prompt concern and investigation by antiquarians, such as William Scawen. As the Cornish language diminished the people of Cornwall underwent a process of English enculturation and assimilation, becoming \"absorbed into the mainstream of English life\".\n\nThe Industrial Revolution had a major impact upon the Cornish people. Cornwall's economy was fully integrated into England's, and mining in Cornwall, always an important source of employment and stability of the Cornish, experienced a process of industrialisation resulting in 30 per cent of Cornwall's adult population being employed by its mines. During this period, efforts were made by Cornish engineers to design steam engines with which to power water pumps for Cornish mines thus aiding the extraction of mineral ore. Industrial scale tin and copper mining operations in Cornwall melded Cornish identity with engines and heavy industry, and Cornwall's leading mining engineer, Richard Trevithick, became \"as much a part of Cornwall's heritage as any legendary giant from its Celtic past\". Trevithick's most significant success was a high-pressure steam engine used to pump water and refuse from mines, but he was also the builder of the first full-scale working railway steam locomotive. On 21 February 1804, the world's first locomotive-hauled railway journey took place as Trevithick's unnamed steam locomotive hauled a train along the tramway of the Penydarren ironworks, near Merthyr Tydfil in Wales.\n\nThe construction of the Great Western Railway during the Victorian era allowed for an influx of tourists to Cornwall from across Great Britain. Well into the Edwardian era and interwar period, Cornwall was branded as a rural retreat, a \"primitive land of magic and romance\", and as an \"earlier incarnation of Englishness, a place more English than an England ravaged by modernity\". Cornwall, the United Kingdom's only region with a subtropical-like climate, became a centre for English tourism, its coastline dominated by resort towns increasingly composed of bungalows and villas. Tourists visiting Cornwall are called \"emmets\" by locals, a Cornish language word for insects, referring to the creatures that the visitors resemble when swarming Cornwall's resorts. John Nichols Thom, or Mad Tom, (1799 – 31 May 1838) was a Cornishman self-declared messiah who, in the 19th century led the last battle to be fought on English soil, known as the Battle of Bossenden Wood. While not akin to the Cornish rebellions of the past, he did attract some Cornish support as well as mostly Kentish labourers, although his support was primarily of religious followers.\n\nIn the latter half of the 19th century Cornwall experienced rapid deindustrialisation, with the closure of mines in particular considered by the Cornish to be both an economic and cultural disaster. This, coupled with the rise of Romantic nationalism in Europe inspired and influenced a Celtic Revival in Cornwall, a social, linguistic and artistic movement interested in Cornish medieval ethnology. This Revivalist upsurge investigated Cornwall's pre-industrial culture, using the Cornish language as the \"principal badge of [Cornish] nationality and ethnic kinship”. The first effective revival of Cornish began in 1904 when Henry Jenner, a Celtic language enthusiast, published his book \"Handbook of the Cornish Language\". His orthography, Unified Cornish, was based on Cornish as it was spoken in the 18th century, although his pupil Robert Morton Nance later steered the revival more towards the Middle Cornish that had been used in the 16th century, before the language became influenced by English.\n\nThe visit of King George IV to Scotland in 1822 reinvigorated Scottish national identity, melding it with romanticist notions of tartan, kilts and the Scottish Highlands. As Pan-Celticism gathered pace in the early 20th century, Cornishman L. C. R. Duncombe-Jewell and the Cowethas Kelto-Kernuak (a Cornish language interest group) asserted the use of Cornish kilts and tartans as a \"national dress ... common to all Celtic countries\". In 1924 the Federation of Old Cornwall Societies was formed to facilitate, preserve and maintain Celticity in Cornwall, followed by the similar Gorseth Kernow in 1928, and the formation of the Cornish nationalist political party Mebyon Kernow in 1951. Increased interest and communication across the Celtic nations in Celtic languages and culture during the 1960s and 1970s spurred on the popularisation of the Cornish self-government movement. Since devolution in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland, enthusiasts for Cornish culture have pressed for the Cornish language to be taught formally in Cornish schools, while Cornish nationalists have demanded greater political autonomy for Cornwall, for example that it be constituted as the United Kingdom's fifth consistuent country with its own Cornish Assembly.\n\nThe Cornish people are concentrated in Cornwall, but after the Age of Discovery in the early modern period were involved in the British colonisation of the Americas and other transcontinental and transatlantic migrations. Initially, the number of migrants was comparatively small, with those who left Cornwall typically settling in North America or else amongst the ports and plantations of the Caribbean.\n\nIn the first half of the 19th century, the Cornish people were leaders in tin and copper smelting, while mining in Cornwall was the people's major occupation. Increased competition from Australia, British Malaya and Bolivia, coupled with the depletion of mineral deposits brought about an economic decline for Cornish mining lasting half a century, and prompting mass human migration from Cornwall. In each decade from 1861 to 1901, \"around 20% of the Cornish male population migrated abroad\"—three times that of the average of England and Wales—and totalling over a quarter of a million people lost to emigration between 1841 and 1901. There was a displacement of skilled Cornish engineers, farmers, merchants, miners and tradesmen, but their commercial and occupational expertise, particularly in hard rock mining, was highly valued by the communities they met. Within Great Britain, Cornish families were attracted from Cornwall to North East England—particularly on Teesside—to partake in coal mining as a means to earn wealth by using their mining skill. This has resulted in a concentration of Cornish names on and around Teesside that persists into the 21st century.\n\nLarge numbers of the 19th century Cornish emigrants eventually returned to Cornwall, whilst the rate of emigration from Cornwall declined after World War I. However, the global connections of the remaining Cornish diaspora, which is concentrated in English-speaking countries such as Australia, Canada, South Africa and the United States, are \"very strong\". Their outreach has contributed to the international spread of Methodism, a movement within Protestant Christianity that was popular with the Cornish people at the time of their mass migration. \"Cousin Jacks\" is a nickname for the overseas Cornish, thought to derive from the practice of Cornishmen asking if job vacancies could be filled by their cousin named Jack in Cornwall.\n\nFrom the beginning of Australia's colonial period until after the Second World War, people from the United Kingdom made up a large majority of people coming to Australia, meaning that many Australian-born people can trace their origins to Britain. The Cornish people in particular were actively encouraged to emigrate to Australia following the demise of Cornish mining in the 19th century. A \"vigorous recruiting campaign\" was launched to encourage the Cornish to aid with mining in Australia because of their experience and expertise. Free passage to South Australia in particular was granted to hundreds of Cornish miners and their families, so much so, that a large Cornish community gathered in Australia's Copper Coast, and South Australia's Yorke Peninsula became known as \"Little Cornwall”. It has been estimated between 1837 and 1840, 15 per cent of all assisted migrants to South Australia were Cornish.\n\nCornish settlement impacted upon social, cultural and religious life throughout the history of South Australia. Cornish identity was embraced strongly in the Yorke Peninsula, but also in the more outlying mining towns of Kapunda and Burra, where Cornish miners constituted a sizeable community. Methodism, was the main form of religious practice for the Cornish. Methodist sensibilities were held with strong conviction by the migrant Cornish in a direct rivalry with Catholic Irish people in Australia. The Kernewek Lowender is the largest Cornish festival in the world, held in the Kadina, Moonta and Wallaroo towns on the Yorke Peninsula, which attracts tens of thousands of visitors bi-annually.\n\nEuropean fishing ventures in and around Newfoundland during the 16th century were the earliest Cornish activity in what was to become Canada. However, permanent settlement by the Cornish across the Atlantic Ocean was rare until at least the 19th century. The British colonisation of the Americas encouraged additional migration of the Cornish to the Canadas, particularly by those who served in Great Britain's Royal Navy. The creation of the colony of British North America spurred more people from Cornwall to settle in North America; they were registered as English migrants. Many Cornish (and other West Country) immigrants who had been agricultural labourers settled in an area of what is now South Central Ontario in what were the counties of Northumberland, Durham and Ontario, ranging from the towns of Port Hope and Cobourg in the east, to Whitby in the west and to the north ends of those counties.\n\nIn 1825 a band of 60 Cornishmen left Falmouth for Mineral del Monte in central Mexico with of mining machinery with which to apply their mining skill and technologies to resuscitate Mexico's ailing silver mining industry after the neglect caused by the Mexican War of Independence. Following their sea voyage they attempted to dock at Veracruz but were forced away by the Spanish to a beach at Mocambo from where they hauled their machinery through jungle and swamp to Santa Fe. During this haul through the jungle, the Cornishmen and their Mexican helpers fell victim to yellow fever, resulting in 30 Cornish and 100 Mexican fatalities. The fever forced the survivors to abandon their equipment and head inland up into the mountains to Xalapa to try and escape the mosquitos for three months, until the end of the rainy season. Once the rainy season closed the Cornish and Mexican miners continued their \"Great Trek\" to Mineral del Monte, transporting their machinery to an altitude of above sea level and arriving at their destination on 1 May 1826. Following their arrival, the Cornish community flourished and stayed in central Mexico until the Mexican Revolution in 1910. Although the Cornish community in Mexico broadly returned to Cornwall, they left a cultural legacy; Cornish pasties, Cornish mining museums and a Cornish Mexican Cultural Society are all part of the local heritage and tradition in and around Mineral del Monte.\n\nThe Witwatersrand Gold Rush of 1886 encouraged large numbers of Cornish miners to migrate to the South African Republic. Although an international gold rush, the Cornish overwhelmingly formed the skilled labour force in the Witwatersrand, until the outbreak of the Second Boer War prompted a retreat.\n\nThe discovery of lead ore and copper in North America prompted an influx of Cornish miners to the continent, particularly around the Upper Mississippi River. By the early 19th century Cornish people were present in the Upper Peninsula of Michigan—particularly the mining town of Ishpeming. Additional waves of Cornish migrants followed the California Gold Rush of the mid-19th century; in the 1890s it was estimated that in California's Grass Valley, over 60 per cent of the population was Cornish. It has a tradition of carols stemming from the Cornish who settled the area as gold miners in the 19th century. The carols have become \"the identity of the town\", some of the members of the Grass Valley Cornish Carol Choir are descendants of the original Cornish settlers.\n\nMost migratory Cornish to the United States were classified as English or British, meaning that the precise number of Cornish Americans is difficult to estimate. The aggregate number of immigrants from Cornwall to the United States before World War I is suggested to be around 100,000.\n\nThe survival of a distinct Cornish culture has been attributed to Cornwall's geographic isolation. Contemporaneously, the underlying notion of Cornish culture is that it is distinct from the culture of England, despite its anglicisation, and that it is instead part of a Celtic tradition. According to American academic Paul Robert Magocsi, modern-day Cornish activists have claimed several Victorian era inventions including the Cornish engine, Christmas carols, rugby football and brass bands as part of this Cornish tradition. Cornish cultural tradition is most strongly associated with the people's most historical occupation, mining, an aspect of Cornish history and culture that has influenced its cuisine, symbols and identity. The Cornish writer C. C. Vyvyan wrote in her 1948 book \"Our Cornwall\": \"A man might live and die among us and never gain throughout his allotted span of life one glimpse of the essential Cornwall or the essential Cornishman.\"\n\nCornwall has its own tradition of Christian saints, derived from Celtic extraction, that have given rise to localised dedications. Saint Piran is the 5th century Christian abbot, supposedly of Irish origin, who is patron saint of both tin miners and Cornwall. According to popular mythology, Piran, an Irish scholar who studied Christianity in Ancient Rome was to be drowned in the Irish Sea by the High Kings of Ireland, but instead floated across to Perranporth in Cornwall by the will of God to preach the ministry of Jesus. Saint Piran's Flag, a centred white cross on a black field, was described as the \"Standard of Cornwall\" in 1838 and was re-introduced by Celtic Revivalists thereafter as a county flag of Cornwall. It has been seized upon by the Cornish people as a symbol of their identity, displayed on cars and flying from buildings including those of Cornwall Council. St Piran's Day is an annual patronal fête, and the pre-eminent Cornish festival celebrating Cornish culture and history on 5 March.\n\nThe Cornish language is derived from the Brythonic branch of the Insular Celtic languages. It is closely related to the Breton language, and to a lesser extent shares commonalities with the Welsh language, although they are not mutually intelligible. The language functioned as a community language in Cornwall until a language shift to the English language was completed during the late 18th century. The demise of the Cornish language is attributed to English cultural influence, particularly the political and religious dominance of the English Reformation and the Act of Uniformity 1549 which outlawed all church services within the Kingdom of England that were not in English. The exact date of the death of using the Cornish language is unclear and disputed, but popularly it is claimed that the last monolingual Cornish speaker was Dolly Pentreath, a Mousehole resident who died in 1777.\n\nThe revival of Cornish began in 1904 when Henry Jenner, a Celtic language enthusiast, published his book \"Handbook of the Cornish Language\". He based his work on Cornish as it was spoken in the 18th century, although his pupil Robert Morton Nance, with his orthography, Unified Cornish, later steered the revival more towards the Middle Cornish that had been used in the 16th century, before the language became more heavily influenced by English. This set the tone for the next few decades; as the revival gained pace, learners of the language disagreed on which style of Cornish to use, and a number of competing orthographies—Unified Cornish, Unified Cornish Revised, Modern Cornish, Kernewek Kemmyn—were in use by the end of the 20th century. A standard written form was agreed in 2008.\n\nCornish is a restored and living modern language, but most of its speakers are enthusiasts, persons who have learned the language through private study. Cornish speakers are geographically dispersed, meaning there is no part of Cornwall where it is spoken as a community language. As of 2009, it is taught in fifty primary schools, although regular broadcast in Cornish is limited to a weekly bilingual programme on BBC Radio Cornwall. Daily life in Cornwall therefore is conducted in the English language, albeit with some regional peculiarities.\n\n\"Legends of the Fall\", a novella by American author Jim Harrison, detailing the lives of a Cornish American family in the early 20th century, contains several Cornish language terms. These were also included in the Academy Award winning film of the same name starring Anthony Hopkins as Col. William Ludlow and Brad Pitt as Tristan Ludlow.\n\nEarly medieval Cornwall was associated with the Matter of Britain, a national myth recounting a legendary Celtic history of Brittonic warriors, including King Arthur. The Matter of Britain was supported by texts such as the \"Historia Regum Britanniae\", a pseudohistorical account of the history of the ancient Britons, written in the mid-12th century by Geoffrey of Monmouth. The \"Historia Regum Britanniae\" chronicled the lives of legendary kings of the Britons in a narrative spanning a time of two thousand years, beginning with the Trojans founding the ancient British nation and continuing until the Anglo-Saxon invasion of Britain in the 5th century forced the Celtic Britons to the west coast, namely Wales and Cornwall. Although broadly thought of as a work of fiction, Geoffrey of Monmouth's work had a lasting effect upon the identity of the Cornish. His \"historical construct\" characterised the ancient Britons as heroes, which later helped Celtic revivalists to redefine Cornishness as an identity closely related to ancient heroic Celtic folklore.\n\nAnother strand of Cornish folklore is derived from tales of seafaring pirates and smugglers who thrived in and around Cornwall from the early modern period through to the 19th century. Cornish pirates exploited both their knowledge of the Cornish coastline as well as its sheltered creeks and hidden anchorages. For many fishing villages, loot and contraband provided by pirates supported a strong and secretive underground economy in Cornwall.\n\nLegendary creatures that appear in Cornish folklore include buccas, knockers and piskies. Tales of these creatures are thought to have developed as supernatural explanations for the frequent and deadly cave-ins that occurred during 18th-century Cornish tin mining, or else a creation of the oxygen-starved minds of exhausted miners who returned from the underground.\n\nCeltic crosses, many dating from between the 7th and 15th centuries, are found in Cornwall and have been used as inspiration in modern and contemporary Cornish visual arts. In the 1780s, John Opie was the first Cornish-born painter to gain widespread attention; his work was exhibited at the Royal Academy and he was described by Joshua Reynolds as \"like Caravaggio and Velázquez in one\". Artists who appreciated the quality of Cornwall's natural light, such as J. M. W. Turner, began to visit, with more following after the opening of the Great Western Railway, including Whistler and Sickert. Stanhope Forbes and Frank Bramley settled in Cornwall in the 1880s, establishing the Newlyn School of painting \"en plein air\". By the 1920s, the ceramicist Bernard Leach was established at St Ives, and the St Ives School for abstract artists formed there, influenced by naive painters such as Alfred Wallis, and involving the work of Ben Nicholson, his wife Barbara Hepworth, Naum Gabo and Patrick Heron.\n\nAnciently, the religion of the Cornish Britons was Celtic polytheism, a pagan, animistic faith, assumed to be led by Druids in full or in part. Early Christianity is thought to have existed in Cornwall during the 1st century, but limited to individual travellers and visitors, possibly including Priscillian, a Galician theologian who may have been exiled to the Isles of Scilly. Celtic Christianity was introduced to Cornwall in the year 520 by Saint Petroc, a Brython from the kingdom of Glywysing, and other missionaries from Wales, as well as by Gaelic monks and holy women from Ireland; this \"formative period\" has left a legacy of granite high cross monuments throughout Cornwall. Dedications to many different Cornish saints can also be traced to this period. In the Middle Ages, Roman Catholicism was dominant in Cornwall, and even in the 17th century the Cornish were \"fervently Roman Catholic\", slow to accept the Protestant Reformation, according to some scholars. The adoption of Anglicanism was, eventually, near-universal in Cornwall and facilitated the anglicisation of the Cornish people. A variety of dissenting congregations such as the Quakers and Baptists were to be found in certain districts. Through a combination of tours of Cornwall by John Wesley, rural isolation and compatibility with Cornish tastes and sensibilities, Methodism, an evangelical revival movement within the Church of England, became the form of Christianity practised by the majority of the population all over Cornwall during the 19th century. During this time other kinds of Methodist churches appeared such as the Bible Christians and there were also Evangelical and Anglo-Catholic revivals within the Church of England.\n\nCornish cuisine is a regional variety of British cuisine, strongly rooted in a tradition of using local produce, which is used to create relatively simple dishes. Most prominent in Cornish cuisine is the pasty (sometimes known as the Cornish pasty) made from diced beef, potato, onion and swede (commonly called 'turnip' by the Cornish), enclosed within a pastry crust and then baked. One idea of its origins suggests that it evolved as a portable lunch for Cornish miners, the crust serving as a disposable handle that could be held by a miner's hand without soiling the filling. Fish was an important element of the Cornish diet, but international commercial fishing was also well established by the 16th century, and tons of pilchards were exported from Cornwall to France, Italy and Spain every year. Stargazy pie is an occasional festive Cornish dish with the heads of fish standing on their tails, originally pilchards, piercing a pastry crust. The saffron bun, also known as the tea treat bun, is a sweet bread with its origins in Cornwall.\n\nWith its comparatively small, rural population, major contribution by the Cornish to national sport in the United Kingdom has been limited. There are no teams affiliated to the Cornwall County Football Association that play in the Football League of England and Wales, and the Cornwall County Cricket Club plays as one of the minor counties of English cricket. Viewed as an \"important identifier of ethnic affiliation\", rugby union has become a sport strongly tied with notions of Cornishness, and since the 20th century, rugby union in Cornwall has emerged as one of the most popular spectator and team sports in Cornwall, with professional Cornish rugby footballers being described as a \"formidable force\", \"naturally independent, both in thought and deed, yet paradoxically staunch English patriots whose top players have represented England with pride and passion\". In 1985, sports journalist Alan Gibson made a direct connection between love of rugby in Cornwall and the ancient parish games of hurling and wrestling that existed for centuries before rugby officially began.\n\nCornish wrestling (also known as Wrasslin') is a regional, folk style of grappling or martial arts. The Cornish Wrestling Association was formed in 1923, to standardise the rules of the sport and to promote Cornish wrestling throughout Cornwall and the world. Together with Cornish hurling (a localised form of medieval football), Wrasslin' has been promoted as a distinctly Celtic game, tied closely with Cornish identity.\n\nSurfing was popularised in Cornwall during the late 20th century, and has since become readily associated with Cornishness. The waves around the Cornish coastline are created by low pressure systems from the Atlantic Ocean which unleash powerful swells eastwards creating multiple, excellent surfing conditions in some parts of the coast of Cornwall. Newquay, one of Britain's \"premier surfing towns\", regularly hosts world championship surfing events.\n\nThe politics of Cornwall take place within a wider national political framework of a constitutional monarchy, in which the United Kingdom's monarch is head of state and the Prime Minister of the United Kingdom is the head of government, and the supranational framework of the European Union. Cornish politics are marked by a long tradition of Liberalism.\n\nImportant historical institutions were the Duchy of Cornwall and the Cornish Stannary Courts and Parliaments. The Stannary court administered equity, through special laws and legal exemptions, for all matters relating to the tin mines and tin trade in Cornwall. Cornish miners were effectively exempt from the jurisdiction of the law courts at Westminster, except \"in such cases as should affect land, life or limb\". The ancient privileges of the Stannary Courts and Parliaments were confirmed by successive Royal Charters in the Middle Ages, including those administered by Kings John, Edward I and Edward III of England. As the tin mines of Cornwall lost their economic importance during the 18th and 19th centuries, so the Stannary institutions lost political power. The last Stannary parliament was held at Truro in 1752, and continued, by adjournments, until 11 September 1753.\n\nAs in the rest of Great Britain, the Liberal Party dominated Cornish politics during the 19th century, although Socialism gained limited support in western Cornwall, and the Labour Party won preference after World War I. Nationalism (or regionalism) in Cornwall traces its roots to the Irish Home Rule bills of the late 19th century, and is represented by the Cornish self-government movement, a political action group that is predominantly organised to promote Cornwall as the national homeland of the Cornish, campaign for devolution, and win it the status as a fifth country within the UK rather than outright separatism. More \"militant\" variants of Cornish nationalism however claim that because of historical constitutional peculiarities regarding the status of Cornwall, the law of the European Union does or should not have jurisdiction over Cornwall until Cornish sovereignty is recognised. Popularisation of Cornish nationalism is attributed to a Celtic cultural revival in Cornwall which itself began with a newed interested in the Cornish language in the 1920s. The revival of the Cornish language encouraged a parallel revival of Celtic traditions, which by the 1970s had spurred on Cornish nationalism. The United Kingdom's entry into the European Economic Community in 1973 prompted claims that the Cornish should be granted their own devolved national assembly—the Cornish Assembly—comparable to that of the National Assembly for Wales. Mebyon Kernow is a left-wing political party based in Cornwall, founded in 1951. Its main objective is attaining greater autonomy for Cornwall through the establishment of a legislative Cornish Assembly. As at 2009 Mebyon Kernow has no Members of Parliament elected to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom, and in the 2009 United Kingdom local elections received 4 per cent of votes to elect councillors to Cornwall Council, behind the Conservative Party (34 per cent), Liberal Democrats (28 per cent), and Independents (23 per cent) Since the 2009 structural changes to local government in England, Cornwall Council has been a unitary authority, serving as the sole executive, deliberative, and legislative body responsible for local policy, setting council tax, and allocating budgets.\n\nFollowing the Cornwall Council election in May 2013, the council remained as \"no overall control\", with the Independent politicians becoming the largest grouping on the council through a modest gain of councillors from the previous election. The Liberal Democrats remained the second largest party after losing 2 councillors and the Conservatives slipped to third after losing over a third of their councillors. The Labour Party (+8), UKIP (+6), and the Green Party (+1) all gained seats, with UKIP and the Greens entering Cornwall Council for the first time. Mebyon Kernow had 6 councilors prior to the election, having added 2 since the 2009 election, their total following the election was reduced to 4.\n\nIn the 2015 general election all Cornish seats were won by the Conservatives. This was repeated in the 2017 general election.\n\nIn the UK's 2021 census plans, a \"tickbox\" for claiming \"Cornish\" as a national minority status has not been implemented and is under debate. Since Cornwall was officially given \"official national minority status\" in 2014, the Cornwall Council's Party Leaders have submitted a letter to the cabinet office of Chloe Smith for the Minister of State. In the coming weeks, Parliament is set to debate The Census Order. If enough Members of Parliament side with the Cornish people and stand in solidarity with their cause, a box to select a \"Cornish\" identity could be added-- reaffirming the official identity they established 6 years prior.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300569", "title": "Red Devil Dawn", "text": "Red Devil Dawn\n\nRed Devil Dawn (2003) is the third studio album recorded by the indie rock band Crooked Fingers. Released by Merge Records in January 2003, \"Red Devil Dawn\" is the follow-up to 2001's \"Bring on the Snakes\" and is the first album released by Crooked Fingers on Merge.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300570", "title": "Hollie Dunaway", "text": "Hollie Dunaway\n\nHollie Natashia Dunaway (born October 18, 1984) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 2003 to 2013. She held the IBA female minimumweight title from 2004 to 2006 and challenged for three major female world titles.\n\nDunaway had no amateur boxing background before she turned professional. She made her boxing debut on February 4, 2003, at The New Daisy Theatre in Memphis, Tennessee, where she lost to Melissa Shaffer. She lost two of her first three professional bouts, but went on to win 13 of her next 14.\n\nOn April 16, 2005, in Magdeburg, Germany, Regina Halmich won a ten-round unanimous decision over Dunaway, defending her Women's International Boxing Federation flyweight title. As of July 2005, Dunaway's professional boxing record was 14-4-0 (9 KOs). On February 16, 2006, she successfully defended her Women's International Boxing Association (WIBA) minimumweight title against Shaffer in Kansas City, Missouri, winning in a unanimous decision (100-90, 99-91, 99-91). This result made Dunaway's record 15-5-0 (9 KOs). On September 21, 2006, she defended her WIBA minimumweight world title for the second time against Dee Hamaguchi, knocking her down twice in the first round and winning the match by seventh-round stoppage. On November 25, 2006, she went to Budapest and beat world champion Krisztina Belinszky (19-4-2) for two world titles. On March 15, 2007, at the Ameristar Casino in St. Louis, Dunaway beat Wendy Rodriguez (17-2-3) in an eight-round unanimous decision. The judges' scores were 80-72, 80-72, and 79-73. On August 3, 2007, she beat Mary Ortega (28-3-1) in a unanimous decision by the judges.\n\nOn January 11, 2008, Dunaway moved up to flyweight and captured the North American Boxing Federation flyweight title by beating Sharon Gaines in a unanimous decision (she later fought Gaines to a draw on September 27 of the same year). On June 13, she lost to Rodriguez while fighting for the vacant International Boxing Association minimumweight title. On February 28, 2009, she lost in South Korea against Hi Jyun Park for the International Female Boxers Association minimumweight title. On August 22, she beat Mayela Perez. In 2010, she won against Chantel Cordova on January 28. She lost to Ana Maria Torres on November 6, fighting for the WBC super flyweight title. In 2011, 2012, and 2013, she fought only once per year. She lost to Katia Gutierrez on April 16, 2011, in a fight for the vacant International Boxing Federation minimumweight title. A fight against Becky Garcia on April 26, 2012, ended in no contest. She lost to Cordova on November 15, 2013.\n\nDunaway has fought in four weight divisions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300571", "title": "TPP Nikola Tesla", "text": "TPP Nikola Tesla\n\nTPP Nikola Tesla is a power plant complex operated by Elektroprivreda Srbije, located on the right bank of the river Sava, approximately 40 km upstream from Downtown Belgrade, near the city municipality of Obrenovac. By far the largest one in Serbia, the complex generates around 17.263 GWh annually, which covers almost half of Serbia's needs for electricity. The complex and two of its plants are named in honor of Nikola Tesla.\n\nThese power plants use lignite mined from the RB Kolubara as fuel. Coal is transported from the mines via a normal-gauge railroad about 30 km long capable of supplying a total of 37 million tons of coal a year.\n\nSix generation units with a combined capacity of 1650.5 MW that makes it the largest power facility in the former Yugoslavia. TPP Nikola Tesla A was first synchronised on March 27, 1970. It has two chimneys: one with a height of 220 metres and a second with a height of 150 metres.\n\nLocated between the villages of Skela and Ušće. There are two generation units with a total capacity of 1240 MW. TPP Nikola Tesla B was first synchronised on March 11, 1983. Its chimney is 280 metres tall.\n\nLocated on the right bank of the river Velika Morava near the town of Svilajnac. 125 MW Power Generator.\n\nLocated at the edge of Kolubara coal basin in the village Veliki Crljeni. Capacity 271 MW.\n\nTPP Nikola Tesla operates its own railway with over 100 km rail tracks total. The railway is used for coal transport from the mines to the power plants. It is independent from the national rail freight transport company Srbija Kargo.\n\nRailway tracks are electrified with 25 kV 50 Hz overhead line. The line is powered from Brgule. The railway has connection to the Belgrade–Bar railway at Vreoci.\n\nMain railway tracks:\n\nTerminal railway tracks:\n\nThere are several loading, unloading train stations and interstations.\n\nLoading stations:\n\nUnloading stations:\nInterstations:\n\nRailway transport of TPP NT has a fleet of 18 electric locomotives and 8 diesel locomotives. Nine locomotives are used for freight train hauling and 16 are used for maneuvering.\n\nElectric locomotives\n\nDiesel locomotives\n\nRailway transport of TPP NT operates with 334 Class F special open high-sided wagons made by Arbel. Wagons are equipped with hydraulic installation for fast discharge, which allows to unload coal for 1–2 seconds. Each wagon is 15.16m long, has four axles and capacity of 56.4 tons.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300574", "title": "Bangor Civic Center", "text": "Bangor Civic Center\n\nThe Bangor Civic Center was a convention center located in Bangor, Maine. It contained of exhibit and meeting space, enough for 9 meetings at the same time. In addition to meetings, it could also host trade shows, wedding receptions, and banquets.\n\nIt could seat up to 1,200 in the main hall. An adjacent lecture room could hold up to 200 people, while the mezzanine could hold 150 people.\n\nThe Civic Center was part of the same complex as the Bangor Auditorium.\n\nThe two buildings began to be demolished on June 03, 2013, as they were replaced by the newly built Cross Insurance Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300575", "title": "M9 bayonet", "text": "M9 bayonet\n\nThe M9 Bayonet, officially known as the M9 Phrobis III, is a multi-purpose knife and bayonet officially adopted in 1986 by the United States. It has a blade and is issued with a sheath designed to double as a wire cutter.\n\nThe M9 bayonet was designed and developed by Charles A. \"Mickey\" Finn at his R&D company, Qual-A-Tec. It is a refined copy of the Russian AKM Type I bayonet. He later produced it under the Phrobis III name, filling a military contract for 325,000 units. Buck Knives was contracted to make 300,000 units and sold a commercial version under their own name. Finn's designs proved extremely popular, and were widely counterfeited and sold illegally by other makers. In 1986, Finn received , however they continued to flow unchecked into the United States from Asia and Mexico, cutting into legitimate sales.\n\nAfter the Phrobis III bayonet contract was completed, rights to the M9 reverted to the United States Army and there were many subsequent versions from other companies. It is issued by the armed forces of the U.S. and other countries, and has also been sold commercially in various versions.\n\nSome production runs of the M9 have a fuller and some do not, depending upon which contractor manufactured that batch and what the military specs were at the time. The M9 Bayonet partially replaced the older M7 Bayonet, introduced in 1964. Although it has been claimed that the M9 may be more prone to breakage than the older M7, the M9 bayonet has a 20% thicker blade and tang (0.235\" vs. 0.195\") and a 75% greater cross-sectional area of steel in the blade than the M7.\n\nThe M11 knife (not strictly a bayonet as it has no mounting catch or muzzle ring; more of a revision to the Buckmaster 184/188 knife, which was the basis for the Phrobis XM-9 prototype bayonet), or M11 EOD is a version of the M9 specialized for explosive ordnance disposal (EOD). It has some extra features, such as a hammer pommel, but uses the same blade and sheath as the M9.\n\nThere have been five main makes of M9s: Phrobis, Buck (subcontracted by Phrobis III during the original Army contract), LanCay, Ontario and Tri-Technologies. Starting in 1987, Phrobis subcontracted Buck, finishing up in 1989. It was around this time that Buck sold commercial M9s as well, which it did up to 1997.\n\nLanCay got its first contract in March 1992 (taking over production from Buck) for 30 (later 50) thousand knives (with General Cutlery as a subcontractor); in 1994, there was another contract issued for about 100,000 improved M9 models. In 1999, a contract for 25,000 knives was split between LanCay and Ontario (12,500 each).\n\nOntario Knife Company also participated in later contracts, and is one of the current (as of 2005) contractors for producing them. These can be identified by the blades, which are marked \"M-9 / ONTARIO / KNIFE CO / USA\". \n\nIn 2012, Tri-Technologies was awarded a contract for 40,000 M9s marked \"M9/06MA8/USA\". \n\nClones are made in China by Xiafeng Machinery.\n\nThe M7 bayonet, introduced in 1964, was used as a bayonet on the M16 rifle and as a fighting knife. The M9 multipurpose bayonet system is used as a bayonet on the M16 series rifle, on the M4 series carbine, as a fighting knife, as a general field and utility knife, as a wire cutter when used on the sheath, and as a saw. The M9 also fits the Mossberg 590 Special Purpose shotgun.\n\nAn overview of M9 types made by Buck Knives, one of the manufacturers of M9 bayonets. The 5,000 for the U.S. Marines are included under the U.S. Army numbers in this listing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300576", "title": "S.C.A.T.: Special Cybernetic Attack Team", "text": "S.C.A.T.: Special Cybernetic Attack Team\n\nS.C.A.T.: Special Cybernetic Attack Team, also known as in Japan and Action in New York in Europe and Australia, is a science fiction side-view shoot-'em-up produced by Natsume for the Nintendo Entertainment System. Within PAL-A regions, the game was only released in the UK. It was released in Japan in 1990, in North America in 1991, and in the PAL region in 1992. It was also later released on the Virtual Console in the PAL region on February 4, 2011, in North America on February 7, 2011 for the Wii and in the PAL region on December 4, 2014 for the Nintendo 3DS and Wii U.\n\nIn 2029, an army of alien invaders led by Vile Malmort has planted an \"Astrotube\" connecting the ruins of New York City with their space station. A team of part-human part-machine soldiers known as the Special Cybernetic Attack Team or \"SCAT\" has been assembled in order to combat the invasion.\n\n\"S.C.A.T.\" can be played by up to two players simultaneously. During the 1-Player Mode, the player can choose between a male soldier named Arnold, or a female one named Sigourney, while in 2 Players mode, Player 1 controls Arnold while Player 2 controls Sigourney. There's no skill differences between the two characters.\n\nAs Arnold or Sigourney, the player flies through the air shooting at enemies with their gun while the screen scrolls automatically horizontally or vertically until reaching the end of each stage (similarly to the Capcom arcade game \"Forgotten Worlds\"). While the player character can fly in eight directions, he or she can only shoot with their gun left or right. However, the player is surrounded by two satellite modules that will shoot at enemies at the same time the player fires their weapon. The satellites will orbit around the player by default, with one orbiting atop the player and the other below him or her. If the satellites are aligned in a position the player wants to maintain, they can keep the position by pressing the A button. The player can toggle back and forth between the two satellite modes.\n\nThere are five power-up items that can be obtained by destroying certain containers, each represented by a letter-based icon. Three of these items are new weapons that will replace the player's default gun (a Laser, a Wide Beam, and a Bomb launcher), while the other two are a speed power-up and a life recovery. There are a total of five stages in the game, along with the usual boss encounters. The player begins the game with a total of six hit points and the game will end if they are all lost. However unlike \"Shadow of the Ninja\", the player is given unlimited chances to continue.\n\nThe Japanese version, \"Final Mission\", was released a year before the American version and there are a few differences between the two. The game's opening story sequence is completely different, showing the obliteration of various cities before the alien invasion begins. Instead of a selectable male or female main character, both players control palette-swapped male soldiers. The game's difficulty was made easier for the American version as well. Instead of six lives, the player begins with only three lives and any upgrade they possess is lost whenever their character is hit. The player's satellites also function differently. Instead of orbiting automatically, they're aligned by the player while moving the character left or right. Their firepower was also weaker. The map shown before each stage in the American version was not featured in the original Japanese version.\n\nThe European version, \"Action in New York\", is almost identical to the American version. Besides the title change, the names of the main characters were also changed from Arnold and Sigourney to Silver Man and Sparks respectively. Their respective likeness to their namesakes, actors Arnold Schwarzenegger and Sigourney Weaver, was left unchanged. Their team affiliation was also changed from \"SCAT\" to \"SAT\" (Special Attack Team).\n\nThe music by Kiyohiro Sada is universally praised alongside the high quality of the gameplay.\n"}
{"id": "2300591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300591", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: C", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: C\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter C.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300593", "title": "Salvage 1", "text": "Salvage 1\n\nSalvage 1 is an American science fiction series that was broadcast for 16 episodes (of the 20 produced) on ABC during 1979. The pilot film, \"Salvage\", was shown on January 20, 1979, to high ratings.\n\nThis show is one of the first new filmed shows from Columbia Pictures Television to not display a copyright notice under the show's logo at the beginning, but rather at the end.\n\nThe pilot centers on Harry Broderick (Andy Griffith) who owns the Jettison Scrap and Salvage Co. and is a specialist in reclaiming trash and junk to sell as scrap. His dream is to recover equipment left on the Moon during Apollo Program missions. In the show's opening title narration, Harry states:\n\n\"I wanna build a spaceship, go to the Moon, salvage all the junk that's up there, bring it back and sell it.\"\n\nHe invites the former astronaut Addison \"Skip\" Carmichael (Joel Higgins) and NASA fuel expert Melanie \"Mel\" Slozar (Trish Stewart) to assist him in this effort.\n\nBroderick and his ragtag crew complete their mission and go on to further adventures in the subsequent series.\n\nHarry builds a spaceship dubbed \"Vulture\", made completely from reclaimed salvage and powered by a chemical called monohydrazine. The main body of \"Vulture\" is composed of a Texaco gasoline semi-trailer tank truck with a cement mixer as the capsule. This is augmented with three shorter rocket boosters placed 120 degrees around the main tank.\n\nThe first season ranked 48th out of 114 shows that season with an average 17.7/26 rating/share.\n\nThe last four episodes were shown in the early 1990s on The Nostalgia Channel, now known as Youtoo TV.\nScience fiction author Isaac Asimov was the show's scientific adviser.\n\nEstes Rockets made a prototype of a model rocket version of the \"Vulture\". It was never brought to market.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300597", "title": "Baby Jane Hudson", "text": "Baby Jane Hudson\n\nBaby Jane Hudson is a fictional character and the antagonist of Henry Farrell's 1960 novel \"What Ever Happened to Baby Jane?\" She was portrayed by Bette Davis in the 1962 film adaptation and by Lynn Redgrave in the 1991 made-for-television remake. The 1962 production is the better-known, with Bette Davis earning an Academy Award nomination for her performance. The character is portrayed by Susan Sarandon, who plays Bette Davis, in the TV anthology \"Feud: Bette and Joan\" aired in 2017.\n\nAt the start of the book, Baby Jane Hudson is a highly successful child star in vaudeville, billed as \"The Diminutive Dancing Duse from Duluth\". In the film version, a prologue set in 1917 shows her performing with her father while her mother and sister Blanche watch from backstage. She is favored and spoiled by her father, while her mother attempts to soothe Blanche's envy and resentment by promising that one day \"she\" will achieve stardom.\n\nThe novel reveals that, when both parents die in the late-1910s flu pandemic, the sisters move to Hollywood to live with an aunt who favors Blanche the way their father prefers Jane. (This detail is absent in the film.) By the mid-1930s, Blanche and Jane are Hollywood actresses. Blanche is a successful star, while Jane gets film work only because her sister's contract demands it. Blanche is the leading lady of her era, but Jane is widely seen as a has-been, and her films are critical and commercial failures.\n\nOne night, an inebriated Jane mocks and humiliates Blanche at a party, provoking Blanche into leaving in tears. That night, Blanche is paralyzed from the waist down in a mysterious car accident that is unofficially blamed on Jane, who is found three days later in a drunken stupor with no memory of the party and its aftermath. The accident ends Blanche and Jane's careers. Jane spends the next three decades living with and caring for Blanche, stoking bitter resentment which consumes her.\n\nOver the years, Jane sinks into alcoholism and mental illness. She is now a grotesque caricature of her childhood self, wearing hideously caked-on make-up, her hair in greasy curls, and dressing like a 10-year-old girl. A television retrospective honoring Blanche's old films sends Jane into a jealous rage as she realizes that she is no longer the ingenue she once was. Jane is driven to desperation by the combination of the increased attention towards Blanche and her discovery that Blanche plans to sell the house and have her committed to a mental hospital.\n\nDelusional and stuck in the past, she clings to hopes of reviving her childhood act, even though she is approaching old age. She steals Blanche's money to pay for an accompanist and for adult-sized versions of her little-girl costumes. She removes Blanche's telephone, making her a virtual prisoner in her room. Jane gets drunk and pathetically sings her signature song, \"I've Written a Letter to Daddy\", a maudlin song from her childhood act. However, upon seeing her reflection and the ravages of age and alcoholism, Jane snaps and destroys the mirror. She kills Blanche's pet parakeet and serves it to her on a dinner platter; she later serves Blanche a dead rat the same way.\n\nWhen Blanche's cleaning woman, Elvira Stitt, threatens to report Jane's abuses, Jane kills her with a hammer and disposes of the dead body. After the police call about Elvira, whose family has reported her missing, Jane worries that she will be caught. When Edwin Flagg, the accompanist she hires to revive her Baby Jane act, discovers Blanche bound and gagged in the bedroom, he calls the police and Jane flees to the seashore with Blanche.\n\nOn the beach, a near-death Blanche reveals that she is paraplegic by her own fault: she intended to kill Jane by running her down, but her car struck the metal gates outside their mansion instead, snapping Blanche's spine. Blanche blamed the accident on Jane, who was too drunk to remember the incident. This revelation destroys what little remains of Jane's sanity, and she regresses to her childhood and becomes \"Baby Jane\" once again, dancing for startled on-lookers at the beach. When two policemen notice the Hudsons' illegally parked car nearby and link it to Elvira's death, they spot Blanche lying on the sand and rush to her aid. Jane is too caught up in her delusions to notice the policemen's presence.\n\nAmong the film's most recognized images is Bette Davis as the aged Jane in blond Mary Pickford-like curls performing the syrupy song \"I've Written a Letter to Daddy.\"\n\nJane's final scene in the film is reminiscent of the final scene of \"Sunset Boulevard\", where Gloria Swanson's character descends the stairs for an imagined film scene after killing her lover. The success of the movie led the director to undertake a film using similar themes and characters, \"Hush...Hush, Sweet Charlotte\", also starring Davis as a mentally unstable recluse lost in her delusions.\n\nJane and Blanche's story is parodied in an apocryphal comic strip in \"\" by Alan Moore and Kevin O'Neill.\n\nIn this film, director Robert Aldrich mined the careers of his two stars, Bette Davis and Joan Crawford (who played Blanche), by using their early (circa 1930s) film clips when the story called for examples of their characters' work. The other characters react to clips of Bette Davis's early roles with dismay at her \"bad acting\", and when clips of Joan Crawford's old movies are shown the other characters speak with praise for her acting. (Davis's scenes, from the film \"Ex-Lady\", are deliberately presented out of context to make Jane Hudson's performance seem amateurish.)\n"}
{"id": "2300599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300599", "title": "J. B. Martin", "text": "J. B. Martin\n\nDr. J. B. Martin (1885-1973) was president of the Negro American League and owned the Chicago American Giants baseball team.\n\nMartin and his brother B. B. Martin were Memphis dentists with other business interests. One of these was the Memphis Red Sox. The brothers built Martin Park on Crump Boulevard, Memphis for the club, making the Red Sox one of the few clubs in the Negro Leagues with their own ballpark.\n\nMartin appointed Ted \"Double Duty\" Radcliffe as manager of the Chicago American Giants in 1950. He was concerned about black players joining Major League teams so he instructed Radcliffe to sign white players. Radcliffe recruited at least five young white players (Lou Chirban, Lou Clarizio, and others). The team disbanded in 1952.\n"}
{"id": "2300602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300602", "title": "Toktogul", "text": "Toktogul\n\nToktogul is a city in Jalal-Abad Region of Kyrgyzstan. Its population was 16,429 in 2009.\n\nIt is named after its most famous son - the musician Toktogul Satilganov. It is located on the northern shore of the Toktogul reservoir. To the south, highway M41 curves around the eastern end of the reservoir toward Karaköl and Jalal-Abad city. To the north the road goes up the Chychkan valley into Talas Region on its way to Bishkek. It has 10 sub-districts: Aralbaev district (Toluk- previous name), Bel-Aldy (Sary-Sogot previous name), Jany-Jol, Kyzyl-Ozgorush, Nichke-Say, Ketmen-Dobo, Sary-Kamysh, Torken, Uch-Terek and Cholpon-Ata.\n"}
{"id": "2300603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300603", "title": "Burow's solution", "text": "Burow's solution\n\nBurow's solution is an aqueous solution of aluminium triacetate. It is available in the U.S. as an over-the-counter drug for topical administration, with brand names including Domeboro (Moberg Pharma), Domeboro Otic (ear drops), Star-Otic, and Borofair.\nThe preparation has astringent and antibacterial properties and may be used to treat a number of skin conditions, including insect bites and stings, rashes caused by poison ivy and poison sumac, swelling, allergies, and bruises. However, its main use is for treatment of otitis (ear infection), including otomycosis (fungal ear infection).\n\nThe creator of Burow's solution was Karl August Burow (1809-1874), a military surgeon and anatomist. Burow was also the inventor of some plastic surgery and wound healing techniques which are still in wide use today.\n\nThe pronunciation of the solution's name in English either parallels a misconceived German pronunciation (). However names ending -ow originating in Eastern Germany, e.g. Saxony, are pronounced with a long unstressed o (). The spelling pronunciation (), which is more intuitive to native speakers of English, is therefore also closer to the original German.\n\nBurow's solution may be used to treat various forms of otitis. As a drug it is inexpensive and non-ototoxic. In cases of otomycosis it is less effective than clotrimazole but remains an effective treatment.\n\nMost versions of Burow's solution can be used as a soak or compress. As an FDA approved astringent it is used for the relief of skin irritations due to poison ivy, oak and sumac, and rashes from allergic reactions to soaps, detergents, cosmetics and jewelry. This is due to the combination of two active ingredients found in this version of Burow's solution, i.e. aluminum sulfate tetradecahydrate and calcium acetate monohydrate.\n\nMany consumers have found off-label uses for Burow's solution. Due to the strength of the solution, some use it to treat ingrown nails, where Burow's solution is used in combination with warm water to help consumers reduce irritation and contain infection when present.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300604", "title": "John Dobson", "text": "John Dobson\n\nJohn Dobson is the name of:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300609", "title": "Zona Rosa, Mexico City", "text": "Zona Rosa, Mexico City\n\nZona Rosa () is a neighborhood in Mexico City which is known for its shopping, nightlife, gay community, and its recently established Korean community. The neighborhood is officially part of the Colonia Juárez colonia or official neighborhood, located just west of the historic center of Mexico City.\n\nThe area's history as a community began when it was developed as a residential district for wealthy foreigners and Mexico City residents looking to move from the city center. The development of the area stalled during and after the Mexican Revolution. From the 1950s to 1980s the neighborhood was revitalized by artists, intellectuals and the city's elite who repopulated the area, gave it a bohemian reputation and attracted exclusive restaurants and clubs for visiting politicians and other notables. It was during this time that the area received the name of Zona Rosa, from José Luis Cuevas. The era ended in the 1980s, when many of the upscale businesses moved out and tourism, men's clubs, prostitution and other crime moved in.\n\nAlthough the area has declined during the 1980s, it is still a major shopping and entertainment district and has also become a major tourist attraction for the city, one that the city has worked to preserve and rehabilitate since the 2000s, with mixed success. From the 1990s, the area has also become home to Mexico City's gay community, which is prominent around Amberes Street and sponsors an annual pride parade on Paseo de la Reforma.\n\nZona Rosa is a portion of the official neighborhood of Colonia Juárez, comprising 24 of the colonia's 99 city blocks. The borders of the area are formed by Paseo de la Reforma to the north, Varsovia Street to the west, Avenida Insurgentes to the east, and Chapultepec Avenue and Metro Insurgentes to the south. Most of the streets in the area are named after European cities. A number of these streets are made of cobblestone, with two pedestrian-only. About 40 sculptures — 17 created by young artists from the Escuela Nacional de Artes Plasticas of UNAM — have been installed on various streets, sponsored by the Rotary Club of Zona Rosa.\n\nThe area is one of Mexico City's primary shopping districts and nightclub areas. Streets are filled with bars and nightclubs, which fill on weekends. Among these clubs, men's clubs with table dances and gay bars stand out. In total, there are 714 businesses in the area, 137 of which are restaurants, which cater to foreign and Mexican visitors as well as businessmen who work on nearby Paseo de la Reforma. From its bohemian and intellectual heritage, there are also art galleries, bookstores and the like. El Péndulo is a café/bookstore located on Hamburgo Street, which also serves breakfast with tables available in the indoor dining room and on a terrace. Many of its dishes are named after famous writers. The menu includes international items such as eggs in various styles and French toast as well as Mexican staples such as chilaquiles. Patrons are permitted to read selections from the bookstore as they dine.\n\nOne echo from the area's past are a number of early 20th-century mansions built when the area was an exclusive residential area for Mexico City's wealthy. These homes were designed to look European, especially French. Some of these still remain, such as the one at 115 Hamburgo Street, but most are abandoned.\nLeading to the area from the Insurgentes Metro is Genova Street, a pedestrian mall lined with eateries, 13 of which own areas on the street on which to put tables. It is popular with both locals and foreign visitors. Here, dozens of people handing out flyers stop pedestrians and drivers advertising gay bars and men's clubs, some of which operate illegally. It is also the site of the Corridor de Arte José Luis Cuevas, which occurs on weekends when an average of 40 artists display their works for sale. On this street stand around 40 sculptures created by young artists of the Escuela Nacional de Artes Plasticas of UNAM.\n\nDespite the installation of tourist police and other efforts, crime is still a problem in the area. The streets with the most problems are Londres, Hamburgo, Florencia, Liverpool, Niza, Amberes and Genova.\n\nMost of the business conducted in Zona Rosa is through retail establishments. The area is home to 714 businesses, which include 137 restaurants and 37 parking garages. It is still one of the city's primary entertainment and shopping districts. It contains stores (especially clothing stores), cafes, hotels, chain stores, fast-food places, restaurants, major hotels, airline offices, banks, clubs and more. There is an antiques mall on Londres Street, and a large handicrafts and souvenir market called Mercado Insurgentes between Liverpool and Londres street, where a number of shopkeepers speak English and some take U.S. dollars. Approximately 100,000 people pass through the area each day, and an estimated 12,000,000 pesos is spent here each day.\n\nAnother prominent retail segment includes businesses that cater to Mexico City's gay community. Since they were established in the 1990s, these businesses have grown in size and number and include sex shops, bookstores, movie theaters and exclusive hotels, as well as bars and nightclubs. These total over 200 businesses spread over 16 blocks, which is now considered to be the community business center. Most customers in Zona Rosa's businesses are visitors from other parts of the city, foreign tourists, and businessmen who come from nearby office buildings concentrated on or near Paseo de la Reforma. The area that connects Metro Insurgentes with Zona Rosa tends to become crowded with street peddlers selling tamales, perfumes, handicrafts, unlicensed CDs/DVDs and more to passerby groups.\n\nThe attractions of the area for tourists, especially foreign ones, are the shopping, the cafes, and the nightclubs. However, these nightclubs, especially the men's clubs, have a reputation for attracting prostitution, underage drinking, illegal gambling, and other crime, which has a detrimental effect on tourism. The general deterioration of the area, both in physical infrastructure, crime, and types of businesses, has been problematic for the area as well. Although the area is still heavily promoted by the city, its secretary of tourism has admitted that it has lost much of its international prestige and can no longer be assured of its status as a tourist attraction.\n\nTo counter its decline, the city has worked to rehabilitate the area, linking it with the more popular historic center through the Reforma-Centro Historico tourism corridor in 2005. There have been efforts to improve the area through the 2000s, which are projected to continued at least until 2012. This area was designated as a \"Barrio Mágico\" by the city in 2011.\n\nLuxury hotels in the area include Maria Isabel Sheraton, Galeria Plaza, Plaza Florencia, Cristal Rosa, Geneve, Marquis, Aristos, Royal and Marco Polo. Despite the area's problems, the 24 hotels in the area report an average occupancy rate of 80%, mostly from foreign tourists, year-round.\n\nWhile there are about 38 bars and 10 men's clubs known to police that report good business, they also create problems for the area. Many are linked to illicit activities such as prostitution, both male and female, which noticeable on the streets after 10 pm seven days a week. Another problem is “tarjeteros”, who crowd the area's streets day and night (especially Genova Street), handing out cards and flyers to passersby advertising bars, clubs and other businesses. While this activity is legal, these tarjeteros have been accused of bothering area visitors and being associated with small-scale drug trafficking.\n\nThere are several learning institutions within Zona Rosa. For example, CELE (the Center for the Teaching of Foreign Languages) of the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM) has a venue at Milán Street, partially sponsored by Fundación UNAM.\n\nZona Rosa began to be developed along with the rest of Colonia Juárez in the mid-19th century; however, it has always had an independent identity. Originally the area was called “La Teja”, then “La Zona Americana” or “Colonia Americana”, as presidents from Benito Juárez to Porfirio Díaz promoted it for foreign investment and residency up until the early 20th century. The area also attracted Mexico City's elite who were looking to escape the city center. During this time, the area was filled with cafes, pastry shops, and a number of green areas designed to create a European atmosphere. For this reason the streets were named after European cities such as Hamburg (Hamburgo), London (Londres), Copenhagen (Copenhague), Nice (Niza), and Liverpool. The Mexican Revolution put an end to the building here and the initial mansions remained, but many were abandoned.\n\nNevertheless, the area remained one of the more glamorous zones for most of the 20th century. Expensive cafes and restaurants, art galleries, and jewelry stores continued to attract wealthy residents, although on a reduced scale.\n\nIn the 1950s, the area was repopulated and reinvigorated by artists and intellectuals attracted to its location between the historic center and Chapultepec Park. This period saw the opening of trendy bars, clubs, restaurants, cafes, bookstores, and art galleries which gave the area a bohemian feel. By the 1960s, politicians such as Adolfo López Mateos, Adolfo Ruiz Cortines, and Miguel Alemán, as well as painters such as José Luis Cuevas and writers such as Carlos Fuentes and Carlos Monsivais, lived, worked and visited the clubs here such as Café Kineret. Fine restaurants were established such as Focolare in 1953, La Gondola in 1958 and Passy, also in 1958. These three don't exist anymore. Clubs and restaurants were exclusive, with dress codes. However, there were also several clubs known for chorus girls. One of these was the Can-can, on the corner of Hamburgo and Genova Streets. This mix of bohemian and propriety prompted Cuevas to comment that the area \"\"Es demasiado ingenua para ser roja, pero demasiado frívola para ser blanca, por eso es precisamente rosa\" (is too naive to be red, but too frivolous to be white, for this reason it is precisely pink)\". This is the origin of the area's current name.\n\nIn 1967, Cuevas created a mural on a rooftop in Zona Rosa only to destroy it seconds afterwards. This event was meant to rebel against the social and political content of most of Mexico's post-Revoluction mural movement. In 2003, a reproduction of Cuevas’ “ephemeral mural” was placed on the same rooftop on which the artist created and destroyed the original. This era of Zona Rosa's development continued until the 1980s. During this time many galleries, bohemian bars and restaurants opened. The area was considered to be tolerant, intellectual and cosmopolitan. It even had its own literary magazine called \"Zona Rosa\".\n\nProblems in the area began as early as 1968, when the construction of the Mexico City Metro caused the area to lose its exclusiveness and crime increased. Real deterioration began when the older, finer businesses such as boutiques and galleries moved out, mostly due to the economic crisis of the 1980s and the 1985 Mexico City earthquake, which substantially damaged the area. Many of the more exclusive businesses were replaced by men's clubs, gay bars, and massage parlors, which has made Zona Rosa more “red” than “pink”. As the area was promoted for tourism, fast-food places, nightclubs, and bars sprung up, which have engendered problems with underage drinking and prostitution.\n\nLa Ronda was an establishment visited by intellectuals such as Guadalupe Amor and Manuel Felgueres, but today it is a men's club named Foxy's. Other establishments, such as a bar named Tirol once located in one of the area's old mansions, have simply shut down and their buildings remain deserted. Many of the stores selling jewelry, arts and other fine merchandise have been converted into stores with more mass-produced items and souvenirs. Another change occurred in the vicinity of Amberes Street, where bars, clubs and other businesses catering to the gay community have appeared. These are distinguished by the use of rainbow colors on their facades.\n\nMost of the decline of the area occurred in the 1980s and 1990s, when the city was governed by appointees of the federal government. In the late 1990s, the city government began to be elected by residents and in 1997, the ruling PRI lost power in the city to the PRD. The new city government was more interested in promoting and restoring the neighborhood. Tourist police were implemented, and efforts to better regulate businesses, control prostitutions, repair infrastructure and promote tourism were undertaken at various times during the 2000s.\n\nThese efforts have had mixed success. The city has conducted some high-profile raids of clubs such as the Bar Continental DJ Club, searching for drugs and minors. This operation eventually led to the expropriation of the property on Florencia Street as well as another club on Berna Street. They mayor stated it was part of ongoing operations and meant to be a warning to other club owners in the area. The expropriated building on Florence Street now houses a contingent of the Mexico City police. There have also been other raids in response to complaints about underage drinking and illegal gambling.\n\nIn 2007, a public-private venture was started to connect and promote Zona Rosa along with the historic center as the Reforma-Centro Historico corridor. Crime has decreased, but residents and businesses continue to move out, while more “red” businesses move in. In 2004, two theaters were opened exclusively to show erotic movies under the name of Contempo Cinema. According to the owners, the movies shown are not pornography but rather films such as \"Last Tango in Paris\", \"Basic Instinct\" and \"Wild Orchid\", which do not have explicit sex scenes meriting an XXX rating. The new venues have about 200 seats each with a bar, restaurants and film store.\n\nWork on infrastructure has been completed, mostly on Genova and Hamburgo Streets, but residents complain that the work is too slow, hurting their businesses. There are fears that these interventions, along with those scheduled between 2010 and 2012, will not be enough to save the area.\n\nAnother prominent area is Amberes Street, home to Mexico City's gay community. This community was established in the 1990s due to the area's overall tolerance and the fact that police here did not extort members of the gay community. Today, homosexuality on Amberes Streets and the rest of Zona Rosa is fairly open with handholding and kissing among same-sex couples. This has led it to be compared to Barrio de Chueca in Madrid and the Castro District in San Francisco. It is famous for being a gay encounter area, especially for young gay men, with some being minors. The gay community has its own set of looks, body language, phrases and other signals used to identify one another. Another important aspect of the gay culture is clothing, with clothing considered to be in “good taste” making one more successful in meeting potential partners. A number of gay men make money through prostitution, mostly younger men soliciting older men. In 2010, the city opened a consulting office for homosexuals wishing to take advantage of Mexico City's law allowing them to marry.\n\nZona Rosa is one of three areas in Mexico City where gay bars and other businesses operate, along with Plaza Garibaldi and an area on Avenida Insurgentes South. However, Zona Rosa is the largest of these and considered to be the gay community's business center, with over 200 businesses spread over 16 blocks. The best-known businesses are bars such as Hibrido, Caberetito, El Ansia, Black Out, and B-Gay B-Proud (in English). These bars, clubs, and other entertainment places mostly cater to younger crowds and play reggaeton, psycho-punk, etc., with lasers, strobe lights and other typical decor. However, these businesses are usually marked with rainbow colored flags or other decorations on the facade. Singles and couples dance sensually and sometimes a cloud of generated smoke covers the dance floor. Touching and kissing between couples of the same sex is highly tolerated in many of these clubs. Some also have “dark rooms” where patrons can find privacy for more intimate acts. A number also have unofficial dress codes.\n\nZona Rosa's annual pride parade is officially called the Marcha del Orgullo Lésbico, Gay, Bisexual, Transgénero, Travesti, Transsexual e Intersexual (LGBTTTI) (March of Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender, Transvestite, Transsexual and Intersexual Pride). It was first held in 1978 with about 300 people participating. During this event, the nightclubs, discothèques and bars of Zona Rosa fill with members of the LGBT community starting at midday. Many businesses, whether they cater to gays or not, are decorated with rainbow colored balloons, streamers and other items. Despite the crowds, police presence is not significantly heightened.\n\nThe parade usually marches along Paseo de la Reforma from Puerta de los Leones to the Glorieta de la Palma, with the entire stretch completely closed to traffic for the event. The city has even participated, offering free AIDS tests to attendees. In 2003, there were more than 20,000 participants. The 2010 march adopted the theme of \"Marcha del Bicentenario, Marcha de las Libertades\" (March of the Bicentennial, March of Liberties) and extended from the Angel of Independence to the Alameda Central. The march in Mexico City was paralleled in 25 other Mexican cities.\n\nDespite its prominence, the existence of a large, open gay community in Zona Rosa still creates controversy. Some, such as the president of the Agrupacion de Comericantes de la Zona Rosa (Acozoro), Mariano Molina, state that the presence of an open gay community drives away visitors and customers who are not accustomed to seeing gay couples in public. Others state that the government will not work to save the area because of the gay bars and Mexico's ethic of machismo.\n\nWhile male and female prostitution exists in Zona Rosa, there have been complaints of the prostitution of minors in the gay community, despite efforts since the 1990s to eradicate it. Residents and business owners complain that this prostitution is very open and can be very aggressive, centered on the various gay bars that can be found on and around Ambares Street. However, business owners in the gay community state that the prostitution issue, including that of minors, is not the problem that neighbors say it is; rather it is that some have a problem with having an open gay community. These businesses state that gays have a high level of purchasing power and many own their own businesses that employ thousands in the city. They also state that the gay community attracts visitors from other parts of the city and even internationally. This is particularly true on Gay Pride Day, when the city holds a parade on Paseo de la Reforma and at Christmastime.\n\nMost of Mexico City's Korean population of about 9,000 lives in and around Zona Rosa. According to the newspaper \"Reforma\", there are at least 1,000 Koreans living in Zona Rosa proper and about 3,000 total in Colonia Juárez. In Zona Rosa, especially west of Florencia Street, barber shops, restaurants, and Internet cafes with signs in Korean dot the area.\n\nMany Korean residents do not speak Spanish and are relatively isolated from their Mexican neighbors. The area around Hamburgo, Praga, Berna and Biarritz streets has been converted into “Pequeño Seúl” (Little Seoul), with Biarritz Street's residents almost 90% Korean.\n\nThe number of Korean residents in the colonia continues to increase even as the number of younger people in general decreases. Most immigrated to Mexico in the 1990s and the first decade of the 21st century, as a result of commercial agreements signed by the Mexican government with Korea and Taiwan, allowing companies such as Daewoo to bring workers over from Asia. However, according to some sources such as Alfredo Romero, professor of the Faculty of Political and Social Sciences at UNAM, a large percentage of Koreans living in Mexico have questionable immigration status. There have been conflicts between Korean-owned businesses and Mexican neighbors over noise and sanitation issues, with some Mexicans complaining that the Koreans do not want to adapt to Mexican society. Another issue has been legal problems, both with the status of merchandise and the status of employees. A store owned by Koreans was shut down by police for selling imported merchandise of questionable origin in 2002, with 33 workers detained.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300610", "title": "Bangor Auditorium", "text": "Bangor Auditorium\n\nThe Bangor Auditorium was a 5,948 seat multi-purpose arena located in downtown Bangor, Maine. It opened October 1, 1955 and was used for concerts (maximum capacity 6,800), sporting events, circus performances, political rallies, as well as trade shows with 16,000 square feet (1500 m²) of space. It was demolished in 2013. It shared the same complex as the Bangor Civic Center. For decades, it hosted the Maine Principals' Association basketball tournament each February, as well as the graduation ceremonies for Bangor High School in June. It also served as the home of the Maine Windjammers of the Continental Basketball Association, and the University of Maine men's and women's basketball teams for a few seasons until 1992. The V-shape style of the building gave it the look of giant wings and adds to the atmosphere. A statue of Paul Bunyan towered outside as a symbol of the city's prosperous history as a lumber port in the early-to-mid-19th century.\n\nThe auditorium and civic center shared its campus with Bass Park, home of the Bangor State Fair as well as Bangor Raceway, one of the oldest harness racing facilities in New England. Bangor Auditorium has hosted many major musical acts and has been a stop for World Wrestling Entertainment house shows for many years.\n\nOver the course of a few years, the city discussed significantly renovating or replacing the aging auditorium with a state-of-the-art venue. Poor ventilation and HVAC systems as well as substandard handicap accessibility have been cited as primary reasons for this.\n\nOn August 22, 2009, the city consulted with Sink Combs Dethlefs Architects and others to discuss the construction of a $51 million, 5,000 seat arena adjacent to the existing structure. The proposal suggested using the new facility as the centerpiece of the complex, while renovating the existing auditorium and the Bangor Civic Center for smaller events at an additional cost of $18 million.\n\nAfter a May 2011 public referendum in which Bangor voters supported building new facilities by a margin of 3 to 1, the plan now moved forward to build an entirely new set of primary buildings at Bass Park to replace the existing Bangor Auditorium and Civic Center with new structures, while leaving the old buildings open almost until the new buildings opened in 2013. The current plan does not rehabilitate the old structures but removes them totally in 2013. The proposed cost of the new buildings is $65 million.\n\nDemolition began at the Bangor Auditorium and Civic Center on June 03, 2013, with the new arena completed.\n\nThe new arena, officially the Cross Insurance Center, has varying maximum seating depending on the configuration that is used. For events that use the main floor for performance there are 5,800 fixed seats. For events using an end stage of 60 feet by 40 feet the new arena will seat as many as 8,050 persons. The new facility is managed by Global Spectrum, a division of Comcast. \n\n"}
{"id": "2300616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300616", "title": "Conservative liberalism", "text": "Conservative liberalism\n\nConservative liberalism is a variant of liberalism, combining liberal values and policies with conservative stances, or simply representing the right wing of the liberal movement. It is a more positive and less radical variant of classical liberalism.\n\nConservative liberal parties tend to combine liberal policies with more traditional stances on social and ethical issues.\n\nNeoconservatism has also been identified as an ideological relative or twin to conservative liberalism, and some similarities exist also between conservative liberalism and national liberalism.\n\nAccording to Robert Kraynak, a professor at Colgate University, rather than \"following progressive liberalism (i.e. social liberalism), conservative liberals draw upon pre-modern sources, such as classical philosophy (with its ideas of virtue, the common good, and natural rights), Christianity (with its ideas of natural law, the social nature of man, and original sin), and ancient institutions (such as common law, corporate bodies, and social hierarchies). This gives their liberalism a conservative foundation. It means following Plato, Aristotle, St. Augustine, St. Thomas Aquinas, and Edmund Burke rather than Locke or Kant; it usually includes a deep sympathy for the politics of the Greek \"polis\", the Roman Republic, and Christian monarchies. But, as realists, conservative liberals acknowledge that classical and medieval politics cannot be restored in the modern world. And, as moralists, they see that the modern experiment in liberty and self-government has the positive effect of enhancing human dignity as well as providing an opening (even in the midst of mass culture) for transcendent longings for eternity. At its practical best, conservative liberalism promotes ordered liberty under God and establishes constitutional safeguards against tyranny. It shows that a regime of liberty based on traditional morality and classical-Christian culture is an achievement we can be proud of, rather than merely defensive about, as trustees of Western civilization\".\n\nIn the European context, conservative liberalism should not be confused with liberal conservatism which is a variant of conservatism combining conservative views with liberal policies in regards to the economy, social and ethical issues. The roots of conservative liberalism are to be found at the beginning of the history of liberalism. Until the two world wars, the political class in most European countries from Germany to Italy was formed by conservative liberals. The events such as World War I occurring after 1917 brought the more radical version of classical liberalism to a more conservative (i.e. more moderate) type of liberalism. Conservative liberal parties have tended to develop in those European countries where there was no strong secular conservative party and where the separation of church and state was less of an issue. In those countries, where the conservative parties were Christian democratic, this conservative brand of liberalism developed.\n\nIn the United States, neoconservatives might be classified as conservative liberals, according to Peter Lawler, a professor at Berry College, who argued: \"[I]n America today, responsible liberals—who are usually called neoconservatives—see that liberalism depends on human beings who are somewhat child-centered, patriotic, and religious. These responsible liberals praise these non-individualistic human propensities in an effort to shore up liberalism. One of their slogans is 'conservative sociology with liberal politics.' The neoconservatives recognize that the politics of free and rational individuals depends upon a pre-political social world that is far from free and rational as a whole\". In the American context, conservative liberalism as well as liberal conservatism should not be confused with libertarian conservatism, influenced by right-libertarianism.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300617", "title": "Demonopolization", "text": "Demonopolization\n\nDemonopolization means to break up an existing monopoly. It is often used in the context of breaking up a government-run monopoly.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300621", "title": "Bobby Byrd", "text": "Bobby Byrd\n\nBobby Howard Byrd (August 15, 1934 – September 12, 2007) was an American R&B/soul singer, songwriter, bandleader, talent scout, record producer, and musician, who played an integral and important part in the development of soul and funk music in association with James Brown. Byrd began his career in 1952 as member of the gospel group the Gospel Starlighters, who later changed their name to the Avons in 1953 and the Five Royals in 1954, before settling with the name the Flames in 1955 prior to Brown's joining the group; their agent later changed it to The Famous Flames. Byrd was the actual founder of The Flames and is credited with the discovery of James Brown. He also claims responsibility for writing most of James Brown's hits. As group founder, and one of the longest-serving members of the group, Byrd was inducted into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame posthumously in 2012. Byrd was also a 1998 recipient of the Rhythm and Blues Foundation's Pioneer Award. Byrd helped to inspire the musical aspirations of James Brown, who launched his career with Byrd.\n\nByrd was born in Toccoa, Georgia, to a religiously devout family, where they were respected members of the church congregation and active in their neighborhood there. Byrd started being active in his local church choir with the group, the Zioneers, later making a name for himself as member of the Gospel Starlighters, which included his sister Sarah. At a time when church elders disapproved of secular singing, the band members would leave their home state and perform in South Carolina as the R&B group the Avons, eventually they left gospel behind and went on as the Avons. The original group consisted of Byrd, who played piano, organ and sang lead vocals; and Nafloyd Scott, Fred Pulliam and Doyle Oglesby.\n\nIn 1952 Bobby Byrd formed and sang with a gospel group called the Gospel Starlighters. During a friendly baseball match at a juvenile prison, he met a young James Brown who was serving time there on robbery charges. Byrd befriended him and arranged for Byrd's family to oversee Brown's parole. This began a personal and professional association that lasted until 1973.\n\nAlthough Byrd would eventually have over twenty years as a solo performer, it is his association with James Brown for which he is chiefly remembered. Contrary to belief, the group had already changed its name to the Flames when Brown asked Byrd for a spot in the group, with Brown first settling as a drummer. Eventually Brown was driven to perform as lead singer, as he felt lead vocalists got more attention from women. Byrd recognized early that Brown was unique and that it would be impossible to control him: \"I didn't need him in competition, I needed him with me, that's why I worked so hard to get him over to my group.\" In 1956, Clint Brantley signed on as the group's manager. With Johnny Terry and Nash Knox on board, the group became \"The Famous Flames\" and won a deal with Ralph Bass' Federal label, which was a subsidiary of Syd Nathan's King Records, in February 1956. Their first record, \"Please, Please, Please\", which Byrd said he wrote with Johnny Terry, featured a lead vocal by James Brown and was issued with the billing, \"James Brown and the Famous Flames\", which did not go well with the rest of the group. After three sessions, the original Flames broke up.\n\nThe Flames without Brown changed their name to Byrd's Drops of Joy. However, they found little success; when Brown approached them to reform the Flames they agreed. At this point, The Famous Flames ceased being a vocal/instrumental group, and became a straight vocal group, since Brown had begun to employ the old J.C. Davis outfit as his road band. Original Flames members Bobby Byrd and Johnny Terry returned, and new Flames members Bobby Bennett and Baby Lloyd Stallworth were added. Along with Brown, these four men comprised the longest-lasting lineup of The Famous Flames. Original Flames guitarist Nafloyd Scott also returned and was added to the band. The rest of the original Flames faded into obscurity.\n\nWith this lineup the group would have a series of hits between 1959 and 1964 and participated on many of the albums that helped to bring R&B to a crossover audience, including the landmark million-selling 1963 live album, \"Live at the Apollo\". Byrd and the Famous Flames also performed together on a few episodes of \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", made a brief appearance in the film, \"Ski Party\" and upstaged headliners The Rolling Stones on the landmark 1964 rock concert/motion picture, \"The T.A.M.I. Show\". Byrd (and fellow Famous Flame Lloyd Stallworth) were credited as songwriters on the Flames hit, \"Lost Someone,\" though Brown was the only member who sang on the recording. Its success led Brown to record more songs on his own but the majority of his early hits were as a member of the Famous Flames including songs such as \"Try Me\", \"I'll Go Crazy\", \"Bewildered\", \"Think\", \"Baby You're Right\", \"I Don't Mind\", \"This Old Heart\", \"Shout and Shimmy\", and \"Oh Baby Don't You Weep\". As was the case with some recordings, the Famous Flames were often not credited on album covers though ironically enough on recordings in which Brown appeared by himself, the group was credited, leaving fans to erroneously believe the Famous Flames were actually Brown's backing band, instead of the singing group that they actually were. The group continued performing together until 1968 when they left over monetary issues. The last Flames-associated recording to be released was the pre-funk soul hit, \"Licking Stick - Licking Stick\", to which Byrd contributed vocals without the other members, who had departed before Byrd did that summer.\n\nAfter two years away, Byrd reunited with Brown in 1970. He hired, on the spot and without rehearsal, Bootsy Collins, Bootsy's brother Catfish, and their band to fill in for Brown's former band after they left him before a gig. After that performance, Byrd and Brown brought the band to a studio session where they recorded the famous funk hit, \"Get Up (I Feel Like Being a) Sex Machine\".\n\nWhen The Famous Flames were still together, Byrd and Brown co-formed the production company, Fair Deal, to distribute The Famous Flames' recordings – and Brown's own solo recordings – to mainstream markets after years solely on the rhythm and blues circuit. This led to both Byrd and Brown's signing solo deals with Smash Records. In 1964, Byrd recorded his first solo hit, \"Baby, Baby, Baby\" with Anna King. A year later he had a bigger R&B hit with \"We Are in Love\", which reached #14. Later in the late 1960s, as Byrd and Brown together began working under the yet-to-be-named genre of funk, Byrd had a funky song \"I Need Help (I Can't Do It Alone)\"(1970).\n\nIn 1971, when Brown signed with Polydor Records, he and Byrd formed the label People Records, and issued several records by other artists, including Byrd himself, who recorded the funk hit, \"I Know You Got Soul\"(1971). Byrd appeared onstage with Brown from 1970 until leaving his band again in 1973 due to a combination of issues, including uncredited compositions on some Brown hits, Brown's issues with singer Vicki Anderson, whom Byrd eventually married and remained with until his death, and wanting to start a family with Anderson. Though he remained in contact with Brown following this final split, this departure ended Byrd's 21-year professional association with Brown, who now went by the nickname \"Godfather of Soul\", after composing the soundtrack to the film, \"Black Caesar\" (1973). Without Byrd's help, however, Brown began struggling with production of the music on People and soon began experiencing financial troubles. Byrd recorded funky song \"Back From The Dead\" in 1975.\n\nLate 1980s, rare groove boom and James Brown boom were coming. In 1993, Byrd recorded a solo album, \"On the Move\", on the German record Label, Soulciety Records. After a few more live performances, Byrd decided to retire in 1996, though he occasionally re-emerged sometimes with the assistance of Brown: following Brown's parole from drug and weapons charges in 1991, he hired Byrd to join him on stage for his pay-per-view 1992 concert. Byrd would occasionally perform with Brown in some venues. They would also collaborate on the song \"Killing Is Out, School Is In\" from Brown's final studio album, 2002's \"The Next Step\". At his funeral in December 2006, Byrd sung \"Sex Machine\" with Brown's other band mates paying homage to his late estranged friend and former performing partner.\n\nIn 2003, a few years before his death, Bobby, his wife Vicki, and Famous Flames Bobby Bennett and Lloyd Stallworth, sued lead singer James Brown and Universal Music for non-payment of royalties, stating that monies that rightfully belong to them for numerous Famous Flames hits, and Byrd's hit \"I Know You Got Soul\", which was sampled by numerous rappers, including Eric B. & Rakim, were sent by Universal to James Brown instead, who allegedly kept them. The suit was dismissed due to the statute of limitations having run out. However, rapper Jay-Z, who sampled Byrd's song \"I'm Not to Blame\" for his recording, \"U Don't Know\", on his 2001 multi million-selling \"The Blueprint\", paid Byrd 65% of the royalties for the song, allowing Byrd and his family to secure a mortgage for their home, which was worth about $250,000.\n\nAfter splitting from Brown in 1973, Byrd and Vicki Anderson, who left Brown's band at the same time as Byrd, got married. Byrd had three children with his first wife Gail, in Toccoa, Georgia; two sons, Walda and Orrin Byrd, and one daughter, Ruthie Byrd. Lolita Freeman, and Dhevin Shellshear, were from another relationship. Byrd raised Anderson's daughter Carleen, sons Bartlett Anderson, James Byrd and Anthony Byrd, and shared a daughter, Keisha Byrd. The couple remained married throughout Byrd's lifetime. Though he had moved to Cincinnati after the Famous Flames signed with Federal/King, Byrd retained residences in Georgia and after leaving Brown, settled at Loganville for the remainder of his life.\n\nBobby Byrd died on September 12, 2007, of cancer; he was 73 years old.\n\nNumerous songs in hip hop music have sampled Byrd-associated songs such as \"I Know You Got Soul\", \"Think (About It)\", \"Get Up (I Feel Like Being a) Sex Machine\", \"Soul Power\", \"Make It Funky\" and \"I'm Not to Blame\". Byrd's music has had a lasting influence on numerous soul, R&B, and hip hop artists.\n\nFor years following his departure from Brown, musical critics have neglected to mention about Byrd's contribution to James Brown's career, including Brown's solo credit for \"Please, Please, Please\" in 1956. It was,actually, not a solo recording,but a recording by The Famous Flames. It was,in fact Bobby Byrd and The Famous Flames who launched Brown's career, not the other way around. Indeed, the majority of Brown's early recordings between 1956 and 1962 were not Brown solo recordings, but as a member of the Famous Flames, which made his 1986 solo induction to the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame controversial, as his first official solo recording was the cover of the instrumental R&B standard, \"Night Train\". Though the late 1961 recording, \"Lost Someone\", was sung by Brown alone, the song was credited as a Famous Flames recording and featured Bobby Byrd and fellow Flames member Lloyd Stallworth as co-writers, and Byrd also played organ on the recording.\nThe Famous Flames were a vocal group. Brown's backing band was a separate group known as the James Brown Orchestra (later known as The J.B.s).\n\nThe early songs, most of which Byrd participated with the exception of \"Try Me\", featured Byrd and contributed to establishing Brown's career before he finally became a full-fledged solo artist with the release of \"Papa's Got a Brand New Bag\" in 1965. Though Brown asserted himself as the full-fledged leader, he was still just a member of the Flames until that group left him in 1968. In addition, it was Byrd who later saved Brown's career numerous times, starting with him returning to the Famous Flames at Brown's request after the group's initial breakup in 1957, helping him to coach the re-formed group, re-joining them at that point, and later hiring Bootsy and Phelps Collins to back Brown up in 1970 for funky song \"Sex Machine\". In the Famous Flames' Rock & Roll Hall of Fame page, Byrd is regarded as \"one of the more important auxiliary figures in the career of a major artist in music history.\"\n\nIn October 2004, Byrd's songs \"I Know You Got Soul\" and \"Hot Pants\" were featured on the \"\" , playing on fictional radio station Master Sounds 98.3. In September 2005 his song \"Try It Again\" appeared on the soundtrack of \"Indigo Prophecy.'\n\nByrd was portrayed by actor Nelsan Ellis in the 2014 James Brown bio film \"Get on Up\".\n\nIn 1986 Rock & Roll Hall of Fame officials announced that James Brown would be included in a list of the first nine musicians to be inducted by the organization. Due to his contributions to the industry and his influence on the R&B, Soul, and Funk Music genres, it was only fitting that Brown would be part of this initial group. However, James Brown did not meet the Hall of Fame's criteria for induction at that time which required an artist to have released their first single as a solo artist at least 25 years prior to induction. Brown's first solo release in 1965 was only 21 years before, although Brown had been active in the industry and released songs as part of The Famous Flames prior to 1965. For Brown to be inducted by the organization in 1986, inclusion of the \"other\" members of The Famous Flames was required. It is not known why this oversight occurred, but it has been surmised that the organization felt Brown's solo work warranted his induction at the Hall of Fame's initial ceremonies.\n\nBrown's inclusion as a solo artist without the other Flames members was met with criticism but was not amended until recently. In late 2011, the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame formed a special committee to discuss several pioneering groups they felt deserved to be inducted, but were initially excluded in error, due to the impact of their lead singers, who were incorrectly inducted as solo artists. This committee's decision led to the induction of The Famous Flames and its members. This was an amending gesture which did not require nomination or voting, under the premise that they should have been inducted with Brown back in 1986, since, according to Rock Hall CEO Terry Stewart, Brown's first solo recording missed the 25-year criterion for performing musicians. Byrd, Stallworth (c. 2001), and Terry had long been deceased by this point, and Bobby Bennett, the Flames' only surviving member, accepted the honor on behalf of the group in Cleveland, on April 14, 2012. Less than one year after the induction, Bennett himself died on January 18, 2013.\n\nIn 2015, Bobby Byrd was nominated for a second induction into the Rock & Roll Hall of Fame as a member of The J.B.'s, a group which he actually discovered in 1970 to replace the Original James Brown Band, who left Brown in 1970 (as the Famous Flames left him in 1968) due to salary disputes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300622", "title": "Pierre Joseph Pelletier", "text": "Pierre Joseph Pelletier\n\n"}
{"id": "2300625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300625", "title": "Pelham bit", "text": "Pelham bit\n\nA pelham bit is a type of bit used when riding a horse. It has elements of both a curb bit and a snaffle bit. In this respect a pelham bit functions similar to a double bridle, and like a double bridle it normally has \"double\" reins: a set of curb reins and a set of snaffle reins. Because it has a bit shank and can exert curb-style pressure on the horse, it is considered a curb bit. Like all curb bits, a pelham bit has a mouthpiece, shanks with both purchase and lever arms, a ring for rein attachment at the bottom of the shank, and a curb chain. But like a snaffle bit, a pelham bit also has a bit ring on either side of the mouthpiece. Like some curb bits, a pelham bit usually has \"loose\" shanks - hinged at the mouthpiece in the same way that the rings of a snaffle bit are hinged. When two sets of reins are used, the snaffle rein generally is wider, to help distinguish it from the curb. A \"cowboy pelham\" is a western style of loose-jawed curb bit with additional rings at the mouthpiece allowing a second set of reins to be added.\n\nA pelham works on several parts of a horse's head, depending on which rein is applied. The mouthpiece acts when either the snaffle or curb rein is applied and puts pressure on the bars, tongue, and lips of the horse. The curb chain and design of the mouthpiece can alter the degree of pressure placed on the horse's mouth. The roof of the mouth is affected if the bit mouthpiece of the pelham has a high port or if it is jointed. Pressure on the poll occurs when the curb rein is engaged, and pressure is directly related to the length of the upper shank (purchase arm) in relation to the lower shank (lever arm). All pelhams apply some pressure on the poll. Pressure is applied to the chin groove by the curb chain when the curb rein is used. Direct rein pressure from the snaffle rein may put some pressure on the sides of the horse's mouth, depending on the specific bit design.\n\nA pelham is a \"leverage bit\", meaning that it increases the force but reduces the extent of movement applied by the rider. Unlike a snaffle bit, the curb rein can amplify the rein pressure several times over, depending on the geometry and length of the shank. Shank lengths are (\"Tom Thumb\") and longer, although most are less than .\n\nThe relation of the purchase arm—the length from the mouthpiece to the cheekpiece rings—and the \"shank\" or lever arm—the length from the mouthpiece to the lowest rein ring, is important in the severity of the bit. A long lower shank in relation to the upper shank increases the leverage, and thus the pressure, on the curb groove and the bars of the mouth. A long upper shank in relation to the lower shank increases the pressure on the poll, but does not apply as much pressure on the bars of the mouth.\n\nHowever, longer-shanked bits must rotate back further before applying pressure on the horse's mouth than shorter-shanked bits. Therefore, the horse has more warning in a long-shanked bit, allowing it to respond before any significant pressure is applied to its mouth, than it would in a shorter-shanked bit. In this way, a longer shank can allow better communication between horse and rider, without increasing severity. This is also directly dependent on the tightness of the curb chain.\n\nIf the bit has a 1.5\" cheek and a 4.5\" lower shank, thus producing a 1:3 ratio of cheek to lower shank, while the ratio of the cheek to (upper + lower) shank is 1:4, and producing 4 pounds-force of pressure on the horse's mouth for every 1 pound-force (4 newtons per newton) placed on the reins. If the bit had 2\" cheeks and 8\" shank (ratio of 1:4), the bit will produce of tension for every one applied by the reins (5 N/N). Regardless of the ratio, the longer the shank, the less force is needed on the reins to provide a given amount of pressure on the mouth. So, if one were to apply of pressure on the horse's mouth, a 2\" shank would need much more rein pressure than an 8\" shank to provide the same effect. \n\nAs with many other bits, a pelham may have a solid or a jointed mouthpiece. If solid, it may range from a nearly straight \"Mullen\" mouthpiece up to a medium port. The pelham's mouthpiece controls the pressure on the tongue, roof of the mouth, and bars. A mullen mouth places even pressure on the bars and tongue. A port places more pressure on the bars, and provide room for the tongue. A high port may act on the roof of the mouth as it touches, and will act as a fulcrum, amplifying the pressure on the bars of the mouth.\n\nJointed mouthpieces increase the pressure on the bars as the mouthpiece breaks over in a \"nutcracker\" effect. Unlike a jointed mouthpiece on a snaffle bit, a jointed mouthpiece on a bit with shanks, such as the pelham, can be quite severe in its effect, particularly if the pressure from the shanks causes the joint of the bit to roll forward and press the tip of the joint into the tongue.\n\nThe mouthpiece is placed lower down in a horse's mouth than snaffle bits, usually just touching the corners of the mouth without creating a wrinkle. The lower the bit is placed, the more severe it is as the bars of the mouth get thinner and so pressure is more concentrated.\n\nThe curb chain applies pressure to the groove under a horse's chin. It amplifies the pressure on the bars of the horse's mouth, because when it tightens it acts as a fulcrum.\n\nAdjusted correctly, the chain links lie flat and hang loose below the chin groove, coming into action against the jaw only when the shanks have rotated due to rein pressure. The point at which the curb chain engages varies with the individual needs of the horse, but contact at 45 degrees of shank rotation is a common default adjustment.\n\nThe pelham bit has several uses. In the English riding disciplines, it is used in place of a double bridle, when it is desirable to have double reins but not two bits. The pelham bit is also used for polo, when the action of a double bridle is desired, but the rider's ability to make rein adjustments is limited. In training, a pelham bit sometimes is used in both English and western disciplines to transition a horse from a snaffle bit to a curb bit or double bridle. \n\nSometimes, a bit converter, also known as a pelham rounding, is used so a pelham can be used with one pair of reins. This is most often seen with beginners and for riders in the cross-country phase of eventing. However, use of a converter is illegal in most other horse show classes. \n\nIn horse shows, a pelham bit may be used in some disciplines but is prohibited in others. In the United States, use of a pelham bit is prevalent in hunt seat equitation, and occasionally in show jumping and eventing. Use of this bit is legal, but not common, in show hunter, and English pleasure. In the United Kingdom, this bit is often used in place of a double bridle in show hunter, show hack, riding horse, show cob and mountain and moorland classes, but it is forbidden in equitation and novice classes. The pelham is not permitted in dressage at any level. The pelham is never legal for use in any western riding discipline, where either a snaffle bit or a curb bit is used.\n\nVariations of the pelham bit are often seen in driving in situations where a bit more control is required that can be obtained with a snaffle alone or with a combination of snaffle and overcheck. Shank designs and size are governed by the rules for various forms of competition and very considerably across disciplines from combined driving to draft horse showing.\n\nIn polo, a pelham bit is one of the two bits most commonly used (the other being a gag bit). Double reins are held in one hand. Neck reining is used almost exclusively, and riders have little or no need to adjust the reins while riding. Draw reins are commonly used, on the snaffle ring. The rein lengths are adjusted so that the rein used normally is the snaffle rein, with the curb rein only coming into effect when needed. Such techniques are not legal in show disciplines and are exclusive to polo.\n\nThe angle cheek pelham was formerly used in the Australian Light Horse and other cavalry units as it was designed to suit as many horses' mouths as possible. The Australian design had one side of the mouthpiece smooth and the other serrated. Various rein attachments were also possible with this bit.\n"}
{"id": "2300627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300627", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: D", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: D\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter D.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300630", "title": "Dignity and Shame", "text": "Dignity and Shame\n\nDignity and Shame is the fourth album recorded by the indie rock band Crooked Fingers. This album was chosen as one of Amazon.com's Top 100 Editor's Picks of 2005. It has been billed as a concept album based on the lives of bullfighter Manolete and Spanish actress Lupe Sino. Lara Meyerratken is featured on lead vocals on four songs.\n\nAmerican indie-rock band, The National covered \"Sleep All Summer\" with St. Vincent for the album \"SCORE! 20 Years of Merge Records\". Singer Eric Bachmann collaborated with singer/songwriter Neko Case on a cover of \"Sleep All Summer\" for her album \"Hell-On\".\n\n\nThe vinyl version of the album includes two bonus tracks:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300634", "title": "Newport (Isle of Wight) (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Newport (Isle of Wight) (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNewport was a parliamentary borough located in Newport (Isle of Wight), which was abolished in for the 1885 general election. It was occasionally referred to by the alternative name of Medina.\n\nThe borough was first represented in the parliament of 1295, and returned two members of parliament (MPs) from 1584 to 1868. At the 1868 election the Second Reform Act reduced its representation to a single seat, and under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 the constituency was abolished altogether with effect from the 1885 general election. Newport's re-enfranchisement in 1584, like that of the other Isle of Wight boroughs (Newtown and Yarmouth) seems to have been at the urging of the new Governor of the island, Sir George Carey, a relative of the Queen. In token of thanks, the borough granted him for life the right to nominate one of the two MPs – which seems to have been the reward he expected and the motive for his petition to the Queen in the first place.\n\nBetween 1807 and 1811 its two seats were held by two future Prime Ministers: Arthur Wellesley, later to become the Duke of Wellington (who also found himself elected to two other seats at the same time), and Henry Temple (later Lord Palmerston), who would go on to become one of the United Kingdom's most notable Prime Ministers. Palmerston's late father had been unable to convert his Irish title into a United Kingdom peerage, therefore the young politician was able to enter the Commons. The local patron arranging the deal was Sir Leonard Holmes, who made it a condition that they never visited the borough!\n\nThe borough was also represented by two other future Prime Ministers in the 1820s. George Canning was MP for Newport when appointed Prime Minister in 1827; however, under the law as it then stood a minister accepting office automatically vacated his seat and had to stand for re-election to the Commons, and Canning chose to stand at Seaford, a government pocket borough in Sussex, rather than fight Newport again. In the by-election that followed at Newport, the vacancy was filled by the election of the Honourable William Lamb, later 2nd Viscount Melbourne, whose father had also represented the borough in the 1790s. However, Lamb remained MP for Newport for only two weeks before also being elected for Bletchingley, which he preferred to represent.\n\nBefore the Great Reform Act of 1832, the right to vote was vested in the Mayor and Corporation (consisting of 11 aldermen and 12 burgesses). For much of the previous century the borough was \"managed\" for the government by the Holmes family, meaning that ministers could generally secure the election of their favoured candidates, but often only at the expense of considerable \"gratuities\" to the voters – in 1754, this apparently amounted to a payment of £600 for each candidate. The borough consisted of the parish of Newport and of Castle Hold in the parish of St Nicholas, thereby excluding that part of the town which extended over the boundary into Carisbrooke parish; this gave the borough a population of 4,398 in 1831. The 1832 reforms extended the borough to take in the rest of the town, raising the population to 6,700, though the electorate was still only 421.\n\nNewport's representation was reduced from two members to one by the second Reform Act for the 1868 general election, and abolished altogether in 1885, leaving the town represented as part of the Isle of Wight county constituency.\n\n \n\nOrd was appointed as a Lord Commissioner of the Treasury, requiring a by-election.\n\n \n\n \n\nBiggs resigned, causing a by-election.\n\n\"Seat reduced to one member\"\n\nMartin's death caused a by-election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300636", "title": "Beatrice Foods", "text": "Beatrice Foods\n\nBeatrice Foods Company was a major American food processing company. In 1987, its international food operations were sold to Reginald Lewis, a corporate attorney, creating TLC Beatrice International, after which the majority of its domestic (U.S.) brands and assets were acquired by Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts (KKR), with the bulk of its holdings sold off. By 1990, the remaining operations were ultimately acquired by Conagra Brands.\n\nThe Beatrice Creamery Company was founded in 1894 by George Everett Haskell and William W. Bosworth, by leasing the factory of a bankrupt firm of the same name located in Beatrice, Nebraska. At the time, they purchased butter, milk, and eggs from local farmers and graded them for resale. They promptly began separating the butter themselves at their plant, making their own butter on site and packaging and distributing it under their own label. They devised special protective packages and distributed them to grocery stores and restaurants in their own wagons and through jobbers. To overcome the shortage of cream, the partners established skimming stations to which farmers delivered their milk to have the cream, used to make butter, separated from the milk. This led to the introduction of their unique credit program of providing farmers with cream separators so they could separate the milk on the farm and retain the skim milk for animal food. This enabled farmers to pay for the separators from the proceeds of their sales of cream. The program worked so well, the company sold more than 50,000 separators in Nebraska from 1895 to 1905. On March 1, 1905, the company was incorporated as the Beatrice Creamery Company of Iowa, with capital of $3,000,000. By the early 20th century, they were shipping dairy products across the United States, and by 1910 they operated nine creameries and three ice cream plants across the Great Plains.\n\nThe company moved to Chicago in 1913, the center of the American food processing industry. By the 1930s, it was a major dairy company, producing some of milk and of ice cream annually. In 1939, Beatrice Creamery Company purchased Blue Valley Creamery Company, the other Chicago-based dairy centralizer. This acquisition added at least 11 creameries from New York to South Dakota. Beatrice's 'Meadow Gold' brand was a household name in much of America by the beginning of World War II. In 1946, it changed its name to Beatrice Foods Co. and doubled its sales between 1945 and 1955 as the post-war baby boom created greater demand for milk products.\n\nFrom the late 1950s until the early 1970s, the company expanded into Canada and purchased a number of other food firms, leveraging its distribution network to profit from a more diverse array of food and consumer products. It came to be the owner of brands such as Avis Rent A Car, Playtex, Shedd's, Tropicana, John Sexton & Co, Good & Plenty, and many others. Annual sales in 1984 were roughly $12 billion. During both the Winter and Summer Olympics that year, the corporation flooded the TV airwaves with advertisements letting the public know that many brands with which they were familiar were actually part of Beatrice Foods. These ads used the tagline (with a jingle) \"We're Beatrice. You've known us all along.\" After the Olympics, advertisements for its products continued to end with the catchphrase \"We're Beatrice\" and an instrumental version of the \"You've known us all along\" portion of the jingle, as the red and white \"Beatrice\" logo would simultaneously appear in the bottom right hand corner. The campaign was found to alienate consumers, calling attention to the fact that many of their favorite brands were part of a far-reaching multinational corporation, and the campaign was pulled off the air by autumn.\n\nBeatrice's Canadian subsidiary, Beatrice Foods Canada Ltd., was founded in 1969 and became legally separate from its parent firm in 1978.\n\nIn 1968, Sexton Foods was approached by Beatrice with an offer to purchase the John Sexton & Co. Beatrice was attracted to Sexton Quality Foods' distribution network, quality, variety of private-label products, specialized food offerings, sales force and profitability. Mack Sexton's initial response was no, but Beatrice Foods was very interested. Eventually both parties reached an agreement. Beatrice Foods increased the purchase price, pledged capital to expand Sexton Quality Foods' distribution network, pledged capital to introduce a new Sexton frozen product line, and pledged that the Sexton leadership would continue to lead and operate the company as a separate entity. On December 20, 1968, Beatrice acquired the business and assets of John Sexton & Co., exchanging about 375,000 shares of Beatrice's preferred convertible preference stock valued at $37,500,000. John Sexton & Co. became an independent division of Beatrice Foods, still led by Mack Sexton (son of Franklin), William Egan (son of Helen), and William Sexton (son of Sherman). Mack became a vice president of Beatrice and a Beatrice board member. John Sexton & Co. put Beatrice Foods into the wholesale grocery business and Beatrice put John Sexton & Co. into the frozen foods business. Beatrice's and the Sexton's leadership were interested in maximizing the investment in John Sexton & Co. by growing the company.\n\nThrough the 1980s, Beatrice was a co-defendant alongside W. R. Grace and Company in a lawsuit alleging that the Riley Tannery, a division of Beatrice Foods, had dumped toxic waste which contaminated an underground aquifer that supplied drinking water to East Woburn, Massachusetts. The case became the subject of the popular book and film \"A Civil Action\". Federal judge Walter Jay Skinner ruled that Beatrice was not responsible for the contamination, although according to the book and film, based on new evidence brought forward by the EPA later found, Judge Skinner reversed his verdict and found both companies responsible.\n\nIn the 1980s, the firm operated in South Africa during apartheid. As a private company, the campaign of divestment could not lower its stock price and thus had no impact on its business activities.\n\nAt the 87th annual meeting of Beatrice stockholders on June 5, 1984, stockholders of record were asked to change the name of the company. \"Recognizing this clear departure from the past, we are proposing a new name for the company. At our annual meeting in June, stockholders will be asked to change the name to Beatrice Companies, Inc. from Beatrice Foods Co. This change is appropriate given the company's evolution and present composition. It reflects Beatrice's wide range of separate and distinct businesses, many with operations totally unrelated to food processing, yet retains the company's goodwill and reputation for quality products and services.\" Annual Report, February 29, 1984.\n\nIn June 1984, Beatrice acquired Esmark. The Esmark acquisition was part of the company's strategy to focus Beatrice's assets in food and consumer products businesses. In addition to several food brands, companies owned by Esmark included Avis Rent a Car, Playtex, Jensen Electronics, and STP. Because of Esmark's national brands, direct sales force, distribution network and research and development capabilities, its acquisition was expected to accelerate the attainment of Beatrice's marketing goals. The company also sought a higher public profile, adding their name to the end of their brands' television commercials, and sponsoring the Newman-Haas IndyCar racing team with driver Mario Andretti. Many analysts believe the Esmark acquisition, which was pushed by then Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President James L. Dutt, put too much of a debt load on Beatrice, which hurt Beatrice's credit rating and therefore deflated the value of Beatrice stock valuation.\n\n1985, Beatrice sold their Beatrice Chemical division to Imperial Chemical Industries. Stahl Finish, Paule Chemical, Polyvinyl Chemical Industries, Converters Ink Company, and Thoro System Products were the business units that formed Beatrice Chemical.] Other divisions sold to pay off the debt from the Esmark purchase included Brillion Iron Works, World Dryer, STP, and Buckingham Wine (distributors of Cutty Sark whisky).\n\nIn 1986, Beatrice became the target of leveraged buyout specialists Kohlberg Kravis Roberts. They ultimately took over the firm for US$8.7 billion — at the time the largest leveraged buyout in history — and over the next four years sold it off, division by division.\n\nIn 1986, investment firm Wesray Capital Corporation, acquired Avis Rent a Car System for $263 million plus the assumption of debt.\n\nIn 1986, Beatrice's Coca-Cola bottling operations (acquired by Beatrice in 1981) were acquired by The Coca-Cola Company for $1 billion. They were shortly spun off as Coca-Cola Enterprises, Inc. Beatrice Bottled Water Division (acquired with the Coca-Cola operations) with brands such as Arrowhead Drinking Water, Ozarka Drinking Water, and Great Bear Drinking Water were also sold to Perrier in 1987.\n\nIn December 1986, a group of Company executives, together with Drexel Burnham Lambert bought International Playtex, Inc. in a leveraged buyout and named the newly private organization Playtex Holdings. Playtex included such former Esmark brands as Max Factor, Playtex Living Gloves, Playtex Products, Almay, Jhirmack, and Halston/Orlane.\n\nThe Beatrice Dairy Products, Inc., subsidiary, which included the brands of Meadow Gold, Hotel Bar Butter, Keller's Butter, Mountain High Yogurt, and Viva Milk Products, to Borden, Inc. in December 1986 for $315,000,000.\n\nOther divisions sold in 1986 included Americold and Danskin.\n\nBrands like Samsonite, Culligan, Stiffel Lamps, del mar window coverings, Louver Drape window coverings, Aristokraft kitchen cabinets, Day-Timer planner, Waterloo Industries tool boxes, Aunt Nellies and Martha White were merged into a new entity called E-II Holdings, which was later purchased by American Brands for 1.14 billion. E-II was created in June, 1987, as an umbrella company for several non-food and specialty food businesses of Beatrice. Meshulam Riklis bought E-II from American Brands in 1988; American Brands bought back Aristokraft, Day-Timer, Waterloo, Twentieth Century and Vogel Peterson.\n\nTropicana Products, Inc. was sold to Seagram for $1.2 billion in 1988.\n\nAll of the international operations were folded into a new entity called Beatrice International Holdings in 1987, which was later purchased that year through junk bond financing for $985 million by Reginald Lewis, a corporate attorney, creating TLC Beatrice International. TLC Beatrice International became the largest business in America run by an African American and the first company to reach a billion dollars in sales, with a black man at its head. TLC Beatrice sold the Canadian operations; Beatrice Foods Canada, Ltd., in 1990 to Onyx and then Beatrice Foods, Inc. later ended up in the hands of Parmalat in 1997.\n\nIn 1987, KKR had formed a new entity, with similar intent as E-II Holdings, called Beatrice Company, which was specifically created to include Beatrice Cheese, Inc., Beatrice-Hunt/Wesson, Inc., and Swift-Eckrich, Inc.. In 1990, KKR sold Beatrice Company to CAGSUB, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of ConAgra Foods (now Conagra Brands). Most of Beatrice's brand names still exist, but under various other owners, as trademarks and product lines were sold separately to the highest bidder.\n\nThe original Beatrice Companies, Inc. (Beatrice Foods Co. before 1984, and Beatrice Creamery Company before 1946) went dormant in the late 1980s, but was revived in 2007. The Beatrice of today goes by its 1984 name of Beatrice Companies, Inc., which was approved by the 1984 stockholder meeting.\n\nBeatrice Foods Canada Ltd. is a Toronto, Ontario-based dairy unit of Parmalat Canada. The Canadian unit of Beatrice Foods was founded in 1969, and was separated from Beatrice Foods in 1978.\n\nConsequently, Beatrice's Canadian unit was not affected by the buyout of its founders and remained in business as one of Canada's largest food processing concerns.\n\nIn 1997 Beatrice Foods Canada was acquired by Parmalat. At first, Parmalat decided to drop the Beatrice name from the company's products, but was reinstated in late 2005 during which the Italian parent company was being investigated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300639", "title": "Tweakers", "text": "Tweakers\n\nTweakers (formerly called Tweakers.net) is a Dutch technology website featuring news and information about hardware, software, games and the Internet. The name is derived from the verb \"tweaking\", which is a word geeks use to refer to optimisation of hardware.\n\nTweakers has grown substantially since its conception. Nowadays, it publishes news, reviews, features and video reports about technology subjects, with a strong focus on the Netherlands.\n\nTweakers has more features for the computer enthusiast, such as reviews, bi-monthly Best Buy guides, a classifieds section for jobs and used hardware, the Pricewatch and the Shop Survey, among others. While the majority of the reviews are written in Dutch, several articles covering non-standard topics are translated into English.\n\nTweakers currently has more than 500,000 members and its forum has over 29 million posts. It has won several awards, including \"(Dutch) website of the year\" in 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013 and 2014.\n\nThe website was founded in 1998 by Femme Taken, a computer enthusiast, under the name \"World of Tweaking\" as a student's hobby project to offer a Dutch alternative to hardware review sites like Tom's Hardware Guide.\n\nAs of March 2006, Tweakers has been taken over by the Dutch media conglomerate VNU, now known as The Nielsen Company. However, VNU Media has become owner of the website after The Nielsen Company had sold its Business Media division to private equity firm 3i.\n\nIn October 2012, Tweakers launched a new design, designed by Femme Taken, the founder. However, the new design met with criticism from their community. A couple of days later, Tweakers launched a new feature which enabled the community to change the appearance of the website.\n\nThe current responsive design was introduced on 6 January 2014. The Android and iOS apps were removed from their respective stores on 7 October 2014.\n\nIn February 2014 Tweakers significantly improved the price comparison tool for sim only contracts.\n\nIn June 2014 Tweakers added prices of Belgian webshops to the \"Pricewatch\", which now shows prices from Dutch and Belgian webshops.\n\nIn April 2015 Tweakers launched a completely new logo to be uniformly used throughout the website.\n\nAn important area of the site is the forum. Tweakers's forum is known as the Gathering of Tweakers (often abbreviated as \"GoT\"). The forum is mainly focused on technical subjects and tries to maintain a relatively high standard of posting. It has a fairly strong moderation policy, especially when compared to other online discussion forums. Users of the forum are strongly urged to read the FAQ and to have invested a fair amount of his/her own time into finding an answer, either on GoT using the search tools, or anywhere else on the Internet, before asking a question.\n\nTweakers Awards (formerly known as \"Tweakers Gouden Steeksleutel Awards\" 2007 to 2011) is a contest in which members can choose the best products from different technology categories.\n"}
{"id": "2300642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300642", "title": "Super Ape", "text": "Super Ape\n\nSuper Ape is a dub studio album produced and engineered by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, credited to his studio band The Upsetters.\n\nIn Jamaica, the album was released under the name Scratch the Super Ape in July 1976 on Perry's own Upsetter label. The Jamaican version had a different track order than the international version that was released in August the same year on Island Records.\n\nThe album was listed in the 1999 book \"The Rough Guide: Reggae: 100 Essential CDs\".\n\n\"Super Ape\" was reissued on November 29, 2013 as Record Store Day Black Friday double vinyl release with three extra tracks: \"Rastaman Shuffle\", \"Magic Touch\" and \"Corn Fish Dub\". Side 4 featured an etching of the \"Super Ape\" album cover art.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300645", "title": "Delta Force 2", "text": "Delta Force 2\n\nDelta Force 2 is a tactical first-person shooter video game developed by NovaLogic and released in 1999. It is the second game in the \"Delta Force\" series and was followed by \"\" one year later. The game was re-released in 2009 on Steam.\n\nThe player assumes the role of a Delta Force operative who takes part in missions across the globe. The action takes place in vast outdoor environments and combat distances reach up to several hundred meters. The game has an emphasis on realism, with human enemies and the player alike being very vulnerable to damage from weapons, and projectiles being subject to wind conditions.\n\nMissions consist of a series of objectives while navigation points indicate what to do, the player is free to approach the targets as he sees fit. Objectives typically involve eliminating all hostile presence in a specific location, rescuing hostages, or destroying enemy vehicles and facilities. Many missions feature allied Delta Force teams which follow commands predefined by the mission design, and who can also be issued orders by the player. The player can view the positions of nearby enemies and friendly units through the use of a minimap on their HUD.\n\nThe game continues to use NovaLogic's proprietary Voxel Space engine from its earlier games, including the original \"Delta Force\" and the Comanche series of helicopter combat simulators, known for its ability to render vast landscapes. This updated version of the engine is dubbed Voxel Space 32, as it is optimised for 32-bit graphics cards and does not support 16-bit cards anymore. All terrain is visualised by voxels while any characters, vehicles, structures or other details are polygonal. Unlike its predecessor, \"Delta Force 2\" supports hardware acceleration. A new feature in \"Delta Force 2\"s version of the engine are stretched voxels which allow to simulate high grass, capable of masking characters at any distance.\n\nThe game includes a mission editor which allows the user to place objects, enemies, and objectives in one of the game's existing landscapes.\n\n\"Delta Force 2\" received a \"Silver\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 100,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\nEric Bratcher reviewed the PC version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"Not quite as tense or pretty as \"Rainbow Six\", this is still a great game for Green Beret wanna-bes.\"\n\nThe game received \"average\" reviews according to video game review aggregator GameRankings. Computer Gaming World's Brett Todd gave \"Delta Force 2\" two out of five stars, criticising the game for \"abysmal graphics\", non-existent sound effects and a lack of background information on the missions. He also criticised the need to carefully scan the screen for small enemies in the distance as well as the game's poor performance, forcing the player to play on a small resolution even on high-end hardware and further worsening the trouble with spotting enemies. He praised the mission design and multiplayer mode for up to 50 players, however. GameSpot's Michael E. was more enthusiastic, awarding the game 8.2 points out of 10. He particularly praised the mission design, calling it \"generally excellent\" and noting that the missions are usually \"realistic and believable\", with some exceptions more inspired by action films. He also praised the game's multiplayer mode and the sound design.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300649", "title": "USS Henderson (AP-1)", "text": "USS Henderson (AP-1)\n\nThe first USS \"Henderson\" (AP-1) was a transport in the United States Navy during World War I and World War II. In 1943, she was converted to a hospital ship and commissioned as USS \"Bountiful\" (AH-9).\n\nNamed for Marine Colonel Archibald Henderson, she was launched by Philadelphia Navy Yard on 17 June 1916; sponsored by Miss Genevieve W. Taylor, great-granddaughter of General Henderson; and commissioned at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 24 May 1917, Lt. C. W. Steel in command.\n\n\"Henderson\" arrived New York on 12 June 1917 and sailed two days later with Rear Admiral Albert Gleaves' Cruiser and Transport Force, which carried units of the American Expeditionary Force to France. In her holds she had space for 1,500 men and 24 mules. Reaching Saint-Nazaire on 27 June she disembarked troops and returned to Philadelphia on 17 July 1917. Subsequently, \"Henderson\" made eight more voyages to France with troops and supplies for the allies in the bitter European fighting. She established two large base hospitals in France during 1917. In constant danger from submarines, the transport was steaming near Army transport on 17 October 1917 when the latter was torpedoed. \"Henderson\" escaped attack by wrapping herself in an envelope of smoke. But torpedoes were not her only danger.\n\nShe sailed for her seventh voyage on 30 June 1918 to France. A serious fire broke out in a cargo hold on 2 July 1918. Working throughout the night, and with \"Henderson\" listing as much as 15 degrees, and heavily rolling at times, making landing abreast possible on only one side, the destroyers and transferred her 1,600 troop passengers and baggage to the transport without loss of life, completing the transfer by 6:00 am on 3 July. \"Von Steuben\" continued on to Brest, France carrying 3,500 troops and their equipment. Determined firefighting crews soon brought the flames under control and \"Henderson\" returned to the U.S. with destroyers escorting. On 27 February, one day after departing Saint-Nazaire, troopship \"Finland\" 's steering gear jammed, forcing her into the path of \"Henderson\". That ship was able to maneuver such that \"Finland\" only dealt her a glancing blow. \"Finland\" suffered only superficial damage; \"Henderson\" was holed below the waterline, but her crew took advantage of unusually calm February seas to repair the damage, and were soon able to proceed to New York. The transport was carrying a number of wounded soldiers back, to the United States. She sailed again from Philadelphia Tuesday 13 August 1918 and arrived at Brest, France Monday 25 August 1918.\n\nThe \"Henderson\" may have rammed a U-boat that had just sunk tanker \"Frank W. Kellogg\" off the New Jersey coast on August 13, 1918. Lookouts sighted a submarine that was attempting to drive for a torpedo attack and Captain William R. Sayles ordered the rudder hard right attempting to run the enemy down. When the ship was next docked, it was found that her starboard bilge keel had been partly bent and broken. As there is no other explanation, it is believed that this damage was caused by striking the conning tower of the submarine as she was in the act of submerging. After the Armistice \"U-139\" was inspected at Brest where it was noted that not only are the periscopes broken but the thin metal weather screen on the forward side of the conning tower was badly bent as the result of the collision. A German crew member, still on board, stated “the \"U-139\" had encountered an American transport off the Atlantic coast, which had attempted to ram her, and had succeeded in breaking off both periscopes, so that for the remainder of the cruise the submarine was unable to attack while submerged.\" \"U-139\" was commanded by Lothar von Arnauld de la Periere the most successful submariner in the Kaiserliche Marine.\n\nFollowing the armistice, \"Henderson\" made eight more transatlantic voyages bringing home members of the A.E.F. She carried more than 10,000 veterans before returning to Philadelphia on December 27, 1919. She then took up duty as troop rotation ship for Marine units in the Caribbean, carrying Marines, their dependents, and supplies to bases in Cuba, Haiti, and other islands. She also participated in Marine training maneuvers in Florida before returning to Philadelphia on July 6, 1920. After an extended period of repairs, the transport resumed her duties in the Caribbean. This was interrupted from June 21 until July 21 as \"Henderson\" carried military and civilian leaders to observe the historic bombing tests off the Virginia Capes.\n\nDuring the next few years, she also performed ceremonial duties, embarking a congressional party to observe fleet maneuvers in the Caribbean in the spring of 1923, and carrying President Warren G. Harding on an inspection tour of Alaska in July. The President called at Metlakatla, Ketchikan, Wrangell, Juneau, Skagway, Seward, Valdez, Cordova and Sitka in Alaska, as well as Vancouver, Canada. He reviewed the fleet in Washington state's Elliott Bay from the deck of \"Henderson\", before disembarking at Seattle on July 27, only six days before his death.\n\nDuring Fleet Problem III in early 1924, \"Henderson\" participated in a mock amphibious invasion of the Panama Canal Zone. This major training operation by the fleet helped practice assault techniques and led to improved landing craft as well. The ship also aided in the protection of American interests in the volatile Caribbean states and in the Far East.\n\n\"Henderson\" arrived in Shanghai on 2 May 1927 with Marines for the garrison there, and remained in China for six months protecting American nationals in the war-torn country. Here members of her crew originated the \"Domain of the Golden Dragon,\" having cruised back and forth across the International Date Line. The troop transport was engaged in carrying replacements for the fleet and the Marines in China for the next fourteen years.\n\n\"Henderson\" was berthed beside Battleship row and had both troops and women and children on board. On December 6, Marines from the USS Oklahoma volunteered to escort the women and children back to California. When the attack happened, Japanese attack on 7 December 1941, the Henderson was outbound from Pearl Harbor. The Henderson cleared Pearl Harbor at the end of the attack. The captain feared that the Japanese flotilla would continue on to California, having eliminated any opposition from Hawaii. \"Henderson\" would be a slow, conspicuous, and solitary target in their path. He set course for Alaska to avoid being overcome, maintaining strict radio silence even in the face of repeated attempts by the Navy to contact the ship and verify its survival. \"Henderson\" then hugged the Pacific Northwest coast down to San Francisco Bay, arriving several days after it had been presumed missing in action. During the Pacific War, \"Henderson\" continued its service as a transport between California and Hawaii, making over 20 such voyages with fighting men, civilian passengers, and cargo. On her last voyage, she departed Port Hueneme on 18 July 1943 and arrived at Nouméa with 71 much-needed nurses. The transport then sailed to the Solomon Islands with SeaBees before returning to San Francisco on 24 September 1943.\n\n\"Henderson\" was decommissioned on 13 October 1943 for conversion to a hospital ship at General Engineering & Dry Dock Company, Oakland, California.\n\nThe ship was recommissioned as USS \"Bountiful\" (AH-9) on 23 March 1944, Comdr. G. L. Burns in command.\n\n\"Bountiful\" departed San Francisco on 1 April 1944 for Honolulu, returned later that month, and sailed once more on 1 May for the western Pacific. After brief service at Honolulu and Eniwetok, the ship arrived on 18 June at the Saipan invasion beaches. She made three passages to the hospitals on Kwajalein with casualties of the Marianas invasions. About this time \"Bountiful\" established one of the few blood banks in a Naval ship.\n\nThe floating hospital remained at Manus until 17 September when she sailed for the Palaus to bring casualties of the Peleliu landing to hospitals in the Solomons. After November \"Bountiful\" operated between Leyte and the rear bases carrying veterans of the Philippines campaign. She departed Manus on 24 February 1945 for Ulithi and Saipan to receive casualties of the bitter Iwo Jima assault, and in the next months sailed to rendezvous with the fleet to take on wounded from Iwo Jima, Okinawa, and the fleet units themselves. Returning to Leyte Gulf on 15 June, she remained until 21 July, and then got underway for California. \"Bountiful\" arrived after war's end, sailing into San Francisco Bay on 21 August 1945.\n\n\"Bountiful\" was then assigned as hospital ship at Yokosuka, Japan, departing San Francisco 1 November 1945. She arrived on 24 November to support the occupation forces, and remained until 27 March 1946 when she sailed for San Francisco. After delivering her patients, the ship sailed on 26 May for the atomic tests at Bikini Atoll, and after providing medical services during the series of nuclear blasts during \"Operation Crossroads\", she returned to Seattle on 15 August 1946.\n\n\"Bountiful\" was decommissioned on 13 September 1946, and was sold for scrap by the Maritime Commission on 28 January 1948 to Consolidated Builders, Inc., Seattle.\n\n\"Bountiful\" received four battle stars for World War II service.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300651", "title": "Atomik Harmonik", "text": "Atomik Harmonik\n\nAtomik Harmonik is a turbo-folk music group from Kamnik, Slovenia. Their debut single \"Brizgalna Brizga\" stayed at #1 in the Slovenian pop charts for several months. Their other hits include \"Hop Marinka\", \"Na seniku\", \"Od hr'ma do hr'ma\", and their European hit \"Turbo Polka\", which hit the charts in Germany and Austria, bringing the group fame across Europe.\n\n\n\nFrom \"Brizgaaaaj!\":\n\n\nFrom \"Brizgaaaaj! Še več in dlje!\":\n\n\nFrom \"Vriskaaaj!\":\n\nFrom \"Traktor polka\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300652", "title": "Fox 5", "text": "Fox 5\n\nFox 5 may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300654", "title": "Vermont Valley Railroad", "text": "Vermont Valley Railroad\n\nThe Vermont Valley Railroad was a line now called the Connecticut River Line. Hugh H. Henry (1814-1869) of Chester, Vermont was an original incorporator, and was chosen as its first president. He served from 1848 until his death.\n\nIn 1988, the Interstate Commerce Commission ordered the Boston and Maine (B & M) to sell it to Amtrak, with trackage rights staying with the B & M. Amtrak was allowed to sell it to the Central Vermont Railway, part of the Canadian National Railway. The CV obtained the line on September 9. The sale was made because the track condition was not suitable for running Amtrak's Montrealer passenger trains, and Amtrak had to discontinue service on April 5, 1987. Service resumed in July 1989 after Amtrak paid the CV to upgrade the line. \n\nThe companies were unable to agree on a permanent trackage rights agreement, and in 1990, the ICC imposed terms, in which the B&M could serve all \"existing shippers and shippers' facilities\" located on the line and in operation during the 12 months prior to the sale to the CV. The New England Central Railroad acquired the line from the CV in 1994, and the Springfield Terminal Railway has since acquired the trackage rights assigned to the B&M. \n"}
{"id": "2300656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300656", "title": "Stefan Wolff", "text": "Stefan Wolff\n\nStefan Wolff is a German political scientist. He is a specialist in international security, particularly in the management, settlement and prevention of ethnic conflicts. He is currently Professor of International Security at the University of Birmingham in the United Kingdom. Born in 1969, He studied as an undergraduate at the University of Leipzig and holds a Master's degree from Magdalene College, Cambridge, and a PhD from the London School of Economics, where he studied under the supervision of Brendan O'Leary.\n\nWolff specializes in the prevention, management and settlement of ethnic and religious conflicts and in post-conflict reconstruction in deeply divided and war-torn societies. He has expertise in Northern Ireland, the Balkans and the Middle East, and has also worked on a range of other regions, including Central and Eastern Europe, Africa, and Central and Southeast Asia.\n\nWolff is a consultant for national and international governmental and non-governmental organizations and the private sector. He is part of a small team of experts studying and developing complex institutional design solutions for self-determination conflicts, funded, among others, by the Carnegie Endowment. He is also coordinating a research group examining the influence of external factors on the development and stability of ethnic autonomy regimes. Other research and consulting projects in this area have been funded by the UK Foreign Office, the Westminster Foundation for Democracy and the British Academy. He is convener of the Political Studies Association's Specialist Group on Ethnopolitics and the European Consortium for Political Research's Standing Group on Security Issues. Wolff is a member of the Executive Committee of the Ethnicity, Nationalism and Migration Section of the International Studies Association and a member of the Executive Board of the Association for the Study of Nationalities.\n\nPreviously Professor of Political Science at the University of Bath, and Chair in Political Science at the University of Nottingham, he is now based in the Department of Political Science and International Studies at the University of Birmingham. Since the academic year 2003/4 he has also held concurrent appointments as Professorial Lecturer in International Relations at the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies, Bologna Center, and as Resource Fellow of the Open Society Institute's Academic Fellowship Program. Since 2005, he has also been a Teaching Fellow at the Joint Services Command and Staff College of the British Ministry of Defence. In 2003, he was appointed Senior Non-resident Research Associate at the European Centre for Minority Issues in Flensburg, Germany.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300665", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: E–F", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: E–F\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter E or F.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300666", "title": "Anti-Hit List", "text": "Anti-Hit List\n\nThe Anti-Hit List is a weekly music column by Canadian music critic John Sakamoto.\n\nThe column presents a countdown list of Sakamoto's ten favorite non-hit songs of the week. This may include indie rock, mashups, forgotten classics, and other assorted bits of Internet musical culture. Each entry provides a link to a web page where the track can be streamed or downloaded.\n\nThe column was originated on Sun Media's Canoe website. It subsequently moved to \"Eye Weekly\", and until 2010 it appeared on the \"Toronto Star's\" website. \n\nIn 2005, Sakamoto and the \"Star\" launched an Anti-Hit List podcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300671", "title": "Hostivice", "text": "Hostivice\n\nHostivice () is a town in the Czech Republic, a suburb on the west border of Prague. It is close to Prague Ruzyně Airport and on the main road from Prague to Karlovy Vary (Carlsbad).\n\n"}
{"id": "2300684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300684", "title": "Rodd Keith", "text": "Rodd Keith\n\nRodd Keith (born Rodney Keith Eskelin; January 30, 1937 – December 15, 1974) was an American multi-instrumentalist and songwriter. He is perhaps the best known figure in the obscure musical subgenre known as song poem music.\n\nHe worked for several companies active in the song poem business, a practice also known as song sharking, and generally dismissed as a scam.\n\nKeith recorded hundreds of musical compositions based around lyrics sent in to song-poem companies by amateur songwriters, based upon small ads in the backs of mass market magazines promising success in the profitable field of songwriting. After a letter was sent by the company, the amateur songwriters would then be convinced to pay the company a fee to have a recording made and records pressed. Keith sang on many of these recordings as well as playing several different instruments, including saxophone, melodica, and all manner of keyboards. His earliest song-poem work was made for Sandy Stanton's Film City label in which he would build the entire track using a Chamberlin keyboard (a precursor to the mellotron). These early recordings have a woozy, distinctive sound that are like nothing else before or since.\n\nDuring the late 1960s he had his most prolific period working for Clarence Freed's Preview Records label in Los Angeles. Keith masterminded recording sessions for hundreds of 45s and dozens of albums, working with female singers Teri Thornton, Charlotte O'Hara, and Nita Garfield (who used \"noms de disque\" Teri Summers/Teri Marsh/Terri North, Bonnie Graham, and Nita Craig respectively). Thornton, a promising jazz vocalist in the late 1950s and early 1960s, had fallen on hard times, while the latter two were ambitious singers and songwriters who had had material recorded in the C&W and R&B markets.\n\nKeith, who was born into a religious household and was even a musical evangelist for a time, fell in with a hard-living crowd in Los Angeles during the late 1960s and early 1970s, experimenting with different psychedelics. Musically, Rodd Keith seemed at home and completely convincing in a wide variety of musical idioms, becoming almost chameleon-like (an attribute that not all song-poem performers shared). That said, his music is distinctive, with strong melodic hooks, dazzling keyboard playing, highly inventive (and sometimes lush) arrangements, and (depending on the musical style) a wide vocal vibrato. His music has many \"eras\", starting with the early Chamberlin recordings for the Film City label, elaborate jazzy arrangements for his early Preview records, and shambolic yet often compelling mellotron-drenched recordings for his later career. His recordings run the gamut of all the various subgenres of jazz, rock & roll, country, funk, soul and religious music.\n\nIn December 1974, by which time he had moved over to Maury S. Rosen's MSR Records, Keith met his death on the Hollywood Freeway in Los Angeles. According to an article in the \"Los Angeles Times\" (which ran on December 16, 1974) Keith was seen \"leaping or falling from an overcrossing onto the Hollywood Freeway,\" and he \"plunged down the Santa Monica Blvd. overpass onto the northbound freeway about 5:15 a.m. and drivers could not avoid him.\" It has been suggested that this was a suicidal act, but Keith's heavy drug use at this time has led others to claim it was an accident.\n\nIn the 1990s, record collectors who seek out old vinyl recordings rediscovered these obscure discs. Several compilations of these songs were released on compact disc, including several which featured the work of Keith exclusively. Keith's son, avant-garde saxophonist Ellery Eskelin, provided commentary on these releases. Although Eskelin never actually met his father, he was told by many people that he was some kind of musical genius. Keith once remarked that he spelled \"Rodd\" with two d's because \"God only used one.\"\n\n\"This American Life\", an NPR show, had an interview with Ellery Eskelin, who spoke about his discovery of his father's works. This show originally aired August 15, 1997.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300685", "title": "Santa Monica Civic Auditorium", "text": "Santa Monica Civic Auditorium\n\nSanta Monica Civic Auditorium is a multi-purpose convention center at 1855 Main Street in Santa Monica, California, owned by the City of Santa Monica. It was built in 1958 and designed by Welton Becket.\n\nThe building was made of reinforced concrete and combined elements of a theater, concert hall, and trade show and convention auditorium. Parabolic pylons supported the exterior grand cantilevered canopy fronting a glass curtain wall and brise soleil, a patterned wall that reduced the effects of the sun's glare.\n\nFor trade shows, the Civic Auditorium features , while the stage adds more space, for a total of . The East Wing meeting room adds an additional , while the main lobby features .\n\nThe main hall of the Civic is adaptable for not only trade shows, but also sporting events, concerts, meetings, awards shows and other events. As a concert venue it can seat 3,000, as a banquet hall 720 in tables, and as a sports arena it can seat up to 2,500. The most widely touted innovation was the auditorium's main floor, which in a matter of seconds could be tilted by a hydraulic mechanism to form raked seating for theatrical productions or a flat surface for dancing or exhibits. The main floor of the auditorium can thus be raised or lowered to create a raked floor for theatre seating or a level floor for exhibits.\n\nThe parcel includes the auditorium and surrounding land bounded on the north by the county building, on the west by Main Street, on the east by 4th Street and on the south by Pico Boulevard.\n\nThe Santa Monica Civic Auditorium opened in summer 1958. At that time, it was the second-largest auditorium in the Los Angeles area.\n\nThe $2.9-million city-owned project soon became an acclaimed music venue, for artists as varied as David Bowie, Eric Clapton, Frank Sinatra, Village People, Dave Brubeck, Laura Nyro, The Limeliters, Ella Fitzgerald, Free, Traffic, Prince, Tim Buckley and Bob Dylan. On October 28 and 29, 1964, the auditorium was host to the \"T.A.M.I. Show\", a filmed concert featuring James Brown and The Rolling Stones. A home of the Academy Awards from 1961 to 1967, the auditorium remains home to the Santa Monica Symphony Orchestra. Pink Floyd performed there on May 1, 1970.\n\nGeorge Carlin's album \"Class Clown\" was recorded at the auditorium on May 27, 1972, and was released later that year on September 29. Carlin first performed his infamous monologue \"Seven Words You Can Never Say on Television\" at the show's finale. On July 21, 1972, Carlin was arrested and charged with violating obscenity laws after performing the routine at Summerfest.\n\nThe Eagles performed three consecutive shows during The Long Run Tour on July 27–29, 1980. The show was recorded and mostly featured on their live album, entitled \"Eagles Live\". Blue Öyster Cult played in support of its \"Club Ninja\" album in March 1986; the show was recorded for radio broadcast, and several songs from the performance were finally made available as part of a box set in 2012, including the never-before released \"Wings Of Mercury\".\n\nOn April 9, 1982, \"Weird Al\" Yankovic made his first major appearance at the auditorium, when his band opened for Missing Persons. It was not a happy experience; \"I got pelted for 45 minutes\", he later said, \"(with) anything that wasn't nailed down\".\n\nIn 1986, the Santa Monica City Council discussed a preliminary report containing four plans calling for various combinations of office buildings, a hotel, a museum, a conference center, a playhouse, parking garages and open space and, in two of the plans, demolition of the auditorium. By the 2000s, the Civic Auditorium was operating at an annual deficit of as much as $2 million, which the city has had to cover. The City of Santa Monica began to plan for a $51.9-million renovation using redevelopment funds and negotiated with the Nederlander Organization to book events. That effort was suspended after Governor Jerry Brown dissolved community redevelopment agencies. Per the \"Santa Monica Mirror\" newspaper, the auditorium was expected to close in July 2013 for at least five years. It needs at least $23 million in seismic and accessibly upgrades. A complete renovation would exceed $50 million. From an economic perspective, it would be cheaper to replace it, but many consider it a landmark worth preserving. The city has an annual budget of more than half of a billion dollars and is considering its priorities.\n\nPhish made their only appearance at the venue on December 10, 1994, which was the final show of their 1994 fall tour.\n\n\"As of 2016 the Santa Monica Civic Auditorium is currently available for limited filming, photo shoots, private events, and meetings\". \nThe Civic Auditorium parking lot is also used for shows like the AltCar Expo Conference that took place in September 2016. The AltCar Expo features hi-tech electric vehicles equipped with latest technology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300687", "title": "Viscosity solution", "text": "Viscosity solution\n\nIn mathematics, the viscosity solution concept was introduced in the early 1980s by Pierre-Louis Lions and Michael G. Crandall as a generalization of the classical concept of what is meant by a 'solution' to a partial differential equation (PDE). It has been found that the viscosity solution is the natural solution concept to use in many applications of PDE's, including for example first order equations arising in optimal control (the Hamilton–Jacobi–Bellman equation), differential games (the Hamilton–Jacobi–Isaacs equation) or front evolution problems, as well as second-order equations such as the ones arising in stochastic optimal control or stochastic differential games.\n\nThe classical concept was that a PDE\nover a domain formula_2 has a solution if we can find a function \"u\"(\"x\") continuous and differentiable over the entire domain such that formula_3, formula_4, formula_5, formula_6 satisfy the above equation at every point.\n\nIf a scalar equation is degenerate elliptic (defined below), one can define a type of weak solution called \"viscosity solution\".\nUnder the viscosity solution concept, \"u\" does not need to be everywhere differentiable. There may be points where either formula_5 or formula_6 does not exist and yet \"u\" satisfies the equation in an appropriate generalized sense. The definition allows only for certain kind of singularities, so that existence, uniqueness, and stability under uniform limits, hold for a large class of equations.\n\nThere are several equivalent ways to phrase the definition of viscosity solutions. See for example the section II.4 of Fleming and Soner's book or the definition using semi-jets in the Users Guide.\n\n\n\n\n\nConsider the boundary value problem formula_39, or formula_40, on formula_41 with boundary conditions formula_42. The function formula_43 is the unique viscosity solution. To see this, note that the boundary conditions are satisfied, and formula_39 is well-defined on the interior except at formula_45. Thus, it remains to show that the conditions for subsolution and supersolution hold at formula_46.\n\nFirst, suppose that formula_47 is any function differentiable at formula_46 with formula_49 and formula_50 near formula_46. From these assumptions, it follows that formula_52. For positive formula_3, this inequality implies formula_54, using that formula_55 for formula_56. On the other hand, for formula_57, we have that formula_58. Because formula_25 is differentiable, the left and right limits agree and are equal to formula_60, and we therefore conclude that formula_61, i.e., formula_62. Thus, formula_4 is a subsolution. Moreover, the fact that formula_4 is a supersolution holds vacuously, since there is no function formula_47 differentiable at formula_46 with formula_49 and formula_68 near formula_46. This implies that formula_4 is a viscosity solution.\n\nThe previous boundary value problem is an Eikonal equation in a single spatial dimension with formula_71, where the solution is known to be the signed distance function to the boundary of the domain. Note also in the previous example, the importance of the sign of formula_72. In particular, the viscosity solution to the PDE formula_73 with the same boundary conditions is formula_74. This can be explained by observing that the solution formula_43 is the limiting solution of the vanishing viscosity problem formula_76 as formula_77 goes to zero, while formula_74 is the limit solution of the vanishing viscosity problem formula_79 . One can readily confirm that formula_80 solves the PDE formula_76 for each epsilon. Further, the family of solutions formula_82 converge toward the solution formula_83 as formula_77 vanishes (see Figure).\n\nThe three basic properties of viscosity solutions are \"existence\", \"uniqueness\" and \"stability\".\n\nThe term \"viscosity solutions\" first appear in the work of Michael G. Crandall and Pierre-Louis Lions in 1983 regarding the Hamilton–Jacobi equation. The name is justified by the fact that the existence of solutions was obtained by the vanishing viscosity method. The definition of solution had actually been given earlier by Lawrence C. Evans in 1980. Subsequently the definition and properties of viscosity solutions for the Hamilton–Jacobi equation were refined in a joint work by Crandall, Evans and Lions in 1984.\n\nFor a few years the work on viscosity solutions concentrated on first order equations because it was not known whether second order elliptic equations would have a unique viscosity solution except in very particular cases. The breakthrough result came with the method introduced by Robert Jensen in 1988 to prove the comparison principle using a regularized approximation of the solution which has a second derivative almost everywhere (in modern versions of the proof this is achieved with sup-convolutions and Alexandrov theorem).\n\nIn subsequent years the concept of viscosity solution has become increasingly prevalent in analysis of degenerate elliptic PDE. Based on their stability properties, Barles and Souganidis obtained a very simple and general proof of convergence of finite difference schemes. Further regularity properties of viscosity solutions were obtained, especially in the uniformly elliptic case with the work of Luis Caffarelli. Viscosity solutions have become a central concept in the study of elliptic PDE. In particular, Viscosity solutions are essential in the study of the infinity Laplacian. \nIn the modern approach, the existence of solutions is obtained most often through the Perron method. The vanishing viscosity method is not practical for second order equations in general since the addition of artificial viscosity does not guarantee the existence of a classical solution. Moreover, the definition of \"viscosity solutions\" does not generally involve physical viscosity. Nevertheless, while the theory of viscosity solutions is sometimes considered unrelated to viscous fluids, irrotational fluids can indeed be described by a Hamilton-Jacobi equation \n. In this case, viscosity corresponds to the bulk viscosity of an irrotational, incompressible fluid.\nOther names that were suggested were \"Crandall–Lions solutions\", in honor to their pioneers, \"formula_92-weak solutions\", referring to their stability properties, or \"comparison solutions\", referring to their most characteristic property.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300688", "title": "Complications of pregnancy", "text": "Complications of pregnancy\n\nComplications of pregnancy are health problems that are related to pregnancy. Complications that occur primarily during childbirth are termed obstetric labor complications, and problems that occur primarily after childbirth are termed puerperal disorders. Severe complications of pregnancy, childbirth, and the puerperium are present in 1.6% of mothers in the US and in 1.5% of mothers in Canada. In the immediate postpartum period (puerperium), 87% to 94% of pregnant individuals report at least one health problem. Long-term health problems (persisting after six months postpartum) are reported by 31% of pregnant individuals.\n\nIn 2016, complications of pregnancy, childbirth, and the puerperium resulted globally in 230,600 deaths, down from 377,000 deaths in 1990. The most common causes of maternal mortality are maternal bleeding, maternal sepsis and other infections, hypertensive diseases of pregnancy, obstructed labor, and , which includes miscarriage, ectopic pregnancy, and elective abortion.\n\nThere is no clear distinction between complications of pregnancy and symptoms and discomforts of pregnancy. However, the latter do not significantly interfere with activities of daily living or pose any significant threat to the health of the mother or baby. Still, in some cases the same basic feature can manifest as either a discomfort or a complication depending on the severity. For example, mild nausea may merely be a discomfort (morning sickness), but if severe and with vomiting causing water-electrolyte imbalance it can be classified as a pregnancy complication (hyperemesis gravidarum).\n\nThe following problems originate mainly in the mother.\n\nGestational diabetes is when a woman without diabetes develops high blood sugar levels during pregnancy.\n\nHyperemesis gravidarum is the presence of severe and persistent vomiting, causing dehydration and weight loss. It is more severe than the more common morning sickness and is estimated to affect 0.5–2.0% of pregnant individuals.\n\n\nPotential severe hypertensive states of pregnancy are mainly:\n\nDeep vein thrombosis (DVT), a form of venous thromboembolism (VTE), has an incidence of 0.5 to 7 per 1,000 pregnancies, and is the second most common cause of maternal death in developed countries after bleeding.\n\n\nLevels of hemoglobin are lower in the third trimesters. According to the United Nations (UN) estimates, approximately half of pregnant individuals suffer from anemia worldwide. Anemia prevalences during pregnancy differed from 18% in developed countries to 75% in South Asia.\n\nTreatment varies due to the severity of the anaemia, and can be used by increasing iron containing foods, oral iron tablets or by the use of parenteral iron.\n\nA pregnant woman is more susceptible to certain infections. This increased risk is caused by an increased immune tolerance in pregnancy to prevent an immune reaction against the fetus, as well as secondary to maternal physiological changes including a decrease in respiratory volumes and urinary stasis due to an enlarging uterus. Pregnant individuals are more severely affected by, for example, influenza, hepatitis E, herpes simplex and malaria. The evidence is more limited for coccidioidomycosis, measles, smallpox, and varicella. Mastitis, or inflammation of the breast occurs in 20% of lactating individuals.\n\nSome infections are vertically transmissible, meaning that they can affect the child as well.\n\nPeripartum cardiomyopathy is decrease in heart function which occurs in the last month of pregnancy, or up to six months post-pregnancy. It increases the risk of congestive heart failure, heart arrhythmias, thromboembolism, and cardiac arrest.\n\nHypothyroidism (also called Hashimoto's disease) is an autoimmune disease that affects the thyroid in pregnant individuals. This condition can have a profound effect during pregnancy and on the child. The infant may be seriously affected and have a variety of birth defects. Many pregnant individuals with Hashimoto's disease develop an underactive thyroid. The clinician will do an exam and order one or more tests.\n\nThe following problems occur in the fetus or placenta, but may have serious consequences on the mother as well.\n\nEctopic pregnancy is implantation of the embryo outside the uterus\n\nMiscarriage is the loss of a pregnancy prior to 20 weeks. In the UK, miscarriage is defined as the loss of a pregnancy during the first 23 weeks.\n\nPlacental abruption is the separation of the placenta from the uterus.\n\n\nPlacenta praevia is when the placenta fully or partially covers the cervix.\n\nPlacenta accreta is an abnormal adherence of the placenta to the uterine wall.\n\nMultiples may become monochorionic, sharing the same chorion, with resultant risk of twin-to-twin transfusion syndrome. Monochorionic multiples may even become monoamniotic, sharing the same amniotic sac, resulting in risk of umbilical cord compression and entanglement. In very rare cases, there may be conjoined twins, possibly impairing function of internal organs.\n\nThe embryo and fetus have little or no immune function. They depend on the immune function of their mother. Several pathogens can cross the placenta and cause (perinatal) infection. Often microorganisms that produce minor illness in the mother are very dangerous for the developing embryo or fetus. This can result in spontaneous abortion or major developmental disorders. For many infections, the baby is more at risk at particular stages of pregnancy. Problems related to perinatal infection are not always directly noticeable.\n\nThe term TORCH complex refers to a set of several different infections that may be caused by transplacental infection.\n\nBabies can also become infected by their mother during birth. During birth, babies are exposed to maternal blood and body fluids without the placental barrier intervening and to the maternal genital tract. Because of this, blood-borne microorganisms (hepatitis B, HIV), organisms associated with sexually transmitted disease (e.g., gonorrhoea and chlamydia), and normal fauna of the genito-urinary tract (e.g., Candida) are among those commonly seen in infection of newborns.\n\nThere have been rare but known cases of intrauterine bleeding caused by injury inflicted by the fetus with its fingernails or toenails.\n\nFactors increasing the risk (to either the pregnant individual, the fetus/es, or both) of pregnancy complications beyond the normal level of risk may be present in the pregnant individual's medical profile either before they become pregnant or during the pregnancy. These pre-existing factors may related to the individual's genetics, physical or mental health, their environment and social issues, or a combination of those.\n\nSome common biological risk factors include:\n\n\n\nSome common environmental risk factors include:\n\n\nSome disorders and conditions can mean that pregnancy is considered high-risk (about 6-8% of pregnancies in the USA) and in extreme cases may be contraindicated. High-risk pregnancies are the main focus of doctors specialising in maternal-fetal medicine.\n\nSerious pre-existing disorders which can reduce a woman's physical ability to survive pregnancy include a range of congenital defects (that is, conditions with which the woman herself was born, for example, those of the heart or , some of which are listed above) and diseases acquired at any time during the woman's life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300694", "title": "Salpointe Catholic High School", "text": "Salpointe Catholic High School\n\nSalpointe Catholic High School is a co-ed Catholic high school in Tucson, Arizona run by the Carmelite Order. It is located in the Roman Catholic Diocese of Tucson.\n\nSalpointe Catholic High School is named for Arizona's first Bishop, Jean-Baptiste Salpointe, who worked as a missionary in the Arizona Territory from 1866 to 1885.\n\nIn the late 1940s, Tucson's parochial grammar schools had nine grades. The desire to build a Catholic high school for these graduates prompted the Diocese of Tucson to purchase the 40-acre () Florence Addition. Salpointe Catholic High School began in 1950 as a modest school consisting of what is now the Farr Patio and cafeteria. On the first day of school, Salpointe opened its doors to 100 students. At this time, Tucson High School and Amphitheater High School were the only other high schools in Tucson. Salpointe had nine classrooms, a library and administrative offices. The first principal was Rev. Victor Stoner. He was followed by Rev. Edward Carscallen and Rev. George Dyke.\n\nIn the summer of 1952, Msgr. Francis Green, pastor of Ss. Peter and Paul Parish, visited the Chancery Office in Chicago where he met Rev. Romaeus O'Brien, O. Carm. He mentioned that Bishop Daniel Gercke of Tucson was thinking about asking a religious order to operate Salpointe. In the spring of 1953, Msgr. Green made a formal request that the Carmelites come to Tucson. Rev. Joseph Bonaventure Gilmore, O. Carm., Provincial Counselor, and Rev. Kenneth Moore, O. Carm., Assistant Provincial, met with Msgr. Green, Msgr. Don Hughes, President of the Salpointe School Board, and other pastors. Fr. Gilmore became the first Carmelite Principal in the summer of 1953. In August, he wrote to Rev. Raphael Kieffer, O. Carm., Carmelite Provincial, asking that the two promised Carmelites arrive as soon as possible.\n\nThe day school opened, Fr. Frank Florian McCarthy, O. Carm., and Fr. Carl Pfister, O. Carm. arrived from Mt. Carmel High School in Chicago. The original faculty consisted of three Carmelites, six Sisters of St. Joseph, three Sisters of Charity of Seton Hill, two Sisters of Charity of the Blessed Virgin Mary, and one Benedictine. Two laymen and one laywoman were also on the staff. On September 8, 1955, Bishop Gercke transferred ownership of the forty acres and buildings, then known as \"Salpointe High School\", to the Carmelites for \"$10.00 and other valuable considerations.\"\n\nMuch of Salpointe's early development (1954–1966) was due to the generosity of Helena S. Corcoran (with the support of her husband) who donated $8–$10 million for expansion of the Salpointe campus. Under her sponsorship, the school grew from 400 to 1,000 pupils, and the physical infrastructure that forms much of today's campus was established.\n\nIn 1993, the Catalina Foothills Unified School District went before the U.S. Supreme Court to argue that it did not have to provide an American Sign Language interpreter to a deaf student attending Salpointe Catholic High School. The district argued that, while the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act would normally require such services if the student attended public school, providing it for religious instruction at Salpointe would be unconstitutional. In \"Zobrest v. Catalina Foothills School District\", the court found \"that the Establishment Clause does not bar the school district from providing the requested interpreter.\"\n\nAdmissions decisions are made on the basis of information provided on several application forms, recommendations, transcripts, and a personal interview.\n\nThe admissions process starts in the fall of each year, before a student intends to enroll at Salpointe. Several important admissions-related events are held at Salpointe including Open House and Step Up Day.\n\nTransfer and mid-year applications are accepted for consideration throughout the year.\n\nThe administration of the school consists of nine members headed by the President. Answering to the President are the Principal, Director of Operations, the Director of Athletics, the Director of Campus Ministry, the Assistant Principal for Faculty Development and Supervision, Assistant Principal for Student Services, the Director of Counseling and the Director of Advancement.\n\nThe Board of Members consists of the members of the Provincial Council of the Society of Mount Carmel of Illinois (the Most Pure Heart of Mary Province of the Carmelite Order). Members serve for a term of three years.\n\nThe purpose, philosophy, and mission of Salpointe Catholic are the responsibility of the Board of Members. They also select and terminate the president of the school and the slate of candidates for principal. Certain financial measures require the approval of the Board of Members as well as any changes to the Articles of Incorporation and changes in the bylaws.\n\nThe Board of Directors is a committee of up to 18 members serving as the policy making body for the school. Membership consists of up to four representatives of the Carmelite community and at least 10 members of the community at large. As trustees for the Carmelite Order, this Board oversees the administration of the school, makes policies affecting all areas of school operations, oversees its financial well-being and plans extensively for the future.\n\nSalpointe offers a four-year program with seven classes per year for all students. Salpointe curriculum requirements for the class of 2014-2015 include four credits in English, four credits in Mathematics, four credits in Theology, three credits in Science, three and half credits in Social Studies, two credits in the same World Language, one credit in Exercise Science, one credit in Fine Arts, a half credit in Career and Technology Education, a half credit in Service Learning, and three and a half credits in electives. Twenty-seven credits are required to graduate. The student/teacher ratio is 15:1. The North Central Association of Colleges and Schools named Salpointe the first college preparatory school in Southern Arizona in 1987 because of its college prep curriculum. Salpointe was the third school in the state to receive this classification following Brophy and Xavier in Phoenix. The school is also certified by the Western Catholic Education Association.\n\nAll courses are college-preparatory. Humanities, Advanced Placement and honors courses are offered. Salpointe has a high school to college conversion rate of 95%. 245 students in the Class of 2015 were admitted to 175 colleges, universities and military academies. 80% matriculated to four-year institutions, 15% matriculated to two-year institutions and 5% selected military service or work. 56% of seniors participated in varsity athletics and all 24 athletic teams averaged a 3.5 GPA or higher.\n\nThe Humanities program is a challenging two-year program offered to highly motivated students. Established in 1978, the program provides an integrated, interdisciplinary, multi-cultural approach needed by students to actively take part in their communities and a complex global universe. All final placements in Humanities require department approval. This program fulfills English and Fine Arts requirements for graduation.\n\nIn 2015, Salpointe opened their Cracchiolo Family Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Center. The 8,000 square-foot building was part of a $12 million capital campaign that also funded a new athletics complex and student center. The STEM center focuses on engineering, robotics and biotechnology and includes a 3D printer, a biomedical lab, classrooms and outdoor work spaces. Salpointe's STEM program is one of the first integrated STEM high school curricula in Southern Arizona.\n\nAs of 2016, the courses offered in the STEM program include Engineering 102, Engineering Fundamentals, Intermediate Robotics, Mechanical Engineering and Design, Advanced Robotics, Biotechnology, and Environmental Engineering.\n\nOver 85% of students participate in co-curricular activities each year. Salpointe sponsors 24 varsity athletic teams competing primarily at the Division II level. Lancers have accumulated the largest number of AIA Scholar-Athlete awards in the State of Arizona and have won 259 Region Championships, 46 State Runner-Up and 27 State Championships in various sports, including football State Championship in 2013. \nOn campus facilities include a gymnasium, weight room, wrestling room, football, soccer, rugby, track, baseball and softball fields. Tennis, cross-country and swimming utilize off campus facilities.\n\nSalpointe athletes are often recruited to play NCAA athletics. A few of the recent alumni to reach collegiate athletics are Tommy McGeorge (University of Iowa, tennis), Whitney Dosty (Arizona, women's volleyball), Bryce Livingston (West Point/Army, track and cross country), Tyler Graunke (Hawaii, football), Jack Darlington (Nevada, football), CJ Kaufman Jr. (Akron, soccer), Max Fritz (San Diego, football), Kristofer O'Dowd (USC, football), Chris Ciarvella (Cornell, football), Daniel Waddy (St. Mary's, basketball), Matt Ransom (Princeton, football), Kevin Grenier (SMU, football) Charles Blase (San Diego, soccer), Michael Descisciolo (Arizona, football), Emma Darlington (Arizona, women's swimming), Jonathan Khan (Arizona, golf), Alex Johnson (University of Pacific, golf), Scott Tunnell (Newman, golf), Ryan Scheffer (Notre Dame de Namur, golf), Robert Perrott (University of Pacific, golf), Sybil Dosty (ASU, basketball), John Kadous (Notre Dame, football), Damir Suljagic (Texas Tech, basketball), Trey Clarkson (Western New Mexico, basketball), Analisa Marquez (Arizona, soccer), Jade Michaelsen (University of New Mexico, women's volleyball), Jacob Hunter (Yale, baseball), Dan Slania (Notre Dame, baseball), Sean Craig (Air Force, football), Zach Fregosi (Trinity, baseball), Sara Brown (Michigan State, golf), Erik Carter (Denver, lacrosse), Brian Prouty (Arizona, golf), Jacob Arzouman (Arizona, football), Catie Coyle (Maryland, women's volleyball), Jordan Scelfo (Incarnate Word, football and baseball), Gabi Ruiz (Harvard, softball), Kelli Ford (Grand Canyon University, soccer), Paige Peterson (DePaul, softball) and Kendra Strohm (University of Texas, tennis), Matthew Dunn (University of Arizona, tennis).\n\nIn addition to widely notable athletics, Salpointe's drama department is recognized by the Arizona State Thespian Board, and has been invited to perform school productions on the \"main stage\" at the Arizona State Thespian festival. In 2012, Salpointe was the first-ever Southern Arizona school to receive state selection of a one-act performance to be performed at a national level.\n\nIn 2013, Salpointe's drama students, with their production \"Cash on Delivery,\" were invited to perform in front of thousands of their peers at the State Thespian Festival, under the direction of Dana Milne, the school's Director of Fine Arts.\n\nSalpointe also has a band and orchestra, which have, on multiple occasions, been featured on a local Tucson, Arizona based news station, for their weekly \"wake up call\". In 2016, one of Salpointe's brass musicians, Alexander Melnychuck, was included as part of the GRAMMY Camp — Jazz Session and GRAMMY in the Schools Media Team.\n\nUnder the guidance of the Carmelites, Salpointe has developed an active campus ministry. Students are encouraged to attend a number of retreats throughout their time at Salpointe, culminating in the Kairos experience during their junior or senior year.\n\nIn addition to routine academic counseling and schedule management, the school counselors are also actively engaged in helping students mature in their decision-making, values clarification, and interpersonal relationships. \nSalpointe's Counseling and Guidance Department has undertaken a number of novel initiatives in recent years such as the Community of Concern program. The Community of Concern committee sponsors annual forums to inform parents about medical, legal, criminal and social aspects of drug and alcohol abuse.\n\nThe school has also established a mandatory drug testing program to screen every student at least one time during the school year for drug use.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300700", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: G", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: G\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter G.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300702", "title": "Curb chain", "text": "Curb chain\n\nA curb chain, or curb strap, is a piece of horse tack required for proper use on any type of curb bit. It is a flat linked chain or flat strap that runs under the chin groove of the horse, between the bit shank's purchase arms. It has a buckle or hook attachment and English designs have a \"fly link\" in the middle to hold a lip strap. On English bridles the horse is bridled with the curb chain undone on one side, then connected once on the horse. On western bridles, the curb chain is kept buckled to both sides of the bit.\n\nThe main use of the curb chain is to enhance and control the lever action of a curb bit. Additionally, it helps to keep the bit steady and in place within the mouth. On English pelham and double bridles the curb chin is attached by a ring (\"fly link\" (UK)) to a lip strap, which helps keep the lip strap in place while the lip strap in turn prevents the curb chain from being lost if it becomes unhooked. \n\nThe curb chain applies pressure to the curb groove under a horse's chin when the curb rein of the bit is used. When the curb rein is pulled, the shank of the bit rotates back towards the chest of the horse and the cheek (upper shank) of the bit rotates forward (since it is a lever arm). The curb chain is attached to the rings at the end of the cheek, so, as the cheek moves forward, the chain is pulled and tightened in the curb groove. Once it comes in contact with the curb groove of the horse it acts as a fulcrum, causing the cannons of the bit mouthpiece to push down onto the horse's bars, thus amplifying the bit's pressure on the bars of the horse's mouth.\n\nThe tightness of the curb chain has a great effect on the action of the bit. If the bit is used without a curb chain, it loses its leverage action. If used with a loose curb chain, it allows the shanks to rotate more before the curb chain is tight enough to act as a fulcrum and exert pressure. This extra rotation can warn the horse before pressure is exerted on his mouth, so he may respond beforehand. Conversely, a very loose curb chain can be undesirable, allowing the bit to rotate in the mouth too much, causing the port, especially a high port, to become too vertical and press against the palate, which is painful, can damage the mouth in extreme cases, and can cause the horse to gape. Additionally, it can completely nullify the correct action of the curb, making its use pointless.\n\nThere are two undesirable consequences when using a very tight curb chain. First, the bit immediately exerts curb pressure and increased pressure on the bars as soon as pressure is applied to the reins. Therefore, a tight curb chain is much harsher, and provides less finesse in signaling the horse than a looser curb chain would, as the horse is never given a chance to respond before the curb chain engages. Secondly, an extremely tight curb chain causes the mouthpiece to constantly push down on the sensitive tongue, never allowing the horse relief. \n\nA curb chain is generally adjusted so it comes into action when the shank rotates 45 degrees back. However, skilled riders with experience with the curb bit may adjust the chain tighter to accommodate the needs of the individual horse, type of equipment, and training situation. However, keeping the curb chain looser allows more accommodation for rider error.\n\nThe curb chain should be applied by twisting it clockwise on one hook until it is flat, and then attaching it to the other hook. A twisted curb chain is far harsher in its effect than a flat one.\n\nCurb chains vary in width and linkage. Thinner curb chains are more severe, ones that are too thin are banned in competition, and any curb chain could cause sores if the chain is not adjusted properly and used with discretion. For horses that are sensitive or that are rubbed by the chain, a cover made of rubber, neoprene, leather, or gel can be used, or a leather curb strap. However, it is important that the rider check that the curb is being used correctly and is not the cause of the rubs. \n\nPrice, Steven D., ed.\"The Whole Horse Catalogue.\" New York: Simon and Schuster/Brigadore Press, 1977\n"}
{"id": "2300706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300706", "title": "John Dobson (Canadian politician)", "text": "John Dobson (Canadian politician)\n\nJohn Dobson (8 September 1824 – 27 January 1907) was a Conservative member of the Senate of Canada from 23 February 1892 until his death.\n\nBorn in County Fermanagh, Ireland, the son of John Dobson and Mary Henry, he was educated at the Public Schools. After residing in Toronto for a few years he moved to Lindsay, Ontario. He was elected Mayor of Lindsay by acclamation in 1873, and also to the office of President of the Board of Trade. He was President of the South Victoria Agricultural Society and Chairman of the School Board. He was also President of the South Victoria Conservative Association for over 25 years. A Conservative, he was called to the Senate on the advice of John Joseph Caldwell Abbott on February 23, 1892 and represented the senatorial division of Lindsay, Ontario for almost 15 years until his death.\n"}
{"id": "2300717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300717", "title": "John Hearne", "text": "John Hearne\n\nJohn Hearne may be:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300721", "title": "Grand Theft Auto IV", "text": "Grand Theft Auto IV\n\nGrand Theft Auto IV is a 2008 action-adventure game developed by Rockstar North and published by Rockstar Games. It is the eleventh title in the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, and the first main entry since 2004's \"\". Set within the fictional Liberty City (based on New York City), the single-player story follows a war veteran, Niko Bellic, and his attempts to escape his past while under pressure from loan sharks and mob bosses. The open world design lets players freely roam Liberty City, consisting of three main islands.\n\nThe game is played from a third-person perspective and its world is navigated on-foot or by vehicle. Throughout the single-player mode, players play as Niko Bellic. An online multiplayer mode is included with the game, allowing up to 32 players to engage in both co-operative and competitive gameplay in a recreation of the single-player setting. Two expansion packs were later released for the game, \"\" and \"\", which both feature new plots that are interconnected with the main \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" storyline, and follow new protagonists.\n\nDevelopment began soon after the release of \"Grand Theft Auto: San Andreas\" and was shared between many of Rockstar's studios worldwide. The game introduced a shift to a more realistic and detailed style and tone for the series. Unlike previous entries, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" lacked a strong cinematic influence, as the team attempted an original approach to the story. As part of their research for the open world, the developers conducted field research around New York throughout development and captured footage for the design team.\n\nFollowing its announcement in May 2006, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was widely anticipated. It was released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 consoles in April 2008, and for Microsoft Windows in December 2008. Upon release, the game received universal critical acclaim, with praise particularly directed at the narrative and open world design. \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" broke industry sales records and became the fastest-selling entertainment product in history at the time, earning in its first day and $500 million in its first week. Considered one of the most significant titles of the seventh generation of video games, and by many critics as one of the greatest video games of all time, it won year-end accolades, including Game of the Year awards from several gaming publications. The game had sold over 25 million copies by 2013, and is one of the best-selling PlayStation 3 games. The game also generated controversy, with criticism directed at the game's depiction of violence and players' ability to drive under the influence of alcohol. Its successor, \"Grand Theft Auto V\", was released in September 2013.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" is an action-adventure game played from a third-person perspective. Players complete missions—linear scenarios with set objectives—to progress through the story. It is possible to have several active missions running at one time, as some missions require players to wait for further instructions or events. Outside of missions, players can freely roam the game's open world, and have the ability to complete optional side missions. Composed of the fictional city of Liberty City, the world of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" is larger in area than most earlier entries in the series. At the beginning of the game, players can only explore the first island–composed of Dukes and Broker–with all other islands unlocking as the story progresses.\n\nPlayers use melee attacks, firearms and explosives to fight enemies, and may run, jump, swim or use vehicles to navigate the game's world. There is a first-person perspective option when using vehicles. In combat, auto-aim and a cover system can be used as assistance against enemies. Should players take damage, their health meter can be fully regenerated using multiple techniques, such as eating, using medical kits, or calling for paramedics. If players commit crimes while playing, the game's law enforcement agencies may respond as indicated by a \"wanted\" meter in the head-up display (HUD). On the meter, the displayed stars indicate the current wanted level (for example, at the maximum six-star level, efforts by law enforcement to incapacitate players become very aggressive). Law enforcement officers will search for players who leave the wanted vicinity. The wanted meter enters a cool-down mode and eventually recedes when players are hidden from the officers' line of sight.\nThe game's cover system allows players to move between cover, to fire blindly, aim freely, and target a specific enemy. Individual body parts can also be targeted. Melee attacks include additional moves, such as dodging, blocking, disarming an opponent and counter-attacking. Body armour can be used to absorb gunshots and explosive damage, but is used up in the process. When health is entirely depleted, gameplay stops, and players respawn at the nearest hospital.\n\nThe game's single-player mode lets players control an Eastern European war veteran, Niko Bellic. During the story, Niko meets various new characters, many of whom he befriends. These characters can then perform favours for Niko whenever he asks; for example, his cousin Roman, who owns a taxi service, can send one of his cabs to Niko and take him to any destination around the city. Cabs are always available during gameplay, allowing players to quickly travel to a destination. Throughout the course of the game, players are also faced with morality choices, which alter the storyline appropriately depending on the player's choice. While free roaming the game world, players may engage in context-specific activities such as bowling or darts. Other available activities include a vigilante mini-game, and in-game television programming. Niko has a smartphone for contacting friends and starting activities. The smartphone is also used to access the game's online multiplayer mode, and to enter cheat codes. To access the in-game Internet, which allows Niko to send and receive emails and set up prospective dates with potential girlfriends, Niko can use Internet cafés located around the city. The game also features a subway system, allowing players to quickly traverse through the game's world.\nThe online multiplayer mode for \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" allows up to 32 players to freely roam across a recreation of the single-player world. Players decide which game mode that they wish to play, including deathmatches and street races. Both cooperative and competitive game modes are available. These game modes are split into ranked and unranked matches. For players to level up through ranks, in-game money must be earned. The game also features a Free Mode, in which players have the entire map open to explore, with no end goal or mission to complete. Hosts of the game can control many variables, such as police presence, traffic, and weapons. LAN support is available in the Windows version of the game.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" takes place in 2008, within a redesigned version of Liberty City. The design of the setting focuses on a recreation of four of the boroughs of New York City – Broker (based on Brooklyn), Dukes (Queens), Bohan (The Bronx), and Algonquin (Manhattan). The setting also includes the independent state of Alderney, based on Northern New Jersey, and three minor islands based on those around New York City: Charge Island (Randall's Island), Colony Island (Roosevelt Island), and Happiness Island (Liberty Island). Initially, bridges are locked down due to a terrorist threat, and players are constantly pursued by police if the bridges are crossed, but the blockades are lifted as the story progresses, allowing the player to traverse between islands. \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" takes place in a different storyline and timeline from the previous games in the series. However, the game takes place in the same canon as its expansion packs, \"\" and \"\", and its successor, \"Grand Theft Auto V\". Most of the setting would be later used for the handheld game \"\", with the exception of Alderney.\n\nNiko Bellic, an Eastern European, arrives in Liberty City aboard a cargo ship, the \"Platypus\", to reunite with his cousin Roman, pursue the American Dream, and search for the man who betrayed his unit in a war fifteen years prior. Upon arrival, however, Niko discovers that Roman's tales of riches and luxury were lies concealing struggles with gambling debts and loan sharks, and that Roman lives in a dirty apartment in Broker rather than a mansion. While carrying out some jobs for Roman's taxi company, Niko meets and befriends several residents in Broker, including Little Jacob, an underboss of the Yardies, and Michelle, with whom Niko quickly enters a relationship.\n\nNiko is forced to work for Vlad Glebov, Roman's Russian loan shark, but eventually kills him after learning he slept with Roman's girlfriend, Mallorie. In retaliation, Niko and Roman are kidnapped by Liberty City Bratva members on orders of Mikhail Faustin and his deputy Dimitri Rascalov. Not bothered by Vlad's murder, Faustin hires Niko, who quickly discovers Faustin's true nature after being ordered to kill the son of Kenny Petrović, the most powerful man in the Bratva. When Petrović threatens retaliation, Dimitri convinces Niko to assassinate Faustin in order to prevent a gang war. When Niko meets with Dimitri to collect on the hit, Dimitri brings his former employer Ray Bulgarin instead, who accuses Niko of stealing from him a few years earlier. When Niko denies the allegation, a firefight ensues, allowing Dimitri and Bulgarin to escape.\n\nNiko and Roman are immediately forced to flee to Bohan after their apartment and taxi company are burned down by Dimitri's men. However, things go poorly as well in Bohan: Dimitri's men kidnap Roman in an attempt to lure out Niko, who rescues Roman. Furthermore, Michelle reveals herself as a government agent actually named Karen, and entraps Niko into working for her company, known only by its cover: United Liberty Paper. Niko assassinates several known or suspected terrorists for the agency in exchange for clearing his criminal record and assistance in finding the traitor of his unit. Niko and Roman's fortunes suddenly improve when the latter receives a large amount of money from an insurance claim he made on his destroyed business. Using the money, Roman buys an apartment in Algonquin, then restarts his taxi company. He also proposes to Mallorie, who accepts. \n\nLooking to secure a better lifestyle for himself and Roman, Niko works for various individuals in Liberty City's underworld, including drug dealers, the Irish Mob, and several Mafia families. He becomes acquainted with small-time Irish mobster Patrick McReary, whom he befriends and helps with a bank robbery, as well as Pegorino Family caporegime Ray Boccino, whom he assists with a major diamond deal that goes awry. Boccino later introduces Niko to Don Jimmy Pegorino, who assigns him work. After suspecting Ray of being an informant, Pegorino orders Niko to kill him.\n\nEventually, the Paper tracks down the man responsible for Niko's unit's betrayal, Darko Brevic, and brings him into Liberty City for Niko to decide his fate. Having achieved closure on his past, Niko is summoned by Pegorino, who demands one final favour: to help with an extremely lucrative deal on heroin in collusion with Dimitri. Niko must either strike a deal with Dimitri, or exact revenge on him.\n\nShould Niko go through with the deal, Dimitri again betrays him and takes the heroin for himself. At Roman's wedding, an assassin sent by Dimitri unintentionally kills Roman with a stray bullet. Aided by Little Jacob, a devastated and vengeful Niko kills Dimitri, who in turn killed Pegorino. Should Niko choose to exact revenge, he storms the \"Platypus\" and fights his way through Dimitri's men, ultimately killing him. At Roman's wedding, Pegorino, furious after Niko's betrayal, targets Niko in a drive-by shooting, but ends up accidentally killing Niko's new girlfriend, Patrick's sister Kate. Aided by Little Jacob and Roman, Niko kills Pegorino, who had been targeted by the Liberty City underworld.\n\nWork on \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" began in November 2004, shortly after the release of \"\" (2004). Around 150 game developers worked on \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", led by core members of the team that previously worked on \"Grand Theft Auto III\" (2001). For the game, Rockstar used their proprietary Rockstar Advanced Game Engine (RAGE), which was previously used in \"Rockstar Games Presents Table Tennis\" (2006), in combination with the Euphoria game animation engine. Instead of pre-written animations, Euphoria uses procedural animation to control the way the player moves, enabling character movements to be more realistic. The Euphoria engine also enables NPCs to react in a realistic way to the player's actions. In one preview, a player knocked an NPC out of a window and the character grabbed onto a ledge to stop himself from falling. The game also uses middleware from Image Metrics to facilitate intricate facial expressions and ease the process of incorporating lip-synching. Foliage in the game is produced through SpeedTree.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" sees a shift in the series to a more realistic and detailed style and tone, partly a result of the transition to consoles which offered high-definition graphics and the new and improved capabilities of such consoles. Rockstar co-founder Dan Houser said \"what we're taking as our watchword on [\"Grand Theft Auto IV\"] is the idea of what high definition actually means. Not just in terms of graphics, which obviously we are achieving, but in terms of all aspects of the design. [...] You know, trying to make something more realistic, more held together, but still retaining the overall coherence that the other games had.\" Art director Aaron Garbut said one of the reasons they decided to set the game in New York because \"we all knew what an amazing, diverse, vibrant, cinematic city it is,\" and since they were hoping the push the \"detail, variety and life\" to a high level, it seemed that \"basing the game in a city so synonymous with these things was a great fit.\" Dan Houser added \"because we were working in high definition and we knew we'd need a shitload of research, we wanted to be somewhere where we had a foothold.\" The developers consciously avoided creating a block for block recreation of New York City; Dan Houser said \"what we've always tried to do is make a thing that looks real and has the qualities of a real environment, but is also fun from a game design perspective.\" The \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" rendition of Liberty City is far more detailed and larger in size than \"Grand Theft Auto III\" and other cities seen in earlier entries in the series. Although smaller than San Andreas, the main setting for \"Grand Theft Auto IV\"'s predecessor \"\", Liberty City is comparable to it in terms of scope when \"the level of verticality of the city, the number of buildings you can go into, and the level of detail in those buildings\" are taken into account. The goal for Liberty City was to have no dead spots or irrelevant spaces, such as the wide open deserts in San Andreas. To achieve a realistic environment, the Rockstar North team, based in Edinburgh, Scotland, made two trips to New York for research, one at the start of the project (which was done with every previous \"Grand Theft Auto\" game) and another smaller one further into development. A full-time research team, based in New York, handled further requests for information ranging from the ethnic minority of a neighbourhood to videos of traffic patterns.\n\nThe story of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was written by Dan Houser and Rupert Humphries. Unlike previous \"Grand Theft Auto\" games which have a strong cultural or cinematic influence, \"[\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" doesn't] really have any cinematic influences\", as explained by Houser. \"We were consciously trying to go, well, if video games are going to develop into the next stage, then the thing isn't to try and do a loving tribute or reference other stuff. It's to reference the actual place itself\". Houser also said, \"In terms of the character, we wanted something that felt fresh and new and not something that was obviously derived from [a] movie. [...] Maybe [we] could do something ourselves that would live alongside that stuff\".\n\nMusic supervisor Ivan Pavlovich said \"[we had] to pick the songs that make New York today what it is, but make sure they won't feel dated by the time the game comes out.\" The developers contacted over 2,000 people in order to obtain recording and publishing rights. They even hired a private investigator to locate the relatives of late Skatt Bros. member Sean Delaney to license the band's song \"Walk the Night\". Citing sources close to the deals, \"Billboard\" reported that Rockstar paid as much as $5,000 per composition and another $5,000 per master recording per track. Developers originally considered letting players purchase music by going to an in-game record shop and for Niko to have an MP3 player, but both ideas were cut. DJ Green Lantern produced tracks exclusively for the game's hip-hop radio station The Beat 102.7. Record label owner and record producer Bobby Konders, who hosts the in-game radio station Massive B Soundsystem 96.9, went through the extra effort of flying to Jamaica to get dancehall artists to re-record tracks to make references to the boroughs of Liberty City.\n\nThe Corporate Vice-President of Microsoft's Interactive Entertainment Business division, Peter Moore, announced at E3 2006 that the game would appear on Xbox 360, by rolling up his sleeve to reveal a \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" temporary tattoo. Rockstar Games initially appeared to be committed to the original 16 October 2007 release date; however, Wedbush Morgan analyst Michael Pachter suggested that Take-Two may choose to delay the release of the game in order to boost its financial results for 2008 and to avoid competing with the release of other highly anticipated titles, such as \"Halo 3\". Rockstar responded by saying that \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was still on track for release in \"late October\". On 2 August 2007, Take-Two announced that \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" would miss its original release date of 16 October 2007 contrary to their previous statements, and would be delayed to their second fiscal quarter (February–April) of 2008. In a later conference call with investors, Take-Two's Strauss Zelnick attributed the delay to \"almost strictly technological problems ... not problems, but challenges.\" It was later revealed that technical difficulties with the PlayStation 3 version of the game contributed to the delay, along with storage problems on the Xbox 360. On 24 January 2008, Take-Two announced that \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" would be released on 29 April 2008. As the release date approached, Rockstar Games and Take-Two marketed the game heavily through various forms, including television ads, Internet video, billboards, viral marketing, and a redesigned website. A special edition of the game was also released for both the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. At a Take-Two shareholder meeting on 18 April 2008, Take-Two CEO Ben Feder announced that \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" had already \"gone gold\" and was \"in production and in trucks en route to retailers\". The game was eventually released for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 video game consoles in Europe, North America, and Oceania on 29 April 2008, and in Japan on 30 October 2008. Overall, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" took over 1000 people and more than three and a half years to complete, with a total cost estimated at approximately $100 million, making it, at the time, the most expensive video game ever developed.\n\nOn 6 August 2008, Rockstar announced that a Microsoft Windows version of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was in development by Rockstar North and Rockstar Toronto. The game was originally announced for release in North America on 18 November 2008 and in Europe on 21 November 2008 but was later pushed back to 2 and 3 December 2008, respectively. It contains expanded features, including traffic density control, draw distance configurations and a replay editor. The replay editor allows players to record and edit game clips, videos can then be uploaded to Rockstar's Social Club website. It utilised Games for Windows - Live for online play and supported 32 players for multiplayer. SecuROM protection is utilised and a one time online activation is required in order to play the game. The game was made available on Steam on 4 January 2009. Rockstar was forced to temporarily remove the game for sale from Steam in January 2020 due to the inability to generate new keys using Games for Windows – Live. All versions of the game will be replaced with \"Grand Theft Auto IV: Complete Edition\" on 19 March 2020, which includes the base game and episodic content; all previous owners of the digital game will be updated with \"Complete Edition\". The new version will not support multiplayer or leaderboard features, and three of the radio stations will be \"temporarily\" unavailable due to music licensing rights.\n\nOn 9 February 2017, the Xbox 360 version of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was made available for backwards compatibility with the Xbox One.\n\nTwo episodic packs for \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" have been released. These two episodes were first released separately, exclusively on Xbox Live, as downloadable content (DLC), requiring the original game to play. They were later released together as part of a standalone game, titled \"Grand Theft Auto: Episodes from Liberty City\", which does not require the original game to play. Dan Houser stated the episodes shows \"a different side of Liberty City\".\n\nThe first expansion, titled \"\", was originally released on 17 February 2009. The protagonist of \"The Lost and Damned\" is Johnny Klebitz, a member of Liberty City's biker gang The Lost. The second expansion, titled \"\", was released on 29 October 2009. The protagonist of \"The Ballad of Gay Tony\" is Luis Fernando Lopez, an assistant to nightclub owner Tony \"Gay Tony\" Prince, and follows him as he resolves the conflicts of his friends, family, and boss.\n\nJeronimo Barrera, vice-president of product development for Rockstar Games, said that the episodes were experiments because the team were not sure that there was enough users with access to online content on the Xbox 360. Take-Two Interactive's chief financial officer, Lainie Goldstein, revealed that Microsoft was paying a total of $50 million for the first two episodes. In January 2010, Rockstar announced that the DLC as well as \"Episodes From Liberty City\" would be made available for the PlayStation 3 and Microsoft Windows on 13 April 2010 in North America and 16 April 2010 in Europe.\n\nBoth episodes were released for PlayStation 3 and Microsoft Windows on 13 April 2010 in North America and on 16 April 2010 in Europe. \"Grand Theft Auto IV: The Complete Edition\", including the original \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" and its two episodic expansions, was listed on online stores, before being confirmed by Rockstar. The compilation was released on PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, and Windows on 26 October 2010 in North America, and 29 October in Europe. The Xbox 360 versions of both episodes were made backwards compatible with the Xbox One on 9 February 2017.\n\nLike previous games in the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" features a soundtrack that can be heard through radio stations while the player is in a vehicle. Liberty City is serviced by 19 radio stations, three of which are talk radio stations. The other stations feature music from a large range of genres, including tracks from Genesis, David Bowie, Bob Marley, The Who, Queen, Kanye West and Elton John.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" uses a similar music system to that of \"\" (2004). In other games in the series, each radio station was essentially a single looped sound file, playing the same songs, announcements and advertisements in the same order each time. With the radio stations in \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", each sound file is held separately, and sequenced randomly, allowing songs to be played in different orders, announcements to songs to be different each time, and plot events to be mentioned on the stations. Certain songs are also edited to incorporate references to the fictional Liberty City.\n\nA variety of real celebrities provide voices for the radio DJs in the game, including fashion designer Karl Lagerfeld, musicians Iggy Pop, Femi Kuti, Jimmy Gestapo and Ruslana, and real-life radio talk show host Lazlow Jones. \"Saturday Night Live\" actors Bill Hader and Jason Sudeikis appear on the liberal and conservative radio talk shows respectively, with Fred Armisen playing several guests on Lazlow's \"Integrity 2.0\". Numerous other comedians, including Jim Norton, Patrice O'Neal, Rick Shapiro, and Robert Kelly, as well as radio hosts \"Opie and Anthony\" appeared on the radio and/or as characters in-game.\n\n\"The Music of Grand Theft Auto IV\" is a 2008 soundtrack packaged with the special edition of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\". The disc contains several soundtrack selections. The soundtrack features several genres, from hip hop to rock and reggae. Several artists re-recorded their songs to make references to in-game locations. Two songs, \"Liberty City: The Invasion\" and \"No Sex for Ben\", were composed specifically for the game and the soundtrack. The theme song of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", \"Soviet Connection\", was composed by Michael Hunter, who previously composed the theme for \"\".\n\nNear the ten-year anniversary of the game's release in April 2018, Rockstar issued patches to all versions of the game to remove some of the licensed songs from the game which they no longer have licensing rights for. Rockstar said this was primarily from the Russian-themed radio station, \"Vladivostok FM\", and that they were to replace these songs with new music in the patch. The songs were restored in an August 2019 update without clarification from Rockstar Games.\n\n\"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was released to critical acclaim. Metacritic, which assigns a normalised rating in the 0–100 range, calculated an average score of 98, indicating \"universal acclaim\". It is the second-highest rated game on the site, only behind \"\". Reviewers heavily praised the game's narrative, open world design and combat system. Hilary Goldstein of IGN felt that the game \"sets a new benchmark for open-world games\", and Andrew Reiner of \"Game Informer\" wrote that the game \"completely changes the landscape of gaming\".\n\nReviewers lauded the open world design, some further complimenting the freedom that it allows the player. Seth Schiesel of \"The New York Times\" named the city the \"real star\" of the game. \"Official Xbox Magazine\"s Hicks was impressed by the city, attributing this to the game's AI. Robinson of \"Computer and Video Games\" considered the environment believable, and felt that the world was \"utterly unmatched\". Goldstein of IGN felt that, although Liberty City is inspired by New York, it is not beholden to it. He wrote that the city \"exists in its own universe and rightfully so\". Crispin Boyer of 1UP.com directed praise at the city's \"breathtaking vistas, incredibly varied scenery, and lived-in look.\" Conversely, Jesse Costantino of Game Revolution felt that the game lacked important features common in other open world games.\n\nReviewers praised the game's narrative. IGN's Goldstein accepted that the darker tones to the story, a break from series tradition. Jon Hicks of \"Official Xbox Magazine\" felt surprised by the amount of depth to the story. Reiner of \"Game Informer\" wrote that the level of freedom in the game contributed to his enjoyment of the story. The morality choices faced by players throughout the narrative were also welcomed. 1UP.com's Boyer felt that they gave the game an element of \"replayability\". Eurogamer's Tom Bramwell considered the morality choices a fair substitute over \"bosses with large health bars\".\nThe game's characters—particularly Niko—received positive reactions from critics. Hicks of \"Official Xbox Magazine\" and Andy Robinson of \"Computer and Video Games\" both called Niko \"charismatic\" and \"likeable\", stating that they prefer him over previous protagonists of the series. George Walter of GamesRadar praised the depth of the character, and IGN's Goldstein felt that the character of Niko feels relatable when faced with difficult decisions. Jeff Gerstmann of Giant Bomb felt that Niko was a \"the only thing that mattered to [him]\" as he progressed through the story, with the character becoming one of his favourite features of the game. Schiesel of \"The New York Times\" named Niko one of the most realised video game characters attributing this to the game's script, while 1UP.com's Boyer commended the use of character bonding during the game's missions.\n\nMany reviewers found the combat system was more responsive than in previous games, particularly praising the addition of the cover system. Justin Calvert of GameSpot wrote that the cover system makes the game's combat a \"huge improvement\" over previous games. Reiner of \"Game Informer\" agreed, writing that the targeting system makes players feel responsible for all deaths. IGN's Goldstein praised the fluidity of the cover system, and felt that the auto aim mechanic is a \"great help in larger battles\". GamesRadar's Walter wrote that the cover system has \"paved the way to a new style of mission\". David McComb of \"Empire\" called the combat \"sharp and instinctive\", and Hicks of \"Official Xbox Magazine\" felt that the cover system allows players to execute an attack plan. In addition to the combat system, most reviewers noted the vehicle handling was more realistic than in previous games. Robinson of \"Computer and Video Games\" felt that the vehicle handling echoed realism, while Hicks of \"Official Xbox Magazine\" called the vehicle selection \"excellent\". Costantino of Game Revolution praised the improvement of the game's mechanics, particularly the physics engine's advanced vehicle and character animations.\n\nReviewers praised the sound design. Goldstein of IGN praised the actors' performances and the use of licensed music. GameSpot's Calvert and GamesRadar's Walter also commended the licensed music, the latter admiring the humour of the radio's talk stations. Michael Pinson of The Pro Audio Files praised the separate features of the game's sound design—including the city's ambiance, licensed music, character dialogue, and vehicle and weapon sound effects—applauding the developer's use of uniting the features together. Carolyn Gudmundson of GamesRadar also retroactively praised the game's soundtrack, commending its suitability to the game's setting.\n\nThe game's online multiplayer mode received positive reactions from critics. Reiner of \"Game Informer\" praised the character customisation available in the multiplayer mode, and noted that it runs \"just as smoothly\" as the single-player game. 1UP.com's Boyer called the multiplayer modes \"excellent\", and IGN's Goldstein named it one of the best. \"Official Xbox Magazine\"s Hicks dubbed the multiplayer as \"hugely entertaining\", while Walter of GamesRadar praised the \"seamless\" process of entering a multiplayer match. Giant Bomb's Gerstmann and Game Revolution's Costantino felt divided about the multiplayer, the latter naming it a \"fantastic idea\", but feeling as though connectivity problems resulted in a \"broken\" experience.\n\nWhen \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" was released to Microsoft Windows in December 2008, it received generally positive reviews. Metacritic calculated an average score of 90 out of 100, indicating \"universal acclaim\", based on 40 reviews. Reviewers liked the enhanced visuals and the additional features, but criticised the port for its inferiority over the console versions.\n\nThe in-game features added in the port were well received. The addition of the Video Editor was met with positive reactions; GameSpot's Calvert called it \"a great way to get creative\", while Kieron Gillen of Eurogamer criticised the unpredictability in its timing. Critics also praised the addition of the customisable radio station, which allows players to listen to their own choice of music; Tom Chick of 1UP.com named it the best feature of the port, and Steven Hopper of \"GameZone\" called it a \"great touch\". The port's upgrade to 32 concurrent players in the online multiplayer mode, as opposed to the console version's 16 players, was also met with positive feedback; Eurogamer's Gillen said that the \"possibility for mayhem... increases\", while Will Tuttle of GameSpy felt that the player increase \"changes the action significantly\".\n\nThe port's enhanced visuals were commended by many reviewers. \"GameZone\" Hopper considered the visuals an improvement over the original versions. Andy Robinson of \"Computer and Video Games\" called the visuals \"impressive\", while Tom Orry of \"VideoGamer.com\" called them \"superb\". Conversely, the port's system requirements, considered difficult to run with advanced settings, received criticism. Eurogamer's Gillen said that, though the Windows version is \"the most attractive version\", it's \"annoyingly fiddly to get there\". GameSpy's Tuttle was able to overlook the demanding system requirements in exchange for the game's other features.\n\nFollowing the critical acclaim it received on its release, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" has received various awards from various critics and publications. It received several Game of the Year awards, from gaming media outlets such as Spike TV, Giant Bomb, Kotaku, and GameTrailers, as well as mainstream publications, like \"The New York Times\", the \"Los Angeles Times\", and \"Time\" magazine. \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" also received seven nominations at the 5th British Academy Video Games Awards (BAFTA Games Awards), and three nominations at the 9th Annual Game Developers Choice Awards, but did not win any of them.\n\nWithin twenty-four hours of its release, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" sold over 3.6 million copies, equating to approximately $310 million in revenue. Within a week, it generated more than $500 million in worldwide revenue, equating to approximately 6 million copies sold for Take Two. The numbers surpassed analysts' expectations for the title. After one month of availability, the game had sold over 8.5 million copies. It broke three Guinness World Records on 13 May 2008: highest grossing video game in 24 hours, highest revenue generated by an entertainment product in 24 hours, and fastest-selling video game in 24 hours. On 11 March 2011, Take-Two announced that the game had sold over 20 million copies, with the \"Grand Theft Auto\" series surpassing a collective total of 100 million copies. As of July 2013, the game has sold over 25 million copies. All sales records broken by \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" were beaten by its successor, \"Grand Theft Auto V\", upon release.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the game became the fastest-selling game of all time, selling over 631,000 copies in twenty-four hours. This broke the record set by \"\" at 501,000 copies over the same period. During the first five days of availability, the game sold over 927,000 copies in the United Kingdom. The game's Xbox 360 version ultimately received a \"Diamond\" sales award from the Entertainment and Leisure Software Publishers Association (ELSPA), indicating sales of at least 1 million copies in the United Kingdom. ELSPA awarded the game's PlayStation 3 version their \"Double Platinum\" certification, to mark sales of at least 600,000 copies in the country. In the United States, \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" sold 2.85 million units in its first five days. By the end of 2008, the game had sold over 5.18 million copies in the US. In its first four days of availability in Japan, it sold 133,000 copies on the PlayStation 3 and 34,000 on the Xbox 360, according to Media Create.\n\nIn the first week of availability, the Windows version of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" debuted at seventh place on the weekly charts; by the second week, it had left the top-ten. Based on unique user counts, the game was the most played Games for Windows – Live game in 2009 and 2012, and the second-most played in 2011.\n\nPrior to and since the release of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", the game had been subject to a great deal of controversy, as was the case with previous \"Grand Theft Auto\" titles. Figures including George Galloway, Jack Thompson and Hillary Clinton have criticised the game, as have organisations including New York City officials and Mothers Against Drunk Driving (MADD). MADD asked ESRB to change the rating of the game from \"M\" (for ages seventeen and up) to \"AO\" (for adults only) due to the player's ability to drive under the influence of alcohol.\n\nThe initial version of \"Grand Theft Auto IV\" released in Australia and New Zealand was pre-censored by Rockstar to allow the game to meet the perceived requirements of the Australian classification system. However, the game was resubmitted to the New Zealand OFLC by Stan Calif, a 21-year-old student who was unhappy that New Zealand received an edited version of the game as a result of Australian censorship laws. The unedited version was subsequently given an R18 rating and cleared for sale in New Zealand. For the PC release, the uncensored version of the game was awarded MA15+ in Australia. Following the release of \"The Lost and Damned\", Rockstar distributed a patch which uncensored the Australian console version.\n\nThere have been reports in the United Kingdom and the United States of crimes perpetrated against people purchasing \"Grand Theft Auto IV\", as well as employees of stores selling the game. One of these incidents, an attack near a Gamestation store in Croydon, London, was later reported to be an unrelated argument between two groups of people leaving a pub and the story has been referred to as a \"media panic.\" Six teenagers were later arrested in June 2008 after engaging in a crime spree in New Hyde Park, New York, assaulting and robbing several people, and attempting a carjacking. According to police, the teens claimed that they were \"inspired\" by \"Grand Theft Auto IV\".\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "2300728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300728", "title": "Bit converter", "text": "Bit converter\n\nA bit converter, also known as a pelham rounding, is used on pelham bits to change them from two-rein bits to one-rein bits. It is a leather strap that attaches from the snaffle ring to the curb ring, onto which the rein is then attached to the loop made between the two rings. A bit converter is very helpful when riding the cross-country phase of eventing, so that a rider using a pelham does not have to keep track of two reins— especially helpful when riding drop fences, which require the rider to slip the reins and then gather them back up on landing. It is also commonly used by children, who may have not yet become skilled enough to handle two reins with ease. However, the bit converter diminishes the rider's ability to apply the curb and snaffle functions of the pelham independently and discriminately, and thus is usually considered unsuitable for other types of riding; it is illegal in hunt seat equitation, for example.\n\nA bit converter is also known in some places as 'roundings' or 'pelham roundings'.\n"}
{"id": "2300731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300731", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: H–I", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: H–I\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter H or I.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300744", "title": "Hemetsberger indole synthesis", "text": "Hemetsberger indole synthesis\n\nThe Hemetsberger indole synthesis (also called the Hemetsberger–Knittel synthesis) is a chemical reaction that thermally decomposes a 3-aryl-2-azido-propenoic ester into an indole-2-carboxylic ester.\n\nYields are typically above 70%. However, this is not a popular reaction, due to the lack of stability and difficulty in synthesizing the starting material.\n\nThe mechanism is unknown. However, azirine intermediates have been isolated. The mechanism is postulated to proceed via a nitrene intermediate.\n"}
{"id": "2300746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300746", "title": "Ipatovo, Stavropol Krai", "text": "Ipatovo, Stavropol Krai\n\nIpatovo () is a town and the administrative center of Ipatovsky District in Stavropol Krai, Russia, located on the Kalaus River about northeast of Stavropol, the administrative center of the krai. Population: \n\nIt was previously known as \"Chemrek\", \"Vinodelnoye\" (until 1935).\n\nIt was founded in 1860 as the settlement of Chemrek. It was later renamed Vinodelnoye (, lit. \"winemaking\") because there had been many state wine cellars. In 1935, the settlement was renamed Ipatovo in honor of Civil War hero P. M. Ipatov, who died here in 1918. Ipatovo was granted town status in 1979.\n\nWithin the framework of administrative divisions, Ipatovo serves as the administrative center of Ipatovsky District. As an administrative division, it is, together with three rural localities, incorporated within Ipatovsky District as the Town of Ipatovo. As a municipal division, the Town of Ipatovo is incorporated within Ipatovsky Municipal District as Ipatovo Urban Settlement.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300750", "title": "Double Seven", "text": "Double Seven\n\nDouble Seven is a studio album by The Upsetters.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee Perry; except where indicated\n"}
{"id": "2300751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300751", "title": "Bleu", "text": "Bleu\n\nBleu or BLEU may refer to:\n\nPeople\n\n"}
{"id": "2300758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300758", "title": "Goriška", "text": "Goriška\n\nGoriška is a historical region in western Slovenia on the border with Italy. It comprises the northern part of the wider traditional region of the Slovenian Littoral (\"Primorska\"). The name \"Goriška\" is an adjective referring to the city of Gorizia, its historical and cultural centre.\n\nThe region stretches from the Julian Alps (Mt. Triglav) in the north down the Soča River to Nova Gorica and the Karst Plateau in the hinterland of Trieste. It encompasses the following municipalities (from north to south):\n\nIt is entirely included in the Gorizia Statistical Region, except for the southernmost municipalities of Komen and Sežana, which are part of the Coastal–Karst Statistical Region.\n\nGoriška borders on Upper Carniola in the northeast and Inner Carniola in the east. In the south, it is confined by Slovenian Istria and the Trieste city limits. Together with the adjacent Italian provinces of Gorizia, Udine and Pordenone in the west, it may be considered part of the larger Friuli region.\n\nUpon the Slavic settlement of the Eastern Alps from about 600, Slavic tribes in contact with the neighbouring principality of Carantania moved into the Karst Plateau into the eastern Bassa Friulana, then part of the Lombard Duchy of Friuli. After Charlemagne had defeated the Kingdom of the Lombards at the 774 Siege of Pavia, the territory was incorporated into the Carolingian frontier March of Friuli. Margrave Berengar had himself crowned King of Italy in 888, while the adjacent marches of Carinthia (former Carantania) and Carniola had become part of East Francia upon the 843 Treaty of Verdun. When in 951 the East Frankish king Otto I of Germany invaded Italy, he seized the Friulan lands as part of the larger March of Verona, ruled by the Bavarian, later Carinthian dukes.\n\nIn 1077 King Henry IV of Germany enfeoffed the Patriarchs of Aquileia with Friuli; the town of Gorizia (\"Görz\") became the power base of their \"ministeriales\" from the comital Meinhardiner dynasty. They were able to acquire and consolidate an immediate home territory, the County of Görz, which they retained even after the Friulan territory of Aquileia was conquered by the Republic of Venice in 1420 and incorporated into the \"Domini di Terraferma\". When the House of Gorizia became extinct in 1500, their county fell to the House of Habsburg; with neighbouring Carinthia and Carniola it was administrated within Inner Austria.\n\nFrom 1754 onwards, the region belonged to the Princely County of Gorizia and Gradisca, a crown land of the Habsburg Monarchy. When in 1809 Napoleon created the short-lived French Illyrian Provinces, he drew the border with the re-established Kingdom of Italy in the west along the Soča/Isonzo River. After the 1815 Congress of Vienna, the entire crown land of Gorizia and Gradisca with Trieste and the March of Istria as well as Carinthia and Carniola formed the Austrian Kingdom of Illyria with its capital at Ljubljana (\"Laibach\").\n\nPart of the Austrian Littoral from 1849, the Soča Valley was the site of the fierce Battles of the Isonzo on the Italian front of Austria-Hungary during World War I. According to the 1919 Treaty of Saint-Germain-en-Laye, the whole Littoral region passed to the Kingdom of Italy. Together with the adjacent Inner Carniolan and Istrian lands, it was incorporated into the Julian March administrative region. The border with the Kingdom of Yugoslavia was confirmed in the 1920 Treaty of Rapallo. During the Fascist regime the Slovene minority was submitted to a violent policy of Italianization, against the resistance of the TIGR movement.\n\nAfter World War II, the present borders were established: most of the Slovene-inhabited areas were ceded to the newly established Yugoslav republic of Slovenia, while the town of Gorizia itself with Gradisca and the territory downstream the Isonzo River to the Adriatic coast were left to Italy.\n\nWell-known people from the region include \n\n"}
{"id": "2300766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300766", "title": "Pico Rivera Sports Arena", "text": "Pico Rivera Sports Arena\n\nThe Pico Rivera Memorial Sports Arena is a multipurpose arena located in Pico Rivera, California in the United States. It can seat a range of 5000 to 6250 patrons, depending on the event configuration. \n\nThe arena is used for concerts, rodeos, professional wrestling and boxing. Notably, it used to host Circus Vargas during their tour of the West Coast. Famous for hosting many presentations of Antonio Aguilar, a Regional Mexican singer, and his family. Adjacent to Bicentennial Park is the 6,000 seat Sports Arena. Famous for its Mexican rodeos (charreadas & jaripeos) and Latin entertainment, the Pico Rivera Sports Arena is a popular recreation spot for the Los Angeles area Hispanic community. This facility was built in 1979 and is reputed to be the largest Mexican rodeo ring in the country. An average of 25 shows, preceded by a traditional Mexican rodeo, are held at the Sports Arena every year. \n\nAs a concert venue, the Pico Rivera Sports Arena can seat up to 6,250. With a diameter arena floor, the arena is modeled after a Mexican rodeo ring. The arena, located at Bicentennial Park, is dedicated to Pico Rivera residents who fought for and served the United States during every war up to the Vietnam War.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300769", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: J–K", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: J–K\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter J or K.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300771", "title": "My Sister, My Sitter", "text": "My Sister, My Sitter\n\n\"My Sister, My Sitter\" is the seventeenth episode of \"The Simpsons\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> eighth season. It originally aired on the Fox network in the United States on March 2, 1997. In the episode, Marge and Homer leave Lisa to babysit Bart and Maggie. Annoyed that his younger sister is his babysitter, Bart does everything he can to annoy her. When Bart is injured, Lisa must find him medical attention without spoiling her reputation as a good babysitter.\n\nThe episode was written by Dan Greaney and directed by Jim Reardon. The script was written to focus on the relationship between Bart and Lisa and the episode has further been used to discuss the difficulties in letting children babysit themselves. The episode received mostly positive reviews.\n\nInspired by \"The Baby-Sitters Club\" series of novels, Lisa decides to become a babysitter, but no one takes her seriously because of her age. When Maude is taken hostage in Lebanon, Ned must leave suddenly to get her released. In his haste, he agrees to let Lisa babysit Rod and Todd. Ned puts out the good word for Lisa, who experiences a business boom.\n\nInspired by the success of Baltimore's revamped wharf, the Springfield Squidport reopens and throws a gala. Homer and Marge attend, leaving Lisa to babysit Bart and Maggie. Bart is upset that his younger sister is his babysitter; Lisa thinks his childish antics warrant it. Bart torments Lisa by having a giant submarine sandwich delivered, hiring Krusty for a bachelor party, claiming that Lisa saw a UFO, dialing for a \"sisterectomy\", and feeding Maggie coffee ice cream for dinner.\n\nBart's pranks anger Lisa so much that she lunges at him, causing him to fall down the stairs, dislocating his shoulder and causing a large bump on his head. Bart realizes if Lisa fails to take him to a nearby hospital, her reputation as a babysitter will be ruined. To make his condition worse, Bart locks himself in his room and repeatedly hits his head on the door, eventually knocking himself unconscious. \n\nLisa tries to call for an ambulance, but the operator refuses to assist her due to Bart's earlier prank calls. Lisa considers asking Dr. Hibbert for help, but realizes that would ruin her reputation as a babysitter. Instead she takes Bart to Dr. Nick Riviera's clinic in a wheelbarrow, bringing Maggie along in a pet carrier because the coffee ice cream has overstimulated her. Lisa is unable to see the doctor due to a long queue in the waiting room.\n\nFrantic, Lisa tries to wheel Bart and Maggie to the hospital. She loses control of the wheelbarrow and it rolls down a cliff into a muddy river — in front of aghast onlookers at the Squidport. The crowd assumes Lisa is on drugs, has murdered Bart, and is about to drown the caged Maggie. Lisa reveals none of the crowd's suspicions are true, but her reputation is ruined.\n\nLater Bart, whose injuries have been treated, apologizes to Lisa for causing the ordeal and ruining her babysitting business. She forgives him, but feels bad for being called the \"World's Worst Babysitter\". Much to her delight, she receives babysitting requests from Dr. Hibbert and Ned Flanders because they cannot find any other sitters.\n\nThe episode was directed by Jim Reardon and written by Dan Greaney. Like numerous preceding episodes, \"My Sister, My Sitter\" deals with the relationship between Bart and Lisa. Greaney specializes in writing Bart and Lisa episodes from the perspective of a kid. Elaine E Sutherland, who is a member of the Law Society of Scotland's Family Law Sub-Committee and Professor of Child and Family Law at the Law School, Stirling University, used the episode to describe the potential problems of letting one of your kids babysit the rest. While one child may be mature enough to babysit, it is not certain that the other kids accept the babysitter's authority. According to Alan S. Brown and Chris Logan, the writers of the book \"The Psychology of the Simpsons: D’oh!\", the episode is an example of how feminine anger rarely solves the problem on \"The Simpsons\". “Here, Lisa’s rage and ongoing frustration contribute to her difficulty in making good decisions about what to do with her emotion,” they write. Keeping with the babysitter theme, there are cultural references to \"The Baby-Sitters Club\": Lisa reads book #14 - The Formula Formula, while Janey is on book #20 - The President's Baby Is Missing.\n\nThe idea of revamping the waterfront came from cities like Baltimore, who were always trying to fix formerly horrible places. Chris Turner, the author of the book \"Planet Simpson\", writes about the scene at the Squidport: \"The \"satirical\" setting seems almost documentary\". The Squidport is a local revitalization project, which recast a historic industrial area as a pedestrian mall. He calls this an example of how “hyper-consumer culture of Springfield moves front and center” On the waterfront, Rainier Wolfcastle opens a restaurant called \"Planet Hype\". This is a parody of the international theme restaurant franchise Planet Hollywood. Wolfcastle is a parody of Arnold Schwarzenegger, who launched Planet Hollywood along with Sylvester Stallone, Bruce Willis, Demi Moore and Whoopi Goldberg in 1991. According to Matt Groening, the show had written an entire episode around Planet Hollywood, which featured the voices of Schwarzenegger, Stallone, and Willis as The Three Stooges type of characters. The episode was never animated, because it turned out that it was only the publicist of Planet Hollywood's idea and the actors did not want to participate.\n\nIn its original broadcast, \"My Sister, My Sitter\" finished 47th in ratings in a tie with \"Melrose Place\" for the week of February 24 – March 2, 1997, with a Nielsen rating of 9.0, equivalent to approximately 8.7 million viewing households. It was the fifth highest-rated show on the Fox network that week. \n\nSince airing, the episode has received mostly positive reviews from television critics. The authors of the book \"I Can't Believe It's a Bigger and Better Updated Unofficial Simpsons Guide\", Warren Martyn and Adrian Wood, called it \"a clever episode, if a little disjointed — the two stories don't gel as well as normal.\" \n\nTim Raynor of DVDTown.com said that the episode \"is full of the usual, fun antics that you would expect from Bart or any of the other dumb Simpsons.\" \n\nDVD Movie Guide's Colin Jacobson said that \"the segments in which Lisa babysits the various kids in town are a delight\" and that the episode \"mixes wacky moments with reality as it places Lisa in a logical position. Her conflict with Bart creates realism and also brings out the comedy.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300775", "title": "Atlanta College of Art", "text": "Atlanta College of Art\n\nThe Atlanta College of Art (ACA) was a private four-year art college located in Atlanta, Georgia. Founded in 1905, it was the oldest art college in the Southeast until it was absorbed by Savannah College of Art and Design in 2006.\n\nIn 1905, the Atlanta Art Association helped establish an art college and museum that would later become the Atlanta College of Art and the High Museum of Art, respectively. In 1963, the college was incorporated into the Woodruff Arts Center on Peachtree Street in Midtown Atlanta, named for its primary benefactor, Robert W. Woodruff. The center opened in 1968, comprising ACA, the High Museum of Art, the Atlanta Symphony Orchestra and the Alliance Theatre.\n\nIn August 2005, the boards of trustees of the Woodruff Arts Center and the Savannah College of Art and Design (SCAD) formally approved the merger of ACA and SCAD. In June 2006, the two institutions combined operations at SCAD's Atlanta location. The merger was widely contested by many ACA students, faculty and members of the Atlanta arts community.\n\nIn 2002, the High Museum of Art announced an expansion plan for the museum that included a new dormitory for the college. Italian architect Renzo Piano was hired for the project. SCAD acquired this dormitory in its merger with ACA and named it \"ACA Residence Hall\" in honor of the college.\n\nThe college offered studies in the mediums of drawing, painting, printmaking, photography, sculpture, digital art, video and graphic design. The school also offered degrees in business and programs through the Georgia Artists Registry, ACA Gallery shows, community education classes for adults, and summer programs in the arts for children and teens.\n\nNotable alumni of the Atlanta College of Art include Courtney Adams, Radcliffe Bailey, Roe Ethridge, Steven Evans, and Kara Walker.\n"}
{"id": "2300777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300777", "title": "Toktogul Satylganov", "text": "Toktogul Satylganov\n\nToktogul Satylganov (, \"Toqtoğul Satılğan úlu/Toktogul Satylgan uulu\", توقتوعۇل ساتىلعان ۇۇلۇ; , \"Toktogul Satylganov\"; 25 October 1864 – 17 February 1933), born in Kushchusu, Khanate of Kokand, was the most famous of the Kyrgyz Akyns – improvising poets and singers. The Kyrgyz town of Toktogul in the Jalal-Abad Region is named in his honor. \n\nToktogul was a well-known poet and composer with the democratic views even during the Tsarist Russia's colonial era in Southern Kyrgyzstan (1876–1917).\n\nOn the eve of the revolt led by Muhammad Ali Madali, the Sufi ishan, the poet Toktogul was harshly criticizing local Kyrgyz lords in Ketmen-Tobe valley.\n\nMadali ishan, seeking to rid the area of the Russians and restore the formerly independent khanate of Khokand, called for \"holy war\", and led 2,000 men against the Tsarist Russia on 17–18 May 1898 (on 30–31 May 1898 in the Gregorian calendar). However, his force was blocked outside the city on Andijan by the Russian 20th Line Battalion and defeated. Of those 2,000, 546 were put on trial, and Madali and five of his lieutenants hanged.\n\nMost of the sentences people were Kyrgyz people in the Ferghana valley and mountainous areas in Chatkal, Aksy and Ketmen-Tobe in nowadays Southern Kyrgyzstan. Among them was a prominent poet-improviser and composer Toktogul Satylganov (1864–1933), who was jailed by a false accusation by his political foes in the Ketmen-Tobe valley about his alleged participation in the revolt. He returned from Siberia jail (in the village of Kuitun near the town of Irkutsk) in 1905 only.\n\nHis fame reached a high point in the Soviet era when his works were promoted by the state as a musician of the people and he was known throughout Kyrgyzstan simply as \"Toktogul\". This distinction was founded largely on his works in the pre-revolutionary era which were interpreted as reflecting the class struggle. Modern interpretations, however, suggest that they had more to do with clan rivalries. Despite this, he welcomed the revolution, writing \"\"What woman gave a birth to such a person like Lenin?\"\" in celebration. Even after the fall of the Soviet Union Toktogul's songs remain popular among Kyrgyz performers and many streets, parks, schools, and even his home town are named after him.\n\nTo\n\n"}
{"id": "2300779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300779", "title": "Byam Shaw School of Art", "text": "Byam Shaw School of Art\n\nThe Byam Shaw School of Art, often known simply as Byam Shaw, was an independent art school in London, England, which specialised in fine art and offered foundation and degree level courses. It was founded in 1910 by John Liston Byam Shaw and Rex Vicat Cole. In 2003 it was absorbed by Central Saint Martins College of Arts and Design.\n\nThe Byam Shaw was opened in May 1910 by John Liston Byam Shaw and Rex Vicat Cole with the name Byam Shaw and Vicat Cole School of Art. The teaching staff initially consisted of W. Dacres Adams, D. Murray Smith and C. Austin Cooper; additional lectures were given by Evelyn Eunice Pyke-Nott (Mrs. Byam Shaw), Kenneth Martin and Percival Silley.\n\nOther early members of the staff were Ernest Jackson, who was principal of the school from 1926 to 1940, Brian Thomas who was Principal from 1946-54, and the late Pre-Raphaelite painter Eleanor Fortescue-Brickdale. The original premises were at 70 Campden Street, London W8; the school moved in 1990 to larger premises in Archway.\n\nAmong those who studied at the Byam Shaw School of Art are artists such as Winifred Nicholson, Bernard Dunstan, Yinka Shonibare, Mona Hatoum, the stained glass artist Evie Hone and the wood-engraver Blair Hughes-Stanton, theatre designers including Maria Björnson, Laurence Irving and Stefanos Lazaridis, the inventor James Dyson, the actor John Standing and the musician Paul Simonon.\n"}
{"id": "2300780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300780", "title": "Return of the Super Ape", "text": "Return of the Super Ape\n\nReturn of the Super Ape is a reggae studio album produced by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry, credited to The Upsetters. The album was originally released in Jamaica in 1978 and was the last album by The Upsetters to be released before Perry closed down his Black Ark studio.\n\nThe album has been re-released on several different labels. In 1998, it was re-issued by Jet Star with five bonus tracks under a slightly different title, The Original Super Ape. The cover was by Lloyd Robinson.\n\nAll tracks composed by Lee \"Scratch\" Perry\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300782", "title": "Firefighter assist and search team", "text": "Firefighter assist and search team\n\nA firefighter assist and search team (FAST), also known as a rapid intervention team/rapid intervention crew/rapid intervention dispatch (RIT/RIC/RID), is a team of two or more firefighters dedicated solely to the search and rescue of other firefighters in distress. Firefighter Assist and Search Team personnel shall have no other operational assignment during any incident. Multiple alarm fires may require multiple FAST/RIC teams.\n\nThrough the late 1960s and early 1970s the London Fire Brigade introduced RIT procedures using EATL (emergency air transfer lines) and EASE (emergency air supply equipment). This consisted of designated firefighter search and rescue teams (termed \"emergency crews\") stationed at self-contained breathing apparatus (SCBA) control entry points, equipped with emergency SCBA specifically designed to be worn by unconscious, injured or trapped firefighters.\n\nThe National Fire Protection Association (NFPA) and the United States Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) have requirements for some type of FAST/RIT at structure fires. These standards require that a minimum of two fire fighters be standing by in full personal protective equipment (PPE) while other crew members are working in a hazardous atmosphere. The standards are the result of a series of incidents where fire fighters became lost, trapped or disoriented while fighting a structure fire without a FAST present.\n\nThe FAST concept is not universal, with many fire protection agencies training all personnel in rescue duties. Rescue teams are then designated based on apparatus order in the dispatch to a call in which standard operating procedures (SOPs) require that rescue teams be held at entry points. This is the basic concept of the two-in, two-out rule.\n\nNote: While all of these versions of the name for a firefighter rescue crew either have been used or continue to be used in several areas, the National Incident Management System (NIMS) has determined that rapid intervention crew (RIC) will be the standard term. Currently, U.S. federally required training programs, from DHS and FEMA, are in the process of standardizing many terms and procedures under NIMS.\n\nFAST members are normally equipped with some or all of the following:\n"}
{"id": "2300783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300783", "title": "New Pittsburgh Courier", "text": "New Pittsburgh Courier\n\nThe New Pittsburgh Courier is a weekly African American newspaper based in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. It is owned by Real Times.\n\nThe newspaper is named after the original \"Pittsburgh Courier\" (1907-65), which in the 1930s and 1940s was one of the largest and most influential African-American newspapers in the country, with a nationwide circulation of more than 350,000.\n\nAfter circulation declines in the 1950s and 1960s, the original \"Courier\" was purchased in 1965 by John H. Sengstacke, publisher of \"The Chicago Daily Defender,\" in 1966. He reorganized the paper under a new name — the \"New Pittsburgh Courier\" — to avoid paying several outstanding tax bills and invoices. He later commented:\n\nHe re-opened it in 1967 under the new name. The \"New Pittsburgh Courier\" joined Sengstacke's three other newspapers in a chain of prominent African-American publications, including the \"Defender\". In 1974 Sengstacke appointed Hazel B. Garland as the new editor-in-chief of the \"New Pittsburgh Courier\", making her the first African-American woman in history to be editor of a national newspaper. When asked about his decision, Sengstacke replied: \"I have supreme confidence in Hazel, and believe that she will continue to do a great job as editor-in-chief as she did as city editor. She has proven herself over the many years of dedication to the Courier and the Negro cause. She will be a guiding force in leading this paper to bigger and better things in the future.\" Two years later, the paper won the John B. Russwurm Award for the best national African-American newspaper.\n\nFollowing Sengstacke's death in 1997, what was then a four-paper chain was held in a family trust until 2003. It was sold that year for nearly $12 million to Real Times, a group of investors with several business and family ties to Sengstacke.\n\nAmong the new owners was Sengstacke's nephew Thomas Sengstacke Picou, who said in 2002 that among his plans for the \"New Pittsburgh Courier\" were more emphasis on in-depth features and arts, creating a web presence — which neither it nor the \"Defender\" had at the time — and a change in its political outlook from liberal to \"conservative independence\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300795", "title": "Bai Renfu", "text": "Bai Renfu\n\nBai Renfu (, c. 1226−1306), also known as Bai Pu (), was a renowned Chinese playwright of the Yuan Dynasty.\n\nHe wrote 16 plays, three of which are extant:\n\nHe also wrote a play about Emperor Xuanzong and Lady Yang Guifei:\n\nA scion of an important Jin dynasty family, Bai Renfu's grandfather held a post at the powerful Bureau of Military Affairs, and his father was a close friend of the poet Yuan Haowen. However, the defeat of the Jin dynasty by the Mongol Empire resulted in a major upheaval in social relationships. Nevertheless, Bo Renfu achieved honorary rank and an official position in the Mongol Yuan Dynasty as Minister of Protocol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300802", "title": "Iporã", "text": "Iporã\n\nIporã is a municipality in the North-West of the State of Paraná, approximately sixty kilometers from the border with Paraguay. Its population in 2004 was estimated to be about 14,000.\n"}
{"id": "2300814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300814", "title": "Fantasy Hotel", "text": "Fantasy Hotel\n\nFantasy Hotel (Traditional Chinese: ) is a TVB modern drama series broadcast in July 2005.\n\nThere are three tour guides, Kam Ji-Kit (Michael Tao), Yung Ka-Man (Melissa Ng), and Hon Shan (Wayne Lai) lead tours from mainland China. One day, unexpectedly, a friend Kam Kong-Hoi (Wu Fung), gives them his hotel to take care of. Suddenly, the three are bosses and need to improve the hotel for the sake of their friend. Along the way, Ka-Man develops feelings for Ji-Kit, but because of a misunderstanding, she tries to stop her growing feelings for him. When Ji-Kit eventually finds out how Ka-Man feels towards him, he tries to court her but Ka-Man is too afraid of getting hurt.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300817", "title": "Ljubljana Basin", "text": "Ljubljana Basin\n\nThe Ljubljana Basin () is a basin in the upper river basin of Sava. It is the most populated area in Slovenia and it is metropolitan area of Ljubljana. Its main rivers are the Sava, the Kamnik Bistrica and the Ljubljanica.\n"}
{"id": "2300820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300820", "title": "Dhulbahante", "text": "Dhulbahante\n\nThe Dhulbahante (, ) is a Somali clan family, part of the Harti clan which itself belongs to the largest Somali clan-family — the Darod. In Somalia, the Dhulbahante primarily settle in the three northern regions of Sool, Sanaag, and Togdheer, but they also have a significant presences in Jubaland, particularly in the city of Kismayo. In Ethiopia, they settle in the Dollo Zone specifically in the woredas of Boh, Danot and Werder.\n\nThe clan is known for its armed resistance against the British Empire and the historic role it assumed in support of the Dervish Movement which waged a bloody war against colonial powers from 1899 to 1920. Due to this legacy, the name \"Darawiish\" has almost become synonymous with this clan's name.\n\nThe extended formal name of the Dhulbahante clan is \"Said Saleh Abdi Mohamed Abdirahman bin Isma'il al-Jabarti\". The primary homeland of the clan straddles the Haud region and the Nugaal Valley, hence segments of the clan who settle in either plateau are colloquially referred to as the \"Reer Hawd\" and \"Reer Nugaaled\". Currently, the clan has 13 active Garaads (clan chiefs). The most senior Garaad of these traditional leaders is Garad Jama Garad Ali who succeeded his uncle Garad Abdiqani Garad Jama. The use of the traditional hereditary title of \"Garad\" (which is most widespread among the Dhulbahante), was first inaugurated by the great ancestor Garad Shirshore who previously served as a \"Ugaas\". Politically, all of the clan chiefs are anti-Somaliland except Garad Jama Garad Ismail who is tolerant of the presences of the Somaliland forces in Dhulbahante territory.\n\nThe clan boasts a heroic history of anti-colonial resistance. In a bloody war against the British Empire the Dhulbahante propelled the Dervish movement to defeat the empire in a series of military expeditions. To honor the Dervish freedom fighters, the name \"Daraawiish\" is now given to almost all regional paramilitaries in Somalia. This rebellion which caused the death of one-third of the population of the Somaliland protectorate, effected the Dhulbahante population most severely.\n\nDuring Mohamed Siad Barre's regime, the clan was part of a alliance of Darod clans that was presumed to dominate state authority in Somalia. The acronym MOD was used to refer to the alliance which was composed of the Marehan, Ogaden and Dhulbahante. The vast majority of Dhulbahante today are pro Somali unity and against Somaliland’s secessionist endeavour. In 1998, they established the State of Puntland with other Harti clans due the common kinship. It is based on the ethnic composition and clan ties to Puntland, that voters in Sanaag and especially Sool were decidedly less supportive of Somaliland’s 2001 referendum on the constitution and independence. Although the Dhulbahante community was split over the 2007 conflict, with some aligning with Somaliland and its troops in the area of Las Anod, in the Bo'ame Declaration of 2007 all Dhulbahante clan chiefs rejected Somaliland's secessionist agenda and demanded the withdrawal of its militia from the clans traditional territory.\n\nIn aftermath of the occupation of Las Anod in 2007, the clan became disillusioned with Puntland, consequently a new unionist movement which aimed to remove Somaliland from Dhulbahante territories emerged. The movement called the Unity and Salvation Authority of the SSC Regions of Somalia ()) was spearheaded by Saleban Essa Ahmed and founded in 2009. The most important traditional leaders who lent their support to the SSC Movement were Garad Jama Garad Ali, Garad Jama Garad Ismail, and Garad Ali Burale Hassan. In the Kalshale Conflict, Somaliland forces and SSC militia clashed in the Ayn region in 2011, whilst more clashes were reported to have occurred in 2012. In 2012, the SSC movement was replaced by Khatumo State after the Khaatumo II conference held at Taleh.\n\nUnder the leadership of Ali Khalif Galaydh, Khaatumo state commenced peace talks with Somaliland and subsequently the two entities reached an agreement at the town of Aynabo in October 2017.\n\nIn Somalia, the Dhulbahante almost exclusively inhabit the Sool region. Michael Walls on the Dhulbahante and Sool says:\n\nThe clan inhabits Taleh, most of Hudun and most of Las Anod districts. In a survey conducted in 2011 of Las Anod District 92.5% of the respondents identified as Dhulbahante whilst 2.5%, 1.5% and 1.3% identified as Hawiye, Bantu and Isaaq respectively. In the Sanaag region the clan is only present in the Erigavo district along with the Habr Yonis clan, whilst well represented in the regional capital of Erigavo. Similarly in Togdheer, the clan solely lives in the district of Buuhoodle. The district of Buuhoodle was made a region by the state of Puntland and its name was changed to Cayn in 2004. Hence, the popular abbreviation SSC which denotes the traditional Dhulbahante territories within Somalia. In Jubaland there is a long settled Dhulbahante trading community in the port city of Kismayo and its surrounding district.\n\nIn Ethiopia, the Dhulbahante clan settle in the Somali Regional State. They are present in the Dollo Zone, specifically in the woredas of Boh, Danot and Werder. In Kenya, there is a small but notable Dhulbahante community in the North Eastern Province.\n\nThe Dhulbahante exclusively settle in the northern Somali cities of Las Anod and Buuhoodle. Moreover they are well represented in the cities of Erigavo and Garowe.\n\n19th-century explorer C.J Cruttenden on the Dhulbahante and their horse breed:\n\nDervish forces mostly hailed from the Dhulbahante, similarly the majority of the movements followers belonged to this clan and to a lesser extent the Ogaden clan. The Dhulbahante in Buuhodle were particularly the first and most persistent supporters of the Dervish Movement. The Dervish Movement resisted colonial occupation, especially the British who were aided by certain Somali clans (including segments of the Dhulbahante). The Achilles heel of the British empire in the Somaliland Protectorate was the un-administered east, inhabited by the Dhubahante, Warsangali and a few sections of the Isaaq. In this light Douglas Jardine explains that British priority was to keep the former two clans neutral, as the British administration and its allied clans would not be able to resist them without outside aid.\n\nDespite this, the Chief of the Dhulbahante clan, Garad Ali Garad Mohamoud, did not want to be under British occupation nor under Dervish authority, instead he wanted to retain his autonomy as clan chief. The Garad and Sayyid Mohamed Abdullah Hassan had a heated altercation which concluded with Garad Ali supposedly saying:\n\nSubsequently, Hassan ordered the successful assassination of the Garad. As Douglas Jardine reports, Hassan took this action after the Garad reassured the British that their relations remained unchanged, although owing to the influence of Hassan his clan no longer obeyed his orders. Issa-Salwe says news of the assassination stunned the Somali clans, consequently Hassan was only left with his maternal clan, the Ali Geri of the Dhulbahante. According to John William Carnegie Kirk, all Dhulbahante clans sided with Sayyid Mohamed Abdullah Hassan, expect the three small sub-clans of Rer Hagar, Rer Wais Adan and Ba Idris who were considered friendly by the British. In his poem \"Hanfi iyo Hungri\", Hassan acknowledged the Dhulbahante as the true Dervish warriors:\nHawa beena Soomaalidaa, hadafka raacdaa leh.\n\nHadal ruma Daraawiishta iyo, weli hanoonaa leh.\nRaggii diinta hooyga u noqdiyo, hanad shirshooraa leh.\nIn 1904 Hassan attacked the Jama Siad clan and in 1908 the Dhulbahante raided the Dervish and looted their camels. Hassan sent a letter to the British Commissioner Cordeaux, requesting his camels be returned and Blood money be paid.\n\nExcerpt from Hassan's letter to Cordeaux :\nYour people, the Dolbahanta tribe, have killed fifteen of our men and looted eighty-four camels. I do not know if Abdulla Shahari reported this to you: if he did the fault lies with you; if not, I do hereby acquaint you of it. You are requested to restore to us our camels and the blood shed by your people \nIn 1912 the Dervish army compelled friendly segments of the Dhulbahante clan to retire to the British controlled territory to gain protection, Horace Byatt reported that 800 dhulbahante arrived in Berbera, stating that only 300 native infantry and 200 King's African Rifles were in Berbera and insufficient to hold off a Dervish attack.\n\nIn 1913 at the battle of Dul Madoba the Dervishes defeated the British. The Dervish forces under the leadership of Dhulbahante military commander Ismail Mire were attacked by the British expeditionary forces under the command of Richard Corfield. It is reported that the Dervishes previously looted herds from the Jama Siad, who subsequently agreed to assist the British in their attack. Thus, 300 Jama Siad warriors along with the Somaliland Camel Corps commanded by Corfield pursued and attacked the Dervishes at Dul Madoba. The British sustained heavy casualties and Corfeild was killed in battle, whilst the 300 Jama Siad warriors fled unscathed. \nAfter the 1920 Bombing campaign of the Taleh fort and the Dervish retreat into Ethiopia, Tribal Chief Haji Mohammad Bullaleh (Haji the Hyena), commanded a 3000 strong army that consisted of Habar Yunis, Habar Jeclo and Dolbahanta horsemen and pursued the fleeing Dervishes. They attacked Muhammad Abdallah Hassan and the Dervish army in the Ogaden region and defeated them, causing Hassan to retreat to the town of Imi. Haji and his army looted 60,000 livestock and 700 rifles from the dervishes. The Dervishes who fought colonial powers for 20 years in order to attain freedom for the Somali peninsula never recovered.\n\nAn historic summit was convened in Boocame from November 15 – November 23 of 2007, by the traditional leaders of the Dulbahante (Dhulbahante) sub-clan of the clan. The Dulbahante traditional chiefs issued an official communiqué on October 15, 2007 regarding the secessionist Somaliland region's militias’ aggression and occupation of Laascaanood (LasAnod), the regional capital of Sool, Sanaag and Cayn regions of Somaliland.\nAll 14 major traditional chiefs of the Dulbahante clan attended this summit. In addition to the traditional chiefs, there were many intellectuals (women & men), students and civic organizations from outside and inside of the country attending the summit. All chiefs unanimously signed declaration communiqué on November 22, 2007.\n\nThe communiqué states that the Dulbahante clan is not part of (and was never part of) and does not recognize the administration that calls itself \"Somaliland\" and that there are no agreements between Dulbahante clan and \"Somaliland\", in the past or the present. The communiqué also calls for an immediate end of hostility, return of customary peaceful co-existences among clans and an unconditional removal of the Somaliland militia from their territory. Finally, chiefs declared that the Dulbahante clan stands for the Somali unity.\n\nIn the anniversary of their historic summit in Boocame in November 2007, the Dulbahante Traditional Chiefs (SSC Traditional Leaders Council) reiterated their previous declaration (above) that they are not part of the Somaliland separatist movement. The council sent its pronouncement to the European Union, United Nations Agencies and all NGOs that operate within Somalia.\n\nThere is no clear agreement on the clan and sub-clan structures and many lineages are omitted. Within the Dhulbahante clan, according to the anthropologist I.M. Lewis, the Dhulbahante are divided into 50 groups which pay \"diyya\" (or blood money for their members). These are gathered into four lineages of unequal size: the Muuse Si'iid, who made up the majority of the clan \"circa\" 1960, and in turn is highly segmented into numerous lineages; the Ahmed Si'id also known as \"Hayaag\", which Lewis estimated to number 1,000 male members at the time, and the Mohamed Si'iid, and the Yuunis Si'iid, which he described as \"small, insignificant, and incapable of independent political action.\" The following summarized clan tree presented below is taken from John Hunt's \"A general survey of the Somaliland Protectorate (1944-1950)\":\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300828", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: L", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: L\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter L.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300829", "title": "São Francisco do Sul", "text": "São Francisco do Sul\n\nSão Francisco do Sul is a municipality in the Brazilian state of Santa Catarina. It covers an area of 540 km² (208 miles) and had an estimated population of 42,569 in 2011.\n\nIt was founded as a village by the Portuguese in 1658. Despite the date of its foundation, there's a previous record that a famous navigator left Honfleur, Normandy in France by the year of 1503 and arrived at São Francisco do Sul, at the Bay of Babitonga, Jean Binot Paulmier De Gonneville is also recognised by many historians as one of the first, if not the first, Europeans to arrive. It is situated on the northern end of the Island of São Francisco at the entrance to the Babitonga Bay.\n\nSão Francisco do Sul is an important part of the Brazilian infrastructure. It provides large bulk shipping facilities and is served by the major container shipping lines connecting with the South American east and west coasts, Africa, Asia, North and Central America, the Caribbean and Europe.\n\nDuring the past decade, São Francisco do Sul has become a popular tourism destination for South American and international guests.\nThe municipality contains the Acaraí State Park, created in 2005.\n\nSão Francisco do Sul is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300833", "title": "Journal of Endodontics", "text": "Journal of Endodontics\n\nThe Journal of Endodontics (JOE) is the official journal of the American Association of Endodontists and is published by Elsevier. It is a monthly journal that was established in 1975 and publishes scientific articles, case reports, and studies comparing different tools, materials, and methods used in endodontic treatment.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300838", "title": "Helen Bonchek Schneyer", "text": "Helen Bonchek Schneyer\n\nHelen Bonchek Schneyer (January 10, 1921 in New York City – July 16, 2005 in Barre, Vermont) was an American folk musician. She was raised Jewish in New York City. While a student at Columbia University, she was introduced to American folk music. She also sang Baptist spirituals.\n\nOver a sixty-year career, Schneyer worked with such influential artists as Pete Seeger and Woody Guthrie. Later in life, Schneyer frequently appeared on \"A Prairie Home Companion\" as well as at many folk festivals.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300840", "title": "Hunger and Thirst", "text": "Hunger and Thirst\n\nHunger and Thirst (French original title La Soif et la faim) is one of the last plays by Eugène Ionesco, premiered in Paris at Comedie-Francaise on February 28, 1966.\n\nThe play has one act divided into four periods. In the play, Ionesco depicts religion as an expression of conformism and of the alienation of idealism to the establishment. It was first produced in an English translation in the United States in April, 1967, by the Yale Dramatic Association.\n"}
{"id": "2300845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300845", "title": "Back Then", "text": "Back Then\n\n\"Back Then\" is a song by American rapper Mike Jones, released in February 2005 as the second single from his debut studio album \"Who Is Mike Jones?\". Peaking at number 22 on the Billboard Hot 100, the single gave him his first and only top 40 hit on that chart as a solo artist, as well as success on the Hot Rap Songs and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts at numbers 6 and 15 respectively. The music video was directed by Dr. Teeth was made for the single.\n\nThe song deals with the popularity and sexual attention rappers receive because of their money, contrasts, and the way Jones was treated before achieving success. The song is sometimes seen as a critique of effects of fame or hypergamy; conversely, it is often considered to present a misogynistic or chauvinistic attitude toward women. The following line, which is repeated many times during the song, sums up the general attitude of the lyrics: \"\"Back then hoes didn't want me / Now I'm hot hoes all on me.\"\" The song talks about Jones' life before fame, getting constant rejection from women he wanted to get attention from and giving them the same treatment now that he's a successful rapper.\n\nThe song is featured in the 2007 Xbox 360 video game \"\". Mike Jones is a playable character in the video game and provides his own voice and likeness.\n\nThe single became Jones' most successful single to date, peaking at #22 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The single became a success on both the Hot Rap Songs and Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs charts where it peaked at #6 and 15 respectively, while becoming a moderate hit on the Pop 100 chart where it peaked at number 45. The song was also a moderate success on the Hot Digital Songs chart, where it peaked at number 26 and eventually went Platinum, becoming Jones' second platinum single.\n\nDirected by Dr. Teeth (who directed most of Mike Jones' videos), the video looks at Mike Jones's life before he was famous, getting shut down by every woman he met and tried to get attention from, and how he reacts to those same women who passed him up only for them to be given the same treatment they gave to him. The video is bookended with a club concert that has fans saying his catchphrase, \"Who? Mike Jones!\" DJ Michael \"5000\" Watts makes a cameo appearance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300849", "title": "Cry Me a River (Justin Timberlake song)", "text": "Cry Me a River (Justin Timberlake song)\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is a song by American singer-songwriter Justin Timberlake for his debut solo album, \"Justified\" (2002). It was written by Timberlake and Scott Storch with producer Timbaland and was inspired by Timberlake's former relationship with singer Britney Spears. Jive Records released the song to contemporary hit and rhythmic radio in the United States on November 26, 2002, as the album's second single. Accompanied by an electric piano, beatbox, guitars, synthesizers, Arabian-inspired riffs and Gregorian chants, \"Cry Me a River\" is an R&B song about a brokenhearted man who moves on from his last girlfriend, who had cheated on him.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" received acclaim from music critics, who considered it a stand-out track on \"Justified\" and praised Timbaland's production. The song earned several lists of best of the year and the decade (2000s), while \"Rolling Stone\" included it on their 500 Greatest Songs of All Time at 484. It won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 ceremony. The song peaked at number three on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and Pop Songs charts and charted in the top ten in other countries. It was certified double platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and platinum by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI).\n\nFilmmaker Francis Lawrence directed the music video for \"Cry Me a River\" in Malibu, California. In the controversial video, Timberlake's character invades the home of his ex-lover and films himself having sexual relations with another woman. Spears alleged that the video was a publicity stunt, but Timberlake maintained that she did not inspire the production. The clip won the awards for Best Male Video and Best Pop Video at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" on his four major concert tours: The Justified World Tour (2003–04), Justified and Stripped Tour (2003), FutureSex/LoveShow (2007), and The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013–15). The song has been covered by various recording artists, including Kelly Clarkson and Taylor Swift.\n\nTimberlake and Scott Storch wrote \"Cry Me a River\" with Timbaland, who produced the song. Storch found working with Timberlake easy because of the song's meaning. Reporters believed its lyrics were inspired by Timberlake's romantic relationship with American recording artist Britney Spears, which ended in 2002. Timberlake told MTV News, \"I'm not going to specifically say if any song is about anybody. I will say writing a couple of songs on the record helped me deal with a couple of things. To me songs are songs. They can stem from things that completely happened to you personally or they can stem from ideas that you think could happen to you.\" In December 2011, Timberlake admitted that he had written \"Cry Me a River\" after an argument with Spears: \"I was on a phone call that was not the most enjoyable phone call. I walked into the studio and he [Timbaland] could tell I was visibly angry.\" Timbaland recalled, \"I was like, 'Man, don't worry about it' and he was like, 'I can't believe she did that to me' and he was like, 'You were my sun, you were my earth.'\"\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" was recorded at Westlake Recording Studios in Los Angeles by Senator Jimmy D, while Carlos \"Storm\" Martinez served as the assistant engineer. Jimmy Douglass and Timbaland mixed the song at Manhattan Center Studios in New York City. Timberlake arranged the vocals and was a backup singer alongside Timbaland, Marsha Ambrosius, Tye Tribbett and Greater Anointing. Storch compared Timberlake's vocals on \"Cry Me a River\" to R&B and rock singer Daryl Hall. Larry Gold provided the string arrangement and conducting, while Storch and Bill Pettaway played the clavinet and guitar, respectively.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" was released as the second single from \"Justified\". Jive Records serviced the song to contemporary and rhythmic radio in the United States on November 25, 2002. On December 23, three remixes were released as a 12-inch single in Canada and France. On January 5, 2003, the song was sent to urban contemporary radio stations in the US. It was released as a CD single in Germany on January 23. The single contains the album version of the song and the remixes on its 12-inch single release. A CD single, which included Johnny Fiasco's remix of the song and two additional remixes of \"Like I Love You\", was released on February 3 and 6 in the United Kingdom and Canada, respectively. \"Cry Me a River\" was released as a CD single in the US on February 18. The single features the album version of the song, its instrumental and four remixes.\n\nFollowing its release, there was media speculation that Spears had written a song as a response to \"Cry Me a River\"; she denied the rumors, explaining, \"You know, it's funny. I read that I wrote this song and I wrote these lyrics and that's not my style. I would never do that.\" Annet Artani, who co-wrote Spears' 2003 song \"Everytime\", stated that the song was written as a response to \"Cry Me a River\". When asked during an interview with Diane Sawyer on \"PrimeTime\" in 2003, if \"Everytime\" was about Timberlake, Spears responded, \"I'll let the song speak for itself.\"\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is an R&B song with an instrumentation that features clavinet, guitars, beatboxing, synthesizers, Arabian-inspired riffs and Gregorian chants. The instruments are arranged into what critics described as a graceful and mysterious melody. Jane Stevenson of \"Jam!\" said the single combines gospel and opera. Tyler Martin of \"Stylus Magazine\" enjoyed the way that the song unconventionally mixed a range of experimental sounds. According to Martin, the wave synth affects the real strings to create an unusual dissonance. The song's chorus devolves into a choral reading in which Timberlake pleads over the group. \"Cry Me a River\" finishes with a Timbaland vocal sample.\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" is written in the key of G minor, in \"alla breve\", with a tempo of 74 beats per minute. The song's vocal range spans from C to B. \"Billboard\" magazine critics called \"Cry Me a River\" a bittersweet song, in which Timberlake's \"familiar tenor belting\" is tempered with a soulful falsetto and a \"convincingly aggressive rock-spiked baritone\" rasp. David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" labeled the song \"a haunted, pained farewell\".\n\nLyrically, the song is about a brokenhearted man who moves on from his past. A \"Rolling Stone\" reviewer called the song a \"breakup aria\". According to Caroline Sullivan of \"The Guardian\", \"Cry Me a River\" stands out for its \"slow-building sense of drama\", which highlights Timberlake at his \"husky best\". The song begins with the phrase \"You were my sun, you were my earth\", which according to Timbaland was Timberlake's inspiration to write the song. Tanya L. Edwards of MTV News observed that Timberlake was wronged and said this is demonstrated by the lyrics: \"You don't have to say whatcha did / I already know, I found out from him / Now there's just no chance.\" The chorus contains the lines: \"Told me you loved me, why did you leave me all alone / Now you tell me you need me when you call me on the phone.\" \"Slant Magazine\"s Sal Cinquemani called Timberlake's 2007 single \"What Goes Around... Comes Around\" an ostensible sequel to \"Cry Me a River\" both lyrically and musically. Jason Lipshutz of \"Billboard\" stated that aside from the presence of Timbaland's \"fantastically cluttered production\", the difference between \"Cry Me a River\" and Timberlake's 2013 single \"Mirrors\" is clear: \"10 years ago, Timberlake was broken, and now he is whole\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" received acclaim from critics. Jane Stevenson of Jam! and Sal Cinquemani of \"Slant Magazine\" regarded it as a stand-out track from \"Justified\". Stephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic selected the song as a highlight in his review of \"Justified\". Peter Robinson of \"NME\" called it a \"twisted epic\" and \"an acidic, filthy little song teeming with spite and retribution, with Timbaland's pounding.\" \"Rolling Stone\"s Ben Ratliff viewed his production of \"Cry Me a River\" as exceptional. Denise Boyd of BBC Music felt that the song's lyrics play as large a role as Timbaland's production, unlike other songs on \"Justified\". David Browne of \"Entertainment Weekly\" concluded that the song is \"a genuine stunner\" that should leave Timberlake's fellow 'N Syncers concerned that he truly may not need them any more. John Mitchell of MTV News called \"Cry Me a River\" and \"What Goes Around... Comes Around\" \"kiss-off songs\", with Timberlake's revenge on Spears present throughout the lyrics. Idolator staff opined it is the sound of an artist who is \"relishing ripping up people's perceptions of him as a sweet-natured teen heartthrob.\" VH1's Emily Exton wrote, \"By stretching the boundaries of pop–and fusing it with notes of R&B, lots of electric goodness, and haunting choral vocals–Timberlake’s kiss-off song instantly becomes more poignant, a pointed reaction to the hurt he’s experienced by someone he once loved.\" According to \"Complex\", the song \"made people completely forget about 'N Sync and start asking what Timberlake would do next.\" The single won a Grammy Award for Best Male Pop Vocal Performance at the 2004 award ceremony. It was nominated for Song of the Year at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards.\n\nFor \"Pitchfork Media\" it was the 3rd best song of 2003. \"Rolling Stone\" ranked \"Cry Me a River\" at number 20 on their list of the 100 Best Songs of the 2000s; a columnist for the magazine wrote that the real inspiration behind the song was the formation of the Timberlake–Timbaland team, \"a match made in pop heaven\". In 2012, the magazine placed it at number 484 on their list of \"The 500 Greatest Songs of All Time\". VH1 ranked \"Cry Me a River\" at number 59 on their list of the 100 Greatest Songs of the 2000s. \"The Daily Telegraph\" listed the song at number 40 on the \"100 songs that defined the Noughties.\" In 2015, Spotify re-ranked \"Rolling Stone\"'s 500 Greatest Songs in two different lists. \"Cry Me a River\" ranked at number 14 on \"by all Spotify users\" and 10 on \"streams from millennial users\". In 2018, \"Rolling Stone\" ranked the song 46 on their list \"The 100 Greatest Songs of the Century – So Far\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" debuted at number 44 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the issue dated December 21, 2002, earning the Hot Shot Debut honor with 29.6 million audience impressions. On February 1, 2003, the single reached a peak of number three, becoming Timberlake's first solo single to reach that position. The song debuted on the US Pop Songs chart at number 37 in the issue dated December 14, 2002 and reached a peak of three on February 1, 2003. For the issue dated December 28, 2002, \"Cry Me a River\" debuted at number 75 on the US Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. It reached a peak of 11 on March 8, 2003. It also peaked at number two on the US Hot Dance Club Songs, becoming Timberlake's second top-three song, after his debut single \"Like I Love You\" reached number one. As of August 2003, remixes of the single have sold more than 61,000 units in the United States. As of 2018, the song has sold 1.2 million copies in the country.\n\nThe song debuted at number two on the Australian Singles Chart on March 9, 2003. It fell to number six in the following week. \"Cry Me a River\" became Timberlake's first top-three solo single on the chart. The song remained on the chart for 12 consecutive weeks. It was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments of 35,000 units. The single debuted at number 44 in New Zealand on March 9, 2003. After two weeks on the chart, it reached a peak of 11. It remained on the chart for 11 weeks.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, \"Cry Me a River\", debuted at number two on February 15, 2003. The next week it fell to number three, before returning to its original peak on March 1, 2003; it stayed on the chart for 13 weeks. The song has sold over 365,000 copies in the country as of 2015. It debuted at number 14 on the French Singles Chart on April 5, 2003. After three weeks, \"Cry Me a River\" peaked at number six, and it stayed on the chart for 21 weeks. It was less successful on the Italian Singles Chart, where it peaked at number 14 and stayed on the chart for four weeks. \"Cry Me a River\" also peaked at number five in Belgium (Wallonia), at number six in the Republic of Ireland and the Netherlands, at number seven in Belgium (Flanders), and at number 10 in Germany, Norway, and Sweden.\n\nThe music video for \"Cry Me a River\" was directed by Francis Lawrence, and filmed in Malibu, California, during the week of October 29, 2002. Lawrence created the video's concept and told MTV News, \"[Justin and I] had a conversation on the phone and all he said was he wanted to have some dancing in it, but to do my thing. He told me what the song was about, but in a [general way] as well. He just said it was a kiss-off song and so I came up with this idea and he went for it\". Lawrence added that he also included some details in the video, including a reference to Spears's tattoo, which Timberlake enjoyed. He explained that he and Timberlake did not mention names while creating the video, only discussing the song's general beats. Lawrence also revealed that executives of Jive Records were nervous about some aspects of the video, such as Timberlake's representation of a voyeur and the tone of some scenes he was portraying with a girl. \"That's the thing I liked most about this project, was that he was coming into it with a super clean-cut image with 'N Sync and he's such a nice guy and so handsome and what I was into doing was making him be a bit scary. Lurking around the house in the rain, throwing a rock through her window, being a peeping Tom, getting revenge and doing stuff that's not really what a nice guy does.\" The music video for \"Cry Me a River\" was released onto the iTunes Store on April 28, 2003.\nThe video begins with a blonde woman, played by model and actress Lauren Hastings (allegedly portraying Britney Spears), walking out of her house hand-in-hand with an unidentified man. The couple leaves in the woman's car (a silver Porsche) as Timberlake rolls down the window of a black Mercedes 500 W220, from which he and his friend have been watching the woman. Timberlake breaks into the house by throwing a rock through a window and proceeds through the woman's house, with anti-gravity jumps and slides, not causing any other visible damage, except for kicking a picture frame of the woman across the living room. Then he searches some drawers and finds a video camera, while the driver of the car, Timbaland, signals for his female accomplice in the back of the car, played by model Kiana Bessa, to go in. She enters the house and goes with Timberlake to a bedroom, where she starts to undress and kiss him while being filmed. They stay in the bedroom for a moment; then the accomplice exits the house but Timberlake stays. As the blonde woman returns, he follows her around the house and hides in a closet as she showers. He gets closer to her and touches the glass surrounding the shower. The blonde woman senses someone in the room and turns around, but Timberlake is gone. She leaves the bathroom and goes into her bedroom, where the video he made with his new lover plays on the television.\nPeter Robinson of \"NME\" wrote that the video shows \"what Justin looks like after he's had sex. Clue: he looks pretty good.\" According to Virginia Heffernan of \"The New York Times\", Timberlake channels the character Neo from \"The Matrix\" film series, \"pacing anxiously around wet and metallic interiors\". At the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards, the video for \"Cry Me a River\" won in the categories of Best Male Video and Best Pop Video. It had also been nominated for Video of the Year, Best Direction in a Video and Viewer's Choice.\n\nFollowing the release of the music video, \"Us Weekly\" ran a cover story titled \"Britney Vs. Justin: The War Is On\". Timberlake denied that Spears inspired the video, saying, \"The video is not about her. The video is about me.\" However, Spears told \"Rolling Stone\" in October 2003 that she received a call from Timberlake saying there would be a look-alike of her in his music video. She states that he reassured her by saying, \"Don't worry about it. It's not a big deal\". Spears, who had not seen the video, says she allowed him to do so but became infuriated after watching it. She recalled that when she asked why he had made a video about her, he replied, \"Well, I got a controversial video.\" She stated that it was a great publicity stunt, commenting, \"So he got what he wanted. I think it looks like such a desperate attempt, personally.\" After the release of Spears' video for \"Toxic\" (2003), Jennifer Vineyard of MTV News said her video \"[made] \"Cry Me a River\" look like child's play\".\n\nIn 2013, \"Billboard\" editor Jason Lipshutz opined the clip was \"one of the more brilliant musical moments in pop music since the dawn of the century. The visual is JT's most controversial music video to date.\" He added, \"The \"Cry Me a River\" video served a dual purpose for Timberlake: to court controversy, and to make its star seem more grown-up.\" In 2018, \"Billboard\" critics named it the 24th \"greatest music video of the 21st century.\"\n\nTimberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" for the first time at the 13th annual \"Billboard\" Music Awards, held on December 9, 2002, at the MGM Grand Garden Arena in Las Vegas. He was accompanied by a string section and a 20-member choir. He also performed the song on the Justified World Tour (2003–04), his first worldwide tour. The song was eighth on the set list of Justified/Stripped Tour (2003), his joint North American tour with Christina Aguilera. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" on a promotional concert held at House of Blues in West Hollywood, California on June 17, 2003. He performed a rock-inspired version of the song on \"Saturday Night Live\" on October 11, 2003; and it was fourteenth on the set list of his second worldwide tour, FutureSex/LoveShow (2007).\n\nOn October 23, 2010, while performing at the annual charity gig \"Justin Timberlake and Friends\" in Las Vegas, Timberlake began the show with a slow and \"sultry\" performance of \"Cry Me a River\" and segued into a cover of Bill Withers' 1971 single \"Ain't No Sunshine\". He later resumed \"Cry Me a River\" before segueing into a cover of Drake's 2010 song \"Over\". Jillian Mapes of \"Billboard\" described the performance as \"completely lovely in an effortless sort of way.\" Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" at concert he held during the 2013 Super Bowl weekend in New Orleans. Timberlake performed \"Cry Me a River\" in a medley with other of his songs at the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards. After the performance he accepted a Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award at the ceremony. Timberlake included the single on the set list of his fifth worldwide concert tour, The 20/20 Experience World Tour (2013–15).\n\nThe song was first covered by Welsh alternative metal band Lostprophets, recorded in a BBC Radio One session. It appears as a b-side of the single Last Train Home, released in 2004. American singer-songwriter Taylor Swift performed a cover of \"Cry Me a River\" in Memphis, Tennessee, during the Speak Now World Tour (2011–12). Justin Bieber recorded a cover of the song together with Kanye West's 2007 single \"Stronger\", which he posted on his YouTube account. Canadian rock band The Cliks also covered the song for their 2007 album \"Snakehouse\". British singer Leona Lewis covered \"Cry Me a River\" during her debut concert tour The Labyrinth (2010). The \"Sheffield Star\" described the version as a \"beautifully, sitting quietly, almost a capella\". \n\nAmerican indie pop duo Jack and White covered the song on their 2012 extended play \"Undercover\". Recording artist Kelly Clarkson covered the song on September 1, 2012, as a fan request during her 2012 Summer Tour with The Fray. In January 2013, American singer Selena Gomez performed an acoustic version of \"Cry Me a River\" at the UNICEF charity concert in New York City. In February 2015, Scottish synthpop band Chvrches performed a cover of \"Cry Me a River\" on BBC Radio 1's Live Lounge. The New Jersey alternative metal band 40 Below Summer performed a cover of the song in their 2015 album \"Transmission Infrared\".\n\nIn May 2020, Democratic presidential nominee Joe Biden released a new ad campaign which takes aim at Donald Trump and his statements that he is \"treated worse\" than any other president, instead of focusing on the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic. The campaign is soundtracked by \"Cry Me a River\".\n\n\"Cry Me a River\" marked the first collaboration between Timberlake and Timbaland, and its critical and commercial success started \"one of the most forward-thinking star-producer duos in pop music\", as described by \"Variety\"s author Andrew Barker. Alternative rock band Coldplay revealed that the single was an inspiration for the drumbeat of their song \"Lost!\". Rock singer Marilyn Manson cited it as one of the main songs that influenced him. In order to use the song in the 2017 film \"Lady Bird\" set in 2003, director Greta Gerwig sent a letter to Timberlake, \"Your album \"Justified\" was that year, and it owned that year.\"\n\nRosalía samples the chorus from \"Cry Me a River\" for her song \"Bagdad\" on her album \"El mal querer\" (2018), featuring a Barcelona children's choir. \"Billboard\" deemed the track \"a transcultural re-interpretation\" of \"Cry Me a River.\" Halsey's song \"Without Me\" contains an interpolation of the pre-chorus of \"Cry Me a River\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCredits adapted from the liner notes of \"Justified\", Jive Records.\n"}
{"id": "2300852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300852", "title": "Snaffle bit", "text": "Snaffle bit\n\nA snaffle bit is the most common type of bit used while riding horses. It consists of a bit mouthpiece with a ring on either side and acts with direct pressure. A bridle utilizing only a snaffle bit is often called a \"snaffle bridle\", particularly in the English riding disciplines. A bridle that carries two bits, a curb bit and a snaffle, or \"bradoon\", is called a double bridle.\n\nA snaffle is not necessarily a bit with a jointed bit mouthpiece, as is often thought. A bit is a snaffle because it creates direct pressure without leverage on the mouth. It is a bit without a shank. Therefore, a single- or double-jointed mouthpiece, though the most common designs for snaffle bits, does not make a bit a snaffle. Even a mullen mouth (a solid, slightly curved bar) or a bar bit is a snaffle.\n\nThe snaffle bit works on several parts of the horse's mouth; the mouthpiece of the bit acts on the tongue and bars, the lips of the horse also feel pressure from both the mouthpiece and the rings. The rings also serve to act on the side of the mouth, and, depending on design, the sides of the jawbone.\n\nA snaffle is sometimes mistakenly thought of as \"any mild bit\". While direct pressure without leverage is milder than pressure with leverage, nonetheless, certain types of snaffle bits can be extremely harsh when manufactured with wire, twisted metal or other \"sharp\" elements. A thin or rough-surfaced snaffle, used harshly, can damage a horse's mouth.\n\nCurb chains or straps have no effect on a true snaffle because there is no leverage to act upon. English riders do not add any type of curb strap or curb chain to a snaffle bit. While some riders in western disciplines do add a curb strap to the rings, it is merely a \"hobble\" for the rings, has no leverage effect and is there only as a safety feature to prevent the rings from being pulled through the mouth of the horse, should the animal gape open its mouth in an attempt to avoid the bit, an outcome prevented in an English bridle by the presence of a cavesson noseband.\n\nThe snaffle differs from the pelham bit, the curb bit, and the kimberwicke in that it is a \"non-leverage\" bit, and so does not amplify the pressure applied by the reins. With a snaffle, one ounce of pressure applied by the reins to a snaffle mouthpiece will apply one ounce of pressure on the mouth. With a curb, one ounce of pressure on the reins will apply more – sometimes far more – than one ounce of pressure on the horse's mouth.\n\nThere are many riders (and a remarkable number of tack shops) who do not know the true definition of a snaffle: a bit that is non-leverage. This often results in a rider purchasing a jointed mouthpiece bit with shanks, because it is labeled a \"snaffle,\" and believing that it is soft and kind because of the connotation the snaffle name has with being mild. In truth, the rider actually bought a curb bit with a jointed mouthpiece, which actually is a fairly severe bit due to the combination of a nutcracker effect on the jaw and leverage from the shanks.\n\nA true snaffle does not have a shank like a pelham or curb bit. Although the kimberwicke appears to have a D-shaped bit ring like a snaffle, the bit mouthpiece is not centered on the ring, and thus applying the reins creates leverage; in the Uxeter kimberwicke, there are slots for the reins placed within the bit ring, which allows the reins to create additional leverage. Both are used with a curb chain, thus the ring acts like a bit shank and creates a slight amount of leverage, making it a type of curb bit.\n\nA true snaffle also will not be able to slide up and down the rings of the bit or cheekpieces of the bridle, as this would place it in the gag bit category.\n\nThe mouthpiece is the more important part of a snaffle, as it controls the severity of the bit. Thinner mouthpieces are more severe, as are those that are rougher.\n\n\nThere are several types of rings that affect the action of the bit.\n\n\nThe most important thing to remember when fitting a bit is that no two horses are completely alike. What is preferred by one, may cause severe problems in another. It is therefore the rider's duty to find a bit that not only suits the horse (both mouthpiece and ring), but one that fits correctly. The three main criteria in fitting the snaffle are the height the bit is raised in the mouth (adjusted by the cheekpieces), the width of the bit (from where the mouthpiece hits one ring, to where it hits the other), and the thickness of the mouthpiece.\n\nTheories as to fitting the snaffle vary between horse owners, but the most common theory of fitting the snaffle is to adjust it so that it creates one or two wrinkles in the lips at the corner of the horse's mouth. The best way to determine how high a snaffle should be is to begin with the bit just touching the corners of the horse's mouth, forming one wrinkle. If the rider holds the cheekpieces of the bridle and moves them up, there should remain enough give in the bridle to raise the bit in the horses mouth, however, there should not be excessive slack in the cheekpieces when this is done.\nThe horse should keep its mouth closed over a properly-fitted bit (slight chewing is acceptable and a sign of relaxation) and hold its head quietly. A bit may need to be adjusted either higher or lower until the horse shows no signs of discomfort. The height of the bit in the horse's mouth has little significant impact on its severity. Some riders mistakenly think that raising or lowering the bit increases its effect, but this is not correct. The bit is most effective when properly adjusted. Improper adjustment only causes discomfort, not increased control.\n\nFactors that affect the fit of the bit include both the length of the mouth overall, the length of the interdental space between the incisors and the molars where the bit rests on the bars (gums) of the horse's mouth, the thickness of the horse's tongue and the height of the mouth from tongue to palate. There is less room for error with a horse who has a short mouth, thick tongue and a low palate than with a horse who has a longer mouth, thinner tongue and a higher palate.\n\nOne of the important criteria when fitting the snaffle is that it does not hit the horse's teeth. The greater concern is that the bit not be so high as to constantly rub on the molars, which can cause considerable discomfort to the horse. A bit adjusted too low usually will not come anywhere near the incisors, even on a short-mouthed horse, until the entire bridle is at risk of falling off.\n\nIf the bit is adjusted too low (not touching the corner of the mouth), it is primarily a safety concern, though the action of the bit can also be altered and lead to discomfort. A horse can get its tongue over a too-low bit and thus evade its pressure, plus the action of the bit is altered and it will not act on the mouth as it was designed. Horses with a bit too low will often open their mouths to evade pressure and may chew on it excessively. In extreme cases, the bridle could even fall off if the rider pulls hard on the reins, hence raising the bit and loosening the cheekpieces, at the same time the horse rubs, tosses or shakes its head vigorously.\n\nMany horses will \"carry\" a too-low bit themselves, using their tongue to hold it in the proper place. Some trainers, especially in western riding disciplines, consider this desirable and adjust a bridle a bit low to encourage this behavior. Other trainers, especially in English riding disciplines, prefer to hang the bit a little higher so it is in the correct position without need for the horse to move it there.\n\nIf the bit is too high (depending on the horse, at three or more wrinkles in the lips), it will irritate the lips, leading to callousing and a loss of sensitivity over time. However, the more immediate consequence is that the horse feels constant bit pressure and cannot get any release, even if the rider loosens the reins. This leads to the horse becoming tense in the jaw and resisting the bit. Most of all, if a too-high bit rubs on the molars, this discomfort will cause the horse to toss its head and otherwise express its displeasure at the situation, leading to a poor performance.\n\nIf the horse tosses its head or attempts to evade contact with a bit, improper fit is usually the cause, but other factors should be considered. A rider needs to verify with a veterinarian that the horse does not have a dental problem. Then bit fit and the type of bit needs to be considered. But finally, the skills of the rider may be a factor. Even the gentlest bit properly adjusted may still cause discomfort to a horse in the hands of a poor rider.\n\nThe snaffle should generally be no more than  inch wider than the horse's mouth. A horse's mouth can be measured by placing a wooden dowel or a piece of string into the mouth where the bit will go and marking it at the edges of the horse's lips. A bit that is too narrow can cause pinching (which may be very severe in a loose ring), and the pinching may lead to behavior problems when the horse experiences the discomfort. A pinching bit will also cause callousing on the lips. The lesser sin is a bit that is too wide, which does not pinch the lips, but does not allow for effective communication between horse and rider. The nutcracker effect of a jointed snaffle presents a fit issue as well; the joint of a too-wide mouthpiece will hit the roof of the horse's mouth when the reins are tightened.\n\nCompetition rules require bits to have a minimum diameter, but have no upper limits on thickness. Many horsepeople believe that a fatter mouthpiece is always a milder mouthpiece, because thin mouthpieces localize the pressure on the bars of the mouth. However, the horse's mouth is filled almost completely by his tongue. Therefore, many horses (especially those with large, fleshy tongues) prefer an average diameter mouthpiece, which provides slightly more space in an already cramped mouth. Additionally, thicker mouthpieces do not give a great deal of extra bearing surface, and so generally do not help as much as many riders believe. To make a bit milder, it can be wrapped with rubber or made of a softer plastic material instead of metal.\n\nHowever, mouthpieces that are extremely thin, such as wire mouthpieces or those that are only –\" in thickness, are never mild. These can be damaging to a horse's mouth.\n\n\nEdwards Complete Book of Bits and Bitting pp. 52–54\nKapitzke Bit and Reins p. 79\nEdwards Complete Book of Bits and Bitting p. 55\nEdwards Complete Book of Bits and Bitting p. 68\nEdwards Complete Book of Bits and Bitting p. 57\nEdwards Complete Book of Bits and Bitting p. 58\nKapitzke Bit and Reins p. 95\n\n"}
{"id": "2300853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300853", "title": "Kanzeon Zen Center", "text": "Kanzeon Zen Center\n\nKanzeon Zen Center was a Zen Buddhist center located in Salt Lake City, Utah. It was an affiliate of the White Plum Asanga, an association of Zen centers stemming from the tradition of Taizan Maezumi. The founder and Abbot of Kanzeon Zen Center was Dennis Genpo Merzel Roshi, who resigned in 2011 amidst controversy. Kanzeon Zen Center was the home temple and the hub of Kanzeon Sangha International, founded by Genpo Roshi in 1984, with affiliate teachers, centers and groups in the US and seven European countries.\nThe center was housed at 1274 E. South Temple, a historic building listed as a contributing property in the South Temple Historic District. It closed in the wake of the sex scandals involving Merzel. News reports stated that the center was deeply financially in debt to Merzel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300854", "title": "Boskin Commission", "text": "Boskin Commission\n\nThe Boskin Commission, formally called the \"Advisory Commission to Study the Consumer Price Index\", was appointed by the United States Senate in 1995 to study possible bias in the computation of the Consumer Price Index (CPI), which is used to measure inflation in the United States. Its final report, titled \"Toward A More Accurate Measure Of The Cost Of Living\" and issued on December 4, 1996, concluded that the CPI overstated inflation by about 1.1 percentage points per year in 1996 and about 1.3 percentage points prior to 1996. \n\nThe report was important because inflation, as calculated by the Bureau of Labor Statistics, is used to index the annual payment increases in Social Security and other retirement and compensation programs. This implied that the federal budget had increased by more than it should have, and that projections of future budget deficits were too large. The original report calculated that the overstatement of inflation would add $148 billion to the deficit and $691 billion to the national debt by 2006.\n\nThe report highlighted four sources of possible bias:\n\nThe members of the Boskin Commission were:\n\nThe Boskin Commission was the first extensive evaluation of inflation measurement since the Stigler Commission in 1961. Griliches was also on that commission.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300860", "title": "Picasso's Blue Period", "text": "Picasso's Blue Period\n\nThe Blue Period () is a term used to define the works produced by Spanish painter Pablo Picasso between 1901 and 1904 when he painted essentially monochromatic paintings in shades of blue and blue-green, only occasionally warmed by other colors. These somber works, inspired by Spain and painted in Barcelona and Paris, are now some of his most popular works, although he had difficulty selling them at the time.\n\nThis period's starting point is uncertain; it may have begun in Spain in the spring of 1901 or in Paris in the second half of the year. In choosing austere color and sometimes doleful subject matter—prostitutes, beggars and drunks—Picasso was influenced by a journey through Spain and by the suicide of his friend Carles Casagemas, who took his life at the L’Hippodrome Café in Paris, France by shooting himself in the right temple on February 17, 1901. Although Picasso himself later recalled, \"I started painting in blue when I learned of Casagemas's death\", art historian Hélène Seckel has written: \"While we might be right to retain this psychologizing justification, we ought not lose sight of the chronology of events: Picasso was not there when Casagemas committed suicide in Paris ... When Picasso returned to Paris in May, he stayed in the studio of his departed friend, where he worked for several more weeks to prepare his exhibition for Vollard\". The works Picasso painted for his show at Ambroise Vollard's gallery that summer were generally characterized by a \"dazzling palette and exuberant subject matter\". Picasso's psychological state worsened as 1901 continued.\n\nIn the latter part of 1901, Picasso sank into a severe depression and blue tones began to dominate his paintings. Picasso's painting \"La mort de Casagemas\", completed early in the year following his friend's suicide, was done in hot, bright hues. The painting considered the first of his Blue Period, \"Casagemas in His Coffin\", was completed later in 1901 when Picasso was sinking into a major depression. Picasso, normally an outgoing socializer, withdrew from his friends. Picasso's bout of depression was to last several years. Picasso's career had been promising before 1901 and early in that year he was making \"a splash\" in Paris. However, as he moved towards subject matter such as society's poor and outcast, and accented this with a cool, anguished mood with blue hues, the critics and the public turned away from his works. Members of the public were uninterested in displaying the Blue Period works in their homes. Picasso continued his output, but his financial situation suffered:\n\nFrom 1901 to 1903, he painted several posthumous portraits of Casagemas, culminating in the gloomy allegorical painting \"La Vie\", painted in 1903 and now in the Cleveland Museum of Art. The same mood pervades the well-known etching \"The Frugal Repast\" (1904) which depicts a blind man and a sighted woman, both emaciated, seated at a nearly bare table. Blindness is a recurrent theme in Picasso's works of this period, also represented in \"The Blindman's Meal\" (1903, the Metropolitan Museum of Art) and in the portrait of \"Celestina\" (1903).\n\nInfrared imagery of Picasso's 1901 painting \"The Blue Room\" reveals another painting beneath the surface.\n\nOther frequent subjects include female nudes and mothers with children. Solitary figures dominate his Blue Period works. Themes of loneliness, poverty and despair pervade the works as well. Possibly his most well known work from this period is \"The Old Guitarist\". Other major works include \"Portrait of Soler\" (1903) and \"Las dos hermanas\" (1904).\n\nPicasso's Blue Period was followed by his Rose Period. Picasso's bout with depression gradually ended, and as his psychological state improved, he moved towards more joyful, vibrant works, and emphasized the use of pinks (\"rose\" in French) and other warm hues to express the shift in mood and subject matter.\n\nThe painting \"Portrait of Suzanne Bloch\" (1904), one of the final works from this period, was stolen from the São Paulo Museum of Art (MASP) on December 20, 2007, but retrieved on January 8, 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300866", "title": "Ashland School District", "text": "Ashland School District\n\nThere are several school districts in the United States called Ashland School District, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "2300874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300874", "title": "Louis Svitek", "text": "Louis Svitek\n\nLouis Svitek is an American musician and former guitarist for a number of bands including Zoetrope, M.O.D., Ministry, Pigface, Mind Funk, The Hollow steps and Project .44. His work can also be found in many movie soundtracks such as \"The Matrix\" and \"Blue Hill Avenue\".\n\nLouis Svitek and partner Ryan McGuire founded their own recording studio and independent record label, \"WuLi Records\", in Chicago, IL. WuLi Records is responsible for discovering Chicago's acts such as The Redd, 2 Unique, Young Inno, The Waking, and \"American Idol\" 2010 winner Lee DeWyze. Prior to \"Idol\", Louis Svitek was part of the Lee DeWyze Band that also included Ryan McGuire and Jeff Henderson.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300882", "title": "Giovanni Battista Caprara", "text": "Giovanni Battista Caprara\n\nGiovanni Battista Caprara Montecuccoli (1733 – 1810) was an Italian statesman and Cardinal and archbishop of Milan from 1802 to 1810. As a papal diplomat he served in the embassies in Cologne, Lausanne, and Vienna. As Legate of Pius VII in France, he implemented the \"Concordat\" of 1801, and negotiated with the Emperor Napoleon over the matter of appointments to the restored hierarchy in France. He crowned Napoleon as King of Italy in Milan in 1805.\n\nCaprara was born at Bologna on 29 May 1733 to Count Francesco Raimondo Montecuccoli and Countess Maria Vittoria Caprara. He took his maternal surname since she was the last of her line of the Capraras. He was the brother of Count Alberto Caprara, the general and diplomat in the service of Austria.\n\nHe studied at the Collegio Nazareno in Rome, and earned a doctorate in utroque iure at the Sapienza University of Rome on 23 September 1755.\n\nWith his doctorate in law, Caprara was appointed in 1755 referendary of the Tribunals of the Apostolic Signature; from 1758 to 1761 he served as vice-legate of the papal state of the Romandiola, with its capital at Ravenna. Caprara was ordained a priest on 22 December 1765. Appointed titular archbishop of Iconium on 1 December 1766, he was consecrated bishop in the Quirinal Palace on 8 December 1766 by Pope Clement XIII.\n\nFollowing his appointment as titular bishop, Caprara was named Apostolic Nuncio to Cologne on 18 December 1766. He served until 1775. In Cologne, he made an effort to deal with the difficulties raised by Febronianism. In 1772 he visited the Netherlands and was sent by Pope Clement XIV as his personal agent to the United Kingdom, where he was presented to King George III by the Austrian ambassador. His mission was to explore the possibilities of Catholic Emancipation in the United Kingdom, particularly in Ireland. In one of his meetings with the King, he was requested to procure a certain medicine, which in due course Pope Clement forwarded to George III. When Caprara's mission became a matter of public knowledge, Pope Clement was denounced in various cities as a heretic, and anti-Catholic sentiment in England was aroused to the point that the British government severed its contacts with the Papacy. It was not until six years later that the matter of emancipation could be brought up again, with the Papists Act 1778. Back in Cologne, when the Jesuits were suppressed in 1773, it fell to Caprara to attempt, over the considerable objections of the three ecclesiastical Electors of the Holy Roman Empire, to carry out the provisions of Pope Clement XIV's bull of suppression of 21 July 1773, \"Dominus ac Redemptor\".\nDue to health problems (the official reason, but actually at the request of the Empress Maria Theresa), on 6 September 1775 Caprara was appointed nuncio at Lucerne. In 1785 he was transferred to Vienna, where he remained until 1793. The papal Secretary of State (prime minister), Cardinal Francesco Saverio de Zelada (1789-1796), was dissatisfied with his conduct in Vienna. Caprara, with his compliant and passive nature, did not oppose the religious reforms undertaken by Joseph II, who was attempting to make the Catholic Church in his empire the tool of the state, and independent of the papacy.\n\nIn order to end his tenure of the nunciature in Vienna in an honorable way, on 18 June 1792 Caprara was promoted Cardinal Priest by Pope Pius VI, with the titular church of Sant'Onofrio in Rome. In Rome he was appointed a member of the Congregations of Bishops and Regulars, Propaganda, Good Government (economic affairs of the Papal States), and the Consulta (the main council of state of the Papal states and appellate tribunal), in the Roman Curia. He was also Protector of the Order of Carmelites. From 21 February 1794 to 1 June 1795 Caprara served as Chamberlain of the College of Cardinals. When Napoleon in 1796 conquered North Italy during the War of the First Coalition, Caprara, perhaps to protect his own estates in Bologna, took a stand in favor of the newly created Transpadane Republic even though the Napoleonic republic had in its agenda strong anticlerical measures. In this period he got the reputation of being a \"\"Jacobin Cardinal\"\". He supported the Treaty of Tolentino in 1797 which imposed terms of surrender on the Papal States. He fell into complete disgrace in the eyes of Pope Pius VI.\n\nCaprara participated to the Papal conclave in Venice from November 1799 to March 1800. He was one of the cardinals absolutely excluded from consideration as pope as far as the Austrian government was concerned. He himself was a supporter of Cardinal Carlo Bellisomi, and an opponent of Cardinal Alessandro Mattei, who had signed the Treaty of Tolentino with Napoleon. Caprara was particularly interested in that treaty, since it had surrendered the Three Legations of the Papal States, including Caprara's native Bologna, to the French. During the Conclave, in early January, he approached the Austrian representative, Cardinal František Hrzán z Harras, with the observation that the choice of a person who was not recommended by the Austrian Court (as was Mattei), would make a better impression during negotiations for the return of the Legations. Hrzan replied that the Legations had been detached from the Papal States by a solemn treaty which had been signed by the Pope, and that they had been conquered by Austrian troops from the Cisalpine Republic. Conquest was a more solid claim. According to Cardinal Hrzan's report to the Austrian Emperor, when Cardinal Gregorio Barnaba Chiaramonti began to be talked about seriously on 11 March, his candidacy was resisted by Cardinals Borgia, Doria, Maury, Pignatelli, and Caprara, even up to the final vote. Hrzan speculated that the new pope would place little confidence in them. After the Conclave, Caprara requested that Hrzan use his influence with the Austrian government to see to it that his income from his benefice at S. Maria della Grazie in Bologna was paid.\n\nThe Emperor Francis wanted the new Pope, Pius VII, to come to Vienna, though the Pope himself was eager to get to Rome, and intended to take the land route through Bologna, Caprara's home. This was unacceptable to Austria, which was in possession of Bologna and wanted no unrest. Pius was therefore sent by sea to Ancona. The Austrians were agitated, moreover, by the fact that Caprara was intriguing to be made Archbishop of Bologna. Pius himself, however, assured the Austrian diplomat Filippo Ghislieri that he had never thought seriously about naming Caprara to the vacant See of Bologna.\n\nCaprara had good relations with Pius VII, with whom he traveled back to Rome. During the voyage from Venice to Ancona, Caprara expected to be named Administrator of the diocese of Ancona, expecting to be then named Bishop. At the end of June 1800, however, Cardinal Bussi de Pretis, Bishop of Jesi, died, and it immediately became the gossip of the Papal Court \"en route\" that Caprara was being considered as his successor. The Pope appeared to be somewhat disposed to favor the prospect, which was certain enough by 24 July that Caprara went to Jesi to take possession of his diocese. On 11 August 1800 Giovanni Battista Caprara was appointed Bishop of Jesi in the March of Ancona.\n\nWhen the Concordat of 1801 between Pope Pius VII and the French First Republic was concluded, Napoleon Bonaparte, then First Consul, asked for the appointment of a papal legate with residence in Paris. Napoleon's choice fell upon Cardinal Caprara; he may have expected in this way little or no opposition to his plans. The suggestion may have been inspired by Count Azara. Caprara was appointed \"legate a latere\" for France in the Secret Consistory of 24 August 1801, and in the Public Consistory of 27 August. He departed Rome on 5 September, with a tiny suite of ten persons, for his destination, and arrived in Paris on 4 October.\n\nIn Caprara's instructions there were two principal points. The first concerned the position of the Constitutional bishops, many of whom were supporters of the First Consul. Bonaparte wanted them to be reappointed to their dioceses, or at least to other dioceses. This presented grave spiritual and canonical problems for Pius VII, since the bishops were heretics and schismatics, and it would be impossible to appoint them to diocesan posts without a full confession of guilt, as well as retractation of their oaths to the Civil Constitution of the Clergy and submission to the judgment of the Pope. Caprara was to try to get Bonaparte to refrain from nominating (a right guaranteed in the new Concordat) any of the Constitutional bishops. Napoleon had no intention of complying with the Pope's demands. The second principal point had to do with the restoration of territories of the Papal States which had been seized by the French armies during the wars in Italy. These included the Three Legations, which Napoleon intended to form a major part of his Italian Republic.\n\nThe principal negotiator for the French Consulate was Jean-Étienne-Marie Portalis, Minister of Religious Affairs (\"cultes\"). During the negotiations which followed concerning the execution of the Concordat of 1801, Caprara displayed a conciliatory spirit in dealing with the ten constitutional bishops who were to be appointed, at least according to Bonaparte's demand, to as many of the newly established dioceses; in fact, Caprara went contrary to specific instructions from Cardinal Consalvi in Rome, under persistent pressure exerted by Napoleon. On 15 March 1802 Bonaparte issued instructions to Portalis concerning the publication of the Concordat, and remarked that 50 bishops had to be named, 18 legitimate bishops living in France and twelve from the Constitutional clergy; of the 20 remaining, half would be Constitutionals. Five days later, realizing the number would be insufficient, he raised the number of 50 to 60 (fifty bishops and ten archbishops). He made his choices from the list supplied by Portalis. Caprara heard of the list of nominees on 30 March, and was horrified to see that it contained the names of 10 Constitutional bishops, despite the apparent agreement of Bonaparte not to name any Constitutional bishops. On 10 April Caprara insisted that these ten reject their errors, and he was supplied by Bonaparte's officials, Portalis and Bernier, with a letter signed by the ten bishops in which they renounced the Civil Constitution of the Clergy. Caprara took this as sufficient evidence of repentance, provided that they publicly confess their errors in the presence of Bernier and Pancemont. They informed Caprara that the conditions had been met, and on 17 April Caprara instituted the ten bishops. Next day Bernier and Pancemont denied the truth of the repentance, but it was Easter Day and the day of reconciliation, and the day on which two episcopal consecrations were to take place. Caprara had been deceived and managed, and the Vatican subsequently strongly criticized his actions.\n\nThe Concordat was officially approved by votes of the Tribunate and the Legislative Assembly on 8 April 1802. At the same time and in the same bodies, Napoleon had 121 articles, called the Organic Articles, approved as laws of the French State. These articles had not been approved by the Papacy, and had not even been shown in their entirety to the Legate Caprara, before their passage. They were regarded by the French as amplifying the Concordat, though a number of them in fact contradicted it. The Pope had been tricked and circumvented.\n\nCardinal Caprara officiated at the Solemn restoration of public worship in the cathedral of Notre-Dame on Easter Day (18 April 1802), at which function the First Consul, the high officers of state, and the new ecclesiastical dignitaries assisted. The new Archbishop of Paris, the 92 year-old Jean-Baptiste de Belloy-Morangle, led the clergy. After the reading of the gospel of the day, twenty-seven bishops who were present knelt at the feet of Bonaparte and took a solemn oath of allegiance to the government and the French Republic.\n\nOn 5 May Cardinal Consalvi, the Papal Secretary of State, wrote to Caprara, demanding explanations about the Constitutional bishops, and about the ceremonies of 18 April, pointing out that the Pope's position had been and was that the Constitutional bishops should have had no part in them. He also pointed out that all the newspapers, particularly those in German territory, were referring to the Organic Articles as though they were part of the Concordat.\n\nOn 27 May 1803 Pius VII wrote Bonaparte a letter, begging him to modify the Organic Articles, Napoleon's own supplement to the Concordat, along lines suggested by the papal government. Napoleon's obstinacy was one of the principal reasons Pius decided to make his visit to Paris for the coronation of the emperor in 1804. In a letter written 18 August 1803, Caprara too protested against the Organic Articles added to the Concordat by the French Government, as \"establishing in France an ecclesiastical code without the cooperation of the Holy See... The Church has received from God alone the authorization to decide questions of the doctrine of the faith or of the regulation of morals, and to make canons or rules of discipline.\" The Church, in fact, never accepted the Organic Articles, though it was powerless to prevent their enforcement.\n\nIn November 1801 the Archbishop of Milan Filippo Maria Visconti was invited by Tayllerand in Lyon to participate to the founding of the Italian Republic, the work of First Consul Bonaparte; but on 30 December 1801, Visconti died there in Lyon while attending a formal banquet. Napoleon arrived in Lyon on 11 January 1802 and designated Caprara as new Archbishop of Milan. Pope Pius VII concurred, so on 24 May 1802 Caprara was appointed Archbishop of Milan.\n\nCaprara however retained his position as papal Legate in France until his death, and continued to reside in Paris. He visited Milan only once, from 2 April 1805 to 26 July 1805, for the ceremonies of the Coronation of the Emperor Napoleon as King of Italy in the Cathedral of Milan, which took place on 26 May 1805. It was the Cardinal's privilege to bless the Iron Crown of Lombardy which Napoleon then placed on his own head. During the absence of Caprara from Milan, the diocese was ruled by the Vicar general, Carlo Bianchi, who had to deal with the anticlerical commands of the Kingdom of Italy, such as the oath to the state Secretary of Cult by the teachers of the seminaries, and the compulsory abolition of most confraternities.\n\nIn 1806, Cardinal Caprara caused considerable consternation and offense when he authorized the publication of the \"Catechism of the French Empire\". Among other things, Lesson 7 of Part I of the document mentioned Napoleon I by name and urged the faithful to do their duty to him, \"firstly, because God... plentifully bestowing gifts upon our Emperor, whether for peace or for war, has made him the minister of his power, and his image upon earth... He has become the anointed of the Lord by the consecration he has received from the Sovereign Pontiff, head of the universal church.\"\n\nCaprara lived in Paris until his death. Relations between Napoleon and the Papal States became more and more difficult, especially with the implementation of the continental blockade against England, which Pius VII refused to sanction or participate in. Caprara's desire to please Napoleon brought increasing dissatisfaction on the part of the Pope and the Secretary of State Cardinal Ercole Consalvi. The situation degenerated in 1808 when the Napoleonic army entered in the Papal States on 3 February 1808, and General Miollis occupied Rome. In April 1808, Cardinal Caprara was ordered by Pius VII to demand his passports, that is to say, to quit his position as Legate and leave France. Caprara resigned as legate, but contrary to the papal order he did not leave Paris. On 10 June 1809, in the Bull \"Quum memoranda\", Pius VII excommunicated \"all those who after the invasion of Rome and the ecclesiastical territory, and the sacrilegious violation of St. Peter's Patrimony by French troops, have committed either at Rome in the States of the Church, against ecclesiastical immunities, and against the simple temporal rights of the Church and Holy See, either all or any of the outrages which have provoked our complaints; all authors, promoters, counsellors, or adherents of similar doings; all those, finally, who have contributed to facilitate the realization of these violent acts or have accompliehed them.\" The excommunication certainly included Napoleon I, Emperor of the French. On 5 July 1809 Pope Pius was arrested. Still in 1809, when Pope Pius VII was already captive in Savona, Caprara pleaded with the pope to support Napoleon. Declining health saved him from the embarrassment connected with the divorce and second marriage of Napoleon (April 1810).\n\nCaprara died at Paris on 21 June 1810. In his last will his fortune was left to the hospital of Milan. Caprara had a solemn funeral by order of the Emperor Napoleon, and his body was buried in the Panthéon of Paris (where it remained until 1861), while his heart was buried in the Cathedral of Milan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300891", "title": "Proteus (Marvel Comics)", "text": "Proteus (Marvel Comics)\n\nKevin MacTaggert, best known as Proteus and also called Mutant X, is a character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The character is commonly associated with the X-Men.\n\nKevin was the mutant son of Scottish genetic researcher Moira MacTaggert and politician Joseph MacTaggert. Kevin had reality-warping and possession powers and lived most of his life in forced seclusion at his mother's Muir Island research facility.\n\nHis attempt to break free and find his father made up a classic 1979–80 \"Uncanny X-Men\" storyline that was adapted in the 1990s \"X-Men\" animated series. In 2009, Proteus was ranked as IGN's 77th-greatest villain of all time.\n\nCreated by writer Chris Claremont and artist/co-writer John Byrne, Proteus first appeared in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #125 (September 1979), though hints to his character appeared in earlier issues. First, he appears off-panel in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #104. His voice is then revealed in \"Uncanny X-Men\" #119, as he took over the body of his first victim off-panel.\n\nProteus is written as one of the strongest and deadliest mutants ever to appear in Marvel Comics. Despite this, Proteus was not fortunate enough to have a happy life. Even his conception was under unpleasant circumstances. He was the son of Moira MacTaggert and her sinister husband, Joseph MacTaggert, who forced Moira into an unhappy marriage. Moira conceived Kevin after Joseph severely beat and raped her. After this traumatic experience, Moira left Joseph. She did not notify him that she was pregnant with his child.\n\nMoira and Kevin lived at her Mutant Research Centre on Muir Island, off the coast of Scotland. Kevin eventually began manifesting his mutant abilities and became a danger to everyone around him. His abilities gave him an uncontrollable hunger for energy. To protect herself and others, Moira was forced to confine Kevin. To keep the truth about her son secret, she began to describe him to others only as \"Mutant X.\"\n\nFor years, Kevin remained inside his cell, sustained by esoteric energy fields that kept his body from burning itself out, until one day, after a battle between Magneto and the X-Men, his cell was damaged and Kevin was able to escape when he took over the body of Angus MacWhirter.\n\nMutant X realized that this stolen body was less effective than his original skin at housing his energy form. Reasoning that a more powerful host might sustain him for longer, Kevin decided to possess another resident of Muir Island, the powerful mutant known as Phoenix. He stalked Jean Grey for several days in Angus MacWhirter's body, looking for the opportunity to grab her while she was alone. Significantly weakened by the time his opportunity came, Mutant X was unable to overcome the Phoenix, and was driven off by her psychic assault. Without the isosteric energy fields of his cell to sustain him, Kevin began to burn his body out. The only solution he could find was to possess human host bodies, one after another. He went after Polaris next, but ultimately ended up taking the body of her protector, one of Madrox's duplicates.\n\nTo avoid further conflict, Mutant X cut his losses and fled Muir Island aboard Angus MacWhirter's boat before the X-Men arrived in force to confront him. On the Scottish mainland, he transferred his essence into the body of Fergie Duncan, rejuvenating himself in the process and leaving the X-Men none the wiser about his current identity. He had just jumped bodies again from Fergie into a passing policeman when the X-Men Wolverine and Nightcrawler caught up with him. Wolverine deduced Mutant X's identity and a confrontation began between the mutants. As they squared off, Kevin rejected the Mutant X label and started calling himself Proteus after the changing Greek god of myth and the room Moira used to control him as a child. Proteus tried to possess Wolverine's body, but was forced out by the Adamantium in Logan's skeleton. Nonetheless, he quickly incapacitated Nightcrawler and Wolverine by distorting spatial and substantial reality around them. Storm arrived and injured Proteus's host with her lightning, but Proteus grounded her and attempted to claim her form as his own. Moira managed to drive him off by firing sniper rounds at her son through a long-range scope, staying out of his field of vision and the range of his powers. Fearing the metal in Moira's bullets, Proteus fled and continued his trek towards Edinburgh and his father.\n\nProteus eventually went to Edinburgh, to possess his father, Joseph. After possessing his father, Proteus made a last stand against the X-Men. Joseph MacTaggert's body was destroyed in the battle. Before Proteus could take another host, Colossus (in his metallic form) punched Proteus in his energy form. Due to Proteus's intolerance for metal, he was unable to maintain his energy form. His energy was therefore dispersed across the world, and the X-Men and Moira assumed that he had been killed.\n\nSome time after his death, Moira MacTaggert thought about cloning Kevin, but she was discouraged successfully by Sean Cassidy (Banshee).\n\nSeveral years later, A.I.M. attempted to recreate Proteus. The organization used a woman named Harness and her mutant son, Piecemeal, to absorb all of the dispersed energy of Proteus. Piecemeal and Harness encountered the New Mutants, but escaped them. As the boy went about absorbing the energy, his body grew too large for his system to handle. Eventually, what was left of Proteus's consciousness and Piecemeal merged as one being after Piecemeal absorbed all the extant Proteus energy.\n\nThe combined efforts of the New Warriors, the New Mutants, the Muir Islanders, and the original X-Factor was not enough against this new creature. When the amalgamated being decided that it would not find happiness, it decided to disperse once more, effectively committing \"suicide\".\n\nSome time later it is revealed that Moira had recorded Proteus's DNA matrix on a disc which was being searched by Siena Blaze under the Gamesmaster's orders, who in turn was working with a mysterious associate. Siena is able to locate the disc but before she can evade being caught she must fight Nightcrawler and Shadowcat. They are able to recover the disc and return it to Moira when Rachel Summers joins the battle. Siena teleports away, vowing revenge. The mysterious associate of Gamesmaster is revealed to be Mr. Sinister who is furious with Siena Blaze that she did not manage to steal the DNA of Moira's son; however, his anger is quelled after Siena reveals she had scratched Rachel Summers.\n\nWhen the Scarlet Witch altered history and created the House of M reality, she inadvertently released Mutant X on the world again. Just as before, Moira MacTaggert discovered her son Kevin possessed vast mutant powers that were eating away at his body, and tried to cure him of this affliction. In the House of M, however, any attempt to \"cure\" mutation was a capital offense, and Magneto's Sentinels destroyed Moira's lab on Muir Island, making her a wanted fugitive and setting Kevin loose to kill as he pleased. Mutant X soon became an infamous Scottish serial killer known for the desiccated corpses he left in his wake.\n\nHe encounters the Exiles and actually manages to escape the House of M by stealing data from the Panoptichron. Notably, when he leaves his home reality he inhabits bodies of superhumans from \"approximation\" realities or Exiles members only. He has inhabited the bodies of an unnamed mutant, of Blunderbuss, and of Angel Salvadore in \"House of M\"; Mimic and Morph in \"Exiles\"; Justice from the New Universe; and the Hulk from the Marvel 2099 universe. None of these bodies lasts for long, with the exception of Angel Salvadore. Other reality manipulators, such as Longshot may be immune to Proteus's manipulations. Mutant X's current body, Morph from Exiles, also does not seem to deteriorate while Proteus inhabits it.\n\nProteus states that he could not stop thinking about Blink. Whether it was because he still had some of Mimic's memories or because he actually felt something for her is not yet clear. He states he was tired of fighting and that he just wants to talk, but before he can say anything, Longshot shields Blink, allowing her to teleport to safety. It is revealed by Proteus himself that his mind is able to recall all memories and feelings of his previous hosts. Following the death of Mimic, when Proteus transferred into Morph, Blink tricks Proteus into wearing a portable Behavior Modification System (from the Squadron Supreme's world), which she teleported into the crown he was wearing. The device brainwashes him into believing he is actually Morph and leaves him able to recall only Morph's memories prior to his possession. Unaware of his true identity, he begins behaving exactly like Morph and a member of the Exiles, much to the discomfort of the other Exiles. With Proteus trapped and believing he is Morph, he remained an Exile to continue fixing damaged realities. Considering Morph's body does not burn out like other hosts, Morph's consciousness is still active beneath Proteus. Also, Proteus is immune to metal while in Morph's body, since wearing a metal tiara during the \"Heroes Reborn\" world did not kill him. However, concerns about some discrepancies in \"Morph's\" behavior forced his teammates to plan regular brainwashings with the same device, and, eventually, put him in stasis whenever his behavior again became abnormal. However, that device was destroyed when Psylocke and Sabretooth fought so intensely that they shook the Crystal Palace, causing a bookcase to fall on Morph's head, shattering the device.\n\nDuring a confrontation where Proteus reawakened, he found himself lacking in power to defeat the adversary. About to be crushed, Proteus shouted aloud his desire to stay alive. In a vision, he saw a figure, almost identical to his own true energy form, telling him to take its hand, and he would survive. Upon doing so, Proteus found himself full of even greater power, using it to defeat his god-like enemy. Afterwards, it was revealed that this being was the personality and soul of the true Morph, having been in limbo, gaining strength within Proteus and his own body, who had before only been able to speak a few sentences through Proteus's control. Revealing to Proteus that he had the ability to eject him from his body, Morph gave Proteus the chance to work together and share his body and their powers, in order to do more good, something which Morph had discovered Proteus desired deep inside. Proteus accepted, and the two now work in harmony, better than either could be alone. Some time later, though, Proteus and Morph were completely separated by forces beyond their control. The crystalline structure of the Panoptichron reacted to the Exiles' continued presence in its walls by absorbing them into the crystal itself. The Crystal Palace somehow differentiated between Proteus and Morph, absorbing the former into the crystal walls while leaving the latter unscathed.\n\nSome of the Exiles that were trapped in the Crystal Palace have since resurfaced in other stories, indicating that those Exiles were eventually released from the crystal wall unharmed. Linearly speaking, Proteus was eventually restored as dispersed energy on Earth-616 and decided he was not happy being dead anymore, and arranged to bring himself back to life. To accomplish this, he planned to roughly recreate the process previously used by Harness and Piecemeal. When Selene began using the Technarch transmode virus to resurrect dead mutants, Proteus took advantage of her work by affixing a small portion of his energy signature, and therefore his consciousness, to the precognitive Destiny as she was resurrected. (This worked because Destiny died on Muir Island, a place with one of the largest concentrations of residual Proteus energy.) Although the quantum of Proteus energy involved was not enough to truly \"possess\" Destiny as he had done in the past, Proteus was able to influence Destiny's perceptions so that she saw a future of his design, and acted accordingly.\n\nWhen Destiny tried telepathically contacting her foster-daughter Rogue, she instead found Blindfold and passed on her vision (and unwittingly a portion of Proteus energy). Now being influenced by Proteus as well, Blindfold confirmed Destiny's obscured vision that a threat was rising on Muir Island, and the X-Men needed to stop it. Trusting their premonitions, Cyclops dispatched Blindfold with a squad of X-Men for Muir. Once they arrived, Proteus was able to use Blindfold like a \"psychic magnet\", soaking up more and more Proteus energy from his familiar surroundings until she reached critical mass, and enough Proteus energy was consolidated in one place to truly resurrect Kevin MacTaggert, letting him fully possess Blindfold. Destiny had recognized her error after passing the energy on the Blindfold, but arrived too late to stop Proteus's ascension.\n\nOnce he was restored, Proteus turned on the X-Men, particularly his murderer Colossus who was among the team, and Magneto whose power over Proteus's weakness, metal, made him the most dangerous. Worse still, Proteus's experience reconstituting himself taught him how to split his energy among multiple bodies, possessing several X-Men simultaneously as he added Nightcrawler, Husk, Trance and Psylocke to his existing hosts Blindfold and Destiny. Rogue struck back at Proteus, stealing Psylocke's psi-knife to disrupt his control of his hosts one by one. As Rogue's stolen power wore off, Magneto magnetically launched himself and \"Blindfold\" into low orbit. Although Proteus managed to redirect them back to Earth, the distraction gave Magneto the time he needed to electromagnetically identify Proteus's energy wavelength, and disrupt it. With Proteus back in the same position he was in when he initiated his own resurrection hours earlier, Psylocke questioned how they knew he would not return one day. Magneto ominously replied that, in fact, they should know that he would return.\n\nSome of Proteus's energy was found drifting in the Astral Plane by the Shadow King, who used it to become his new source of power, in an endless battle between him and Xavier, who had been forced to partake in this following his death at the hands of Cyclops. In the battle's final moments, Shadow King spread Proteus as a psychic infection on London. With the help of his X-Men, Xavier (now inhabiting Fantomex's body and calling himself X), defeated the Shadow King, and unaware of the psychic infection nature, he was eventually able to gather it in the shape of a green sun, reconstituting in the process Proteus. Knowing that Proteus is vulnerable to metal, Old Man Logan wants to face him with Archangel, but X wants to reason with him first and asks for Psylocke's help to enter Proteus's mind together. Proteus feels his mind being forced into and allows X and Psylocke to enter his mental landscape. X and Betsy find themselves near a beautiful castle where they are welcomed by the young Kevin McTaggert. Kevin believes atonement and change are possible and strongly believes he was only ten years old at the time Colossus killed him back at Muir Island (although it was established that Kevin was actually 19 or 20 years old at the time). He came back a few times after that, but the X-Men were always there to kill him just because he dared to see the world after years off imprisonment. When the Shadow King grabbed ahold of his psyche, he spent ten thousand years on the Astral Plane reflecting on what he had done to all the poor people he had possessed back then. Kevin shows Betsy an image of her original body dressed in the pink uniform and asks her if she is still the same person she was when she started her journey. Kevin argues that the X-Men want to kill him again just because he did something bad in the past. Proteus says if they leave him alone, he will leave them alone as well. X does not want to risk, and attacks Kevin instead. In retaliation, Proteus merges the physical bodies of X and Psylocke and sends them back to London. After the merger is undone and X and Psylocke are rescued by their teammates, X reveals that Proteus is planning to bring the Astral Plane into the real world to make it function like the psionic realm. Kevin traveled to the Scottish village of Fetters Hill, in order to carry out his experiment and granted the citizens of the town the ability to make real whatever they wished. As the X-Men confronted Proteus again, the village had already fallen into chaos, and it became a gestalt of the villagers' mindscapes. During the fight Proteus made Fetters Hill erupt, launching seeds into many cities of the world with the objective to transform them as well. The X-Men were eventually able, after a fieriest battle, to disrupt Proteus's energies and dispersed his physical structure while the damage he caused to reality was reversed by Psylocke and X.\n\nProteus is shown to be an inhabitant of Krakoa where he is inhabiting a Professor X husk. He is paired up with Elixir, Hope Summer, Goldballs, and Tempus as the Five where they use their talents to revive the dead mutants.\n\nPiecemeal (Gilbert Benson) is a fictional mutant character in the Marvel Universe. His first appearance was in \"New Mutants Annual\" #7.\n\nYoung Gilbert Benson was a mutant with the ability to absorb different energy frequencies and store them within his body. His mother, the armored mutant mercenary known as Harness who had been employed by Advanced Idea Mechanics, cruelly exploited this ability and forced Gilbert, whom she dubbed Piecemeal, to travel across the world with her to absorb the dispersed energy of Proteus, the deceased reality-warping son of geneticist Moira MacTaggert.\n\nAbsorbing the energy, Piecemeal grew larger and larger until he looked like a 700-pound monstrosity. The mutant team X-Force, alongside the New Warriors and a makeshift group of Muir Island-based X-Men allies, did their best to help siphon off the energy, but they failed. Finally, Gilbert's body exploded, and in that instant his mind combined with that of the reformed Proteus to form a new amalgamated being. The new entity set about warping reality all over Scotland.\n\nThe amalgamated Proteus/Piecemeal also captured their mothers and held them hostage as the pre-government-sponsored X-Factor team arrived. Finally, X-Factor convinced the boys to disperse their energies, consigning them both to oblivion.\n\nProteus is a mutant that possesses a vast psionic ability to manipulate and alter reality. He exists in a state of pure psionic energy and can take possession of human bodies; however, the bodies of most beings burn out within hours or a few days, although a few have been known to last longer. Proteus can leave a body before it is destroyed, but he usually does not. No possessed person has been shown able to resist or break free of Proteus's domination. Proteus has access to all the memories of his host while he possesses them and after he has left the body. Proteus has occasionally exhibited some telepathy, perfect recall, and the ability to mentally download computer information.\n\nOnly living beings with metal in their bodies appear to be immune to the possession, since metal is apparently the only weakness of Proteus. In fact, contact with enough metal in this form can disrupt Proteus's energy and destroy his consciousness, dispersing it, which rendered Wolverine immune to his possession due to his metal skeleton and allowed Colossus to disrupt him in the X-Men's first confrontation with him.\n\nHis reality manipulation powers allow him to transmute matter and bend the laws of physics according to his imagination within a certain range. Using this power he can easily turn a building into liquid, turn a vehicle into bees that attack at his mental command, transform energy into matter, manipulate weather, or strip a person of their mutant powers. He often reverses local gravity, opens fissures in the earth, and stretches people painfully into liquid shapes (they return to normal when he no longer concentrates on manipulating their bodies). Use of this ability tends to speed up the rate at which his body will burn out. Proteus's reality warping ability is contingent upon line of sight: if he shifts his sight to another object and warps it, the previous object he was warping will return to normal.\n\nBecause Proteus is a being made of energy, he is virtually immortal since his consciousness can reform after such a disruption, but he has not shown the ability to do so without assistance. Proteus has at times exhibited the ability to transport himself inter-dimensionally, but it is not known whether he always could do this, or his resurrection by the Scarlet Witch enhanced his powers, or if he needed to use a connection to the Panoptichron in order to accomplish this. After his revival through Destiny during the events of Necrosha, Proteus is shown to be able, to his surprise, to possess multiple individuals simultaneously.\n\nIn the \"Star Trek/X-Men\" crossover, the spirit of Proteus crosses over to the universe of Star Trek because of a rift created by classic Star Trek antagonist Gary Mitchell (who also had reality warping powers). Proteus is able to reanimate and inhabit Mitchell's corpse, which does not deteriorate like other hosts. While chasing Deathbird, the X-Men end up teaming up with the crew of the USS \"Enterprise\" to stop Proteus, who forms an alliance with Deathbird to escape the planet.\n\nAt one point, Proteus compares Mitchell's fate (as seen in the \"\" TV series episode \"Where No Man Has Gone Before\") to the kind of anti-mutant prejudice that the X-Men are fighting.\n\nIn the Ultimate Marvel universe, Proteus is named David Xavier and is the son of Moira MacTaggert and her ex-husband Professor X (Charles Xavier). Like in the mainstream version, he escapes his mother's keep on Muir Island, seeking his father in order to kill him. Proteus kills thousands of people all across the world in an attempt to discredit the X-Men, where he also murders Psylocke's partner Dai Thomas, agent of S.T.R.I.K.E.. Before David can finish his deadly vendetta, he is found to be inside Betsy, traveling to Germany where Betsy fought David for control. After Xavier refused to kill David, Colossus kills them both by crushing them inside a car.\n\nProteus appeared in the two-part animated \"X-Men\" series episode \"Proteus\", voiced by Stuart Stone. Kevin MacTaggert had his reality warping and possession powers, but he also had the ability to change himself back into his human form as well, a power he did not have in the comics. Also, when he took over people's bodies, it did not kill them like it did in the comics, it only weakened them. Proteus himself was somewhat humanized and much less evil; he was a violent, unstable, 17-year-old adolescent with a childlike mentality and little grasp on reality (Moira kept him practically locked in her center for years), and at a certain moment he even saved a young man from being beaten up by a gang of bullies. Kevin/Proteus took off in search for his father; not knowing the truth and craving for his father's love, he blamed his mother Moira for not giving his father a chance. He then attacked Professor X, Rogue, Moira, Wolverine, and Beast, defeating them and making Wolverine experience death, which causes Logan a great deal of psychological damage. Moira tells Professor X that Proteus's father, Joseph, did not want him because he was a mutant. Professor X and the X-Men confront Joseph himself, but he refuses to listen and is only bothered about people finding out he is Kevin's father because he is a mutant. Rogue is set to protect Joseph, and she hears his speech about loving children, thus triggering her to remember her past of when her father rejected her due to her own status as a mutant. Kevin arrives at the hall and attacks Rogue and Beast as Joseph leaves. Professor X tries to reason with Proteus and he blames the Professor for keeping Joseph away from him. Wolverine arrives in time to save Professor X and Beast. Professor X tries to contact Proteus mentally and tells him he can help him, but Proteus insists on seeing his father. Moira says they've tried to reason with him enough and tells them she needs to do something about it now. Kevin arrives at another speech of Joseph's, saying that he wants Joseph to love him but Joseph says that he's a trick and trying to ruin him. Joseph tells him to leave and Kevin gets so mad that he loses control. Professor X manages to stop him by using his psychic powers, calming Kevin down; he returns to his normal shape and gets a hug from Moira. Joseph arrives, apologizes to Kevin, and the two reconcile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300897", "title": "Kielce University of Technology", "text": "Kielce University of Technology\n\nThe Kielce University of Technology () is a relatively young institution, although the traditions of higher education in Kielce go back to the beginning of the 19th century. It was here that Stanisław Staszic founded the Mining Academy, one of the first higher schools in Poland, which operated in the years 1816–1826 and provided qualified personnel to meet the needs of the Old Polish Industrial Basin. Higher education became available in Kielce again in 1965 when Kielce-Radom Evening Higher Engineering School was established. It was transformed into the Kielce University of Technology in 1974.\n\nThe University has five faculties:\n\n\nAt present, over 9,400 students take courses in seven fields of studies: Civil Engineering, Environmental Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Computer Science, Mechanics and Machinery Design, Management and Marketing, Management and Production Engineering. The University is entitled to award a Doctor's degree in five academic disciplines: civil engineering, environmental engineering, electrical engineering, machine building and operation, mechanics, and a degree of Doctor Habilitated in machine building and operation. In the last discipline doctoral courses are also run.\n\nStaff of 403 academic teachers, including 81 Professors and Doctors Habilitated and 153 PhDs together with laboratories (e.g. those of acoustic emission, laser technologies, soil mechanics, cracking mechanics, geometrical quantities measurement or materials strength) provide education in all fields of studies and specializations.\n\n27 bilateral agreements provide basis for collaboration in research and teaching with 50 universities from 27 countries. The University is currently running 10 projects being a part of international programmes and also research tasks, one of which belongs to the Fifth EU Framework Programme.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300903", "title": "Freenote", "text": "Freenote\n\nFreenote is a Japanese Rock band currently consisting of three members: Chikako Hata (Vocals, Piano/Keyboard, Guitar), Masaya Sakamoto (Guitar), and Shingo Ōta(Drums). Formed in Kansai University in 2002, the group's first mini album was published on an indy label on December 3, 2003.\n\nThe band first gained nationwide exposure when their first single, \"Kirai Tune\" (キライチューン), was used as the ending theme for the popular Japanese anime series \"Bobobo-bo Bo-bobo\". Subsequently, they received worldwide exposure (albeit to a much lesser extent) when the series became syndicated for worldwide distribution.\n\nSince then, the group has released a number of singles and two full-length albums, but currently remain critically acclaimed, yet without commercial success on the Japanese pop charts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300909", "title": "Paul Phoenix (Tekken)", "text": "Paul Phoenix (Tekken)\n\nPaul is a short-tempered biker and judo practitioner who repeatedly enters the series' King of Iron Fist tournaments in hopes of winning the prize money and to prove he is the world's best fighter, all while developing a rivalry with the anthropomorphized fighting bear Kuma. He has received mixed critical responses for his personality and his signature hi-top fade hairstyle and has been considered a joke character following his later \"Tekken\" series appearances.\n\nPaul Phoenix is a hotheaded American biker and martial artist who regularly enters the King of Iron Fist fighting tournaments to prove he is \"the toughest fighter in the universe\" while hoping to use the prize money to pay off his debts, yet he falls short of victory each time due to various circumstances. In the first \"Tekken\", Paul battled Kazuya Mishima after an hours-long fight it ended in a draw afterwards he pulled out of the tournament while Kazuya continued and eventually won the entire tournament. He battles his way to the final round in \"Tekken 2\", only to end up having to forfeit after getting stuck in traffic and therefore unable to make the match on time. Paul goes undefeated throughout the tournament in \"Tekken 3\", but after defeating Heihachi Mishima and Ogre, he abruptly leaves the competition under the impression that he has won, when he had one last opponent in Ogre's alter ego, True Ogre. As a result, by \"Tekken 4\", Paul's dojo has gone out of business due to lack of students and he ends up a homeless alcoholic. He again enters the tournament in an attempt to get his life back together.\n\nDuring the first two competitions, Paul had fought and defeated Kuma, a large brown bear trained in combat by Heihachi. After the animal dies of old age, Heihachi trains a replacement, also named Kuma, who beats Paul in the fourth tournament. Paul adopts a new training regimen and gets his revenge against Kuma in \"Tekken 5\", but the match leaves Paul too exhausted to continue in the competition and he is forced to drop out. Again departing the tournament penniless and already burdened by his increasing debt, he wastes no time in entering the sixth tournament in \"Tekken 6\" in hopes of finally easing his financial troubles. This time, he believes assembling a team would increase his chances of victory, and so he joins forces with old friend Marshall Law and boxer Steve Fox.\n\nPaul is selectable in noncanonical spinoff \"Tekken\" games such as \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", \"Tekken Card Challenge\", \"Tekken Advance\", \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", and \"Tekken Revolution\", in addition to the crossover fighting game \"Street Fighter X Tekken\". He is an unlockable character in the 2005 beat-'em-up multiplayer game \"Urban Reign\". He also appears in SNK's mobile phone game \"The King of Fighters All Star\".\n\n\"Tekken\" producer Katsuhiro Harada revealed that Paul was inspired by Japanese manga, specifically a character from the \"JoJo's Bizarre Adventure\" series. Paul is canonically 25 years old at the time of his 1994 \"Tekken\" debut. His default costume throughout the series is a red sleeveless \"judogi\" and black padded gloves, sporting a scorpion tattoo on his right arm. Paul is given a new look for \"Tekken 7\", with his red \"gi\" replaced with casual costumes featuring red, white, and blue themes. A downloadable costume for Paul in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" resembles \"Street Fighter\" character Rufus.\n\nPaul's fighting style is officially classified as \"judo\". \"GameSpy\" considered Paul \"one of the most devastating characters\" in \"Tekken 6\", with \"one of the best low attacks\" and a \"powerful wall game\". Neidel Crisan of 1UP.com wrote of Paul in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" that he had \"a fairly straight forward character with solid combos that may not be flashy, but do a ton of damage,\" but Tristan Damen of \"VentureBeat\" claimed that \"Paul Phoenix, a powerhouse in his native series, is neutered by his inability to fling fireballs.\"\n\nPaul makes a cameo appearance in \"\" as one of the tournament competitors, and is seen carrying an unconscious Michelle Chang out of the exploding Mishima resort near the conclusion, while he has no dialogue. He additionally had main and minor roles in several \"Tekken\" comic book series published between 1997 and 2017.\n\nIn 1998, Epoch Co. released an action figure of Paul in a black leather outfit as part of their \"Tekken 3\" collection, which was packaged with a display stand and an extra set of interchangeable hands.\n\nPaul has received mixed critical reviews for his gameplay, characterization, and distinctive hairstyle. Matt Swider of \"Gaming Target\" ranked him the tenth-best \"Tekken\" character in 2006. In his 2012 preview of \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", Nate Ming of \"Crunchyroll\" described Paul and Marshall Law as \"get-rich-quick schemers\". Kevin Wong of \"Complex\" ranked Paul third among his twenty best \"Tekken\" characters in 2013. Wesley Yin-Poole of \"Eurogamer\" wrote that Paul was his preferred character to play in the original PlayStation port of \"Tekken 3\" due to his design and hard-hitting punch, while Gavin Jasper of \"Den of Geek\" wrote in 2016 that Paul was deserving of being the central character in an eighth \"Tekken\" installment. In an official fan poll held by Namco in 2012, Paul was the third-most requested \"Tekken\" character for inclusion in \"Tekken X Street Fighter\", receiving 15.83% (13,975) of 88,280 votes.\n\nRich Knight of \"Complex\" ranked Paul's \"ridiculous\" \"Tekken 5\" ending second in his 2012 list of the series' fifteen \"craziest\" moments. 4thletter.net ranked it 127th in their 2013 selection of the top 200 fighting game endings, while comparing him to \"Street Fighter\" joke character Dan Hibiki. While \"\" actor Joey Ansah called Paul his favorite \"Tekken\" character in a 2014 interview, he was critical of Paul's role in later series installments as \"a fucking joke.\" \n\nPrint advertising for \"Tekken 2\" featured the slogan: \"Paul Phoenix is about to face 23 fighters. Who's the first person he should kill? His barber.\" In 2010, Michael Grimm of \"GamesRadar\" expressed his desire for a matchup between Paul and \"Street Fighter\" character Guile for the then-unreleased \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", citing \"their awful hair.\" Tom Goulter of \"GamesRadar\" described it as \"\"Street Fighter's\" Ken [having] stuck his finger in an electrical socket.\" Alex Langley of \"Arcade Sushi\" rated it among the \"10 Greatest Video Game Character Hairdos\" in 2013. Liana Kerzner of 411Mania.com rated it fourth in her selection of the \"Top 8 Video Game Hairstyles\" that same year: \"Paul takes the title of King of the Stupid Hair, even if he can never quite win a fighting tournament.\" \"ShortList\" included Paul in a feature titled \"The Rules of Video Game Hairstyles\": \"How he manages to maintain such a cliff-like structure is beyond our grooming knowledge. Oceans of hair spray?\"\n"}
{"id": "2300911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300911", "title": "Elmwood Giants", "text": "Elmwood Giants\n\nThe name Elmwood Giants is used today and was used in the past by various baseball teams since 1905. The current Elmwood Giants Baseball Club, Inc. operates four teams: the Elmwood Giants Juniors (AAA) (members of the Manitoba Junior Baseball League), the Elmwood Giants Juniors (AA) (members of the Winnipeg Junior Baseball League), the Elmwood Giants Seniors (members of the Winnipeg Senior Baseball League) and the Kildonan Mudcats (also members of the Winnipeg Senior Baseball League). In past decades, earlier versions of the club have operated teams at different age levels and in various leagues, including the Mandak League.\n\nThe Elmwood Giants have always been and are a Canadian minor league baseball organization, based in the Elmwood community of Winnipeg, Manitoba. Teams operated by the organization at various levels have known considerable success.\n\nLast year's (2010) edition of the Junior team won the MJBL pennant and the Western Canada Baseball Association Junior AAA championship.\n\nLast year's (2010 edition of the Senior team won the WSBL pennant and the Baseball Manitoba Senior AA All-Stars tournament. They were also finalists (silver medalsts) in the Western Canada Baseball Association Senior AA Championship. They will compete again this year in that same championship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300912", "title": "Party All the Time", "text": "Party All the Time\n\n\"Party All the Time\" is a 1985 single by comedian and actor Eddie Murphy, written and produced by Rick James. It was the lead single from Murphy's debut musical album \"How Could It Be\". The single was recorded at James' home studio in Buffalo, New York. It reached #2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for three weeks, behind \"Say You, Say Me\" by Lionel Richie. Rick James also provided vocals for the song.\n\nThe lyrics are a lament by the singer that despite the expensive, extravagant things he lavishes on his girlfriend, she much prefers spending time going out clubbing, dancing, partying, as well as flirting and cheating with other men, rather than being with her boyfriend and remaining faithful to him.\n\nBarbara Bryson of \"Los Angeles Times\" criticized the song, characterizing it as \"Gumby goes disco\" (referring to the character parodied by Murphy on \"Saturday Night Live\"). The publication also placed the song at #1 on \"The Video Bottom 10\" list.\n\nIn 2006, house DJ and producer Sharam Tayebi of Deep Dish released a remix of the song, known simply as \"PATT\" (an acronym for \"Party All The Time\"), which reached No. 8 on the UK Singles Chart.\n"}
{"id": "2300917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300917", "title": "Duo U&amp;U", "text": "Duo U&amp;U\n\nW promoted the album in Japan with a variety of TV appearances, including a June 2004 special during which they performed alongside Pink Lady as both W and as part of Morning Musume. W and Pink Lady performed the latter's \"Southpaw\" while the full Morning Musume contingent and Pink Lady performed \"Nagisa no Sinbad\" and a medley of Morning Musume's \"LOVE Machine\" and Pink Lady's \"S.O.S.\".\n\nAt the end of July 2004, W \"graduated\" from (i.e. performed their final concert as members of) Morning Musume, allowing them to concentrate on W full-time. \"Duo U&U\" would be the only W album containing all classic J-pop covers, as future single releases would be originals composed by Tsunku and their follow-up album, \"2nd W\", would contain a mix of original material and more classic J-pop covers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300921", "title": "Paravector", "text": "Paravector\n\nThe name paravector is used for the sum of a scalar and a vector in any Clifford algebra (Clifford algebra is also known as geometric algebra in the physics community.)\n\nThis name was given by J. G. Maks, Doctoral Dissertation, Technische Universiteit Delft (Netherlands), 1989.\n\nThe complete algebra of paravectors along with corresponding higher grade generalizations, all in the context of the Euclidean space of three dimensions, is an alternative approach to the spacetime algebra (STA) introduced by David Hestenes. This alternative algebra is called algebra of physical space (APS).\n\nFor Euclidean spaces, the fundamental axiom indicates that the product of a vector with itself is the scalar value of the length squared (positive)\n\nWriting \n\nand introducing this into the expression of the fundamental axiom\n\nwe get the following expression after appealing to the fundamental axiom again\n\nwhich allows to\nidentify the scalar product of two vectors as\n\nAs an important consequence we conclude that two orthogonal vectors (with zero scalar product) anticommute\n\nThe following list represents an instance of a complete basis for the formula_7space,\n\nformula_8\n\nwhich forms an eight-dimensional space, where the multiple indices indicate the product of the respective basis vectors, for example\n\nformula_9\n\nThe grade of a basis element is defined in terms of the vector multiplicity, such that\n\nAccording to the fundamental axiom, two different basis vectors anticommute, \nor in other words,\n\nThis means that the volume element formula_12 squares to formula_13\n\nMoreover, the volume element formula_15 commutes with any other element of the formula_16 algebra, so that it can be identified with the complex number formula_17, whenever there is no danger of confusion. In fact, the volume element formula_15 along with the real scalar forms an algebra isomorphic to the standard complex algebra. The volume element can be used to rewrite an equivalent form of the\nbasis as\n\nThe corresponding paravector basis that combines a real scalar and vectors is\n\nformula_19,\n\nwhich forms a four-dimensional linear space. The paravector space in the three-dimensional Euclidean space formula_7 can be used to represent the space-time of special relativity as expressed in the algebra of physical space (APS).\n\nIt is convenient to write the unit scalar as formula_21, so that\nthe complete basis can be written in a compact form as\n\nformula_22\n\nwhere the Greek indices such as formula_23 run from formula_24 to formula_25.\n\nThe Reversion antiautomorphism is denoted by formula_26. The action of this conjugation is to reverse the order of the geometric product (product between Clifford numbers in general).\n\nformula_27,\n\nwhere vectors and real scalar numbers are invariant under \nreversion conjugation and are said to be real, for example:\n\nformula_28\n\nformula_29\n\nOn the other hand, the trivector and bivectors change sign under reversion\nconjugation and are said to be purely imaginary. The reversion conjugation applied to each basis element is given\nbelow\nThe Clifford Conjugation is denoted by a bar over the object \nformula_30. This conjugation is also called bar conjugation.\n\nClifford conjugation is the combined action of grade involution and reversion.\n\nThe action of the Clifford conjugation on a paravector is to reverse the sign of the\nvectors, maintaining the sign of the real scalar numbers, for example\n\nformula_31\n\nformula_32\n\nThis is due to both scalars and vectors being invariant to reversion ( it is impossible \nto reverse the order of one or no things ) and scalars are of zero order and so are of \neven grade whilst vectors are of odd grade and so undergo a sign change under grade involution.\n\nAs antiautomorphism, the Clifford conjugation is distributed as\n\nformula_33\n\nThe bar conjugation applied to each basis element is given\nbelow\n\nThe grade automorphism\nformula_34\nis defined as the composite action of both the reversion conjugation and Clifford conjugation and has the effect to invert the sign of odd-grade multivectors, while maintaining the even-grade multivectors invariant:\n\nFour special subspaces can be defined in the formula_7 space\nbased on their symmetries under the reversion and Clifford conjugation\n\n\nGiven formula_36 as a general Clifford number, the complementary scalar and vector parts of formula_36 are given by \nsymmetric and antisymmetric combinations with the Clifford conjugation\n\nformula_38\n\nformula_39.\n\nIn similar way, the complementary Real and Imaginary parts of formula_40 are given\nby symmetric and antisymmetric combinations with the Reversion conjugation\n\nformula_41\n\nformula_42.\n\nIt is possible to define four intersections, listed below\n\nThe following table summarizes the grades of the respective subspaces, where for example,\nthe grade 0 can be seen as the intersection of the Real and Scalar subspaces\n\n\nThere are two subspaces that are closed with respect to the product. They are the scalar space and the even space that are isomorphic with the well known algebras of complex numbers and quaternions.\n\n\n\nGiven two paravectors formula_52 and formula_53, the generalization of the scalar product is\n\nformula_54\n\nThe magnitude square of a paravector formula_52 is\n\nformula_56\n\nwhich is not a definite bilinear form and can be equal to zero even if the paravector is not equal to zero. \nIt is very suggestive that the paravector space automatically obeys the metric of the Minkowski space\nbecause\nformula_57\n\nand in particular:\n\nformula_58\n\nformula_59\n\nformula_60\n\nGiven two paravectors formula_52 and formula_53, the biparavector B is\ndefined as:\n\nformula_63.\n\nThe biparavector basis can be written as\n\nformula_64\n\nwhich contains six independent elements, including real and imaginary terms.\nThree real elements (vectors) as \nand three imaginary elements (bivectors) as\nwhere formula_67 run from 1 to 3.\n\nIn the Algebra of physical space,\nthe electromagnetic field is expressed as a biparavector as\nwhere both the electric and magnetic fields are real vectors\nand formula_71 represents the pseudoscalar volume element.\n\nAnother example of biparavector is the representation of the space-time rotation rate that can be expressed as\nwith three ordinary rotation angle variables formula_73 and three rapidities formula_74.\n\nGiven three paravectors formula_52, formula_53 and formula_77, the triparavector T is\ndefined as:\n\nformula_78.\n\nThe triparavector basis can be written as\n\nformula_79\n\nbut there are only four independent triparavectors, so it can be reduced to\n\nformula_80.\n\nThe pseudoscalar basis is\nformula_81\n\nbut a calculation reveals that it contains only a single term. This term is the volume element formula_82.\n\nThe four grades, taken in combination of pairs generate the paravector, biparavector and triparavector spaces as shown in the next table, where for example, we see that the paravector is made of grades 0 and 1\n\nThe paragradient operator is the generalization of the gradient operator in the paravector space. The paragradient in the standard paravector basis is\nwhich allows one to write the d'Alembert operator as\n\nThe standard gradient operator can be defined naturally as\nso that the paragradient can be written as\nwhere formula_87.\n\nThe application of the paragradient operator must be done carefully, always respecting its non-commutative nature. For example, a widely used derivative is \nwhere formula_89 is a scalar function of the coordinates.\n\nThe paragradient is an operator that always acts from the left if the function is a scalar function. However, if the function is not scalar, the paragradient can act from the right as well. For example, the following expression is expanded as\n\nNull paravectors are elements that are not necessarily zero but have magnitude identical to zero. For a null paravector formula_40, this property necessarily implies the following identity\n\nformula_92\n\nIn the context of Special Relativity they are also called lightlike paravectors.\n\nProjectors are null paravectors of the form\n\nformula_93\n\nwhere formula_94 is a unit vector.\n\nA projector formula_95 of this form has a complementary projector formula_96\n\nformula_97\n\nsuch that\n\nformula_98\n\nAs projectors, they are idempotent\n\nformula_99\n\nand the projection of one on the other is zero because they are \nnull paravectors\nformula_100\n\nThe associated unit vector of the projector can be extracted as\n\nformula_101\n\nthis means that formula_102 is an operator\nwith eigenfunctions formula_103 and \nformula_104, with respective eigenvalues \nformula_105 and formula_13.\n\nFrom the previous result, the following identity is valid assuming that formula_107 is analytic around zero\n\nformula_108\n\nThis gives origin to the pacwoman property, such that the following identities are satisfied\n\nformula_109\n\nformula_110\n\nA basis of elements, each one of them null, can be constructed for the complete \nformula_7 space. The basis of interest is the following\n\nformula_112\n\nso that an arbitrary paravector\n\nformula_113\n\ncan be written as\n\nformula_114\n\nThis representation is useful for some systems that are naturally expressed in terms of the\nlight cone variables that are the coefficients of formula_115 and \nformula_116 respectively.\n\nEvery expression in the paravector space can be written in terms of the null basis. A paravector formula_40 is in general parametrized by two real scalars numbers \nformula_118 and a general scalar number formula_119 (including scalar and pseudoscalar numbers)\n\nformula_120\n\nthe paragradient in the null basis is\n\nformula_121\n\nAn n-dimensional Euclidean space allows the existence of multivectors of grade n (n-vectors). The dimension of the vector space is evidently equal to n and a simple combinatorial analysis shows that the dimension of the bivector space is formula_122. In general, the dimension of the multivector space of grade m is formula_123 and the dimension of the whole Clifford algebra formula_124 is formula_125.\n\nA given multivector with homogeneous grade is either invariant or changes sign under the action of the reversion conjugation formula_126. The elements that remain invariant are defined as Hermitian and those that change sign are defined as anti-Hermitian. Grades can thus be classified as follows:\nThe algebra of the formula_16 space is isomorphic to the Pauli matrix algebra such that\n\nfrom which the null basis elements become\nformula_128\n\nA general Clifford number in 3D can be written as\n\nwhere the coefficients formula_130 are scalar elements (including pseudoscalars). The indexes were chosen such that the representation of this Clifford number in terms of the Pauli matrices is\n\nThe reversion conjugation is translated into the Hermitian conjugation and the bar conjugation is translated into the following matrix:\nformula_132\nsuch that the scalar part is translated as\n\nThe rest of the subspaces are translated as\n\nThe matrix representation of a Euclidean space in higher dimensions can be constructed in terms of the Kronecker product of the Pauli matrices, resulting in complex matrices of dimension formula_137. The 4D representation could be taken as\n\nThe 7D representation could be taken as\n\nClifford algebras can be used to represent any classical Lie algebra.\nIn general it is possible to identify Lie algebras of compact groups by using anti-Hermitian elements, \nwhich can be extended to non-compact groups by adding Hermitian elements.\n\nThe bivectors of an n-dimensional Euclidean space are Hermitian elements and can be used to represent the formula_138 Lie algebra.\n\nThe bivectors of the three-dimensional Euclidean space form the formula_139 Lie algebra, which is isomorphic\nto the formula_140 Lie algebra. This accidental isomorphism allows to picture a geometric interpretation of the\nstates of the two dimensional Hilbert space by using the Bloch sphere. One of those systems is the spin 1/2 particle.\n\nThe formula_139 Lie algebra can be extended by adding the three unitary vectors to form a Lie algebra isomorphic\nto the formula_142 Lie algebra, which is the double cover of the Lorentz group formula_143. This isomorphism \nallows the possibility to develop a formalism of special relativity based on formula_142, which is carried out\nin the form of the algebra of physical space.\n\nThere is only one additional accidental isomorphism between a spin Lie algebra and a formula_145 Lie algebra. This \nis the isomorphism between formula_146 and formula_147.\n\nAnother interesting isomorphism exists between formula_148 and formula_149. So, the \nformula_149 Lie algebra can be used to generate the formula_151 group. Despite that this group \nis smaller than the formula_152 group, it is seen to be enough to span the four-dimensional Hilbert space.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300924", "title": "Exultant (novel)", "text": "Exultant (novel)\n\nExultant is a science fiction novel by British author Stephen Baxter. It is part two of the \"Destiny's Children\" series. The book was published by Victor Gollancz Ltd in September 2004.\n\nMuch of the book is written as large sections of prose explaining theoretical exotic-matter physics. Baxter also sketches the evolution of the Xeelee and an imaginary history of the universe in which life is ubiquitous even under the most extreme conditions.\n\n\"Exultant\" is set in Baxter's \"Xeelee Sequence\" twenty thousand years into the Third Expansion of Mankind, \"a titanic project undertaken by a mankind united by the Doctrines forged by Hama Druz after mankind's near extinction.\" The human-supremacist Interim Coalition of Governance has conquered almost the whole Milky Way — all but the alien Xeelee concentrated at the galactic core around a supermassive black hole called Chandra. The mysterious Xeelee are far more advanced but less numerous than the humans, and the war has been at a stalemate for three millennia even though the entire Coalition has been directed toward the war effort and ten billion humans die at the front every year. In a war fought with faster-than-light technology (equivalent to time travel), each side has foreknowledge of the other's actions and can develop counter-measures to plans before they are made.\n\nPirius is a fighter pilot stationed at the front. When a battle turns to disaster for the Coalition forces, he disobeys suicide orders to stand and fight, choosing instead to risk survival. In a desperate gamble to outrun a pursuing Xeelee, Pirius captures a Xeelee fighter for the first time in history. Returning to base via FTL travel, he arrives two years previous to the battle, when his younger self is still a cadet. Rather than being lauded as a hero, both instances of Pirius are court-martialed for disobeying orders.\n\nCommissary Nilis of the Office of Technological Archival and Control, part of the Commission for Historical Truth, defends both the older Pirius (whom he calls \"Pirius Blue\") and the younger one (\"Pirius Red\") but loses the trial. Pirius Blue is sent to a penal unit at the front as a foot soldier, and Pirius Red is remanded to the custody of Commissary Nilis, who has plans for the fruits of Pirius Blue's battlefield victory. Using the Xeelee fighter and the innovative tactics that saved Pirius Blue, he starts to plan an unheard of assault on the Xeelee's primary stronghold at Chandra itself.\n\nWhile Nilis and his new team struggle to confront ossified government and military institutions, they try to understand and to develop new and sometimes alien technologies: FTL computers, a gravastar shield to protect them from FTL foreknowledge, and a black hole gun, capable of disrupting a supermassive black hole's event horizon. Meanwhile, in the course of his new duties to Commissary Nilis, Pirius Red is practically taken on a tour of the Solar system and some of the Coalition's most scandalous secrets, rife with references to events from previous books in the Xeelee sequence.\n\nAs Nilis's project nears completion, it transpires that the Chandra black hole is home to not only the Xeelee, but a host of other organisms, many of which are based on exotic physics and non-baryonic matter. Regardless, the assault on the black hole continues despite protestations from Nilis. After a brutal fight to reach the surface of the black hole, the team commence their assault, causing the Xeelee to abandon it (and the rest of the Milky Way galaxy) to prevent humanity from harming the black hole's inhabitants.\n\nAfter the assault, the protagonists realise that the Coalition is unlikely to remain intact, now that the war with the Xeelee is no longer present to hold it together. Luru Parz, one of the team, realises that the Xeelee will eventually return, and returns to Earth to ready its defences for when the return happens.\n"}
{"id": "2300925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300925", "title": "List of female movie actors by name: M", "text": "List of female movie actors by name: M\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of notable female movie actors with a last name that begins with the letter M.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300926", "title": "Billy Milano", "text": "Billy Milano\n\nBilly Milano is a Bronx-born heavy metal musician now based in Austin, Texas. He is the singer and - occasionally - guitarist and bassist of crossover thrash band M.O.D., and he was also the singer of its predecessor, Stormtroopers of Death. He was also the singer of United Forces, which also featured his Stormtroopers of Death bandmate Dan Lilker.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300927", "title": "Habesha peoples", "text": "Habesha peoples\n\nHabesha peoples (; or rarely used exonyms, (Abyssinian people) or ) is a common pan-ethnic and meta-ethnic term used to refer to both Ethiopians and Eritreans as a whole. In a narrow archaic definition, the Ethiosemitic-speaking and Agwa-speaking Cushitic peoples inhabiting the highlands of Ethiopia and Eritrea were considered the core linguistically, culturally and ancestrally related ethnic groups that historically constituted the pan-ethnic group Habesha peoples, but in a broader contemporary sense includes all Ethiopian-Eritrean ethnic groups. Population groups that make up the Habesha peoples trace their culture and ancestry back to the Kingdom of Dʿmt, the Kingdom of Aksum, and the various constituent kingdoms, predecessor states, and successor states of the Ethiopian Empire in the Horn of Africa.\n\nThere are varying definitions of who identifies as an Abyssinian (more accurately known as an \"Habesha\"). These definitions vary from community to community, from Western anthropological theories to day-to-day usage, from generation to generation, and between the various diaspora groups and communities that still reside in their ancestral homeland. Differences in usage can be found among different communities and people within the same constituent ethnic group. Historically, Habesha represented northern Ethiopian Highlanders (who were predominately Orthodox Tewahedo Christian) while the Oromos and \"\"Shanqella\"\" ethnic groups, as well as Muslims adherents, were considered outside the periphery Predominately Muslim ethnic groups in the Eritrean Highlands such as the Tigre have historically opposed the name Habesha and have had preferences for the title Jabarta. According to sociologist Asafa Jalata, past Abyssinian regimes had once attempted to create a form of \"\"Habesha identity\"\" which entailed converting various ethnic groups to Orthodox Tewahedo Christianity and forcing them to adopt Amharic or Tigrayan languages. While according to more contemporary studies done by S. M. Oliphant on Ethiopian Immigration Experiences in the United States at the Catholic University of America in conjunction with Catholic Charities Migration and Refugee Services which works with Ethiopian and Eritrean immigrants, the study shows that Habesha identity — more evidently in the context of diaspora communities — is used as an inclusive pan-ethnic identifier for Ethiopians, Eritreans, and the various ethnic groups they comprise. Some non-exhaustive examples are the Tigre and Oromo ethnic groups as stated in the study. Mary Goitom, a researcher at York University studying the usage of the term \"Habesha\" among Ethiopian and Eritrean youth in the Toronto, Ontario, Canada area, also had similar findings as Oliphant’s study in that Ethiopian and Eritrean youth use 'Habesha' as a \"supra-national\" multi-ethnic term to signify their shared cultural identity but in contrast, Goitom does mention the existence of an older narrow definition for the term even though her current findings show that a more broader \"supra-national\", multi-ethnic, and inclusive definition has emerged. According to these studies, neither Oliphant nor Goitom make the assertions that non-Highlander ethnic groups would have to abandon the non-Amhara or non-Tigray aspects of their culture and identity under the contemporary usage of the term \"Habesha\", while Goitom's study shows the generational tension between the \"‘only Ethiopian and Eritrean Highlanders are Habesha' faction vs. 'all ethnic groups of Ethiopian and Eritrean ancestry are Habesha’\" factions of the cultural debate. \n\nThe General Definition for the term \"Habesha,\" has varying usages that are used by various groups and generations, both within their ethnic homelands and in the diaspora.\n\n\"Following the Hellenic and Biblical traditions, the Monumentum Adulitanum, a third century inscription belonging to the Aksumite Empire, indicates that Aksum's then ruler governed an area which was flanked to the west by the territory of Ethiopia and Sasu. The Aksumite King Ezana would eventually conquer Nubia the following century, and the Aksumites thereafter appropriated the designation \"Ethiopians\" for their own kingdom. In the Ge'ez version of the Ezana inscription, Aἰθιόποι is equated with the unvocalized Ḥbštm and Ḥbśt (Ḥabashat), and denotes for the first time the highland inhabitants of Aksum. This new demonym would subsequently be rendered as 'ḥbs('Aḥbāsh) in Sabaic and later into ሐበሻ (‘Ḥabasha’ or ‘Abesha’) which today denotes all Ethiopians and Eritreans as part of the Habesha Community.\"\n\nAcceptance of these various definitions of \"Habesha\" Identity are partially rooted in history, traditional culture, personal taste, and modern life realities the diaspora face. Term \"Habesha\" as a cultural or pan-ethnic identity has a varied acceptance among various communities, even within the same ethnic groups. One reason is that the term is ambiguous and different definitions can be used by different factions. Another reasons is that the term fell out of use and was replaced with various singular ethnic identities prior to its reemergence among diaspora children and young adults wanting to consolidate societal power for representation in Western society.\n\nDuring the Zemene Mesafint in the Horn of Africa, there were various territorial conflicts between various principalities with infighting between the majority Orthodox Christian northern highlands and the Muslim majority southern regions. The majority-Orthodox Christian Northern Ethiopian Highlands (mostly the Amhara, Tigray, and Agawa) were referred to as 'Habesha' in contrast to the various Islamic Sultanates once controlled south lowland regions. This Definition is built on the notion that Northern Highlanders of Orthodox Christian religion are the only Habesha peoples, thus contrasting them with other religions and most Southern Lowland ethnic groups. While generally speaking Habesha peoples are of any religion, and that this definition reflected the religious and ethnic makeup of the warring factions during that time.\n\nHabesha diaspora - the peoples of the Ethiopian Empire and its successor states of Eritrea and Ethiopia have migrated over the years due to political unrest, ethnic tensions, and civil wars like the Ethiopian Revolution, Red Terror (Ethiopia), Ethiopian Civil War, 1983–1985 famine in Ethiopia and Eritrea, Eritrean War of Independence, Eritrean–Ethiopian War, and other present conflicts and upheavals. The Habesha peoples have used various ethnological names like \"Abyssinians\", \"Erthyreneans\", \"Habesha\", \"Eritrean\", or \"Ethiopian\" depending on when they fled, their national origin, their political position, regional ancestry, or which of the approximately 85 to 89 constituent ethnic groups they come from.\n\n\nThere is a difference between the Western theoretical version of the etymological origin of the term \"Habesha\" and the way it was used historical or by Habeshas themselves. In contrast to popular Western claims, the term is neither Arabic in origin nor does it specifically refer to Ethiosemitic-speaking peoples. The oldest reference to Habesha was made by Queen Hatshepsut in 1450 BC, in reference to \"a foreign people from the incense producing countries\" like Punt. \"Habesha\" also means “incense gatherer“ in the Mehri language. The Mehra (Mehari) people are the native non-Arab inhabitants of Yemen, Oman, and Socotra. They are the direct descendants of the Sabeans, Himyarites, and to an extent are genetically related to the Cushites and linguistically related to the Ethiosemitic-speaking subgroups of Cushitic Peoples in Sub-Saharan Northeast/Horn of Africa. It is also possible that the Land of Punt covered both the Horn of Africa and Southern Arabia. \nIn Arabic, the elevated plateau on the east of the Nile, from which most of the waters of that river are derived, is called Habesh, and its people Habshi. The modern term derives from the vocalized \"Ḥabaśā\", first written with a script that did not mark vowels as \"ḤBŚ\" or in \"pseudo-Sabaic as \"ḤBŠTM\"\". The earliest known use of the term dates to the second or third century Sabaean inscription recounting the defeat of the \"nəgus\" (\"king\") GDRT of Aksum and ḤBŠT. The term \"Habashat\" appears to refer to a group of peoples, rather than a specific ethnicity. A Sabaean inscription describes an alliance between Shamir Yuhahmid of the Himyarite Kingdom and King `DBH of Aksum in the first quarter of the third century. They had lived alongside the Sabaeans, who lived across the Red Sea from them for many centuries:\nThe term \"Habesha\" was formerly thought by some scholars to be of Arabic descent because the English name Abyssinia comes from the Arabic form. (Arabs used the word \"Ḥabaš\", also the name of an Ottoman province, Habesh Eyalet, comprising parts of modern-day Eritrea). South Arabian expert Eduard Glaser claimed that the hieroglyphic \"ḫbstjw\", used in reference to \"a foreign people from the incense-producing regions\" (i.e. Punt, located in Eritrea, Northern Somalia, and northeast Ethiopia) used by Queen Hatshepsut c. 1460 BC, was the first usage of the term or somehow connected.\n\nBased on the inscriptions the Aksumites left behind, they did not regard themselves or their territory as Habesha. For them, Habeshas likely meant people who collected incense in South Arabia. Cosmas Indicopleustes, the Greek-speaking Egyptian traveler who visited the Kingdom of Aksum in 525, also made no reference to Habesha. According to Dr. Eduard Glaser, an Austrian epigraphist and historian, \"Habesha\" was originally used to refer to a kingdom in southeastern Yemen located east of the Hadhramaut kingdom in what is now Al Mahrah Governorate. He believed the etymology of Habesha must have derived from the Mehri language, which means “gatherers” (as in gatherers of incense). It was not until long after Aksumite kingdom had ended that Gulf Arab travelers and geographers began to describe the Horn region as Al-Habash. The first among these travelers were Al-Mas`udi and Al-Harrani.\n\nAl-Masudi, a tenth-century Gulf Arab traveler to the region, described Habesha country in his geographical work \"The Meadows of Gold\". He wrote that \"the chief town of the Habasha is called Kuʿbar, which is a large town and the residence of the Najashi (nagassi; king), whose empire extends to the coasts opposite the Yemen, and possesses such towns as Zayla, Dahlak and Nasi.\" Al-Harrani, another Gulf Arab traveler, also asserted in 1295 CE that \"one of the greatest and best-known towns is Kaʿbar, which is the royal town of the najashi ... Zaylaʿ, a town on the coast of the Red Sea, is a very populous commercial center... . Opposite al-Yaman there is also a big town, which is the seaport from which the Habasha crossed the sea to al-Yaman, and nearby is the island of ʿAql.\"\n\nBy the end of the 8th century, most of the prominent Yemeni kingdoms ended and areas they once controlled were under foreign occupation. Yemen's turbulence, coupled with its ecological volatility likely shifted the international trade of incense from South Arabia to the Horn region. With Habasha originally used to describe people who gathered incense, this term was also given to the region by early Gulf Arab merchants and travelers as a geographic expression that some of the inhabitants of the Horn adopted over time.\n\nWhen Portuguese missionaries arrived in the interior of what is present-day Ethiopia in the early 16th century CE, they took the altered word Abesha (without the letter “H” beginning) which is used by Ethiopian Amharic speakers of the time and subsequently Latinized it to \"Abassia\", \"Abassinos\", ;\"Abessina\" and finally into \"Abyssinia\". This Abyssinia term was widely used as a geographic expression for centuries, even though it was a term not used by the local inhabitants.\n\nAbyssinian civilization has its roots in the pre-Aksumite culture. An early kingdom to arise was that of D'mt in the 8th century BC. The Kingdom of Aksum, one of the powerful civilizations of the ancient world, was based there from about 150 BC to the mid of 12th century AD. Spreading far beyond the city of Aksum, it molded the one of the earliest cultures of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Architectural remains include finely carved stelae, extensive palaces, and ancient places of worship that are still being used.\n\nAround the time that the Aksumite empire began to decline, the burgeoning religion of Islam made its first inroads in the Abyssinian highlands. During the first Hegira, the companions of prophet Muhammad were received in the Aksumite kingdom. The Sultanate of Showa, established around 896, was one of the oldest local Muslim states. It was centered in the former Shewa province in central Ethiopia. The polity was succeeded by the Sultanate of Ifat around 1285. Ifat was governed from its capital at Zeila in northern Somalia and was the easternmost district of the former Shewa Sultanate.\n\nThroughout history, populations in the Horn of Africa had been interacting through migration, trade, warfare and intermarriage. Most people in the region \n\nspoke Afroasiatic languages, with the family's Cushitic and Semitic branches predominant. As early as the 3rd millennium BCE, the pre-Aksumites had begun trading along the Red Sea. They mainly traded with Egypt. Earlier trade expeditions were taken by foot along the Nile Valley. The ancient Egyptians' main objective in the Red Sea trade was to acquire myrrh. This was a commodity that the Horn region, which the ancient Egyptians referred to as the Land of Punt, had in abundance. Much of the incense is produced in Somalia to this day.\n\nThe Kingdom of Aksum may have been founded as early as 300 BCE. Very little is known of the time period between the mid-1st millennium BCE to the beginning of Aksum's rise around the 1st century CE. It is thought to be a successor kingdom of Dʿmt, a kingdom in the early 1st millennium BC most likely centered at nearby Yeha.\n\nThe Kingdom of Aksum was situated in northern Ethiopia and Eritrea, with its capital city in Northern Ethiopia. Axum remained its capital until the 7th century. The kingdom was favorably located near the Blue Nile basin and the Afar depression. The former is rich in gold and the latter in salt: both materials having a highly important use to the Aksumites. Aksum was accessible to the port of Adulis, Eritrea on the coast of the Red Sea. The kingdom traded with Egypt, India, Arabia and the Byzantine Empire. Aksum's \"fertile\" and \"well-watered\" location produced enough food for its population. Wild animals included elephants and rhinoceros.\n\nFrom its capital, Aksum commanded the trade of ivory. It also dominated the trade route in the Red Sea leading to the Gulf of Aden. Its success depended on resourceful techniques, production of coins, steady migrations of Greco-Roman merchants, and ships landing at Adulis. In exchange for Aksum's goods, traders bid many kinds of cloth, jewelry, metals and steel for weapons.\n\nAt its peak, Aksum controlled territories as far as southern Egypt, east to the Gulf of Aden, south to the Omo River, and west to the Nubian Kingdom of Meroë. The South Arabian kingdom of the Himyarites and also a portion of western Saudi Arabia was also under the power of Aksum. Their descendants include the present-day ethnic groups known as the Amhara, Tigrayans and Gurage peoples.\n\nAfter the fall of Aksum due to declining sea trade from fierce competition by Muslims and changing climate, the power base of the kingdom migrated south and shifted its capital to Kubar (near Agew). They moved southwards because, even though the Axumite Kingdom welcomed and protected the companions of Prophet Muhammad to Ethiopia, who came as refugees to escape the persecution of the ruling families of Mecca and earned the friendship and respect of the Prophet. Their friendship deteriorated when South-Arabians invaded the Dahlak islands through the port of Adulis and destroyed it, which was the economic backbone for the prosperous Aksumite Kingdom. Fearing of what recently occurred, Axum shifted its capital near Agew] In the middle of the sixteenth century Adal Sultanate armies led by Harar leader Ahmed Gragn invaded Habesha lands in what is known as the \"\"Conquest of Habasha\"\". Following Gragn invasions the southern part of the Empire was lost to Ethiopia and scattered Habesha like the Gurage people were cut off from the rest of Abyssinia. In the late sixteenth century the nomadic Oromo people penetrated the Habesha plains occupying large territories during the Oromo migrations. Abyssinian warlords often competed with each other for dominance of the realm. The Amharas seemed to gain the upper hand with the accession of Yekuno Amlak of Ancient Bete Amhara in 1270, after defeating the Agaw lords of Lasta (in those days a non-Semitic-speaking region of Abyssinia)\n\nThe Gondarian dynasty, which since the 16th century had become the centre of Royal pomp and ceremony of Abyssinia, finally lost its influence as a result of the emergence of powerful regional lords, following the murder of Iyasu I, also known as Iyasu the Great. The decline in the prestige of the dynasty led to the semi-anarchic era of Zemene Mesafint (\"Era of the Princes\"), in which rival warlords fought for power and the Yejju Oromo \"enderase\"s (\"regents\") had effective control. The emperors were considered to be figureheads. Until a young man named Kassa Haile Giorgis also known as Emperor Tewodros brought end to \"Zemene Mesafint\" by defeating all his rivals and took the throne in 1855. The Tigrayans made only a brief return to the throne in the person of Yohannes IV in 1872, whose death in 1889 resulted in the power base shifting back to the dominant Amharic-speaking elite. His successor Menelik II an Emperor of Amhara origin seized power. League of Nations in 1935 reported that after the invasion of Menelik's forces into non Abyssinian lands of Somalis, Harari, Oromo, Sidama, Shanqella etc, the inhabitants were enslaved and heavily taxed by the gebbar system leading to depopulation.\n\nSome scholars consider the Amhara to have been Ethiopia's ruling elite for centuries, represented by the Solomonic line of Emperors ending in Haile Selassie I. Marcos Lemma and other scholars dispute the accuracy of such a statement, arguing that other ethnic groups have always been active in the country's politics. This confusion may largely stem from the mislabeling of all Amharic-speakers as \"Amhara\", and the fact that many people from other ethnic groups have adopted Amharic names. Another is the claim that most Ethiopians can trace their ancestry to multiple ethnic groups, including the last self-proclaimed emperor Haile Selassie I and his Empress Itege Menen Asfaw of Ambassel.\n\nThe Imperial family of Ethiopia (which is currently in exile) claims its origin directly from descent from Solomon and the Queen of Sheba ( \"nigiśta Śabʿa\"), who is named \"Makeda\" () in the Ethiopian account. The Ethiopian narrative \"Kebra Negast\" (\"Glory of Kings\"), written in 1225 AD contains an account of Makeda and her descendants. Solomon is said in this account to have seduced the Queen, and sired a son by her, who would eventually become Menelik I, the first Emperor of Ethiopia. The tradition that the biblical Queen of Sheba was an ingenuous ruler of Ethiopia who visited King Solomon in Jerusalem is repeated in a 1st-century account by the Roman Jewish historian Josephus. He identified Solomon’s visitor as a queen of Egypt and Ethiopia. There is no primary evidence, archaeological or textual, for the queen in Ethiopia. The impressive ruins at Aksum are a thousand years too late for a queen contemporary with Solomon, based on traditional dates for him of the 10th century BC.\n\nIn the past, European scholars including Hiob Ludolf and Carlo Conti Rossini postulated that the ancient communities that evolved into the modern Ethiopian state were formed by a migration across the Red Sea of Semitic-speaking South Arabians around 1000 BC, who intermarried with local non-Semitic-speaking peoples. Both the indigenous languages of Southern Arabia and the Amharic and Tigrinya languages of Ethiopia belong to the large branch of South Semitic languages which in turn is part of the Afro-Asiatic Language Family. Even though the Ethiosemitic languages are classified under the South Semitic languages branch with a Cushitic language substratum, Edward Ullendorff and Carlo Conti Rossini's theory that Ethioemitic-language speakers of the northern Ethiopian Highlands were ancient foreigners from Southwestern Arabia has been disputed by most modern indigenous Horn African scholars like Messay Kebede and Daniel E. Alemu. Ethiopian scholars specializing in Ethiopian Studies such as Messay Kebede and Daniel E. Alemu generally disagree with this theory arguing that the migration was one of reciprocal exchange, if it even occurred at all.\n\nKebede states the following:\n\n\"This is not to say that events associated with conquest, conflict and resistance did not occur. No doubt, they must have been frequent. But the crucial difference lies in the propensity to present them, not as the process by which an alien majority imposed its rule but as part of an ongoing struggle of native forces competing for supremacy in the region. The elimination of the alien ruler indigenize Ethiopian history in terms of local actors.\".\n\nScholars have determined that the ancient Semitic language of Ethiopia was not derived from an Old South Arabian language such as Sabaean. There is evidence of a Semitic-speaking presence in Ethiopia and Eritrea as early as 2000 BC. There is also evidence of ancient Southern Arabian communities in modern-day Ethiopia and Eritrea in certain localities, attested by some archaeological artifacts and ancient Sabaean inscriptions in the old South Arabian alphabet. However, Stuart Munro-Hay points to the existence of an older D'MT kingdom, prior to any Sabaean migration c. 4th or 5th century BC, as well as evidence that Sabaean immigrants had resided in Ethiopia for little more than a few decades at the time of the inscriptions. Archeological evidence has revealed a region called \"Saba\" in Northern Ethiopia and Eritrea; it is now referred to as \"Ethiopian Saba\" to avoid confusion.\n\nEssentially no archaeological evidence supports the story of the Queen of Sheba. \"In the 21st century, scholars have largely discounted the longstanding presumption that Sabaean migrants had played a direct role in Ethiopian civilization.\" Munro-May and related scholars believe that Sabaean influence was minor, limited to a few localities, and disappearing after a few decades or a century. It may have represented a trading colony (tarding post) or military installations in a symbiotic or military alliance between the Sabaens and D`MT.\n\nIn the reign of King Ezana, c. early 4th century AD, the term \"Ethiopia\" is listed as one of the nine regions under his domain, translated in the Greek version of his inscription as \"Aithiopía.\" This is the first known use of this term to describe specifically the region known today as Ethiopia (and not Kush or the entire African and Indian region outside of Egypt). The 6th-century author Stephanus of Byzantium later used the term \"Αβασηγοί\" (i.e. Abasēnoi) to refer to:\nan Arabian people living next to the Sabaeans together with the Ḥaḍramites. The region of the Abasēnoi produce[d] myrrh, incense and cotton and they cultivate[d] a plant which yields a purple dye (probably \"wars\", i.e. \"Fleminga Grahamiana\"). It lies on a route which leads from Zabīd on the coastal plain to the Ḥimyarite capital Ẓafār.\n\nAbasēnoi was located by Hermann von Wissman as a region in the \"Jabal Ḥubaysh\" () mountain in Ibb Governorate, perhaps related in etymology with the ḥbš Semitic root). Other place names in Yemen contain the ḥbš root, such as the Jabal Ḥabaši, whose residents are still called \"al-Aḥbuš\" (pl. of \"Ḥabaš\"). The location of the Abasēnoi in Yemen may perhaps be explained by remnant Aksumite populations from the 520s conquest by King Kaleb. King Ezana's claims to Sahlen (Saba) and Dhu-Raydan (Himyar) during a time when such control was unlikely may indicate an Aksumite presence or coastal foothold. Traditional scholarship has assumed that the Habashat were a tribe from modern-day Yemen that migrated to Ethiopia and Eritrea. However, the Sabaic inscriptions only use the term ḥbšt to the refer to the Kingdom of Aksum and its inhabitants, especially during the 3rd century, when the ḥbšt (Aksumites) were often at war with the Sabaeans and Himyraites.\n\nBefore the 20th century, the Sabean theory was the most common one explaining the origins of the Habesha. It was first suggested by German orientalist Hiob Ludolf and revived by early 20th-century Italian scholar Conti Rossini. They said that at an early epoch, South Arabian tribes, including one called the \"\"Habashat,\"\" emigrated across the Red Sea from Yemen to Eritrea. According to this theory, Sabaeans brought with them South Arabian letters and language, which gradually evolved into the Ge'ez language and Ge'ez script. Linguists have revealed, however, that although its script developed from Epigraphic South Arabian (whose oldest inscriptions are found in Yemen, Ethiopia and Eritrea) used to write the Old South Arabian languages, Ge'ez is descended from a different branch of Semitic, Ethiosemitic or Ethiopic sub-branch.\n\nThe large corpus of South Arabian inscriptions does not mention any migration to the west coast of the Red Sea, nor of a tribe called \"Habashat.\" All uses of the term date to the 3rd century AD and later, when they referred to the people of the Kingdom of Aksum. In the 21st century, the Sabean theory has largely been abandoned. Edward Ullendorff has asserted that the Tigrayans and the Amhara comprise \"Abyssinians proper\" and a \"Semitic outpost,\" while Donald N. Levine has argued that this view \"neglects the crucial role of non-Semitic elements in Ethiopian culture.\" Edward Ullendorff and Carlo Conti Rossini's theory that Ethioemitic-language speakers of the northern Ethiopian Highlands were ancient foreigners from Southwestern Arabia that displaced the original peoples of the Horn, has been disputed by most modern indigenous Horn African scholars like Messay Kebede, Daniel E. Alemu, and others. Genetically, culturally, and geographically speaking Habeshas (Abyssinian people) are traditionally Cushitic Peoples.\n\nEthiopia and Sudan are among the main areas linguists suggest were the Afro-Asiatic \"Urheimat\". Recent linguistic studies as to the origin of the Ethiosemitic languages seem to support the DNA findings of immigration from the Arabian Peninsula, with a recent study using Bayesian computational phylogenetic techniques finding that \"contemporary Ethiosemitic languages of Africa reflect a single introduction of early Ethiosemitic from southern Arabia approximately 2,800 years ago\", and that this single introduction of Ethiosemitic subsequently underwent quick diversification within Ethiopia and Eritrea.\n\nThere are many theories regarding the beginning of the Abyssinian civilization. One theory, which is more widely accepted today, locates its origins in the Horn region. At a later period, this culture was exposed to Judaic influence, of which the best-known examples are the Qemant and Ethiopian Jews (or Beta Israel) ethnic groups, but Judaic customs, terminology, and beliefs can be found amongst the dominant culture of the Amhara and Tigrinya. Some scholars have claimed that the Indian alphabets had been used to create the vowel system of the Ge'ez abugida, this claim has not yet been effectively proven.\n\nThe Habesha developed an agricultural society, which most continue, including raising of camels, donkeys, and sheep. They plow using oxen. The Orthodox Church is an integral part of the culture. The church buildings are built on hills. Major celebrations during the year are held around the church, where people gather from villages all around to sing, play games, and observe the unique mass of the church. It includes a procession through the church grounds and environs.\n\nCoffee is a very important ceremonial drink. The \"coffee ceremony\" is common to the Ethiopians and Eritreans. Beans are roasted on the spot, ground, and brewed, served thick and rich in tiny ceramic cups with no handles. This amount of coffee can be finished in one gulp if drunk cold; but, traditionally it is drunk very slowly as conversation takes place. When the beans are roasted to smoking, they are passed around the table, where the smoke becomes a blessing on the diners. The traditional food served at these meals consists of injera, a spongy flat bread, served with \"wat\", a spicy meat sauce.\n\nHouses in rural areas are built mostly from rock and dirt, the most available resources, with structure provided by timber poles. The houses blend in easily with the natural surroundings. Many times the nearest water source is more than a kilometer away from the house. In addition, people must search for fuel for their fires throughout the surrounding area.\n\nThe Habesha people have a rich heritage of music and dance, using drums and stringed instruments tuned to a pentatonic scale. Arts and crafts and secular music are performed mostly by artisans, who are regarded with suspicion. Sacred music is performed and icons are painted only by men trained in monasteries.\n\nAbyssinians speak languages belonging to the Ethiopian Semitic branch of the Afroasiatic family. Among these tongues is the classical Ge'ez language. The kingdom of Dʿmt wrote proto-Ge'ez in Epigraphic South Arabian as early as the 9th century BCE. Later, an independent script replaced it as early as the 5th century BCE.\n\nGe'ez literature is considered to begin with the adoption of Christianity in Ethiopia and Eritrea, as well as the civilization of Axum in the 4th century BCE during the reign of Ezana. While Ge'ez today is extinct and only used for liturgical purposes in the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church and Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church. Ge'ez language is ancestral to Tigre and Tigrinya languages.\n\nSome historians in the past have labelled the Ethiopian Semitic languages as the \"Abyssinian languages\". They are mainly spoken by the Amhara, the Tigrayans, the Tigre, the Gurage, the Argobba and the Harari people. In antiquity Ge'ez-speaking people inhabited Axum empire; the ancient Semitic-speaking Gafat inhabited Eastern Damot (East Welega) and Western Shewa; the Galila clan of Aymallal (Sodo) inhabited Southwest Shewa; the Zay inhabited East Shewa; the Harla who are the ancestors of Harari lived in Somalia; and the other ancient Argobba and Harari inhabited Shewa, Ifat, and Adal.\n\nThroughout history, various European travelers such as Jeronimo Lobo, James Bruce and Mansfield Parkyns visited Abyssinia. Their written accounts about their experiences include observations and descriptions of the Abyssinian customs and manners.\n\n\nHabesha cuisine characteristically consists of vegetable and often very spicy meat dishes, usually in the form of \"wat\" (also \"w'et\" or \"wot\"), a thick stew, served atop \"injera\", a large sourdough flatbread, which is about in diameter and made out of fermented teff flour. People of Ethiopia and Eritrea eat exclusively with their right hands, using pieces of \"injera\" to pick up bites of entrées and side dishes.\n\n\"Fit-fit,\" or \"fir-fir,\" is a common breakfast dish. It is made from shredded \"injera\" or \"kitcha\" stir-fried with spices or wat. Another popular breakfast food is \"fatira.\" The delicacy consists of a large fried pancake made with flour, often with a layer of egg, eaten with honey. \"Chechebsa\" (or \"kita firfir\") resembles a pancake covered with \"berbere\" and \"niter kibbeh\", or spices, and may be eaten with a spoon. A porridge, \"genfo\" is another common breakfast dish. It is usually served in a large bowl with a dug-out made in the middle of the genfo and filled with spiced \"niter kibbeh\".\n\n\"Wat\" begins with a large amount of chopped red onion, which is simmered or sauteed in a pot. Once the onions have softened, \"niter kebbeh\" (or, in the case of vegan dishes, vegetable oil) is added. Following this, \"berbere\" is added to make a spicy \"keiy wat\" or \"keyyih tsebhi\". Turmeric is used instead of \"bebere\" for a milder \"alicha wat\" or both are omitted when making vegetable stews, \"atkilt wat\". Meat such as beef (, \"səga\"), chicken (, \"doro\") or ), fish (, \"asa\"), goat or lamb (, \"beg\" or ) is also added. Legumes such as split peas (, \"kək\" or ) or lentils (, \"məsər\" or \"birsin\"); or vegetables such as potatoes (, \"Dənəch\"), carrots and chard () are also used instead in vegan dishes.\n\nAnother distinctively Habesha dish is \"kitfo\" (frequently spelled \"ketfo\"). It consists of raw (or rare) beef mince marinated in \"mitmita\" (Ge'ez: ሚጥሚጣ \"mīṭmīṭā\", a very spicy chili powder similar to the \"berbere\") and \"niter kibbeh\". \"Gored gored\" is very similar to \"kitfo\", but uses cubed rather than ground beef. The Ethiopian Orthodox Church prescribes a number of fasting (\"tsom\" , \"ṣōm\") periods, including Wednesdays, Fridays, and the entire Lenten season; so Habesha cuisine contains many dishes that are vegan.\n\n\nThe \"habesha kemis\" is the traditional attire of Habesha women. The ankle length dress is usually worn by Ethiopian and Eritrean women at formal events. It is made of chiffon, and typically comes in white, grey or beige shades. Many women also wrap a shawl called a \"netela\" around the formal dress.\n\nThe \"netela\" or \"netsela\" is a handmade cloth many Ethiopian women use to cover their head and shoulders when they wear clothing made out of chiffon, especially when attending church. It is made up of two layers of fabric, unlike \"gabi\", which is made out of four. \"Kuta\" is the male version.\n\nAn \"Ethiopian or Eritrean suit\" is the traditional formal wear of Habesha men. It consists of a long sleeve, knee-length shirt, and matching pants. Most shirts are made with a Mandarin, band, or Nehru collar. The suit is made of chiffon, which is a sheer silk or rayon cloth. The \"netela\" shawl or a \"kuta\" is wrapped around the suit.\n\nThe Habesha empire centered in Axum and Adowa was part of the world in which Christianity grew. The arrival of Christianity in Northern Ethiopia and Eritrea happened around the 4th century. The Aksumites, in fact, had been converted to Christianity hundreds of years before most of Europe. Many of their churches were cut into cliffs or from single blocks of stone, as they were in Turkey and in parts of Greece, where Christianity had existed from its earliest years. The church is a central feature of communities and of each family's daily life. Each community has a church with a patron saint.\n\nEthiopia has often been mentioned in the Bible. A well-known example of this is the story of the Ethiopian eunuch as written in Acts (8: 27): \"Then the angel of the Lord said to Philip, Start out and go south to the road that leads down from Jerusalem to Gaza. So he set out and was on his way when he caught sight of an Ethiopian. This man was a eunuch, a high official of the Kandake (Candace) Queen of Ethiopia in charge of all her treasure.\" The passage continues by describing how Philip helped the Ethiopian understand one passage of Isaiah that the Ethiopian was reading. After the Ethiopian received an explanation of the passage, he requested that Philip baptize him, which Philip obliged. Queen Gersamot Hendeke VII (very similar to Kandake) was the Queen of Ethiopia from the year 42 to 52. The Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church was founded in the 4th century by Syrian monks. Historically, the Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church and Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church have had strong ties with the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria, the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria appointing the archbishop for the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church. They gained independence from the Coptic Orthodox Church of Alexandria in the 1950s, although the Eritrean Orthodox Tewahedo Church has recently reforged the link.\nA number of unique beliefs and practices distinguish Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity from other Christian groups; for example, the Ark of the Covenant is very important. Every Ethiopian church has a replica of the Ark. Also, the Ethiopian Church has a larger biblical canon than other churches.\n\nChurch services are conducted in Ge´ez, the ancient language of Ethiopia and Eritrea. Ge´ez is no longer a living language, its use now confined to liturgical contexts, occupying a similar place in Eritrean and Ethiopian church life to Latin in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nOther Ethiopian and Eritrean Orthodox practices include such things as fasting, prescribed prayers, and devotion to saints and angels. A child is never left alone until baptism and cleansing rituals are performed. Boys are baptized forty days after birth, whereas girls are baptized eighty days after birth.\n\nDefrocked priests and deacons commonly function as diviners, who are the main healers. Spirit possession is common, affecting primarily women. Women are also the normal spirit mediums. A debtera is an itinerant lay priest figure trained by the Church as a scribe, cantor, and often as a folk healer, who may also function in roles comparable to a deacon or exorcist. Folklore and legends ascribe the role of magician to the debtera as well.\n\nA small number of Abyssinian Christians adhere to various forms of Pentecostalism or Anabaptism, collectively known as P'ent'ay.\n\nThe Ethiopian church places a heavier emphasis on Old Testament teachings than one might find in the Roman Catholic or Protestant churches, and its followers adhere to certain practices that one finds in Orthodox or Conservative Judaism. Ethiopian Christians, like some other Eastern Christians, traditionally follow dietary rules that are similar to Jewish Kashrut, specifically with regard to how an animal is slaughtered. Similarly, pork is prohibited, though unlike Kashrut, Ethiopian cuisine does mix dairy products with meat- which in turn makes it even closer to Islamic dietary laws (see Halal). Women are prohibited from entering the church during their menses; they are also expected to cover their hair with a large scarf (or \"shash\") while in church in keeping with . As with Orthodox synagogues, men and women are seated separately in the Ethiopian church, with men on the left and women on the right (when facing the altar). However, women covering their heads and separation of the sexes in the Church building officially is common to many Oriental Orthodox, Eastern Orthodox and Catholic Christians and not unique to Judaism. Ethiopian Orthodox worshippers remove their shoes when entering a church, in accordance with (in which Moses, while viewing the burning bush, is commanded to remove his shoes while standing on holy ground). Furthermore, both the Sabbath (Saturday), and the Lord's Day (Sunday) are observed as holy, although more emphasis, because of the Resurrection of Jesus Christ, is laid upon the Holy Sunday.\n\nIslam in Ethiopia and Eritrea dates to 615. During that year, a group of Muslims were counseled by Muhammad to escape persecution in Mecca and migrate to Abyssinia, which was ruled by, in Muhammad's estimation, a pious Christian king (\"al-najashi\"). Muhammad's followers crossed the Red Sea and sought refuge in the Kingdom of Aksum, possibly settling at Negash, a place in present-day Tigray Region. Moreover, Islamic tradition states that Bilal, one of the foremost companions of Muhammad, was from Abyssinia, as were many non-Arab Companions of Muhammad; in fact, Abyssinians were the single largest non-Arab ethnic group who were Muhammad's companions. Among these was Umm Ayman who cared for Muhammad during his infancy, a woman that he referred to as \"mother\". Abyssinia was thus the earliest home outside of Arabia for the dispersal of the Islamic world faith. One third(34%) of Ethiopia's population are Muslims by last census (2007).\n\nMost of Ethiopia and Eritrea's Muslims are Sunni Muslims, much like the majority of the Muslim world, hence the beliefs and practices of the Muslims of Ethiopia and Eritrea are basically the same: embodied in the Qur'an and the Sunnah. There are also Sufi orders present in Ethiopia. According to the 1994 census of Ethiopia (with similar numbers for the 1984 census), about a third of its population is adherent of Islam and members of the Muslim community can be found throughout the country. Islam in Ethiopia is the predominant religion in the regions of Somali, Afar, Berta, and the section of Oromia east of the Great Rift Valley, as well as in Jimma. Islam in Eritrea is the predominant religion of all the ethnic groups except for the Tigrayan people, the Bilen people, and the Kunama people.\n\nThe most important Islamic religious practices, such as the daily ritual prayers (\"ṣalāt\") and fasting ( \"ṣawm\", Ethiopic , \"ṣom\" – used by local Christians as well) during the holy month of Ramadan, are observed both in urban centers as well as in rural areas, among both settled peoples and nomads. Numerous Ethiopian Muslims perform the pilgrimage to Mecca every year.\n\nJudaism in Ethiopia is believed to date from very ancient times. Precisely what its early history was, however, remains obscure. The now dominant Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo Church claims it originated from the visit of the Queen of Sheba to King Solomon back in the 10th century BCE. This visit is mentioned in the Hebrew Scriptures (I Kings 10:1), Sheba was a kingdom that stretched from Ethiopia to the south of the Yemen. Yemen is very close to Ethiopia across the Red Sea, and it has been recorded that modern Ethiopia has been heavily influenced by the ancient Sabean kingdom. Moreover, the details of the queen's visit, including the alleged theft of the Holy Ark as well as Solomon getting her pregnant with a child who established the \"Solomonic\" lineage in Ethiopia, as given in Christian Ethiopian tradition, were written in the Kebra Nagast the Ethiopian chronicle of its early history. The oldest known existing copies of the book date from as far back as the 13th century. Jewish Ethiopians are mentioned in both the Torah Old Testament as well as the Christian New Testament. It is clear that the Jewish presence in Ethiopia dates back at least 2,500 years.\nThe Jewish Pre-settlement Theory essentially states that starting around the 8th century BCE until about the 5th century BCE, there was an influx of Jewish settlers both from Egypt & Sudan in the north, and southern Arabia in the east.\n\nThe chief Semitic languages of Ethiopia also suggest an antiquity of Judaism in Ethiopia. \"There still remains the curious circumstance that a number of Abyssinian words connected with religion—Hell, idol, Easter, purification, alms—are of Hebrew origin. These words must have been derived directly from a Jewish source, for the Abyssinian Church knows the scriptures only in a Ge'ez version made from the Septuagint.\"\n\nBeta Israel traditions claim that the Ethiopian Jews are descended from the lineage of Moses himself, some of whose children and relatives are said to have separated from the other Children of Israel after the Exodus and gone southwards, or, alternatively or together with this, that they are descended from the tribe of Dan, which fled southwards down the Arabian coastal lands from Judaea at the time of the breakup of the Kingdom of Israel into two kingdoms in the 10th century BCE. (precipitated by the oppressive demands of Rehoboam, King Solomon's heir), or at the time of the destruction of the northern kingdom of Israel in the 8th century BCE. Certainly there was trade as early as the time of King Solomon down along the Red Sea to the Yemen and even as far as India, according to the Bible, and there would, therefore, have been Jewish settlements at various points along the trade routes. There is definite archaeological evidence of Jewish settlements and of their cultural influence on both sides of the Red Sea well at least 2,500 years ago, both along the Arabian coast and in the Yemen, on the eastern side, and along the southern Egyptian and Sudanese coastal regions.\n\nSome notable Habeshas include: Alemayehu Fentaw Weldemariam, Mohamed Hikam Sheikh Abdirahman, Amsalu Aklilu, Mickaël Bethe-Selassié, and Gebre Kristos Desta.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300930", "title": "Wetterhorn Peak", "text": "Wetterhorn Peak\n\nWetterhorn Peak (\"Wetterhorn\" is German and means \"Weather Horn\") is a fourteen thousand foot mountain peak in the U.S. state of Colorado. It is located in the Uncompahgre Wilderness of the northern San Juan Mountains, in northwestern Hinsdale County and southeastern Ouray County, east of the town of Ouray. It lies west of Uncompahgre Peak.\n\nWetterhorn Peak, and its neighbor Matterhorn Peak, , are named after the Wetterhorn and the Matterhorn, two famous peaks in the Swiss Alps. Both Colorado peaks are pointed rock spires (hence resembling their namesake peaks), whose shapes contrast with the broad bulk of the higher Uncompahgre Peak.\n\nThe first recorded ascent of the peak was made in 1906 by George Barnard, C. Smedley, W. P. Smedley, and D. Utter, but a previous ascent by miners working in the area in the 19th century is likely.\n\nThe standard, and only common, route on Wetterhorn Peak is the southeast ridge, which is accessed via the Matterhorn Creek drainage on the south side of the mountain. The trailhead is on the Henson Creek Road, accessible from Lake City. The route involves of ascent from the trailhead and some exposed scrambling (Class 3/4) on the ridge itself. The nearby east face is considered a high-quality advanced snow climb or extreme ski descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300939", "title": "Helen of Greece and Denmark", "text": "Helen of Greece and Denmark\n\nHelen of Greece and Denmark (, \"Eleni\"; ; 2 May 1896 – 28 November 1982), was the queen mother of Romania during the reign of her son King Michael (1940–1947). She was noted for her humanitarian efforts to save Romanian Jews during World War II, which led to her being awarded by the State of Israel with the honorific of \"Righteous Among the Nations\" in 1993.\n\nDaughter of King Constantine I of Greece and his wife, Princess Sophia of Prussia, Princess Helen spent her childhood in Greece, Great Britain and Germany. The outbreak of World War I and the overthrow of her father by the Allies in 1917 permanently marked her and also separated her from her favorite brother, the young Alexander I of Greece. Exiled in Switzerland along with most members of the royal family, Helen then spent several months caring for her father, plagued by disease and depression. In 1920, the princess met Carol, Crown Prince of Romania, who quickly asked her hand in marriage. Despite the bad reputation of the prince, Helen accepted and moved to Romania, where she soon gave birth to their only son, Prince Michael, in 1921.\n\nThe situation of her family, however, continued to worry Helen, who made several trips abroad to visit her parents when they did not simply reside with her in Bucharest. In doing this, she distanced herself from her husband, whose multiple affairs ended when he fell in love with Magda Lupescu in 1924. Finally, in 1925, Prince Carol abandoned his wife and renounced the throne in order to live openly with his mistress. Distraught, Helen tried to persuade her husband to return to her but eventually she accepted the divorce in 1928. In the meanwhile, Helen was proclaimed \"Queen Mother of Romania\" in 1927, as her son Michael ascended to the throne under the regency of his uncle Prince Nicholas. However, the political situation in Romania was complicated and Carol took advantage of the increased instability to return to Bucharest in 1930 and be acclaimed as king. Soon, the new ruler forced his ex-wife into exile and only authorized her to see their son two months per year.\n\nIn these circumstances, Helen moved to Villa Sparta at Fiesole, Tuscany. Always close to her family, she hosted her sisters Irene and Katherine and brother Paul, who stayed with her intermittently until the restoration of the Greek monarchy in 1935. The outbreak of World War II, the deposition of Carol II and the subsequent dismemberment of Greater Romania in 1940, however, brought Helen back to be with her son in Bucharest. Subject to the dictatorship of General Antonescu and vigilance of Nazi Germany, the king and his mother were cautious in their dealings with the fascist regime. They did not show their opposition to the participation of Romania in the invasion of the Soviet Union and the deportation of Jews. Finally, King Michael organized a coup against Antonescu on 23 August 1944 and Romania turned against the Axis powers; however, the country was, in the end, occupied by the Red Army.\n\nFor Helen and her son, the post-war period was marked by the interference of the Soviet Union in the Romanian political life. In March 1945, the king was forced to accept a communist government headed by Petru Groza while the following year, the rigged general elections confirmed the hegemony of the PCR in the country. Finally, Michael I was forced to abdicate on 30 December 1947 and the royal family took the path of exile. Helen then returned to the Villa Sparta, where she divided her time among her family, gardening and the study of Italian art. Increasingly concerned about her finances, Helen finally left Italy for Switzerland in 1979 and died three years later with her son at her side.\n\nThe third child and eldest daughter of Crown Prince Constantine of Greece and Princess Sophia of Prussia, Helen was born on 2 May 1896 in Athens during the reign of her grandfather, King George I. From birth, she received the nickname \"Sitta\" as her brother Alexander failed to correctly pronounce the English word \"sister\". Growing up, Helen developed a special affection for Alexander, only three years her senior.\n\nHelen spent most of her childhood in the Greek capital. Every summer, the princess and her family, travelled to the Hellenic Mediterranean aboard the royal yacht \"Amphitrite\" or visited Sophia's mother, the Dowager Empress Victoria in Germany. From the age of 8, Helen began to spend part of the summer in Great Britain, in the regions of Seaford and Eastbourne. The princess grew up in an strongly anglophile environment, among a cohort of British tutors and governesses, including Miss Nichols, who took special care of her.\n\nOn 28 August 1909 a group of Greek officers, known as the \"Military League,\" organized a coup d'état (called the Goudi coup) against the government of King George I, Helen's grandfather. While declaring to be monarchists, the League members, led by Nikolaos Zorbas, asked the king to dismiss his son from military posts. Officially, this was to protect the \"Diadochos\" from the jealousy that could stem from his friendship with some soldiers. But the reality was quite different: the officers blamed Constantine for the defeat of Greece against the Ottoman Empire during the Thirty Days' War of 1897.\n\nThe situation was so tense that the sons of George I were finally forced to resign from their military posts to save their father from the shame of their being expelled. The \"Diadochos\" also decided to leave Greece with his wife and children. For several months, the family moved to the \"Schloss Friedrichshof\" at Kronberg in Germany. It was the first of many times that the 14-years-old Princess Helen would have to go into exile.\n\nAfter much tension, the political situation eventually subsided in Greece and Constantine and his family were allowed to return to their homeland. In 1911, the \"Diadochos\" was restored in his military duties by the Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos. A year later, the First Balkan War broke out, which allowed Greece to annex large territories in Macedonia, Epirus, Crete and the North Aegean. It was also at the end of this conflict that King George I was assassinated in Thessaloniki on 18 March 1913 and Helen's father succeeded him on the Hellenic throne as King Constantine I.\n\nAfter these events, Helen spent long weeks touring Greece, of which she previously only knew the main towns and the island of Corfu. With her father and brother Alexander, she travelled in Greek Macedonia and the various battlefields of the First Balkan War. However, this period of calm was short-lived as the Second Balkan War broke out in June 1913. Once again, Greece emerged victorious from the conflict, allowing it to significantly expand its territory, which grew by 68% after the signing of the Treaty of Bucharest.\n\nDuring World War I, King Constantine I first sought to maintain Greece in a position of neutrality. He considered that his country was not yet ready to participate in a new conflict after the Balkan Wars. But, educated in Germany and linked to Emperor William II (who was his brother-in-law), Constantine I was quickly accused of supporting the Triple Alliance and wishing for the defeat of the Allies. The king quickly fell out with his Prime Minister Venizelos, who was convinced of the need to support the countries of the Triple Entente to fulfill the so-called \"Megali Idea\". In October 1916, Venizelos, protected by the Entente countries, and in particular by the French Republic, formed a parallel government in Thessaloniki. Central Greece was occupied by the allied forces and the country was soon in the middle of a civil war, the so-called National Schism.\n\nWeakened by all these tensions, Constantine I became seriously ill in 1915. Suffering from pleurisy aggravated by a pneumonia, he remained in bed for several weeks and nearly died. In Greece, public opinion was affected by the rumor, spread by Venizelists, that the king was not sick but that Queen Sophia in fact injured him in the course of an argument where she tried to force him to fight alongside the emperor. The health of the sovereign declined so much, that a ship was sent to the Island of Tinos in order to seek the miraculous Icon of the Virgin and Child, which was supposed to heal the sick. After kissing the holy picture, the king partially recovered his health. But the situation remained worrying and the king was in need of surgery before he could reasume his duties. These events had a special impact on Princess Helen, who was very close to her father: impressed by his recovery, she developed a deep religiosity, a trait that she would retain throughout her life.\n\nDespite these difficulties, Constantine I refused to change his policies and was faced with the increasingly clear opposition of the Triple Entente and Venizelists. Thus, on 1 December 1916 the so-called Greek Vespers took place where the Allied soldiers fought against Greek reservists in Athens and the French fleet bombarded the Royal Palace. On this occasion, Helen was nearly killed by a gunfire from the Zappeion. After hearing the gunshots and worried for the life of her father, the princess ran to the gardens of the royal palace but was saved by the royal Garde du Corps which took her back inside the palace.\n\nFinally, on 10 June 1917, Charles Jonnart, the Allied High Commissioner in Greece, asked the king for his abdication. Under the threat of an invasion in Piraeus, the king agreed and went into exile, but without formally abdicating. The Allies did not wish to establish a Republic in Greece, so one of the members of the royal family had to stay and succeed him. Because the \"Diadochos\" George was also considered pro-German like his father, they wanted someone considered malleable, as a puppet ruler of Constantine I's enemies. Finally the younger brother of the \"Diadochos\", Prince Alexander, was chosen by Venizelos and the Triple Entente as the new king.\n\nOn 11 June 1917 the Greek royal family secretly fled from their palace, surrounded by a loyalist mob that refused to see them go. In the days that followed, Constantine I, Queen Sophia and five of their children left Greece from the port of Oropos and took the road to exile. This was the last time that Helen saw her favorite brother. In fact, on their return to power, the Venizelists prohibited any contact between King Alexander I and the rest of the royal family.\n\nAfter crossing the Ionian Sea and Italy, Helen and her family settled in Switzerland, mainly among the cities of St. Moritz, Zürich and Lucerne. In exile, Helen's parents were soon followed by almost all members of the royal family, who left their country with the return of Venizelos as Prime Minister and the entry of Greece to the war alongside the Triple Entente. However, the financial position of the royal family was precarious and Constantine I, haunted by a deep sense of failure, soon fell ill. In 1918, he contracted Spanish flu and again was close to death.\n\nVery concerned about the fate of their father, Helen and her sisters Irene and Katherine spent a long time with him to distract him from his worries. Helen also sought to reconnect with Alexander I. She tried to take advantage of the visit of her brother to Paris in 1919 to call him by phone. However, the officer who escorted the king in the French capital refused to pass along either her communications or those of other members of the royal family.\n\nIn 1920, the Greek exiles were visited in Lucerne by Queen Marie of Romania (Sophia's first cousin) and her daughters Elisabeth, Maria and Ileana. Worried about the future of her eldest and still single son, the \"Diadochos\" George, who had already proposed to Princess Elisabeth a few years earlier, Queen Sophia was anxious for him to marry. Homeless, penniless and without any real political value since his exclusion from the Greek throne in 1917, Helen's elder brother reiterated his request of marriage to Princess Elizabeth, who, despite her initial reticence, finally decided to accept. Pleased with the union, the Queen of Romania then invited her future son-in-law and his sisters Helen and Irene to go to Bucharest in order to publicly announce the royal engagement. The princesses accepted and the departure was set to 2 October. In the meanwhile, another member of the Romanian royal family arrived to Lucerne. This was Elisabeth's brother, the Crown Prince Carol, who had just completed a trip around the world which he had undertaken in order to forget his morganatic wife Zizi Lambrino and their son Carol.\n\nIn Romania George, Helen and Irene were received with pomp by the royal family. Housed at Pelișor Castle, they were a central part of the celebrations for the return of Crown Prince Carol to his country (10 October) and the announcement of the engagement of Elisabeth with the \"Diadochos\" (12 October). The stay of the Greek princes, however, was brief. On 24 October, a telegram arrived which announced the death in Zurich of the Dowager Duchess of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha, who was the mother of the queen of Romania. The very next day, another message arrived informing the Greek princes that Alexander I had suddenly died in Athens, following a monkey bite.\n\nUnder these circumstances, the three Greek princes and Queen Marie of Romania decided to make an emergency return to Switzerland. Moved by the situation and probably pushed by his mother, Crown Prince Carol at the last moment decided to travel along with them. After being cold and distant to Helen during her stay at Romania, the crown prince suddenly turned very attentive to the princess. During the train journey, the two told their life stories to each other and Carol confided in Helen about his affair with Zizi Lambrino. Helen likewise told him of her life and of family matters, including her great grief for her brother Alexander's death and how she did not want to return to Greece now that her only real friend, her beloved brother, was dead. This opening of the hearts to each other had the result that Helen fell in love with the heir to the Romanian throne.\n\nSoon after their arrival in Switzerland, Crown Prince Carol asked for Helen's hand in marriage, much to the joy of the queen of Romania, but not to the princess' parents. Helen was determined to accept the marriage proposal, therefore King Constantine I assented to the engagement, but only after the marriage of Carol and Zizi Lambrino could be quickly dissolved. For her part, Queen Sophia was much less favorable to her daughter's wedding. Having no confidence in the Romanian crown prince, she tried to convince Helen to reject the proposal. However, Helen insisted, and despite the doubts of her mother, the engagement was announced in Zürich in November 1920.\n\nMeanwhile, in Greece, the Venizelists lost the election in favor of Constantine I's supporters on 14 November 1920. Desiring to resolve the dynastic question, on 5 December the new cabinet organized a referendum, the disputed results of which showed that 99% of the population demanded the restoration of the sovereign. Under these conditions, the royal family returned to Athens and Helen was accompanied by her fiancé on her return. For two months, the two traveled discovering inner Greece and its ancient ruins. They then went to Bucharest to attend the wedding of \"Diadochos\" George with Elisabeth of Romania (27 February 1921) before returning to Athens to celebrate their own wedding in the Metropolitan Cathedral on 10 March 1921. Being the first Greek princess to marry in Athens, Helen wore the Romanian 'Greek Key' tiara, a gift from her mother-in-law. The newlyweds then spent their honeymoon in Tatoi, where they remained for two months before returning to Romania, on 8 May 1921.\n\nUpon her return to Romania, Helen was already pregnant. She spent some time with Carol at the Cotroceni Palace, where the pomp and protocol of the Court both impressed and bored her at the same time. The couple then took up residence at the Foișor, an elegant Swiss-style chalet built in the surroundings of Peleș Castle, at Sinaia. It was there that the crown princess gave birth after only seven and a half months after her wedding. Her only child, Prince Michael, named in honor to Michael the Brave, the first unifier of the Danubian Principalities, was born on 25 October 1921; the childbirth was difficult and required surgery. The ordeal significantly weakened Helen, and the doctors forbade her from having a second pregnancy.\n\nOnce the crown princess had recovered, in December 1921 the couple moved to Bucharest, in a large villa at the Șoseaua Kiseleff. Despite their significantly different points of interest, Carol and Helen managed, for some time, to lead a bourgeois and happy existence. In the mornings, the heir performed his official duties and in the afternoons, they enjoyed their favorite past times. While the crown prince engaged in reading and his stamp collections, Helen spent her time engaged in horseback riding or on the decoration of their residences. The crown princess was very involved in social work and founded a nursing school in the capital. She was also appointed an Honorary Colonel of the 9th Cavalry Regiment, the \"Roșiori\".\n\nIn the meantime, the political situation was deteriorating in Greece. The Hellenic Kingdom endured a period of unrest during the Greco-Turkish War, and by 1919 the health of King Constantine I was deteriorating once again. Worried about the future of her father, Helen asked for her husband's permission to return to Greece. The couple and their child thus left for Athens at the end of January 1922. But while Carol left Greece in February to attend the betrothal of his sister Maria to King Alexander I of Yugoslavia, Helen remained with her parents until April, when she returned to Romania, bringing her sister Irene. By that time, the crown prince had resumed his affair with his former mistress, the actress Mirella Marcovici.\n\nIn June 1922, Carol and Helen went to Belgrade with the whole Romanian royal family to attend the wedding of Alexander I and Maria. Back in Bucharest, the crown princess then resumed her role as wife of the heir to the throne. She participated in official acts and supported the sovereign and her husband during ceremonies that punctuated the life of the monarchy. Like many women of her rank, Helen was also interested in social works. Nevertheless, she continued to be worried for her family, and even visited her sister Irene, her aunt Maria and her Greek cousins in an futile attempt to console herself about the remoteness of her parents.\n\nIn September 1922, a military coup forced King Constantine I to abdicate in favor of his son George II, and to go into exile. Without any real power and dominated by the revolutionaries, after a failed coup of a pro-royalist group (the so-called Leonardopoulos–Gargalidis coup d'état) in October 1923, the new sovereign in turn was forced to abdicate after only fifteen months of reign. Devastated by these events, Helen immediately went to Italy to be with her parents in their exile. Shortly after the coronation of King Ferdinand I and Queen Marie of Romania in Alba Iulia on 15 October 1922, Helen left for Palermo, where she remained until the death of her father, on 11 January 1923.\n\nBored by the absence of his wife, Carol finally invited his mother-in-law to stay in Bucharest. However, the dowager queen did not arrive alone: with her, and without warning, came no fewer than 15 Greek princes and princesses, to his home. Increasingly irritated by the invasive presence of his wife's family, Carol also was hurt by Helen's attitude because she refused to fulfil her marital duties. Jealous, the crown prince suspected that his wife had begun an affair with the charming Prince Amedeo of Savoy, Duke of Aosta, a regular guest of the Greek royal couple in Sicily. It was due to these circumstances that Helen and Carol began their separation, though the crown princess saved appearances by devoting more time to the education of her son, Prince Michael.\n\nIn the summer of 1924, Carol met Elena Lupescu (better known under the name of \"Magda\" Lupescu), with whom he began an affair in or around 14 February 1925. This was not the first extramarital relationship of the crown prince since his marriage. However, for Carol, this time there was a serious bond, a fact that would soon worry not only Helen (always of a conciliatory and tolerant disposition with her husband's infidelities) but also the rest of the Romanian royal family, which feared that Lupescu could turn into a new Zizi Lambrino. In November 1925, Carol was sent to the United Kingdom to represent the royal family at the funeral of the Dowager Queen Alexandra. Despite several promises made to his father, King Ferdinand I, he took advantage of traveling abroad to find his mistress and openly live out their relationship. Refusing to return to Bucharest, Carol finally officially renounced the throne and prerogatives as crown prince on 28 December 1925.\n\nIn Romania, Helen was distraught by Carol's attitude, especially as Queen Marie made her partly responsible for the failure of her marriage. The crown princess wrote to her husband to convince him to return. She also attempted to convince politicians to delay Carol's exclusion to the royal succession and proposed to her in-laws that she herself take a trip to meet with her husband. However, the Prime Minister Ion Brătianu, who despised the crown prince because of his sympathy to the National Peasants' Party, categorically opposed. The head of government even accelerated the exclusion procedures by summoning both Houses of the Parliament to register the act of renunciation and appoint little Prince Michael as the new heir to the throne.\n\nOn 4 January 1926, the Romanian Parliament ratified the acceptance of Carol's renunciation and a royal ordinance was issued giving Helen the title princess of Romania; in addition, she was included in the Civil list, a privilege previously reserved to the sovereign and the heir to the throne. After King Ferdinand I was diagnosed with cancer, a Regency Council was also formed during Michael's minority with Prince Nicholas as the Head, assisted by Patriarch Miron and the magistrate Gheorghe Buzdugan, replaced after his death in 1929 by Constantine Sărățeanu. Despite this, Helen continued to hope for the return of her husband and obstinately refused requests for a divorce that he sent to her from abroad.\n\nIn June 1926, shortly before the death of her father-in-law, Helen went to Italy to attend the funeral of her paternal grandmother, Dowager Queen Olga of Greece, and moved with her mother to the \"Villa Bobolina\" in Fiesole. The princess took advantage of her stay in Italy and to try to arrange for an encounter with her husband but, having initially accepted to see her, Carol canceled the meeting at the last minute.\n\nIn the spring of 1927, Queen Marie made an official visit to the United States. During her absence, Helen and her sister-in-law Elisabeth took of care of King Ferdinand I, whose health declined rapidly. The king died on 20 July 1927 at Peleș Castle and his 5-year-old grandson succeeded him under the name of Michael I while the Regency Council took over the direction of the country. However, in Romania, Carol retained many supporters (soon nicknamed \"Carlists\") and the National Liberal Party began to fear the return of the Prince.\n\nAfter trying to convince her husband to go to Bucharest, Helen gradually changed her attitude towards him. Anxious to preserve the rights of her son and probably convinced by Prime Minister Barbu Știrbey, the princess requested a divorce, which she easily obtained. On 21 June 1928, the marriage was dissolved by the Romanian Supreme Court on the grounds of incompatibility. Helen also distanced herself from her mother-in-law, who complained of being separated from the young king and criticized more openly the Greek entourage of the Princess. Under these circumstances, the dowager queen approached her eldest son and built ties with the Carlist movement.\n\nAfter the Regency Council failed to govern the country, Carol appeared increasingly as a providential man who could solve the problems of Romania. Still, his supporters (as Prime Minister Iuliu Maniu, leader of the National Peasants' Party) continued to demand his separation from Magda Lupescu and his reconciliation with Helen, which he refused. Thanks to his many supporters in the country, the prince finally organized his return to Bucharest on the night of 6–7 June 1930. Joyfully welcomed by the population and the political class, he then proclaimed himself king under the name of Carol II.\n\nWhen he came to power, Carol II initially refused to see Helen though he expressed his desire to meet his son, demoted to the rank of heir-apparent to the throne with the title of \"Grand Voivod of Alba Iulia\" by the Romanian Parliament (8 June 1930). In order to be reunited with Michael, the king therefore resolved to meet to his former wife. Accompanied by his brother Nicholas and his sister Elizabeth, he visited the princess in her villa in the Șoseaua Kiseleff. At the sight of her former husband, Helen showed coldness but she had no other alternative than to offer him her friendship for the sake of their child.\n\nIn the following weeks, Helen suffered the combined pressures of politicians and the Romanian Orthodox Church, who were trying to persuade her to reasume her conjugal life with Carol II and accept to be crowned along with him at a ceremony in Alba Iulia, scheduled on 21 September 1930. Despite her reluctance, the princess agreed to a reconciliation and reconsidered the annulment of her divorce, but under the condition of having a separate residence. These were the circumstances under which the former spouses lived and while Carol II sometimes went to Helen for lunch with her, the princess would, from time to time, have tea with him in the royal palace. In July, the king, his former wife and son traveled together in Sinaia but while Carol II moved to \"Foișor\", Helen and Michael stayed at Peleș Castle. Each day, the family gathered for tea and, on 20 July, Carol II and Helen appeared publicly together on the occasion of a ceremony in memory of King Ferdinand I.\n\nIn August 1930, the government presented a decree to Carol II for his signature officially confirming Helen as \"Her Majesty, the Queen of Romania.\" The king, however, crossed this out and declared Helen to be \"Her Majesty Helen\" (i.e. with the style Majesty, but not the title Queen). Helen refused to allow anyone to use this style in her presence. Due to these circumstances, the proposed coronation of the two former spouses was postponed. The return of Magda Lupescu to Romania finally put an end to the reconciliation efforts of the pair. Soon the king was able to get Michael moved to his side, and Helen was allowed to see her son every day in exchange for her political silence. Increasingly isolated, the princess was forced into exile by her former husband, she concented to a separation agreement in October 1931. In exchange for her silence, and through the mediation of her brother, the former King George II of Greece, and her sister-in-law Elisabeth, Helen then obtained a substantial monetary compensation. With the approval of Carol II, she obtained the right to stay four months a year in Romania and to receive her son abroad during two months of the year. She retained her residence in Bucharest and the king agreed to fund his maintenance during his absence. Especially, Helen received a sum of thirty million lei to buy a home abroad and in addition she obtained an annual pension of seven million lei.\n\nIn November 1931, Helen left Romania for Germany, where she went to the bedside of her mother, the Dowager Queen Sophia of Greece, seriously ill with cancer. After her death on 13 January 1932, Helen bought her house in Fiesole, Tuscany, which she used as her main residence. In this large house, that she renamed Villa Sparta, the princess received the visit of her sisters Irene and Katherine and her brother Paul, who remained with Helen on long stays.\n\nDespite the distance, the friction between Helen and Carol II continued. In September 1932, a visit from Michael and his mother to the United Kingdom was used by Helen as an opportunity for a new, very public conflict, which soon made the headlines of the international press, just as Helen wanted. The king wanted the crown prince not to wear shorts in public, and that he not be photographed in the company of his mother. Helen was incensed at the second stipulation and, as was her wont, took the trouble to aggravate the situation by defying the first stipulation as well. She made sure her son was dressed in shorts and posed for the cameras with him at her side for an extended photo opportunity. After seeing the spectacle of the crown prince in shorts published in the newspapers, the king demanded that the heir to the throne be brought back to Bucharest. Helen now decided to grant an interview to the \"Daily Mail\" \"in the hope,\" she said, \"that public opinion would help to preserve her parental rights\". This was followed by a violent press campaign, which enraged the king. Despite these events, Helen chose to return to Romania for Michael's birthday and threatened to go to the International Court of Justice if Carol II did not allow her to see their son.\n\nBack in Bucharest, the princess tried, without much success, to get the government involved in a case against the king. She then turned again to her sister-in-law, the former queen of the Hellenes. However, the latter was deeply shocked by the interview given to the \"Daily Mail\", and the two women had a violent fight during their reunion, where Elisabeth even slapped Helen. Carol II then considered his former wife as a political opponent, and in order to undermine her prestige, the king initiated a campaign in the press against her, claiming that she had tried to commit suicide twice. After only a month in the country, Carol II imposed a new separation agreement (1 November 1932), under which Helen was denied the right to return to Romania and the next day, finally forced her into permanent exile in Italy. During the following years, she had no contact with her former husband, who only briefly told her by telephone of the death of Queen Marie in 1938. Despite the tensions, Prince Michael was able to see his mother every year in Florence for two months.\n\nIn Fiesole, the life of Helen and her sisters was relatively retired, even though they were frequently visited by the Italian House of Savoy, which had always been welcoming to the Greek royal family during its exile. The Greek princesses also used their connections to find a wife for \"Diadochos\" Paul, who remained single. In 1935, they took advantage of the presence in Florence of Princess Frederica of Hanover to arrange an encounter between her and their brother. Their good efforts paid off and Frederica quickly fell in love with the \"Diadochos\". However, the princess' parents were reluctant to approve this relationship and it was not until 1937 that Paul and Frederica were finally allowed to get engaged. In the meanwhile, the Greek monarchy was restored and George II once again became King of Greece, but his wife Elisabeth, who filed for divorce on 6 July 1935, remained in Romania.\n\nIn Tuscany, Helen found real stability, despite the absence of her son most of the year. However, the outbreak of World War II again disrupted her daily routine. In accordance with the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, the Soviet Union forced Romania to cede Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina to them on 26 June 1940, and a few weeks later, the country was also forced to surrender Northern Transylvania to Hungary (Second Vienna Award, 30 August 1940) and the Southern Dobruja to Bulgaria (Treaty of Craiova, 7 September 1940); these territorial losses ended the Greater Romania, created at the end of World War I. Unable to maintain the territorial integrity of his country and under pressure from the Iron Guard, a fascist party supported by Nazi Germany, Carol II became increasingly unpopular and finally was forced to abdicate on 6 September 1940. His son Michael, aged 18, became king while General Ion Antonescu established a dictatorship with the support of members of the Iron Guard.\n\nEager to obtain the favor of the new sovereign (and some legitimation to his dictatorship), Antonescu granted Helen the title of \"Queen Mother of Romania\" (\"Regina-mamă Elena\") with the style \"Her Majesty\" on 8 September 1940 and sent the diplomat Raoul Bossy to Fiesole to persuade her to return to Bucharest (12 September 1940). Back in Romania (14 September 1940), Helen found herself, however, subject to the whim of the dictator, determined to keep the royal family in a purely ceremonial role. Indeed, in the years that followed, Antonescu systematically excluded the king and his mother from political responsibility and didn't even bother to warn them of his decision to declare war on the Soviet Union in June 1941.\n\nIn this difficult context, Michael I was at times prone to bouts of depression and Helen then concentrated all of her efforts to make him more active. Aware of his shortcomings, the queen mother appealed to historians of the right to train her son in his role as sovereign. She also guided the king in his talks and pushed him to oppose Antonescu when she deemed that his policies endangered the crown. Alerted about the anti-Jewish persecutions by the Rabbi Alexandru Șafran, Helen personally appealed to the German ambassador Manfred Freiherr von Killinger and Antonescu to convince them to halt the deportations, being supported in her efforts by Patriarch Nicodim. For his part, the king vigorously protested to the \"Conducător\" at the time of the Odessa massacre and notably obtained the release of Wilhelm Filderman, president of the Romanian Jewish community.\n\nDespite these few attempts of emancipation, Helen and her son spent most of the conflict playing as hosts of the German officers passing through Bucharest. The queen mother even met Hitler twice: firstly informally, with her sister Irene, to discuss the fate of Greece and Romania within the new Europe (December 1940) and secondly formally with Michael I during a trip in Italy (winter of 1941). Above all, Helen and her son had no choice but to officially support the dictatorship of Antonescu. Thus, it was Michael I who gave the \"Conducător\" the title of Marshal (21 August 1941) after the reconquest of Bessarabia by the Romanian Army.\n\nIn the fall of 1942, Helen played a major role in stopping Antonescu from his plans to deport all of the Jews of the \"Regat\" to the German death camp of Bełżec in Poland. According to SS \"Hauptsturmführer\" Gustav Richter, the counselor for Jewish Affairs at the German legation in Bucharest in a report sent to Berlin on 30 October 1942: \"The queen mother told the king that what was happening...was a disgrace and that she could not bear it any longer, all the more so because [their names] would be permanently associated...with the crimes committed against the Jews, while she would be known as the mother of \"Michael the Wicked\". She is said to have warned the king that, if the deportations were not immediately halted, she would leave the country. As a result the King...telephoned Prime Minister Ion Antonescu and...a meeting of the Council of Ministers took place.\"\n\nFrom 1941, the participation of the Romanian army in the invasion of the Soviet Union further damaged the relations between Antonescu and the royal family, who disapproved of the conquests of Odessa and Ukraine. However, it was the Battle of Stalingrad (23 August 1942 – 2 February 1943) and the losses incurred by the Romanian side that finally forced Michael I to organize around him a resistance against the dictatorship of the \"Conducător\". During an official speech on 1 January 1943, the sovereign publicly condemned the participation of Romania in the war against the Soviet Union, triggering the wrath of both Antonescu and the Nazi Germany, who accused Helen of being behind the royal initiative. In retaliation, Antonescu tightened his control over Michael I and his mother, and threatened the royal family with the abolition of the monarchy if any further provocation were to occur.\nOver the next few months, the suspicious death of Tsar Boris III of Bulgaria (28 August 1943) and the successive arrests of princesses Mafalda of Savoy (23 September 1943) and Irene of Greece (October 1943) after the overthrow of Mussolini by King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy (25 July 1943), proved to Michael I and his mother just how dangerous opposition to the Axis powers was. The return of the Soviets in Bessarabia and the American bombing over Bucharest forced the king, despite everything, to break with the regime of Antonescu. On 23 August 1944 Michael I organized a coup d'état against the \"Conducător\", who was imprisoned. In the process, the king and his new government declared war on the Axis powers and asked the Romanian forces not to resist the Red Army, which nevertheless continued its invasion into the country.\n\nIn retaliation against this betrayal, the \"Luftflotte\" bombed Bucharest and \"Casa Nouă\", the main residence of the sovereign and his mother since 1940, which was largely destroyed (24 August 1944). Nevertheless, the Romanian forces gradually managed to push the Germans out of the country and also attacked Hungary in order to liberate Transylvania (Siege of Budapest, 29 December 1944 – 13 February 1945). However, the Allies did not immediately recognize the reversal of Romania and the Soviets entered the capital on 31 August 31, 1944. An armistice was finally signed with Moscow on 12 September 1944, which forced the kingdom to accept the Soviet occupation. A climate of uncertainty swept the country while the Red Army increased their demands.\n\nVisiting Sinaia at the time of the royal coup d'état, Helen found her son the next day at Craiova. Back in Bucharest on 10 September 1944, the king and his mother moved into the residence of Princess Elizabeth, whose relations with Helen remained tense despite their reconciliation in 1940. With the increased instability in Romania, the queen mother was extremely concerned about the safety of her son, fearing that he could eventually be killed, like Prince-Regent Kiril of Bulgaria, shot by the Communists on 1 February 1945. The queen mother also disapproved of the influence of Ioan Stârcea over the sovereign and, following information from one of the palace servants, accused him of espionage on behalf of Antonescu. She was also concerned about the machinations of Carol II, who apparently waited for the end of the war to return to Romania, and observed with anxiety the political crisis that prevented King George II from regaining power in Greece. In this difficult context, Helen had the joy of learning that her sister Irene and her little nephew Amedeo were alive, although still in German hands.\n\nDespite these political and personal concerns, the queen mother continued her charitable activities. She provided support to Romanian hospitals, and managed to save some of the equipment of the Red Army requisitions. On 6 November 1944 she inaugurated a soup kitchen in the ballroom of the Royal Palace, which served not less than 11,000 meals to children in the capital over the next three months. Finally, despite Moscow's opposition, the queen mother sent aid to Moldavia, where a terrible epidemic of typhus was raging.\n\nWith the Soviet occupation, the staff of the Romanian Communist Party, which counted only a few thousand of members during the coup of Michael I, exploded and demonstrations against the government of Constantin Sănătescu multiplied. At the same time, acts of sabotage were occurring all over the country, preventing the Romanian economy from recovering. Faced with the combined pressures of the representative of the Soviet Union, Andrey Vyshinsky, and the People's Democratic Front (offshoot of the Communist Party), the king needed to build a new government and named Nicolae Rădescu as the new Prime Minister (7 December 1944). Nevertheless, the situation remained tense in the country and when the new head of the government called for municipal elections on 15 March 1945, the Soviet Union resumed its destabilizing operations in order to impose a government of their liking. The refusal of the United States and United Kingdom to intervene on his behalf led the sovereign to consider abdication but he abandoned the idea on the advice of representatives of the two major democratic political forces, Dinu Brătianu and Iuliu Maniu. On 6 March 1945 Michael I finally called Petru Groza, leader of the Ploughmen's Front, as the new head of a government which had no association with any representative of either the Peasants and the Liberal parties.\n\nSatisfied with this appointment, the Soviet authorities were more conciliatory with Romania. On 13 March 1945 Moscow transferred the administration of Transylvania to Bucharest. A few months later, on 19 July 1945, Michael I was decorated with the Order of Victory, one of the most prestigious Soviet military orders. Still, the Sovietization of the kingdom was accelerated. The purge of \"fascist\" personalities continued while censorship was strengthened. A land reform was also implemented, causing a drop in production which ruined agricultural exports. The king, however, managed to temporarily prevent the establishment of People's Tribunals and the restoration of the death penalty.\n\nAfter the Potsdam Conference and the reaffirmation by the Allies of the need to establish democratically elected governments in Europe, Michael I demanded the resignation of Petru Groza, who refused. Faced with this insubordination, the sovereign began a \"royal strike\" on 23 August 1945 during which he refused to countersign the acts of the government. With his mother, he locked himself in the Elisabeta Palace for six weeks before departing to Sinaia. The resistance of the monarch, however, was not supported by the West, who after the Moscow Conference of 25 December 1945, asked Romania to allow two opposition figures to enter the government. Disappointed by the lack of courage of London and Washington, the sovereign was shocked by the attitudes of Princesses Elisabeth and Ileana, who openly supported the communist authorities. Disgusted by all these betrayals, Helen, in turn, encouraged fewer meetings with Soviet officials and worried every day for the life of her son.\n\nThe year 1946 was marked by the strengthening of the Communist dictatorship, despite active resistance of the sovereign. After several months of waiting, the parliamentary elections were held on 19 November 1946 and were officially won by the Ploughmen's Front. After that date, the situation of the king and his mother became more precarious. In their palace, they had no access to running water for three hours a day and the electricity was off most of the day. This did not prevent Helen from maintaining her charitable activities and continuing to send food and clothing to Moldavia. In early 1947, the queen mother also obtained permission to travel abroad to visit her family. She then reunited with her sister Irene, weakened after her deportation to Austria, attended the funeral of her elder brother, King George II, and participated in the marriage of her youngest sister, Princess Katherine, with British Major Richard Brandram.\n\nThe signing of the Paris Peace Treaties, on 10 February 1947, marked a new stage in the sidelining of the royal family by the Communist regime. Deprived of any official duties, the king was found even more isolated than during the \"royal strike\". Under these conditions, the queen mother considered exile with more determination but she was concerned that they did not possess any foreign resources, because her son refused to save money outside of Romania. As guests to the marriage of Princess Elizabeth of the United Kingdom with Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark (Helen's first-cousin) on 20 November 1947, Michael I and his mother were provided with an opportunity to travel together abroad. During this stay, the king fell in love with Princess Anne of Bourbon-Parma, with whom he became engaged much to Helen's delight. This trip was also an opportunity for the queen mother to place two small paintings of El Greco from the royal collections in a Swiss bank.\n\nDespite the advice of their relatives, who urged them not to return to Romania in order to escape the communists, the king and his mother returned to Bucharest on 21 December 1947. They were coldly greeted by the government, which secretly hoped to see them stay abroad in order to abolish the monarchy. Their plan did not work, so Prime Minister Petru Groza and General Secretary of the Romanian Communist Party Gheorghe Gheorghiu-Dej decided to compel the sovereign to abdicate. On 30 December 1947 they asked for an audience with the king, who received them along with his mother. The two politicians asked Michael I to sign a declaration of abdication. The king refused, stating that, for such a thing, the Romanian population must be consulted. The two men threatened that if he persisted, over 1000 students arrested would be executed in retaliation. Thousands of people, including many students, were arrested in November 1946, after clashes with the Communist forces. The pro-democracy and freedom population defeated the Communist forces which were sent to the protests by the Communist government, but in return, many protesters were arrested by Communist authorities, with the help of the Red Army. The heavy clashes ensued in Bucharest and other big cities in Romania after the Communist Party falsified the votes for the 1946 Parliament elections, which the National Peasant's Party (PNȚ) had won with over 70%. Forced with this blackmail, Michael I renounced the crown. Only hours after the announcement, the Romanian People's Republic was proclaimed. Michael I and Helen left Romania with some partisans on 3 January 1948. Despite their close links with the Communists, Princesses Elisabeth and Ileana were also forced to leave the country a few days later, on 12 January.\n\nIn exile, Michael I and Helen settled for some time in Switzerland, where the deposed sovereign bitterly observed the Western acceptance of the establishment of a republic in Romania. For her part, Helen was mostly concerned with the state of their finances because the Communists allowed them to part with almost nothing. Despite their promises, the new Romanian authorities nationalized the properties of the former royal family (20 February 1948) and deprived the former monarch and his relatives of their nationality (17 May 1948). At the same time, the king and his mother had to deal with the intrigues of Carol II, who still considered himself the only legitimate sovereign of Romania and accused his ex-wife of keeping him away from their son. To achieve his ends, Carol II did nPt hesitate to involve Frederick, Prince of Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen (Head of the dynasty) and Prince Nicholas of Romania in his intrigues. These concerns did not prevent Michael I and his mother from undertaking several political trips to the United Kingdom, France and the United States to meet with government leaders and representatives of the Romanian diaspora.\n\nAnother source of concern from Michael I and his mother during their first months of exile was his marriage with Princess Anne of Bourbon-Parma. To discredit the former monarch, the Romanian authorities promoted rumors that Michael I gave up his dynastic rights in order to marry the woman of his heart, as his father did in 1925.\n\nAdded to this, the most serious difficulties were related to religion. Being a Roman Catholic, Princess Anne had to obtain a papal dispensation to marry an Orthodox. However, the Vatican had been extremely reluctant to grant consent because, for dynastic reasons, the couple's children would have to be raised in Michael I's religion. After Prince René of Bourbon-Parma, father of the bride, failed in his negotiations with the Vatican, Helen decided to go to Rome with Princess Margaret of Denmark (Anne's mother) to meet Pope Pius XII. However, the meeting ended badly and the Pope refused to agree to the marriage. Under these circumstances, Princess Anne had no choice but to override the pontifical will and abandon a Catholic marriage. In doing so, she incurred the wrath of her uncle, Prince Xavier of Bourbon-Parma, who forbade the members of his family to attend the royal wedding under threat of being excluded from the House of Bourbon-Parma. Once again, the queen mother tried to mediate, this time with Anne's family, but without success.\n\nHelen had better luck with her own family. Her brother, King Paul I of Greece, offered to organize Michael's wedding in Athens, despite official protests from the Romanian government. The wedding was finally celebrated in the Greek capital on 10 June 1948 with Archbishop Damaskinos himself officiating the ceremony. Celebrated in the throne room of the Royal Palace, the wedding brought together most of the members of the Greek dynasty but no representative of the Houses of Bourbon-Parma or Hohenzollern-Sigmaringen. In fact, Carol II was not invited to the wedding, despite Helen having written to him about the marriage.\n\nAfter the marriage of Michael I and Anne, Helen returned to Villa Sparta in Fiesole. Through 1951, she hosted her son and his family, who visited with her at least twice a year. Over the years, the family of the former king grew with the successive births of princesses Margareta (1949), Elena (1950), Irina (1953), Sophie (1957) and Maria (1964). From 1949 to 1950, Helen also housed her sister Irene and her nephew Amedeo, who later settled in a neighboring residence. Over the years, the two Greek princesses retained a strong bond, which ended with the death of the duchess of Aosta in 1974. Throughout her life, Helen also remained deeply attached to Amedeo and his first wife, Princess Claude of Orléans.\n\nHelen also made many trips abroad to visit her relatives. She traveled regularly to the United Kingdom to see her granddaughters, who were schooling there. Despite her sometimes stormy relationship with her sister-in-law, Queen Frederica, Helen also spent long periods in Greece and participated in the cruise of the Kings (1954), the marriage of Princess Sophia with the future King Juan Carlos I of Spain (1962) and the events organized to mark the centenary of the Greek dynasty (1963).\nDespite this, Helen's life was not solely devoted to her family. Passionate about Renaissance architecture and painting, she spent much of her time visiting monuments and museums. She also dedicated herself to creating artistic objects, for example an engraving made with a dentist's drill on an ivory billiard ball. A gardening enthusiast, she devoted long hours to the flowers and shrubs of her residence. A regular guest of the British Consulate, she also frequented the intellectuals who, like Harold Acton, had settled in the region of Florence. From 1968 to 1973, Helen had a romantic relationship with the twice-widower King Gustaf VI Adolf of Sweden, with whom she shared a love of art and plants. At one point, the Scandinavian sovereign asked her to marry him, but she refused.\n\nIn 1956 Helen consented for Arthur Gould Lee to publish her biography. At this point, her life was marked by financial difficulties which continued to worsen over time. Despite still being deprived of income by the Romanian authorities, the queen mother economically supported her son, and also helped him to find jobs, first as a pilot in Switzerland, then as a broker on Wall Street. Helen also supported the studies of her eldest granddaughter Margareta, and even welcomed her at Villa Sparta for a year before she entered a British university. To do this, Helen was forced to sell her assets one by one and in the early 1970s, she hardly had anything left. In 1973, she mortgaged her residence and three years later, she sold the two Greco] paintings that she had brought with her from Romania in 1947.\n\nBecoming too old to live alone, Helen finally left Fiesole in 1979. She then moved to a small apartment in Lausanne, located 45 minutes from the residence of Michael I and Anne, before moving in with them at Versoix in 1981. Helen, queen mother of Romania, died one year later on 28 November 1982, aged 86. She was buried without pomp in the Bois-de-Vaux Cemetery and the funerals were celebrated by Damaskinos Papandreou, the first Greek Orthodox Metropolitan of Switzerland.\n\nEleven years after her death, in March 1993, the State of Israel gave Helen the title of \"Righteous Among the Nations\" in recognition for her actions during World War II towards Romanian Jews, several thousands of whom she managed to save from 1941 to 1944. The announcement was made to the royal family by Alexandru Șafran, then Chief Rabbi of Geneva.\n\nIn January 2018, it was announced that the remains of King Carol II would be moved to the new Archdiocesan and Royal Cathedral, along with those of Queen Mother Helen. In addition, the remains of Prince Mircea would also be moved to the new cathedral. His remains are currently interred at the Bran Castle's Chapel.\n\nQueen Mother Helen of Romania was reburied at the New Episcopal and Royal Cathedral in Curtea de Argeș on 19 October 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300942", "title": "Lei Wulong", "text": "Lei Wulong\n\nMaking his debut in \"Tekken 2\" (1995), Lei is a respected police officer who has put countless criminals behind bars, which earns him the nickname of \"Super Police\". While investigating the nefarious Mishima Zaibatsu corporation's illegal hunting and trading practices, he ends up fighting former fellow officer Bruce Irvin, who has switched his allegiance to Kazuya Mishima, son of Mishima Zaibatsu CEO Heihachi Mishima. After Lei defeats Bruce, Bruce escapes in a plane that later crashes, which he survives.\n\nAfter the third King of the Iron Fist Tournament during the events of \"Tekken 3\" (1998), Lei's reputation as a crime fighter wanes and his work declines after his girlfriend dumps him for his assistant. When he discovers that a syndicate will send Nina Williams to kill professional boxer Steve Fox, he sets out to stop her and restore his reputation by joining the fourth tournament in \"Tekken 4\" (2001). Lei is successful in thwarting the assassination and captures Nina, but Steve intervenes and frees Nina by assaulting Lei. Lei nonetheless breaks up the syndicate that had dispatched Nina to the tournament.\n\nLei's storyline in \"Tekken 5\" has him shipped off to Japan in pursuit of Feng Wei, who is responsible for the destruction of multiple dojos in Japan and China. At the same time, he joins forces with Steve in attempt to destroy the Mishima Zaibatsu. However, Feng's trail goes cold and Lei has no choice but to return to Hong Kong. In \"Tekken 6\" (2007), Lei enters the sixth tournament in attempt to arrest Jin Kazama, as well as not forgetting his father Kazuya. In the game's \"Scenario Campaign\" story mode, Lei assists Lars Alexandersson and Alisa Bosconovitch in defeating the G Corporation's forces at the \"ICPO Branch Office\", and informs them that Kazuya has claimed the corporation by force.\n\nLei returned in \"Tekken 7\" as one of the Season 2 DLC characters. Depending on which stance he is in, Lei will utilize different Rage Drives. In his story biography, while once again investigate Kazuya's illegal activities in undercover, but this time on G Corporation, Lei also planned to meet the corporation's hired mascot Lucky Chloe secretly, whom Lei is big fan of.\n\nLei appears as a playable character in the noncanonical \"Tekken\" titles \"Tekken Card Challenge\", \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" and \"\". He appears as a playable downloadable character in \"Street Fighter X Tekken\".\n\nLei appears in the 1998 animated film \"\", in which he is partnered with Jun Kazama to investigate the Mishima Zaibatsu's illegal activities during the tournament. Rather than actually competing in the tournament, Lei infiltrates the island's underground base with Jack-2's help. He was voiced by Akio Nakamura, and by Gray G. Haddock in the English dub.\n\nLei was described by Namco for \"Tekken 2\" as \"very laid back with a casual attitude. He is one of the comedy relief of the \"Tekken\" cast and is constantly cracking jokes.\" His fighting style and mannerisms are believed to be inspired by martial artist and actor Jackie Chan. The character is voiced in the games by Hiroya Ishimaru, Chan's Japanese voice actor. Though not mentioning Lei by name, \"Tekken\" series producer Katsuhiro Harada expressed regret in a 2015 interview with \"GamesRadar\" for having modeled many of the \"Tekken\" series characters after real-life personalities: \"They may have been unique, but they didn’t really have any meaning.\" In 2016, Harada explained Lei's absence from \"Tekken 7\" (2015) in that he felt the character had not been chosen enough by players to warrant his inclusion. However, in 2018, Lei was added to the roster as part of the Season 2 DLC Pack.\n\nLei's fighting style is canonically titled \"Five Form-Based Martial Arts\", further described as \"five-animals-style Kung Fu, consisting of Tiger, Crane, Leopard, Snake and Dragon styles.\" In his 2003 book \"Kung Fu Cult Masters\", author Leon Hunt wrote that Lei \"is widely taken to be Jackie Chan, even down to his Drunken Master style, but his Shaolin animal styles … suggest a broader-based remediation of the kung fu star.\" According to \"Complex's\" Kevin Wong, Lei \"is strictly for \"Tekken\" experts. He has seven stances to master … and a command list that is best described as overwhelming. Each new \"Tekken\" game [makes] Lei's learning curve incredibly steep.\" \"GameSpy\" considered Lei in \"Tekken 6\" \"one of the most versatile characters\", but \"the complexity of his technique makes him a tad unaccessible to \"Tekken\" newcomers.\" Angelo D'Argenio of \"Shoryuken\" said of the character in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\": \"Lei isn’t exactly a combo character, as he relies more on his mix-ups to deal damage.\"\n\nThe character has received mostly positive reception from various gaming media outlets. Dave Cook of \"VG247\" stated that Lei's \"multi-stance move set\" in \"Tekken 2\" \"delivered incredible depth that was foreign to the fighting genre at the time.\" UGO Networks placed Lei among the 50 \"greatest fictional detectives of all time\" in 2008, describing him as \"the longtime star of the \"Tekken\" franchise\". Kevin Wong of \"Complex\" named Lei the eighth-best \"Tekken\" character in 2013. Lei's \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\" ending features him and Marshall Law engaging in a violent sparring session at Law's restaurant; based on the characters' resemblances to Jackie Chan and Bruce Lee, respectively, 4thletter.net ranked it 163rd in their 2003 list of \"The Top 200 Fighting Game Endings\": \"Lei is an action cop … while Law is a mediocre chef with a taste for get-rich-quick schemes. Still, such a match-up is hard to resist and \"Tekken Tag 2\" gives us just that.\"\n\nIn 2015, Laurence Mozaffari of \"Digital Spy\" likened the \"flip-floppy style of walking and fighting\" of \"Star Wars\" character Jar Jar Binks to \"another traditional martial arts style, called Zui Quan. You might recognise this brand of 'drunken kung fu' from the likes of \"Tekken's\" Lei Wulong.\" Gavin Jasper of \"Den of Geek\" ranked Lei 33rd in his 2017 ranking of the \"Tekken\" series' 59 characters: \"Yes, it’s cool that he’s an action cop who does drunken boxing. His ability to alter his fighting style is also novel. It’s just that the writers never seemed to have much more for him to do.\" Though Lei was added to \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" as a downloadable character, in an official fan poll held by Namco in 2012 he was only the 36th-most requested out of 54 \"Tekken\" characters for inclusion in the game, receiving 3.5% (3,086) of 88,280 votes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300943", "title": "Nevljica", "text": "Nevljica\n\nThe Nevljica is a river in the Municipality of Kamnik, Slovenia. It has its source below Kozjak Hill (737 m, near Črni Vrh v Tuhinju) and flows through the Tuhinj Valley. It also flows through the settlements of Nevlje and Mekinje. It is a left tributary of the Kamnik Bistrica.\n\nThere are two notable bridges over Nevljica:\n\nIn January 1938, due to erosion and frequent flooding, the administration of the Drava Banovina started to regulate the bed of the river. In addition, a bridge was to be built. On 14 March 1938, workers at the site found objects that were later shown to be an almost complete skeleton of a woolly mammoth (\"Mammuthus primigenius\"). An Upper Paleolithic archaeological site was established in Nevlje. Remains of other animals as well as a human tool were found, and it was shown that around 22,000 years ago there was a human hunting settlement in the area. The skeleton gave its name to the bridge over the river in Nevlje.\n"}
{"id": "2300947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300947", "title": "Stable map", "text": "Stable map\n\nIn mathematics, specifically in symplectic topology and algebraic geometry, one can construct the moduli space of stable maps, satisfying specified conditions, from Riemann surfaces into a given symplectic manifold. This moduli space is the essence of the Gromov–Witten invariants, which find application in enumerative geometry and type IIA string theory. The idea of stable map was proposed by Maxim Kontsevich around 1992 and published in .\n\nBecause the construction is lengthy and difficult, it is carried out here rather than in the Gromov–Witten invariants article itself.\n\nFix a closed symplectic manifold formula_1 with symplectic form formula_2. Let formula_3 and formula_4 be natural numbers (including zero) and formula_5 a two-dimensional homology class in formula_1. Then one may consider the set of pseudoholomorphic curves\n\nwhere formula_8 is a smooth, closed Riemann surface of genus formula_3 with formula_4 marked points formula_11, and\n\nis a function satisfying, for some choice of formula_2-tame almost complex structure formula_14 and inhomogeneous term formula_15, the perturbed Cauchy–Riemann equation\n\nTypically one admits only those formula_3 and formula_4 that make the punctured Euler characteristic formula_19 of formula_20 negative; then the domain is stable, meaning that there are only finitely many holomorphic automorphisms of formula_20 that preserve the marked points.\n\nThe operator formula_22 is elliptic and thus Fredholm. After significant analytical argument (completing in a suitable Sobolev norm, applying the implicit function theorem and Sard's theorem for Banach manifolds, and using elliptic regularity to recover smoothness) one can show that, for a generic choice of formula_2-tame formula_14 and perturbation formula_15, the set of formula_26-holomorphic curves of genus formula_3 with formula_4 marked points that represent the class formula_5 forms a smooth, oriented orbifold\n\nof dimension given by the Atiyah-Singer index theorem,\n\nThis moduli space of maps is not compact, because a sequence of curves can degenerate to a singular curve, which is not in the moduli space as we've defined it. This happens, for example, when the energy of formula_32 (meaning the \"L\"-norm of the derivative) concentrates at some point on the domain. One can capture the energy by rescaling the map around the concentration point. The effect is to attach a sphere, called a bubble, to the original domain at the concentration point and to extend the map across the sphere. The rescaled map may still have energy concentrating at one or more points, so one must rescale iteratively, eventually attaching an entire bubble tree onto the original domain, with the map well-behaved on each smooth component of the new domain.\n\nIn order to make this precise, define a stable map to be a pseudoholomorphic map from a Riemann surface with at worst nodal singularities, such that there are only finitely many automorphisms of the map. Concretely, this means the following. A smooth component of a nodal Riemann surface is said to be stable if there are at most finitely many automorphisms preserving its marked and nodal points. Then a stable map is a pseudoholomorphic map with at least one stable domain component, such that for each of the other domain components\nIt is significant that the domain of a stable map need not be a stable curve. However, one can contract its unstable components (iteratively) to produce a stable curve, called the stabilization formula_33 of the domain formula_20.\n\nThe set of all stable maps from Riemann surfaces of genus formula_3 with formula_4 marked points forms a moduli space\n\nThe topology is defined by declaring that a sequence of stable maps converges if and only if\n\nThe moduli space of stable maps is compact; that is, any sequence of stable maps converges to a stable map. To show this, one iteratively rescales the sequence of maps. At each iteration there is a new limit domain, possibly singular, with less energy concentration than in the previous iteration. At this step the symplectic form formula_2 enters in a crucial way. The energy of any smooth map representing the homology class formula_40 is bounded below by the symplectic area formula_41,\n\nwith equality if and only if the map is pseudoholomorphic. This bounds the energy captured in each iteration of the rescaling and thus implies that only finitely many rescalings are needed to capture all of the energy. In the end, the limit map on the new limit domain is stable.\n\nThe compactified space is again a smooth, oriented orbifold. Maps with nontrivial automorphisms correspond to points with isotropy in the orbifold.\n\nTo construct Gromov–Witten invariants, one pushes the moduli space of stable maps forward under the evaluation map\n\nto obtain, under suitable conditions, a rational homology class\n\nRational coefficients are necessary because the moduli space is an orbifold. The homology class defined by the evaluation map is independent of the choice of generic formula_2-tame formula_14 and perturbation formula_15. It is called the Gromov–Witten (GW) invariant of formula_1 for the given data formula_3, formula_4, and formula_5. A cobordism argument can be used to show that this homology class is independent of the choice of formula_2, up to isotopy. Thus Gromov–Witten invariants are invariants of symplectic isotopy classes of symplectic manifolds.\n\nThe \"suitable conditions\" are rather subtle, primarily because multiply covered maps (maps that factor through a branched covering of the domain) can form moduli spaces of larger dimension than expected.\n\nThe simplest way to handle this is to assume that the target manifold formula_1 is \"semipositive\" or \"Fano\" in a certain sense. This assumption is chosen exactly so that the moduli space of multiply covered maps has codimension at least two in the space of non-multiply-covered maps. Then the image of the evaluation map forms a pseudocycle, which induces a well-defined homology class of the expected dimension.\n\nDefining Gromov–Witten invariants without assuming some kind of semipositivity requires a difficult, technical construction known as the virtual moduli cycle.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300948", "title": "California State Route 20", "text": "California State Route 20\n\nState Route 20 (SR 20) is a state highway in the northern-central region of the state of California, running east–west north of Sacramento from the North Coast to the Sierra Nevada. Its west end is at SR 1 in Fort Bragg, from where it heads east past Clear Lake, Colusa, Yuba City, Marysville and Nevada City to I-80 near Emigrant Gap, where eastbound traffic can continue on other routes to Lake Tahoe or Nevada.\n\nPortions of SR 20 are built near the routing of what was first a wagon road and later a turnpike in the late 19th century. This road was extended through the state highway system all the way to Ukiah in the early 20th century, and the missing link near Clear Lake was completed in 1932 before the official designation of this highway as SR 20 in 1934. There have been subsequent improvements to the road, such as the conversion of the Grass Valley portion of the route to freeway standards.\n\nState Route 20 begins at SR 1 in southern Fort Bragg, less than from the Pacific Ocean. It heads east, quickly climbing into the Mendocino Range along a ridge and crossing through Dunlap Pass. The highway continues to rise alongside the North Fork Big River and tributaries, crossing another summit and then descending to Willits in the Little Lake Valley via Broaddus Creek. An overlap with US 101 begins in Willits and heads southeasterly to Calpella, north of Ukiah in Redwood Valley. There SR 20 turns east again, crossing the Russian River, passing the north shore of Lake Mendocino, and rising to a summit via the East Fork Russian River and Cold Creek. The roadway again descends alongside the Blue Lakes and Scotts Creek to the junction with SR 29 and the settlement of Upper Lake in the Clear Lake Basin. SR 20 closely follows the northeast shore of Clear Lake, staying right above the water line to avoid the adjacent hills. Where the lake ends, SR 20 continues east, intersecting SR 53 and then following the North Fork Cache Creek and tributaries to the Lake-Colusa County line. During its final descent into the Sacramento Valley, SR 20 intersects SR 16 and curves north and back east, entering the valley via Salt Creek.\nOnce it enters the flat Sacramento Valley, SR 20 takes a generally straight path, crossing I-5 in Williams, overlapping SR 45 near the west bank of the Sacramento River southeast from Colusa, and then turning back east to cross the Sacramento River and Sutter Bypass on its way to Yuba City. The route crosses SR 99 west of central Yuba City, and runs east through northern Yuba City to the Feather River, which it crosses on the 10th Street Bridge into Marysville. Within the central part of that city, SR 20 makes several turns, first turning south from 10th Street onto E Street, then east on 9th Street (overlapping SR 70), north on B Street, and east on 12th Street (splitting from SR 70). The highway leaves Marysville to the northeast, paralleling the Yuba River on its north side as it enters the foothills of the Sierra Nevada.\n\nSR 20 rises into the Sierra along the north side of the Yuba River, crossing to the south side near Smartsville and then climbing through several ravines to the Penn Valley. The current alignment, built in the mid-1980s as a mostly two-lane freeway, continues east across rugged terrain to the city of Grass Valley, where it joins SR 49 on the Golden Center Freeway. The two routes travel northeast to Nevada City, where SR 49 turns northwest and SR 20 resumes its eastward course as a two-lane highway. The roadway climbs from Nevada City and follows Harmony Ridge and Washington Ridge before descending into the Bear Valley via a series of hairpin turns, and then climbing, just north of Emigrant Gap, to its end at I-80 at Yuba Pass. The Pioneer Trail, a National Recreation Trail, parallels SR 20 from a point on Harmony Ridge to the Bear Valley, and includes parts of a branch of the California Trail first used in 1850.\n\nSR 20 east of US 101 is part of the California Freeway and Expressway System, although it is mostly a two-lane surface road; east of SR 53, it is part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration. All of SR 20 is on the Interregional Road System, a highway system that connects major economic centers of the state, and has been selected by the California Department of Transportation (Caltrans) as a High Emphasis Route and Focus Route from US 101 to SR 29 and SR 53 to I-80, with the designated corridor following SR 29 and SR 53 around the south side of Clear Lake. It is also eligible for the State Scenic Highway System from SR 1 to SR 16 and SR 49 to I-80, and has been designated as such for near the east end; this is part of the federally designated Yuba-Donner Scenic Byway, a National Forest Scenic Byway that uses SR 20 east of SR 49.\n\nThe east end of SR 20, from Bear Valley (just below Emigrant Gap) to Nevada City, closely follows a branch of the Truckee Route of the California Trail, first used by California-bound emigrants in 1850. Later a turnpike was built here by the same company that opened the Pacific Turnpike (Culbertson Road and Bowman Lake Road between Dutch Flat and Bowman Lake) in 1864.\n\nBy the end of the 1910s, a passable dirt and gravel road connected Ukiah and Nevada City via the south side of Clear Lake and Marysville. The portion between Lower Lake and Wilbur Springs was impassable in wet weather, at which times the Bartlett Springs and Bear Valley Toll-road via Upper Lake and Bartlett Springs was available for $1.50 each way or $2.50 round trip. This route generally followed the present SR 20, except around Clear Lake and between Marysville and Rough and Ready (where it used Spenceville Road). Beyond Nevada City to Emigrant Gap, the old turnpike was not passable; instead the present SR 174 was available for eastward drivers. Between Williams and Colusa, the road was paved in concrete, as it had been added to the state highway system as part of the first (1910) bond issue, specifically as Route 15, connecting the west Sacramento Valley trunk (Route 7, now I-5) with the county seat of Colusa.\n\nThis state highway was significantly extended in both directions in 1919, west to Ukiah and east to Emigrant Gap, creating what was known as the Tahoe-Ukiah Highway, connecting Ukiah and Lake Tahoe in combination with Route 37 (now I-80) and Route 38 (now SR 89). The law that defined the extension simply stated that it would connect \"Ukiah to Tahoe City\"; the state decided in September 1925 that it would run the highway along the north shore of Clear Lake, combining with the planned Rumsey-Lower Lake Highway (Route 50, now SR 53 and SR 16) east to Wilbur Springs. With the completion of this segment in mid-1932, the highway was ready for heavy travel, and became Sign Route 20 in 1934 as part of the initial signed state route system.\n\nIn 1953, the legislature added an extension of Route 15 from US 101 at Willits (north of Ukiah) west to SR 1 near Fort Bragg. This was constructed (over an existing county road) and became part of Sign Route 20 prior to 1964, when the Route 20 designation was legislatively adopted. Subsequent improvements include the construction of the Golden Center Freeway, connecting Grass Valley with Nevada City, in the late 1960s, and a new alignment of SR 20 west from Grass Valley, bypassing Rough and Ready, in the mid-1980s.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300953", "title": "Carl Rosa", "text": "Carl Rosa\n\nCarl August Nicholas Rosa (22 March 184230 April 1889) was a German-born musical impresario best remembered for founding an English opera company known as the Carl Rosa Opera Company. He started his company in 1869 together with his wife, Euphrosyne Parepa-Rosa, and popularised opera in Britain and America, performing standard repertory in English, as well as operas by English composers.\n\nRosa was born Karl August Nikolaus Rose in Hamburg, Germany, the son of Ludwig Rose, a Hamburg businessman, and Sophie Becker. His father subsequently took him to Edinburgh. A child prodigy, Rosa toured in Scotland from age 12 to age 16, eventually earning glowing notices. Beginning in 1859, he studied at the Conservatorium at Leipzig (where he met and became lifelong friends with Arthur Sullivan) and, in 1862, in Paris.\n\nIn 1863, Rosa was appointed Konzertmeister at Hamburg, where he had occasional opportunities to conduct. Three years later he visited England, appearing as a soloist at the Crystal Palace. He had considerable success as a conductor both in England and the United States. He travelled to America in 1866 as a member of a concert troupe promoted by the Baltimore impresario Hezekiah Linthicum Bateman that also included the Scottish operatic soprano Euphrosyne Parepa. During this tour, on 26 February 1867 in New York City, he married Parepa, who became known as \"Madame Parepa-Rosa\".\nIn 1869, in collaboration with the Chicago impresario C. D. Hess, the couple formed the Parepa Rosa English Opera Company in New York and toured in America for three seasons, with Parepa as the star and Rosa as the conductor. It brought grand opera to places in America that had never seen any, performing Italian operas in English, which made them more accessible to American audiences. In 1872, the Rosas returned to England and also visited Europe and Egypt. Rosa changed the spelling of his name after he moved to England, where people took \"Rose\" as a monosyllable.\n\nIn 1873 Rosa and his wife started the \"Carl Rosa Opera Company\" (the change in name reflecting her pregnancy) with a performance of William Vincent Wallace's \"Maritana\" in Manchester on 1 September, and then toured England and Ireland. Rosa's policy was to present operas in English, and that remained the company's practice. That year, Rosa invited the dramatist W. S. Gilbert to write a libretto for Rosa to present as part of a planned 1874 season at the Drury Lane Theatre. Gilbert expanded one of the comic \"Bab Ballads\" that he had written for \"Fun\" magazine into a one-act libretto titled \"Trial by Jury\". Parepa died in January 1874; Rosa dropped the project and cancelled his planned 1874 season. Rosa later endowed a Parepa-Rosa scholarship at the Royal Academy of Music in London. He married a second time in 1881. With his second wife, Josephine (d. 1927), he had four children.\nThe company's first London season opened at the Princess's Theatre in September 1875, playing \"The Marriage of Figaro\", with Charles Santley as Figaro and Rose Hersee as Susanna. In 1876, Rosa staged a second London season, which featured the first performance in English of \"The Flying Dutchman\" with Santley in the title role. For the next fifteen years, under Rosa's guidance, the company prospered and earned good notices, with provincial tours and London seasons, frequently in conjunction with Augustus Harris at the Drury Lane Theatre. Such was the success of the company that at one point three Carl Rosa touring troupes were set up. Rosa hired Alberto Randegger as the musical director of the company from 1879 to 1885. In 1880, George Grove wrote: \"The careful way in which the pieces are put on the stage, the number of rehearsals, the eminence of the performers and the excellence of the performers have begun to bear their legitimate fruit, and the Carl Rosa Opera Company bids fair to become a permanent English institution.\" In 1892, Rosa's Grand Opera Company gave a command performance of \"La fille du régiment\" at Balmoral Castle.\nRosa introduced many works of important opera repertoire to England for the first time, performing some 150 different operas over the years. Besides Santley and Hersee, Minnie Hauk, Joseph Maas, Barton McGuckin and Giulia Warwick were some of the famous singers associated with the company during its early years. Rosa also encouraged and supported new works by English composers. Frederic Hymen Cowen's \"Pauline\" (1876), Arthur Goring Thomas's \"Esmeralda\" (1883), Alexander Mackenzie's \"Colomba\" (1883) and \"The Troubabour\", and Charles Villiers Stanford's \"The Canterbury Pilgrims\" (1884) were commissioned by the company. Earlier English operas by Wallace, Balfe and Julius Benedict were also included in the company's repertoire. An obituarist noted, \"He had long looked forward to the time when Sir Arthur Sullivan would have undertaken a grand opera, and to the last had hoped to have been able to produce such a work.\" Shortly before his death, Rosa launched a light opera company that debuted with Robert Planquette's \"Paul Jones\".\n\nRosa died suddenly in Paris, on 30 April 1889, and was buried in Highgate Cemetery, London. Rosa's place in English music was indicated by the number of leading musicians who attended his funeral, including Sullivan, Stanford, Mackenzie and George Grove, together with Richard D'Oyly Carte, George Edwardes and Augustus Harris.\n\nBy the time he died, Rosa had demonstrated that English opera could be an artistic and financial success. In a memorial lecture, the critic Herman Klein said of him, \"From an artistic point of view he achieved triumph after triumph; he lifted English opera out of the slough of despond in which it was found in 1875.\" Both during his life and after his death, his company had much to do with popularizing opera in England, encouraging native composers and training many singers who went on to international careers. His company survived his death and continued to perform opera in English until 1960. A new opera company, using the name, was revived in 1997 under the artistic direction of Peter Mulloy. This company performs Gilbert and Sullivan and other light operas, as well as grand opera.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300955", "title": "Space Emperor God Sigma", "text": "Space Emperor God Sigma\n\nSpace Emperor God Sigma was created by Toei's Television Division, under the name \"Saburo Yatsude\" and produced by Academy Production (who subcontracted Greenbox). The series was produced by the main Toei company, and not by Toei Animation; Yoshinobu Nishizaki's Academy Productions provided production assistance. Toei Agency handled the advertising for the show, and its main sponsor was Popy (now Bandai's Boy's Toys Division).\n\nThis anime was the last that Takashi Ijima would work on; he had been part of Toei's TV division's projects since Chōdenji Robo Combattler V, which aired in 1976. Joined by Katsuhiko Taguchi, the chief director, the two created an anime that lasted for four full seasons, which was rare at the time of its broadcast.\n\nThe story is set in the year 2050 AD, and mankind has been steadily advancing its space technology. However, the planet is suddenly set upon by a mysterious enemy: the forces of Eldar, who came from 250 years in the future. In their time, 2300 AD, their planet Eldar was invaded by Earth, and soundly defeated by Earth's Trinity Energy, a mysterious energy used in their weaponry that possesses power many times that of a hydrogen bomb. The Eldar people's objective is to steal this Trinity Energy before it can be used against them.\n\nThe Eldar forces begin by taking over Jupiter's moon Io, one of the places humanity has immigrated to by then. After that, they begin to attack Trinity City with their legions of Cosmosauruses in order to steal the Trinity Energy. Toshiya and his friends use God Sigma to protect the planet and the Trinity Energy, and the battle evolves into a long war to retake Io.\n\n, Tomokazu Seki (in Super Robot Wars Z)\nThe protagonist of the show. He is an 18-year-old second-generation pioneer living on Jupiter's moon, Io. The main pilot of God Sigma.\n\nAssistant to Dr. Kazami, the head scientist and researcher at Trinity City. One of the three pilots of God Sigma.\n\nOne of Toshiya's good friends, and also a native of Io.\n\n, Hiromi Tsuru (in Super Robot Wars Z)\nThe supreme commander of the Eldar forces sent to Earth to steal the Trinity Energy.\n\nThe commander of the Cosmosauruses, under Teral's command.\n\nA commander under Teral's command.\n\nThe completed giant robot formed when the Kuuraioh, Kaimeioh, and Rikushin'oh combine with the Big-Wing.\n\nWith the command \"Sigma Formation\", the three robots form a triangle, and when they shout \"Trinity Charge\", the Big-Wing flies to them and combines. Two separate combination scenes exist in the anime - one during the beginning, and one from the middle onwards.\n\nIts total height was originally stated to be 265 meters tall, but since this would cause difficulties for the actual animation, it was changed to 66 meters. It weighs 1200 tons, and its power source is Trinity Energy. It possesses the ability to cruise from Earth to Jupiter and back. It can be controlled by the main pilot, Toshiya, but without the other two component robots' generators to supplement his own, it's not as powerful.\n\nIn the final episode, it and the giant mecha Gargos destroy each other. However, it is repaired after the war and revamped to be a single-pilot machine, and Toshiya sets off with it by himself.\n\n\nOpening Theme: \"Ganbare! Uchuu no Senshi\" (Do your Best, Space Warrior!)\n\nEnding Theme: \"Red Blue Yellow\"\n\nThe ending theme, \"Red Blue Yellow\", consists of the planets in the solar system in order. At the time of the show's broadcast, Pluto was actually inside the orbit of Neptune. This was not reflected in the animation, the reason being that the show itself is set in the year 2050. Also, the rings of Jupiter had just been discovered the year before, so in the ending animation, Jupiter is depicted with rings. However, in contrast to the actual rings of Jupiter, which are too thin to see a shadow cast on the planet, the picture of Jupiter in the ending sequence does have the shadow of rings on it.\n\nThe series was telecast in Italy under the title \"God Sigma, l'imperatore dello spazio\" (the Italian translation of the full Japanese title).\n\nGod Sigma toys were released under the premier Godaikin toy label in Japan and Hong Kong in the 1980s.\n\nOn March 16, 2011, Pony Canyon released a complete DVD box set, which only had a limited production run. This is the first and only digital version of the show.\n\nSpace Emperor God Sigma appears in various games by Banpresto (currently Bandai Namco Games). Its first appearance was in a 1992 Famicom game called Shuffle Fight. Its second was in the 2008 PS2 game Super Robot Wars Z. However, by this time, Toshiya's voice actor Tomiyama Kei had died, so the role was given to Tomokazu Seki instead. In the same game, a robot from Gravion called God Σ Gravion appears, triggering a conversation between the characters of each series. God Sigma also appears in the game's two-part sequel, 2nd Super Robot Wars Z: Hakai-hen and Saisei-hen.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300964", "title": "Barber Pro Series", "text": "Barber Pro Series\n\nThe Barber Dodge Pro Series was a professional open-wheel auto racing series from 1986 to 2003. It was one of the first professional spec series for open-wheel racecars in North America. The races were primarily on road and street courses in North America, although the schedule did sometimes include a few ovals.\n\nThis series is often confused with Skip Barber's long-standing amateur racing series which has always used different and significantly less powerful cars. The amateur series currently has regional and national components.\n\nThe Barber Pro Series was a spec series, in which all cars were identically prepared by Skip Barber Racing. From its beginning in 1986 to 1994, the series was known as the Barber Saab Pro Series; the spec car was a tube-frame Mondiale chassis (basically a Formula Ford 2000 design) powered by a turbocharged 16-valve Saab 16v engine. For the seasons 1986 and 1987, the cars used street-legal racing tires, but for the 1988 season they used Goodyear Racing Eagle slicks instead.\n\nThe idea was discussed as early as 1979 as a way to get Saab involved in serious motorsports in the United States. Len Lonnegren, PR boss at Saab Cars USA, had heard that Skip Barber was planning to launch an open-wheel \"spec car\" professional race series, and that it was to run on the same IMSA programs as the GTPs and Camel Lights. Originally Barber had planned on using small displacement naturally aspirated 1,600 cc Dodge engines, but was talked into using turbocharged Saab engines instead. Saab provided engines and spare parts, as well as the assistance of an engineer nicknamed \"Turbo Anders\" who flew over from Sweden rather frequently once things got rolling. The engines were basically stock 1,985 cc 16-valve twin-cam turbo engines with an output of 225 hp. The engines differed from street versions in that the boost was increased, emission control systems were removed, fuel-injection settings revised and a racing exhaust fitted, together with dry-sump lubrication. Mondiale, based in Northern Ireland was contracted to supply the series with chassis. The first race was run at Meadowlands and was won by Brian Till. By 1991 the marketing strategy at Saab changed and Saab USA did little more than provide the engines.\n\nIn 1995, the Saab engine was replaced with a production car 240 hp 3.2 L 24-valve Dodge aluminum sixty degree V6 engine and the series name was changed to the \"Barber Dodge Pro Series\". The series continued to use the original tube frame Mondiale chassis. In later years, the engines produced 265 hp. SCCA Pro Racing took over the organisation from IMSA. The first Dodge powered race was won by Geoff Boss. In 1997 it was announced that Reynard would design and build a new car for the Barber Dodge Pro Series. The Mondiale chassis was retired after twelve years of racing in 1998. \nThe organisation was taken over by Professional Sports Car Racing. PSCR was formed by Andy Evans and Roberto Muller after they bought IMSA. For 2002, after CART took over the series, the Skip Barber Challenge was launched. This series comprised three race-weekends. The series was run by the Skip Barber Racing School but used the same cars as the pro series. Both seasons were won by Matt Franc. After the CART organisation filed for bankruptcy in early 2004 the Barber Dodge Pro Series was initially put on hiatus. The assets were transferred to Open Wheel Racing Series, LLC who decided not to run a 2004 Barber Dodge Pro Series. As a result, the Skip Barber Racing school decided to focus on the Skip Barber National Championship.\n\nMondiale Car Company was contracted to build cars for the Skip Barber Racing School and the Barber Saab Pro Series. The Pro series car was based on the Formula Ford 2000 chassis Mondiale had experience with. The chassis was a spaceframe design. The powerplant came of the Saab 900 and Saab 9000 production car.\n\nReynard launched the Reynard 98E for the 1998 Barber Dodge Pro Series. This car featured a carbon fiber monocoque. The engine came from the second generation Dodge Intrepid. The suspension, brakes and radiators were made by Chrysler. The bodywork was designed using computer-aided drafting (CAD). The car was designed by Andrew Thorby and Adrian Reynard. The car was initially tested at Mallory Park and Snetterton by Rob Wilson. In the USA testing was conducted by Robbie Buhl.\n\nOther notable drivers who have raced in the series include Juan Pablo Montoya, Alex Gurney, Jon Fogarty, Ryan Hunter-Reay, Danica Patrick, Jeremy Dale, Townsend Bell, Michael Valiante, David Martínez, Memo Rojas, Rocky Moran, Jr., Al Unser III, Andy Swett, Jerry Nadeau and Ernesto Viso. Mike Silcox \n"}
{"id": "2300967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300967", "title": "Carl Rosa Opera Company", "text": "Carl Rosa Opera Company\n\nThe Carl Rosa Opera Company was founded in 1873 by Carl Rosa, a German-born musical impresario, to present opera in English in London and the British provinces. The company premiered many operas in the UK, employing a mix of established opera stars and young singers, reaching new opera audiences with popularly priced tickets. It survived Rosa's death in 1889, and continued to present opera in English on tour until 1960, when it was obliged to close for lack of funds. The company was revived in 1997, presenting mostly lighter operatic works including those by Gilbert and Sullivan. The company \"was arguably the most influential opera company ever in the UK\".\n\nCarl Rosa was born Karl August Nikolaus Rose in Hamburg, Germany, the son of a local businessman. A child violin prodigy, Rosa studied at the Conservatorium at Leipzig and in Paris. In 1863 he was appointed Konzertmeister at Hamburg, where he had occasional opportunities to conduct. He soon had considerable success as a conductor both in England and the United States. During an American tour in 1866–67 as conductor of a concert troupe that included the Scottish operatic soprano Euphrosyne Parepa, Rosa and Parepa were married.\n\nFrom 1869 to 1872, Rosa and his wife toured their own opera company through America, with Parepa as the star and Rosa as the conductor. It brought opera to places that had never seen any, performing Italian operas in English, which made them more accessible to American audiences.\n\nIn 1872, the Rosas returned to England and also visited Europe and Egypt. In September the next year, they inaugurated the \"Carl Rosa Opera\" with a performance of William Vincent Wallace's \"Maritana\" in Manchester, on 1 September, and then toured England and Ireland. Rosa's policy was to present operas in English, and that remained the company's practice. Parepa fell ill and died in January 1874, and Rosa married a second time in 1881, to Josephine (d. 1927), with whom he had four children. In November 1874, Carl Rosa Opera made its first of many visits to Scotland with a two-week season at Glasgow's Prince of Wales Theatre. The company's first London season opened at the Princess's Theatre in September 1875, playing Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\", with Charles Santley as Figaro and Rose Hersee as Susanna. In 1876, Rosa staged a second London season, which featured the first performance in English of Wagner's \"The Flying Dutchman\", with Santley in the title role.\n\nFor the next fifteen years, the company prospered and earned good notices, with provincial tours and London seasons, frequently in conjunction with Augustus Harris at the Drury Lane Theatre. Such was the success of the company that at one point three Carl Rosa touring troupes were set up. In October 1892, Rosa's Grand Opera Company received the royal accolade, with a command performance of Donizetti's \"La fille du régiment\" at Balmoral Castle. The French-American soprano Zélie de Lussan sang the heroine, Marie, and Aynsley Cook \"vastly amused Queen Victoria as Sergeant Sulpice\". In 1880, George Grove, editor of the authoritative musical reference work, \"Grove's Dictionary of Music and Musicians\", wrote: \"The careful way in which the pieces are put on the stage, the number of rehearsals, the eminence of the performers and the excellence of the performers have begun to bear their legitimate fruit, and the Carl Rosa Opera Company bids fair to become a permanent English institution.\"\n\nThe company introduced many works of important opera repertoire to England for the first time, performing some 150 different operas over the years. Besides Santley and Hersee, Blanche Cole, Minnie Hauk, Alice Esty, Georgina Burns, Joseph Maas, Barton McGuckin, Giulia Warwick and William Ludwig were some of the famous singers associated with the company during its early years. Its successes included productions of Cherubini's \"Les deux journées\" (1875); \"The Flying Dutchman\" (1876), with Santley in the title role; the first English-language production of \"Carmen\" (1879), starring Selina Dolaro in the title role and Durward Lely as Don José; \"Rienzi\" (1879); \"Lohengrin\" (1880); \"Tannhäuser\" (1882); and the first British staging of Puccini's \"La bohème\" (1897). Alberto Randegger served as musical director of the company from 1879 to 1885.\nThe company also encouraged and supported new works by English composers. \"Pauline\" in 1876 (Frederic Hymen Cowen), \"Esmeralda\" in 1883 (Arthur Goring Thomas), \"Colomba\" in 1883 and \"The Troubabour\" (Alexander Mackenzie), and \"The Canterbury Pilgrims\" in 1884 (Charles Villiers Stanford) were five of the operas commissioned by the company. Earlier English operas by Wallace, Michael Balfe and Julius Benedict were also included in the company's repertoire – not just standard works like \"The Bohemian Girl\" and \"Maritana\", but less-familiar operas such as Balfe's \"Satanella\" (1858) and Wallace's \"Lurline\" (1860).\n\nCarl Rosa died suddenly in Paris, on 30 April 1889, and was buried in Highgate Cemetery, London. Two years before his death, Rosa had turned his opera enterprise into a limited company, and it was in good financial and artistic shape at the time of his death. Hamilton Clarke was appointed conductor of the company in 1893. In 1897, the company gave the first British performance of Puccini's \"La bohème\" in Manchester under the supervision of the composer. The company then gave a season at Covent Garden, at reduced prices, aimed at attracting \"the masses\" to opera.\n\nBy 1900 the company was facing financial problems from which it was rescued by the conductor Walter van Noorden and his brother Alfred, who took over and restored financial and artistic standards. The company presented two seasons at Covent Garden in 1907–08 and 1909, including new productions of \"Tannhäuser\" and \"Tristan and Isolde\" conducted by Eugène Goossens II. The company survived World War I and the sudden death of Walter van Noorden in 1916, touring the British provinces. Many young British singers joined the company, including Olive Gilbert, Parry Jones, and Eva Turner, who sang Cio-Cio-San and Santuzza when the company presented three postwar seasons at Covent Garden.\n\nIn 1924, after another financial crisis, H. B. Phillips became the company's owner and director, and placed it once more on a sound financial footing. Regular London seasons alternated with large-scale provincial tours during the 1920s and 1930s. Although some productions had to be curtailed during World War II, the company nevertheless presented seasons in London and the provinces. Singers of the 1930s and 1940s included Dora Labbette, Joan Hammond, Heddle Nash, Norman Allin and Otakar Kraus. Conductors included the refugees Walter Susskind (1942–44) Vilém Tauský (1945–49) and Peter Gellhorn, as well as Harold Gray (1943–1946).\n\nPhillips died in 1950. In 1953 the Carl Rosa Trust was formed in association with the Arts Council, who agreed to subsidise the company, now directed by Phillips's widow, Annette. The company gave seasons at Sadler's Wells in 1955 and 1956. In the 1950s, the musical director was Arthur Hammond. Singers during this period included the dramatic soprano Ruth Packer, the tenor Charles Craig and the baritone Joseph Ward. The productions were traditional, but the repertory included some operatic rarities such as Puccini's \"Manon Lescaut\" and Berlioz's \"Benvenuto Cellini\".\n\nAnnette Phillips retired as director of the company in 1957 and was replaced by Professor Humphrey Procter-Gregg. At the same time, the board of Sadler's Wells Opera made an approach to merge the two opera companies. This approach caused outrage in some operatic quarters, and Sadler's Wells's musical director (Alexander Gibson) and administrative heads (Norman Tucker and Stephen Arlen) resigned in protest. In response to the outcry, the board of the Welsh National Opera also made an attempt to merge with Carl Rosa Opera. In the ensuing furore, Procter-Gregg resigned, as did the chairman of the Carl Rosa Trust, Sir Donald Wolfit, and trustees Astra Desmond and Norman Allin. The Arts Council, which was accused in the House of Lords of \"doing their level best to kill [the Carl Rosa company] off altogether\", withdrew its grant. The Carl Rosa Trust raised money privately, and promoted a month's season at the Prince's Theatre in 1960, but the company's final curtain descended after \"Don Giovanni\" on 17 September 1960. Sadler's Wells took over some of the company's members and many of its touring dates.\n\nThe new Carl Rosa Opera Limited was revived in 1997 under the artistic direction of Peter Mulloy. Since then, it has performed West End seasons and toured in the UK and internationally, offering a new repertoire of Gilbert and Sullivan, continental operettas and a few serious operas such as \"La bohème\", often performed in the original languages. Recent conductors have included David Russell Hulme and Martin Handley. Directors include Timothy West.\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "2300968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300968", "title": "Mount Sneffels", "text": "Mount Sneffels\n\nMount Sneffels is the highest summit of the Sneffels Range in the Rocky Mountains of North America. The prominent fourteener is located in the Mount Sneffels Wilderness of Uncompahgre National Forest, west by south (bearing 256°) of the City of Ouray in Ouray County, Colorado, United States. The summit of Mount Sneffels is the highest point in Ouray County.\n\nMount Sneffels is notable for its great vertical relief, as it rises 7,200 feet above the town of Ridgway, Colorado 6 miles to the northeast.\n\nThe primary route to the summit follows a creek bed up from Yankee Boy Basin. A secondary route follows a ridge line to the summit from the saddle of Blue Lakes Pass.\n\nMount Sneffels was named after the volcano Snæfell, which is located on the tip of the Snæfellsnes peninsula in Iceland. That mountain and its glacier, Snæfellsjökull, which caps the crater like a convex lens, were featured in the Jules Verne novel \"A Journey to the Center of the Earth\". An area on the western flank of Mount Sneffels gives the appearance of volcanic crater.\n\nSeen from the Dallas Divide on State Highway 62, Mount Sneffels is one of the most photographed mountains in Colorado.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300969", "title": "Bryan Fury", "text": "Bryan Fury\n\nFormerly an officer in the International Police Organization, Bryan was killed during a shootout in Hong Kong one day. His corpse was transported to the laboratory of a mad scientist named Dr. Abel. In his attempt to complete his project of forming a cyborg army. Abel thought that a perfect cyborg must have the mechanics built by his rival Boskonovitch, so he reanimated Fury's body and sends him to collect data on similar plans by his rival, Dr. Boskonovitch. Bryan sneaks into the third King of Iron Fist tournament, targeting Yoshimitsu, who has strong ties with Boskonovitch.\n\nIn \"Tekken 4\", Abel abandons Bryan when Heihachi Mishima and the Mishima Zaibatsu corporation recruits him as its top scientific advisor. This sends Bryan into a rage, and he enters the fourth tournament, feeling victory will force Abel to change his body, thus becoming the most incredible being in existence once again. This does not happen, and Bryan instead uses his last ounce of strength to knock Abel out before losing consciousness, although it is not known what happened to Abel after this. Yoshimitsu brings him to Dr. Bosconovitch, who promises to transfer Bryan's mind into a new body, although it will take a whole year.\n\nIn \"Tekken 5\", however, Bryan awakens a month later. Bosconovitch tells Bryan that his body was too complex to work with, but as a last resort, he had installed a perpetual power generator in him as an emergency measure. Upon learning this, Bryan attacks Bosconovitch and the Manji clan members assigned to guard the doctor, and leaves the laboratory. Bryan enters the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5 to test his performance with the generator installed, unaware that Yoshimitsu is pursuing him for revenge. Yoshimitsu's repeated meddling hinders Bryan's hopes of unlocking the generator's true powers in the King of Iron Fist Tournament 5. Soon afterwards, Bryan's frustration reaches its pinnacle, and he begins to destroy everything in sight after leaving the tournament. Driven by rage, he ventures to various battlefields around the world, indiscriminately leveling everything in his way into rubble. However, he soon grows tired of the same thing repeating itself countless times. Around this time, he catches wind of the King of Iron Fist Tournament 6. Seeing another chance to test the generator's true powers, he signs up. Bryan also appears in \"Tekken 7\", being one of the 18 characters available in the first location tests of the game.\n\nBryan also appears in \"Tekken Card Challenge\", \"Tekken Tag Tournament\", \"\", \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", and \"Tekken Revolution\". Bryan appears in Capcom-made crossover fighting game \"Street Fighter X Tekken\" as a DLC character with Jack-X as his official tag partner. His Swap Costume is modeled after Urien. According to the download blurb, with his powers and abilities being recognized by Urien, the second in command of a mysterious organization, Bryan is brought into their ranks. Additionally, M. Bison's Swap Costume is modeled after Bryan's appearance.\n\nBryan is depicted as a muscular man with gray hair in his early 30s. He has two tribal tattoos on his neck and wears a trademark red armband on his left arm. Many scars are apparent around his body, including a vertical one on his face, a large cross-shaped one on his back, and a long vertical one on his torso. Once a police detective before becoming a cyber-zombie, Bryan wears numerous outfits with military or police motifs, plus gray camouflage pants, black combat boots, gloves, and knee pads. In his first appearance (\"Tekken 3\" and \"TTT\"), he wears a black vest with white letters on the back that read \"A.T–O\"; their meaning is unknown. \n\nIn \"Tekken 4\", Bryan wears an unbuttoned green military-style jacket, blue trousers with a belt of bullets on his right leg, and a small pocket knife beneath. In \"Tekken 5\" and onwards, he does not wear the green jacket. Now more bullet magazines with shotgun shells in them are tied around his waist and left leg, and small grenades are tied around his lower left leg. He also gains brass knuckles with spikes on them. His Player 2 costume usually consists of snake leather pants, a black T-shirt, and black shoes and gloves. Bryan has worn his characteristic snakeskin pants with gloves throughout the \"Tekken\" series.\n\nIn \"Tekken 7\" (starting from \"Fated Retribution\" arcade title update), Bryan dons his \"Tekken 4\" green jacket once again, with the trouser color scheme now in gray camouflage, except some body parts' sides are torn and show cyborg body parts underneath the skin on his left arm and right leg. Despite both the left arm and right leg outfit parts torn up, Bryan's glove on the left side, and kneepad and boots on the right side remained intact. Additionally, Bryan wears a black bandanna mask with a half-fanged skeletal mouth and tongue design.\n\nBryan is an unorthodox kickboxer who heavily relies on a ferocious punishment game. He can do heavy amounts of damage with his counter-hits, making sure no move goes unpunished. He also has pressuring capabilities, keeping opponents on tilt. Bryan is well known for his \"Fisherman Slam\", a move in which he lifts his opponent by punching his or her chest and slams him or her into the ground, while delivering his evil laugh. He will laugh whenever specific moves (e.g. Jack's \"Volcano Blaster\" and Nina's \"Bad Habit\") are performed on him.\n\nBryan however is relatively unsafe and has a limited range of moves, so risks must be taken to be rewarded with combos near 30% damage. He is the only character whose ten-hit strings exclude low attacks. In all, he is a consistently powerful character with a toolset for intimidating his opponents. Bryan fights using violent kickboxing techniques as he used to rely on \"eight science of limbs\" for most of his movesets such as the combination of punches, kicks, elbows and knees for striking as seen on one of his single win poses.\n\nBryan appears in three \"Tekken\" comics, \"Tekken Saga\" (1997), \"Tekken: Tatakai no Kanatani\" (2000) and \"Tekken Forever\" (2003). In the 2010 live action movie \"Tekken\", Bryan is portrayed by Gary Daniels. He is depicted as a man who has had cybernetic upgrades. He is blackmailed by Kazuya Mishima into killing Jin Kazama to keep his cybernetic upgrades a secret. After Kazuya changes the rules of the tournament making it so that the competitors are forced to kill each other in order to win, Bryan is pitted against Sergei Dragunov, whom he kills with a spiked chain during their fight. He later fights Jin Kazama and although he has the upper hand through most of the fight, Jin flashes back to Jun Kazama's training and follows her advice by exploiting Bryan's weak spots. Bryan is defeated and killed by Jin. Prior to his death, Bryan held the title as the 'current' King of Iron Fist Tournament. Bryan appears in the prequel, \"\", with Daniels reprising his role. A dossier on Bryan is briefly seen in the CGI film \"\" when Anna Williams opens a file containing dossiers on various persons of interest.\n\nUpon Bryan Fury's debut in \"Tekken 3\", \"Next Generation\" called him \"easily the scariest looking of the new batch\". In 2012, Cheat Code Central ranked Bryan as the sixth \"baddest video game fighter\", commenting: \"On paper, Bryan Fury is a kickboxer; in practice, Bryan Fury is insane. He's a cop, he's a zombie, and he's ready to tear your face off if you look at him funny.\" In 2013, \"Complex\" ranked Bryan as the fourteenth-best \"Tekken\" character, commenting: \"It starts with the laugh – that insane, cackling laugh that he belts out at the beginning of his matches. For a zombie, Bryan sure is lively, not to mention crazy.\" 4thletter placed Bryan's \"Tekken 5\" (alongside \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\") ending at 24th place in their list of top 200 fighting game endings. In GamesRadar article for \"Street Fighter X Tekken\", they stated: \"Sometimes searching for a way to extend his artificial life ala the villains in \"Blade Runner\", other times simply entering the tournaments to test his powers, Bryan is one of the tougher customers in the \"Tekken\" series.\" PlayStation Universe included Bryan Fury and Yoshimitsu among the top five rival pairs in \"Tekken Tag Tournament 2\", commenting \"Bryan is your heavy hitter, with his meaty kicks and punches delivering some health-zapping blows, while Yoshimitsu can confuse and abuse his victims with some intricate juggles and mix-up combos.\" Peter Austin from WhatCulture named Bryan the \"2nd Greatest Tekken Character of All Time\". Bryan was ranked by Den of Geek as the \"7th best Tekken character\", with comments \"Someone at Namco realized that Roy Batty from Blade Runner would make for a good fighting game character and God bless them because they were right. Bryan Fury is giving us a ridiculous undead cyborg of a man who wants to smash your jaw off as he laughs maniacally.\" Paste ranked Bryan as the \"16th Best Tekken Character\", commenting \"Fury now wanders the world looking for a fight worthy of his talents, killing anyone brave enough to get in his way with his powerful cybernetic body and kickboxing martial arts style.\" In an official fan poll by Namco, Bryan ranked as the tenth-most requested \"Tekken\" character to be playable in \"Tekken X Street Fighter\", at 9.72% of votes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300975", "title": "Fast Track (British TV programme)", "text": "Fast Track (British TV programme)\n\nFast Track was a 30-minute travel news TV show broadcast on BBC World News. Individual segments were also broadcast on BBC News Channel.\n\nThe final programme was broadcast on 7, 2014. The following week it was replaced by The Travel Show.\n\nThe programme was presented by Rajan Datar and Fiona Foster. There were also regular segments including Widget of the Week, Events and the Best of the Web.\n\nOther presenters included: Simon Calder, Akhtar Khan, Michelle Jana-Chan and Carmen Roberts. Both Datar and Roberts are amongst the main presenters on the successor programme; with Calder presenting a viewer questions segment.\n"}
{"id": "2300982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300982", "title": "Borazine", "text": "Borazine\n\nBorazine is a polar inorganic compound with the chemical formula BHN. In this cyclic compound, the three BH units and three NH units alternate. The compound is isoelectronic and isostructural with benzene. For this reason borazine is sometimes referred to as “inorganic benzene”. Like benzene, borazine is a colourless liquid.\n\nThe compound was reported in 1926 by the chemists Alfred Stock and Erich Pohland by a reaction of diborane with ammonia.\n\nBorazine is synthesized from diborane and ammonia in a 1:2 ratio at 250–300 °C with a conversion of 50%.\nAn alternative more efficient route begins with lithium borohydride and ammonium chloride:\n\nIn a two-step process to borazine, boron trichloride is first converted to trichloroborazine:\n\nThe B-Cl bonds are subsequently converted to B-H bonds:\n\nBorazine is a colourless liquid with an aromatic smell. In water it hydrolyzes to boric acid, ammonia, and hydrogen. Borazine, with a standard enthalpy change of formation ΔH of −531 kJ/mol, is thermally very stable.\n\nBorazine is isoelectronic with benzene and has similar connectivity, so it is sometimes referred to as \"inorganic benzene\". This comparison is not rigorously valid due to the electronegativity difference between boron and nitrogen. X-ray crystallographic structural determinations show that the bond lengths within the borazine ring are all equivalent at 1.429 Å, a property shared by benzene. However, the borazine ring does not form a perfect hexagon. The bond angle is 117.1° at the boron atoms and 122.9° at the nitrogens, giving the molecule distinct symmetry.\n\nThe electronegativity of boron (2.04 on the Pauling scale) compared to that of nitrogen (3.04) and also the electron deficiency on the boron atom and the lone pair on nitrogen favor alternative mesomer structures for borazine.\n\nBoron behaves as a Lewis acid and nitrogen behaves as a Lewis base.\n\nDue to its similarities to benzene, there have been a number of computational and experimental analyses of borazine's aromaticity. The number of pi electrons in borazine obeys the 4n + 2 rule, and the B-N bond lengths are equal, which suggests the compound may be aromatic. The electronegativity difference between boron and nitrogen, however, creates an unequal sharing of charge which results in bonds with greater ionic character, and thus it is expected to have poorer delocalization of electrons than the all-carbon analog. \n\nNatural Bond Orbital (NBO) analysis suggests weak aromaticity in borazine. In the NBO model, B-N bonds in the ring are slightly displaced from the nuclear axes, and B and N have large differences in charge. Natural chemical shielding (NCS) analysis provides some further evidence for aromaticity based on a contribution of the B-N π bond to magnetic shielding. Computations based on NBO orbitals show that this π bond allows for weak ring current which somewhat counteracts a magnetic field simulated at the center of the borazine ring. A small ring current does suggest some delocalization.\n\nTopological analysis of bonding in borazine by the Electron Localization Function (ELF) indicates that borazine can be described as a π aromatic compound. However, the bonding in borazine is less delocalized than in benzene based on a difference in bifurcation values of the electron basins. Larger bifurcation values indicate better electron delocalization, and it is argued that when this bifurcation value is greater than 0.70, the delocalization is sufficient to designate a compound aromatic. For benzene, this value is 0.91, but the borazine π system bifurcates at the ELF value 0.682. This is caused by the difference in electronegativity between B and N, which produces a weaker bond interaction than the C-C interaction in benzene, leading to increased localization of electrons on the B-H and N-H units. The bifurcation value is slightly below the limit of 0.70 which suggests moderate aromaticity.\n\nAlthough often compared with benzene, borazine is far more reactive. With hydrogen chloride it forms an adduct, whereas benzene is unreactive toward HCl.\n\nThe addition reaction with bromine does not require a catalyst. Borazines undergo nucleophilic attack at boron and electrophilic attack at nitrogen. Heating borazine at 70 °C expels hydrogen with formation of a \"borazinyl\" polymer or \"polyborazylene\", in which the monomer units are coupled in a para fashion by new boron-nitrogen bonds. Boron nitride can be prepared by heating polyborazylene to 1000 °C. Borazines are also starting materials for other potential ceramics such as \"boron carbonitrides\". Borazine can also be used as a precursor to grow boron nitride thin films on surfaces, such as the nanomesh structure which is formed on rhodium.\n\nPolyborazylene has been proposed as a recycled hydrogen storage medium for hydrogen fuel cell vehicle applications, using a \"single pot\" process for digestion and reduction to recreate ammonia borane.\n\nAmong other B-N type compounds mixed amino-nitro substituted borazines have been predicted to outperform carbon based explosives such as CL-20.\n\nCarborazine is a six-membered aromatic ring with two carbon atoms, two nitrogen atoms, and two boron atoms in opposing pairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300984", "title": "David Miller (editor)", "text": "David Miller (editor)\n\nDavid Miller is a British writer and journalist based in Wimbledon, London.\n\nDavid Miller has contributed to many publications including the magazines \"Film Review\", \"TV Zone\" and \"Starburst\" (where his work includes interviews with Sir Ian McKellen, Tom Baker and Ray Harryhausen). \n\nUntil 2007 he was editor of the UK-based horror genre magazine \"Shivers\". He then became editor for the last few issues of \"The Poirot Collection\", a partwork which presented the \"Agatha Christie's Poirot\" television episodes. He is currently editor of \"The Agatha Christie Collection\" partwork for Chorion, which brings together and presents the newer episodes of \"Poirot\" and \"Marple\"; the 1983 series \"Partners in Crime\", and Agatha Christie film adaptations such as the Margaret Rutherford Miss Marple films and the all-star adaptations of \"The Mirror Crack'd\", and \"Murder On The Orient Express\".\n\nDavid Miller co-wrote the book \"They Came From Outer Space!\" with Mark Gatiss (of \"The League of Gentlemen\"), and is author of \"The Complete Peter Cushing\"; an overview of the life and works of the actor Peter Cushing. This was originally published as \"The Peter Cushing Companion\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2300985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300985", "title": "Peggy Parish", "text": "Peggy Parish\n\nMargaret Cecile \"Peggy\" Parish (July 14, 1927 – November 19, 1988) was an American writer known best for the children's book series and fictional character Amelia Bedelia. Parish was born in Manning, South Carolina to a poor family, attended the University of South Carolina, and received a Bachelor of Arts degree in English. She worked as a teacher in Oklahoma, Kentucky, and in New York. She taught at the Dalton School in Manhattan for 15 years and published her first children's book while teaching third grade there. She authored over 30 books, which had sold 7 million copies at the time of her death.\n\nParish's most well-known character, Amelia Bedelia, is extremely literal minded and interprets idioms and other verbal expressions literally, which amusingly causes great havoc in each story. This idea originated in conversations between Parish and Greenwillow Books founder Susan Hirschman about the author's observations of her third grade students. Amelia works as a household cook and occasional servant, jobs that Parish did in her home when she was young. She uses no recipes, but, by intuitively combining a little bit of this and a little bit of that, her cakes and cookies and meals are always delicious. She is such a good cook that her employers cannot fire her, despite the disastrous way she misinterprets their instructions: prune the shrubs, scale and ice the fish, file the letters, run over the tablecloth with an iron, shorten these dresses, serve coffee with porridge, heat a can of soup, and so on. The author's word-play, and Amelia Bedelia's fundamental goodness and childlike simplicity appeal to youngsters who are beginning to see and enjoy more than one meaning in a word or a phrase.\n\nParish's nephew, Herman, honored Peggy's life in his book, \"Good Driving, Amelia Bedelia\", by writing in its dedication: \"For Peggy Parish, the real Amelia.\" Recalling Parish's method while working on \"Too Many Rabbits\", Herman described how she wrote out her ideas on index cards, \"and she’d deal out those cards like she was playing solitaire, and then pick them up, retype them, and rewrite everything many times. That was how she worked, and it gave me a lot of respect for her method.\"\n\n\nIllustrated by Wallace Tripp, Fritz Siebel, Lynne Avril, Barbara Siebel Thomas or Lynn Sweat:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2300989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300989", "title": "Carol Decker", "text": "Carol Decker\n\nCarol Ann Decker (born 10 September 1957) is an English musician and lead vocalist for the band T'Pau, which had international success in the late 1980s. Although Decker's music is mainly associated with the group, she also released \"One Heart,\" a solo single in 1995, to support the centenary of the Halifax World Cup Rugby League.\n\nDecker's personal record label is named GnatFish.\n\nDecker was born in Huyton, Merseyside and educated in Wellington, Shropshire. \n\nIn addition to her musical achievements, Decker also has acted on both stage and screen, including a part in the film \"Nine Dead Gay Guys\". TV appearances include \"Hit Me, Baby, One More Time\" (in which she reached the final round, ultimately being beaten by Shakin' Stevens). Decker also appeared in the British comedy series \"Trigger Happy TV\", in which she appeared in a \"bull in a china shop\" sketch (the joke being that she had previously had a hit with the song, \"China in Your Hand\"), and in another sketch where she accompanied Dom Joly as he pretended to be a door-to-door salesman. In an interview with BBC, Decker claims to have invented rap music without being given a proper credit for her invention.\n\nIn 2003 she appeared in the play \"Mum's The Word\" (written by Linda A Carson, Jill Daum, Alison Kelly, Robin Nichol, Barbara Pollard and Deborah Williams) at the Albery Theatre in London.\n\nDecker took part in the prime time BBC One show \"Just the Two of Us\", which began on 2 January 2007. However, despite singing duets with Beverley Knight, Tony Christie and Natasha Hamilton, she and her singing partner Gregg Wallace were the first to be eliminated from the show after singing The Jacksons' \"Blame It on the Boogie\".\n\nDecker appeared in the video for Peter Kay and Matt Lucas's charity single \"I'm Gonna Be (500 Miles)\" for Comic Relief's Red Nose Day 2007. She released the single \"Just Dream\" in download-only format in September 2007.\n\nT'Pau member Ronnie Rogers was her boyfriend at the time, and they co-wrote the majority of the band's songs.\n\nDecker began dating restaurateur Richard Coates in 1996. They have two children, Scarlett (born 1998) and Dylan (born 2002), and married in 2006. That same year, Decker became a joint tenant of the Cherry Tree Inn at Stoke Row near Henley, which Coates had established. It closed in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "2300991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2300991", "title": "Anzhela Atroshchenko", "text": "Anzhela Atroshchenko\n\nAnzhela Atroshchenko-Kinet (, , born ) is a former Turkish athlete of Belarusian descent. She competed in the pentathlon and heptathlon category.\n\nAtroshchenko started her career in athletics with pentathlon at the age of 14 years. She represented the Unified Team at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain and finished 6th.\n\nIn 1999, Atroshchenko signed a contract with the Istanbul club of Enka and became a Turkish citizen. Then she transferred to her current Club Fenerbahçe Athletics. Since then, Atroshchenko has represented Turkey at various competitions.\n\nIn 2001, Atroshchenko finished 4th at the European Championships in Athletics.\n\nAtroshchenko competed in the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece in the women's heptathlon category, but withdrew after four events because of injury.\n\nIn 2005, Atroshchenko took part in the 2005 Mediterranean Games in Almería, Spain, Europe, where she won the bronze medal in heptathlon with 5,870 points.\n\nAtroshchenko regularly commutes between her home in Turkey and Russia, where she trains. She speaks Belarusian, Russian, and Turkish.\n"}
