{"id": "2208139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208139", "title": "Ray Price (cricketer)", "text": "Ray Price (cricketer)\n\nRaymond William Price (born 12 June 1976) is a former Zimbabwean international cricketer. He bowls left-arm orthodox spin. He is the nephew of the renowned Zimbabwean golfer Nick Price.\n\nPrice was born two months prematurely and contracted meningitis when he was a few months old. He was given only a one in four chance of survival, but he survived it. However, although it was not realised for some time, he was left totally deaf by the disease. When he was four, he had an operation to regain his hearing. The operation was successful, but left him with terrible coordination difficulties. He was consequently some way behind his age group when he went to school.\n\nPrice first played cricket with friends in his back garden. When he was at primary school he was a pace bowler, but took up spin at Watershed College, a boarding school near Marondera. He gradually got better and better at cricket, ending up as a key figure for the school team.\n\nHe had attracted the attention of the Mashonaland County Districts cricket side, and he made his first-class debut in 1995/6, although only as an amateur. He was a trained installer of refrigeration and air conditioning units during this period of his career.\n\nPrice began to impress the Zimbabwe selectors and, when an injury and form crisis robbed Zimbabwe of the first-choice spinner Paul Strang, Adam Huckle and Andy Whittall, they selected him for the third Test of the series against Sri Lanka in 1999/2000.\n\nHe became a marginal figure in the squad, sometimes he played and sometimes he did not, however in 2001/02 he began to put in some good performances for the national side, including 5–181, his first Test five wicket haul, against South Africa at Bulawayo and 4–116 against Pakistan at the same ground.\n\nIn 2003 Price toured England and impressed everyone who saw him bowl. He was rated as a better spinner than the English spinner Ashley Giles. It was in that winter's tour of Australia, however, that Ray truly established himself as a world-class bowler, taking 6–121 in the second Test at Sydney. Against the West Indies back home that winter Price ran through their strong batting line-up twice, taking 6–73 and 4–88 in the first Test at Harare and then again in Bulawayo, taking 5–119 and 4–36. He played a pivotal role in Zimbabwe's series win over Bangladesh that winter too, taking 8 wickets in two Tests. He was becoming disaffected with the politicisation of Zimbabwean cricket however, and in 2004 he joined the player rebellion led by captain Heath Streak. Soon afterwards he signed for Worcestershire and announced an ambition to play for England.\n\nPrice has built up a devoted following among supporters of other counties. His appearance at the 2005 Bath Festival was met with jubilation by his fans as they chanted his name throughout the day. His clever left arm spin bamboozled Somerset that day as 'Ray's Barmy Army' went through a selection of pop hits based on the popular Zimbabwe international.\n\nIn 2006 Price revealed to the Press Association that he hoped to play international cricket again – for England after the required qualification period.\n\nIn 2007 he made a surprise return to Zimbabwe, and played in several National League matches for Old Hararians. Some believed this might have been a hint to the national selectors, with the 2007 World Cup approaching. However, he was not selected for the Zimbabwe squad.\n\nPrice rejected a one-year contract with Worcestershire at the end of the 2007 season, ending his three and a half-year spell at the club.\n\nIn late 2007, he officially returned to the Zimbabwe team. He was selected for the Zimbabwe squad to play the West Indies. Ever since, he has been a regular and influential member of the team, used to dry up runs and to take crucial wickets. He has been one of many rebel cricketers who have returned due to the improving situation in Zimbabwe. He has had a superb comeback to the Zimbabwe cricket team, rising to 3rd in the ICC Cricket ODI Bowling Rankings, taking 45 wickets in just 27 matches, while bowling very economically. He played in all ODIs for Zimbabwe in 2009, against the South Africa cricket team, the Bangladesh cricket team, the Sri Lanka cricket team and the Kenya cricket team. Price was unsold at the original IPL 2011 player auction in January and Mumbai Indians bought him at his reserve price of $50,000, in place of the injured Moises Henriques. He became only the second Zimbabwean to play in the IPL.\n\nLater in 2011, Price was selected to play in all three of Zimbabwe's one-off Tests against Bangladesh, Pakistan and New Zealand, after Zimbabwe's five-year hiatus from Test cricket. He took ten wickets over the three matches.\n\nPrice ended his international career on 14 March 2013 during an ODI against Sri Lanka.\n"}
{"id": "2208141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208141", "title": "University of Cyprus", "text": "University of Cyprus\n\nThe University of Cyprus (UCY; ; ) is a public research university established in Cyprus in 1989. It admitted its first students in 1992 and has approximately 7000 students.\n\nThe University of Cyprus was established in 1989 and admitted its first students in 1992.\n\nAdmission for the majority of undergraduate students is by entrance examinations organised by the Ministry of Education and Culture of the Republic of Cyprus. A number of places are reserved for students with special needs or circumstances.\n\nWhen the University of Cyprus opened, the incoming class consisted of 486 undergraduate students. During the academic year 2010–2011, 4691 undergraduate students attended courses offered by the 21 departments. At the same time, there were 1549 postgraduate students.\n\nBased in the capital of Cyprus, Nicosia, teaching is mainly in Greek. The official languages are Greek and Turkish, but only a few Turkish speakers are registered. Since September 2005, the university credit point system is based on European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System.\n\nThose eligible to participate in the entrance examination for the University of Cyprus are Cypriot citizens or those with at least one parent of Cypriot origin. Prospective students will have graduated from a six-year high school. A number of positions are granted to the handicapped or those with special needs.\n\nGreeks of the Diaspora and Cypriots who belong to specific religious groups as determined by the constitution of Cyprus, repatriated Cypriots and Cypriots who are permanent residents in the other countries, can claim a limited number of posts (3% of the admitted Cypriot students) based on General Certificate of Secondary Education or General Certificate of Education or other equivalent exams. Turkish Cypriots who hold a six-year high-school diploma are eligible for admission upon passing special examinations set by the University.\n\nThe programmes of studies at the University of Cyprus are based on credit hours. One credit hour is normally equivalent to one weekly 50-minute «class» per semester. To graduate from the university, a student must successfully complete 120 credit hours as described in the programme of the department, which must include 12–15 credit hours of free elective courses outside the major area of studies and from at least two faculties. In addition to the 120 credit hours, the student must complete the university foreign language requirement of 6 to 9 credits.\n\nAccording to the Webometrics Ranking of World Universities the University of Cyprus ranks 304th in Europe and 696th in the world.\n\nThere are eight faculties:\n\nThe library offers access to more than 700,000 print and electronic book titles, tens of thousands of online and print journal titles, and 160 scientific databases. It also includes audiovisual and digitized material. The library will move to the new university campus, in the new \"Stelios Ioannou Learning Resource Center\", designed by the French architect Jean Nouvel, in 2017.\n\nThere are currently more than 200 ongoing research programs,in collaboration with other academic, private and governmental authorities. A list of the current research programs can be found here Additionally, more than 550 programs were completed in the period 2012-2019. The list of the completed programs can be seen here.\n\nFew notable research activities are the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208151", "title": "Mughirah ibn Abd Allah", "text": "Mughirah ibn Abd Allah\n\nAl-Mughira ibn Abd Allah ibn Umar () was a preeminent leader of the Quraysh tribe's Banu Makhzum clan in Mecca in the 6th century. His descendants, the Banu al-Mughira, became the principle house of the Makhzum for the remainder of the pre-Islamic period and in the centuries following the advent of Islam in the 620s.\n\nAl-Mughira was the son of Abd Allah ibn Umar and a great-grandson of the eponymous progenitor of the Banu Makhzum clan of the Quraysh tribe of Mecca. He was likely active as a leader of his clan and tribe in the mid-6th century CE, a period in which Mecca, traditionally a pilgrimage center for the polytheistic Arabs during the pre-Islamic period, was becoming a political center as well. Al-Mughira was a contemporary of Abd al-Muttalib of the Quraysh's Banu Hashim clan and the grandfather of the Islamic prophet Muhammad. Anecdotes recorded by the 8th and 9th century historians Mus'ab al-Zubayri and al-Baladhuri mention that al-Mughira provoked a rebellion by the nomadic Banu Fazara tribe as a result of disbarring the Fazara's chieftain from making the pilgrimage to Mecca's religious sanctuary, the Ka'aba.\n\nThe Makzhum became the Quraysh's strongest and wealthiest clan during the pre-Islamic period as a result of al-Mughira's leadership. Under him or his sons, Mecca was introduced to trade with foreign markets, particularly with South Arabia and Abyssinia. With the exception of the Ka'aba, the Makhzum controlled Mecca. Al-Mughira's family, known as the Banu al-Mughira, became the preeminent household of the Makzhum and for the remainder of the pre-Islamic period and throughout the post-Islamic period most notable members of the Makhzum were descendants of al-Mughira. The families of al-Mughira's at least nineteen brothers and cousins became cadet branches of the clan. Al-Mughira had thirteen or fourteen sons, including Hisham, al-Walid, Abu Umayya, Abu Rabi'a and Hashim. Seven or eight of al-Mughira's grandsons were slain at the Battle of Badr against Muhammad and his followers in 624. Among his descendants who played a prominent role during the early Muslim conquests were Khalid ibn al-Walid, Ikrima ibn Abi Jahl and al-Harith ibn Hisham. \n\n"}
{"id": "2208156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208156", "title": "Northern brown argus", "text": "Northern brown argus\n\nThe northern brown argus (\"Aricia artaxerxes\") is a butterfly in the family Lycaenidae. It is found throughout\nmuch of the Palearctic ecozone.\n\n\nThis species has confused British entomologists for years. Since its discovery in Britain it has been thought to be a form or a subspecies of the brown argus (\"Aricia agestis\") and as well as a species in its own right. Since 1967 all brown arguses in the north of England and Scotland have been classified as this species. In the last few years genetic studies have shown that some of the colonies along the border of the two species ranges are still being wrongly classified and some colonies in the north of England are now thought to be \"A. agestis\". So far as is known their ranges do not overlap in the UK. The Scottish form is visually quite distinct from the brown argus. It usually has a small white dot in the centre of the upperside forewing and the black spots on the underside are missing leaving larger white spots on the light brown background. The northern English populations belong to a form called \"salmacis\" (called the Durham argus in English) and are very similar to the brown argus including the presence of black spots on the under-wing (see photo) hence all the confusion. In Europe where it is known as the mountain argus, it is widespread in Scandinavia and mountainous regions of central, southern and eastern Europe. The species is considered locally rare in Britain, and the UK has established a detailed Biodiversity Action Plan to conserve this species along with a small number of other butterfly species.\n\nEggs are laid singly on the upperside of the food plant leaves. As far is known common rock-rose (\"Helianthemum nummularium\") seems to be the sole food plant in Britain. The larvae hibernate while still quite small and continue to feed and grow the following spring. Like the brown argus, it is attractive to ants and often attended by them. Pupation takes place at ground level in late May and butterflies are on the wing from mid-June to mid-July.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208159", "title": "Fred Shero", "text": "Fred Shero\n\nFrederick Alexander \"The Fog\" Shero (October 23, 1925 – November 24, 1990) was a Canadian professional ice hockey player, coach, and general manager. He played for the New York Rangers of the National Hockey League (NHL). However, he spent most of his playing career in the minor leagues. Following his playing career, Shero went into coaching. He spent 13 years coaching in the minor leagues before making it to the NHL. As the head coach of the NHL's Philadelphia Flyers, Shero won the Stanley Cup in 1974 and 1975 and reached the Stanley Cup Finals a third time, in 1976. He also had four consecutive seasons of having a 0.700 or better winning percentage and remains the Flyers all-time leader in coaching victories. Shero controversially left the Flyers following the 1977–78 season to become the head coach of the New York Rangers, whom he led to the Stanley Cup Finals in his first season. He resigned from the Rangers after coaching for less than three seasons. Shero had a unique style of coaching that led to several innovations that are still used today. He was the first coach to hire a full-time assistant coach, employ systems, have his players use in season strength training, study film, and he was one of the first coaches to utilize a morning skate. In 2013 Shero was recognized for his contributions when he was elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame as a builder.\n\nHe was known for his enigmatic and introverted personality often appearing or disappearing from a room unnoticed, or being completely lost in thought. He often left philosophical sayings on a chalkboard as a way of provoking thought or as a motivational tool. Prior to game six of the 1974 Stanley Cup Finals, Shero wrote his now famous quote \"Win together today and we walk together forever\" – a statement that continues to be quoted to this day. His son, Ray Shero, also pursued a career in hockey, serving as general manager of the Pittsburgh Penguins (2006-2014) and New Jersey Devils (2015-2020).\n\nAs a 17-year-old, Shero was signed by the New York Rangers to a professional contract. He spent the first year of his contract in the minors splitting time between the New York Rovers and the Brooklyn Crescents in the Eastern Amateur Hockey League. The following season Shero served in the Royal Canadian Navy during World War II, although he continued to play hockey for the Navy as a member of . Upon returning to the Rangers organization, Shero continued to play in the minors for another two seasons before reaching National Hockey League (NHL). On October 16, 1947, he made his NHL debut at the Montreal Forum against the defending Stanley Cup Champion Montreal Canadiens in the 1947–48 season opener. However, he only played 19 games with the Rangers that year while splitting time with the St. Paul Saints in the United States Hockey League. It was during this time that he would first garner the nickname \"The Fog\". Although more often associated with his loner personality and propensity for being lost in thought, the nickname actually began during a 1948 game in St. Paul, Minnesota. High humidity on indoor ice surfaces can result in fog. One night in St. Paul the fog was so thick that Shero was the only player who claimed to be able to see the puck thus earning him the name \"Freddy the Fog\".\n\nThe 1948–49 season saw Shero become a regular in the Rangers line up as well as his first NHL post-season action. The following season Shero set career highs in games played, assists, and points, while the Rangers qualified for the post-season in the fourth and final position. Despite being the lowest seeded team, the Rangers made it to the Stanley Cup Finals by upsetting the Montreal Canadiens in the first round. In the Finals the Rangers met up with the Detroit Red Wings, and on April 23, 1950, the Rangers lost game seven in double overtime. It was the last NHL game Shero ever played. On May 14, 1951, the Rangers traded Shero to the American Hockey League's (AHL) Cleveland Barons. Upon his return to the minors Shero enjoyed team success as a player winning back-to-back Calder Cups with the Barons in 1953 and 1954. Shero was also named an AHL Second Team All-Star in 1954. However, he only played one more season with the Barons before moving to the Western Hockey League (WHL) with the Winnipeg Warriors for the 1955–56 season. Shero captained the Warriors to the WHL championship, in his first season with the club. He played with the Warriors again during the 1956–57 season, but moved to the Quebec Hockey League (QHL) where he played for the Shawinigan Cataractes in 1957–58. During the 1957–58 QHL season Shero first began coaching. He served as a player/assistant coach for the Cataracts and helped them capture the QHL championship. He retired from playing in 1958.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Shero continued to coach and began a 13-year coaching career in the minor leagues. During his time in the minors, Shero proved to be a winning coach accumulating six first-place finishes, five second-place finishes and twice finishing third in various leagues. He also coached the St. Paul Saints to the IHL championship, The Turner Cup, in 1960 and 1961. In 1964, he coached the St. Paul Rangers to the CPHL championship finals. The following season Shero began his AHL coaching career with the Buffalo Bisons whom he led to a Calder Cup Championship in 1970, while winning the Louis A. R. Pieri Memorial Award as AHL coach of the year. For the 1970–71 season Shero again changed teams this time coaching in the Central Hockey League with the Omaha Knights, winning the league Championship. Although in the Rangers farm system for several years and winning at various levels, Shero was never seriously considered to replace Emile Francis as head coach, due to Shero's perceived alcohol problem and a belief that he was an ineffective communicator.\n\nIn 1971 the Philadelphia Flyers were looking for a new coach, and general manager Keith Allen suggested Shero to owner Ed Snider. When asked if he knew Shero, Allen admitted to only knowing him by reputation. He knew Shero always had a winning record, plus he had a \"gut feeling\" he was the right man for the job. Snider agreed to bring in Shero because he trusted Allen's judgment. Thus Shero became the third coach in Flyers history; he had high hopes for the season, predicting that the Flyers would finish no worse than second in the West Division. The 1971–72 season was disappointing for Shero as the Flyers finished in 5th place in the West with a 26–38–14 record. The Flyers 66 points were actually a decrease of 7 points in the standings and they missed the playoffs for the second time in three years. Shero's \"Fog\" nickname was also re-established during the year following a game at the Omni Coliseum in Atlanta when he left the arena through a door with no re-entry and became locked outside prior to the post-game press conference. At the press conference no one knew where Shero was and reporters unsuccessfully searched the arena for him.\n\nIn the off-season Shero decided that the team would be more successful if he coached them like he had coached his minor league teams. Upon being elevated to the NHL, he had decided not to employ systems like he did in the minors, stating that he had too much respect for NHL players. However, he decided that since he had the same kind of players on the Flyers as he did in the minors, he would use the same systems, becoming the first coach to employ systems. Shero insisted on having a scout for talent in Europe, and the club employed Aggie Kukulowicz who had played in the NHL and spoke Russian and Polish.\n\nIn 1972–73 Shero hired Mike Nykoluk as an assistant coach on a one-year tryout basis. Although assistant coaches are common today, Nykoluk was the first \"full-time\" assistant coach in the league, and the decision to hire him led to rumors that Shero must not be much of a coach if he needed help. However, with the additional help Shero guided the Flyers to their first winning season in franchise history, and Nykoluk stayed on as assistant throughout Shero's tenure. Prior to a game during the 72–73 season Shero wrote a quote about commitment on the dressing room blackboard, and the team won the game. From then on Shero wrote inspirational quotes prior to games. After finishing second in the West Division they faced off with the Minnesota North Stars whom they defeated 4-2 winning the first playoff series in Flyers history. In the second round the Flyers matched up with the Montreal Canadiens, who defeated Philadelphia 4-1.\n\nThe following season Shero led the Flyers to a 50–16–12 record, first place in the Western Division. The 112 point total also placed the Flyers just one point behind the Boston Bruins for first overall in the NHL. It also marked the first time in franchise history that the Flyers posted a winning percentage over .700. The division title and high winning percentage accompanied by a 27-point increase from the previous season led to Shero winning the inaugural Jack Adams Award for coach of the year. In the 1974 playoffs the Flyers' first round match-up was against the Atlanta Flames. Following a game three win in which the Flyers went up 3-0, Shero was involved in an infamous incident. Known for taking late night walks and stopping at local bars and pubs for a drink, Shero decided to go for one of those walks following the game three victory. Though no one knows for sure what happened, Shero was allegedly mugged. Shero didn't divulge any information about what really happened but police responded to a disturbance call at 2 a.m. outside the Flyers hotel. Shero was found with a broken thumb and cuts and bruises to his face. Flyers' management sent him home to recuperate and assistant coach Nykoluk coached the team in the series winning game. In the Semi-final round the Flyers were considered underdogs to the New York Rangers. However, the Flyers had home ice advantage. In the seven game series the home team won every game, giving the Flyers a 4-3 series win. It marked the first time an expansion team defeated an Original Six team in a playoff series. The Flyers advanced to the Stanley Cup Finals where they played the Boston Bruins. Prior to game one Shero devised an unconventional game plan. The Flyers were to dump the puck to Bobby Orr's side of the rink. Orr was considered to be one of the league's best players, and the plan was to make him skate hard back to get the puck. In addition the team was to be physically hard on him. Any player who had the opportunity was to check, bump or put a stick on Orr, in an attempt to wear him down. Bobby Clarke later recalled that the strategy did work although it did take some time. Clarke stated that Orr was the best player on the ice in game five, but in game six Orr wasn't the factor he had been in other games. Going into game six, the Flyers had a chance to win the Stanley Cup. Prior to the game Shero wrote his famous quote \"Win today, and we walk together forever\" on the dressing room blackboard for inspiration to the players. The quote is still used today. The Flyers went on to win game six and the series, thus becoming the first expansion team to win the Stanley Cup. Following the series Flyers' goaltender Bernie Parent was named Conn Smythe as playoff MVP. During the official presentation Parent was given a new car, which he promptly gave to Shero.\n\nIn the 1974–75 season Shero led the Flyers to a 51–18–11 record. They won the newly formed Patrick Division, were first in the new Campbell Conference, and first overall in the NHL. In their opening series the Flyers swept the Toronto Maple Leafs, setting up a semi-final match-up against the New York Islanders. After taking a 3–0 series led, the Flyers lost three straight to set up a deciding seventh game. Before game seven, Shero wrote a quote by Dag Hammarskjöld – \"Only he deserves power who every day justifies it.\" on the blackboard. Though Shero never admitted it, the quote was believed to be directed at centre Rick MacLeish who had underperformed in the series. MacLeish responded and in game seven he registered a hat-trick as the Flyers won the game 4–1. The win set up a Stanley Cup Finals match-up with Buffalo. Shero and the coaching staff again devised a game plan. This time it was to stop Buffalo's French Connection line. The first part of the plan was to keep Sabre's centre Gilbert Perreault out of the middle of the rink and to take away his passing options. The Flyers' centres were instructed to play close to Perreault and be physical against him, to the point where it bordered on a penalty. The second part involved wearing down the French Connection. Shero made numerous line changes to keep fresh players out against the Sabre's trio. A perfect example of this part of the strategy was in game one. The French Connection took a 97-second shift and the Flyers made three line changes during that time. Shero's strategy worked, and the Flyers won their second consecutive Stanley Cup.\n\nIn 1975–76 Shero guided the Flyers to a 51–13–16 record highlighted by a 36–2–2 home ice record. Again they won the Patrick division and finished first overall in the Campbell Conference. The season saw the club set franchise records in points and winning percentage. The season also witnessed an exhibition game, that would become one of the most famous games in Flyers history. In 1976 the Soviet Red Army team toured North America and played four games against NHL clubs. On January 11, 1976, the Russians matched up against the Flyers at the Spectrum in Philadelphia. Entering the game the Red Army team was unbeaten, defeating both Boston and the Rangers and registering a tie against the Canadiens. Shero had studied the Soviet style of play, even traveling to the Soviet Union during different off-seasons. Shero even implemented some of the Russian style into his own system, altering it slightly. With his knowledge of the Russian system, Shero devised a game plan. The Russian system involved making several passes often to where a player had just moved from. Shero instructed the Flyers' players not to chase the puck, but rather hold their positions. While in the offensive zone the Flyer forwards were to hold the puck as much as possible to avoid counter-attacks. The Flyers won the game by a final of 4–1 and outshot the Red Army 49–13. The victory led some to see the Flyers as the best team in the world. Following the playoffs that distinction would not last. Bernie Parent had suffered a back injury that limited him to eleven regular season games; he was able to return for the first-round series win versus Toronto. But the pain became too much for Parent to continue to play in subsequent series, and Shero was forced to use his back-up goaltender, Wayne Stephenson. The Flyers were also without second-line centre MacLeish, resulting in a depletion of scoring depth. Despite these setbacks Shero led Philadelphia past Boston in the semi-finals and back to the Stanley Cup Finals. However, the Flyers fell short of winning three straight cups, losing to Montreal in four consecutive games.\n\nIn the 1976–77 season the Flyers' win total slipped from 51 to 48, but they still managed a .700 winning percentage. This marked the fourth consecutive year of having a .700 or better win percentage – once again winning their division and finishing first in the Campbell Conference. In the post season the Flyers again reached the semi-finals, but lost to the Bruins in four straight games. The following season the Flyers' record fell to 45–20–15 finishing second to the Islanders in both the division and the Conference. Shero again led the Flyers to the semi-finals, where they lost to the Bruins once more. At the end of the season Shero, who had one more year left on his contract, submitted a letter of resignation stating that the Flyers needed a change whether they realized it or not. Flyers management had previously heard rumors about Shero wanting to leave Philadelphia and re-join the Rangers organization, and refused to accept his letter of resignation. Shero then signed a $250,000, five-year contract with the Rangers to be their new Head Coach and General Manager, believing he no longer had a contractual agreement to the Flyers. A few weeks after signing Shero, the Rangers gave the Flyers their first-round pick in the 1978 draft (Ken Linseman) and cash as compensation, allowing the Rangers to avoid tampering charges.\n\nIn his first season with the Rangers, Shero led them to a 40–29–11 record – an increase of ten wins over the previous season. The Rangers excelled during the playoffs that year, defeating the Los Angeles Kings in their first round match-up, then knocking off Shero's former club Philadelphia. In the semi-finals the Rangers upset their cross town rival Islanders to reach the Stanley Cup Finals for the first time since 1972. The Rangers matched up against the Montreal Canadiens in the Finals. After upsetting Montreal in game one of the finals, Phil Esposito asked Shero to get the team out of town prior to game two, two nights later. Shero decided against such a move and several Rangers' players were rumored to have \"partied hard\" following the win. The Rangers took a 2–0 lead in game two before losing the game and eventually the series, 4–1. In the 1979–80 season the Rangers record dipped to 38–32–10, good for fourth place in the Campbell conference. In the playoffs the Rangers defeated the Flames in round one, but lost a playoff rematch to the Flyers, 4–1, in round two. After the season Shero was honored with the Lester Patrick Trophy for his contributions to the growth of hockey in the United States, an award he shared with the \"Miracle on Ice\" 1980 U.S. Olympic ice hockey Team. The next season the Rangers suffered injuries to key players resulting in a 4–13–3 start. Shero decided to step down from both his positions and was replaced by Craig Patrick.\n\nIn 1982, Shero failed in an attempt to become the Detroit Red Wings head coach. A year later he was diagnosed with stomach cancer. He underwent surgery but remained healthy enough to start his new position as color analyst for the New Jersey Devils radio broadcasts. In 1987, Shero decided he wanted to experience coaching in Europe and spent one season coaching Tilburg Trappers in the Netherlands. He was recommended for the position in Tilburg by Lou Vairo, who had been an assistant coach with the New Jersey Devils.\n\nWith his health declining Shero returned to the Flyers' organization as a special assistant in 1989. The reunion was to help him with his medical costs, but it was also something that was very important to Shero on a personal level, as it was a return to the organization he had the most success with. On March 22, 1990, Shero was elected into the Flyers' Hall of Fame. Eight months later on November 24, Shero died at Cooper Hospital in Camden, New Jersey. He was 65.\n\nHis passing did not diminish his popularity in Philadelphia and in a 1999 Philadelphia Daily News poll, he was selected as the city's greatest professional coach/manager, beating out other notable coaches such as: Connie Mack of MLB Philadelphia Athletics, Dick Vermeil, and Greasy Neale of the NFL Philadelphia Eagles. In 2010 there was a push to get him elected into the Hockey Hall of Fame, which included an online petition at Flyershistory.net. Shero was eventually elected to the Hockey Hall of Fame as a builder in 2013. He remains the winningest coach in Flyers history with 308 wins, plus 48 more in playoff competition.\n\nShero's introverted, enigmatic personality had an effect on the way in which he coached players. Shero often communicated with his players by way of notes left in their lockers. When he did talk to them, he was known for never yelling. He believed that when coaches yell they do it for their own sake. He always defended his player whether it was in the press or even against management. He always tried to make sure his players were focused during the game. He often asked them how much time was left in the period to force them to pay attention. He had a unique take on practice as well. If the team was winning then he worked the team hard. If they were losing then there would be a low key practice. He believed that he could get more out of players when they were winning. He often had drills designed to let the players have fun, stating that \"Hockey is a child's game played by men. Since it's a child's game it ought to be fun\". To have fun the Flyers occasionally had 12-on-12 games with the winning team earning a small monetary reward. He sometimes had the players perform drills that lacked purpose which the team performed until a player questioned the validity of the drill. At that point Shero stopped the drill and praised the player for being alert. Shero was notoriously bad with names. On one occasion it led to him trading for the wrong player. While GM of the Rangers Shero traded for Cam Connor believing it was Colin Campbell. Upon his arrival Connor had to explain that he was a winger and not a defenceman.\n\nOften credited with using fighting and intimidation as a tactic, Shero never coached players to fight. He valued team toughness and insisted that players take the body and follow through with their checks. When it came to fighting Shero was quoted as saying \"I swear I have never told a player to attack another player. In fact, I have told my players if they ever hear me saying something like this, they can break a stick over my skull. I ask only that they play aggressively.\" In an interview in the HBO documentary \"Broad Street Bullies\" Shero states that he had a team that liked fighting so he let them fight. Demonstrating his personal coaching philosophy that \"You have to learn to win with what you got or you don't win at all.\"\n\nShero was an innovator, aside from being the first coach to employ systems, and known as one of the first Western coaches to study Soviet influences, he was the first coach to study film. His son Ray even recalls his father breaking down games from radio broadcasts. He was also the first to have his players use in season strength training, with the use of an Apollo machine, a precursor to Nautilus equipment. As well as one of the first coaches to adopt the morning skate. He was one of the first coaches to have a game plan specifically designed on how to attack opposing teams, although not all of them worked to plan. Bernie Parent recalls a game against Montreal in which Shero decided to out skate the highly skilled Canadiens. After the first period, during which the Flyers' goaltender faced 21 shots, he jokingly summed it up by saying, \"the Zamboni didn't even need to resurface the other end of the ice.\" Yet it illustrates Shero's understanding that he didn't know everything about coaching and his pursuit to learn more.\n\nShero was the son of Russian immigrants who moved to Winnipeg to avoid religious persecution. He was often bullied for being the son of an immigrant and went out of his way to avoid some of other children in his neighborhood. Shero credited his childhood experiences as a reason why he tended to be a loner. As a child Shero took up boxing and at age 13 he became a Canadian Bantamweight champion. His success gave him a chance to become a professional boxer, but he decided to play hockey instead. When he signed his first professional contract with the Rangers, his father cautioned him that \"hockey players are looking for work when they are 30.\" When he left Winnipeg's Isaac Newton High School to go off to New York to play for the Rovers, he continued his education in his new surroundings.\n\nIn 1957, Shero was introduced to his future wife, Mariette, by his teammate Eddie Johnston in Shawinigan Falls, Quebec. Mariette was the sister of a woman Johnston was dating, at the time. Johnston recalled that Shero told him that he was going to marry Mariette after their first date, which he did shortly thereafter. Fred and Mariette had two sons, Rejean (Ray) and Jean-Paul. Ray Shero also pursued a career in hockey, serving as general manager of the Pittsburgh Penguins (2006-2014) and New Jersey Devils (2015-2020).\n\nFascinated by the law, Shero contemplated retiring from coaching to attend law school following the Flyers Stanley Cup victory, believing he had nothing left to prove in hockey. Although he remained in coaching he did take a correspondence course in law. Known to spend time at his local library, Shero enjoyed the works of William Shakespeare and Charles Dickens, and prided himself for being \"the very first New York Ranger ever to hold a New York Public Library card.\" Among other interests was playing the violin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208166", "title": "James Frey", "text": "James Frey\n\nJames Frey (born September 12, 1969) is an American writer and businessman. His first two books, \"A Million Little Pieces\" (2003) and \"My Friend Leonard\" (2005), were bestsellers marketed as memoirs. Large parts of the stories were later found to be exaggerated or fabricated, sparking a media controversy. His 2008 novel \"Bright Shiny Morning\" was also a bestseller.\n\nFrey is the founder and CEO of Full Fathom Five. A transmedia production company, FFF is responsible for the young adult adventure/science fiction series \"The Lorien Legacies\" of seven books written by Frey and others, under the collective pen name Pittacus Lore. Frey's first book of the series, \"I Am Number Four\" (2010), was made into a feature film by DreamWorks Studios.\n\nFrey was born in Cleveland, Ohio. He is a Denison University alumnus, a history major from the class of 1992. He wrote the screenplays to the films \"Kissing a Fool\" and \"Sugar: The Fall of the West\", the latter of which he directed as well. Both were produced in 1998.\n\nDoubleday published \"A Million Little Pieces\" in April 2003, which Frey wrote as a memoir of drug addiction, crime and eventual journey to sobriety. Initial reception was mostly positive, with Amazon.com editors selecting it as their favorite book of that year, and Frey followed it up with the sequel \"My Friend Leonard\" in 2005. The second book centered on the father-son relationship which Frey formed with his friend Leonard, from the Hazelden addiction treatment program. \"My Friend Leonard\" was published in June 2005 by Riverhead, and became a bestseller. Significant parts of the two books, initially promoted as factual, later were revealed to be invented by Frey (see ).\n\nDespite the controversy, Frey signed a new three-book, seven-figure deal in late 2007 with Harper Collins to release his novel \"Bright Shiny Morning\", published May 13, 2008. \"Bright Shiny Morning\" appeared on the \"New York Times\" bestseller list, and received mixed reviews. The \"<nowiki>New York Times'</nowiki>\"s Janet Maslin, who had been one of Frey's detractors, gave the book a rave review. \"The New Yorker\" review described the novel as \"banal\". The book also received highly polarized reviews by the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"The Guardian\". The first epigraph states: \"Nothing in this book should be considered accurate or reliable.\"\n\nIn 2011, \"The Final Testament of the Holy Bible\", depicted as \"the last book of the Bible\" was released on Good Friday, April 22, 2011. He self-published e-editions of the book. A self-professed atheist, his work has reflected his attempt to write about a god that he \"might actually believe in.\"\n\nOn August 19, 2010, the \"New York Post\"'s \"Page Six\" gossip column reported that Frey has teamed with executive producers Mark Wahlberg and Steve Levinson to write the pilot for a one-hour drama for HBO that will focus on a behind-the-scenes look into the porn industry in Los Angeles. Frey described the show as \"a sprawling epic about the porn business in LA. We're going to tell the type of stories no one else has told before, and go places no one has gone before.\" In August 2012, Frey published \"A Moving Story\", chronicling the workplace organizing of a New York moving company, on the website Libcom.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, \"Endgame: The Calling\", the first book in a trilogy of novellas by Frey and Nils Johnson-Shelton, was published by HarperCollins. It was turned into an augmented reality game by Google's Niantic Labs and 20th Century Fox bought the movie rights . The premise of the novella is that aliens created human life on Earth and 12 ancient lines are destined to train a player to fight to the death for the survival of their line once Endgame begins. The book series will have clues which will lead one lucky winner to a cash prize.\n\nIn November 18, 2015, Pepsi released \"Black Knight Decoded,\" a fictional narrative imagining a conspiracy involving the Black Knight satellite legend. Frey was credited as the writer.\n\nIn 2019, Frey came up with the story idea for the film \"Queen & Slim\", which Lena Waithe turned into a screenplay.\n\nOn January 8, 2006, \"The Smoking Gun\" website published an article called \"A Million Little Lies: Exposing James Frey's Fiction Addiction\", alleging that Frey fabricated large parts of his memoirs, including details about his criminal record. One incident in the book that came under particular scrutiny was a 1986 train-automobile collision in St. Joseph Township, Michigan.\n\nThe website alleged that Frey never had been incarcerated and that he greatly exaggerated the circumstances of a key arrest detailed in the memoir: hitting a police officer with his car, while high on crack, which led to a violent melee with multiple officers and an 87-day jail sentence. In the police report that \"TSG\" uncovered, Frey was held at a police station for no more than five hours before posting a bond of a few hundred dollars for some minor offenses. The arresting officer, according to \"TSG\", recalled Frey as having been polite and cooperative.\n\nThe book's hardcover (Doubleday) and paperback (Anchor Books) publishers initially stood by Frey, but examination of the evidence caused the publishers to alter their stances. As a consequence, the publishers decided to include a publisher's note and an author's note from Frey as disclaimers to be included in future publications.\n\nThe \"Minneapolis Star Tribune\" had questioned Frey's claims as early as 2003. Frey responded by saying \"I've never denied I've altered small details.\" In a May 2003 interview, Frey claimed that his publisher had fact-checked his first book.\n\nOn January 11, 2006, Frey appeared with his mother on \"Larry King Live\". He defended his work while claiming that all memoirs alter minor details for literary effect. Frey consistently referred to the reality of his addiction, which he said was the principal point of his work. Oprah Winfrey called at the end of the show defending the essence of Frey's book and the inspiration it provided to her viewers, but said she relied on the publisher to assess the book's authenticity.\n\nOn January 26, 2006, as more accusations against the book continued to surface, Winfrey invited Frey onto her show. She wanted to hear from him directly whether he had lied to her or \"simply\" embellished minor details, as he had told Larry King. Frey admitted to several of the allegations against him. He acknowledged that \"The Smoking Gun\" had been accurate when the website reported that Frey only spent a few hours in jail rather than the 87 days Frey claimed in his memoirs.\n\nWinfrey then brought out Frey's publisher Nan Talese to defend her decision to classify the book as a memoir. Talese admitted that she had done nothing to check the book's veracity despite the fact that her representatives had assured Winfrey's staff that the book was indeed non-fiction and described it as \"brutally honest\" in a press release.\n\nSeveral columnists weighed in on the controversy, including David Carr of the \"New York Times\", \"New York Times\" columnist Maureen Dowd, Larry King, and the \"Washington Post\"'s Richard Cohen.\n\nOn January 31, 2006, it was announced that Frey had been dropped by his literary manager, Kassie Evashevski of Brillstein-Grey Entertainment, over matters of trust. In an interview with \"Publishers Weekly\", Evashevski said that she had \"never personally seen a media frenzy like this regarding a book before\".\n\nOn February 1, 2006, Random House published Frey's note to the reader which was included in later editions of the book. In the note, Frey apologized for fabricating portions of his book.\n\nOn February 24, 2006, Frey's publicist revealed that Penguin imprint Riverhead had dropped out of a two-book, seven-figure deal with Frey. Riverhead previously published Frey's bestselling 2005 book \"My Friend Leonard\".\n\nOn September 12, 2006, Frey and publisher Random House reached a tentative legal settlement, whereby readers who felt that they had been defrauded by Frey's \"A Million Little Pieces\" would be offered a refund. In order to receive the refund, customers had to submit a proof of purchase such as pieces of the book itself (page 163 from the hardcover or the front cover from the paperback), and complete a sworn statement indicating that they had purchased the book under the assumption that it was a memoir.\n\nOn July 28, 2007, at a literary convention in Texas, Nan Talese verbally attacked Oprah for misrepresenting the purpose of the interview on January 26, 2006. Just before air time, both Talese and Frey were told the topic of the show had been changed to \"The James Frey Controversy\".\n\nOn November 2, 2007, the Associated Press published a story about a judgment in favor of readers who felt deceived by Frey's claims of \"A Million Little Pieces\" being a memoir. Although the publisher, Random House, had set aside $2.35 million for lawsuits, only 1,729 readers came forward to receive a refund for the book. The refund offer was extended to anyone who had purchased the book prior to Frey's disclosing the falsehoods therein. Chicago lawyer Larry D. Drury, who represented the class, received approximately $1.3 million for legal fees, distribution of the legal notice, and charitable donations to three charities, while total claimants' refunds issued to readers only came to $27,348. The publisher also agreed to provide a disclosure at the beginning of the book, citing the somewhat fictitious nature of the text.\n\nIn May 2009, \"Vanity Fair\" reported that Winfrey had called Frey and apologized for the surprise topic change of the January 26, 2006. She made a televised apology in 2011.\n\nFollowing the events of Frey's \"Oprah\" appearance, \"South Park\" created a parody of the events with their character Towelie, titled \"A Million Little Fibers\".\n\nIn 2009, Frey formed Full Fathom Five, a young adult novel publishing company that aimed to create highly commercial novels like \"Twilight\". In November 2010, controversy arose when an MFA student who had been in talks to create content for the company released her extremely limiting contract online. The contract allows Frey license to remove an author from a project at any time, does not require him to give the author credit for their work, and only pays a standard advance of $250. A \"New York\" magazine article titled \"James Frey's Fiction Factory\" gave more details about the company, including information about the highly successful \"Lorien Legacies\" series, a collaboration between MFA student Jobie Hughes and Frey. The article details how Frey removed Hughes from the project, allegedly during a screaming match between the two authors. In the article, Frey is accused of abusing and using MFA students as cheap labor to churn out commercial young adult books.\n\n\n\"As a member of the collective pseudonym Pittacus Lore\": Lorien Legacies\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208188", "title": "Geometric integrator", "text": "Geometric integrator\n\nIn the mathematical field of numerical ordinary differential equations, a geometric integrator is a numerical method that preserves geometric properties of the exact flow of a differential equation.\n\nWe can motivate the study of geometric integrators by considering the motion of a pendulum.\n\nAssume that we have a pendulum whose bob has mass formula_1 and\nwhose rod is massless of length formula_2. Take the\nacceleration due to gravity to be formula_3. Denote by\nformula_4 the angular displacement of the rod from the vertical,\nand by formula_5 the pendulum's momentum. The Hamiltonian of\nthe system, the sum of its kinetic and potential energies, is\n\nwhich gives Hamilton's equations\n\nIt is natural to take the configuration space formula_8 of all formula_9 to be the unit\ncircle formula_10, so that formula_11 lies on the\ncylinder formula_12. However, we will take\nformula_13, simply because formula_11-space is\nthen easier to plot. Define formula_15\nand formula_16. Let us experiment by\nusing some simple numerical methods to integrate this system. As usual,\nwe select a constant step size, formula_17, and for an arbitrary non-negative integer formula_18 we write\nformula_19.\nWe use the following methods.\n\nThe observation that formula_25 is constant along the solution\ncurves of the Hamilton's equations allows us to describe the exact\ntrajectories of the system: they are the level curves of formula_26. We plot, in formula_27, the exact\ntrajectories and the numerical solutions of the system. For the explicit\nand implicit Euler methods we take formula_28, and \"z\" = (0.5, 0) and (1.5, 0) respectively; for the other two methods we take formula_29, and \"z\" = (0, 0.7), (0, 1.4) and (0, 2.1).\n\nThe explicit (resp. implicit) Euler method spirals out from (resp. in to) the origin. The other two methods show the correct qualitative behaviour, with the implicit midpoint rule agreeing with the exact solution to a greater degree than the symplectic Euler method.\n\nRecall that the exact flow formula_30 of a Hamiltonian system with one degree of freedom is\narea-preserving, in the sense that\nThis formula is easily verified by hand. For our pendulum\nexample we see that the numerical flow formula_33 of the explicit Euler method is not area-preserving; viz.,\n\nA similar calculation can be carried out for the implicit Euler method,\nwhere the determinant is\n\nHowever, the symplectic Euler method is area-preserving:\n\nthus formula_37. The implicit midpoint rule has similar geometric properties.\n\nTo summarize: the pendulum example shows that, besides the explicit and\nimplicit Euler methods not being good choices of method to solve the\nproblem, the symplectic Euler method and implicit midpoint rule agree\nwell with the exact flow of the system, with the midpoint rule agreeing\nmore closely. Furthermore, these latter two methods are area-preserving,\njust as the exact flow is; they are two examples of geometric (in fact, symplectic) integrators.\n\nThe moving frame method can be used to construct numerical methods which preserve Lie symmetries of the ODE. Existing methods such as Runge-Kutta can be modified using moving frame method to produce invariant versions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208191", "title": "English Foxhound", "text": "English Foxhound\n\nThe English Foxhound is one of the four foxhound breeds of dog. It is a cousin of the American Foxhound. They are scent hounds, bred to hunt foxes by scent.\n\nThe breed standards' guidelines for showing English Foxhounds requires them to be tall at the withers. The skull is thick and the muzzle is long. The legs are muscular, straight-boned, and the paws are rounded, almost cat-like. The English Foxhound comes in any hound color, most often tricolor, tan, red, or black with a white base.\n\nThe English Foxhound is a pack hound, therefore, it gets along well with other dogs and enjoys human companionship. It gets along with horses, children, and other pets, as it is a gentle, social, and tolerant breed. It is an active breed that enjoys tracking foxes and has the stamina to run all day with few breaks.\n\nThere are very few health problems in this breed. Occasionally seen are chronic hip dysplasia, renal disease, and epilepsy. The breed's lifespan is typically 10–13 years.\n\nThe English Foxhound was created in the late 16th century, as a result of the perception of the depletion of deer in England. Nobles and royalty had hunted deer for both food and sport, using the Deerhound or Staghound for this purpose. During the reign of Henry VIII, it was perceived that a new prey was needed, and the fox was selected. The English Foxhound was then created by a careful mixing of the Greyhound, for speed, the Fox Terrier, for hunting instinct, and the Bulldog, for tenacity in the hunt.\n\nDuring the British Raj, English Foxhounds were exported to India for the purpose of jackal coursing, though due to the comparatively hotter weather, they were rarely long lived. Foxhounds were preferred for this purpose over greyhounds, as the former was not as fast, and could thus provide a longer, more sporting chase.\n\nStudbooks for the English foxhound have been kept since the 18th century. Breeding lines and the work of people involved in breeding hounds is extremely important in the continual development of this working breed. Puppy shows are important events in the hunting calendar and allow the local hunt followers and visiting hound breeders to examine the latest generation from the hound pack. The International Foxhound Association was created in 2012 for the promotion of the English Foxhound as a breed.\n"}
{"id": "2208205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208205", "title": "Janice Pennington", "text": "Janice Pennington\n\nJanice Marie Pennington (born July 8, 1942) is an American model and was one of the original \"Barker's Beauties\" models on \"The Price Is Right\", serving as the show's longest-running model, from the show's premiere in 1972 to 2000. She was also \"Playboy\" magazine's Playmate of the Month for the May 1971 issue. She is the older sister of fellow model Ann Pennington. Pennington is also the co-founder of the Hollywood Film Festival.\n\nPennington was born in Seattle, Washington. She has been married three times. Her first marriage was to Glenn Jacobson.\n\nHer second husband was German mountain climber Friedrich \"Fritz\" Stammberger, who disappeared in Afghanistan in 1975 while mountain climbing. After years of searching, she speculated that Fritz was actually helping the CIA establish mountain bases along the Afghanistan-Pakistan border, and had died during a battle with USSR forces. This has never been proven.\n\nIn 1984, she married writer Carlos de Abreu, a native of Mozambique.\n\nFor 28 years, Pennington served as a model on \"The Price Is Right\", handing the microphone to Bob Barker at the start of more than 5,000 shows. She also handed off to Dennis James and Tom Kennedy while the show was in syndication in 1972–77 and 1985–86, respectively.\n\nIn June 1988, a camera hit Pennington and she fell off the stage. She was unconscious and was taken to a hospital; taping of the episode resumed after 45 minutes. Pennington's resulting surgery left her with scars and one shoulder shorter than the other, so she could no longer wear swimsuits on the show.\n\nWhen Pearson Television took over the show on October 19, 2000, Pennington's employment ended following taping of the December 13 episode. She signed a confidential settlement agreement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208211", "title": "Fredrikstad Fortress", "text": "Fredrikstad Fortress\n\nFredrikstad fortress (\"Fredrikstad festning\") was a fortification in Fredrikstad, Norway. It was the base of the , with defence related responsibilities for the east side of Oslofjord.\n\nFredrikstad Fortress was constructed between 1663 and 1666 by the officer Willem Coucheron and his son Anthony Coucheron following the order of the Dano-Norwegian King Frederick II. A temporary fortification had previously been built on the site during the Torstenson War (1644–1645) between Sweden and Denmark–Norway.\n\nThe first commander was appointed 6 January 1662; he was Lieutenant Colonel Johan Eberhard Speckhan, succeeded by Johan von Fircks in 1663. Besides the fortress the prison works was also under the supervision of the commander of Fredrikstad fortress. In 1716 the fortress was used by the naval hero Peter Tordenskjold when he attacked the Swedish fleet during the Battle of Dynekilen.\n\nThe only time the fortress were attacked was during the Swedish–Norwegian War (1814). The fortress, under the command of Nils Christian Frederik Hals, capitulated on 4 August 1814.\n\nThe fortress was closed in 1903, but continued to serve as a garrison. Fredrikstad fortress is unique in Norway by being the only fortress that is preserved as it was. The remaining military installations in Fredrikstad were closed in 2002 and today the fortress with its mix of old buildings and art exhibitions is very popular for visitors.\n\nThe fortifications in Fredrikstad included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208217", "title": "Kirby's Star Stacker", "text": "Kirby's Star Stacker\n\nKirby's Star Stacker is a 1997 puzzle video game developed by HAL Laboratory for the Game Boy.\n\nIt received a remake for the Super Famicom in Japan.\n\n\"Kirby's Star Stacker\" is similar in many respects to other puzzle games that were around at the time of its release, most notably, \"Dr. Mario\" and \"Tetris\". The goal of the game is to earn as many stars possible by matching pairs blocks, (also referred to as friends in-game) that fall from the top of the play area. There are three types of blocks, all based on Kirby's friends from \"Kirby's Dream Land 2\": Rick the hamster, Coo the owl, and Kine the fish. Stars are scored by sandwiching the stars between two matching blocks. When stars are scored, they disappear from the play area along with the pair of blocks enclosing them. The game is lost when the falling blocks reach the top of the play area (middle rows only), so it is critical to eliminate as many blocks as possible by scoring stars.\n\nThere are four game modes in \"Star Stacker\".\n\n\nThere is a high score table for the Challenge and Time Attack modes, showing the top three scores for each mode.\n\nKirby no Kirakira Kizzu (カービィのきらきら きっず - Kirby's Sparkling Kids), also commonly referred to as Kirby's Super Star Stacker, is a video game released in 1998 for the Super Famicom; ROMs for the game were distributed via the Nintendo Power flash RAM service, before the game was given a standard cartridge release a year later. \"Kirby no Kirakira Kizzu\" is an SNES remake of \"Kirby's Star Stacker\" with nearly identical gameplay. The point of the game is to remove falling star blocks by placing matching animal friends (Rick, Coo, and Kine) at either end. One of the primary enhancements is story mode, in which Kirby faces several opponents from other Kirby games (mostly from \"Kirby Super Star\"). The game's title is exactly the same as the Japanese title of the Game Boy version of \"Kirby's Star Stacker\". There were plans to release the game overseas, but they were halted after Nintendo of America stopped shipping SNES games in 1997, leaving the game Japan-exclusive.\n\nThis version was released on the Wii Virtual Console in Japan on January 5, 2010.\n"}
{"id": "2208221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208221", "title": "Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site", "text": "Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site\n\nThe Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site (also known as the Vassall-Craigie-Longfellow House and, until December 2010, Longfellow National Historic Site) is a historic site located at 105 Brattle Street in Cambridge, Massachusetts. It was the home of noted American poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow for almost 50 years, and it had previously served as the headquarters of General George Washington (1775–76).\n\nThe house was built in 1759 for John Vassall, who fled the Cambridge area at the beginning of the American Revolutionary War because of his loyalty to the king of England. George Washington occupied it as his headquarters beginning on July 16, 1775, and it served as his base of operations during the Siege of Boston until he moved out on April 4, 1776. Andrew Craigie, Washington's Apothecary General, was the next person to own the home for a significant period of time. He purchased the house in 1791 and instigated its only major addition. Craigie's financial situation at the time of his death in 1819 forced his widow Elizabeth to take in boarders, and one of those borders was Henry Wadsworth Longfellow. He became its owner in 1843 when his father-in-law Nathan Appleton purchased it as a wedding gift. He lived in the home until his death in 1882.\n\nThe last family to live in the home was the Longfellow family, who established the Longfellow Trust in 1913 for its preservation. In 1972, the home and all of its furnishings were donated to the National Park Service, and it is open to the public seasonally. It presents an example of mid-Georgian architecture style.\n\nThe original house was built in 1759 for Loyalist John Vassall who inherited the land along what was called the King's Highway in Cambridge when he was 21. He demolished the structure that had stood there and built a new mansion, and the home became his summer residence with his wife Elizabeth (née Oliver) and children until 1774. His wife's brother was Thomas Oliver, the royal lieutenant governor of Massachusetts who moved to Cambridge in 1766 and built the Elmwood mansion. Vassall's house and all his other properties were confiscated by Patriots in September 1774 on the eve of the American Revolutionary War because he was accused of being loyal to the King. He fled to Boston, and later exiled to England where he died in 1792.\nThe home was used as a temporary hospital in the days after the Battles of Lexington and Concord. Colonel John Glover and the Marblehead, Massachusetts Regiment occupied the house as their temporary barracks in June 1775. General George Washington, Commander-in-Chief of the newly formed Continental Army, initially used the Benjamin Wadsworth House at Harvard College as his headquarters, but he decided that he needed more space for his staff; he moved into the Vassall House on July 16, 1775 and used it as his headquarters and home until he departed on April 4, 1776. During the Siege of Boston, he found the view of the Charles River from the house particularly useful. The home was shared with several aides-de-camp, including colonel Robert H. Harrison. Washington was visited at the house by John Adams and Abigail Adams, Benedict Arnold, Henry Knox, and Nathanael Greene. In his study, he also confronted Dr. Benjamin Church with evidence that he was a spy. It was in this house that Washington received a poem written by Phillis Wheatley, the first published African-American poet. \"If you should ever come to Cambridge\", he wrote to her, \"I shall be happy to see a person so favored by the Muses\".\n\nMartha Washington joined her husband in December 1775 and stayed until March 1776. She brought with her Washington's nephew George Lewis as well as her son John Parke Custis and his wife Eleanor Calvert. On Twelfth Night in January 1776, the couple celebrated their wedding anniversary in the home. Mrs. Washington reported to a friend that \"some days we have [heard] a number of cannon and shells from Boston and Bunkers Hill\". She used the front parlor as her personal reception room, still furnished with the English-made furniture left behind by the Vassalls. The Washingtons also had several servants, including a tailor named Giles Alexander, and several slaves including \"Billy\" Lee. They also entertained very often. Surviving household accounts show that the family purchased large quantities of beef, lamb, wild ducks, geese, fresh fish, plums, peaches, barrels of cider, gallons of brandy and rum, and 217 bottles of Madeira wine purchased in a two-week period.\n\nWashington left the house in April 1776. Nathaniel Tracy had made a great fortune as one of the earliest and most successful privateers under Washington, and he owned the house from 1781 to 1786. He then went bankrupt and sold it to Thomas Russell, a wealthy Boston merchant who occupied it until 1791.\n\nAndrew Craigie had been the first Apothecary General of the American army, and bought the house in 1791. He hosted Prince Edward, Duke of Kent and Strathearn in the ballroom; Prince Edward was the father of Queen Victoria. Craigie married Elizabeth while living in the house; she was the daughter of a Nantucket clergyman and only 22 years old, 17 years younger than he.\n\nCraigie overspent trying to restore the home, and left Elizabeth in great debt when he died in 1819. She took in boarders to support herself, most often people connected to nearby Harvard University. Short-term residents of the home included Jared Sparks, Edward Everett, and Joseph Emerson Worcester. Sparks moved into the home in April 1833 while he was preparing a biography of Washington based on original documents. He recorded in his journal: \"It is a singular circumstance that, while I am engaged in preparing for the press the letters of General Washington which he wrote at Cambridge after taking command of the American army, I should occupy the same rooms that he did at that time.\" Another lodger was Sarah Lowell, an aunt of James Russell Lowell.\n\nLongfellow moved to Cambridge to take a job at Harvard College as Smith Professor of Modern Languages and of Belles Lettres, and rented rooms on the second floor of the home beginning in the summer of 1837. Elizabeth Craigie initially refused to rent to him because she thought that he was a student at Harvard, but Longfellow convinced her that he was a professor there, as well as the author of \"Outre-Mer\", the very book that she was reading.\n\nLongfellow's new landlady had earned a reputation for being eccentric and often wore a turban. In the 1840s, Longfellow wrote about an incident where canker-worms were devastating the elm trees on the property. Elizabeth Craigie \"would sit by the open window and let them crawl over her white turban. She refused to have the trees protected against them & said, Why, sir, they have as good a right to live as we—they are our fellow worms\". He wrote to his father in August 1837, \"The new rooms are above all praise, only they do want painting.\" The rooms that he rented were the same ones once used personally by George Washington while it was his headquarters, and he wrote to his friend George Washington Greene: \"I live in a great house which looks like an Italian villa: have two large rooms opening into each other. They were once Gen. Washington's chambers\".\n\nThe first major works that Longfellow composed in the home were \"Hyperion\", a prose romance likely inspired by his pursuit for the affections of Frances Appleton, and \"Voices of the Night\", a poetry collection which included \"A Psalm of Life\". Edward Wagenknecht notes that it was these early years at the Craigie House which marked \"the real beginning of Longfellow's literary career\". His landlady, Elizabeth Craigie, died in 1841.\n\nJoseph Emerson Worcester leased the property from Elizabeth Craigie's heirs after her death, and he rented the eastern half to Longfellow. Nathan Appleton purchased the house in 1843 for $10,000; Longfellow married his daughter Frances, so Appleton gave him the house as a wedding gift. Longfellow's friend George Washington Greene reminded them \"how noble an inheritance this is — where Washington dwelt in every room\". Longfellow was proud of the connection to Washington and purchased a bust of him in 1844, a copy of the sculpture by Jean-Antoine Houdon.\n\nLongfellow lived in the house for the next four decades, producing many of his most famous poems including \"Paul Revere's Ride\" and \"The Village Blacksmith\", as well as longer works such as \"Evangeline\", \"The Song of Hiawatha\", and \"The Courtship of Miles Standish\". He published 11 poetry collections, two novels, three epic poems, and several plays while living in this house, as well as a translation of Dante Alighieri's \"Divine Comedy\". He and his wife most often referred to it as \"Craigie House\" or \"Craigie Castle\".\n\nLongfellow oversaw the creation of a formal garden, and his wife oversaw decorating the interior. She purchased several items from Tiffany & Co. in New York, as well as $350 worth of carpets. They installed central heating in 1850 and gaslight in 1853. The family hosted famous artists, writers, politicians, and other luminaries who were attracted to Longfellow's hospitality and fame. Specific visitors included Charles Dickens, William Makepeace Thackeray, singer Jenny Lind, and actress Fanny Kemble. Emperor Dom Pedro II of Brazil also visited the house privately and requested the company of Longfellow, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Oliver Wendell Holmes, Sr., and James Russell Lowell. The couple also raised their three daughters and two sons in the home. They stayed in the home until their respective deaths but spent their summers after 1850 in Nahant, Massachusetts.\n\nLongfellow often wrote in his first-floor study, formerly Washington's office, surrounded by portraits of his friends, including charcoal portraits by Eastman Johnson of Charles Sumner, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Nathaniel Hawthorne, and Cornelius Conway Felton. He would write at the center table, at the desk, or in the armchair by the fire. His second wife Fanny died in the home in July 1861 after her dress accidentally caught fire. He attempted to quell the flames, managing to keep her face from burning, but he was burned on his own face and was scarred badly enough that he began growing a beard to hide it.\n\nLongfellow died in 1882 and his daughter Alice Longfellow was the last of his children to live in the home. In 1913, the surviving Longfellow children established the Longfellow House Trust to preserve the home as well as its view to the Charles River. Their intention was to preserve the home as a memorial to Longfellow and Washington and to showcase the property as a \"prime example of Georgian architecture\".\n\nIn 1962, the trust successfully lobbied for the house to become a national historic landmark. In 1972, the Trust donated the property to the National Park Service and it became the Longfellow National Historic Site and open to the public as a house museum. On display are many of the original nineteenth century furnishings, artwork, over 10,000 books owned by Longfellow, and the dining table around which many important visitors gathered. Everything on display was owned by the Longfellow family. The site was renamed to Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site on December 22, 2010, to ensure that the connection to Washington was not lost in the memory of the general public.\n\nThe site also possesses some 750,000 original documents relevant to the former occupants of the home. These archives are open to scholarly research by appointment.\n\nAcross the street from the Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site is the municipal park known as Longfellow Park. In the middle sits a memorial by sculptor Daniel Chester French dedicated in 1914. In addition to a bust of the poet, a carved bas-relief by Henry Bacon depicts the famous characters Miles Standish, Sandalphon, the village blacksmith, the Spanish student, Evangeline, and Hiawatha. The monument is similar to one French designed for the street that leads to Sunnyside, the former home of Washington Irving.\n\nThe original 1759 house was built in the Georgian architectural style. The pair of large pilasters that frame the central entry portal created two side wings, also framed by large pilasters. The house is influenced by the English architect James Gibbs, who published his \"Book of Architecture\" in 1728. Gibbs demonstrated a melding of the English Baroque style with the new Palladian movement. This facade configuration effectively expressed the rising prosperity and status of John Vassall's family background. In 1791, Andrew Craigie added the two side porches and the two-story back ell and also expanded the library into a twenty by thirty foot ballroom with its own entrance. During the Longfellow family's time in the home, very few structural changes were made. As Frances Longfellow wrote, \"we are full of plans & projects with no desire, however, to change a feature of the old countenance which Washington has rendered sacred\".\n\nThe Longfellow House–Washington's Headquarters National Historic Site is noted for its garden on the northeast end of the property. Henry Wadsworth Longfellow oversaw the creation of the original garden, shaped as a lyre, shortly after his wedding. In 1845, he began refurbishing the garden in earnest and imported trees from England with help from Asa Gray. These trees included \"a number of evergreens, among them a cedar of Lebanon and pines from the Himalayas, Norway, Switzerland and Oregon\". The lyre shape proved impractical and a new design was made with the help of a landscape architect named Richard Dolben in 1847. The new design was a square surrounding a circle that was cut into four tear-shaped garden beds outlined by trimmed boxwood. Mrs. Longfellow referred to the shape as a \"Persian rug\".\n\nAfter her father's death in 1882, Alice Longfellow commissioned two of America's first female landscape architects, Martha Brookes Hutcheson and Ellen Biddle Shipman, to redesign the formal garden in the Colonial Revival style. The garden was recently restored by an organization called Friends of the Longfellow House, which completed the final stage of its reconstruction, the historic pergola, in 2008.\n\nFor a time, Longfellow's home was one of the most photographed and most recognizable homes in the United States. In the early twentieth century Sears, Roebuck and Company sold scaled-down blueprints of the home so that anyone could build their own version of Longfellow's home. Several replicas of Longfellow's home appear throughout the United States. One replica, simply called Longfellow House, still exists in Minneapolis. Originally built by businessman Robert \"Fish\" Jones, it currently serves as an information center for the Minneapolis Park System and is on the Grand Rounds Scenic Byway. A full-scale replica of the house was built in Great Barrington, Massachusetts at the turn of the 20th century. This building is the only remaining full-scale replica of Longfellow's original home maintaining all the original historical character. There is also a replica in Aberdeen, South Dakota on Main St.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208229", "title": "Ken Howard", "text": "Ken Howard\n\nKenneth Joseph Howard Jr. (March 28, 1944 – March 23, 2016) was an American actor, best known for his roles as Thomas Jefferson in \"1776\" and as basketball coach and former Chicago Bulls player Ken Reeves in the television show \"The White Shadow\" (1978–1981). Howard won the Tony Award for Best Featured Actor in a Play in 1970 for his performance in \"Child's Play\", and later won the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actor in a Miniseries or a Movie for his work in \"Grey Gardens\" (2009).\n\nHoward was elected president of the actors' union, Screen Actors Guild (SAG), in September 2009 and reelected to a second term, in September 2011. He was the last president of the Screen Actors Guild and the first president of the newly formed union, SAG-AFTRA, after the Screen Actors Guild and another union, the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA), voted to merge in 2012. He was reelected in 2015.\n\nHoward was born in El Centro, California, the son of Martha Carey (née McDonald) and Kenneth Joseph Howard, a stockbroker, being the elder of their two sons. His younger brother, the late Don Howard, was also an actor and director. His approximately 6-foot 6-inch (1.98 m) stature earned him the nickname \"Stork\" as a high school student. He grew up in Manhasset, New York, on Long Island.\n\nThe nickname \"The White Shadow\" was given to him by the Long Island press in 1961, as, at age 17, Howard was the only white starter on the Manhasset High School varsity basketball team.\n\nA member of the National Honor Society in high school, Howard turned down several offers of basketball scholarships in favor of a more focused academic education. He graduated in 1966 from Amherst College, where he served as captain of the basketball team. He was also a member of the a cappella singing group, \"\"The Zumbyes\".\" He attended Yale School of Drama but left to make his Broadway debut before completing his master's degree.\n\nHoward began his career on Broadway in \"Promises, Promises\" with Jerry Orbach. In 1970, he won a Tony Award as Best Supporting or Featured Actor (Dramatic) for \"Child's Play.\" Howard later starred on Broadway as Thomas Jefferson in \"1776\" and reprised the role in the 1972 film. His other Broadway appearances included \"Seesaw\" in 1973 and \"The Norman Conquests\". Howard portrayed several U.S. presidents in the 1975 Broadway musical \"1600 Pennsylvania Avenue\" and appeared as Warren G. Harding in \"Camping with Henry and Tom\" in 1995. He appeared in legitimate theater in many cities, most recently as Tip O'Neill in a one-man show \"According to Tip\", at the New Repertory Theatre in Watertown, Massachusetts.\n\nOn television, Howard appeared as Ken Reeves, a Los Angeles high school basketball coach, in \"The White Shadow\", produced by Bruce Paltrow in 1978. Howard had the starring role in the 1973 TV series \"Adam's Rib\" opposite his good friend, and Paltrow's wife, Blythe Danner (who also played wife Martha to his Thomas Jefferson in the film version of \"1776\"). He starred in \"The Manhunter\", a crime drama that was part of CBS's lineup for the 1974–75 television season.\n\nHoward starred in the TV movie \"Father Damien\" in 1980 and won a Daytime Emmy Award in 1981 for his performance as the ideal father in the CBS afternoon special \"The Body Human: Facts for Boys\". Howard's additional credits included \"Sidney Sheldon's Rage of Angels, 1983\", the 2000 miniseries \"Perfect Murder, Perfect Town\", and the feature film \"\", both co-starring Kris Kristofferson. He played the title character in the 1984 American Playhouse production of Mark Twain's \"Pudd'nhead Wilson\", having earlier played Twain on \"Bonanza\". Later, he appeared as Garrett Boydston in \"Dynasty\" and its spin-off \"The Colbys\". In the early 1990s, he appeared on \"Murder, She Wrote\" and, from 2001–04, in \"Crossing Jordan\" as the title character's father. In 2007, he appeared in the Jimmy Smits series \"Cane\".\n\nHoward guest-starred on numerous television dramas. He was guest villain in \"Hart to Hart Returns\", a 1993 made-for-TV movie. He also appeared in season one of \"The West Wing\" as President Bartlet's first choice for US Supreme Court Justice in the episode \"The Short List\". His other dramatic guest roles included \"NYPD Blue\", \"The Practice\", \"Boston Legal\", \"Cold Case\", \"Dirty Sexy Money\", \"Eli Stone\", \"Brothers and Sisters\", \"\", \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\", \"Fairly Legal\", \"Crossing Jordan\",\"The Closer\", \"Blue Bloods\", \"The Golden Girls\", \"The Office\", and \"30 Rock\".\n\nHoward made his movie debut in 1970, in \"Tell Me That You Love Me, Junie Moon\", opposite Liza Minnelli. Numerous movie roles followed, in both dramatic and comedic roles, including: \"Such Good Friends\", \"1776\", \"The Strange Vengeance of Rosalie\", \"Independence\", \"Second Thoughts\", \"Oscar\" with Sylvester Stallone in 1991, \"Ulterior Motives\", \"Clear and Present Danger\" with Harrison Ford in 1994, \"The Net\" with Sandra Bullock in 1995, \"Tactical Assault\", \"\", and \"In Her Shoes\" in 2005.\n\nIn 2007, Howard appeared again with Stallone in \"Rambo\", and in George Clooney's \"Michael Clayton\". In 2010, he starred in \"The Numbers Game\" with Steven Bauer. He next appeared as Harlan F. Stone in Clint Eastwood's \"J. Edgar\".\n\nHe gave an acclaimed performance as Phelan Beale in the 2009 HBO film \"Grey Gardens\", playing opposite Jessica Lange, for which he received an Emmy Award. His last films were \"Better Living Through Chemistry\" (2013), \"A.C.O.D.\"(2013), \"The Judge\" (2014), \"The Wedding Ringer\" (2015) and the biographical comedy-drama film \"Joy\" (2015).\n\nKen Howard was elected the National President of The Screen Actors Guild on September 24, 2009.\n\nHoward was the author of the 2003 book \"Act Natural: How to Speak to Any Audience\", based on the drama courses he had taught at Harvard University. He was a popular reader for audiobooks.\n\nActors' union SAG-AFTRA announced his death on Wednesday, March 23, 2016, five days before his 72nd birthday, but gave no cause. \"The Hollywood Reporter\" noted that Howard \"was diagnosed with stage four prostate cancer in 2007 and was recently hospitalized with a case of shingles.\" However Howard died in Valencia, California, on March 23, 2016, of pneumonia complicated by shingles and prostate cancer.. He was the first and, so far, only Screen Actors Guild or SAG-AFTRA national president to die in the office.\n\nGeorge Clooney, in whose 2007 legal thriller \"Michael Clayton\", Howard appeared, remembered having met him for the first time, in 1983 at 20th Century Fox, as a fan of \"The White Shadow\".\n\nLinda Fetters Howard, stuntwoman, was his wife from 1992 to 2016. His previous wives include writer Margo Howard; (m. 1977–91), and American actress Louise Sorel (m. 1973–75).\n\n"}
{"id": "2208235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208235", "title": "The Oval (Belfast)", "text": "The Oval (Belfast)\n\nThe Oval is a football stadium in Belfast, Northern Ireland, which has been home to Glentoran F.C. since 1892. \n\nIn 1941 the stadium was severely damaged by aerial bombing during the Belfast blitz of World War II, and was unusable until 1949. A new main stand was constructed in 1953. The stadium was refurbished with a new stand built in 2000, but requires consistent maintenance to fulfill health and safety requirements and its total capacity is currently restricted to 6,050. The Oval has occasionally hosted the final of the Irish Cup as well as hosting the final of the County Antrim Shield and the Setanta Cup.\n\nFrom 1882 to 1886, Glentoran used Ormeau Park as their home ground. They moved to Westbourne in Ballymacarrett for six years until 1892. They then moved to The Oval. Initially it was on Dee Street, however in 1903 The Oval's pitch was rotated 90 degrees to its current location. During the early 20th century, the land on which The Oval stood was given in perpetuity to Glentoran by the Lord Mayor of Belfast, Daniel Dixon.\n\nDue to its proximity to the Belfast shipyards, the Oval suffered severe bomb damage during the Belfast blitz in 1941. Aerial bombing destroyed both grandstands, causing the loss of Glentoran's club assets, and also left a large crater in the pitch. As a result, the ground was flooded repeatedly by the Connswater River; the water pumps were insufficient to drain the pitch. The ground was out of use until 1949 when it was rebuilt by the Glentoran club along with supporters, who had jointly formed the 'Back to the Oval' committee. During their exile, the club played games at the ground of fellow Belfast club, Distillery - Grosvenor Park.\n\nIn 1953 the main grandstand was built.\nIn September 1995, Glentoran had an advertising board with \"JESUS\" in white letters on a black background erected at The Oval. This became known colloquially as the \"Jesus sign\". It remained at the ground until 2010 when Glentoran officials removed it, saying that they needed the space to sell advertising because of the club's serious financial troubles and because \"The sign had garnered no income for Glentoran for several years. It could be said that, in this case, God has not provided.\" \n\nIn 2000 The Oval received funding for the refurbishment of the railway stand, by bolting seats on to the old terracing to create a 1,600-person-capacity stand. It was funded by a small grant as part of the much bigger £2,000,000 investment in Northern Irish sports announced by the Northern Ireland sports minister Michael McGimpsey.\nOther than new floodlights and a small section of terracing refurbishment, the ground has received no public investment since. During this time, in excess of £50 million of public money has been spent on 15 other football grounds in Northern Ireland.\n\nIn 2005, after a match between Glentoran and rival team Linfield, Linfield fans broke down a gate in The Oval to access the pitch and throw objects at Glentoran fans in the main stand after both sets of fans had been throwing missiles at each other beforehand. Two people were charged with rioting.\n\nIn 2008, The Oval was the site of a protest by the Free Presbyterian Church of Ulster against a decision by the Irish Football Association to allow football matches to be played on Sundays, a first in Northern Ireland due to traditional sabbatarianism. The protesters were concerned that regular Sunday matches would attract churchgoers away from attending church. The protest was led by Reverend David McIlveen, who said \"Fundamentally, it is a desecration of God's day.\" In October 2010 the neo nazi British National Party (BNP), who were trying to gain electoral support, held a rally outside The Oval. Democratic Unionist Party (DUP) Member of the Legislative Assembly, Robin Newton described the BNP's presence outside The Oval as \"nauseous\". In July 2011, an incendiary bomb was discovered outside The Oval requiring evacuation of surrounding streets. In October 2011 during an Irish Cup match between Glentoran and Portadown, a Portadown fan threw fireworks onto the pitch, injuring Glentoran's assistant manager Pete Batey and goalkeeping coach Davy McClelland.\n\nIn the 21st century, with the continued lack of investment, the Oval has become comparatively dilapidated and has required constant temporary repairs to fulfill Health and Safety requirements for Glentoran to continue hosting its home matches there. In 2009, Glentoran's Irish Cup match against Limavady United was abandoned after the stadium's floodlight pylons started shaking in the high winds and the referee deemed it too dangerous for the match to continue. In 2012, after considering selling naming rights to The Oval, Glentoran unveiled plans to move the club to a new stadium in the Titanic Quarter of Belfast. The Oval was sold to property developers in March 2013 for £4 million. Glentoran's chairman suggested that the Oval might be redeveloped into social housing.\n\nThe Oval is located near the Port of Belfast, and Harland and Wolff's Samson and Goliath cranes are visible from inside the stadium. It is viewed as a historic ground by football fans because of its concrete terraces and steel fencing. This limits its capacity in UEFA-sanctioned matches to the 3,000 seats in the two main stands as terracing has not been permitted in UEFA matches since 1998.\n\nThe stadium's capacity is 26,556, but was estimated in 2010 by the Northern Ireland Assembly to have a safe capacity of 5,056 under safety legislation. However, since 2011, the safe capacity permitted by Health and Safety authorities is 5,300; before 2010 the stadium could hold more than 8,000. Linfield's manager David Jeffrey criticised these restrictions and said that they were \"murdering local football.\" The main stand holds 2,720 and the Railway stand holds 2,070. The Oval's record attendance is 55,000 for a European Cup Winners Cup match against Rangers on 27 September 1966.\n\nThe design of the main stand is very similar to the one at Springfield Park, former home of Wigan Athletic. This was also built in 1953.\n\nIn previous years, the Oval was used to host the final of the Irish Cup as one of Northern Ireland's biggest stadiums along with Windsor Park, with the location of the final often being decided on a coin toss. During the 1985 Irish Cup final, Glentoran supporters released a cockerel and a pig that had been painted blue onto the pitch to antagonize Linfield supporters. The Oval was used to host the final of the County Antrim Shield in 2012. The Oval has also been used to host the Setanta Cup final. It hosted the 2012 final between Belfast's Crusaders representing the IFA Premiership, and Derry City, representing the League of Ireland.\nThe 2015 Irish Cup Final between Glentoran and Portadown was played at The Oval.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208240", "title": "Michael Rasmussen (cyclist)", "text": "Michael Rasmussen (cyclist)\n\nMichael Rasmussen (born 1 June 1974) is a retired Danish professional cyclist who competed in road racing and mountain biking. His most notable victories include four stages of the Tour de France, one stage of the Vuelta a España and a win on the Italian classic Giro dell'Emilia in 2002. He also won the best climber classification in the 2005 and 2006 Tour de France.\n\nSpecializing in climbing, Rasmussen showed a propensity for attempting spectacular wins in mountain stages in which he broke away from the peloton early and rode alone for most of the stage. Michael Rasmussen was known for his care for detail when considering weight. With a low weight (60 kg) he was usually one of the lightest riders in his class.\n\nIn the 2007 Tour de France, Rasmussen, while wearing the yellow jersey and well on his way to winning the Tour, had his contract terminated by his team and was removed from the Tour. He served a two-year ban from July 2007 to July 2009 for lying about his whereabouts. At a press conference on 31 January 2013, Rasmussen admitted that he had used performance-enhancing drugs and methods, including EPO, growth hormones, insulin, testosterone, DHEA, IGF-1, Oxyglobin, cortisone and blood doping, for most of his professional career.\n\nRasmussen began his career as a mountain biker, and he won the Mountain Bike World Championships in 1999 before becoming a stagiaire with the professional cycling team in 2001. There he secured a one-year contract for 2002, and following a string of good results in August and September, including his first professional win, he switched from CSC-Tiscali to in 2003. After being sacked by Rabobank in the 2007 Tour de France, Rasmussen got a contract offer from . The team's manager then decided that the move would be too expensive and thus Rasmussen was without contract.\n\nHis first Tour de France was in 2004, in which he failed to get any stage wins but was third in the mountains classification, which was won by Richard Virenque. Rasmussen then agreed with his team that he could train alone and focus on the Tour de France for 2005.\n\nAt the 2005 Tour de France his training paid off when he took the polka dot jersey as leader of the mountains classification on stage eight. The next day he won stage nine after riding alone for three-quarters of the course; he had broken away after 3 km and stayed clear to the finish 168 km later. He led over the first category 1 climb, the Ballon d'Alsace. In the penultimate stage (Stage 20), an individual time trial, he lost his third place after a fall at 4 km, then two bike changes, two wheel changes and a crash into a ditch. After his first fall, he lost confidence and his ability to descend at speed, said by Rabobank's sports director Erik Breukink. Rasmussen finished 77th that day and dropped from 3rd to 7th on the GC. However he needed only to finish the final stage the next day to assure his status as King of the Mountains.\n\nRasmussen rode the next day partially alone, saying he needed to clear his mind after the day before. After becoming king of the mountains, Rasmussen wore not only the polka dot jersey, but polka dot helmet, shorts, gloves, and socks. For the final stage, he rode a polka dot bike made by Ernesto Colnago, founder of the Colnago company.\n\nIn the 2006 Tour de France, he finished well overall but he was not team leader; that honour went to the Russian, Denis Menchov. Rasmussen won the mountains classification for the second year and claimed stage 16 in the process. On Stage 16 he broke away after 4 km and took the Souvenir Henri Desgrange on the Col du Galibier (2645 m), winning 5000 euros. He led over all the climbs and won stage 16 by more than a minute on Carlos Sastre of . In Paris he wore the polka dot jersey as leader of the mountains classification while holding his newly born child, who was in a polka-dot shirt and cap.\n\nIn the 2007 Tour de France he won the 8th stage from Le Grand-Bornand to Tignes, taking the lead in the general classification and the mountains classification. On 25 July, he held a 3:10 lead on Alberto Contador, who was in second place for the yellow jersey. With four stages remaining, this made him favourite for the yellow jersey in Paris. That evening however, he was withdrawn from the race and fired by his team Rabobank for \"violating internal rules\". Davide Cassani, an Italian retired professional rider, reported that he had seen Rasmussen in Italy in June 2007, a time when Rasmussen claimed to have been training in Mexico. The accusations were denied.\n\nRasmussen was the center of controversy while wearing the yellow jersey in the 2007 Tour de France, when it was announced that he had been suspended from the Danish national cycling team at UCI World Championships and Olympic Games following missed doping controls. Rasmussen failed to report his whereabouts for a three-week training session in Mexico and was unavailable for testing during that period; for that he received a recorded warning from the UCI. Counting these missed tests together, the Danish cycling union decided to ban Rasmussen. Rasmussen said: \"I do admit that I've committed an administrative error. I was informed of this at the Danish championship two and a half weeks ago, so it's no news... It might be a surprise that it comes out right now.\" The timing of the announcement led to speculation by Patrice Clerc, then chief of the Amaury Sport Organisation, which organises the Tour de France, that the UCI had leaked the news in the middle of the Tour to damage it, as part of a dispute between the two organisations over the running of the UCI ProTour. This was rejected by the UCI president Pat McQuaid, who said the timing was the choice of the Danish cycling union.\n\nAccording to a multiple sourced VeloNews article published on 20 July 2007, mountain bike racer Whitney Richards accused Rasmussen of trying to get him to transport a box, which Rasmussen had told Richards contained his favourite cycling shoes, to his training base in Italy in early 2002. The box turned out to contain packets of Hemopure, a bovine-hemoglobin-based blood substitute which is not currently approved for human use outside South Africa and did not become commercially available there until January 2006, and which might potentially have been used in a doping program. At the time there was no screening test for Hemopure; it is, however, banned by the WADA. Richards said he destroyed the Hemopure, at which Rasmussen is said to have grown angry and said to Richards \"Have you any idea how much that shit cost?\"\n\nA second journalist confirmed that Richards had related the same story to him over two years ago, off the record, and claims that the incident is the one described in the epilogue of journalist David Walsh's recent book \"From Lance to Landis\". Rasmussen had declined to comment on the story, saying only, \"I cannot confirm any of that.\"\n\nOn 25 July 2007, Rasmussen won stage 16 of the 2007 Tour de France. He had led the general classification (overall lead) since winning Stage 8, and with a lead of over three minutes over second-place Alberto Contador, he was all but assured of winning. However, hours after his win, Rabobank abruptly fired him and removed him from the race. Previously, an Italian cycling commentator for RAI and former professional road bicycle racer, Davide Cassani, telling a story about Rasmussen's intense preparations for the Tour, stated he had seen Rasmussen in the Italian Dolomites on 13 June 2007, cycling in the rain. According to the schedule Rasmussen submitted to the UCI, he should have been in Mexico at that time. When confronted with this accusation, according to initial press reports, Rasmussen admitted the facts to his team leader, which resulted in Rasmussen's removal from the team and the Tour. Rasmussen himself later first denied that he had admitted any such thing, stating that Rabobank manager Theo de Rooij \"was a desperate man on the verge of a nervous breakdown,\" but later admitted lying about his whereabouts. Two days later on 27 July it was reported, that Theo de Rooij had resigned, effective once the tour was over. Rasmussen's in-laws later confirmed to the Danish newspaper BT that he had visited them in Mexico, but that they did not know where exactly he had been on 13 and 14 June 2007. Rabobank backed the decision to withdraw Rasmussen but reconfirmed its commitment as a sponsor in cycling, at least at the local level.\n\nOn 17 December 2007, the Dutch law firm BrantjesVeerman confirmed Rasmussen had hired it to fight his dismissal from Rabobank.\n\nOn 1 July 2008 the Monaco Cycling Federation, which holds Rasmussen's racing license, announced that he was banned from the sport for two years from his exclusion from the Tour de France; the ban ended on 25 July 2009. Rasmussen appealed the ban to the Court of Arbitration for Sport, which upheld the ban on 22 January 2009.\n\nRasmussen's suspension expired on 25 July 2009, and he took part in the Designa Grand Prix in Kjellerup, Denmark two days later, finishing in second place. Later that season, he won the opening stage, a time trial, and was race leader for three days, in the Mexico's Vuelta a Chihuahua, as a member of Team Tecos Trek. The following season, he signed for the Italian Continental ranked team, Miche Silver Cross.\n\nOn 30 July 2010 Michael Rasmussen got a personal sponsor in Christina Design London. On 9 December 2010, Rasmussen and Christina Design owner Christina Hembo presented their new team . Hembo received a UCI Continental licence and announced the goal to become a UCI Pro Tour team by 2016.\n\nOn 31 January 2013, he admitted to the use of performance-enhancing drugs from 1998 to 2010 during a press conference. He stated that he used EPO, growth hormone, testosterone, DHEA, insulin, IGF-1, cortisone and did blood transfusions. He also stated that his cycling career was over and that he wanted to cooperate fully with the Danish anti-doping institutions. The Danish Authorities stated that they would be looking to enforce a two-year ban, reduced from the normal eight-year ban in exchange for revealing what he knew about other illegal doping activities.\n\nIn September 2013 it was confirmed by Danmarks Idræts-Forbund (DIF) that he would receive a 2-year ban from 8 February 2013 to 7 February 2015 and would be stripped of results from January 2005 to March 2010. This decision has yet to be ratified by Danish Anti Doping (ADD) or the UCI.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208243", "title": "Wayne Cashman", "text": "Wayne Cashman\n\nWayne Cashman (born June 24, 1945) is a Canadian former professional ice hockey player and a former coach. He played seventeen seasons for the Boston Bruins of the National Hockey League (NHL) and helped them win the Stanley Cup twice.\n\nCashman played junior hockey in the OHA with the Oshawa Generals; one of his teammates was Bobby Orr. He played parts of three seasons in the minor leagues for the Oklahoma City Blazers and the Hershey Bears before making the Bruins' squad for good in 1969.\n\nCashman played his entire NHL career with the Boston Bruins (1964–65, 1967–83). His jersey number was 12. He was a hard-grinding left winger on the era's most formidable forward line with centre Phil Esposito and right wing Ken Hodge. His role was to get into the corners and battle for loose pucks, and feed them to Esposito or Hodge. He was also a tenacious forechecker and served as an enforcer to protect Esposito and Orr.\n\nCashman was a member of Stanley Cup-winning teams in 1970 and 1972, and scored twice in the deciding game of the latter Finals against the New York Rangers. He scored at least 20 goals per season eight times in his career, doing so in four straight seasons when he also incurred 100 or more penalty minutes. His best season was in 1974, when he finished fourth in the league in points, played in the All-Star Game, and was named to the NHL Second All-Star team. In 1972 he played for Team Canada in the Summit Series.\n\nHe served as the captain of the Bruins from 1978 to 1983. When he retired after the Bruins were eliminated from the playoffs in 1983, he was the last active player from the NHL's Original Six era, just beating out Serge Savard, whose team was eliminated in an earlier playoff round.\n\nAfter his retirement as a player, Cashman served in several coaching positions, including five seasons as an assistant coach for the New York Rangers and four for the Tampa Bay Lightning as an assistant coach. He was appointed head coach of the Philadelphia Flyers for the 1997-98 season and held that post for 61 games until he was replaced by Roger Neilson; he served thereafter as the team's assistant coach. He was also on the coaching staff of Team Canada in the 1998 Olympics in Nagano, Japan, as an assistant to Marc Crawford. He was an assistant coach with the Bruins from 2001 until 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208245", "title": "Mighty Force Records", "text": "Mighty Force Records\n\nMighty Force Records was a record shop and techno label based in Exeter, Devon, South West England. It was founded by ex-punk, free festival activist (having briefly worked with the Stonehenge Free Festival Campaign in 1983) and warehouse party organiser Mark Darby and his partner, journalist Jess Shortis, after they had visited visiting various club-based events in Plymouth and realised there was no focal point for the burgeoning rave scene in Somerset, Devon and Cornwall.\n\nThe store soon became a regular stop-off point for many internationally known DJs including, Sasha, Andrew Weatherall, Lee Burridge, Jon DaSilva and Felix Buxton later of Basement Jaxx and was the catalyst for the fledgling West Country techno movement.\n\nThe record label is best known for releasing Analogue Bubblebath by the Aphex Twin, and works of Tom Middleton later of Global Communication, Jedi Knights, Cosmos and AMBA. Later releases included Middleton's own \"My Splendid Idea\" and the hard to find Fog City EP by Darby and Matthew Herbert.\n\nMiddleton, his Global Communication and Jedi Knights partner Mark Pritchard and Herbert met through the patronage of the Mighty Force store. All three also DJ'ed regularly at the weekly promotional club night run by the label along with the likes of Weatherall, Judge Jules and ex-Haçienda resident Graeme Park. Another regular DJ at these events was Dominic Jacobson then studying at Exeter University, later a member of Phil Asher's Restless Soul crew and who now produces deep jazz inflected house under the name Modaji and Harvey Lindo. Middleton and Jacobson were often to be seen working behind the shop counter.\n\nAlthough the store ceased to trade in 1995, the label relocated to London and continued to release music by deep house artists such as Peach Palf and the Classic / Music For Freaks recording artists, Luke Solomon and Justin Harris under the alias Robotic Movement until 1998. Label design was by Ben Drury, known for his innovative work with James Lavelle's Mo' Wax label and collaborations with former graffiti artist and The Clash's sometime sleeve designer, Futura 2000.\n\nOther releases included a series of white label breakbeat EPs under the name of Old Skool Flava, nominally produced by Darby and \"H\" Warren, label manager of Global Communication's now defunct Universal Language Productions imprint.\n\nDarby's connections with the early 1980s festival scene and involvement in organising free acid house parties led to an informal partnership between a DJ and sound system collective based around the shop and Nottingham's DiY Sound System, with whom they collaborated to stage free parties throughout the South West during the early to mid 1990s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208257", "title": "Anarkali", "text": "Anarkali\n\nAnarkali () (pomegranate blossom), born as Sharif un-Nissa, and also known as Nadira Begum, was a courtesan from Lahore (in modern-day Pakistan). According to one story, Anarkali had an illicit relationship with the Crown Prince Jahangir and the Mughal Emperor Akbar had her enclosed in a wall where she died. There is no historic proof of Anarakali's existence although her character often appears in movies, books and fictionalized versions of history.\n\nAnarkali was first mentioned in the journal of an English tourist and trader, William Finch, after he visited the Mughal Empire on 24 August 1608. The story was also written by Indian writer Abdul Halim Sharar and on the first page of his book, he clearly mentions it to be a work of fiction. Nevertheless, Anarkali's story has been adapted into literature, art and cinema.\n\nShe is depicted in the Bollywood movie, Mughal-e-Azam, which is set during the Mughal period. According to legend, Anarkali was ordered to be buried alive between two walls by Mughal Emperor Akbar for having an illicit relationship with the Crown-Prince Salim, later to become Mughal Emperor Jahangir.\n\nThere is disagreement among scholars concerning the authenticity of Anarkali's story. There are many supporting and opposing views such as the ones mentioned below.\n\nThe earliest Western stories about the love affair between Salim and Anarkali were written by two British travellers, William Finch and Edward Terry. William Finch reached Lahore in February 1611 (only 11 years after the supposed death of Anarkali), to sell indigo he had purchased at Bayana on behalf of the East India Company. His account, written in early 17th-century English, gives the following information.\n\nAnarkali had an affair with Prince Salim (Jahangir). Upon notice of the affair, King Akbar ordered her to be enclosed within a wall of his palace, where she died. The King Jahangir, as a token of his love, ordered a magnificent tomb of stone to be built in the midst of a walled four-square garden surrounded by a gate. The body of the tomb, the emperor willed to be wrought in gold.\n\nEdward Terry, who visited a few years after William Finch, wrote that Akbar had threatened to disinherit Jahangir for his liaison with Anarkali, the emperor's most beloved wife. But on his death-bed, Akbar repealed it.\n\nBasing his analysis on the above two accounts, Abraham Eraly, the author of \"The Last Spring: The Lives and Times of the Great Mughals\", suspects that there \"seems to have been an oedipal conflict between Akbar and Salim.\" He also considers it probable that the legendary Anarkali was none other than the mother of Prince Daniyal. \n\nEraly supports his hypothesis by quoting an incident recorded by Abul Fazl, Akbar's court-historian. According to the historian, Salim was beaten up one evening by guards of Akbar's royal harem. The story goes that a mad man wandered into Akbar's harem because of the carelessness of the guards. Abul Fazl writes that Salim caught the man but was himself mistaken for the intruder. The emperor arrived upon the scene and was about to strike with his sword when he recognised Salim. It is likely that the intruder was none other than Prince Salim and that the story of the mad man was concocted to put a veil on the prince's indecency.\n\nBut the accounts of the British travellers, and consequently the presumption of Eraly, is unlikely in light of the fact that Prince Daniyal's mother died in 1596, which does not match the dates inscribed on the sarcophagus.\n\nAnother scholar, Muhammed Baqir, the author of \"Lahore Past and Present\" opines that Anarkali was originally the name of the garden in which the tomb was situated. However, with the passage of time, the tomb itself came to be named as that of Anarkali's. This garden is mentioned by Dara Shikoh, the grandson of Jahangir, in his work, \"Sakinat al-Auliya\", as one of the places where the saint, Mian Mir, used to sit. Dara also mentions the existence of a tomb in the garden but he does not give it any name.\n\nMuhammed Baqir believes that the so-called tomb of Anarkali actually belonged to a lady named or entitled Sahib-i Jamal, another wife of Salim, the mother of the prince's second son, Sultan Parvez, and a daughter of the noble Zain Khan Koka. This conclusion is also partially faulty. The mother of Sultan Parviz was not a daughter of Zain Khan Koka but the daughter of Khawaja Hasan, the paternal uncle of Zain Khan. Of course, subsequently, the daughter of Zain Khan was also married to Salim on 18 June 1596.\n\nIt is recorded in Akbar Nama that Jahangir \"became violently enamoured of the daughter of Zain Khan Koka. H.M. (Akbar) was displeased at the impropriety, but he saw that his heart was immoderately affected, he, of necessity, gave his consent.\" The translator of Akbar Nama, H. Beveridge, opines that Akbar objected to the marriage, because the Prince was already married \"to Zain Khan’s niece\" (actually the daughter of paternal uncle of Zain Khan, and hence his sister). Akbar objected to marrying near relations. But we do not know the date of death of either of the two wives of Jahangir.\n\nNoted art historian R. Nath argues that Jahangir had no wife on record bearing the name or title Anarkali to whom the emperor could have built a tomb and dedicated a couplet with a suffix \"Majnun\". He writes: \"[it is] absolutely improbable that the grand Mughal emperor would address his married wife as \"yar\", designate himself as \"majnun\" and aspire to see her face once again. Had he not seen her enough? Obviously she was not his married wife but only his beloved, to whom he would take the liberty to be romantic and a little poetic too, and it appears to be a case of an unsuccessful romance of a disappointed lover... The prince could not save her, though it is on record that he was so unhappy with his father in this year 1599 that he defied his orders and revolted. It may be recalled that Mehrunissa (later Nurjahan Begum) was also married to Sher Afgan the same year and the young Prince was so dejected and disturbed on the failure of his two romances and annihilation of his tender feelings of love that he went as far as to defy Akbar.\" \n\nAlthough there are many views over the death of Anarkali, the most prominent are:\n\n1. Anarkali or \"Sharrafunnisa\", although cemented behind the wall by the order of Akbar, was released by the emperor on the request of Anarkali's mother, \"Jillo Bai\". Emperor Akbar had promised Anarkali's mother one wish in her life. Thereby, Anarkali escaped through a secret route to the outskirts of Delhi and then went to Lahore and lived there until her death.\n\nThere exists a tomb of Anarkali in Lahore. It was in Lahore that Prince Salim set eyes upon Anarkali (\"Pomegranate Blossom\"). She was Emperor Akbar's favorite dancing girl and, legend has it, that he was furious when he learned of her affair with the prince. As punishment, he had Anarkali entombed outside the fort. Whether this story is fact or fiction, a modest tomb does stand in Lahore which is believed to have been built by the lovesick prince in 1615. The gravestone in the tomb for Anarkali bears a tragic inscription:\n<poem>\nCould I behold the face of my beloved once more,\nI would thank God until the day of resurrection.</poem>\n\nThe tomb was converted into a church during British occupation and now serves as an archive (with a collection of old prints) within the compound of the Government Record Office.\nOn the lower Mall Road, inside the grounds of the Punjab Secretariat, lies the tomb of Anarkali. The tomb is accessible to the public.\n\n2. The second view is that Anarkali, after the death of Akbar, was recalled by Salim (Jahangir) after which they married. She was given a new identity, Nur Jahan.\n\nHer father came to the sub-continent during the time of the Mughal emperor, Akbar, and entered into his service. He rose rapidly through the ranks on merit. In 1607, Nur Jahan was brought to the court as a royal ward. She was beautiful and highly intelligent and attracted Jahangir's attention.\n\nA good deal of fiction has gathered around this remarkable woman, obscuring her personality and role in the social and political life of the period. It is wrongly and widely believed that Jahangir murdered Sher Afghan, Nur Jahan's first husband, because he wanted to marry Nur Jahan. In reality, Sher Afghan died in a skirmish with Jahangir's foster brother, Qutbuddin Koka, in 1607. The conqueror of the world, Jahangir, fell in love with Nur Jahan and married her in 1611. He gave her the title of Nur Mehal, \"Light of the Palace\", and later, Nur Jahan, \"Light of the World\".\n\nAfter marriage, Nur Jahan won Jahangir's complete confidence. She carefully attended to the affairs of the state. Her father and brother became ministers and together they dominated the courts. A number of historians believe that Nur Jahan became the real power behind the throne and practically the sovereign of the Mughal Empire. For many years she wielded the imperial powers. She even gave audiences at her palace and her name was placed on the coinage.\n\nThe decision to marry her daughter, Ladli Begum (from her first husband), to Shah Jahan's younger brother, Shahryar, caused Shah Jahan's rebellion. There are rumors that she had previously formed a junta supporting Shah Jahan's right to the throne along with her father Ghias Beg and her brother Abul Hasan (later Asaf Khan), who was also Shah Jahan's father-in-law. However, when Shah Jahan refused to marry Ladli Begum in spite of Nur Jahan's command, she married her daughter off to Shahryar, who was more compliant than his brother. Emperor Jahangir was captured by rebels in 1626 while he was on his way to Kashmir. Nur Jahan intervened to get her husband released. Jahangir was rescued but died on 28 October 1627.\n\nNur Jehan had a magnificent tomb erected over the grave of her husband. She retired from the world and lived a quiet and lonely life for 16 years after the death of Jahangir. She died in 1645 and is buried beside Jahangir at Shahdra, Lahore.\n\nAnarkali has been the subject of a number of Indian, Bangladeshi and Pakistani books, plays and films. The earliest and most celebrated historical play about her, \"Anarkali\", was written by Imtiaz Ali Taj in Urdu and performed in 1922. The play was made into a film, \"Loves of a Mughal Prince\", released in India in 1928 and starred Taj as Akbar. Bina Rai portrayed Anarkali in \"Anarkali\", a 1953 Indian film. In Pakistan, another film, also entitled \"Anarkali\", was released in 1958 with Noor Jehan in the lead role. Later, in 1960, K. Asif's landmark film \"Mughal-e-Azam\" was released in India with actress Madhubala in the role of Anarkali and Dilip Kumar as Prince Salim. In 1955, Akkineni Nageswara Rao and Anjali Devi starred in Anarkali[ Anarkali (1955 film)]. In 1979, Telugu superstar N.T.Rama Rao directed and acted in the film Akbar Salim Anarkali, featuring himself as Akbar, Nandamuri Balakrishna as Salim and Deepa as Anarkali. Iman Ali portrayed Anarkali in Shoaib Mansoor's short music video series on the theme \"Ishq\" (love) in 2003. In the 2013 Ekta Kapoor's TV Series \"Jodha Akbar\", she was portrayed by Heena Parmar while Saniya Touqeer played young Anarkali.\n\nA daily soap was aired on Colors TV titled \"Dastan-e-Mohabbat...Salim Anarkali\", where Prince Salim is enacted by Shaheer Sheikh and his beloved Anarkali by Sonarika Bhadoria.\n\n\nhttps://sites.ualberta.ca/~rnoor/tomb_anarkali.html\n"}
{"id": "2208258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208258", "title": "Phase IV", "text": "Phase IV\n\nPhase IV is a 1974 science-fiction horror film. The only feature-length film directed by graphic designer and filmmaker Saul Bass, it stars Michael Murphy, Nigel Davenport and Lynne Frederick.\n\nThe interiors of the film were shot at Pinewood Studios in England and the exterior locations were shot in Kenya, though the film is set in the Arizona desert in the United States. It was produced by Alced Productions and Paramount Pictures.\n\nThe film was a box office disappointment and as a result, this was the only feature film directed by Bass. It has since gained a cult following due to TV airings beginning in 1975 and also being shown on \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\" during the KTMA era.\n\nA novelization of the script, written by Barry N. Malzberg, was published as \"Phase IV\" in November 1973.\n\nAfter a spectacular but mysterious cosmic event, ants undergo rapid evolution and develop a cross-species hive mind and build strange towers and geometrically perfect designs in the desert. Except for one family, the local human population flees the strangely acting ants. Scientists James Lesko and Ernest Hubbs set up a computerized lab in a sealed dome located in an area of significant ant activity in Arizona. The ant colony and the scientific team fight each other, though the ants are the more effective aggressors.\n\nThe narrative uses the scientific team as the main protagonists, but there are also ant protagonists going about their duties in the colony. The ants immunize themselves to the humans' chemical weapons and soon infiltrate their lab. Teams of ants penetrate the computers of the lab and short them out. After Lesko decodes an ant message, Kendra Eldrige (a young woman who has taken refuge with the scientists), becomes convinced that her actions have enraged the ants. Seeking to save the two scientists, she abandons the lab and apparently sacrifices herself.\n\nHubbs and Lesko begin to have different plans for dealing with the ants. While Lesko thinks he can communicate with the ants by means of messages written in mathematics, Hubbs plans to wipe out a hill he believes to be the ants' central hive. Delirious from a venomous ant sting, Hubbs can barely get his boots on but is determined to attack the hive and kill the ant queen. Instead, Hubbs literally falls into a trap – a deep pit that the ants fill with earth. Helpless to save Hubbs and convinced that the ants will soon move into desert areas where their growth will exceed man's ability to control them, Lesko chooses to follow Hubbs's plan. He sets out to the hive with a canister of poison. Descending into the hive, Lesko hunts for the queen but instead finds Kendra reaching out from under the sand. The two embrace and Lesko realizes that far from destroying the human race, the ants' plan is to adapt the human race and make them a part of the ants' world. In voice-over, Lesko states that he does not know what plans the ants have, but he is awaiting instruction.\n\n\nKen Middleham, the wildlife photographer who shot the insect sequences for \"Phase IV\", also shot the insect sequences for the documentary \"The Hellstrom Chronicle\". Both feature extensive use of close-up photography of insects.\n\nDuring production, Saul Bass was concerned with 20 year old Lynne Frederick’s figure since she was playing a 16 year old. She was forced to wear a specially designed and painful iron-clad corset to bind her breasts (to make her appear younger) throughout production. Bass also attempted to persuade Frederick to restrict her diet to chicken broth and black coffee.\n\nAccording to the book \"Future Tense\", \"Bass originally filmed a spectacular, surreal montage lasting four minutes, showing what life would be like on the 'new' Earth, but this was cut by the distributor.\" The montage was intended to suggest that the two surviving characters were altered by the ants' creation of the next step in evolution for humanity and insects. Shots from the original montage sequence appear in the theatrical trailer, which was likely prepared before cuts were made to the film.\n\nIn early 2012, a faded print of the original ending sequence was found in the Saul Bass Collection at the Academy Film Archive in a preview version of the film, which was originally shown to test audiences in 1973. In June 2012, this excerpt was screened to the public in Los Angeles at the Cinefamily cinematheque following a showing of the theatrical version. The Academy Film Archive was able to find the original film elements for the montage, a set of separation masters, in Paramount Studio's archives. The archive staff recombined the separations, color-timed them for presentation, and had them digitally scanned. This recovered montage ending, along with a brand new 35mm print of the theatrical version, premiered at the Alamo Drafthouse in Austin, Texas, as a part of a full day of films by Saul Bass in December 2012, before being shown at select art-house theaters in other cities.\n\nThe novelization of Mayo Simon's screenplay, written by Barry N. Malzberg, gives a hint of the final version by Bass, as it uses the uncut version of Simon's script.\n\nThe film was released on VHS by Paramount Pictures, the studio that made the movie. A DVD was released by Legend Films in 2008, and a Blu-ray was released by Olive Films in 2015. All of these releases are barebones versions and do not include any special features, such as the original theatrical trailer or the scenes cut from the original version of the film. \n\nThe long-rumored alternate ending of the film has remained out of distribution until discovered and restored by the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences’ Academy Film Archive.   Now available on iTunes Extras in celebration of the 45th Anniversary. \nBrian Gascoigne was the chief composer, and Stomu Yamashta was responsible for the music in the final montage sequence, which was cut from the theatrical release. David Vorhaus and Desmond Briscoe composed the electronic music. Waxwork Records released the soundtrack on vinyl in March 2015. It does not include the cut final sequence montage music by Stomu Yamashta. It was the first release of the soundtrack in any format.\n\nUpon its initial theatrical release, the film had mixed reviews. In a generally positive review, Jay Cocks of \"Time\" saw the film as \"good, eerie entertainment, with interludes of such haunted visual intensity that it becomes, at its best, a nightmare incarnate\". In a negative review, \"Variety\" wrote that this ecological monster film \"didn't get the bugs worked out before release\". \"Time Out London\" wrote that the special effects take priority over the ideas. A. H. Weiler of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"For all of its good, scientific and human intentions, 'Phase IV' cries for a Phase V of fuller explanations.\"\nThe review aggregation website Rotten Tomatoes gave the film 56% based on 16 reviews with an average rating of 6/10. Ignatiy Vishnevetsky of \"The A.V. Club\" described it as \"designed more than directed, and edited around principles of color and line, rather than around performance or plot\". Bill Gibron of PopMatters rated it 7/10 stars and wrote that \"for every hackneyed hole-punch moment there’s an engaging scope enhanced by the film’s visual wonders\". David Cornelius of DVD Talk rated it 4.5/5 stars and wrote, \"Watch it late at night with the lights out, and you'll get plenty freaked.\"\n\n\"Phase IV\" won the 1975 Grand Prix Award at the International Festival of Science Fiction Films in Trieste, Italy. Over time, the film has gained a cult following.\n\nThis is the first film to depict a geometric crop circle, in this case, created by super-intelligent ants. The film predates by two years the first modern reports of crop circles in the United Kingdom, and it has been cited as a possible inspiration or influence on the pranksters who started this phenomenon.\n\nThe film has been a significant influence on a recent generation of science fiction film directors and other visual media artists. In an interview, the Argentine director Nicolas Goldbart described \"Phase IV\" as having had a profound cinematic influence on him. In his science fiction film \"Phase 7\", \"Phase IV\" is playing on a television in the apartment of the protagonists. The writer/director Panos Cosmatos described \"Phase IV\" as having been a very significant influence on the look and feel of his science fiction film \"Beyond the Black Rainbow\".\n\nThe music video by Radical Friend for Yeasayer’s 2009 song Ambling Alp is an homage to \"Phase IV\", and the video's images are inspired by some of the visual elements of the film.\n\nIn January 1989, \"Phase IV\" was featured on one of the very early episodes of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208269", "title": "Goose Island Brewery", "text": "Goose Island Brewery\n\nGoose Island Beer Company is a brewery in Chicago, Illinois, that began as a single brewpub opened in 1988 in Lincoln Park, Chicago, and named after a nearby island. The larger production brewery opened in 1995, and a second brewpub, in Wrigleyville, in 1999.\n\nTheir beers are distributed across the United States, and the United Kingdom after a stake of the company was sold to Widmer Brothers Brewery in 2006, and the brewery was able to expand into different markets. In 2011, Goose Island was sold to Anheuser-Busch InBev. Greg Hall stepped down as brewmaster with the AB InBev purchase in 2011; Brett Porter was hired as the new brewmaster.\n\nJohn and Greg Hall were originally influenced by the English brewing tradition.\n\nGoose Island has one brewpub located on Clybourn Ave which serves brunch, lunch, and dinner next to their assortment of beers. The brewpub was sold to Anheuser Busch in 2016, but it still remains a subsidiary of the Fulton Street brewery. The Clybourn Avenue Brewpub closed for renovation in January 2017; it reopened in October 2017, slightly renamed to Goose Island Brewhouse. The Wrigleyville brewpub closed in 2015 to make way for further development of the Wrigleyville area.\n\nThe brewery on Fulton Street features a tap room and offers tours of the facility.\n\nGoose Island currently operates different concept locations across the globe, with brewpubs in Toronto, São Paulo, Seoul and Shanghai; a pub in Monterrey, Mexico; Philadelphia and a vintage ale house in Balham, London. The vintage ale house in Balham has since closed in the spring of 2018 to make way for another brewpub in the Shoreditch area of London.\n\nGoose Island produces a number of beers that are available year-round, as well as some beers that are seasonal. At different times in the past, the brewery has produced dozens of other beers.\n\nIn November 2008, Goose Island made news when its small batch of Bourbon County Stout became available for the first time in Western states.\n\nWhile Goose Island products were originally only available in the Chicago area, their products are now available in all 50 states.\n\nFor several years, the WIT Beverage Company licensed the Goose Island name for a craft soda line. The branding was changed to WBC Craft Sodas following the expiration of the Goose Island licensing in 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208275", "title": "Rashaan Salaam", "text": "Rashaan Salaam\n\nRashaan Iman Salaam (October 8, 1974 – December 5, 2016) was an American college and professional football player who was a running back in the National Football League (NFL) for four seasons during the 1990s. Salaam played college football for the University of Colorado and won the 1994 Heisman Trophy. He was picked by the Chicago Bears in the first round of the 1995 NFL Draft, and played professionally for the Bears and Cleveland Browns of the NFL. Salaam died by suicide on December 5, 2016.\n\nSalaam was born in San Diego, California, the son of former Cincinnati Bengals running back Teddy Washington (later Sulton Salaam, after converting to Islam). He was a practicing Muslim. He attended La Jolla Country Day School in suburban San Diego, and played eight-man football. He ran for over 100 yards in every game except one, and was recognized as a high school All-American. He was later inducted into the school's athletic hall of fame.\n\nSalaam attended the University of Colorado, where he played for the Colorado Buffaloes football team from 1992 to 1994. As a junior in 1994, Salaam had one of the best individual seasons in college football history, rushing for a school-record 2,055 yards and becoming only the fourth college running back to run for more than 2,000 yards in a season. He also amassed 24 touchdowns and helped lead Colorado to an 11–1 record, including a 41–24 win over the Notre Dame Fighting Irish in the 1995 Fiesta Bowl, and a No. 3 finish in the final Associated Press Poll. The Buffaloes' only loss of the season was to the Big Eight Conference rival Nebraska Cornhuskers, which finished undefeated and ranked No. 1 in both the Associated Press and United Press International polls at season's end. Salaam had four consecutive 200-yard rushing games during the season, his best effort coming against the Texas Longhorns, when he set a school record with 362 yards total offense in a 34–31 Colorado win in Austin. He was a unanimous first-team All-American and winner of the Heisman Trophy in December, beating out running back Ki-Jana Carter of Penn State and quarterbacks Steve McNair of Alcorn State and Kerry Collins of Penn State. Salaam also won the Walter Camp Award and Doak Walker Award.\n\nThe Chicago Bears selected Salaam in the first round, with the 21st overall selection, of the 1995 NFL Draft. He played for the Bears from to . As a rookie, he rushed for 1,074 yards and scored 10 touchdowns. However, he also lost 9 fumbles and averaged just 3.6 yards per carry. Problems with injuries, fumbles, and marijuana use led him to spend only three years with the Bears. During his two final years with Chicago, Salaam mustered only 608 combined yards. The Bears traded Salaam to the Miami Dolphins before the 1998 season, but the trade was undone when Salaam failed a physical examination with Miami. Salaam spent 1999 with the Cleveland Browns and the Green Bay Packers, but only played in two games for the Browns that year.\n\nSalaam briefly played in the XFL for the Memphis Maniax in 2001, but injury cut his season short and the league folded after one season. He finished the year with 528 yards gained.\n\nSalaam launched what appeared to be a final attempt at an NFL career in , beginning with a much publicized training at the Cris Carter Speed School. He was picked up by the San Francisco 49ers in but subsequently let go in August, in the second-to-last round of cuts, despite receiving accolades from then 49ers head coach Dennis Erickson.\n\nSalaam was signed by the Toronto Argonauts of the Canadian Football League (CFL) on February 20, 2004. He was then suspended by the Argos in May, effectively ending his career.\n\nSalaam was found dead on December 5, 2016, in a park in Boulder, Colorado. An autopsy was performed because authorities found a note near the body and were investigating it as a possible suicide. \n\nOn December 29, it was confirmed that the manner of death was suicide, specifically a gunshot wound to the head, in a report released by the Boulder County coroner's office. Salaam's blood-alcohol content was reportedly three times the legal driving limit and he had THC in his system.\n\nSalaam’s family did not consent to neuropathological tests that would have revealed whether he had previously sustained chronic head trauma, such as chronic traumatic encephalopathy. They declined to have his brain tested to determine whether his depression had been linked to such injuries from his days as a player.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208279", "title": "Doc Holliday (announcer)", "text": "Doc Holliday (announcer)\n\nDoc Holliday is a radio personality. His career began during high school in early 1979 in New Jersey. He was the anchor of the \"Doc & Johnny Morning Show\" on WXXL-FM in Orlando, Florida, for over 17 years, before resigning in March 2007. Also, Doc is the former arena announcer for the Orlando Predators of the Arena Football League. \n\nHe was also the announcer for \"Family Double Dare\" in its last season (1992–93), replacing John Harvey. Other appearances on the airwaves include Clear Channel's 740 the Team and ESPN Radio. He was the voice of the Orlando Predators for seven years. During Spring Training for Major League Baseball, he can be heard announcing the line-ups and batters for both the Atlanta Braves (Disney's Wide World of Sports at the Walt Disney World Resort) and Houston Astros (Osceola County Stadium in Kissimmee). \n\nOn March 5, 2007, as the show entered its 17th year, co-host Johnny Magic announced that Doc was moving on. In early May 2007, another core member of the morning show, Grace Vasquez, resigned citing differences with the stations management. Their morning show had won various awards for its outreach to the community. \n\nIn September 2007, Doc joined Grace Vasquez at WWKA-FM \"K92FM\" on the show \"Doc and Grace in the Morning\". At K92FM Doc was known for speaking his mind on the issues and for his community involvement. On September 1, 2010, it was announced that Doc would no longer be on the air at WWKA, but would remain employed by Cox Communications.\n\nDoc rejoined the airwaves on the Big 810 Real Talk Radio with \"The Doc Show\" in late 2011. In mid-2012, when Big 810 re-formatted to sports radio, \"The Doc Show\" was re-formatted as a local sports talk show. In 2013, the show was moved from the afternoon to morning drive time, 7-10am weekdays, to coincide with the station's affiliation with CBS Sports Radio and the resultant addition of \"The Jim Rome Show\".\n\nCurrently Doc Holliday is working on the development of the Phoenix Rising Radio Network. Doc can be found hosting a live show Monday through Friday 6:00 PM to 9:00 PM (EST) with co-host Bam Bam Sam and on Saturday evenings with a 70s Show. The website is located at \"DocShowCoast2Coast.com\". Studios are located in Saint Cloud, Florida\n\nDoc also has 3 sons, Jeffrey (Born 1985), Gary, (Born 1988), and Zachary (Born 1995), and one grandson, Jeffrey.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208292", "title": "Neoevolutionism", "text": "Neoevolutionism\n\nNeoevolutionism as a social theory attempts to explain the evolution of societies by drawing on Charles Darwin's theory of evolution while discarding some dogmas of the previous theories of social evolutionism. Neoevolutionism is concerned with long-term,\ndirectional, evolutionary social change and with the regular patterns of development that may be seen in unrelated, widely separated cultures.\n\nSociological neoevolutionism emerged in the 1930s. It developed extensively in the period after the Second World War—and was incorporated into anthropology as well as into sociology in the 1960s.\n\nNeoevolutionary theories are based on empirical evidence from fields such as archaeology, paleontology, and historiography. Proponents say neoevolutionism is objective and simply descriptive, eliminating any references to a moral or cultural system of values.\n\nWhile the 19th-century cultural evolutionism attempted to explain how culture develops by describing general principles of its evolutionary process, historical particularism dismissed it as unscientific in the early-20th century. Neoevolutionary thinkers brought back evolutionary ideas and developed them, with the result that they became acceptable to contemporary anthropology.\n\nNeoevolutionism discards many ideas of classical social evolutionism, notably the emphasis on social progress, so dominant in previous sociological evolution-related theories. Neoevolutionism discards the determinism argument and introduces probability, arguing that accidents and free will have much impact on the process of social evolution. It also supports counterfactual history—asking \"what if?\" and considering different possible paths that social evolution may (or might) have taken, and thus allows for the fact that various cultures may develop in different ways, some skipping entire \"stages\" others have passed through. Neoevolutionism stresses the importance of empirical evidence. While 19th-century social evolutionism used value judgments and assumptions when interpreting data, neoevolutionism relies on measurable information for analyzing the process of cultural evolution.\n\nImportant thinkers for neoevolutionism include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208293", "title": "RAF Denge", "text": "RAF Denge\n\nDenge is a former Royal Air Force site near Dungeness, in Kent, England. It is best known for the early experimental acoustic mirrors which remain there.\n\nThe acoustic mirrors, known colloquially as 'listening ears', at Denge are located between Greatstone-on-Sea and Lydd airfield, on the banks of a now disused gravel pit. The mirrors were built in the late 1920s and early 1930s as an experimental early warning system for incoming aircraft, developed by Dr William Sansome Tucker. Several were built along the south and east coasts, but the complex at Denge is the best preserved, and are protected as scheduled monuments.\n\nThere are three acoustic mirrors in the complex, each consisting of a single concrete hemispherical reflector.\n\n\nAcoustic mirrors did work and could effectively be used to detect slow moving enemy aircraft before they came into sight. They worked by concentrating sound waves towards a central point, where a microphone would have been located. However, their use was limited as aircraft became faster. Operators also found it difficult to distinguish between aircraft and seagoing vessels. In any case, they quickly became obsolete due to the invention of radar in 1932. The experiment was abandoned, and the mirrors left to decay. The gravel extraction works caused some undermining of at least one of the structures.\nThe striking forms of the sound mirrors have attracted artists and photographers. British artist Tacita Dean created a film inspired by the complex. The band Turin Brakes featured the mirrors on some of their album covers. The object appeared in the music video for Blank & Jones' \"A Forest\".The mirrors have also been featured in the music videos for \"Invaders Must Die by The Prodigy\" & \"Young Kato - Something Real\".\n\nIn 2003, English Heritage secured £500,000 from the Aggregates Levy Sustainability Fund and from the EU's Interreg programme under the Historic Fortifications Network, as administered by Kent County Council. This money was spent to restore the damage caused by the gravel works, as well as to install a swing bridge which now is the only means of access, reducing the monument's exposure to vandalism. The mirrors are situated on an island within an RSPB nature reserve, and can only be accessed on open days as the designated site (which has both Site of Special Scientific Interest and Special Protection Area status) is sensitive to disturbance. \n\n"}
{"id": "2208306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208306", "title": "Sally Ride EarthKAM", "text": "Sally Ride EarthKAM\n\nSally Ride EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle school students) is a NASA educational outreach program started in 1996. The program, initiated by Dr. Sally Ride, the first American woman in space, allows students to direct a digital camera aboard the International Space Station (ISS) to take photographs of specific places on Earth.\n\nDuring Sally Ride EarthKAM missions (periods when the Sally Ride EarthKAM camera is operational), middle school students around the world can submit requests to capture photographs of specific locations. There are typically four missions a year. Students’ requests are relayed to a camera on the ISS. The camera snaps photographs of the designated locations, and the digitized images are transmitted from orbit through a TDRSS K band satellite link to Johnson Space Center Mission Control. The images ultimately are posted on the Sally Ride EarthKAM website, where students can view and study them.\n\nThe project is run cooperatively by the University of Alabama in Huntsville; Teledyne Brown Engineering; Johnson Space Center; U.S. Space and Rocket Center; and the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL).\n\nSince the program’s creation, cameras aboard the space shuttle and later the ISS have taken thousands of photographs of Earth. The entire collection of Sally Ride EarthKAM images is available in a searchable Sally Ride EarthKAM image archive.\n\nTo take part in the program, teachers sign up on the Sally Ride EarthKAM website and then receive code words that are used to track image requests.\n\nJoBea Holt, an Earth scientist from NASA's Jet Propulsion Lab, had the idea for KidSat and worked with Sally Ride, Elizabeth Stork from Johns Hopkins Center for Talented Youth and JPL engineers to implement it in 1995. A Special Section of the IEEE Transactions on Geoscience and Remote Sensing (July 1999, volume 37, No. 4, p1751-1847) presents the KidSat missions along with the science, engineering and education that were integral to the program. The program allowed middle school students to capture images of Earth using a camera aboard the Space Shuttle. The program operated during five shuttle flights (STS-76, STS-81, STS-86, STS-89, and STS-99).\n\nKidSat was renamed EarthKAM (Earth Knowledge Acquired by Middle school students) in 1998. In 2001, the camera moved to the International Space Station, and the program was renamed ISS EarthKAM. After Ride's death in 2012, NASA renamed the program Sally Ride EarthKAM in her honor.\n\nEarthKAM captured the first photo of Earth from the newly installed Window Observational Research Facility (WORF).\n\nSally Ride EarthKAM received the Top Results Award at the Third Annual International Space Station Research and Development Conference, held June 17–19, 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208312", "title": "Chulabhorn (disambiguation)", "text": "Chulabhorn (disambiguation)\n\nChulabhorn is a princess of Thailand.\n\nChulaborn may also refer to the following, named after her the princess:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208315", "title": "Jennifer Rosanne States", "text": "Jennifer Rosanne States\n\nJennifer Rosanne States was a black Canadian child who died at age three in September 1968 and made national headlines when she was refused burial in an all-white cemetery.\n\nStates had been very ill from soon after birth. Her parents, with six other young children, were unable to care for her and sent her to a white foster family in Windsor, Nova Scotia. When she died this family tried to have her buried in the St. Croix Cemetery. However, the managing board cited a 1907 bylaw banning blacks and natives from the cemetery. States was instead buried in a traditionally black cemetery nearby. The incident came to the attention of the national media and caused a general outcry. The cemetery board quickly backed down and deleted the offending bylaw.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208327", "title": "New Town, Prague", "text": "New Town, Prague\n\nThe New Town () is a quarter in the city of Prague in the Czech Republic. New Town is the youngest and largest of the five independent (from the Middle Ages until 1784) towns that today comprise the historic center of modern Prague. New Town was founded in 1348 by Charles IV just outside the city walls to the east and south of the Old Town and encompassed an area of 7.5 km²; about three times the size of the Old Town. The population of Prague in 1378 was well over 40,000, perhaps as much as twice that, making it the 4th most populated city north of the Alps and, by area, the 3rd largest city in Europe. Although New Town can trace its current layout to its construction in the 14th century, only few churches and administrative buildings from this time survive. There are many secular and educational buildings in New Town, but also especially magnificent gothic and baroque churches. These nevertheless are not the main drawing points for tourists. New Town's most famous landmark is Wenceslas Square, which was originally built as a horsemarket and now functions as a center of commerce and tourism. In the 15th century, the Novoměstská radnice, or New Town Hall, was the site of the first of the three defenestrations of Prague.\n\nNo doubt in connection with his coronation as king under the Holy Roman Empire in 1346, Charles IV decided to found a new city in Prague. After he had achieved the city's independence within the church with the creation of the Archbishopric of Prague in 1344, the foundation of the New Town was intended further to enhance the status of the city which was the new residence of the king. In addition, the housing problem within the city walls of Prague that had already been apparent under Charles IV's father John of Luxembourg was crying out for a solution. Many people, mostly poorer Czechs, had settled in suburbs situated at the base of the city walls, and the banks of the Vltava were almost continuously built over.\n\nWhat was original about Charles IV's action was that he chose, instead of creating an administratively dependent suburb, or an extension of the old town, as was the usual practice, to create in the New Town an independent royal city with its own legal framework. Nevertheless, Charles planned a physical and legal union with the old part of town and decreed a common administration in 1367; however, primarily due to the opposition of the two town councils, this failed and had to be abandoned as little as ten years later. After many rights and liberties had been granted to the inhabitants of the new city, the inhabitants of the old part of town, which was now enclosed by the New Town on all sides, likewise had their existing rights and liberties confirmed in writing, and they were given the assurance of free access through both the northern gates of the New Town.\n\nTogether with the establishment of the New Town, the king made further efforts to increase the significance of the town. It was not only to be the new residence of the king and a centre for scholarship - on 7 April 1348, Charles University was founded as the first university in central Europe - and for the arts, but it was intended to become an important economic centre in Central Europe. To that end a shift of Central European traffic routes and the creation of new routes was planned, as well as making the Vltava navigable; and the plans had been carried out to some extent. The construction of the New Town was probably essentially complete as early as 1367, at the time of the short-lived union with the Old Town.\n\nThe new city covered an area of about and was thus more than double the size of the Old Town (106 hectares or 260 acres). It was about long from North to South, and 0.8 to 1.2 km (½ to ¾ mile) wide from east to west. The planned area was subdivided into several plots, according to the suitability of the land for the arrangement of the new town. Along the Vltava, from Vyšehrad towards the Old Town, several settlements of tanners and fishermen, with their own churches as well as a Jewish cemetery, already existed. To the West of the Old Town, on the Vltava, the settlement of Poříčí (\"Riverside\") was already densely built, containing two churches, St. Clement's and St. Peter's, as well as the bishop's court.\n\nAn east-facing terrace of land was clearly separated by a pronounced gully, 6 to 8 meters deep, from the plain on the bank of the river. The upper plateau was dominated by two ridges projecting far to the west, which were intended later to be occupied by planned constructions. Here likewise already existed some smaller settlements such as \"Na Rybníčku\" or\" Rybníček\" (\"By the Pond\") with a Romanesque rotunda, which was probably originally dedicated to St Stephen.\n\nThe building of the New Town commenced on 26 March 1348 with the ceremonial laying of the first stone of the New Town wall by Charles IV. The wall not only provided security for the planned new town, but also legally separated it from the surrounding land. The importance which was attached to the fortification is, \"inter alia\", evident in the fact that it took only two years to complete, although it was relatively low in comparison with the walls of older Bohemian cities.\n\nThe wall of the New Town began in Vyšehrad (whose fortification was renewed at the same time) and ran from there along the escarpment of the upper Vltava terrace by the Botič Brook to the highest point of the area, on which Charles' Court (with the Church of the Ascension of the BVM and Emperor Charles the Great) was later erected. The wall turned at this point and continued almost precisely north. After a slight turn to the east between the city gate at Ječná (Barley) Lane and the horse market (now Wenceslas Square), the wall then ran along the St Vitus' Hill brook, whose deeply cut valley maintained a constant distance from the Old Town until it reached the Vltava where the wall turned again, this time to the west.\n\nUnlike the Old Town, no wall was erected along the Vltava, since free access to the river had to be ensured. In total, the wall was about long, 6–10 meters tall, 3–5 meters wide and topped with battlements. While towers were placed along the eastern side every 100 meters, just one (in the valley) sufficed in the south, due to the steepness of the adjacent ground. Stronger towers were situated at the corners of the wall in the south-east and in the north-east at the St Vitus' Hill brook, as well as at the north end by the Vltava. The wall was breached only by four gates and a few small posterns. The wall was further protected by a ditch, where water mostly flowed in former stream beds, but it was dry in some places because of the differences in height. Evidently there was no outer wall (outside the ditch).\n\nAt the foundation of the New Town in 1348, the enclosed area was already mostly surveyed, divided into parcels. The plan for the roads as well as the positions of the various markets and the goods to be sold in each of them were all already determined. The structure of the older settlements on the Vltava was broadly maintained; but on the remaining, so far undeveloped terrain, unusually broad streets and squares were created; however the routes of already existing roadways were respected. The area of the New Town was however so large that it could not immediately be settled completely, and large sections in the north around the settlement of Poříčí and in the southeast remained undeveloped into the 19th century. The planning of the New Town was probably the responsibility of the French master cathedral builder Matthias of Arras, who had been brought to Prague from Avignon by Charles IV in 1342/44.\n\nCharles IV expressly forbid property speculation and granted to all, who wanted to settle, twelve years exemption from taxes. However, for the tax exemption to be earned, construction of a stone building had to be begun on the specified plot within a month and completed within one and a half years. This privilege was made available not only to Christians, but also to Jews; however few of the latter made use of it.\n\nCity accounting records show that by 1372 the streets of the New Town were already built up with houses for the most part. An important reason for the rapid settlement of the New Town was the decree of Charles IV that noisy and dirty trades were to be shifted from the Old Town to the New Town. Within the New Town concentrations of specific craftsmen developed around the appropriate markets. For example, fishermen, carpenters, raftsmen, tanners, dyers, brickmakers and limeburners were to be found along the Vltava, and around the horse market were located farriers, wagonmakers, coppersmiths and cabinetmakers. Thus the New Town was particularly inhabited by poorer craftsmen of Czech nationality, who had always dominated in the older riverside villages, while in the Old Town mostly German and Jewish craftsmen were found. These large economic and national differences resulted in a clear separation of the two cities and were finally also decisive for the disturbances during the Hussite Revolution at the end of the reign of Wenceslas IV.\n\nThe Church of St Henry and Cunigunde, with four trusses and three steeples of equal height, which was near an existing settlement, was established as the main parish church of the New Town () starting from 1350, immediately after the completion of the wall. Before the free-standing bell tower was built, the tower at the southwest corner of the church probably fulfilled this function. Likewise, the parish school at the church was established by Charles IV and even in the 16th and 17th centuries it was still counted among the best schools in Bohemia and along with the University was one of the most outstanding educational institutes in Prague. Not far from the church, on the site of the main post office (\"Hlavní pošta\") built between 1871 and 1874, were the botanical gardens of Charles University, laid out by the apothecary and personal physician of Charles IV, Angelus de Florentia, which was called the \"Andělská zahrada\" (\"Angel's Garden\"),the first botanical garden of Europe.\n\nThe economic center of the northern quarter was the Hay and Straw Market, which aligns roughly with the modern Senovážné náměstí. Wilfried Brosche was most likely responsible for planning the hay market in similar vein to the horse market. Present day Hibernia Street (\"Hybernská ulice\") forms the southern boundary of the former market. As early as 1379, it was paved (\"strata lapidae\") as the first road of the New Town, and thus received its older name Pavement Lane (). The market ran along the old road to Kutná Hora which was the main route toward the east. At the entrance to the Old Town stood the \"Tattered or Ragged gate\" () or as it was later called St. Ambrosius Gate at the end of Celetná (Tentmaker Street). A renewal of the gate was apparently already intended under Charles IV. The existing Powder Gate () was first built in 1475. The Mountain Gate or St Vitus' Gate () formed the upper end of the New Town wall. Also at the lower end of the Haymarket, Charles IV let a Benedictine monastery (Milanese rite) be established in 1355. The monastery and church were dedicated to St Ambrosius, in commemoration of the coronation of Charles as the king of Lombardy on 5 January of the same year in Milan Cathedral, where St Ambrosius was bishop in the 4th century. In addition, near the monastery, probably opposite the St. Benedict Gate of the Old Town, was the John and Jacob almshouse.\n\nThe second important market street in the lower New Town was River Street (Na Poříčí). It can be traced back to an old route, which began at the St. Benedict Gate of the Old Town and led through the pre-existing settlement to the Vltava. In the east the St Peter Gate or River Gate () was established as part of the city defenses of the New Town (it was removed in 1873). The two original Roman Catholic churches, the Church of St. Peter at Poříčí (Kostel sv. Petra na Poříčí) and the Church of St. Clement at Poříčí (Kostel sv. Klimenta na Poříčí), both underwent extensive extensions and changes in the second half of the 14th century.\n\nBetween the old settlement and the new construction north of the horse market, there remained much undeveloped open space, starting approximately from the height of the St. Henry's Church, which was only sparsely built and was mainly filled with gardens and green spaces.\n\nThe upper New Town became the focus of even greater importance. An old road to Vyšehrad and beyond to southern Bohemia would become the longest traffic route in Prague and the backbone of the upper New Town - today's Spálená, Vyšehradská and Na Slupi streets. It began at the St. Martins or Zderaz Gate at Perštýn and formed an extension of an important Old Town thoroughfare. Traffic at the southern end of the new city was now directed over the Vyšehrad, and continued up to the only tower in the south at the steepest part of the city wall, which secured a postern with no through passage and the water outflow of the Botič stream and the mill ditch. The section of the road along the Vltava had to accommodate the existing settlements of Opatovice, Zderaz and Podskalí so in this area, the old narrow and bent road courses were maintained here. (Only with the building of the Vltava quay and the transformation of almost all the bankside areas at the end of the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century were most buildings including some churches and the old structures eliminated.)\n\nBy contrast, in the largely unsettled area to the east of the road to the Vyšehrad, a planned system of broad parallel roads were built in a grid pattern, which is still clearly visible today. Two of these roads, each nearly 27 meters wide, formed a crossroads at the cattle market and carried the grain trade; they came to be known as Rye Lane (Žitná ulice) and Barley Lane (Ječná ulice). At the end of Barley Lane (also known as Pig Lane (Svinský trh, Svinská ul.), since it likewise served the small animal trade) near the old St John at the Battlefield Church (Kostel sv. Jan Na bojišti) stood the fourth gate, the Pig Gate (Svinská brána) or St. John's Gate. While the other gates consisted of a passage and two flanking towers, St John's Gate was built as a fortress. It consisted of a central courtyard with barrel-curved arched rooms on both sides, over it was an overhanging lintel with eight corner towers and a further higher tower standing over the gate entrance. The gate also protected the entrance of a brook into the New Town, whose water also fed the fish pond of the former settlement, Rybníček. (The gate was torn down between 1891-97 with the adjacent city wall, but during construction work on the Metrostation I. P. Pavlova, remainders of the gate were found as well as some tiles with old provincial coats-of arms as well as fragments of a relief with the Bohemian lion which were saved and today stand in the entry of the Metrostation.) Apart from the two water gates, the St. John's Gate formed the last access until the east gate of the Vyšehrad, so all the other routes south of Barley Lane also converged on this gate. These were probably roads of older origin and were developed without a strict plan to adapt to the complicated elevations within this area; apart from church plots this area remained to a large extent vacant.\n\nIn the center of the road Charles IV created today's Charles Square by widening the cattle market (Dobytčí trh), to the east. With an area of approximately 550 by 150 meters, this was for a long time the largest square in Europe and in became the administrative and economic center of the New Town. It served mainly the trade in cattle, fish, wood and coal and its central status was only in recent times ceded to Wencenslas Square.\n\nIn the center of the cattle market, in the extension of the Barley Lane, Charles IV had a wooden tower built, where since 1354 the crown jewels and reliquaries were put on display once a year. The sanctuary celebration was proclaimed by Charles as a general holiday in the realm, whereby Prague became one of the most important centers of pilgrimage in Europe. Next to the wooden tower the Chapel of Holy Blood or Corpus Christi was built between 1382 and 1393 and was torn down in 1791. From the octagonal central church with attached chapels rose a stone tower, from whose gallery were shown the reliquaries and crown jewels were displayed.\n\nIn a dominant position at the northeast corner of the cattle market the New Town city hall (Novoměstská radnice) was built as symbol of the independent royal city after 1367, but not later than 1377 during the renewed separation from the Old Town. The remaining sides of the cattle market were filled quite briskly after the plan of the square, whereby members of the aristocracy and the royal houses established themselves here. For example, on the south side was the Gothic Palace of the Princes of Opava whose property extended far to the south.\n\nIt seems possible, that when Charles IV was planning the New Town, he used Rome as a model; in particular the broad even roads and the powerful city gates are reminiscent. Similarly, other emperors have sought to create a \"Roma Nova\"; for example, Charlemagne with Aachen, Otto I with Magdeburg and Heinrich II with Bamberg. Grid-based city plans or extensions, if not on this large a scale, were already in existence in Central Europe and even in Bohemia, so that these other towns also probably served as models to Charles IV in the planning the New Town.\n\nThe often stated reference to Jerusalem is in contrast to its rather religious nature and reflects the concept of the creation of a new \"Valhalla\". W. Brosche counts at the time \"\"... around 1400 existing within the New Town area... three hospitals with churches or chapels, nine monasteries with all together ten consecrated spaces, fourteen parish churches with three additional chapels, also the city hall chapel in addition to the consecration places secured with Patrozinien on Vyšehrad, so that the New Town with 40 churches surpassed the Old Town with its 35 places of worship already by the end of the century.\"\"\n\nTo the monasteries in Prague, came friars and monks from almost every order and from remote countries of Europe. Specifically mentioned are the Benedictines at St. Ambrosius of Milan, the Augustinians from France at Na Karlově, the Servants of the Holy Virgin of the Meadow from Florence and the Slavic Benedictines from Croatia in the Emmaus Church. The monastery of Mary of the Snows was probably manned by Saxon Carmelites.\n\nIn 1378 a census commissioned by Charles IV found that Prague had 40,000 inhabitants, making it the fourth largest city north of the Alps after Paris, Ghent and Bruges. Based on physical area, Prague was the third-largest city in Europe after Rome and Constantinople. When one compares Prague with the other cities in medieval Europe and in particular with the established cities of the 12th to 14th centuries, the privileged position of the Prague New Town becomes clear. Charles IV \"... conceived here the largest urban planning project of the Middle Ages, and at the time, its equal could not be found in Europe. In the mid fourteenth Century in Europe there was no other city, in which an enclosed building project was organized and executed on such a scale, over two square kilometers. There is no other city, in which 18 to 27 meter-wide roads were created; where an arterial road was wide three-quarters of a kilometer long and over 60 meters wide and in the New Town alone was the central marketplace larger than most entire cities of this time including its walls. Here was planned and established the real administrative, cultural and economic center of Central Europe.\" (Vilém Lorenc, p13)\n\n\n\nThe Sts. Peter and Paul Church of the Canons and Holy Grave in the settlement Zderaz was converted and rebuilt to serve as the parish church. Numerous further cloisters and monasteries allowed Charles IV to establish a special area of dominance. He had already founded the monastery of St. Mary of the Snows on a spur of the upper plateau along the old road to the Vyšehrad before the creation of an important monastery in the New Town. In direct proximity to the old parish church of the riverside community Podskalí, St. Cosmas and Damian, in the territory of the Vyšehrad cathedral he settled with the agreement of the Pope Clemens VI on 22 November 1347, an order of Benedictine monks who adhered to the old Slavic liturgy. The monastery church, dedicated in 1372, received from them the name St Mary's at the Slavs (klášter P. Marie na Slovanech). Further south on the same street was built in 1360 a Servite monastery, with the church of St Mary on the Lawn (kostel P. Marie na Trávníčku) or \"on the pillars\" (Na Slupi). Not far from here, in 1355 the Convent of Augustinian Hermitesses (kostel sv. Kateřiny) was founded. This was instituted by Charles in thanks for his first victory on 25 November 1332 at San Felice castle in Italy. It was dedicated on 29 November 1367.\n\nIn summary, it may be observed that parish churches and monastery churches are often either linked to predecessor churches or to settlements or streets already existing in the vicinity. In contrast Charles founded two monastery churches on particularly exposed, but long uninhabited sites. Around 1362 was founded the Collegiate Abbey of St. Apollinaris (kostel sv. Apolináře) on the Wind Hill (Větrná hora or Na Větrníku).\n\nAt the highest point of the new fortifications in the SE, the wall changed to a northerly direction at the Painters Tower, where there was a small postern. It is clear that this necessitated the building of a third castle-like construction between Hradčany and Vyšehrad, the so-called Charles' Court. In 1350 Charles established some French Augustinian canons here.\n\nThe newly founded monastery and abbey churches in the upper New Town were also distinguished from the parish churches in that they were sited on the edge of the built-up area, or their entire surroundings remained almost entirely free. The slopes and plateaux east of Na slupi street and south of the Augustinian convent were merely vineyards and extended green spaces. Not least, another distinguishing feature was a further concept of town planning which was especially clearly visible from Vyšehrad. The five churches named above formed an almost symmetrical cross, in the centre was St. Apollinaris Abbey. The imaginary crossbeam ends with Charles Court and the Emmaus Monastery, which each lack towers, while the long arm of the cross is formed by churches with towers whose upper storey is octagonal. An extension of this arm leads directly to the Vyšehrad, which was thus included in the plan.\n\nOther monastery and abbey churches in the New Town:\n\nThe parish churches of the district to be newly settled in the upper New Town included St Stephen's Church (Kostel sv. Štěpána), built between 1351 and 1394. This stood next to an older church, a romanesque rotunda from the 12th century, which had been the parish church of Rybníček. Its financial support was now transferred to the new church; the rotunda was dedicated to St Longinus (Rotunda sv. Longina).\n\nAlso in the upper New Town, the churches of the existing settlements on the Vltava were extended during the reigns of Charles IV and Wenceslas IV, and rebuilt in Gothic style. A second, south, aisle, with its own presbytery, was added to the Church of St Adalbert (Kostel sv. Vojtěcha v Jirchářich) near the river bank, in the district of the Tanners and White Tanners (makers of white leather or tawers) around 1370. To the original romanesque St Michael's parish church of Opatovice (Kostel sv. Michala) were added a new choir and, around 1400, two side aisles. Building work was also carried out on St Peter's Church (\"na struze\"), which has not been preserved.\n\nTo the west of the parish Church of St Wenceslas at Zderaz (), King Wenceslas IV had built, starting in 1380, on a promontory overlooking the river, a small Gothic castle, probably with two storeys and vaulted chambers, which also had a five-storey tower and at least two crenellated walls. As part of the project in which the castle church was built, there also followed, before 1399, a Gothic rebuilding of St Wenceslas' Church.\n\nIn all probability there were similar enlargements to the Church of St John the Baptist and St Nicholas in Vyšehrad. Until around 1380 there were also some other small churches such as Holy Trinity Church south of the Emmaus Monastery, replaced around 1420 by the Gothic church of St Anthony; St Andrew's; St Michael's (Na slupi); and the Church of the Blessed Virgin Mary under the Vyšehrad and the associated St Elisabeth's Almshouse.\n\nThe Church of St. Apollinaire is located in New Town in Prague in Apolinarska street on Vetrov hill.\n\nThe almshouse of St Lazarus Church – both broken up at the turn of the century without previous examination – there was also an old Jewish cemetery, the Jews' Garden (Židovská zahrada). As early as 1254, under Ottokar II it was already given privileges. The Jews were further compelled to resettle in the immediate neighbourhood by Charles IV and Wenceslas IV. However they did not develop to the expected numbers, and thus in 1478 the Jewish cemetery was dissolved and the area was parcelled out and built upon. The Jews preferred to resettle in the Ghetto in the Old Town, and they were replaced by the houses of the butchers, whose market hall with 100 counters was already erected before 1349, north of the New Town Hall.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208340", "title": "Lan Samantha Chang", "text": "Lan Samantha Chang\n\nLan Samantha Chang (張嵐; pinyin: Zhāng Lán) is an American writer of novels and short stories. She is Professor of English at the University of Iowa and Director of the Iowa Writers' Workshop.\n\nSamantha Chang was born in Appleton, Wisconsin, the daughter of Chinese parents who survived the World War II Japanese occupation of China and later emigrated to the United States. Chang has received fellowships from Stanford University (the Stegner Fellowship) and Princeton University. She served as the Briggs-Copeland Lecturer of Creative Writing at Harvard University. Chang received an M.F.A. in Creative Writing from the University of Iowa, an M.P.A. from Harvard University, and a BA in East Asian Studies from Yale University. At Yale, she served as managing editor of the Yale Daily News. She is the recipient of a fellowship from the Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nChang is a Professor of English and Creative Writing at the University of Iowa and the Director of the Iowa Writers' Workshop — the first woman, and the first Asian American, to hold that position. She also teaches in the Warren Wilson College MFA Program for Writers. In 2008 she received a Guggenheim Fellowship and in the fall of 2015 she accepted a fellowship at the American Library in Paris. In 2019, she was appointed Elizabeth M. Stanley Professor in the Arts.\n\nThe five stories in \"Hunger\" (1998) deal mainly with the position of Chinese in America, though the last of them is set in pre-Communist Shanghai. \"Inheritance\" (2004) is the story of a wealthy but declining family in Republican China, beginning in 1925 and extending through the period of the Japanese invasion and the post-war flight to Taiwan and then the United States. Chang received the 2005 PEN/Open Book Award for \"Inheritance\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208345", "title": "Dave Clarke (DJ)", "text": "Dave Clarke (DJ)\n\nDavid Maurice \"Dave\" Clarke (born 19 September 1968) is an English electronic music DJ, producer and radio presenter. BBC radio presenter John Peel named Clarke \"The Baron of Techno\".\n\nBorn in Brighton, East Sussex, England, Clarke was educated at Brighton College, but moved out of home at the age of 16 after his parents separated.\n\nSince the age of 8, Clarke has been interested in music and technology, and to him, \"there was no alternative but to go professional.\"\n\nAfter a brief period of homelessness, a friend offered him temporary accommodation and Clarke continued to develop his love for music — initially hip hop and post-punk. The Damned was an early influence for Clarke and he continues to listen to the band during his music career:\n\"I bought my first Damned album because I thought they sounded like they'd be really evil,\" he declares, \"and even now their album \"Machine Gun Etiquette\" is one I keep coming back to. I like the attitude, the free rein of it, and on an artistic level I see my music as in the alternative genre rather than dance music. Techno and electro is an alternative that happens to be on the peripheries of dance music.\"\n\nDuring this period, his employment included a low-paying job in a shoe shop; however, his musical ambitions were established at this stage of his life: \"I used to tell people when I was working in a shoe shop that I would one day travel the world based on a career in music... I was that driven.\" Musical success began when he attained a DJ residency at the Brighton nightclub \"Toppers\", which rivalled a club night run by John Digweed (then known as DJ JD). Clarke later explained that he regarded the period \"as an apprenticeship\".\n\nClarke's music reviews were also published in the now-defunct \"DMC Update\" magazine and he reviewed the inaugural single by Aphex Twin. Clarke acknowledged in 2013, \"having my reviews in there [\"DMC Update\"] helped me to get the vinyls I needed to be out there DJing.\"\n\nClarke's musical career commenced as a producer and his first release was under the moniker \"Hardcore\" on the XL Recordings label in 1990. The release occurred two years after he played his first international show at the now-defunct \"Richters\" venue in Amsterdam, the Netherlands. The XL release gained the attention of Belgian techno music label R&S Records and he subsequently released various EPs in 1991 as both Hardcore and \"Directional Force\".\n\nIn 1992 Clarke launched his own music label, \"Magnetic North\", releasing recordings under the moniker \"Fly By Wire\". He then produced a series of EPs under the name \"Red\", one of which was listed by the \"DJ Mag\" publication in its \"All Time Techno Top 100\" list. The Red recordings led to a significant level of attention for Clarke, who subsequently produced remixes for prominent artists such as Kevin Saunderson's \"Inner City\", The Chemical Brothers, New Order and Underworld.\n\nSigned to the de-Construction label, Clarke then released his debut album, \"Archive One\", in 1996, which contained elements of the breakbeat and electronica genres. Clarke is one of the few DJs who performed live on Peel's radio show and segments of the performance were released as \"The John Peel Session\" EP on the Strange Fruit label in 1997, under the name \"Directional Force\". Also in 1997, Peel identified \"Archive 1\" as number 14 in a list of his top 20 albums at the time.\n\nClarke then released a series of DJ mix albums, including two \"World Service\" sets, released on the React Records label at the beginning of the 21st century. One of the albums sold over 100,000 copies, while \"World Service Vol. 1\" was ranked number 9 in the \"Resident Advisor\" (RA) magazine poll of best mix albums from the 2000–2009 period. In response to the \"RA\" ranking, Clarke stated:\nThere was a general frustration for me at the time that I started putting World Service together that there was so much good electro and techno coming out at the time, and I didn't want to do just one specific genre on a mix. I wanted it to be a continuation of my radio show—similar to the BBC's World Service—available to everyone around the globe. While I think I prefer the electro mix from World Service 2, there are so many great tracks on the first.\n\nThe album \"Devil's Advocate\", released in 2004, was Clarke's output during a brief period with the Skint music label and featured collaborations with Chicks on Speed, Mr Lif and DJ Rush. In 2006 Clarke launched his weekly radio program, \"White Noise\", on Dutch radio broadcaster VPRO (3FM).\n\nClarke relocated to Amsterdam in 2008, explaining in 2013 that he \"just couldn't grow there [England] anymore.\" Following Clarke's performance at Richter in the 1980s, he states that he \"fell in love with the place and hoped one day to live\" in the city. Clarke commended Amsterdam in 2013, as it \"has so many great things, an amazing way of life in the most beautiful setting with a bloody great big and reliable airport 15 mins away.\"\n\nIn 2011 Clarke started a new project called \"_Unsubscribe_\" with Jonas Uittenbosch (aka Mr. Jones), after they met in Utrecht, the Netherlands. They have remixed artists such as Ben Sims, Detroit Grand Pubahs and Boys Noize. In May 2013 their debut single, \"Spek Hondje\", appeared on the Houndstooth label—prior to this, Clarke had not recorded in a studio for six years.\n\nSince relocating to Amsterdam, Clarke founded the \"Dave Clarke Presents\" event moniker that, as of 2013, appeared on eight sold-out occasions at the annual Amsterdam dance event (ADE) and hosted the second-biggest outdoor stage at the Tomorrowland 2012 festival in Belgium; Dave Clarke Presents returned for Tomorrowland 2013. Clarke has also appeared at other prominent festival events, such as Awakenings, Glastonbury, Pukkelpop and Nature One.\n\nAs of 2013, Clarke's DJ presence at clubs includes Fabric in London, UK, Berghain in Berlin, Germany, and Fuse in Brussels, Belgium. In a 2013 interview, Clarke explained that Fabric and the \"celtic side\" (Ireland and Scotland) were solely responsible for quality electronica in the UK region:\nBut yes, the scene is cheesy in the UK, why do I think this...well I blame one person: Pete Tong, the driver of big business into UK radio. That is my interpretation anyway. Also the sad demise of record shops didn't help sustain a healthy disdain to the commerciality so omnipresent in the UK. Yes, Fabric kicks the crap away with an amazing stance for quality week in week out, but you mostly have to go to the celtic side to get back the punky attitude, Scotland, Ireland...\n\nClarke performed at the Smart Bar in Chicago, United States (US) in November 2013, which was his first American live show in around eight years. Clarke explained in a promotional interview that \"shiesty promoters not being professional and honouring legal commitments\" were responsible for his protracted absence. In the same interview, Clarke also provided his perspective on US electronica:\nThat is strange for me, the US invents house and electro, digests European electronica and comes up with Techno, yet never understands the culture it gave Europe and the World and doesn’t treat these innovators with any deep respect or understanding above cult status, that is a dilemma I cannot fathom.\n\nAs of 19 April 2014, 433 editions of \"White Noise\" have been broadcast and the program has moved VPRO (3FM) to the Irish station RTÉ 2fm. Clarke explained in 2013 that the radio show \"really is my way of paying back the scene.\"\n\nClarke was featured in the April 2014 edition of \"Mixmag\" magazine, in which he states: \"EDM is a vehicle for ego-centric artists to expand their wallets\". In 2014 Clarke will curate a stage at Belgium's Tomorrowland event for the third consecutive year and explained in a June 2014 interview with American magazine \"Big Shot\": \"In Belgium they always had an understanding and respect for underground music. I have been playing there for over 20 years so I think in their hearts they love having a bit of punk spirit on a very successful EDM festival, for me it is an honor to be entrusted in doing an alternative stage.\" When asked for his final thoughts in the \"Big Shot\" interview, Clarke stated: \"An American mag asking me questions whilst I am not and never have been part of EDM has to be an honor.\"\n\nClarke has not played vinyl in clubs since the end of the 2004, and instead played digital files on CD (his players of choice were the Technics DZ1210). In mid-2006, he then used the Technics DZ1210 in conjunction with Serato Scratch Live—with an SL3 converter—but also uses Pioneer CDJs or Denon CD DJ players (DJ SC2900), the latter of which he helped develop. For fast & easy navigation on Serato he is using a SpaceNavigator.\n\nClarke explained in June 2014 that he never prepares his DJ sets, which he explained was considered \"weird\" by others. Clarke explained:\nI like to be on my toes and be instinctual and “live,” so I will deal with each gig as it comes. Of course some are more “pressured” than others, but as an artist you feed off that.\n\nIn 2013 Clarke explained that his experience as a professional DJ was a combination of \"ups and downs\":\n... the travelling is tough, the lack of sleep is a killer (3–4 hours over 2–3 days), giving up your weekends for 25 years needs understanding from friends and family, being dead tired on a Tuesday is really a bummer, being in cars for hours on end when you want/need to sleep can drive you mad, being in a club when people really get you and all is syncopated is pure magic ...\n\nClarke also described an ideal Sunday in his life at the time: \"Getting home at 8am, my lovely girlfriend cooking me breakfast after I have a bath, sleeping for four hours, then going for a walk together to a record shop, then a steaming hot curry. That is heaven.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208348", "title": "Lake Alpine", "text": "Lake Alpine\n\nLake Alpine is a reservoir in Alpine County, California, formed by Alpine Dam on Silver Creek. It is located east of Bear Valley in the Sierra Nevada range. It sits at 7,303 feet (2,227 m) above mean sea level and is a popular spot for outdoor activities, such as boating and hiking in the summer, and snowmobiling and skiing in the winter, although it may be inaccessible at times due to snow.\nCalifornia State Route 4 passes to the north of Lake Alpine between Bear Valley and the Pacific Grade Summit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208356", "title": "The Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II", "text": "The Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II\n\nThe Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II is the third greatest hits album by the American rock band the Byrds, but only the second to be released in the United States, since the earlier \"The Byrds' Greatest Hits Volume II\" had only been issued in the UK. The album was released in the U.S. by Columbia Records on November 10, 1972 (\"see\" 1972 in music) in lieu of any new Byrds' product during that year. It spent a total of thirteen weeks on the \"Billboard\" Top LPs & Tapes chart and peaked at number 114.\n\n\"The Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II\" was released just prior to the highly publicized reunion of the five original members of the Byrds. The album was compiled with input from the band's guitarist and leader Roger McGuinn, although rock historian Christopher Hjort has suggested that it offered a somewhat erratic survey of the band's later years.\n\nThe bulk of the album's songs are drawn from the years 1969 through to 1971, with the 1968 albums \"The Notorious Byrd Brothers\" and \"Sweetheart of the Rodeo\" only being represented by \"Wasn't Born to Follow\" and \"You Ain't Goin' Nowhere\" respectively. The album also included \"He Was a Friend of Mine\", which had originally appeared on 1965's \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\" album, a period already covered by the band's first compilation album, \"The Byrds' Greatest Hits\". The album featured a number of the band's U.S. charting singles, including \"Ballad of Easy Rider\" (number 65), \"Jesus Is Just Alright\" (number 97), \"Chestnut Mare\" (number 121), and \"You Ain't Goin' Nowhere\" (number 74). However, since none of these singles reached the U.S. Top 40, they couldn't really be considered bona fide hits.\n\n\"The Best of The Byrds: Greatest Hits, Volume II\" was re-issued on CD in 1990, but is currently out of print. The album's cover photograph was later reused for a UK double album compilation named \"History of The Byrds\".\n\nPress reaction to the compilation was largely lukewarm, with Bud Scoppa, writing for \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, criticizing the album's song selection: \"If you were asked to put together an anthology album of one of the longest-lived, most productive rock groups ever, and you had the total output of the group to choose from, I'll bet you wouldn't come up with anything remotely resembling this album. It's not that the obvious selections aren't included, it's that so little else is.\" Music critic Stephen Thomas Erlewine described the album in his review for the Allmusic website as \"not a bad sampling of the Byrds' final years, but \"Sweetheart of the Rodeo\" itself offers a better summation of the musical direction the Byrds took after 1967.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208361", "title": "KF Bashkimi", "text": "KF Bashkimi\n\nKF Bashkimi may refer to one of two football clubs based in Kumanovo, North Macedonia:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208365", "title": "4TW", "text": "4TW\n"}
{"id": "2208374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208374", "title": "Conaco", "text": "Conaco\n\nConaco, LLC is the television production firm owned by entertainer Conan O'Brien. It has produced programs primarily for NBCUniversal and WarnerMedia, including O'Brien's \"Late Night,\" \"Tonight Show\" and \"Conan\". David Kissinger, former NBCU executive and the son of Henry Kissinger, has been president since 2005.\n\nConaco's first production credit was the short-lived 2001 reality show \"Lost\". The firm also produced the Andy Richter series \"Andy Barker, P.I.\" for six episodes as well as the drama \"Outlaw\", about a former Supreme Court justice (Jimmy Smits) who starts a law firm, which was canceled after a few episodes.\n\nO'Brien's departure agreement with NBC following the 2010 \"Tonight Show\" conflict allowed Conaco to continue operation until the end of the production season. After that, Conaco switched affiliations to Warner Bros. Television, owned by Time Warner along with O'Brien's new network beginning in November 2010, TBS. Conaco produces O'Brien's late night talk show on TBS. Conaco also produced \"Eagleheart\", a show starring Chris Elliott for TBS' sister network, Adult Swim.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208384", "title": "KTorrent", "text": "KTorrent\n\nKTorrent is a BitTorrent client that is part of the KDE Software Compilation.\n\nKTorrent is often received as a client intended to be feature rich. Features include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208386", "title": "Grimsley High School", "text": "Grimsley High School\n\nGrimsley Senior High School, also known as Grimsley High School or simply Grimsley, is a public high school in Greensboro, North Carolina. Formerly known as \"Greensboro High School,\" \"Greensboro Central High School,\" and then \"Greensboro Senior High School,\" it is part of the Guilford County Schools system. The school has an enrollment of around 1,800 students in grades 9–12 (the 9th grade was added to GHS in 1986). Grimsley has a reputation for strong academics, having been ranked in the top 100 in the nation by Newsweek 4 out of the past 6 years.\n\nThe school's colors are navy blue and white, and its teams are known as the \"Whirlies\" (originally the \"Purple Whirlwind\") depicted with a tornado-like symbol.\n\nThe school campus was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005.\nEstablished in 1899, Grimsley is the oldest institution of public secondary education in Guilford County and one of the oldest high schools in the state. (Asheville High School, Cary High School, Concord High School, and New Hanover High School in Wilmington are all older.)\n\nGHS was founded in 1899 as Greensboro High School; it became Greensboro Central High School in 1911 and Greensboro Senior High School in 1929 (when it moved to its current campus, after previously having had two locations in downtown Greensboro). In 1962, against the wishes of the school, it was renamed Grimsley Senior High School in honor of George Adonijah Grimsley, the superintendent of Greensboro's schools (1890–1902) who fostered the creation of GHS in 1899.\n\nUpon its creation in the fall of 1899, Greensboro High School was located on North Forbis Street in the former St. Agnes Catholic Church building, on part of the site of the current Greensboro Public Library, behind the Greensboro Historical Museum. By 1910, this building was outgrown, so for one year (1910–1911) GHS was moved next door to the Lindsay Street Grammar School. In the fall of 1911, the school moved to the site of today's Weaver Academy, where it became Greensboro Central High School, and where it remained until 1929. In the fall of 1929, GHS moved to its current Westover Terrace location, when it became Greensboro Senior High School. See \"facilities\" section below for a description of the current campus.\n\nIn 1902, Greensboro High School established the first school library and book rental system in the state. 10th grade was also added that year (previously 9th grade was the highest grade).\n\nIn 1911, after the move to Spring Street, 11th grade was added.\n\nIn 1934, as part of the New Deal's Civil Works Administration (CWA), two large murals were painted in the GHS auditorium by Raleigh artist James A. McLean: \"Energy\" and \"Education.\"\n\nThe school's original colors were purple and gold (circa 1909–10). Because of increasing difficulty in finding matching shades of purple for athletic and band uniforms, the colors were changed—by vote of the student body in March 1951—to navy blue and white.\n\nThe mascot was originally the \"Purple Whirlwind,\" adopted in 1921. Local papers, in an attempt to have variety when referring to GHS's teams (and to save space in headlines) came up with the name \"Whirlies\" in 1941. (Other variations of \"Purple Whirlwinds\" had been used back to the 1930's.) The name \"Whirlies\" caught on quickly and was used interchangeably with \"Purple Whirlwinds\" until the color change in 1951, leaving the original mascot name as \"Whirlwinds.\" Since the late 1950's, \"Whirlies\" has been used almost exclusively.\n\nWhile the whirlwind was the mascot beginning in 1921, in 1956—and originating as the theme of the \"Whirligig\" yearbook that year—the Whirlibird mascot appeared, becoming instantly popular. It became the main mascot for the school, lasting until the early 1980's, when the whirlwind re-emerged as GHS's mascot.\n\nGrimsley's Alma Mater was composed and written by Herbert Hazelman in the fall of 1949. Mr. Hazelman was the Greensboro Senior High Band Director for 40 years. The music building is now named in his honor.\n\nIn 1958, Josephine Boyd became the first black student to graduate from Greensboro Senior High School. GHS was the first formerly all-white high school in the state of North Carolina to have an African-American to graduate.\n\nOn January 16, 1962, Greensboro Senior High School changed its name to Grimsley Senior High School after principal A.P. Routh received a surprise phone call from a Greensboro City Schools official informing the school that the school board was going to change the name of the high school that night, and they had three hours to choose a new name or the school board would choose for them. Routh and the staff chose Grimsley because there was a strong desire to keep the school GHS, and George A. Grimsley was the superintendent of Greensboro City Schools when Greensboro Senior was first established in 1899. The name change took effect on July 1, 1962.\n\nAdvanced Placement (AP) classes were first offered at Grimsley in 1964. In the fall of 1995, Grimsley became the first school in Guilford County and only the fourth school in North Carolina to offer the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Programme.\n\nOn August 20, 2008, then Presidential candidate, and soon to be 44th President of the United States, Barack Obama played basketball with former SportsCenter anchor Stuart Scott in the Sawyer Gym.\n\nIn 2013, Grimsley had the graduation of a fifth-generation GHS student which became statewide news because of its rarity for a public school.\n\nThe Advanced Placement (AP) program was introduced at Grimsley in 1964 with the introduction of AP European History (1964-2014), followed by AP English in 1968. Today AP classes are offered at GHS in 19 different subjects. In 1995, the International Baccalaureate (IB) program was instituted at Grimsley, after two years of preparation by the school under Principal Tom Penland. Grimsley was only the fourth high school in North Carolina, and the first outside Charlotte, to offer the IB program.\n\nAside from the AP and IB programs, a College Preparatory program and a careers program that includes a Health Careers track are offered. The school participates in academic competitions such as High IQ, Science Olympiad, robotics, and FIRST.\n\nGrimsley has above average national passing rates for nearly every AP test offered at the school. Leading the way is Calculus BC, which sometimes has a passing rate of 100%, taught by Roberta Rohan '82 who was honored with the Siemens Award for Advanced Placement in 2010. She was one of 50 teachers nationwide and the only teacher from North Carolina to receive the award.\n\nThe Westover Terrace GHS campus, which opened in 1929, is unusual in that it is made up of multiple buildings (a conscious decision of the school board in the late 1920s), rather than just one all-encompassing building. The Main Building, Old Science Building, and Cafeteria Building—three of six originally proposed structures—were built in 1929. The cost of living had risen so much in the late 1920s that the other three could not be built at that time; the onset of the Great Depression—soon after the new campus opened—further delayed expansion of the campus.\n\nAs of 2015, Grimsley's campus has 11 separate buildings, consisting of the Main building (1929), which has offices and classrooms on the first floor, classrooms on the second and third floors, and the 1500+ seat John Barnes Chance-M. Thomas Cousins Auditorium. The Old Science Building (1929) has two stories of classrooms. Immediately behind it is the one-story New Science building (1975). There is a two-story Home Economics Building (1956). The one-story Library Building (1967/expanded 2003) has two classrooms as well as the GHS library. The Old Cafeteria Building (1929) has classrooms on the first and second floor currently. Before 2014, the cafeteria building housed the school lunch room. The two-story Herbert R. Hazelman Music Building (1956, named 2004) contains the band, orchestra, and choir rooms, plus numerous practice rooms and two classrooms. The Vocational Building (1942) has two stories of classrooms. Plans were complete in 2011 for a new Cafeteria Building (authorized by a bond vote in 2008), to be constructed behind and between the Home Economics and New Science buildings. The New Cafeteria building was complete by the beginning of the 2013–2014 school year.\n\nAcross the service road, \"Campus Drive,\" from the academic buildings are GHS's athletic facilities. The Robert R. Sawyer '55 Gym (1954, originally the \"Boys' Gym,\" then the \"Main Gym\", named in 2000) was the largest high school gym in North Carolina when built, and was architecturally significant because it had the largest unsupported concrete beams ever built in an American building when it was new. The Auxiliary Gym (1939, originally the \"Girls' Gym\") has a basketball court, a weight-training facility, and a classroom. Connected to the Sawyer Gym is the John Gordon Dewey '71 Memorial Swimming Pool, which opened in 1976 but became defunct in December 2011 after a large storm uprooted part of the roof. Behind the Sawyer Gym and Dewey Pool are eight tennis courts (1975), a practice field, and the Softball Field (1980s). Across Campus Drive are the other athletic facilities, the Robert B. Jamieson Football Stadium (1949, named in 1975), which included a track (1958–2012) and the Sigmund Selig Pearl Memorial Field House (1950), and beyond the football stadium, the Willie Young/Lewis McCall Memorial Baseball Field (1953, named in 1974 and 2007), and the Cross Country trail (1962). The 2008 bond referendum, besides authorizing a new cafeteria for Grimsley, also includes money for a major overhaul of both the Sawyer Gym and Jamieson Stadium, as well as the construction of a new track stadium and a new softball field.\n\nThe original wooden covered walkways connecting the various campus buildings were built in the 1930s, and most were replaced (although a few of the originals remain) with two-story brick covered walkways built in 2002–03 (as originally planned in 1929), when the campus was made ADA compliant (and air conditioned), funded by money approved in a bond referendum in 2000. It has been said that the use of hard clay in the set up of walkways in 2002-03 created the infamous \"Lake Grimsley\" in the front lawn. Lake Grimsley (as students call it) is a large area of standing water that forms when it rains heavily or for a long period of time. The Grove (developed in 1963), a large outdoor social area between the Main and Music buildings is a popular spot for eating lunch and hanging out, although the 2012-13 school year was the final year students were allowed to eat lunch in the grove (with the exception of the rare occasion of a combined lunch), due to the opening of the New Cafeteria. Originally the majority of the Grove was covered with gravel, but it was paved with cement in late 1973. Besides the paved areas, there also is an area with a mulch ground covering, and several large trees which provide shade for many picnic tables.\n\nGrimsley actively encourages students to join some of the many clubs offered. Many of these clubs are started and run by the students themselves. While student-created clubs result in many different clubs that represent a wide area of activities, often these clubs disintegrate after the founder or president leaves.\n\nClubs currently offered at Grimsley include:\nGrimsley is a 4-A school with a strong athletic program, including sports teams in football, basketball, baseball, tennis, swimming & diving, golf, wrestling, cross country, track & field (both winter and spring), soccer, softball, volleyball, field hockey, and lacrosse. GHS has won more athletic team state championships than any other high school in North Carolina—the first being in football in 1907—as well as many individual state championships. Grimsley has won the NCHSAA 4-A Wachovia Cup (for the most outstanding 4-A athletic program in North Carolina) five times: 1985, 1986, 1987, 1988, and 1990. Grimsley has also been undefeated in men's swimming in dual meets for over a quarter century.\n\nAn athletic \"boosters program,\" alumni, and the annual Grimsley-Page football game generate much of the funding for the sports programs at GHS.\n\nGrimsley's Robert B. Jamieson Football Stadium (with a 1/4-mile track until it was removed in 2012) was the largest high school football stadium in North Carolina when it was completed in 1949. Today, it is also the site of soccer and lacrosse games in addition to football. It is home to many local events, including fundraisers, special Olympics, the annual North Carolina Coaches' Association's East-West All-Star Game (the first such game, in 1949, was the first game played in the stadium), and the annual fireworks display for the city on Independence Day until 2010, when it was moved to the newly opened White Oak amphitheater.\n\nConstruction of a new outdoor track was completed in the Spring of 2012.\n\nThe school has two gymnasiums. The larger Robert R. Sawyer '55 (formerly Boys'/Main) Gym provides facilities for most indoor sports such as basketball, wrestling, and volleyball, while the smaller Auxiliary (formerly Girls') Gym has a basketball court, a weight room, and a classroom.\n\nAs with Jamieson Stadium, the Sawyer Gym was the largest high school gym in the state when it opened. From 1976-2015, attached to the Sawyer Gymnasium was the building containing the John Dewey '71 Memorial Pool, which was permanently closed in December 2011 and torn down in August 2015, after it was determined that structural issues and damage was too extensive to save the building.\n\nGHS's tennis courts (1974) are located behind the Sawyer Gym, as is a practice field, and the GHS softball field. The Willie Young-Lewis McCall Baseball Field (1953) is located behind the Jamieson Stadium. The GHS cross country trail (1962) is in the woods behind Kiser Middle School and the football stadium and baseball field.\n\nHistoric sports rivalries for GHS over the years have included: Reidsville High School in the 1920s and '30s, High Point Central High School in the late '30s through the early '50s, R. J. Reynolds High School, in Winston-Salem from the mid-'50s to the mid-'60s, and Walter Hines Page Senior High School in Greensboro since the mid-1960s. This rivalry is celebrated every year with a spirit week before the football game, which usually attracts crowds of close to 10,000, the capacity of Jamieson Stadium. The most significant Grimsley-Page football game occurred on November 20, 1987, when Grimsley beat the undefeated and top ranked team in the state at the time (15th in the nation), Page Pirates 10-7 in the state 4-A playoffs, Grimsley's first win over Page since 1971 (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUYhJscPi7Q). Prior to this game, the \"average\" score of a Grimsley-Page game in the 1980s was 44-4. Jamieson Stadium served as the venue for the game every year until 2015, when the game was moved to Page High School's Marion Kirby Stadium. On November 8, 2019, Grimsley defeated Page by a score of 32-17 at Marion Kirby Stadium, Grimsley's first win over Page since 2006, winning the Metro 4A Conference Title and a #1 overall seed in the NCHSAA 4A State Tournament.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208391", "title": "Celtic Britons", "text": "Celtic Britons\n\nThe Britons (, , ), also known as Celtic Britons or Ancient Britons, were Celtic people who inhabited Great Britain from at least the British Iron Age into the Middle Ages, at which point their culture and language diverged into the modern Welsh, Cornish and Bretons (among others). They spoke the Common Brittonic language, the ancestor to the modern Brittonic languages.\n\nThe traditional view that the Celtic Britons originally migrated from mainland Europe, mostly across the English Channel, with their languages, culture and genes in the Iron Age has been considerably undermined in recent decades by the contention of many scholars that Celtic languages had instead spread north along the Atlantic seaboard during the Bronze Age, and the results of genetic studies, which show a large continuity between Iron Age and older British populations, suggesting trans-cultural diffusion was also very important in the introduction of the Celtic languages.\nThe earliest evidence for the Britons and their language in historical sources dates to the Iron Age. After the Roman conquest of Britain in the 1st century, a Romano-British culture emerged, and Latin and British Vulgar Latin coexisted with Brittonic. During and after the Roman era, the Britons lived throughout Britain. Their relationship with the Picts, who lived north of the Firth of Forth, has been the subject of much discussion, though most scholars now accept that the Pictish language was related to Common Brittonic, rather than a separate Celtic language.\n\nWith the beginning of Anglo-Saxon settlement in the south and east and Gaelic Scots in the north west in the 5th and 6th centuries, the culture and language of the Britons fragmented, and much of their territory was gradually taken over by the Anglo-Saxons and Gaels. The extent to which this cultural and linguistic change was accompanied by wholesale changes in the population is still a matter of discussion. During this period some Britons migrated to mainland Europe and established significant colonies in Brittany (now part of France), the Channel Islands as well as Britonia in modern Galicia, Spain. By the beginning of the 11th century, remaining Brittonic Celtic-speaking populations had split into distinct groups: the Welsh in Wales, the Cornish in Cornwall, the Bretons in Brittany, the Cumbric speaking people of the \"Hen Ogledd\" (\"Old North\") in southern Scotland and northern England, and the remnants of the Pictish people in the north of Scotland. Common Brittonic developed into the distinct Brittonic languages: Welsh, Cumbric, Cornish and Breton.\n\nThe earliest known reference to the inhabitants of Britain seems to come from 4th-century BC records of the voyage of Pytheas, a Greek geographer who made a voyage of exploration around the British Isles between 330 and 320 BC. Although none of his own writings remain, writers during the time of the Roman Empire made much reference to them. Pytheas called the islands collectively (\"hai Brettaniai\"), which has been translated as the \"Brittanic Isles\"; he also used the term \"Pretannike\". The peoples of these islands were called the Πρεττανοί (\"Prettanoi\"), \"Priteni\", \"Pritani\" or \"Pretani\". The group included Ireland, which was referred to as \"Ierne\" (\"Insula sacra\" \"sacred island\" as the Greeks interpreted it) \"inhabited by the race of \"Hiberni\"\" (\"gens hibernorum\"), and Great Britain as \"insula Albionum\", \"island of the Albions\". The term \"Pritani\" may have reached Pytheas from the Gauls, who possibly used it as their term for the inhabitants of the islands.\n\nThe \"Anglo-Saxon Chronicle\", which was originally compiled by the orders of King Alfred the Great in approximately 890, and subsequently maintained and added to by generations of anonymous scribes until the middle of the 12th century, starts with this sentence: \"The island Britain is 800 miles long, and 200 miles broad, and there are in the island five nations: English, Welsh (or British, including the Cornish), Scottish, Pictish, and Latin. The first inhabitants were the Britons, who came from Armenia, and first peopled Britain southward.\" (\"Armenia\" is possibly a mistaken transcription of Armorica, an area in northwestern Gaul including modern Brittany.)\n\nThe Latin name in the early Roman Empire period was \"Britanni\" or \"Brittanni\", following the Roman conquest in AD 43.\n\nThe Welsh word \"Brython\" was introduced into English usage by John Rhys in 1884 as a term unambiguously referring to the P-Celtic speakers of Great Britain, to complement \"Goidel\"; hence the adjective \"Brythonic\" referring to the group of languages. \"Brittonic languages\" is a more recent coinage (first attested 1923 according to the \"Oxford English Dictionary\") intended to refer to the ancient Britons specifically.\n\nIn English, the terms \"Briton\" and \"British\" for many centuries originally denoted only the ancient Celtic Britons and their descendants, most particularly the Welsh, Cornish and Bretons, who were seen as heirs to the ancient British people. From the early 16th century, and especially after the Acts of Union 1707, the terms \"British\" and \"Briton\" could be applied to all inhabitants of the Kingdom of Great Britain, including the English, Scottish and some Northern Irish, or the subjects of the British Empire generally.\n\nThe Britons spoke an Insular Celtic language known as Common Brittonic. Brittonic was spoken throughout the island of Britain (in modern terms, England, Wales and Scotland), as well as offshore islands such as the Isle of Man, Isles of Scilly, Orkney, Hebrides, Isle of Wight and Shetland. According to early medieval historical tradition, such as \"The Dream of Macsen Wledig\", the post-Roman Celtic-speakers of Armorica were colonists from Britain, resulting in the Breton language, a language related to Welsh and identical to Cornish in the early period and still used today. Thus the area today is called Brittany (Br. \"Breizh\", Fr. \"Bretagne\", derived from \"Britannia\").\n\nCommon Brittonic developed from the Insular branch of the Proto-Celtic language that developed in the British Isles after arriving from the continent in the 7th century BC. The language eventually began to diverge; some linguists have grouped subsequent developments as Western and Southwestern Brittonic languages. Western Brittonic developed into Welsh in Wales and the Cumbric language in the Hen Ogledd or \"Old North\" of Britain (modern northern England and southern Scotland), while the Southwestern dialect became Cornish in Cornwall and South West England and Breton in Armorica. Pictish is now generally accepted to descend from Common Brittonic, rather than being a separate Celtic language. Welsh and Breton survive today; Cumbric and Pictish became extinct in the 12th century. Cornish had become extinct by the 19th century but has been the subject of language revitalization since the 20th century.\n\nIdeas about the development of British Iron Age culture changed greatly in the 20th century, and remain in development. Generally cultural exchange has tended to replace migration from the continent as the explanation for changes, although Aylesford-Swarling Pottery and the Arras culture of Yorkshire are examples of developments still thought to be linked to migration.\n\nAlthough the La Tène style, which defines what is called Celtic art in the Iron Age, was late in arriving in Britain, after 300 BC the ancient British seem to have had generally similar cultural practices to the Celtic cultures nearest to them on the continent. There are significant differences in artistic styles, and the greatest period of what is known as the \"Insular La Tène\" style, surviving mostly in metalwork, was in the century or so before the Roman conquest, and perhaps the decades after it. By this time Celtic styles seem to have been in decline in continental Europe, even before Roman invasions.\n\nAn undercurrent of British influence is found in some artefacts from the Roman period, such as the Staffordshire Moorlands Pan, and it appears that it was from this, passing to Ireland in the late Roman and post-Roman period, that the \"Celtic\" element in Early Medieval Insular art derived.\n\nThroughout their existence, the territory inhabited by the Britons was composed of numerous ever-changing areas controlled by Brittonic tribes. The extent of their territory before and during the Roman period is unclear, but is generally believed to include the whole of the island of Great Britain, at least as far north as the Clyde–Forth isthmus, and if the Picts are included as Brittonic speaking people (as they more usually are), the entirety of Great Britain and its offshore island groups. The territory north of the Firth of Forth was largely inhabited by the Picts; little direct evidence has been left of the Pictish language, but place names and Pictish personal names recorded in the later Irish annals suggest it was indeed related to the Common Brittonic language rather than to the Goidelic (Gaelic) languages of the Irish, Scots and Manx. Indeed their Goidelic Irish name, \"Cruithne\", is cognate with Brythonic \"Priteni\". After the invasion of north western Britain by Gaelic-speaking Celts from Ireland from the 6th century AD onwards, part of the Pictish territory was eventually absorbed into the Gaelic kingdoms of Dál Riata and Alba, which became Scotland. The Isle of Man, Shetland, the Hebrides and Orkney were originally inhabited by Britons also, but eventually became respectively Manx and Scots Gaelic speaking territories, while the Isles of Scilly and Anglesey (Ynys Mon) remained Brittonic, and the originally Brittonic Isle of Wight was taken by Anglo-Saxons.\n\nIn 43 AD, the Roman Empire invaded Britain. The British tribes opposed the Roman legions for many decades, but by 84 AD the Romans had decisively conquered southern Britain and had pushed into Brittonic areas of what would later become northern England and southern Scotland. In 122 AD, they fortified the northern border with Hadrian's Wall, which spanned what is now Northern England. In 142 AD, Roman forces pushed north again and began construction of the Antonine Wall, which ran between the Forth–Clyde isthmus, but they retreated back to Hadrian's Wall after only twenty years. Although the native Britons south of Hadrian's Wall mostly kept their land, they were subject to the Roman governors, whilst the Brittonic-Pictish Britons north of the wall remained fully independent and unconquered. The Roman Empire retained control of \"Britannia\" until its departure about AD 410, although some parts of Britain had already effectively shrugged off Roman rule decades earlier.\n\nThirty years or so after the time of the Roman departure, the Germanic-speaking Anglo-Saxons began a migration to the eastern coast of Britain, where they began to establish their own kingdoms, and the Gaelic-speaking Scots migrating from Dál nAraidi (modern Northern Ireland) did the same on the west coast of Scotland and the Isle of Man.\n\nAt the same time, some Britons established themselves in what is now called Brittany and the Channel Islands. There they set up their own small kingdoms and the Breton language developed there from Brittonic Insular Celtic rather than Gaulish or Frankish. A further Brittonic colony, Britonia, was also set up at this time in Gallaecia in northwestern Spain.\n\nMany of the old Brittonic kingdoms began to disappear in the centuries after the Anglo-Saxon and Scottish Gaelic invasions; Parts of the regions of modern East Anglia, East Midlands, North East England, Argyll and South East England were the first to fall to the Germanic and Gaelic Scots invasions.\n\nThe kingdom of Ceint (modern Kent) fell in 456 AD. Linnuis (which stood astride modern Lincolnshire and Nottinghamshire) was subsumed as early as 500 AD and became the English Kingdom of Lindsey.\n\nRhegin (essentially modern Sussex and eastern Hampshire) was likely fully conquered by 510 AD. Ynys Weith (Isle of Wight) fell in 530 AD, Caer Colun (essentially modern Essex) by 540 AD. The Gaels arrived on the north–west coast of Britain from Ireland, dispossessed the native Britons, and founded Dal Riata which encompassed modern Argyll, Skye and Iona between 500 and 560 AD. Deifr (Deira) which encompassed modern day Teesside, Wearside, Tyneside, Humberside, Lindisfarne (Medcaut) and the Farne Islands fell to the Anglo-Saxons in 559 AD and Deira became an Anglo-Saxon kingdom after this point. Caer Went had officially disappeared by 575 AD becoming the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of East Anglia. Gwent was only partly conquered; its capital Caer Gloui (Gloucester) was taken by the Anglo-Saxons in 577 AD, handing Gloucestershire and Wiltshire to the invaders, while the westernmost part remained in Brittonic hands, and continued to exist in modern Wales.\n\nCaer Lundein, encompassing London, St. Albans and parts of the Home Counties, fell from Brittonic hands by 600 AD, and Bryneich, which existed in modern Northumbria and County Durham with its capital of Din Guardi (modern Bamburgh) and which included Ynys Metcaut (Lindisfarne), had fallen by 605 AD becoming Anglo-Saxon Bernicia. Caer Celemion (in modern Hampshire and Berkshire) had fallen by 610 AD. Elmet, a large kingdom which covered much of modern Yorkshire, Lancashire and Cheshire and likely had its capital at modern Leeds, was conquered by the Anglo-Saxons in 627 AD. Pengwern, which covered Staffordshire, Shropshire, Herefordshire and Worcestershire, was largely destroyed in 656 AD, with only its westernmost parts in modern Wales remaining under the control of the Britons, and it is likely that Cynwidion, which had stretched from modern Bedfordshire to Northamptonshire, fell in the same general period as Pengwern, though a sub-kingdom of Calchwynedd may have clung on in the Chilterns for a time.\n\nNovant, which occupied Galloway and Carrick, was soon subsumed by fellow Brittonic-Pictish polities by 700 AD. Aeron, which encompassed modern Ayrshire, was conquered by the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Northumbria by 700 AD.\n\nSome Brittonic kingdoms were able to successfully resist these incursions for some time: Rheged (encompassing much of modern Northumberland and County Durham and some areas of southern Scotland and the Scottish Borders) survived well into the 8th century AD, before the eastern part peacefully joined with the Anglo-Saxon kingdom of Bernicia–Northumberland by 730 AD, and the west was taken over by the fellow Britons of Ystrad Clud. Similarly, the kingdom of Gododdin, which appears to have had its court at Din Eidyn (modern Edinburgh) and encompassed parts of modern Northumbria, County Durham, Lothian and Clackmannanshire, endured until approximately 775 AD before being divided by fellow Brittonic Picts, Gaelic Scots and Anglo-Saxons.\n\nThe Kingdom of Cait, covering modern Caithness, Sutherland, Orkney, and Shetland, was conquered by Gaelic Scots in 871 AD. Dumnonia (encompassing Cornwall, Devonshire and the Isles of Scilly) was partly conquered during the mid 9th century AD, with most of modern Devonshire being annexed by the Anglo-Saxons, but leaving Cornwall, the Isles of Scilly (Enesek Syllan), and for a time part of western Devonshire (including Dartmoor), still in the hands of the Britons, where they became the Brittonic state of Kernow. The Channel Islands (colonised by Britons in the 5th century) came under attack from Norse and Danish Viking attack in the early 9th century AD, and by the end of that century had been conquered by Viking invaders.\n\nThe Kingdom of Ce, which encompassed modern Marr, Banff, Buchan, Fife, and much of Aberdeenshire, disappeared soon after 900 AD. Fortriu, the largest Brittonic-Pictish kingdom which covered Strathearn, Morayshire and Easter Ross, had fallen by approximately 950 AD to the Gaelic Kingdom of Alba (Scotland). Other Pictish kingdoms such as Circinn (in modern Angus and The Mearns), Fib (modern Fife), Fidach (Inverness and Perthshire), and Ath-Fotla (Atholl), had also all fallen by the beginning of the 11th century AD or shortly after.\n\nThe Brythonic languages in these areas was eventually replaced by the Old English of the Anglo-Saxons, and Scottish Gaelic, although this was likely a gradual process in many areas.\n\nSimilarly, the Brittonic colony of Britonia in north western Spain appears to have disappeared soon after 900 AD.\n\nThe kingdom of Ystrad Clud (Strathclyde) was for some time a large and powerful Brittonic kingdom of the Hen Ogledd (the 'Old North') which endured until the end of the 11th century, successfully resisting Anglo-Saxon, Gaelic Scots and later also Viking attacks. At its peak it encompassed modern Strathclyde, Dumbartonshire, Cumbria, Stirlingshire, Lanarkshire, Ayrshire, Dumfries and Galloway, Argyll and Bute, and parts of North Yorkshire, the western Pennines, and as far as modern Leeds in West Yorkshire. Thus the Kingdom of Strathclyde became the last of the Brittonic kingdoms of the 'old north' to fall in the 1090s, when it was effectively divided between England and Scotland.\n\nThe Britons also retained control of Wales and Kernow (encompassing Cornwall, Dartmoor and the Isles of Scilly) until the mid 11th century AD when Cornwall was effectively annexed by the English, with the Isles of Scilly following a few years later, although at times Cornish lords appear to have retained some sporadic control into the early part of the 12th century AD.\n\nWales remained free from Anglo-Saxon, Gaelic Scots and Viking control, and was divided among varying Brittonic kingdoms, the foremost being Gwynedd (including Clwyd and Anglesey), Powys, Deheubarth (originally Ceredigion, Seisyllwg and Dyfed), Gwent, and Morgannwg (Glamorgan). Some of these Brittonic-Welsh kingdoms initially included territories further east than the modern borders of Wales; for example Powys for some time included parts of modern Merseyside, Cheshire and the Wirral and Gwent held parts of modern Herefordshire, Worcestershire, Somerset and Gloucestershire, but had largely been confined to the borders of modern Wales by the beginning of the 12th century.\n\nHowever, by the early 1100s, the Anglo-Saxons and Gaels had become the dominant cultural force in most of the formerly Brittonic ruled territory in Britain, and the language and culture of the native Britons was thereafter gradually replaced in those regions, remaining only in Wales, Cornwall], the Isles of Scilly and Brittany, and for a time in parts of Cumbria, Strathclyde, and eastern Galloway.\n\nCornwall (Kernow, Dumnonia) had certainly been largely absorbed by England by the 1050s to early 1100s, although it retained a distinct Brittonic culture and language. Britonia in Spanish Galicia seems to have disappeared by 900 AD.\n\nWales and Brittany remained independent for some considerable time, however, with Brittany finally being absorbed into France during the 1490s, and Wales united with England by the Laws in Wales Acts 1535–1542 in the mid 16th century during the rule of the Tudors (Twdyr), who were themselves of Welsh heritage on the male side.\n\nWales, Cornwall, Brittany and the Isles of Scilly continued to retain a distinct Brittonic culture, identity and language, which they have maintained to the present day. The Welsh and Breton languages remain widely spoken, and the Cornish language, once close to extinction, has experienced a revival since the 20th century. The vast majority of place names and names of geographical features in Wales, Cornwall, the Isles of Scilly and Brittany are Brittonic, and Brittonic family and personal names remain common.\n\nDuring the 19th century, many Welsh farmers migrated to Patagonia in Argentina, forming a community called Y Wladfa, which today consists of over 1,500 Welsh speakers.\n\nIn addition, a Brittonic legacy remains in England, Scotland and Galicia in Spain, in the form of often large numbers of Brittonic place and geographical names. Some examples of geographical Brittonic names survive in the names of rivers, such as the Thames, Clyde, Severn, Tyne, Wye, Exe, Dee, Tamar, Tweed, Avon, Trent, Tambre, Navia, and Forth. Many place names in England and Scotland are of Brittonic rather than Anglo-Saxon or Gaelic origin, such as London, Manchester, Glasgow, Edinburgh, Carlisle, Caithness, Aberdeen, Dundee, Barrow, Exeter, Lincoln, Dumbarton, Brent, Penge, Colchester, Gloucester, Durham, Dover, Kent, Leatherhead, and York.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208396", "title": "AWAKE", "text": "AWAKE\n\nThe AWAKE (Advanced WAKEfield Experiment) facility at CERN is a proof-of-principle experiment, which investigates wakefield plasma acceleration using a proton bunch as a driver, a world-wide first. It aims to accelerate a low-energy witness bunch of electrons from 15-20 MeV to several GeV over a short distance (10m) by creating a high acceleration gradient of several GV/m. Particle accelerators currently in use, like CERN's LHC, use standard or superconductive RF-cavities for acceleration, but they are limited to an acceleration gradient in the order of 100 MV/m.\n\nCircular accelerator machines are not efficient for transporting electrons at high energy due to the large energy loss in synchrotron radiation. Linear accelerators do not have this issue and are therefore better suited for accelerating and transporting electrons at high energies.\n\nAWAKE's high acceleration gradient will allow the construction of a new generation of shorter and less expensive high energy accelerators, representing a big step in the particle accelerators technology, especially for linear electron accelerators.\n\nA plasma consists of positively charged ions and negatively charged free electrons, while remaining macroscopically neutral. If a strong electric field is applied, ions and electrons can be spatially separated. A local electric field is thereby created, thus a charged particle entering a such plasma can be accelerated.\nWhen the driver, the positively charged proton bunch, penetrates the plasma, it attracts the negatively charged plasma electrons, they overshoot and start to oscillate, creating a wakefield. The interaction between the wakefield and a charged particle injected behind the proton can be interpreted as the same as the one between a surfer and a wave. The latter will transfer its energy to the surfer who will thus be accelerated. The wakefield consists of decelerating and accelerating phase, as well as focusing and defocusing phase. The injection position of the electron bunch in the wakefield is thus crucial, since only a fraction (1/4th) of the wakefield is both focused and accelerated, which is needed for the trapping and the acceleration of the electrons.\nAWAKE is the first plasma wakefield experiment using a bunch of protons as a driver. Protons, as e.g. the protons form the CERN SPS, can carry a large amount of energy (~ 400 GeV). Therefore, they can produce wakefields in a plasma for much longer distances than a laser pulse or electron bunch as a driver due to energy depletion.\n\nA plasma can be seen as an ensemble of oscillators with a frequency of the plasma frequency ω=4ne/εm, with n the plasma electron density, m the electron mass and e the elementary charge. To excite those oscillators resonantly, the driver must contain a Fourier component close to the plasma frequency ω. Moreover, the length of the drive bunch should be close to the plasma wavelength λ (=2πc/ω with c is the speed of light). For AWAKE like density (n ≈ 1•10 cm) this corresponds to approximately λ ≈ 1 mm. The length of currently available proton bunches though exceeds this value significantly. AWAKE profits form the seeded self-modulation (SSM) of the proton bunch travelling through the plasma, which divides the long proton bunch into shorts micro-bunches with the length of the plasma wavelength that can drive the wakefield resonantly.\n\nThe AWAKE experiment is installed at CERN, in the former CERN Neutrinos to Gran Sasso (CNGS) facility. This site was selected for its underground location, and it was specifically designed for the use of high-energy proton beams without any significant radiation issue.\n\nThe proton bunches for AWAKE are extracted from the CERN SPS and are transported through an ~800-meter beam-line to the 10-meter long vapor source of AWAKE. The electron witness bunches are injected behind the proton bunch. To detect acceleration of the injected electrons, a dipole magnet is installed after the vapor, bending their path. The larger the electron's energy, the smaller curvature of its path. A scintillation screen then detects accelerated electrons.\n\nThe vapor source contains Rubidium (Rb) vapor which is ionized by a Ti:Sapphire laser. The vapor source is surrounded by an oil bath. By setting the temperature of the oil, the Rb vapor density can be set and kept uniform along the vapor source.\n\nAWAKE uses a laser pulse to ionize the Rb vapor. By propagating the laser pulse co-linearly within the proton bunch, the hard edge of the beam/plasma interaction seeds the self-modulation of the proton bunch, enforcing the grow over the 10m long plasma It also allows to create a phase reference for the start of the wakefield, which is needed to inject the witness bunch at the right phase for trapping and acceleration. The electrons are produced by sending the laser onto an RF-gun photo-cathode.\n\nThe first run lasted from 2016 to 2018. The ten metre-long vapor source was installed 11 February 2016 and the first proton beam was sent through the beam-line and the empty vapor source on 16 June 2016. The first data with a proton bunch inside the plasma was acquired in December 2016.\nOn 26 May 2018, AWAKE accelerated an electron beam for the first time. The beam was accelerated from 19 MeV to 2 GeV over a distance of 10 m.\n\nA second run is planned for 2021 to 2024. The acceleration gradient will be increased and the emittance is expected to shrink. It is planned to increase the electron energy to 10 GeV. After this phase the goal is to increase the energy to at least 50 GeV and provide beams for first applications.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208399", "title": "Heartbeat (novel)", "text": "Heartbeat (novel)\n\nHeartbeat is a 2004 children's book by Sharon Creech, published by HarperCollins in the US and Bloomsbury in the UK. It is aimed at children aged 10 and above.\n\nLike \"Love That Dog\", the book is written in free verse, which alters according to both the subject and the main character's mood.\n\nTwelve-year-old Annie is having a very significant year. Her mother is pregnant, her grandfather is forgetful, her best friend is always moody, and she has a new art assignment-draw an apple each day for one hundred days. She is friends with Max, a mysterious boy that wants to \"escape\"\n\nAdèle Geras of \"The Guardian\" gave the novel a positive review, praising its ability to get straight to the point, and commented that although \"verse novels are risky\", Creech's verse \"will encourage young readers to put their own emotions into words precisely because the form is so much less daunting than thickets of dense prose.\"\n\n\"Heartbeat\" was nominated for the 2005 Carnegie Medal.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208404", "title": "UE Sant Julià", "text": "UE Sant Julià\n\nUnió Esportiva Sant Julià, also known as UE Sant Julià, is an Andorran football club based in the parish of Sant Julià de Lòria. The club currently plays in Primera Divisió.\n\nFounded in 1982 UE Sant Julià is the main football club of the Andorran Southern parish of Sant Julià de Lòria. The team have been playing in the top flight since the foundation of the Andorran Premier League in 1995. Since then UE Sant Julià have won the Andorran championship twice (2004–05 and 2008–09) and are five time Copa Constitució winners (2008, 2010, 2011, 2014 and 2015).\n\nThe club has also appeared in European competitions several times. In the 2000–01 season they were eliminated in the first round of Intertoto Cup by the Swiss team, Lausanne-Sport (aggregate 1–9). They also participated in the Intertoto Cup in 2002–03 and drew 2–2 at home against Coleraine from Northern Ireland, but away from home lost 5–0 to be eliminated from the competition. They suffered an 8–0 defeat at home in the 2004–05 season of the Intertoto Cup against the Serbian team, FK Smederevo and also fell 3–0 in Serbia. In the first qualifying round for the UEFA Cup 2005-06 they lost to Romanian team, Rapid Bucureşti (aggregate 0–10).\n\nIn the first round of the 2006–07 Intertoto Cup they lost to Maribor from Slovenia (aggregate 0–8). In the first round of the 2007–08 Intertoto Cup they lost to the Bosnian squad Slavija Sarajevo 3–2 in Andorra and 3–2 again in Bosnia-Herzegovina (aggregate 4–6). Sant Julià faced Cherno More of Bulgaria in the first qualifying round of the 2008–09 UEFA Cup. They lost 0–9 on aggregate.\n\nFor the 2009–10 season, Sant Julia once again drew a Bulgarian opponent, this time for UEFA Champions League qualification in the second round – Levski Sofia. Before meeting the champions of Bulgaria, Sant Julia eliminated Tre Fiori of San Marino after two 1–1 results, and a penalty shootout. This was the first elimination in\nEuropean tournaments in the history of Andorran football.\n\nTheir dreams came to an end after a 4–0 defeat away at Sofia. The team still played well and managed to keep their goal clean for 49 minutes against the Bulgarian champion. Only 9 players from Aixovall exited the pitch after two Sant Julia players received red cards. They lost 0–5 in the return leg at home.\n\nUE Sant Julià participated in the 2010–11 UEFA Europa League second qualifying round against MYPA and in 2011–12 against Bnei Yehuda, losing on aggregate 0–8 against the Finnish squad and 0–4 against the Israeli squad.\n\nFor the 2014–15 season UE Sant Julià returned to the European competitions playing the first round of the 2014–15 UEFA Europa League against the Serbian Čukarički team losing on aggregate 0–4. UE Sant Julià qualified for the 2015–16 European competitions the following season playing the first round of the 2015–16 UEFA Europa League against the Danish Randers FC team losing on aggregate 0–4.\n\nUE Sant Julià qualified for European competitions in the 2017–18 and 2018–19 season, playing the first round of UEFA Europa League against KF Skënderbeu Korçë from Albania losing on aggregate 0–6, and the following season against Gżira United from Malta losing on aggregate 1–4.\n\nTraditionally orange have been the home colours of UE Sant Julià and the main colour of the team, always referred to as \"l'equip taronja\" (the orange team) or \"el club taronja\" (the orange club), and supporters. Although some seasons the club have worn black and red/orange or all green kits in home matches.\n\nThe club crest is a variation of the coat of arms of Sant Julià de Lòria.\n\n\nThe main rival of UE Sant Julià in Primera Divisió has been always FC Santa Coloma playing in a derby called \"El Clàssic\". Both teams are strong in the Andorran Premier League and since the creation of the championship the clubs have been competing for being the champion of the top flight.\n\nPrimera Divisió\n\nCopa Constitució\n\nSupercopa Andorrana\n\n\"As of July 2018.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2208423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208423", "title": "Chris Bunch", "text": "Chris Bunch\n\nChristopher R. \"Chris\" Bunch (December 22, 1943 – July 4, 2005) was an American science fiction, fantasy and television writer, who wrote and co-wrote about thirty novels.\n\nBorn in Fresno, California, he collaborated with Allan Cole on a series of books involving a hero named in a galactic empire. Bunch served in Vietnam as a patrol commander. He also wrote for \"Rolling Stone\" and was a correspondent for \"Stars and Stripes\". He died in his hometown of Ilwaco, Washington, after a long battle with a lung ailment.\n\n\n\nDragonmaster is an action trilogy following the life and exploits of Hal Kailas, a peasant who left home at an early age. During his early years Hal must work as a casual laborer. His dream is to fly dragons, so he joins a traveling troupe who give rides on dragons as entertainment from town to town. Hal is away from his home country and his king, Asir. When war breaks out, he is drafted into the army as an unwilling soldier. However, he does his best and works his way through the ranks of the army and society with his heroic exploits. Dragons are mainly wild and untamed creatures that are brought into the war, while Hal and others devise new and more damaging ways to use the dragons against their enemies. This tale is told in the first two books, which contain bloody action throughout. The third book covers life after the war, the difficulties ex-soldiers face, and how Hal deals with it.\n\n\n\n\nAn outlined novel in the Star Risk, Ltd. series, \"The Gangster Conspiracy\" (2007), was finished by Bunch's friend Steve Perry and his son, Dal Perry.\n\n\n\"Corsair\" follows the tale of Gareth Radnor, who goes to live with his rich uncle, after the death of his parents at the hands of the evil Lynathi slavers. He has to leave the city after a prank goes wrong and someone dies. He quickly makes a life for himself at sea but always longs to revenge his parents and the other villagers. When an opportunity comes, he takes it and makes a name for himself and a fortune as a pirate, and gains public support for his revenge on the Lynathi.\nHis two childhood friends, and two more from when he lived with his uncle in the city of Ticao, travel with him on his adventures; one is Cosyra, his love interest.\n\n\nKnown as The Sten Chronicles (or sometimes the \"Sten Adventures\"), this series of books is set in the far future of mankind. While the main attraction of the series was the action and understated humor, the series was actually a political critique. It had seemed to Bunch and Cole that entirely too many science fiction authors were enamored with monarchies and their consequent fascist (although benevolent) ideals. They wanted to write a series to show the realities of politics and power and to place a working-class man into this series, letting the reader see through his eyes and watch as he grows to be a real and realistic hero.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208424", "title": "Sequah Medicine Company", "text": "Sequah Medicine Company\n\nSequah Medicine Company began in 1887 as the Sequah Medicine Co Ltd selling patent medicines such as prairie flower and Indian oil using traveling salesman, known as Sequahs. The traveling salesmen were quack doctors. The original Sequah was William Henry Hartley, who sold supposed Native American remedies in Great Britain and Ireland. The successful pitch quickly drew imitators, to the annoyance of Hartley. One such example is Peter Alexander Gordon, who went under the pseudonym James Kaspar. Gordon sold the Sequah Patent Medicine in Great Britain, Ireland, the West Indies and North America and South Africa.\n\nSequah products were sold using the device of a traveling medicine show. These shows consisted of a warm-up act of music and other entertainments which attracted a crowd in order for the traveling salesman to begin his pitch. The British version, introduced in 1890, was made up of a fairground steam organ. The Government soon declared the practice of selling patent medicines in such a fashion illegal. The company went into liquidation in 1895 and was liquidated on March 26, 1909.\n"}
{"id": "2208456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208456", "title": "Coles Sports and Recreation Center", "text": "Coles Sports and Recreation Center\n\nThe Coles Sports and Recreation Center was the main athletic facility at New York University, located at 181 Mercer Street in New York City, in the U.S. state of New York. The building was named in honor of Jerome S. Coles, an alumnus and benefactor of NYU. The facilities accommodated a wide range of individual and group recreational sports and fitness activities, including over 130 different courses at various skill levels serving 10,000 participants, as well as club sports and an intramural program enjoyed by approximately 3,500 students. Coles was renovated with a new dehumidifcation system in 1999 to solve problems of corrosion.\n\nUp to 3,000 members used the facility daily, while 1,900 spectators could be seated in the fieldhouse bleachers and 230 could be seated in the natatorium bleachers. The Coles Sports Center was barrier-free and accessible to physically challenged persons.\n\nColes was also the home to most of New York University's NCAA Division III intercollegiate teams. Some teams that competed in the facility include: men's and women's basketball, diving, swimming, volleyball, and men's wrestling. The fencing team also used Coles facilities, but participated in NCAA Division I.\n\nClub sports housed at Coles Sports and Recreation Center included badminton, cheerleading, martial arts, squash, racquetball, and waterpolo.\n\nColes was closed in February 2016, and will be demolished as part of the NYU 2031 plan. \n\nThe Center also has played host to the following events: NCAA Basketball National Championships, NCAA Regional Wrestling Championships, ECAC Regional Basketball Championships, Metropolitan Wrestling Championships, International Wrestling events, International Fencing events, University Athletic Association Championships and National Collegiate Tae Kwon Do Championships. In 1994-95, Coles hosted the Intercollegiate Fencing Association Championships and the UAA Wrestling Championship. In 1998, the UAA Women's Volleyball Round Robin took place at Coles, and the women's basketball team hosted the Sweet Sixteen and the Final Four during the NCAA Division III Women's Basketball Championships.\n\nThe following facilities were open to all students:\n"}
{"id": "2208458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208458", "title": "Edaphology", "text": "Edaphology\n\nEdaphology (from Greek , \"edaphos\", \"ground\", \"-logia\") is one of two main divisions of soil science, the other being pedology. Edaphology is concerned with the influence of soils on living things, particularly plants. Edaphology includes the study of how soil influences humankind's use of land for plant growth as well as people's overall use of the land. General subfields within edaphology are agricultural soil science (known by the term agrology in some regions) and environmental soil science. (Pedology deals with pedogenesis, soil morphology, and soil classification.)\n\nIn Russia, edaphology is considered equivalent to pedology, but is recognized to have an applied sense consistent with agrophysics and agrochemistry outside Russia.\n\nXenophon (431–355 BC), and Cato (234–149 BC), were early edaphologists. Xenophon noted the beneficial effect of turning a cover crop into the earth. Cato wrote De Agri Cultura (\"On Farming\") which recommended tillage, crop rotation and the use of legumes in the rotation to build soil nitrogen. He also devised the first soil capability classification for specific crops.\n\nJan Baptist van Helmont (1577–1644) performed a famous experiment, growing a willow tree in a pot of soil and supplying only rainwater for five years. The weight gained by the tree was greater than the weight loss of the soil. He concluded that the willow was made of water. Although only partly correct, his experiment reignited interest in edaphology.\n\nAgricultural soil science is the application of soil chemistry, physics, and biology dealing with the production of crops. In terms of soil chemistry, it places particular emphasis on plant nutrients of importance to farming and horticulture, especially with regard to soil fertility and fertilizer components. \n\nPhysical edaphology is strongly associated with crop irrigation and drainage. \n\nSoil husbandry is a strong tradition within agricultural soil science. Beyond preventing soil erosion and degradation in cropland, soil husbandry seeks to sustain the agricultural soil resource though the use of soil conditioners and cover crops.\n\nEnvironmental soil science studies our interaction with the pedosphere on beyond crop production. Fundamental and applied aspects of the field address vadose zone functions, septic drain field site assessment and function, land treatment of wastewater, stormwater, erosion control, soil contamination with metals and pesticides, remediation of contaminated soils, restoration of wetlands, soil degradation, and environmental nutrient management. It also studies soil in the context of land-use planning, global warming, and acid rain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208468", "title": "Sonic Advance 3", "text": "Sonic Advance 3\n\nThe game is a fast-paced 2D platformer that takes place across seven zones, each divided into three acts and a boss fight. It allows one or two players to control any two of the five characters; each one has different abilities that allow players varying access to parts of levels. While the graphics are mainly 2D, the game features some 3D rotation effects. It sold quickly upon release and received positive reviews from critics, who praised its gameplay and aesthetics, though they were more divided on the team-up dynamic. The game was later released for the Wii U's Virtual Console in Japan in May 2016.\n\nSimilarly to \"Sonic Advance 1\" and \"2\" before it, \"Advance 3\" is a fast-paced 2D platformer. The player controls one of five characters simultaneously with a second one as a sidekick; alternately, a second player joins and one controls each character. The two characters run and jump through a series of seven levels, destroying robots along the way. The player collects rings in levels and boss battles as a form of health: upon being hit by an enemy or harmful obstacle, the player's rings will scatter and can be recollected. Being hit while carrying no rings, being crushed by an obstacle, falling into a bottomless pit, drowning underwater, or running out of time causes death. When losing a life, the duo will return to the checkpoint or at the start of the act. If all lives are lost, the player receives a game over.\n\nThe levels contain features like vertical loops, springs, and rails that the player can grind on. Each level is divided into three acts, punctuated by a boss fight with Doctor Eggman at the end; all three acts, the boss fight, and two minigames that grant the player extra lives are bound by a hub world. Within each act, the player collects Chao creatures; finding 10 in all 3 acts in one zone grants the player access to a special stage, where a Chaos Emerald can be found. Collecting all seven Chaos Emeralds, which can be done after completion of the main campaign, allows the player to fight an extra final boss for the game's true ending.\n\nThe player can select any two-member permutation of its five playable characters: Sonic the Hedgehog, Tails, Amy Rose, Knuckles the Echidna, and Cream the Rabbit, provided the two desired characters have been unlocked; only Sonic and Tails are available at the beginning, while the other three must be rescued from Eggman over the course of the game. Each character has a unique ability: Sonic can perform a spinning attack in mid-air, Tails can fly using his two tails as a propeller, Amy can smash enemies with her hammer, Knuckles can glide long distances and climb walls, and Cream can fly using her ears as wings and attack enemies with her Chao friend, Cheese. The second player character can also give powers to the first by pressing the R button; for example, pressing and holding R while Tails is the sidekick blasts both characters into the air. In addition, the second character will collect rings and destroy enemies the first has not. Outside the main game, there are two battle modes for two to four players, in which any of the characters can be selected: racing and Chao collecting.\n\nPrior to the game's events, Doctor Eggman builds a robotic assistant named Gemerl, using parts from the robot Emerl who was destroyed in \"Sonic Battle\". Eggman attempts an experiment using the Chaos Emeralds to perform the Chaos Control technique, but it goes awry and tears the world apart. This action separates Sonic and Tails from Amy, Knuckles, and Cream, all of whom Eggman finds and captures, intending to create a segment of his impending empire on each chunk of the planet. Sonic and Tails travel through the game's seven levels to recapture their friends and retrieve the Emeralds.\n\nThe final boss fight takes place at the Altar Emerald temple. If the player defeats Eggman there without having all seven Chaos Emeralds, Eggman and Gemerl escape and fall off the edge of the temple. Peace is restored to the world, and Omochao snaps a picture of the five heroes. However, the game alerts the player that the Emeralds must still be collected for the true ending. If the player defeats Eggman at the temple with all the Chaos Emeralds, Gemerl stops running away with Eggman and attacks Sonic, causing the Emeralds to scatter. Gemerl uses them to take on a giant, orb-shaped form, but Sonic also uses their power to attain his Super Sonic form. With Eggman's help, Super Sonic destroys Gemerl. Tails later finds Gemerl's broken body on a beach, repairing and reprogramming it. The game ends as Cream plays with the now non-aggressive Gemerl at her mother Vanilla's house.\n\n\"Sonic Advance 3\" was published by Sega in Japan and THQ in North America, while both companies co-published the game in Europe. Like \"Advance 1\" and \"2\", its development was shared by Dimps and Sega subsidiary Sonic Team since the latter was understaffed on employees familiar with the Game Boy Advance hardware. Yuji Naka, then President of Sonic Team, had limited involvement in the development of \"Sonic Advance 3\", and he conceived of the team-up dynamic. While the game is fundamentally 2D, it features some Mode 7 3D rotation effects. THQ announced the game in a press release on September 11, 2003. The game was later exhibited at E3 2004.\n\n\"Sonic Advance 3\" received positive reviews from critics, with respective scores of 79% and 80% at review aggregators Metacritic and GameRankings. It later won Handheld Game of the Year at the 2004 Golden Joystick Awards and sold over 100,000 copies in the United Kingdom alone.\n\nCritics gave mixed opinions to the team-up dynamic. Nich Maragos from 1UP.com celebrated that Sonic Team had \"finally [come] up with a way of introducing teamwork and variance between characters that doesn't overwhelm Sonic's bread-and-butter gameplay.\" Maragos singled this out as the main divider between \"Advance 3\" and \"Sonic Heroes\", a game that he found surprisingly linear in level design considering that it, unlike \"Advance 3\", was in 3D. Maragos, GameSpot's Frank Provo, IGN's Craig Harris, and \"Game Informer\"s Lisa Mason appreciated the increase in replayability Sonic's friends brought. However, Mason, as well as reviewer Stardingo from \"GamePro\", thought that they played too much like Sonic and did not add much to the experience. Darryl Vassar of GameSpy took a different point of criticism: he acknowledged the presence of genuinely different character abilities, but perceived that their only purpose was to find Chao, whom he called \"pointless\". Maragos noted that the \"mid-air trick\" system from \"Advance 2\" was optional in \"Advance 3\", but spoke positively about its usefulness in locating \"hidden areas\". Harris argued that such varying team abilities contributed to occasional \"cheapness\" in the level design, because \"most of the characters have absolutely no defense when hopping off items like springboards\".\n\nHowever, the gameplay was mostly well-received otherwise. Vassar acclaimed the level design: he both called the levels \"enormous and fast\" and praised the slower, smaller sections for \"keeping the levels distinct and adding short interludes to the constant running and loops.\" Harris also praised the \"clever\" level design. However, Mason found it \"simplistic\", while Stardingo saw \"repetition\" in the typical formula. Maragos criticized the bipolar difficulty of the bosses and some minor control issues. Vassar, however, appreciated the return from \"Advance 2\"s running-based boss battles to more traditional ones. Further praise from Harris, conversely, went to the multiplayer mode and—along with Stardingo—to the presence of a hub world, which Harris and Stardingo thought gave the game structure.\n\nThe game's aesthetics were also well received. Provo stated that \"in terms of graphics and sound, \"Sonic Advance 3\" is on par with the best that companies like Nintendo and Konami have had to offer this year\". He specifically complimented the character animations, simulations of underwater waves, and in-depth background effects. Vassar praised \"Advance 3\" for continuing \"Advance 1\" and \"2\"s emulation of the \"colorful, angular, and stylized look\" of the original \"Sonic the Hedgehog\" for the Sega Genesis, as well as its \"twangy, upbeat tunes\". Stardingo thought similarly overall but criticized the \"garish\" themes of the level Toy Kingdom.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208485", "title": "Ådalen 31", "text": "Ådalen 31\n\nÅdalen 31 (; released in the United States as Adalen Riots) is a 1969 Swedish drama film directed by Bo Widerberg. It depicts the 1931 Ådalen shootings, in which Swedish military forces opened fire against labour demonstrators in the Swedish sawmill district of Ådalen killing five people, including a young girl.\n\nThe film was X-rated in the United States. It won the Grand Prize of the Jury at the Cannes Film Festival and was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film.\n\nIn 1931, the working-class family Andersson of Ådalen are taking part in a massive sympathy strike for workers in the town Marma. Harald, the father of the family, catches fish and manages to support his family while maintaining a good mood. Kjell, the oldest son, works at the office of the local sawmill manager, and is taught about classical music, impressionism and French pronunciation by the manager's wife. He plays in a jazz band with his friend Nisse with whom he also discusses things like girls, erogenous zones and hypnosis. As spring commences, the manager's daughter Anna comes home for school holiday. She and Kjell fall in love, and she becomes pregnant with his child.\n\nWhen the sawmill is to deliver a big order to America, strikebreakers are called in from other towns. The local strikers become furious and police has to be called in to protect the strikebreakers. Still they are attacked by an angry crowd while working at the Sandviken wharf outside Kramfors. Some are thrown into the water, while others are beaten bloody. Harald takes care of an injured strikebreaker, but is confronted by a group of angry workers. He tries to argue for them to calm down and rely on discussion instead of violence, but they do not agree with his stance.\n\nBecause of the turbulence, military troops arrive to ensure safety. It is also decided by the County Administrative Board that the strikebreakers should be prohibited from working, but this information doesn't reach the upset locals, who decide to march to the locality where the strikebreakers are staying to get rid of them. When the military troops fail in persuading the participants to stop, they open fire.\n\nFive people are killed and five more are injured. Among the dead are Harald Andersson, Nisse and a young girl who had only been a bystander. Around the same time, Anna returns from Stockholm where she has had an abortion arranged by her mother. When Kjell is told about the abortion by Anna's father, he interprets it as if he isn't accepted within the bourgeois idyll.\n\nA general strike is proclaimed. While Kjell is occupied as a strike guard, he meets the man who had previously argued with his father. The man claims that the father wasn't innocent, since he had helped to divide the workers. Not until now they were united. Kjell does not agree, instead claiming that education is the key to a better society. Slowly the Andersson family recover from the loss, and eventually the factories open again.\n\n\n\"Beautiful yet uninspired\" was the assessment of Pauline Kael. \"Lush and lyrical as it is, it’s fundamentally didactic, with stereotyped social-realist characters. And because Widerberg seems to work best in vignettes and to have architectural problems when he’s working on such a large scale, his argument isn’t clear; he makes the little points but not the big ones. So when the violence erupts, we don’t really understand its political significance – we’re left 'appreciating' it, in a rather embarrassed way, for its pictorial values.\"\n\nWiderberg won the award for Best Direction, and actor Roland Hedlund won for Best Actor at the 6th Guldbagge Awards. Internationally, the film won the Special Grand Prize of the Jury at the 1969 Cannes Film Festival and was nominated for both the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film and the Golden Globe Award for Best Foreign Language Film. It won the prestigious Grand Prix of the Belgian Film Critics Association.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208491", "title": "VA Boston Healthcare System", "text": "VA Boston Healthcare System\n\nThe VA Boston Healthcare System is a set of hospitals run by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs in the Greater Boston area. It comprises nine campuses, with three major medical centers in Jamaica Plain, West Roxbury, and Brockton.\n\nThe Jamaica Plain building was the site of a great deal of research in neuropsychology. Edith Kaplan, Norman Geschwind and Harold Goodglass developed many neuropsychological tests here to describe and treat aphasia along with other psychological problems. After it was retired as an inpatient facility, many of the rooms were converted into offices that now support researchers from Harvard and Boston University.\n\nCurrent research activities include the Massachusetts Veterans Epidemiology Research and Information Center (MAVERIC), the Behavioral Science Division of the National Center for PTSD, the Women's Health Sciences Division of the National Center for PTSD, and a Geriatric Research Education and Clinical Center GRECC.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208503", "title": "Todd Strange", "text": "Todd Strange\n\nTodd Strange (born June, 1966) is an American musician who played bass live on the first Down album \"NOLA\" and with Crowbar.\n\nForming Crowbar with Kirk Windstein (Down), Matt Thomas and Craig Nunenmacher (Black Label Society), they released the best-selling albums of the band's discography. This included the Crowbar self-titled LP with the hits \"All I Had (I Gave)\", \"Existence is Punishment\", \"No Quarter\" (by Led Zeppelin) and \"I Have Failed\", produced by Phil Anselmo. By 1994, Anselmo put his band Pantera to the side and resurrected Down which was sidelined for Pantera in the late 1990s. The band released NOLA in reference to the band's hometown, New Orleans, Louisiana, and played 13 shows. Eventually, the album sold 500,000 copies and was certified Gold by the RIAA. Soon after, Anselmo returned to Pantera and Crowbar continued, and the two bands partnered up for tours in 1996. As a result, Strange, Windstein and the rest of Crowbar appear in Pantera's \"Home Videos 3\" in the credits, and Windstein and the band are seen in scenes including the notorious clip of Windstein dressed up as the Hulk. This event is also included in Crowbar's 1996 home video \"Like Broken\", but contains slightly different footage.\n\nBy the time Down reformed and Crowbar recorded \"Sonic Excess in its Purest Form\", Strange dropped completely out of music. For several years afterwards, he worked as a machine repair tech in River Ridge, Louisiana.\n\nIn June 2016, after Crowbar's bassist Jeff Golden was fired from Crowbar, Windstein announced Strange's return to the band.\n\nIn 2018, Todd Strange took a break from Crowbar to focus on spending more time with his family. Although, He is still a band member for Crowbar. Shane Wesley would participate on filling in for Todd as a substitute bass player for Crowbar.\n\nStrange is currently married to Tessa Terror from the band Tricounty Terror and resides on the Crazy S Ranch south of Dallas, Texas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208504", "title": "John II, Duke of Alençon", "text": "John II, Duke of Alençon\n\nJohn II of Alençon (2 March 1409, Château d'Argentan – 8 September 1476, Paris) was the son of John I of Alençon and his wife Marie of Brittany, Lady of La Guerche (1391–1446), daughter of John V, Duke of Brittany and Joan of Navarre. He succeeded his father as Duke of Alençon and Count of Perche as a minor in 1415, after the latter's death at the Battle of Agincourt. He is best known as a general in the Last Phase of the Hundred Years' War and for his role as a comrade-in-arms of Joan of Arc, who called him \"le beau duc\" (\"the fair duke\"/\"the gentle duke\").\n\nHe saw action at the age of fifteen at the Battle of Verneuil on 17 August 1424, and was captured by the English. He was held prisoner until 1429 at Le Crotoy, paying 200,000 saluts d'or for his ransom. He sold all he possessed to the English, and his fief of Fougères to the Duke of Brittany. After Alençon's capture, the Duke of Bedford, regent of Henry VI, took control of his duchy. He would not regain Alençon until 1449, but remained the titular duke in the eyes of the French crown. When he left prison, Jean d'Alençon was called \"the poorest man in France\".\n\nBefore his capture at Verneuil, he had married in 1424, at the Chateau de Blois, Jeanne of Valois, daughter of Charles, duc d'Orléans and Isabella of Valois, but she died in Angers in 1432, having given him no children.\n\nIn April 1429, not long after his release, the duke heard about Joan of Arc, who had come to Charles VII at Chinon, promising to liberate France from the English, asking that he send her with an army to lift the Siege of Orléans. Alençon came eagerly to Chinon and very quickly became her good friend and most prominent supporter among the princes of the blood. After she raised the siege alongside Jean de Dunois and La Hire among others, Alençon arrived as official commander of the French army and played a major role in the liberation of the rest of the Loire Valley. He left to fight elsewhere after the end of the campaign in September 1429, preferring to attack the English around his own domains in Normandy. Upon Joan's martyrdom on 30 May 1431, when she was burnt at the stake by the English at Rouen, Alençon was one of the people most devastated by the loss.\n\nOn 30 April 1437, at the Chateau L'Isle-Jourdain, he married Marie of Armagnac (c. 1420 – 25 July 1473, Cloister Mortagne-au-Perche), daughter of Jean IV of Armagnac.\n\nJohn was discontented with the Treaty of Arras, having hoped to make good his poverty through the spoliation of the Burgundians. He fell out with Charles VII, and took part in a revolt in 1439–40, (the Praguerie) but was forgiven, having been a lifelong friend of the king. He took part in the invasion of Normandy in 1449, but he had unwisely entered into correspondence with the English since 1440. (He had also accepted the Order of the Golden Fleece at this time.) Shortly after testifying at the \"rehabilitation trial\" of Joan of Arc in 1456, he was arrested by Jean de Dunois and imprisoned at Aigues-Mortes. In 1458, he was convicted of lèse-majesté and sentenced to death, but the sentence was commuted and he was imprisoned at Loches. He was released by Louis XI upon terms at his accession in 1461, but he refused to keep them and was imprisoned again. He was tried a second time before the Parlement of Paris and sentenced to death again on 18 July 1474, and his Duchy was confiscated. However, the sentence was not carried out, and he died in prison in the Louvre in 1476.\n\nHe had two children by his second wife, Marie:\n\nHe also had several illegitimate children:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208522", "title": "Joseph Henry Nettlefold", "text": "Joseph Henry Nettlefold\n\nJoseph Henry Nettlefold (19 September 1827 – 22 November 1881) was a British industrialist, the Nettlefold in Guest, Keen and Nettlefolds.\n\nHe was born in London to John Sutton Nettlefold who, in 1854, dispatched him to manage the business of Nettlefold and Chamberlain in Birmingham with his brother Edward John and cousin Joseph Chamberlain. The Chamberlains left the firm in 1874 and Edward John died in 1878, leaving effective control of Birmingham manufacturing and engineering to Joseph, and his younger brother Frederick Nettlefold as chairman in London. Nettlefolds Ltd was launched as a limited company in 1880 and Nettlefold, by a series of astute mergers and acquisitions, went on to establish a virtual monopoly in the British wood-screw market.\n\nNettlefold was a sober man whose principal interests were technical. He became a member of the Institution of Mechanical Engineers in 1860.\n\nThough both his parents were Unitarian, Nettlefold married a Roman Catholic, Mary Maria Seaborne (born 1835), in 1867. None of their three daughters went on to have any connection with the family business.\n\nNettlefold died of apoplexy at his Scottish residence, \"Allean House\", near Pitlochry, Perthshire. He bequeathed several paintings by David Cox to the Birmingham Museum & Art Gallery, on condition that it open on Sundays. He left a further £1000 to the King's Heath and Moseley Institute.\n\nSometime after Nettlefold's death, \"Nettlefold & Co.\" was acquired by Arthur Keen's \"Guest, Keen & Co.\" to create \"Guest, Keen and Nettlefold\" which is, , still trading. For many years, this company has been better known as GKN plc\n"}
{"id": "2208526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208526", "title": "KOF: Maximum Impact", "text": "KOF: Maximum Impact\n\nKOF: Maximum Impact is a fighting game developed by SNK subsidiary Noise Factory and published by SNK Playmore for the PlayStation 2 in 2004–2005. An enhanced version was released for the Xbox under the title \"KOF Maximum Impact: Maniax\". \n\nMarketed as a spin-off of SNK's major fighting series \"The King of Fighters\", whence many of its characters originate, \"KOF: Maximum Impact\" also contains elements of the \"Fatal Fury\" and \"Art of Fighting\" series. \"KOF: Maximum Impact\" is the first 3D fighter made by SNK since 1990s era's \"\" and lastly, \"\" for the PlayStation. The game was followed by \"\".\n\nWhile the version released in the U.S. featured an English dub that was met with much derision (with IGN's Jeremy Dunham going so far as to label it \"piss poor\"), further releases for the Xbox and European PS2 add a choice of English and Japanese language options. The Xbox version also includes an online match mode where matches can be fought between players via Xbox Live.\n\nUnlike the 2D games from the series, \"Maximum Impact\" breaks the team system, causing all the fighters to fight alone. The story mode is experienced as a single character through the \"Mephistopheles Fighting Tournament\". For most characters, this consists of fighting six characters, with Duke's cronie / Consigliere Hyena announcing the next opponent between matches. For the final match, one faces Duke himself. For a few \"featured\" characters (Alba Meira, Soiree Meira, and Lien Neville), the story is more intricate and fleshed out.\n\nThe gameplay is similar to those of \"Tekken\" and \"Bloody Roar\" series, such as having a more combo command moves system and players being capable of executing juggle combos freely.\n\nIn Versus Mode, a single match (be it a one-on-one fight or a 3 vs. 3 battle) is fought against either the computer or another player. In Mission Mode, the player is faced with four levels of ten missions each. Each mission has settings and conditions to be completed. Most of the game's unlockables come through this mode. In Time Attack Mode, the player has to defeat a number of characters as quickly as possible. The online mode is available only on the Xbox version, and features online matchmaking for play between two players.\n\nAddis was the most powerful gang in Southtown. Its leader, a man known only as Fate, was considered a modern-day Robin Hood to the poor and downtrodden. He himself had adopted two twin brothers, Alba and Soiree Meira, and trained them to be successors to his legacy. Six months before the in-game events, Fate is killed by , the leader of the up-and-coming Mephistopheles gang. Duke then proceeds to exploit the poor to serve his thirst for power.\n\nIn the present day, the \"Mephistopheles Fighting Tournament\" is beginning, with the venue being all of Southtown. The participants (minus the Meira Brothers and Lien) believe that the tournament is being sponsored by a charity organization known as the Metatron Foundation, but they soon learn that its true sponsor is the Mephistopheles gang. Alba, Soiree and Lien are contacted directly by Hyena, so they know Metatron has nothing to do with this.\n\n\"KOF: Maximum Impact\" has twenty playable characters. Six additional characters make their debut in this game, and most of the remaining roster is inherited from \"The King of Fighters\" series. One noteworthy exception to the rule is Rock Howard, brought in from the most recent \"Fatal Fury\" chapter, \"\".\n\nEach character features at least one alternative costume. Some alternate costumes are radically different from the defaults, such as Terry's Garou: Mark of the Wolves look and Clark's professional wrestler persona. In addition to the alternate costumes, characters can be modified with unlockable \"rigging models,\" which add details to the available costumes, such as a wolf mask for Terry or a party hat and banner for Seth.\n\n\nFrom \"The King of Fighters\":\n\nFrom \"Fatal Fury\":\n\nFrom \"Art of Fighting\":\n\nFrom \"Ikari Warriors\":\n\nFrom \"Psycho Soldier\":\n\nSeveral of the new characters from the game were designed to be the counterparts of other \"KOF\" characters. Both Meira brothers were initially conceptualized to be the counterparts to \"Fatal Fury\" stars, Terry and Andy Bogard, given the game's setting is the same as their predecessors. Lien conceptually began as a contrast to fellow \"KOF\" participant Mai Shiranui. While Mai represents a \"sexy and beautiful \"kunoichi\"\", Lien represents another counterpart: the \"sexy Western femme fatale\". Her outfits are purposely designed to be \"tight and constricting\" to contrast Mai's clothing, which is made to allow for easy and quick movements. To further the contrast between the two assassins, efforts were made to make Lien more serious and darker than Mai, despite being one of the heroines in the series. Similar to how Lien contrasts Mai, Mignon was designed to be the rival to Athena. Her magical powers were created to counter Athena's \"Psycho Powers\", which is interpreted by Falcoon to be akin to witchcraft.\n\nOriginally, Kim Kaphwan was going to enter the first entry of the \"Maximum Impact\" series under the pseudonym \"Mr. Taekwondo\" – in the same fashion as \"Art of Fighting\"'s Mr. Karate. Due to veteran designers' complaints and other difficulties at the time, it was finally decided to leave Kim out of the game's lineup but add another character like him to replace his absence. While several other characters were considered for the spot – including other SNK characters such as Jhun Hoon, May Lee, and \"Buriki One\" character Seo Yong Song – a fellow developer voiced interest in creating another female Taekwondo fighter with the same \"professional\" manner as Kim, which eventually formed the basis for Chae Lim.\n\nPrior to its release, \"KOF: Maximum Impact\" was a finalist from GameSpot's \"Best of E3 2004\" in the category Best Fighting Game. However, it lost to \"\". Ben Herman, president from SNK Playmore USA, commented that although he received complaints about the English voices for the game, \"Maximum Impact\" sold over 100,000 units as of May 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208541", "title": "Nalu (drink)", "text": "Nalu (drink)\n\nNalu is an energy drink produced by The Coca-Cola Company, sold in the Benelux. The drink is available in five flavours, and contains carbonated water, sucrose and sweeteners, fruit juices, caffeine and B vitamins. The drink was launched in 2002. Its name stems from the Hawaiian word nalu, meaning \"wave\" or \"surf\"; the surf theme is maintained in the branding of the drink.\n"}
{"id": "2208561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208561", "title": "Mauss", "text": "Mauss\n\nMauss is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208563", "title": "John Sutton Nettlefold", "text": "John Sutton Nettlefold\n\nJohn Sutton Nettlefold (23 September 1792 – 12 April 1866) was a British industrialist and entrepreneur.\n\nNettlefold was born in London. Nettlefold was a Unitarian; he married a co-religionist, Martha Chamberlain (1794–1866). Hers was a family of Birmingham manufacturers and politicians: her brother's son, Joseph Chamberlain (1836–1914), was a radical Liberal and a leading imperialist.\n\nThey had three sons: Edward John Nettlefold (1820–1878), Joseph Henry Nettlefold (1827–1881) and Frederick Nettlefold (1833–1913). One of Edward John's sons was named after him, John Sutton Nettlefold, who was a social reformer.\n\nIn 1823, he opened a hardware store at 54 High Holborn. This was followed in 1826 by a workshop to make woodscrews based in Sunbury-on-Thames. The Sunbury factory was powered by a waterwheel and Nettlefold saw the importance of motive power when he took advantage of steam power in a new factory in Baskerville Place, off Broad Street, Birmingham. He renamed the business Nettlefold and Sons, Ltd., and it expanded rapidly in London and Birmingham. \n\nIn 1854, Nettlefold acquired the opportunity to purchase a licence to manufacture to a U.S. patent for a novel woodscrew. The licence, and the establishment of a new factory, demanded an investment of £ 30,000. Nettlefold sought and obtained the involvement of his brother-in-law as equal partner for an investment of £10,000 and the two established a factory in Smethwick, leaving its management to their sons, Edward John and Joseph Henry Nettlefold, and Joseph Chamberlain.\n\nIn later years, the management of the partnership, Nettlefold and Chamberlain, was passed to Joseph and Frederick Nettlefold, and later was absorbed into Guest, Keen and Nettlefolds, now GKN plc, a multinational engineering company headquartered in Redditch.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208569", "title": "List of golfers with most Champions Tour major championship wins", "text": "List of golfers with most Champions Tour major championship wins\n\nThis article lists all the men who have won senior golf's major championships. The tallies do not include wins in the Senior PGA Championship and the Senior British Open before they became senior majors. The five majors are shown in the order in which they are currently played each year. There is a complete list of results in the senior majors article. The list is up to date through the 2019 season.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208573", "title": "Starvation Island", "text": "Starvation Island\n\nStarvation Island (also known as Mohawk Island) on the Navesink River in Rumson, New Jersey was a small (approximately 2.5 acre) island located between Sea Bright and Barley Point. Early in the 20th century, it was inhabited by Red Bank oysterman George Frick and also fisherman Thomas Schwindt, and then other families began to build bungalows. At various times from the early 1900s to the 1970s there were between 10 and 13 bungalows. The families who stayed there (the Schwindt's, the Knop's, the Ruland's, the Wyballie's, the Stevenson's, the Humphry's, the Healey's, the Basse's, the Blade's, the Katire's, the Fagan's to name a few) would arrive in early summer and stay until early September. They referred to it as \"The Island\". There was no electricity or running water. The only way to reach the island was by boat, or at low tide you could make the trek from where Navesink Avenue dead-ended into the river (or as the islanders called it \"the end of the road\"). The families lived with the bare necessities and enjoyed the island life, which included clamming, crabbing, fishing, boating, fires at night, and all the simple things that make life great. The bungalows burned in a fire in 1973, the source of which is not clear.\n"}
{"id": "2208574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208574", "title": "Guerrilla War (video game)", "text": "Guerrilla War (video game)\n\nGuerrilla War, released in Japan as , is an overhead run and gun game produced by SNK. Originally released for arcades in 1987 as a coin-operated arcade game, \"Guerrilla War\" was later ported to Amstrad CPC, Apple II, Commodore 64, NES, PlayStation Network, and ZX Spectrum. \n\nGuerrilla War followed the adventures of two unnamed rebel commandos (Che Guevara and Fidel Castro in the Japanese version) as they raid an unnamed Caribbean Island in order to free it from the rule of an unnamed tyrannical dictator. Along the way the players vanquish hordes of enemy soldiers while attempting to rescue hostages (with large score reductions for any hostages killed in the crossfire), collecting weapons from troopers and operating tanks.\n\nThe arcade version, released by SNK in 1987, followed the format of \"Ikari Warriors\" (1986). Using eight-way rotary joysticks, the game allowed players to move their character in one direction while rotating the joystick in order to shoot in another.\n\nThe game was moderately successful, and spawned ports onto home video game systems. Data East released home editions on the PC, Commodore 64 and Apple II, while Imagine Software published the Amstrad CPC and ZX Spectrum ports in Europe. SNK published itself a version for the NES/Famicom 8-bit console. Because of the limits of the home platforms, the home versions did not have the rotating joysticks. Both the arcade and home console versions were included on the SNK 40th Anniversary Collection for Nintendo Switch, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One.\n\nThe NES version's two-player simultaneous play, unlimited continues, and frantic action gave it an edge over its arcade predecessor. It received a perfect 5-star rating in the book \"Ultimate Nintendo: Guide to the NES Library 1985–1995\" and is also available on PlayStation Network. This version featured Box cover art by Marc Ericksen, who was also responsible for the cover illustration for SNK's own \"\" and \"\".\n\nAs the original title indicates, the game is based on the exploits of revolutionary Che Guevara, and the defeat of the Batista regime in Cuba in the late 1950s. In addition, player 2's character was Fidel Castro. Castro as he appears in this game is ranked fifth in \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\"’s list of the top ten video game politicians. Nevertheless, fearing anti-Communist sentiments in the West, SNK did a localisation of the game's dialogue and instruction manual for its North American and European releases. The version of \"Guevara\" released for the Japanese Famicom is a sought-after item for many video game collectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208575", "title": "Millennium (Backstreet Boys album)", "text": "Millennium (Backstreet Boys album)\n\nMillennium is the third studio album (second in the US) by American vocal pop group, the Backstreet Boys, released on May 18, 1999 by Jive Records. It was a highly anticipated follow-up to both their US debut album, and their second internationally released album. It was their first album to be released in both the US and internationally in the same form, at the same time.\n\nIn the United States, it holds the record for most shipments in one year, with 11 million in 1999. It was nominated for five Grammy Awards and spawned four Top 40 singles; \"I Want It That Way\", \"Larger than Life\", \"Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely\", and \"The One\". It has since become one of the best-selling albums of all time, selling 24 million copies worldwide. The band promoted the album through the Into the Millennium Tour, which became one of the fastest-grossing tours of all time.\n\nFollowing the release of the Backstreet Boys' first US album \"Backstreet Boys\" and second international album \"Backstreet's Back\" selling 27 million copies worldwide, they were met with critics accusing them of being a \"flash in the pan\" and misconceptions that they earned a lot of money. In 1997–1998, the band filed a lawsuit against manager Lou Pearlman, stating that they only received $300,000 from recording and touring while he kept over $10 million. Pearlman claimed to be the \"sixth Backstreet Boy\", and revealed to them that he managed rival boy band NSYNC, who sold over 6 million copies of their debut album, stating that \"it's business\". On September 18, 1998, the band left their management company Wright Stuff, which was formerly associated with Pearlman's record company Trans Continental Records.\n\nDuring the same period, the band also dealt with personal tragedies; Kevin Richardson suffered two family deaths, Brian Littrell needed to undergo open heart surgery, Howie Dorough lost his sister from lupus, and the band's producer Denniz Pop died of stomach cancer. The album was initially titled \"Larger Than Life\", which Dorough described as \"almost like a thank-you song for all they've done\" because they were always supporting the band.\n\nEvery version of Britney Spears's debut album \"...Baby One More Time\" that was released prior to \"Millennium\" contained previews of three songs as hidden tracks, placed at the end of the album against Spears' wishes. The band appeared on \"Saturday Night Live\" and \"Total Request Live\" during the album's release date, and filmed a Disney Channel concert special called \"Backstreet Boys in Concert\" the same day.\n\nFour singles were released from the album.\n\nThe album's supporting tour, Into the Millennium Tour, started from June 2, 1999 and ended on March 15, 2000 with a total of 123 shows in 84 cities spanning three legs. The first leg of the North American tour initially sold 53 dates (40 announced and 13 added) due to demand in 39 cities, scheduled to run from September 14–December 2, 1999.\nThe concert at Georgia Dome, Atlanta, was the 5th most attended concert in American history and the most attended concert by a pop artist.\n\nStephen Thomas Erlewine of AllMusic gave the album 4 stars out of 5, writing that \"\"Millennium\" has no pretense of being anything other than an album for the moment, delivering more of everything that made \"Backstreet's Back\" a blockbuster.\" Robert Christgau gave \"Millennium\" a two-star honorable mention, stating that the album is \"softening it a little up for their younger demographic, sexing it up a little for their own peace of mind\", specifically praising \"I Want It That Way\" and \"Larger than Life\". Jim Farber from \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the album a B-, stating that they have taken risks in their lyrics, as \"Teen acts normally can’t acknowledge their romantic power. They have to remain the longing ones in order to seal the twin fantasies of purity and accessibility.\"\n\nIn a mixed review, Arion Berger of \"Rolling Stone\" commented that the album was \"prefabricated, too pretty, suspiciously well choreographed\", criticizing Nick Carter's straining vocals on \"I Need You Tonight\", feeling that \"It's Gotta Be You\" was a rehash of \"Everybody (Backstreet's Back)\" and mentioning how \"The Perfect Fan\" evaporated throughout the song. However, he praised \"Show Me the Meaning of Being Lonely\", describing it as \"digging its melodic claws into your skull on the first listen [...] it's the swooniest blending of the five vocalists' timbres to date, and mighty pretty besides.\"\n\nWriting for \"Spin\", Joshua Clover criticized the opening track \"Larger than Life\", stating that it \"boogies deftly and punks daftly [...] but huffs fame like glue\", while praising other uptempo songs such as \"I Want It That Way\", \"Don't Want You Back\", \"It's Gotta Be You\", and \"Spanish Eyes\". He concluded by giving the album a 7/10 rating, stating that while \"the calendar flipping soundtrack\" isn't Robbie Williams' song \"Millennium\", it \"smashes Silverchair's \"Anthem for the Year 2000\"\", comparing the band to Alanis Morissette over NSYNC.\n\n\"Millennium\" debuted at number one on the \"Billboard\" 200, where it remained for 10 non-consecutive weeks. It sold 1,134,000 copies in its first week of release, breaking the previous Nielsen SoundScan record held by Garth Brooks for single-week record sales. This record was subsequently overtaken in 2000 by NSYNC with the release of \"No Strings Attached\". \"Millennium\" sold nearly 500,000 copies in the US on its first day alone, setting a record for first-day sales, and became the best-selling album of 1999, selling 9,445,732 albums. It remained on the \"Billboard\" chart for 93 weeks, eventually selling over 13 million copies in the United States and being certified 13 times platinum.\n\nAs of 2016, the album stands as the fifth best selling album in the United States of the SoundScan era with 12.3 million units sold. In 2003 it was also reported as being the fourth biggest seller for Music Club sales in the US over the past 14 years with sales of 1.59 million, though these sales are not included in SoundScan's total. In Canada, \"Millennium\" was the seventh biggest selling album since 1995 in the Canadian Soundscan sales era up to end of December 2007, while in Japan, sales went up to 1 million according to \"Billboard\".\n\nNotes\n\nCredits for \"Millennium\" adapted from AllMusic.\n\nBackstreet Boys\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\nTechnical\n\nDesign\n\n"}
{"id": "2208579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208579", "title": "Java API for XML-based RPC", "text": "Java API for XML-based RPC\n\nJava API for XML-based RPC (JAX-RPC) allows a Java application to invoke a Java-based Web service with a known description while still being consistent with its WSDL description. JAX-RPC is one of the Java XML programming APIs. It can be seen as Java RMIs over Web services. JAX-RPC 2.0 was renamed JAX-WS 2.0 (Java API for XML Web Services). JAX-RPC 1 is deprecated with Java EE 6. The JAX-RPC service utilizes W3C (World Wide Web Consortium) standards like WSDL or Web Service Description Language.\nThe core API classes are located in the Java package codice_1.\n\n\nIt works as follows:\n\nThe advantage of such a method is that it allows the Web service to be implemented at server-side as a Servlet or EJB container. Thus, Servlet or EJB applications are made available through Web services.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208582", "title": "Teal Redmann", "text": "Teal Redmann\n\nBrittany Teal Redmann (born September 30, 1982) is an American actress. Redmann is best known for her role as Louise Grant in the television series \"Gilmore Girls\".\n\nBrittany Teal Redmann was born September 30, 1982, in Minnesota. She moved to Los Angeles, California, at the age of seventeen. \n\nHer first on-screen appearance was a small role as Abby in an episode of MTV's \"Undressed\". Redmann portrayed Dr. Tess Adkins in the science fiction film \"\" in 2000. Redmann joined the cast of The WB show \"Gilmore Girls\", playing Louise Grant. In 2002, she portrayed the role of Nicky Williams in the Disney Channel movie \"Double Teamed\". Redmann had small guest roles on the television shows \"Boston Public\" (2001)\",\" \"\" (2004) and \"\" (2005–2014)\".\" She has two horror films in the works \"The Glass Circle\" and \"The Harbinger.\"\n\nIn 2011, Redmann supported the Dream Again Campaign for Love146 to combat child sex slavery and exploitation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208584", "title": "Hershey bar", "text": "Hershey bar\n\nThe Hershey's Milk Chocolate Bar (commonly called the Hershey's Bar, or more simply the Hershey Bar) is the flagship chocolate bar of the Hershey Company. Hershey refers to it as \"The Great American Chocolate Bar.\" The Hershey Milk Chocolate Bar was first sold in 1900. A gold variant with pretzels and peanuts was sold for its 100th anniversary. \n\nThe Hershey Process milk chocolate in these bars uses fresh milk delivered directly from local farms. The process was developed by Milton Hershey and produced the first mass-produced chocolate in the United States. As a result, the Hershey flavor is widely recognized in the United States, but less so internationally, especially in areas where European chocolates are more widely available. The process is a company and trade secret, but experts speculate that the milk is partially lipolyzed, producing butyric acid, which stabilizes the milk from further fermentation. This flavor gives the product a \"tangy\" taste that the US public has come to associate with the taste of chocolate, to the point that other manufacturers often add butyric acid to their milk chocolates. Outside of America, the taste is more often likened to the taste of vomit, in part due to the butyric acid likely present in the chocolate. The American bar's taste profile was not as popular with the Canadian public, leading Hershey to introduce a reformulated Canadian bar in 1983.\n\nStarting in 2006, Hershey has added polyglycerol polyricinoleate (PGPR) to their chocolate, except for the traditional plain milk chocolate Hershey's Kisses. In 2015 Hershey announced they would begin removing PGPR from the rest of their chocolate. Artificial vanillin was also removed in 2015. Hershey did remove PGPR from some of their chocolate bars, but in April 2019 started putting it back in Hershey's Milk Chocolate with Almonds full size bar, and plain milk chocolate bars, and never removed it from Symphony milk chocolate and other products. Hershey does not claim to use vanilla in their chocolate, only natural flavor, which may be the same chemical as the artificial one it replaces, except created from a natural source through several processes.\n\nIn addition to the standard Milk Chocolate and Milk Chocolate with Almonds varieties, Hershey's produces several other chocolate bars in various flavors: Special Dark chocolate, Cookies 'N' Creme, Symphony (both Milk Chocolate and Almond Toffee), Mr. Goodbar (with peanuts), and Krackel (with crisped rice). Nine flavors were available for limited periods: Double Chocolate, Nut Lovers, Twosomes Reese's Pieces, Cookies 'N' Chocolate, Cookies 'N' Mint, Strawberries 'n' Creme, Raspberries 'n' Creme, Twosomes Heath, and Twosomes Whoppers. All flavors have between 210 and 230 calories per standard-sized bar.\n\nThe Kashruth Division of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations of America approves all flavors for consumption by observant Jews, with OU Kosher status.\n\nThe largest Hershey's bar commercially available weighs and costs US$59.99 on Hershey's website.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208589", "title": "Acey Slade", "text": "Acey Slade\n\nAcey Slade (born Emil John Schmidt IV; December 15, 1974) is an American musician, perhaps best known as the bassist of the alternative metal band Dope and the former guitarist of the horror punk and glam metal act Murderdolls. He is currently the lead singer and guitarist of the band Acey Slade & the Dark Party, and the live rhythm guitarist of Misfits. Previous to this, he served as the bassist in Joan Jett & the Blackhearts and the lead vocalist and guitarist in the punk rock band Trashlight Vision, which broke up September 12, 2007. He lives in Newark, New Jersey.\n\nPlayed in the Moon Dragons from Baltimore Maryland Prior to Vampire Love Dols, Murderdolls and Wednesday 13, Slade played bass, and later guitar, in Dope alongside guitarist Tripp Eisen who was also part of the Murderdolls. After Eisen left Dope, Slade was moved to guitar for the album \"Life\". He later left Dope to join the Murderdolls, again replacing Eisen on guitar. Before joining the Murderdolls (alongside his Dope work), Slade also fronted a band known as the Vampire Love Dolls.\nAfter Murderdolls were put on hiatus in 2004 Slade filled in on guitar for punk/metal crossover band Amen for a tour of Japan.\n\nSlade played rhythm guitar on the track \"Tired 'N Lonely\" on Roadrunner United for Roadrunner Records' 25-year anniversary. He collaborated on the song with Joey Jordison, who also played in the Murderdolls with Slade. After the break-up of TrashLight Vision Slade filled in as guitarist for Wednesday 13 on his 2008 tour as well as taking time to produce records by His Mighty Robot (which remains unreleased) and Billy Liar. \n\nSlade is one of the contributors to the book Sex Tips from Rock Stars by Paul Miles published by Omnibus Press in July 2010 and was also used as the motion-capture model for the Punk Singer and Rock Guitarist characters on the video game Rock Band 2.\n\nSlade is currently touring and promoting his new band Acey Slade & the Dark Party, whose début album \"The Dark Party\" was released in 2010, and is also playing bass with Joan Jett & the Blackhearts and filling in on bass for the occasional tour date with former band Dope.\nSlade performed second guitar for the various Original Misfits reunion sets.\n\n\n\nBlack 35 \"Ouija Board\" custom guitar (1 of a kind)\n\n\n\n† - Produced\n"}
{"id": "2208609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208609", "title": "St Salvator's College, St Andrews", "text": "St Salvator's College, St Andrews\n\nSt Salvator's College was a college of the University of St Andrews in St Andrews, Scotland. Founded in 1450, it is the oldest of the University's colleges. In 1747 it merged with St Leonard's College to form United College.\n\nSt Salvator's College was founded in 1450 by Bishop James Kennedy. King James II of Scotland provided an endowment at the college's foundation and several of the original medieval buildings survive, including the college chapel, tower, tenement building (adjoining to the west of tower, actually older than the adjoining tower, but much restored) and the Hebdomodar's building.\n\nIn 1528, the Protestant martyr, Patrick Hamilton, was burned alive outside the college, though Patrick himself was a member of St Leonard's college.\n\nInitially a college of Theology and the Arts, St Salvator's was created to revitalize and focus the university after its somewhat disorderly foundation.\n\nDue to financial considerations, fall in student numbers and general decline of the university, St Salvator's and St Leonard's Colleges amalgamated into the United College of Saint Salvator and Saint Leonard in 1747. Shortly after this, the initial site of St Leonard's College was sold, though the university retained ownership of St Leonard's College Chapel. Although the buildings of St Salvator's College (including the college chapel) were grand by medieval standards, they eventually fell into disrepair. From 1837 the quadrangle was rebuilt and extended into its current form, with a north and a west wing in Jacobean style (in similar style to Madras College on South Street built at the same time). To the south is the Chapel, where many university services are held.\n\nSt Salvator's College was residential until the unification with St Leonard's. The current St Salvator's Hall (built from the 1930s), which lies east of the college, is one of the halls of residence for students.\n\nThe chapel, tower and Hebdomadar's Building are all designated as Category A listed buildings by Historic Scotland. Other buildings and structures are listed as Category B.\n\nThe college chapel is unusual for a collegiate church in that the main entrance faces out into the town, and not like those in Oxford or Cambridge, closed into the college itself. It is indeed the only collegiate chapel in Scotland with this arrangement. The chapel was used as a parish church after the St Leonard's college chapel was unroofed in the 1750s until this arrangement was withdrawn by the university. The 1450 college had cloister buildings to the north of the college chapel - the two doors to the north side of the chapel show the alignment of the cloister.\n\nToday, with the university having abandoned the Collegiate system in all but name, the St Salvator’s/United College site houses various lecture theatres, and the departments of Spanish, Russian, and social anthropology. It is commonly referred to as “the quad”, and is the setting of Raisin Monday festivities, the finish point of the post-Graduation processions, and occasionally hosts student events.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208614", "title": "Hungary at the 1896 Summer Olympics", "text": "Hungary at the 1896 Summer Olympics\n\nHungary competed at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece.\nAustrian and Hungarian results at early Olympic Games are generally kept separate despite the union of the two nations as Austria-Hungary at the time.\n\nSeven athletes from Hungary competed in six sports. The Hungarian medals came on 18 entries in 15 events.\n\nThe following is the list of number of competitors participating in the Games:\n\nThe Hungarian athletes were successful in each event except the 110 metre hurdles, taking a silver, two bronzes, and a 4th-place finish.\n\nThe Hungarian gymnasts were unable to win any medals.\n\nHajós won both events he entered, taking two of the four swimming medals (he could not enter the 100 metres for sailors event, and the 500 metres was immediately after the 100 metres and immediately before the 1200 metres).\n\nTapavicza was defeated by Dionysios Kasdaglis in the semifinals of the singles tournament.\n\nTapavicza took last place in the weightlifting competition. The amount he lifted is unknown except that it was less than 90 kilograms, the amount lifted by the third through fifth place contestants.\n\nTapavicza lost his only wrestling match, which turned into a contest of endurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208622", "title": "Lover I Don't Have to Love", "text": "Lover I Don't Have to Love\n\n\"Lover I Don't Have to Love\" is a song by Bright Eyes released as a single in 2002 and released on the album \"Lifted or The Story Is in the Soil, Keep Your Ear to the Ground\".\n\nThe music video is karaoke with sing-along lyrics and different ambiences in the background.\n\nIt was covered by Bettie Serveert on their 2004 album \"Attagirl\", and this cover was played extensively during the episode \"The Undertow\" of \"The O.C.\"\n\nThe line \"I asked your name, you asked the time\" is a reference to the novel \"The Catcher in the Rye\" by J.D. Salinger.\nSingle cover photograph by Casey Scott.\n\n\nThe CD single has the title \"3 More Hit Songs from Bright Eyes.\"\n"}
{"id": "2208627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208627", "title": "Take It Easy (Love Nothing)", "text": "Take It Easy (Love Nothing)\n\n\"Take It Easy (Love Nothing)\" is a single by Bright Eyes, released in October 2004. It, along with \"Lua\", took the top two spots on \"Billboard\" magazine's Hot Singles Sales chart, something that had not been accomplished by one artist since 1997. The title song appears on the 2005 album, \"Digital Ash in a Digital Urn\".\n\nThe single is the 69th release of Saddle Creek Records.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208631", "title": "History of the alphabet", "text": "History of the alphabet\n\nThe history of alphabetic writing goes back to the consonantal writing system used for Semitic languages in the Levant in the 2nd millennium BCE. Most or nearly all alphabetic scripts used throughout the world today ultimately go back to this Semitic proto-alphabet. Its first origins can be traced back to a Proto-Sinaitic script developed in Ancient Egypt to represent the language of Semitic-speaking workers and slaves in Egypt. This script was partly influenced by the older Egyptian hieratic, a cursive script related to Egyptian hieroglyphs.\n\nMainly through Phoenician, Hebrew and later Aramaic, three closely related members of the Semitic family of scripts that were in use during the early first millennium BCE, the Semitic alphabet became the ancestor of multiple writing systems across the Middle East, Europe, northern Africa and South Asia.\n\nSome modern authors distinguish between consonantal scripts of the Semitic type, called \"abjads\" since 1996, and \"true alphabets\" in the narrow sense, the distinguishing criterion being that true alphabets consistently assign letters to both consonants and vowels on an equal basis, while the symbols in a pure abjad stand only for consonants. (So-called impure abjads may use diacritics or a few symbols to represent vowels.) In this sense, then the first true alphabet would be the Greek alphabet, which was adapted from the Phoenician alphabet, but not all scholars and linguists think this is enough to strip away the original meaning of an alphabet to one with both vowels and consonants. Latin, the most widely used alphabet today, in turn derives from the Etruscan and Greek alphabets, themselves derived from Phoenician.\n\nTwo scripts are well attested from before the end of the fourth millennium BCE: Mesopotamian cuneiform and Egyptian hieroglyphs.\nHieroglyphs were employed in three ways in Ancient Egyptian texts: as logograms (ideograms) that represent a word denoting an object pictorially depicted by the hieroglyph; more commonly as phonograms writing a sound or sequence of sounds; and as determinatives (which provide clues to meaning without directly writing sounds). Since vowels were mostly unwritten, the hieroglyphs which indicated a single consonant could have been used as a consonantal alphabet (or \"abjad\"). This was not done when writing the Egyptian language, but seems to have been a significant influence on the creation of the first alphabet (used to write a Semitic language). All subsequent alphabets around the world have either descended from this first Semitic alphabet, or have been inspired by one of its descendants (i.e. \"stimulus diffusion\"), with the possible exception of the Meroitic alphabet, a 3rd-century BCE adaptation of hieroglyphs in Nubia to the south of Egypt. The Rongorongo script of Easter Island may also be an independently invented alphabet, but too little is known of it to be certain.\n\nThe Proto-Sinaitic script of Egypt has yet to be fully deciphered. However, it may be alphabetic and probably records the Canaanite language. The oldest examples are found as graffiti in the Wadi el Hol and date to perhaps 1850 BCE. The table below shows hypothetical prototypes of the Phoenician alphabet in Egyptian hieroglyphs. Several correspondences have been proposed with Proto-Sinaitic letters.\n<br>\n\nThis Semitic script adapted Egyptian hieroglyphs to write consonantal values based on the first sound of the Semitic name for the object depicted by the hieroglyph (the \"acrophonic principle\"). So, for example, the hieroglyph \"per\" (\"house\" in Egyptian) was used to write the sound [b] in Semitic, because [b] was the first sound in the Semitic word for \"house\", \"bayt\". The script was used only sporadically, and retained its pictographic nature, for half a millennium, until adopted for governmental use in Canaan. The first Canaanite states to make extensive use of the alphabet were the Phoenician city-states and so later stages of the Canaanite script are called Phoenician. The Phoenician cities were maritime states at the center of a vast trade network and soon the Phoenician alphabet spread throughout the Mediterranean. Two variants of the Phoenician alphabet had major impacts on the history of writing: the Aramaic alphabet and the Greek alphabet.\n\nThe Phoenician and Aramaic alphabets, like their Egyptian prototype, represented only consonants, a system called an \"abjad\". The Aramaic alphabet, which evolved from the Phoenician in the 7th century BCE, to become the official script of the Persian Empire, appears to be the ancestor of nearly all the modern alphabets of Asia:\n\n\nBy at least the 8th century BCE the Greeks borrowed the Phoenician alphabet and adapted it to their own language, creating in the process the first \"true\" alphabet, in which vowels were accorded equal status with consonants. According to Greek legends transmitted by Herodotus, the alphabet was brought from Phoenicia to Greece by Cadmos. The letters of the Greek alphabet are the same as those of the Phoenician alphabet, and both alphabets are arranged in the same order. However, whereas separate letters for vowels would have actually hindered the legibility of Egyptian, Phoenician, or Hebrew, their absence was problematic for Greek, where vowels played a much more important role. The Greeks used for vowels some of the Phoenician letters representing consonants which weren't used in Greek speech. All of the names of the letters of the Phoenician alphabet started with consonants, and these consonants were what the letters represented, something called the acrophonic principle.\n\nHowever, several Phoenician consonants were absent in Greek, and thus several letter names came to be pronounced with initial vowels. Since the start of the name of a letter was expected to be the sound of the letter (the acrophonic principle), in Greek these letters came to be used for vowels. For example, the Greeks had no glottal stop or voiced pharyngeal sounds, so the Phoenician letters \"’alep\" and \"`ayin\" became Greek \"alpha\" and \"o\" (later renamed \"o micron\"), and stood for the vowels and rather than the consonants and . As this fortunate development only provided for five or six (depending on dialect) of the twelve Greek vowels, the Greeks eventually created digraphs and other modifications, such as \"ei\", \"ou\", and \"o\" (which became omega), or in some cases simply ignored the deficiency, as in long \"a, i, u\".\n\nSeveral varieties of the Greek alphabet developed. One, known as Western Greek or Chalcidian, was used west of Athens and in southern Italy. The other variation, known as Eastern Greek, was used in Asia Minor (also called Asian Greece i.e. present-day aegean Turkey). The Athenians (c. 400 BCE) adopted that latter variation and eventually the rest of the Greek-speaking world followed. After first writing right to left, the Greeks eventually chose to write from left to right, unlike the Phoenicians who wrote from right to left. Many Greek letters are similar to Phoenician, except the letter direction is reversed or changed, which can be the result of historical changes from right-to-left writing to boustrophedon to left-to-right writing.\n\n\nGreek is in turn the source of all the modern scripts of Europe. The alphabet of the early western Greek dialects, where the letter eta remained an , gave rise to the Old Italic alphabet which in turn developed into the Old Roman alphabet. In the eastern Greek dialects, which did not have an /h/, eta stood for a vowel, and remains a vowel in modern Greek and all other alphabets derived from the eastern variants: Glagolitic, Cyrillic, Armenian, Gothic (which used both Greek and Roman letters), and perhaps Georgian.\n\nAlthough this description presents the evolution of scripts in a linear fashion, this is a simplification. For example, the Manchu alphabet, descended from the abjads of West Asia, was also influenced by Korean hangul, which was either independent (the traditional view) or derived from the abugidas of South Asia. Georgian apparently derives from the Aramaic family, but was strongly influenced in its conception by Greek. A modified version of the Greek alphabet, using an additional half dozen demotic hieroglyphs, was used to write Coptic Egyptian. Then there is Cree syllabics (an abugida), which is a fusion of Devanagari and Pitman shorthand developed by the missionary James Evans.\n\nA tribe known as the Latins, who became the Romans, also lived in the Italian peninsula like the Western Greeks. From the Etruscans, a tribe living in the first millennium BCE in central Italy, and the Western Greeks, the Latins adopted writing in about the seventh century. In adopting writing from these two groups, the Latins dropped four characters from the Western Greek alphabet. They also adapted the Etruscan letter F, pronounced 'w,' giving it the 'f' sound, and the Etruscan S, which had three zigzag lines, was curved to make the modern S. To represent the G sound in Greek and the K sound in Etruscan, the Gamma was used. These changes produced the modern alphabet without the letters G, J, U, W, Y, and Z, as well as some other differences.\n\nC, K, and Q in the Roman alphabet could all be used to write both the and sounds; the Romans soon modified the letter C to make G, inserted it in seventh place, where Z had been, to maintain the gematria (the numerical sequence of the alphabet). Over the few centuries after Alexander the Great conquered the Eastern Mediterranean and other areas in the third century BCE, the Romans began to borrow Greek words, so they had to adapt their alphabet again in order to write these words. From the Eastern Greek alphabet, they borrowed Y and Z, which were added to the end of the alphabet because the only time they were used was to write Greek words.\n\nThe Anglo-Saxons began using Roman letters to write Old English as they converted to Christianity, following Augustine of Canterbury's mission to Britain in the sixth century. Because the Runic \"wen\", which was first used to represent the sound 'w' and looked like a p that is narrow and triangular, was easy to confuse with an actual p, the 'w' sound began to be written using a double u. Because the u at the time looked like a v, the double u looked like two v's, W was placed in the alphabet by V. U developed when people began to use the rounded U when they meant the vowel u and the pointed V when the meant the consonant V. J began as a variation of I, in which a long tail was added to the final I when there were several in a row. People began to use the J for the consonant and the I for the vowel by the fifteenth century, and it was fully accepted in the mid-seventeenth century.\n\nThe order of the letters of the alphabet is attested from the fourteenth century BCE in the town of Ugarit on Syria's northern coast. Tablets found there bear over one thousand cuneiform signs, but these signs are not Babylonian and there are only thirty distinct characters. About twelve of the tablets have the signs set out in alphabetic order. There are two orders found, one of which is nearly identical to the order used for Hebrew, Greek and Latin, and a second order very similar to that used for Ethiopian.\n\nIt is not known how many letters the Proto-Sinaitic alphabet had nor what their alphabetic order was. Among its descendants, the Ugaritic alphabet had 27 consonants, the South Arabian alphabets had 29, and the Phoenician alphabet 22. These scripts were arranged in two orders, an \"ABGDE\" order in Phoenician and an \"HMĦLQ\" order in the south; Ugaritic preserved both orders. Both sequences proved remarkably stable among the descendants of these scripts.\n\nThe letter names proved stable among the many descendants of Phoenician, including Samaritan, Aramaic, Syriac, Arabic, Hebrew, and Greek alphabet. However, they were largely abandoned in Tifinagh, Latin and Cyrillic. The letter sequence continued more or less intact into Latin, Armenian, Gothic, and Cyrillic, but was abandoned in Brahmi, Runic, and Arabic, although a traditional \"abjadi order\" remains or was re-introduced as an alternative in the latter.\n\nThe table is a schematic of the Phoenician alphabet and its descendants.\n\nThese 22 consonants account for the phonology of Northwest Semitic. Of the 29 consonant phonemes commonly reconstructed for Proto-Semitic, seven are missing: the interdental fricatives , the voiceless lateral fricatives , the voiced uvular fricative , and the distinction between uvular and pharyngeal voiceless fricatives , in Canaanite merged in . The six variant letters added in the Arabic alphabet include these (except for , which survives as a separate phoneme in Ge'ez ሠ):\n\nOne modern national alphabet that has not been graphically traced back to the Canaanite alphabet is the Maldivian script, which is unique in that, although it is clearly modeled after Arabic and perhaps other existing alphabets, it derives its letter forms from numerals. Another is the Korean Hangul, which was created independently in 1443. The Osmanya alphabet was devised for Somali in the 1920s by Osman Yusuf Kenadid, and the forms of its consonants appear to be complete innovations.\n\nAmong alphabets that are not used as national scripts today, a few are clearly independent in their letter forms. The Zhuyin phonetic alphabet and Japanese Kana both derive from Chinese characters. The Santali alphabet of eastern India appears to be based on traditional symbols such as \"danger\" and \"meeting place\", as well as pictographs invented by its creator. (The names of the Santali letters are related to the sound they represent through the acrophonic principle, as in the original alphabet, but it is the \"final\" consonant or vowel of the name that the letter represents: \"le\" \"swelling\" represents \"e\", while \"en\" \"thresh grain\" represents \"n\".)\n\nIn early medieval Ireland, Ogham consisted of tally marks, and the monumental inscriptions of the Old Persian Empire were written in an essentially alphabetic cuneiform script whose letter forms seem to have been created for the occasion.\n\nChanges to a new writing medium sometimes caused a break in graphical form, or make the relationship difficult to trace. It is not immediately obvious that the cuneiform Ugaritic alphabet derives from a prototypical Semitic abjad, for example, although this appears to be the case. And while manual alphabets are a direct continuation of the local written alphabet (both the British two-handed and the French/American one-handed alphabets retain the forms of the Latin alphabet, as the Indian manual alphabet does Devanagari, and the Korean does Hangul), Braille, semaphore, maritime signal flags, and the Morse codes are essentially arbitrary geometric forms. The shapes of the English Braille and semaphore letters, for example, are derived from the alphabetic order of the Latin alphabet, but not from the graphic forms of the letters themselves. Most modern forms of shorthand are also unrelated to the alphabet, generally transcribing sounds instead of letters.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208633", "title": "Jimmy Winston", "text": "Jimmy Winston\n\nJames Edward Winston Langwith (born 20 April 1945, Stratford, London), known professionally as Jimmy Winston, is an English musician and actor. He was the original keyboard player with Small Faces. Winston had apparently previously worked under the stage name James Moody, before switching to Winston as a possible reference to Winston Churchill.\n\nHis acting credits include the 1968 stage musical \"Hair\" and the 1972 \"Doctor Who\" serial \"Day of the Daleks.\n\nIn early 1965, Winston, along with his acquaintance Steve Marriott, formed the Small Faces with Ronnie Lane and Kenney Jones. While originally a guitarist, his role was soon shifted to become a keyboardist. Winston was fundamental in the band's emergence, as his parents owned the Ruskin Arms pub located in Manor Park, a place where the group would rehearse and occasionally perform at. After a performance at the Cavern Club on Leicester Square, an assistant of manager Don Arden stepped up to the band and managed to secure them a contract with Decca Records. The band would go on to release their debut single \"Whatcha Gonna Do About It\" later that year, peaking at number 14. The success of this single would be followed by \"I've Got Mine\", which despite good reviews failed to chart. The group including Winston perform the song in \"Dateline Diamonds\".\"\" Shortly after this release, Winston left the group, and was promptly replaced by Ian McLagan.\n\nA factor that has been rumored about his termination is that during an episode of \"Thank Your Lucky Stars,\" Winston would snub Marriott. There has been controversy whether Winston left the group himself or was fired. Lane stated in an interview that he was fired:\nHowever, Kenney Jones would later state the contrary: \"He (Winston) got above his station and tried to compete with Steve Marriott.\" Reality is he left. \n\n\"Sun In the Morning\" / \"Just Wanna Smile\" (1976)\n\"Sorry She's Mine\" / \"It's Not What You Do (But the Way That You Do It)\" (1966)\n\"Real Crazy Apartment\" / \"Snow White\" (1967)\n"}
{"id": "2208640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208640", "title": "Abraham Nunez", "text": "Abraham Nunez\n\nAbraham Nunez may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208646", "title": "Vladimir Arsenyev", "text": "Vladimir Arsenyev\n\nVladimir Klavdiyevich Arsenyev, (; 10 September 1872 – 4 September 1930) was a Russian explorer of the Far East who recounted his travels in a series of books — \"По Уссурийскому Краю\" (\"Along the Ussury land\") (1921) and \"Дерсу Узала\" (\"Dersu Uzala\") (1923) — telling of his military journeys to the Ussuri basin with Dersu Uzala, a native hunter, from 1902 to 1907. He was the first to describe numerous species of Siberian flora and the lifestyles of native ethnic peoples.\n\nArseniev was born in St. Petersburg, Russian Empire. His father, born a serf, became the chief of the Moscow District Railway. After a military education, Arseniev began his expeditions to the forests of the Far East. He lived in Vladivostok through the years of the Russian Civil War and was a Commissar for Ethnic Minorities (Komisar po delam inrodcheskim) of the independent Far Eastern Republic. After the Far Eastern Republic was absorbed by Soviet Russia in 1922 Arsenyev refused to emigrate and stayed in Vladivostok.\n\nArseniev is most famous for authoring many books about his explorations, including some 60 works on the geography, wildlife and ethnography of the regions he traveled. Arseniev's most famous book, \"Dersu Uzala\", is a memoir of three expeditions in the Ussurian \"taiga\" (forest) of Northern Asia along the Sea of Japan and North to Vladivostok. The book is named after Arseniev's guide, an Ussurian native of the Nanai/Goldi tribe. Eventually the book was made into two films, one by Soviet director Agasi Babayan in 1961, the other by Japanese filmmaker Akira Kurosawa in 1975. The latter Dersu Uzala version won that year's Oscar for Best Foreign-Language Film. The third book of Arsenyev's trilogy, \"In the Sikhote-Alin mountains\", was published posthumously in 1937.\n\nArseniev died in 1930 in Vladivostok at the age of 57. His widow, Margarita Nikolaevna Arsenieva, was arrested in 1934 and again in 1937 after being accused of being a member of an underground organization of spies and saboteurs allegedly headed by her late husband. The military court hearings of the case (21 August 1938) took only 10 minutes and sentenced her to death. She was executed immediately. Arsenyev's daughter Natalya also was arrested in April 1941 and sentenced to the Gulag.\n\nArsenyev’s family home in Vladivostok has been made into a museum. Arsenyev, a town located in Primorsky Krai, was named after him. In 2018 Vladivostok International airport was renamed after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208649", "title": "Rueda, Valladolid", "text": "Rueda, Valladolid\n\nRueda is a village and municipality in the province of Valladolid, part of the autonomous community of Castile-Leon, Spain. \nIt is located 30 km southwest of the provincial capital, the city of Valladolid.\nThe population is 1.614\nThis locality is also the center for the wine denomination Rueda (DO).\n\nThe region produces white wines made with grape varieties like: Verdejo, Viura, Sauvignon blanc, while the authorised red varieties are Tempranillo, Cabernet Sauvignon, Merlot and Garnacha.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208652", "title": "Sunwoo Entertainment", "text": "Sunwoo Entertainment\n\nSunwoo Entertainment, Co., Ltd. () is an animation studio located in Seoul, South Korea. It was established as Sunwoo Production Inc. in 1974. It began by producing animation mainly for Disney Afternoon TV series, such as \"Chip 'n Dale Rescue Rangers\" and \"Darkwing Duck\", and soon expanded by providing animation services for Nickelodeon shows like \"Rocko's Modern Life\" and \"Invader Zim\", and other series like \"Duckman\" on USA Network and \"Fatherhood\" on Nick at Nite.\n\nMany studios have been \"spun off\" from Sunwoo; the first to do so was Anivision, which was established in March 1991. Anivision worked on \"The Simpsons\", with AKOM and Rough Draft Studios, and \"Rugrats\", replacing Wang Film Productions for its 2nd season in 1992. Grimsaem Animation Co. Ltd., Seoul, Korea, which mainly does feature-length work for Nickelodeon, was established in March 1997. In April 1998, Sunwoo Digital International was established, whose most notable work was for the Fox TV series \"Family Guy\". In April 2000, all of these spin-off studios were merged under the banner Sunwoo Entertainment, and it has remained that way ever since.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208661", "title": "Tom Hayward", "text": "Tom Hayward\n\nThomas Walter Hayward (29 March 1871 – 19 July 1939) was an English first-class cricketer who played for Surrey and England between the 1890s and the outbreak of World War I. He was primarily an opening batsman, noted especially for the quality of his off-drive. Neville Cardus wrote that he \"was amongst the most precisely technical and most prolific batsmen of any time in the annals of cricket.\" He was only the second batsman to reach the landmark of 100 first-class centuries, following WG Grace. In the 1906 English season he scored 3,518 runs, a record aggregate since surpassed only by Denis Compton and Bill Edrich in 1947.\n\nBorn 29 March 1871 in Cambridge Hayward came from a cricketing family: his grandfather, father and uncle had all played first-class cricket. Hayward himself made his debut for Surrey in 1893 and quickly established himself as an important part of the side, being capped in 1894 and receiving the accolade of Wisden Cricketer of the Year the following season. Although primarily a batsman, Hayward took 481 wickets in first class cricket, taking 114 in the 1897 season. GL Jessop referred to him as an awkward bowler, who bowled wide of the crease and achieved unexpected nip off the wicket that seduced the unwary batsman into an injudicious stroke.\n\nFrom 1895 through to his final season in 1914, Hayward never once failed to reach 1,000 first-class runs, passing 2,000 on ten occasions and twice (in 1904 and 1906) scoring over 3,000; his 1906 aggregate of 3,518 (at 66.37 with 13 hundreds) established a record which stood until surpassed by Denis Compton and Bill Edrich in 1947. In 1898 he made his highest first-class score of 315 against Lancashire. In 1899 he and Bobby Abel put on 448 for Surrey's fourth wicket against Yorkshire. This remains the highest partnership for any wicket for Surrey. In 1900 he achieved the very rare feat of scoring 1,000 runs before the end of May.\n\nHayward's first Test match for England came on tour with Lord Hawke's side against South Africa at Port Elizabeth in 1895/96, and in his second Test (at Johannesburg) he hit 122 as England recorded an innings victory. In all he played 35 times for England scoring three hundreds, his last innings coming against Australia in 1909: run out for six to finish just one run short of 2,000 for his Test career. He scored 130 at Old Trafford in the fourth Test of the 1899 Ashes series, batting at number six. He came in at 47 for 4, and enabled the final total to reach 372. It was described as \"one of the great Test innings\" by Ralph Barker. He followed that up in the fifth Test, at The Oval, with 137, putting on 185 for the first wicket with FS Jackson. He headed the batting averages for both sides in this series, in seven innings scoring 413 runs at 68.83.\n\nOnce Jack Hobbs made his Surrey debut in 1905, he and Hayward formed an effective opening partnership for the county. The pair put on a hundred or more for the first wicket on 40 occasions. They only played together once for England, opening the innings when Hayward was recalled for what was to prove his final Test, at Lord's in 1909.\n\nDespite a gradual decline in his athleticism in his later career, Hayward remained an effective batsman well into his forties, and in June 1913 he scored his hundredth first-class century, becoming only the second batsman (after W. G. Grace) to achieve this feat. He made his 104th and final hundred in August 1914 against Yorkshire at Lord's (where Surrey played several \"home\" matches after World War I had begun), but made just one in his last innings of all, against Gloucestershire back at The Oval and on grounds of age did not resume his career after the end of hostilities. Surrey won the County Championship in his final season. Hayward had the rare honour for a professional of the time of captaining the side for six matches in August when the regular captain, Cyril Wilkinson, was unavailable, in preference to the young amateurs Donald Knight and Percy Fender.\n\nAlthough primarily known as a batsman, Hayward was also an effective bowler for his county in the middle of his career. In 1897 he did the \"double\", with 1,368 runs and 114 wickets, and in 1899 he took two hat-tricks. His best bowling of 8–89 was achieved against Warwickshire at Edgbaston in 1901.\n\nHayward was respected as a model professional. Of his final years with Surrey, David Lemmon wrote: \"He was the senior professional in all aspects, setting down standards of behaviour which others violated at their peril. He led by bearing and by example.\"\n\nHe stood in one first-class match as an umpire, the 1920 game between Oxford University and Essex. He died 19 July 1939 in Cambridge at the age of 68.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208666", "title": "Jonathan Elias", "text": "Jonathan Elias\n\nJonathan Elias (born 1956) is an American composer, record producer, and musician best known for his film soundtracks, production for several pop and rock acts, and his award-winning advertising music.\n\nElias was born in New York City in 1956. He started playing piano at the age of six, and was composing his own music by twelve, inspired in part by Broadway musicals. He liked rock music, but also admired Béla Bartók, Igor Stravinsky, and Sergei Rachmaninoff.\n\nHe attended the Eastman School of Music with aspirations of becoming a classical composer and conductor, and then Bennington College in Vermont in 1976. While still in school, he cut his teeth doing the music for movie trailers, most notably \"Alien\", and later scored the trailers for \"Blade Runner\", \"Gandhi\", and \"Back to the Future\". He went on to work on numerous movie soundtracks, starting with \"Children of the Corn\" and including \"Tuff Turf\", \"Parents\", \"Chaplin\", and more.\n\nHe and his brother Scott Elias founded the music and advertising firm Elias Associates in 1980; it later became Elias Arts. The company had several notable successes, including the crunching \"Moon Landing\" theme used in the top-of-the-hour branding of MTV, the Columbia Pictures logo theme, and the famous Yahoo! yodel.\n\nHe met John Barry (of James Bond soundtrack fame) in the early 1980s, and began working with him on several movie soundtracks, including \"Jagged Edge\" and \"A View to a Kill\". It was during the \"A View to a Kill\" sessions in 1985 that Elias met and became friends with the members of pop group Duran Duran (they performed the title song for the movie).\n\nWhile working on the soundtrack to the film \"9½ Weeks\" the year after that, Elias co-wrote the single \"I Do What I Do\" with Duran Duran's bassist John Taylor, who performed the vocals — his first solo venture. The song went to #42 on the UK Singles Chart, and to #23 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in the US. Elias and Taylor also co-wrote and co-produced the melancholy piano instrumental \"Jazz\", released on the b-side of the single. Elias and Taylor went on to co-write an album's worth of additional unreleased material together that year, which would eventually be collected on Taylor's 1999 album \"Résumé\".\n\nElias produced an album for Grace Jones and co-produced (with Daniel Abraham) Duran Duran's 1988 album \"Big Thing\". He also returned to play Moog synthesizer on Duran Duran's 1995 album \"Thank You\".\n\nIn 1989, Elias recruited the entire Duran Duran lineup for his first solo album, called \"Requiem for the Americas\". The most recognizable of Duran Duran's contributions to the album was vocalist Simon Le Bon's solo track \"Follow In My Footsteps\", which also featured The Bangles vocalist Susanna Hoffs on backup vocals. John Taylor played bass on \"The Chant Movement\", with other Duran members adding their instrumental touches on various tracks. Other vocalists on the album included Grace Jones, Toni Childs, Michael Bolton, Patti Scialfa, and Jon Anderson.\n\nElias then worked with the band Yes on their 1991 album \"Union\". Many band members were not speaking to each other, and the disjointed working atmosphere and the involvement of outside musicians (which allowed the piece to be finished at all) led to an uneven album which was generally unpopular with critics and fans. Elias was often blamed for the album's failure.\n\nIn 1992, Elias moved to California, and shifted his focus from movies and rock music to advertising. His firm Elias Arts has won an Emmy Award for the \"Move\" theme for Nike Inc., and has garnered dozens of Clio Awards and other advertising trophies for work for top-line corporations such as Ford, GM, Nissan, Audi, Infiniti, Mercedes, AT&T, NASDAQ, IBM, Apple, Sony, Levi's, and Adidas.\n\nElias released another solo project, \"The Prayer Cycle\", in 1999. This is a nine-part contemporary choral symphony in twelve languages (including Hebrew, Latin, Swahili and Urdu). Vocalists on this album include Alanis Morissette, Linda Ronstadt, James Taylor, Ofra Haza, Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Salif Keita, and Yungchen Lhamo of Tibet.\n\nIn 2004, he released \"American River\", a work combining piano and string quartet compositions with spoken word performances by Emmylou Harris, Kris Kristofferson, Marty Stuart, Rosanne Cash and Johnny Cash (in one of his last recorded works). \"American River\" was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best New Age Album in that year.\n\nHe also collaborated with Robert Downey, Jr. on his 2004 solo album \"The Futurist\" and on the soundtrack for Downey's film \"The Singing Detective\". , his most recent movie work has been on \"A Guide to Recognizing Your Saints\" (2006) and \"Pathfinder\" (2007), with the help of co-composers Jimmy Haun, David Wittman, Nathaniel Morgan and Tim Davies.\n\nHis most recent album is \"Prayer Cycle 2: Path to Zero\", released in 2011. Guest vocalists this time include Sting, Salif Keita, Rahat Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, Jonathan Davis of Korn, Jon Anderson, Trudie Styler, Angelique Kidjo, Richard Bona, Yungchen Lhamo, Dadawa, Robert Downey, Jr., Sinéad O'Connor, Serj Tankian, Alex Ebert and, via an archival recording, Jim Morrison.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208667", "title": "Mokona", "text": "Mokona\n\n"}
{"id": "2208669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208669", "title": "René, Duke of Alençon", "text": "René, Duke of Alençon\n\nRené of Alençon (1454 – 1 November 1492, Chateau d'Alençon, age 37–38), was the son of John II of Alençon and Marie of Armagnac.\n\nIn 1478, he was restored as Duke of Alençon and Count of Perche, titles which had been confiscated from his family after his father's conviction in 1474.\n\nHis first wife was Marguerite, daughter of William of Harcourt, Count of Tancarville. He married a second time on 14 May 1488 at Toul, to Margaret of Lorraine (1463 – 1 November 1521), daughter of Frederick, Count of Vaudémont and Yolande of Anjou. Margaret bore him three children:\n\n\nHe also had several illegitimate children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208672", "title": "Italy at the 1896 Summer Olympics", "text": "Italy at the 1896 Summer Olympics\n\nOne competitor from Italy was present at the 1896 Summer Olympics. He competed in shooting. Italy was one of four nations present that won no medals; Sweden, Chile and Bulgaria were the others. Italy's competitor, Rivabella, entered one event in the shooting program.\n\nA second Italian was present in Athens. Carlo Airoldi had walked most of the way from Milan, but was disqualified because he had received prize money in athletics events and was therefore not an amateur.\n\nRivabella was somewhere between 14th and 41st place, with a score less than 845.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208677", "title": "Tsubaki Nekoi", "text": "Tsubaki Nekoi\n\n, formerly , is a member of the all-female manga-creating team Clamp. She is the co-director and her duties in the team include applying screentones and correcting manga illustrations. She was also the lead artist (a role that normally falls to Mokona) on \"Legal Drug\", \"The One I Love\", \"Wish\", \"\" and \"xxxHolic\". As the lead artist in \"xxxHolic\", she is in charge of drawing the male characters while Mokona is responsible for the female characters.\n\nFor Clamp's 15th Anniversary in 2004, she and the other three members of Clamp changed their names because they reportedly wished to try new monikers.\n"}
{"id": "2208681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208681", "title": "New Town Hall (Prague)", "text": "New Town Hall (Prague)\n\nThe New Town Hall () is the administrative centre of Prague's (medieval) New Town Quarter, or \"Nové Město\". In 1419 it was the site of the first of the three defenestrations of Prague.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208690", "title": "Satsuki Igarashi", "text": "Satsuki Igarashi\n\nLike the other members of Clamp, she changed her name as part of the group's 15th Anniversary, however, for her it was only in the Japanese name from to .\n\nHer cousin is fellow manga artist, Yumiko Igarashi.\n\nAccording to Clamp's \"The One I Love\", Satsuki was bullied as a child in kindergarten by a group of boys. However, there was one boy who always stood up for her, and Satsuki developed a crush on him.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208692", "title": "Sweden at the 1896 Summer Olympics", "text": "Sweden at the 1896 Summer Olympics\n\nOne competitor from Sweden was present at the 1896 Summer Olympics. He competed in athletics and gymnastics, with 5 entries in as many events. Sweden was one of four nations present that won no medals; Italy, Chile and Bulgaria were the others.\n\nThe high jump was Sjöberg's most successful event, as he took 4th in it. He took either 4th or 5th in his heat in the 100 metres, needing 2nd to advance to the final. In the long jump, he placed somewhere between 5th and 9th, jumping something less than 5.74 metres. He was again somewhere between 5th and 9th in the discus throw, with a distance less than 25.20 metres.\n\nSjöberg did not place in the vaulting competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208702", "title": "Byrds (album)", "text": "Byrds (album)\n\nByrds is the twelfth and final studio album by the American rock band the Byrds and was released in March 1973 on Asylum Records (\"see\" 1973 in music). It was recorded as the centerpiece of a reunion among the five original band members: Roger McGuinn, Gene Clark, David Crosby, Chris Hillman, and Michael Clarke. The last time that all five members had worked together as the Byrds was in 1966, prior to Clark's departure from the band. During the reunion, the current, latter-day lineup of the band continued to make live appearances until February 1973, with McGuinn being the only member common to both versions of the group.\n\nUpon its release, \"Byrds\" received generally poor reviews, with many critics bemoaning a lack of sonic unity and the absence of the Byrds' signature jangly guitar sound among the album's shortcomings. Nonetheless, the album reached number 20 on the \"Billboard\" Top LPs & Tapes chart and was also moderately successful in the United Kingdom, where it reached number 31. In the U.S., \"Byrds\" was the band's highest charting album of new material since 1965's \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\", which had also been the last Byrds' album to feature Clark as a full member. Three of the album's songs, \"Full Circle\", \"Things Will Be Better\", and \"Cowgirl in the Sand\", were released as singles during 1973, but none of these releases became hits.\n\nBy 1972, the Byrds' guitarist and leader, Roger McGuinn, had grown dissatisfied with the current version of the group. As the only member to have remained consistent since the band's inception in 1964, McGuinn had steered the Byrds through a dizzying array of lineup changes during the late 1960s. The band's membership had finally stabilized in 1970, but by early 1972 dissension was brewing due to disagreements over band members' pay. As a result of this, Gene Parsons (the band's drummer since 1968) was fired by McGuinn in July 1972 and replaced by session musician John Guerin. The Byrds continued to tour and record sporadically throughout 1972, but no new single or album was forthcoming.\n\nConcurrently, the four ex-members of the Byrds who, along with McGuinn, had comprised the original mid-1960s lineup of the band, were, to an extent, at loose ends: David Crosby had completed his recording and touring obligations for the \"Graham Nash/David Crosby\" album; Chris Hillman's work with the Stephen Stills' helmed band Manassas was winding down; Gene Clark's critically lauded but financially unrewarding solo career was in need of a boost; and Michael Clarke had been without a band since the break up of the Flying Burrito Brothers in 1971. Furthermore, none of the five original band members' careers—with the exception of Crosby's—had been as financially rewarding as during The Byrds' mid-1960s heyday.\n\nTentative discussions between the five original members of the band, regarding a possible reunion, had taken place as early as July 1971, around the time that the then current lineup of the Byrds were recording their final album, \"Farther Along\". News of these discussions was leaked to the British music press, and in late January 1972, one week after the UK release of \"Farther Along\", the front page of \"Disc and Music Echo\" featured the headline, \"Original Byrds To Reform?\" The attendant article suggested that the reunion album would be a one-off project and that the current lineup of the Byrds would continue to tour and record, with no question of disbanding.\n\nMeanwhile, with the successful supergroup Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young on indefinite hiatus, while the individual members worked on other projects, managers David Geffen and Elliot Roberts had seen their attempts to bring a new CSNY album to the marketplace thwarted. In the absence of any new Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young product, Geffen became acutely aware that a historic reunion of the original Byrds could prove to be highly lucrative for all concerned. Thus, in mid-1972, Geffen weighed in with a substantial offer to the five original members to record a reunion album for his Asylum label.\n\nThe reunion actually took place in early October 1972, beginning with a rehearsal at McGuinn's house, where the band initially worked on one of the guitarist's new songs. Significantly, the group played none of their old material during this first rehearsal, but instead concentrated on selecting suitable songs for a new project. All five musicians were encouraged by the rehearsal and felt sure that they could recreate the magic of the Byrds' golden era. Consequently, they agreed to commence the recording of their first album together in seven years, with the last time that all five had worked together as the Byrds being early 1966, prior to Gene Clark's departure from the band.\n\nHowever, the reunited group were determined that the internal conflict that tore them apart during the 1960s would not be allowed to rear its head again. It was therefore agreed that they would not be a band in the traditional sense, but rather a loose arrangement of solo artists, akin to the \"modus operandi\" of Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young. With considerable leverage from Geffen, McGuinn managed to secure permission from Columbia Records—to which he was still contracted—to record a one-off album for the Asylum label. As part of the deal, Clive Davis, the president of Columbia Records, specified that McGuinn and Crosby would be required to record a joint album together for Columbia, which was to be released in 1973. However, this planned Crosby/McGuinn album failed to materialize, due to Davis being fired from Columbia shortly after the exchange deal was struck. While the original quintet prepared to record the reunion album, the existing Columbia lineup of the Byrds, featuring McGuinn, Clarence White, Skip Battin, and John Guerin, continued to make concert appearances in the United States.\n\nRecording sessions for the reunion album began on October 16, 1972 in room #4 of Wally Heider's Studio 3 recording facility in Los Angeles and continued until at least November 15, 1972. During these sessions, the band recorded all eleven of the songs that would appear on the finished album and at least two outtakes: the McGuinn and Jacques Levy penned \"My New Woman\" and the traditional folk song \"Fair and Tender Ladies\".\n\nIn 2009, a cache of multitrack tapes dating from the Byrds' reunion sessions and featuring a number of alternate versions and at least one outtake were discovered. The tapes include work-in-progress versions and alternate takes of the songs \"Laughing\", \"(See the Sky) About to Rain\", and \"Long Live the King\" (listed on the tape box under its working title of \"The King is Dead\"). In addition, the tapes also contained three different versions of the traditional song \"Fair and Tender Ladies\". Reportedly, one of these versions of the song features Crosby singing lead vocals, while the other two feature Clark. Also included among the recordings is a track with the title \"The Circle Song\", but it is not known whether this refers to the Clark penned \"Full Circle\" or to another previously undocumented outtake—perhaps a cover of Joni Mitchell's \"The Circle Game\"? Although it was not included on the reunion album, the Byrds' recording of McGuinn and Levy's \"My New Woman\" was later released on the guitarist's 1973 solo album, \"Roger McGuinn\".\n\nFollowing completion of the album's recording sessions, Crosby reached an agreement with McGuinn to dissolve the latter-day lineup of the Byrds, who were at that time still working as a touring band. Crosby had long been vocal about his displeasure over McGuinn's decision to recruit new members following his dismissal from the band in 1967 and had publicly stated his opinion that, \"there were only ever five Byrds.\" In the new spirit of reconciliation fostered by the reunion, and as a result of his own growing dissatisfaction with the current incarnation of the band, McGuinn acquiesced and permanently disbanded the latter-day lineup of the Byrds in February 1973.\n\nThe tracks that would make up the finished album included two from each of the four songwriters in the band, as well as a Joni Mitchell cover and two songs written by Neil Young. At the time of the album's release, much was made in the music press over the lack of any Bob Dylan songs, since the Byrds had covered Dylan's material frequently during the 1960s. This criticism prompted Crosby to contend that Young was the great songwriter of the 1970s, just as Dylan had been for the 1960s, and therefore it was entirely appropriate that the Byrds should be covering Young, rather than Dylan.\n\nThe opening track on the album, Clark's \"Full Circle\", had initially given the album its working title, but Clark was concerned that the public might mistakenly assume that the song had been written specifically for the Byrds' reunion. As the band's biographer Johnny Rogan has remarked, the song's wheel of fortune motif certainly seemed applicable, but the song actually predated the reunion, as Clark explained during a 1979 interview: \"I'd already recorded that song a couple of years earlier and it wasn't really written about anything specific. It was just an idea I had.\" Not only had the song been written by Clark prior to the Byrds' reunion, but by the time that \"Byrds\" was released, it had also recently been issued under the alternate title of \"Full Circle Song\" on Clark's \"Roadmaster\" album.\n\nA second Clark original included on \"Byrds\" was \"Changing Heart\", which served as a meditation on the pitfalls of stardom. Clark was also featured singing lead vocals on the album's pair of Neil Young covers. The decision to cover Young's \"Cowgirl in the Sand\" and \"(See the Sky) About to Rain\" was made by Clark, who had long admired the Canadian singer–songwriter, and not by Young's CSNY bandmate David Crosby, as was assumed by the press at the time. Rogan has described \"Cowgirl in the Sand\" as making striking use of the band's crystal clear harmonies, while Clark's harmonica playing lends the song a distinctive country flavor, perfectly in keeping with the song's subject matter. \"(See the Sky) About to Rain\", on the other hand, featured some attractive mandolin playing from the band's bassist Chris Hillman and climaxed with a chiming finalé, featuring the Byrds' signature jangling Rickenbacker guitars.\n\n\"Sweet Mary\", co-written by McGuinn and Jacques Levy, saw the Byrds' lead guitarist reverting to a folkier style of songwriting than he had exhibited of late, with Hillman again contributing some prominent mandolin to the song. McGuinn's other songwriting contribution to \"Byrds\" was \"Born to Rock 'n' Roll\", a semi-serious, autobiographical contemplation of the guitarist's career as a professional musician. The song had initially been recorded by the latter-day lineup of the Byrds in July 1972 for possible release as a single, but ultimately that version had been shelved and remained unreleased at the time. McGuinn decided to make another attempt at producing a definitive recording of the song during the reunion sessions, resulting in a rendition that the guitarist himself was dissatisfied with. McGuinn would later record the song for a third time on his 1975 solo album \"Roger McGuinn & Band\", but yet again he was unhappy with the end result, leading him to pointedly conclude in a later interview that \"'Born to Rock 'n' Roll' was a dog.\"\n\nHillman contributed two songs to the album, both co-authored with ex-Manassas bandmates: \"Things Will Be Better\", co-written with drummer Dallas Taylor, and \"Borrowing Time\", co-written with percussionist Joe Lala. The former song deals with the unpredictable nature of fame and stardom, a theme that was echoed in Clark's \"Full Circle\" and \"Changing Heart\".\n\nCrosby contributed the song \"Long Live the King\", a cynical commentary on the star-making mechanics of the music business, which Byrds expert Tim Connors has described as ironic, since it was precisely those same materialistic business practices that had enabled The Byrds' reunion to transpire in the first place. Crosby also chose to revisit the song \"Laughing\", which had already been released on his first solo album, \"If I Could Only Remember My Name\", in 1971. Crosby's rationale for re-recording the song was that he had originally written \"Laughing\" in 1967, during his last days as a member of the Byrds and as such, it had initially been intended for inclusion on a Byrds' album. The version of \"Laughing\" featured on \"Byrds\" saw the return of McGuinn's raga rock style of guitar playing, which had last been utilized on the band's \"Fifth Dimension\" and \"Younger Than Yesterday\" albums. Crosby also sang the lead vocal on the album's Joni Mitchell cover, \"For Free\".\n\n\"Byrds\" was released on March 7, 1973 in the United States (catalogue item SD 5058) and March 24, 1973 in the United Kingdom (catalogue item SYLA 8754). Although the album was issued in stereo commercially, there are mono promo copies of the LP known to exist. The album's sleeve was adorned with photographs taken by Henry Diltz, which fittingly pictured the band in the L.A. folk club The Troubadour, where McGuinn, Clark, and Crosby had first formed the nucleus of the Byrds in 1964.\n\nThe album peaked at number 20 on the \"Billboard\" Top LPs & Tapes chart, during a chart stay of seventeen weeks, making it the band's highest charting album of new material in the U.S. since 1965's \"Turn! Turn! Turn!\" album. In the UK, the album reached number 31, but only remained on the UK Albums Chart for one week. A total of four singles were taken from the album, beginning with \"Full Circle\" b/w \"Long Live the King\", which was released on April 11, 1973 and which reached number 109 on the \"Billboard\" chart. Two further singles taken from the album during 1973—\"Things Will Be Better\" b/w \"For Free\" (which was issued exclusively in the UK and Europe), and \"Cowgirl in the Sand\" b/w \"Long Live the King\"—failed to chart. Finally, a fourth single, \"Full Circle\" b/w \"Things Will Be Better\", was released in the UK in August 1975, almost two-and-a-half years after the album had first appeared, but this too failed to reach the charts.\n\nUpon its release, the album suffered from generally poor reviews, with Jon Landau, in an April 1973 edition of \"Rolling Stone\" magazine, criticizing it as \"one of the dullest albums of the year.\" Landau went on to note the disunity evident on the album: \"It is a different band for each of the four lead singers and while they make complementary music, it is never a continuous piece, which is what the Byrds were once all about.\" Reviewing the album in \"Creem\", Robert Christgau gave it a \"C\" and faulted Crosby for this \"country-rock supersession\", performed by \"a bunch of stars fabricating a paper reconciliation\" rather than a \"a group, committed however fractiously to a coherent collective identity\". In fact, the consensus of most reviewers was that there was a lack of unity throughout the album and that the band's trademark jingle-jangle guitar sound was largely absent from the record. However, there were some positive reviews of the album, with Danny Halloway enthusiastically praising it in the March 31, 1973 edition of the \"NME\": \"The Byrds have overcome the novelty of reforming and really do cut it here. The band's direction is no-nonsense, straight-ahead music. There's not any cultural preaching or sloppy outtakes as intros ... I'm glad to report that The Byrds make it on the strength of the music alone.\"\n\nThe largely unenthusiastic press reaction to the album caused the individual members of the band to lose faith in the concept of an ongoing, periodic series of band reunions and ultimately, all five members returned to their own careers following the album's release. In the following years, the band themselves would echo many of the sentiments expressed by the music press, with the general consensus being that the recording of the album was rushed and ill-thought out. Clark offered his thoughts on the album during a 1977 interview: \"I am disappointed in that album. Some of the harsh criticism is unjust, because, if you listen to it carefully, the album isn't that bad, but it just hasn't got the punch that it could have had if we'd taken the time.\" Hillman concurred with Clark, telling the Byrds' biographer Johnny Rogan, \"In all honesty, we didn't have enough time on the album. They gave us one-and-a-half months to do that album, expecting guys to regroup after a five to six year absence.\" Hillman also cited the band's eagerness to avoid conflict as a contributing factor to the album's artistic failure: \"everybody was so afraid of stepping on the other person's feet because of the tension that had gone down six years prior to that, that it became a bland album. Everybody was being too nice to each other.\" McGuinn blamed the reunion album's lack of success, at least partly, on the hedonism exhibited by members of the band during the recording process: \"David had this incredibly strong pot. Half a joint and you couldn't do anything. We were stoned out of our minds the whole time. I don't remember much recording.\"\n\nIn addition, author John Einarson has suggested that none of the parties—save for perhaps Clark—seemed willing to contribute their best material to the album, instead holding back their finest songs for their own individual solo projects. This has been confirmed by Hillman, who told Einarson, \"I'll be honest, I contributed my worst material because I was getting ready to do a solo record, \"Slipping Away\", and I was saving all my good stuff and contributed this throwaway stuff that was awful. Crosby's stuff was sketchy and Roger had 'Born To Rock & Roll', which was terrible, yuck.\" McGuinn also supported the suggestion that some band members had held back their best material, although he added, \"I don't think I was guilty of that. I gave them my best stuff at the time.\"\n\nThe timing of the album, between Crosby, Stills, Nash & Young reunions, the fact that it was produced by Crosby, and the presence of the individual band members' names on the album cover has led to the suggestion that the album was intended as something of a substitute for CSNY. For his part, Crosby's motivation for taking over production duties on the album may have been an attempt to finally exert dominance over the rest of the band, as he had tried to do during his earlier tenure with the Byrds. McGuinn certainly supported this viewpoint, as he revealed in a 1977 interview: \"Crosby was calling the shots. It was his \"coup d'état\". He wanted to minimize my importance in the group, and maximize his, and other people's.\" In Crosby's defense, it is worth noting that both McGuinn and Hillman were actively touring between recording sessions for the album, the former with the Columbia version of the Byrds and the latter with Manassas. With only sporadic availability of two of the band's four creative parties, the brunt of assembling the album was left to the otherwise unengaged Crosby and Clark, which could account for the preponderance of Clark vocals and the CSNY-esque production on the album.\n\n\"Byrds\" has been reissued on CD a number of times: first by Elektra Records in 1990; then again in 1998 by WEA; then in 2004 as a remastered edition on Wounded Bird Records; and again by Rhino Records in 2005 and 2008. Most recently, the album has been reissued by Raven Records in 2014, with the addition of two previously released bonus tracks, both recorded by Clark in 1971 and featuring all five members of the Byrds.\n\n\n\n\n\nAdapted from the books \"So You Want To Be A Rock 'n' Roll Star: The Byrds Day-By-Day\", \"The Byrds: Timeless Flight Revisited\" and the album liner notes.\n\nThe Byrds\n\nAdditional personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "2208711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208711", "title": "Mevius", "text": "Mevius\n\n, previously called , is a Japanese brand of cigarettes, currently owned and manufactured by Japan Tobacco.\n\nMevius was launched in 1977 under the name Mild Seven and was intended to be a mild version of the Seven Stars brand in Japan in 1977, it was launched overseas in 1981. It is the first brand that adopted the charcoal filter in American blend in Japan. Initially it was designed to treat Mild Seven similar to Seven Stars, but in accordance with the fact that JT changed the F1 participation brand from Cabin (another Japanese brand owned by JT) to Mild Seven in 1994, the vertical blue left side of the white background was changed to a belt design. At the time of this, the advertising slogan \"\"The blue world of mild seven\"\" was used in the television commercials, and after that blue became the colour of choice for the brand. \n\nThe cigarettes are the third most widely smoked cigarette in the world with 76.5 billion around the world, behind Marlboro and Camel. The Mevius under the Mild Seven name has been a top seller since its creation in 1977 and is the second largest cigarette brand in the world.\n\nOn August 8, 2012, Japan Tobacco announced that the longtime Mild Seven brand name would be changed to Mevius, due to legislation around the branding of cigarettes as \"mild\" in some countries; and in an attempt to strengthen the brand's \"premium image\". The name change began in Japan in February, followed by Singapore and Korea the following month.\n\nIn 2006, it was reported that counterfeit Mild Seven cigarettes were smuggled and sold outside of Japan. \n\nThe pack design is very similar but the quality of the cigarettes such as scent and taste are not. The tobacco used in the counterfeit cigarettes is not comparable with genuine brands. \n\nAccording to the survey results both inside and outside of Japan, there is strong suspicion that these fake cigarette are manufactured as a part of the foreign currency fund acquisition activity by North Korea.\n\nIn December 2007, Japan Tobacco recalled some of the Mild Seven brand cigarettes sold in stores in Tokyo and neighbouring prefectures because of faulty filters.\n\nJapan Tobacco said 14,500 cigarettes would be recalled, including 2,500 faulty ones, which were shipped to 225 stores in Tokyo and three other prefectures on December 13, 2007. The faulty filters of the cigarettes were not glued on properly and were likely to come off, the company said. \n\nJapan Tobacco planned to finish the recall by the end of Wednesday, said company spokeswoman Shoko Hamamoto.\n\nIn September 2017, it was reported that JTI Korea had been paying Instagram users who had a lot of followers to post photos of its Mevius brand cigarettes, according to a document obtained by The Korea Times.\n\nIn return, Instagram \"influencers,\" most of whom were men in their 20s and 30s, are said to have received as much as 5 million Won ($4,400) for each post. These photos primarily aim to spark interest in Mevius among women who follow young, fashion-savvy men who upload photos of their daily lives. A bigger program with JTI's marketing on the photo-centered social networking service (SNS) platform is that underage users are indiscriminately exposed to these photos glamorizing cigarettes because anyone, regardless of age, can join Instagram and view pictures posted by others. In Korea's \"\"Tobacco Business Act\"\", there are no specific rules yet governing cigarette makers' marketing and sales activities on Instagram, Facebook and other SNS platforms. \n\nOne Instagram user came forward and informed The Korea Times of Instagram Influencer Guidelines to let the public know about JTI Korea's dubious SNS marketing. He said he was approached by a person from JTI Korea's marketing team in June 2017. \"\"JTI systematically recruited young male Instagram users who have at least 10,000 followers\"\" the user said anonymously. \"\"I heard they were offered 4 to 5 million Won for each post for a month, depending on the number of their followers. The users were given this piece of paper outlining how they should take photos and depict them\"\". The company's marketing tactic is disgraceful, he said, stressing minors, particularly young girls, have been exposed to hundreds of photos that beautify smoking. \"\"Many young girls closely follow these handsome men in their 20s and 30s who regularly post photos of their well-shaped bodies. They have certainly viewed many of these Mevius pictures\"\" the user said. \"\"I decided to let people know about JTI's unethical marketing, due to concerns that teenagers may become more inclined to smoke cigarettes\"\".\n\nJTI's guidelines outline how Instagram users take photos and what phrases they should use when depicting photos. However, JTI Korea denied drawing up such guidelines, stressing it had never conducted marketing on SNS. \"\"Our company's internal policies forbid illegal marketing activities\"\" a company official said. \"\"JTI Korea strictly observes all relevant domestic laws in our business affairs\"\".\n\nThere has been a controversy online about the spread of rumors that Mild Seven is manufacturing tobacco leaves near the Fukushima nuclear plant accident in Japan. Some have suggested that Mild Seven changed its name to Mevius in order to avoid such suspicion. However, the controversy was overcome by JTI Korea 's official statement that \"Mevius does not use Japanese tobacco at all\"\n\nJapan Tobacco was, through Mild Seven, the title sponsor of the Benetton Formula One team beginning with the 1994 Formula One season. This association continued after Benetton was acquired by Renault. It was to remain with Renault F1 until the end of the 2009 Formula One season, but due to European Tobacco Regulations, the company had to end their association with Renault at the end of the 2006 Formula One season and ING became their main sponsor from 2007 onwards.\n\nNext to Benetton and Renault, Mild Seven sponsored both Tyrrell Racing, from 1994 to 1996, and Minardi in 1997 as a result of a sponsorship deal with Japanese driver Ukyo Katayama.\n\nAt the end of the 1990s to early 2000s, Japanese tobacco companies were not allowed to advertise their products in China due to the still lingering tensions of World War II. So Japan Tobacco decided to hold an \"Eco-challenge\" style adventure race – sponsored by Mild Seven cigarettes. Thus was born the \"\"Mild Seven Outdoor Quest\"\". Dan Morris was the official photographer for this event from 1997-2001. This event took him to a number of beautiful spots in Western China including Dali City, Lijiang and Xijiang (home of the Chinese space program). Top athletes such as Team Eco-Internet, Mike Pigg and Paula Newby-Fraser would regularly compete in this event.\n\nIn 2001, Mild Seven was the official sponsor of the \"\"Mild Seven Pool Challenge\"\".\n\nDuring the 1980s and 1990s, JTI created various TV advertisements to promote Mild Seven cigarettes, both in English and Japanese.\n\nVarious poster advertisements were also made to advertise both Mild Seven and Mevius cigarettes.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Mild Seven also appeared on busses as an advertisement in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nMevius is mainly sold in Japan, but also was or still is sold in the United Kingdom, Germany, Austria, Poland, Belarus, Russia, Morocco, Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Thailand, Cambodia, Vietnam, Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, Myanmar, South Korea and the United States.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208715", "title": "Charles IV, Duke of Alençon", "text": "Charles IV, Duke of Alençon\n\nCharles IV of Alençon (2 September 1489 in Alençon – 11 April 1525 in Lyon) was the son of René of Alençon and Margaret of Vaudémont.\n\nHe succeeded his father in 1492 as Duke of Alençon and Count of Perche, and was also Count of Armagnac, Fézensac, Viscount of Rodez, Count of Fezensaguet, l'Isle-Jourdain, and Perdiac.\n\nIn 1509 he married Margaret of Angoulême, sister to Francis, Duke of Valois, who would in 1515 become King Francis I of France. Their marriage was childless: his wife was allowed to retain most of his titles.\n\nAs first prince of the blood, Charles was a prominent figure in the early part of his brother-in-law's reign. Made governor of Normandy, Charles fought at Marignano in 1515, and in 1521 defended Champagne against an imperial invasion. He accompanied his brother-in-law on his second expedition to Italy in 1525, and after the disaster at Pavia, took command of the defeated French forces, leading them in retreat back to French territory. He was made a scapegoat for the defeat and accused of abandoning the king, and died soon after. Although Charles had a sister, Françoise, who survived him, his widow took possession of his lands after his death.\n"}
{"id": "2208730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208730", "title": "Denver Center for the Performing Arts", "text": "Denver Center for the Performing Arts\n\nThe Denver Center for the Performing Arts (DCPA) is an organization in Denver, Colorado which provides a showcase for live theatre, a nurturing ground for new plays, a preferred stop on the Broadway touring circuit, acting classes for the community and rental facilities. It was founded in 1972.\n\nThe Denver Center for the Performing Arts is the largest tenant of the Denver Performing Arts Complex which is a four-block, site containing ten performance spaces with over 10,000 seats. It is owned and partially operated by Arts and Venues Denver.\n\nBoth organizations were the vision of Donald Seawell. Finding himself at 14th and Curtis streets in downtown Denver one day and looking at the old Auditorium Theatre and the surrounding four blocks, Seawell had an idea for a first-class arts complex. Seawells original vision was much broader and included other entities (see Previous Entities below) which no longer are part of the Center.\n\nGround was broken in December 1974. By 1978 Boettcher Concert Hall — the nation's first in-the-round concert hall — was completed, along with an eight-story, 1,700-space parking garage. By 1979 the Auditorium Theatre had been renovated (and was completely renovated again in 2005, creating the state-of-the-art Ellie Caulkins Opera House inside of the historic Auditorium), two cabaret spaces had been added and the Helen G. Bonfils Theatre Complex opened with its four theatres: The Stage, Space, Source (now Jones) and Ricketson. The Temple Hoyne Buell Theatre was completed in 1991, the Seawell Grand Ballroom was added in 1998 and The Conservatory Theatre opened in 2002.\n\nThe Denver Center for the Performing Arts is currently the largest tenant of the Denver Performing Arts Complex. The Denver Center organizes, oversees, and presents work by the following entities:\n\nList of concert halls\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208741", "title": "Being Eve", "text": "Being Eve\n\nBeing Eve is a television series from New Zealand, originally shown on TV3 from 2001–2002, and rebroadcast on The N. \"Being Eve\" focuses on a teenage girl, Eve Baxter, and her daily problems. Her parents are divorced but live next door to each other. Eve was in love with a boy named Adam. They broke up at the beginning of the second season, and she ends up with another boy named Sam Hooper, with whom she had her first kiss when they were kids.\n\n\n\nSouth Pacific Pictures released \"Being Eve\" on DVD in Region 4 for on . Both seasons were combined on the same DVD release.\n"}
{"id": "2208743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208743", "title": "Switzerland at the 1896 Summer Olympics", "text": "Switzerland at the 1896 Summer Olympics\n\nThree competitors from Switzerland competed in two sports at the 1896 Summer Olympics. The Swiss won one championship and placed second in two more events, for a total of three medals. They had 8 entries in 5 events.\n\nAll of Switzerland's medals were won by Zutter in the gymnastics competitions. Zutter's only event that did not result in a medal was in the horizontal bar. Champaud (see Bulgaria at the 1896 Summer Olympics) entered three events, but did not medal in any.\n\nBaumann took 8th of 42 in the military rifle competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208744", "title": "Macro-engineering", "text": "Macro-engineering\n\nIn engineering, macro-engineering (alternatively known as macroengineering or macro engineering and as mega engineering) is the implementation of extremely large-scale design projects. It can be seen as a branch of civil engineering or structural engineering but just on a very large land area. In particular, macro-engineering is the process of marshaling and managing of resources, technology and public opinion on a large scale to carry out complex tasks that last over a long period.\n\nIn contrast to conventional engineering projects, macro-engineering projects (called macro-projects or mega-projects) are multidisciplinary, involving collaboration from all fields of study; they involve not only engineers, but scientists, lawyers, industrialists, soldiers and politicians as well. Macro-projects are usually international; they override political boundaries because most countries lack the social, financial or physical ability to undertake them alone. As a consequence, macro-projects have the power to fundamentally transform their areas of focus.\n\nMacro-engineering is an evolving field that is only recently receiving attention. Because we routinely deal with challenges that are multinational in scope, such as global warming and pollution, macro-engineering is emerging as a transcendent solution to worldwide problems. Macro-engineering, or mega-engineering, is distinct from megascale engineering which deals with projects on a planetary or stellar scale. Where macro-engineering is currently practical, mega-scale engineering is still within the domain of speculative fiction.\n\nPast macro-projects include the construction of the Panama Canal and Suez Canal, the Channel Tunnel and the planned Gibraltar Tunnel, the construction of cross-country oil pipelines, and most recently, a multinational effort to standardize satellite communication.\n\nTwo intellectual centers focused on macro-engineering theory and practice are the Candida Oancea Institute in Bucharest, Romania, and The Center for Macro Projects and Diplomacy at Roger Williams University in Bristol, Rhode Island, United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208748", "title": "Super black", "text": "Super black\n\nSuper black is a surface treatment developed at the National Physical Laboratory (NPL) in the United Kingdom. It absorbs approximately 99.6% of visible light at normal incidence, while conventional black paint absorbs about 97.5%. At other angles of incidence, super black is even more effective: at an angle of 45°, it absorbs 99.9% of light.\n\nThe technology to create super black involves chemically etching a nickel–phosphorus alloy.\n\nApplications of super black are in specialist optical instruments for reducing unwanted reflections. The disadvantage of this material is its low optical thickness, as it is a surface treatment. As a result, infrared light of a wavelength longer than a few micrometers penetrates through the dark layer and has much higher reflectivity. The reported spectral dependence increases from about 1% at 3 µm to 50% at 20 µm.\n\nIn 2009, a competitor to the super black material, Vantablack, was developed based on carbon nanotubes. It has a relatively flat reflectance in a wide spectral range.\n\nIn 2011, NASA and the US Army began funding research in the use of nanotube-based super black coatings in sensitive optics.\nNanotube-based superblack arrays and coatings have recently become commercially available.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208749", "title": "John Egerton, 6th Duke of Sutherland", "text": "John Egerton, 6th Duke of Sutherland\n\nJohn Sutherland Egerton, 6th Duke of Sutherland, (10 May 1915 – 21 September 2000) was a British peer from the Egerton family. He was styled Viscount Brackley until 1944 when he became the 5th Earl of Ellesmere on inheriting his father's substantive title and inherited his ducal title in 1963 from a distant cousin.\n\nThe son of John Egerton, 4th Earl of Ellesmere and Lady Violet Lambton, he was educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge. He travelled to France with the British Expeditionary Force and was captured at St Valery in 1940. He spent four years in a prisoner of war camp. Upon his return in 1944, he succeeded his father as Earl of Ellesmere.\n\nIn 1963, George Sutherland-Leveson-Gower, 5th Duke of Sutherland, his distant cousin 'Geordie', died, leaving no immediate male heir. Egerton succeeded to the dukedom, but did not inherit the Sutherland estates or Dunrobin Castle, which went to Elizabeth Janson, Geordie's niece, who became the Countess of Sutherland. \nEstate duty forced the Duke to sell many pieces from the family's renowned collection of paintings and drawings. The family's wealth had shifted from landholdings to an estimated £120m collection of paintings which included Raphaels, Titians, Tintorettos, Poussins, and a large part of the famous Orléans collection from the Palais Royal in Paris. The wealth had come from the acquisitions of the third Duke of Bridgewater, who built the famous canal and passed on his mining riches, and from intermarriage. Benjamin Disraeli once paid tribute to the family's \"talent for absorbing heiresses\".\n\nDespite the hundreds of paintings the Duke was forced to sell, he retained the Dutch masters for Mertoun. The Scottish National Gallery in Edinburgh had a number of notable paintings in its possession on long-term loan from the Duke of Sutherland's estate, including pieces by Titian, El Greco, Raphael and van Dyck (one of which, the \"Venus Anadyomene\", was bought by the gallery after his death towards inheritance tax). The Duke made it clear, by selling Bridgewater House in London, that he was abandoning metropolitan pursuits. He maintained the family horse racing tradition.\n\nA Conservative, he took his seat in the Lords in 1945, but eschewed his right to vote or speak for more than half a century. He did find his political voice as a Berwickshire county councillor.\n\nThe sixth duke kept a very local profile. In 1984 he sold four masterpieces to fund improving his garden for opening to the public. In 1994 he disagreed when the National Gallery of Scotland sought to rehouse some of his paintings in a new gallery in Glasgow, preferring them to be dispersed around Scotland.\n\nSutherland married Lady Diana Percy (23 November 1917 – 16 June 1978), daughter of Alan Percy, 8th Duke of Northumberland, on 29 April 1939. Following the death of his first wife, on 16 August 1979 he married Evelyn Moubray, a former interior decorator who shared his love of fishing. There were no children from either marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208754", "title": "Edgar Bain", "text": "Edgar Bain\n\nEdgar Collins Bain (September 14, 1891 – November 27, 1971) was an American metallurgist and member of the National Academy of Sciences, who worked for the US Steel Corporation of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He worked on the alloying and heat treatment of steel; Bainite is named in his honor.\n\nHe was born near LaRue, Ohio to Milton Henry (of Scottish descent) and Alice Anne Collins Bain. He graduated with a B.S. from Ohio State University in 1912. He received his M.S. in 1916 and his Ph.D. in 1919 both from Ohio State. His written works include \"Functions of the Alloying Elements in Steel\", published by ASM International. He died on November 27, 1971 in Edgeworth, Pennsylvania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208756", "title": "Torstein Rudihagen", "text": "Torstein Rudihagen\n\nTorstein Rudihagen (born 14 August 1952 in Sør-Fron) is a Norwegian politician for the Labour Party.\n\nIn his early career, he worked as a teacher. He began his political career in the municipality council of Sør-Fron, to which he was elected in 1983. He later became mayor, a seat he filled from 1991 to 1997. On 3 March 1995 he was appointed State Secretary in the Ministry of Transport, under the Brundtland's Third Cabinet. When Brundtland resigned and Thorbjørn Jagland formed a new government, Rudihagen retained his job as State Secretary. However, he lost the job when the cabinet fell in 1997.\n\nIn the election of 1997, he was elected to the Parliament of Norway from his home county of Oppland. He has been re-elected on two occasions.\n"}
{"id": "2208764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208764", "title": "Jan Kubis", "text": "Jan Kubis\n\nJan Kubis may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2208771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208771", "title": "Out of the Silent Planet (album)", "text": "Out of the Silent Planet (album)\n\nOut of the Silent Planet is the debut studio by the American progressive metal band King's X, released in 1988. The title of the album comes from that of a book by C.S. Lewis, an author favored by band members Ty Tabor and Jerry Gaskill. \"Out of the Silent Planet\" is also the title of the first track from the follow up album \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\". The cover art features the skyline of Houston with the southern outline of the state of Texas. The album received widespread acclaim from music contemporaries. Pantera Bassist Rex Brown commented of his and Dimebag Darrell's impressions, noting \"Dime called me and said, ‘Dude, have you heard this? Have you checked out King’s X?'” he says. “We went on a long road trip, and we must have listened to that first record I don’t know how many times. And we couldn’t stop. … This was the sound that Dime and I were always looking for.”\n\nAll songs written by Gaskill/Pinnick/Tabor, except \"Sometimes\" and \"Far, Far Away\" written by Pinnick/Tabor/Gaskill/Marty Warren.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208775", "title": "Queen Margaret University", "text": "Queen Margaret University\n\nQueen Margaret University, Edinburgh (formerly Queen Margaret University College and Queen Margaret College) is a public university, founded in 1875 and located in Musselburgh, Scotland. It is named after Saint Margaret, wife of King Malcolm III of Scotland. Its predecessor, Queen Margaret University College, was awarded full university status becoming \"Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh\" in January 2007.\n\nThe University was founded in 1875, as \"The Edinburgh School of Cookery and Domestic Economy\", by Christian Guthrie Wright and Louisa Stevenson, both members of the Edinburgh Ladies' Educational Association. The School was founded as a women-only institution, with twin aims of improving women's access to higher education and improving the diets of working class families. Teaching was initially delivered via lectures at the Royal Museum, supplemented by a programme of public lectures and demonstrations delivered nationwide, but in 1877 the School established a base at Shandwick Place, in Haymarket.\n\nThe school moved in 1891 to Atholl Crescent, expanding its courses and offering residential places to students. In 1909, the School was designated a Central Institution and brought under the public control of the Scottish Education Department. The first Principal appointed was Ethel De la Cour. De la Cour retired in 1930, and in the same year the School became the \"Edinburgh College of Domestic Science\".\n\nIn 1961, the College acquired its Corstorphine campus, purchasing a portion of the Clermiston estate from developers. The campus was first occupied by the College in 1970, opened by Princess Alice, Duchess of Gloucester who was Patron of the institution until her death in 2004. In 1972, the name \"Queen Margaret College\" was adopted to dissociate the College from the narrow field of domestic science. Thereafter, the College broadened its range of courses, especially in the dramatic arts and paramedical healthcare fields. The following institutions have since been absorbed by Queen Margaret College:\n\n\nIn 1992, the Privy Council granted Queen Margaret College powers to award its own taught degrees, and in 1998, the College was granted full degree powers, which enabled it to award its own research and higher degrees. As a result, in 1999 the College took the name \"Queen Margaret University College\". After the University College attained the final criteria of acquiring a minimum of 5000 students (something that could not be gained earlier as the campuses could not accommodate this number of students), the institution was awarded full university status, becoming \"Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh\" in January 2007.\n\nIn 2012, QMU became the first university in Scotland to have a Business Gateway on campus.\n\nScotland’s First Minister, Alex Salmond announced in May 2010 that QMU was to be the official host of the archives for Homecoming Scotland 2009. The Homecoming Scotland Archive will provide the University with a unique opportunity to collect, catalogue and preserve materials associated with Scottish Homecoming 2009 for the benefit of people in both Scotland and across the world.\n\nBefore moving to a new campus in Musselburgh, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh had been based in campuses in Corstorphine (to the West of Edinburgh), in Leith, and at the Gateway Theatre – Scotland's International Drama Centre – (a former television studio previously owned by Scottish Television) on Elm Row, Leith Walk.\n\nIn 2007-2008, the university brought together students from its three campuses in Edinburgh by moving to a new purpose-built campus in Musselburgh. Costing £100 million, the new campus covers and holds educational buildings, a students union, a small gym and halls of residence of more than 800 rooms.\n\nQMU has been \"touted as the country's greenest University campus\". The campus was designed by Dyer Architects to exceed current environmental standards and sets a new benchmark in sustainable design. The entire development transformed a site from low-grade farmland into landscaped parkland.\n\nIn June 2015, Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh announced it would hold public consultations for plans to build a new innovation park and shopping hub on open land around the Musselburgh campus. Site proposals are being developed by CAM-SCI, a Cambridge-based economic consultancy, which has developed science parks across the UK.\n\nThe Learning Resource Centre (LRC) comprises approximately of the main academic building. Located at the heart of the campus, it provides library, IT and AV services to students, staff and visitors of the university. The LRC consists of a facility for both directed and self-directed study, based on an integrated library and information service provision. The LRC has 1,000 study spaces organised as a mixture of silent and group study areas, bookable group study rooms, training rooms, assistive technology, student learning support and a postgraduate study room.\n\nThe Education Resource Centre provides audio-visual services to the university. This includes the provision of AV equipment in classrooms and lecture theatres as well as more specialised services such as graphics, photography, video-conferencing and TV studio facilities.\n\nFollowing restructuring in early 2010, the Schools of Social Sciences, Media and Communication, Business, Enterprise and Management, and Drama and Creative Industries were merged. The present Dean is Professor Brigid Daniel. The School offers courses in 'Business, Enterprise and Management'; 'Governance, Justice and Public Management'; 'Hospitality and Gastronomy'; Creativity and Culture'; and 'Public Relations' .\n\nQMU is part of the Scottish Drama Training Network which was set up by the Scottish Funding Council in 2010 to foster cohesion across stage and screen professional practice, education and training. Through the Network, QMU in partnership with Edinburgh Napier University delivers the BA (Hons) Acting for Stage and Screen.\n\nThe School is the only institution in Scotland that is accredited by the Chartered Institute of Public Relations to deliver the postgraduate CIPR Diploma in Public Relations. The School's Bachelor of Science (BSc) courses in psychology; MSc in Health Psychology are accredited by the British Psychological Society.\n\nBA (Hons) in Media graduate, Agata Jagodzinska, was awarded for Best Writer at the BAFTA in Scotland New Talent Awards 2012.\n\nIt is also only one of three places in Scotland to offer a degree in Costume.\n\nThe School of Health Sciences offers courses in dietetics, nutrition and biological sciences; nursing; speech and language therapy, audiology, occupational therapy and art therapy; physiotherapy; podiatry; radiography; art psychotherapy, dance movement psychotherapy and music therapy.\n\nThe subject area of Speech and Hearing Sciences won the Queen's Anniversary Prize for research into the clinical applications of speech technology in 2002 carried out in the Speech Science Research Centre.\n\nIn October 2016, celebrity chef Prue Leith became Chancellor, succeeding Sir Tom Farmer.\n\nSir Paul Grice assumed the role of Principal and Vice Chancellor in October 2019. He was Chief Executive and Clerk of the Scottish Parliament prior to his appointment at Queen Margaret University succeeding Professor Petra Wend.\n\nPetra Wend joined Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh, as Principal and Vice-Chancellor in September 2009. She originally read Italian and French Language and Literature, and Education at the University of Münster in Germany and gained a PhD in Italian Language and Literature at University of Leeds. Following a series of positions at UK universities, she joined Oxford Brookes University as Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) and Deputy Chief Executive in 2005. She retired from her position in 2019.\n\nIn June 2012 the management team at Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh, was presented with the Times Higher Education Leadership and Management Team Award.\n\nQMU won the e-Government National Award 2010 in the category for sustainable, ‘green IT’ or ‘carbon-efficient’ services. In autumn 2010 it picked up gold at the Scottish Green Awards, and in 2009 it won an award for a waste management project, as well as a Green Apple Award.\n\nThe university has three flagships: health and rehabilitation; creativity and culture; and sustainable business.\n\nQueen Margaret University, Edinburgh, has seven research centres:\n\n\nThe University operates an open access repository of the research output of the university, called eResearch, with the intention of making the work of researchers open and available to the public via the web.\n\nQueen Margaret University, Edinburgh, researchers in food and drink in partnerships with Advanced Microwave Technologies Ltd (AMT), won two major awards for innovation and partnership in 2012 for their collaboration to explore the application of microwave technologies to the food and drink sector.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208781", "title": "Maharees", "text": "Maharees\n\nMaharees or Magharees () is a 5 km long tombolo located on the northern side of the Dingle Peninsula in County Kerry, Ireland. \n\nFenit Harbour, the main port of County Kerry, is sheltered from large Atlantic swells by the Maharees. To the north of the Maharees lie the Magharee Islands or \"Seven Hogs\", the largest of which, Oileán t-Seanaigh/Illauntannig, contains remnants of an early Christian monastic settlement, said to have been founded by St. Senan in the 7th century AD. \n\nThe peninsula is a sandy spit for much of its length, with sand dunes giving way to earth and rocky ground towards the northern end. The sand dunes create a unique ecosystem, home to the rare Natterjack toad which is found locally in significant quantities. Lengthy beaches are found on both sides of the peninsula, which separates Brandon Bay on the western side from Tralee Bay to the east. The Brandon Bay beaches are open to the North Atlantic and often receive long rolling swells, which can provide excellent surf given suitable wind and tide conditions. \n\nThe peninsula is dotted with campgrounds and caravan parks and contains three hamlets, Fahamore, Kilshannig, and Candeehy, which are home to local pubs and restaurants popular with visitors to the area. Castlegregory Golf and Fishing club is a nine-hole links golf course located at the base of the peninsula, and a 5-star PADI certified dive centre is located at the fishing harbour at Scraggane Bay. Several windsurfing and surf schools are also located at the beaches on the Maharees. Maheree Island Tours and Angling is based at Scraggane Pier. Yachting facilities, a marina, and a sheltered harbour are located a few miles east at Fenit.\n"}
{"id": "2208791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208791", "title": "Béni Kállay", "text": "Béni Kállay\n\nBéni Kállay de Nagy-Kálló or Benjamin von Kállay (; – ) was an Austro-Hungarian statesman.\n\nKállay was born in Pest (today part of Budapest). His family derived their name from their estates at Nagykálló, in Szabolcs, and claimed descent from the Balogh Semsen tribe, which had settled the area of the historical Borsod County, Szabolcs County, and Szatmár County in the late 9th century. They played a prominent part in Hungarian history as early as the reign of King Coloman (1070–1116); and from King Matthias Corvinus (1458–1490) they received their estates at Mezőtúr, near Kecskemét, granted to Mihály Kállay for his heroic defense of Jajce in Bosnia.\n\nStephan von Kállay, Benjamin's father, a superior official of the Hungarian government, died in 1845, and his widow, who survived until 1902, devoted herself to the education of her five-year-old son. Amalie von Kállay née Blašković de Ebetske, was of Serbian descent. She took over the care of Kállay's education and directed his interest to Slavic studies in general and particularly to Serbian history. She spoke Serbian and it is very likely that her son heard some of her reminiscences relating to the country of her ancestors. She engaged an excellent teacher in the person of Mihály Táncsics, a well-known populist tribune and revolutionary writer of Serb and Slovak descent, who was once imprisoned by the Austrians for seditious writings in 1847–48 and again in 1860 (the same Buda jail that Lajos Kossuth was incarcerated from 1837–40). At an early age Kállay manifested a deep interest in politics, and especially in the Eastern Question. He traveled in Russia, European Turkey and Asia Minor, gaining a thorough knowledge of Greek, Turkish, and several Slavic languages. He became as proficient in Serbian as in his native tongue.\n\nIn 1867 he entered the Diet of Hungary as Conservative deputy for Mühlbach (Szászsebes); in 1869 he was appointed consul-general at Belgrade, and in 1872 he visited the Vilayet of Bosnia for the first time. His views on Balkan questions strongly influenced Count Andrássy, the Austro-Hungarian minister for foreign affairs. Leaving Belgrade in 1875, he resumed his seat in the Diet, and shortly afterward founded the journal \"Kelet Népe\", or \"People of the East\", in which he defended the vigorous policy of Andrássy.\n\nAfter the Russo-Turkish War of 1878 he went to Plovdiv (modern Bulgaria) as Austro-Hungarian envoy extraordinary on the International Eastern Rumelian Commission. In 1879, he became second, and soon afterward first, departmental chief at the foreign office in Vienna. On 4 June 1882. he was appointed Austro-Hungarian minister of finance and administrator of the Condominium of Bosnia and Herzegovina, and the distinction with which he filled this office, for a period of 21 years, is his chief title of fame.\n\nKállay was an honorary member of the Budapest and Vienna academies of science, and attained some eminence as a writer. He translated John Stuart Mill's \"On Liberty\" into Hungarian, adding an introductory critique; while his version of \"Galatea\", a play by the Greek dramatist Spiridion N. Basiliades (1843–1874), proved successful on the Hungarian stage. His monographs on Serbian history (\"Geschichte der Serben\") was translated into Serbian by Gavrilo Vitković, and on the Oriental ambition of Russia (\"Die Orientpolitik Russlands\") was translated into German by J. H. Schwicker and published at Leipzig in 1878. But in his own opinion, his masterpiece was an academic oration on the political and geographical position of Hungary as a link between East and West.\n\nIn 1873, Kállay married the Countess Vilma Bethlen de Bethlen. They had three surviving daughters and a son:\n 1. Ilona Kállay de Nagy-Kálló (d. 1908)\n\nHis popularity in Bosnia was partly due to the tact and personal charm of his wife. \n\nBenjamin died in Vienna on 13 July 1903, while his wife Vilma outlived him for more than 37 years and died in Nógrádberczel on 25 August 1940.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208793", "title": "Sian Lloyd (news presenter)", "text": "Sian Lloyd (news presenter)\n\nSian Lloyd (born 7 August 1968) is a Welsh television news presenter, currently working for BBC News as their Wales correspondent.\n\nSian Lloyd was born in Bangor, Gwynedd. Her father's family were from Criccieth, where she spent most summers. Lloyd grew up in Wrexham, and speaks Welsh, English and French. She had a weekend job as a teenager at the National Trust's Erddig Hall. Lloyd gained an LLB in law at the University of Leicester, before completing her Law Society Finals with Honours at The College of Law Chester.\n\nLloyd trained as a solicitor with Lovell White Durrant in London and Hong Kong.\n\nLloyd began her career as a journalist in North Wales as a newsreader for Marcher Coast FM in Colwyn Bay before joining BBC Wales as a reporter 1996, and then having moved to Cardiff went on to present \"Good Evening Wales\" for radio, and then \"BBC Wales Today\" on television.\n\nLloyd has taken part in many Welsh language TV programmes on S4C including: cookery challenge \"Dudley: Pryd o Sêr\"; comedy chat show \"Sioe Tudur Owen\"; magazine programme \"Heno\"; and Welsh learners programme \"Hwb\". Lloyd was part of the BBC Wales team of presenters covering the National Eisteddfod of Wales 2011, and has been a judge for the Learner of the Year competition 2012.\n\nLloyd is currently working for BBC News as their Midlands correspondent. As part of her correspondent role, Lloyd gives regular contributions to BBC's \"Crimewatch\" as a reporter. Since the move of various BBC programmes to MediaCityUK in Salford Quays, Manchester in 2012, Lloyd has become a regular relief presenter for \"BBC Breakfast\".\n\nSian lives in Cardiff with her husband and son.\n\nLloyd supports the Prince's Trust and the Duke of Edinburgh's Award Scheme, and is an ambassador for George Thomas Hospice Care. She has also acted as an ambassador for the Seren Network.\n"}
{"id": "2208798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208798", "title": "Betsy Hart", "text": "Betsy Hart\n\nBetsy Hart aka Betsy Meade (born c. 1963) is a professional writer for the conservative organization The Heritage Foundation, syndicated columnist for the Scripps Howard News and conservative commentator who is a frequent contributor to CNN and the Fox News Channel. She also appeared frequently on ABC's show \"Politically Incorrect\".\n\nHart wrote a column on family and cultural issues titled “From the Hart”. The column is distributed each week to hundreds of newspapers all over the country. It appears regularly in mainstream newspapers such as the Chicago Sun-Times, the Rocky Mountain News, the Boston Herald, The Washington Times, among many others. Her radio program is titled \"It Takes a Parent\" and is featured on Chicago’s WYLL/AM1160 radio.\n\nHart has also appeared on The Oprah Winfrey Show, where she was featured as one of America’s top five women columnists.\n\nHart is the mother of four children and author of the book \"It Takes a Parent: How the Culture of Pushover Parenting is Hurting Our Kids... and What to Do About It\". She is currently working on her next book \"Let's Look at Things a Little Differently.\" She is divorced her husband after 17 years of marriage and has since married Thomas Meade, a professor of chemistry at nearby Northwestern University. Betsy switches between identifying herself as Betsy Meade and Betsy Hart. She is raising her four children in Wilmette, a suburb of Chicago.\n\nHart believes that production and consumption of organic food is less safe and more expensive than conventionally produced food, although she admits that if \"people want to spend more on the stuff, that’s their deal.\" She does not believe that global warming is primarily a man-made condition. She thinks that comedy should not include cursing or masturbatory gestures. She also believes that schools not celebrating with Halloween parties is scary and Orwellian.\n\nIn 1985 she graduated from the University of Illinois with a B.A. in Russian Studies.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208810", "title": "KJLA", "text": "KJLA\n\nKJLA, virtual channel 57 (UHF digital channel 30), is an Azteca América-affiliated television station serving Los Angeles, California, United States that is licensed to Ventura. The station is owned by Costa de Oro Media, LLC, under the operation of Entravision Communications' chief executive officer Walter Ulloa (whose brother, Ronald Ulloa, owns Rancho Palos Verdes-licensed ethnic independent station KXLA (channel 44) and Twentynine Palms-licensed KVMD (channel 31)). KJLA's studios are located on Corinth Avenue (near Interstate 405) in West Los Angeles, and its transmitter is located atop Mount Wilson.\n\nKJLA operates two low-power repeater stations: KLFA-LD (channel 25) in Santa Maria and KFUL-LD (channel 44) in San Luis Obispo (both are part of the Santa Barbara market). In addition to carrying Spanish-language programming on its main channel, the station also carries various networks broadcasting in Vietnamese and Mandarin on separate digital subchannels.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on October 1, 1990 as KSTV-TV. It was the second attempt to operate a television station in Ventura; the first, KKOG-TV (channel 16), operated from December 14, 1968 to September 13, 1969, with a schedule of entirely live, local programming. KSTV-TV was originally owned by Costa de Oro Television, Inc., and originally aired Spanish-language programming as an affiliate of Galavisión. The station signed on a low-power translator in Santa Maria in 1992.\n\nIn 1994, Walter Ulloa purchased Costa de Oro Television and KSTV-TV, intending to increase its transmitting power and extend its signal to better reach to the Los Angeles area. However, although Ventura is considered part of the Los Angeles market, Federal Communications Commission (FCC) rules at the time placed KSTV-TV within the Santa Barbara–Santa Maria–San Luis Obispo market, similar to the situation of KADY-TV channel 63 (now KBEH-TV) in Oxnard, California which became Santa Barbara's UPN affiliate when the network launched in January 1995. Unable to get cable coverage in the Los Angeles area, on November 1, 1995, KSTV switched to an English-language format and became the WB affiliate for the Santa Barbara market.\nHowever, the station continued in its attempts to enter the Los Angeles market. In July 1997, KSTV increased its effective radiated power to 5,000 kilowatts. The improved signal helped the station to obtain must-carry status on most cable providers in western Los Angeles County in February 1998. However, because Los Angeles already had a WB-affiliated station, KTLA (channel 5), KSTV-TV was forced to disaffiliate from the network. In the spring of 1998, the station relocated its studios and offices from Ventura to West Los Angeles.\n\nThe station changed its call letters to KJLA on July 20, 1998, to further reflect its intentions to serve the Los Angeles market. On that date, KJLA became an independent station and adopted a split-scheduled format. The station began carrying financial news programming under the brand \"Business News 22\" acquired from KWHY-TV, later \"BizNews 1\" on weekday mornings and afternoons. Business news returned to KWHY-TV, this time only on its digital signal, in 2000, and was later dropped by KJLA.\n\nIn November 2001, the Simi Valley translator was moved to Mount Wilson and started broadcasting to Los Angeles as KSMV-LP on channel 33. Ironically, the original low power translator in Simi Valley operated on channel 44, which caused interference with full power \"cousin\" station KRPA (now KXLA) which prompted the change to channel 33. Soon after, Trinity Broadcasting Network sought to move KTBN-TV's digital operation from channel 23 to channel 33, to avoid co-channel interference from the digital signals of KVMD (another \"cousin\" of KJLA) in the Inland Empire and San Diego CW affiliate XETV, now a repeater of XHGC-TDT. KTBN's move to channel 33 was authorized on February 5, 2009, ultimately displacing KSMV-LP to KTBN's former digital channel, 23. KSMV-LP soon flash-cut to digital and started rebroadcasting KVMD to the Los Angeles area.\n\nThe following year in 2001, the station began branding its Spanish language programming block under the name LATV. In April 2007, LATV transitioned from a programming block on KJLA into a national network; it became distributed to several television stations (mainly carried on digital subchannels and low-power stations, with the subchannels of four stations owned by Post-Newsweek Stations and those owned by Entravision Communications among the network's charter affiliates).\n\nIn December 2017, it was announced that the station will become the Los Angeles market's Azteca América affiliate on January 3, 2018, replacing KAZA-TV, thus KVMD became the new affiliate of LATV in the Los Angeles market on January 1, 2018. Although the official switch to Azteca was not until January 3, the station started airing the majority of the network's programming on January 1 with an exception of shows that aired at the same time as KJLA's religious programming, which continued to air on the network until March. Various Azteca programs were delayed or not shown at all in order to make place for KJLA's religious program \"Cambia Tu Vida\", which aired various times a day. The program was removed from KJLA's schedule on March 19, 2018, and the station now airs Azteca's entire schedule \"live\" and in pattern.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nKJLA had applied to convert to a digital-only signal, citing low over-the-air analog viewership rates and high operating costs to maintain the simulcast; this request was refused by the FCC on February 9, 2005. The higher operating costs were in part due to KJLA having two different transmitter sites. The station's channel 57 analog transmitter was located on South Mountain near Santa Paula in Ventura County; the facilities for its channel 49 digital signal are located on Mount Wilson in Los Angeles County.\n\nKJLA shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 57, on August 27, 2008. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 49, using PSIP to display KJLA's virtual channel as 57 on digital television receivers, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition. KJLA is the second television station in the Los Angeles market to discontinue its analog signal, after KVMD, which shut down its analog signal in 2003.\n\nIn February 2014, KJLA and PBS member station KLCS (channel 58) were granted special temporary authority by the FCC to conduct trials in partnership with CTIA and the Association of Public Television Stations, in which the two stations would conduct a test of the H.264 video codec for digital television transmission, and more importantly, the ability and viability of broadcasting two sets of television services within the same 6 MHz channel band. These tests came as the FCC prepared to perform a spectrum auction in 2015 (which was delayed to sometime in 2016 that November), in which television station operators would be able to voluntarily sell their broadcast spectrum to the government, and then receive profits from its sale to wireless providers. An FCC spokesperson stated that channel sharing would allow broadcasters to \"[take] advantage of the incentive auction’s once-in-a-lifetime financial opportunity\", while still maintaining its ability to run over-the-air television programming.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208811", "title": "Luciano Pagliarini", "text": "Luciano Pagliarini\n\nLuciano André Pagliarini Mendonça (born April 18, 1978 in Arapongas, state of Paraná) is a retired Brazilian cyclist. A renowned sprinter, he has been regarded as one of Brazil's finest cyclists. Pagliarini has taken part in the road cycling race at 2004 Summer Olympics (from which he withdrew due to mechanical trouble) and the 2005 Tour de France (best position: 5th on stage 2, withdrawal on stage 9).\n\nDue to health problems, Pagliarini had a bad start in the 2007 season, until the Pan American Games in July, where he won the bronze medal. Ten days after the birth of his first daughter, he won the fifth stage of the Eneco Tour, being the first Brazilian to acquire a victory in the UCI ProTour, with this victory he rebuilt his morale and later won a stage in the Tour of Missouri. This excellent end of the season convinced his team, Saunier Duval to renew his contract.\n\nPagliarini had a good season start placing third in the last stage of Tour of Qatar and finishing 15th overall. He also won the 6th Stage of the Tour of California, ahead of Juan Jose Haedo and the world champion Paolo Bettini, two days before the Beijing Olympics Men's Road Race he was diagnosed with kidney stones and due to this fact he was the last rider to finish the course.\n\nThis year was a dark year for the Brazilian sprinter after the team whose he had signed a contract, TelTech H2O, did not get a license from UCI and thereafter was disbanded. Luciano stayed out of contact for some months and gained some weight. In July he announced the comeback to his home country to race the Tour of Brazil with team Memorial-Santos and also his preparation on track cycling for the London 2012 Olympic Games.\n\nFollowing economical problems in the team \"Scott-Marcondes Cesar-São José dos Campos\", including a lack of payment to Pagliarini, he withdrew from cycling to become a trainer for the Brazilian track team.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208814", "title": "Tetrazole", "text": "Tetrazole\n\nTetrazoles are a class of synthetic organic heterocyclic compound, consisting of a 5-member ring of four nitrogen atoms and one carbon atom. The simplest is tetrazole itself, CHN.\n\nTetrazole was first prepared by the reaction of anhydrous hydrazoic acid and hydrogen cyanide under pressure. Treatment of organic nitriles with sodium azide in the presence of iodine or silica-supported sodium bisulfate as a heterogeneous catalyst enables an advantageous synthesis of 5-substituted 1\"H\"-tetrazoles. 2-Aryl-\"2H\"-tetrazoles are synthesized by a [3+2] cycloaddition reaction between an aryl diazonium and trimethylsilyldiazomethane.\n\nThere are several pharmaceutical agents which are tetrazoles. Tetrazoles can act as bioisosteres for carboxylate groups because they have similar pKa and are deprotonated at physiological pH. Angiotensin II receptor blockers — such as losartan and candesartan, often are tetrazoles.\nA well-known tetrazole is dimethyl thiazolyl diphenyl tetrazolium bromide (MTT). This tetrazole is used in the MTT assay to quantify the respiratory activity of live cells culture, although it generally kills the cells in the process. Some tetrazoles can also be used in DNA assays. Studies suggest VT-1161 and VT-1129 are a potential potent antifungal drugs as they disturbs fungal enzymatic function but not human enzymes. \n\nSome tetrazole derivatives with high energy have been investigated as high performance explosives as a replacement for TNT and also for use in high performance solid rocket propellant formulations. These include the azidotetrazolate salts of nitrogen bases.\n\nOther tetrazoles are used for their explosive or combustive properties, such as tetrazole itself and 5-aminotetrazole, which are sometimes used as a component of gas generators in automobile airbags. Tetrazole based energetic materials produce high-temperature, non-toxic reaction products such as water and nitrogen gas, and have a high burn rate and relative stability, all of which are desirable properties. The delocalization energy in tetrazole is 209 kJ/mol.\n\n1\"H\"-Tetrazole and 5-(benzylthio)-1\"H\"-tetrazole (BTT) are widely used as acidic activators of the coupling reaction in oligonucleotide synthesis.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208820", "title": "Gretchen Goes to Nebraska", "text": "Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\n\nGretchen Goes to Nebraska is the second studio album by American heavy metal/hard rock trio King's X. It is a concept album based on a short story written by drummer Jerry Gaskill. Having received strong critical praise and fan support, \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" is considered among the best work of King's X, and a seminal record within the progressive metal genre.\n\nCharacteristic of the band's early material, \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" features various lyrical Christian themes in tracks such as \"Over My Head\" but also criticism of televangelism in \"Mission.\" It further questions religion with reference to the burning of Giordano Bruno in \"Pleiades.\" Musically, the album covers various styles; it emphasizes tight melodies and grooves while incorporating elements of gospel and psychedelia.\n\nWhen asked about the truth behind the album's title, drummer Jerry Gaskill responded in a 1990 interview:\n\nKing's X toured considerably in promotion of their second album. The band's second London, England performance at the Astoria was filmed via camcorder. In 2008, nearly twenty years after its recording, the sold-out concert would be released on a DVD: \"Gretchen Goes to London\". According to frontman Doug Pinnick, after the concert, a distressed Jerry Gaskill locked himself in a room, thinking he may have ruined the band's career. Despite this, Pinnick described the show as \"real encouraging.\"\n\nIn keeping with current concert trends, in late 2009, the band expressed interest in performing \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" in its entirety on tour. Pinnick elaborated, \"We like the idea of doing the whole of that record with a great light show, as part of something we’d call \"An Evening With King’s X\". It wouldn’t be a full-blown tour, playing every hell-hole for three months. But we’d select specific, quality venues, make it special for the fans.\"\n\nThe song \"Over My Head,\" a soulful, metal groove, and the power ballad \"Summerland\" both had promotional music videos. The album's cover artwork is seen at the end of the latter video.\n\n\"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" received virtually universal critical praise for its uniquely progressive musical approach and varied styles. Allmusic's Eduardo Rivadavia named it an AMG Album Pick, noting that it tops its \"brilliant\" predecessor by \"taking their unique sound to unprecedented heights of invention and inspiration.\" Major publications such as \"Rolling Stone\" and \"Q\" also offered strong praise. \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" also achieved high slots on various Albums of the Year lists, including No. 4 in \"Kerrang!\". Original Faith No More guitarist Jim Martin praised \"Gretchen Goes to Nebraska\" while speaking to MTV, saying \"That was one of the only records of the so-called new bands that I really liked for quite a while. Heavy Metal stalwart Devin Townsend called the album \"One of The Five Albums That Made Me\". \n\nKing's X\n\nAdditional musician\n\n"}
{"id": "2208823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208823", "title": "Scraggane", "text": "Scraggane\n\nScraggane () is a fishing port located on the Maharees peninsula near Castlegregory in County Kerry, Ireland. \n\nThe main local catch consists of lobster, flat-back crab, spider crab, Atlantic crayfish, Atlantic salmon and mackerel. Scraggane is home to a fleet of about twenty fishing trawlers.\n\nScraggane Bay is used as a flatwater windsurfing venue owing to its consistent wind and its protection from the Atlantic waves. \"Scraggies\", as the locality is often called, is sailable in almost any conditions, regardless of wind direction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208827", "title": "Wu Peifu", "text": "Wu Peifu\n\nWu Peifu or Wu P'ei-fu (; ; April 22, 1874 – December 4, 1939), was a major figure in the struggles between the warlords who dominated Republican China from 1916-27.\n\nBorn in Shandong Province in eastern China, Wu initially received a traditional Chinese education. He later joined the Baoding Military Academy () in Beijing and embarked on a career as a professional soldier. His talents as an officer were recognized by his superiors, and he rose quickly in the ranks.\n\nWu joined the \"New Army\" () (renamed the Beiyang Army in 1902) created by modernizing Qing dynasty Gen. Yuan Shikai. Following the fall of the Qing in 1911, and after Yuan's rise to President of the Republic of China and his subsequent disastrous attempt to proclaim himself emperor, political power in China quickly devolved into the hands of various regional military authorities, inaugurating the era of warlordism. In 1915 Wu became commander of the 6th Brigade.\n\nAfter Yuan's death in 1916, his Beiyang Army split into several mutually hostile factions that battled for supremacy over the following years. The major factions included Duan Qirui's Anhui clique, Zhang Zuolin's Fengtian clique, and Feng Guozhang's Zhili clique, of which Wu Peifu was a member. Duan Qirui's faction dominated politics in Beijing from 1916-20 but was forced to maintain an uneasy relationship with Feng Guozhang's faction to maintain stability. The two clashed over methods of dealing with the restive south, with Duan pushing for military conquest and Feng preferring negotiation.\n\nFeng died in 1919 and the leadership of the Zhili Clique was secured by Cao Kun with the support of Wu Peifu and Sun Chuanfang. Cao and Wu began to agitate against Duan and the Anhui clique and issued circular telegrams denouncing his collaboration with Japan. When they successfully pressured the president to dismiss Duan's key subordinate Gen. Xu Shuzheng, Duan began to prepare for war against the Zhili Clique. At this juncture, Cao Kun and Wu Peifu began to organize a wide-reaching alliance including all opponents of the Anhui clique. In November 1919 Wu Peifu met with representatives of Tang Jiyao and Lu Rongting (warlords of Yunnan and Guangxi, respectively) at Hengyang and signed a treaty titled “Rough Draft of the National Salvation Allied Army” (), forming the base of the anti-Anhui clique alliance that also included Zhang Zuolin's powerful Fengtian clique.\n\nWhen hostilities finally broke out in July 1920, Wu Peifu took a prominent role as commander-in-chief of the anti-Anhui army. At first things did not go well for Zhili forces, as they were pushed back by Anhui troops across the front. However, Wu decided to execute a daring maneuver on the western end of the front by first outflanking enemy positions and then directly assaulting the enemy's headquarters position. The gambit paid off and Wu was rewarded with an astounding victory and the capture of many of the officers in the enemy command. The Anhui army crumbled within a week and Duan Qirui fled to the Japanese settlement at Tianjin. Wu Peifu was credited as the strategist behind the unexpectedly swift victory.\n\nIn the aftermath of the conflict, the Zhili and Fengtian cliques agreed to a power-sharing coalition government. However, Zhang Zuolin, leader of the Fengtian clique, became increasingly uneasy with Wu Peifu's vehement anti-Japanese stance that threatened to upset the delicate arrangement Zhang had reached with the Japanese in his power base of Manchuria. Wu and Zhang also clashed over who would occupy the position of premier, replacing each other's choices with their own. Soon the coalition between Zhili and Fengtian broke down and hostilities were inevitable.\n\nIn this war Wu Peifu was again placed in the position of commander-in-chief of Zhili forces. Fighting would take place on a broad front south of Beijing and Tianjin and lasted from April to June 1922. Initially, the Zhili army again suffered several setbacks against the well-equipped Fengtian army. Yet once again, Wu Peifu's leadership and planning turned the tide in favor of the Zhili clique. He executed several outflanking maneuvers that forced the western front of the Fengtian army back towards Beijing, then he lured it into a trap by feigning retreat. The result was the annihilation of the western wing of the Fengtian army, making its more successful eastern operations untenable. Zhang Zuolin was forced to order a general retreat towards Shanhaiguan, thereby ceding control of the capital to Wu and the Zhili clique.\n\nVictorious, Cao Kun and Wu Peifu's Zhili clique nevertheless took control of a government whose control over the provinces had greatly deteriorated. Manchuria was now de facto independent under Zhang Zuolin and the still formidable Fengtian clique, while the south was divided among myriad warlord armies, including remnants of the Anhui clique and Sun Yat-sen's Kuomintang.\n\nThe new government in Beijing was supported by Great Britain and the United States. Li Yuanhong, the last president with any legitimacy, was recalled to sit as president again on June 12, 1922; however, any cabinet member had to be cleared by Wu Peifu. By this time Wu's prestige and fame had far surpassed that of his former mentor Cao Kun, nominally head of the Zhili clique. This strained their relationship, although it did not result in a fracture of the Zhili clique. Wu tried to restrain Cao when the latter began political machinations for the presidency but ultimately could not prevent Cao from toppling the cabinet and impeaching Li. Cao then spent several months campaigning for the presidency and even openly declared he would pay $5000 to any parliamentarian who would cast a vote for him. This caused national condemnation against the Zhili clique but did not prevent Cao from being elected in October 1923.\n\nIn 1923 Wu ruthlessly broke a strike at the important Hankou–Beijing railway by sending in troops to violently suppress the workers and their leaders. The soldiers killed 35 workers and injured many more. Wu's reputation with the Chinese people suffered significantly because of this event, though he gained the favor of British and American business interests operating in China.\n\nAlthough it appeared that Zhili's power was secure for the time being, a crisis in the south soon precipitated another showdown with the Fengtian clique. The crisis was over the city of Shanghai, the commercial powerhouse of the nation. It was part of the province of Jiangsu, under Zhili control, but actually administered by Zhejiang, ruled by the remnants of the Anhui clique. When the Zhili clique demanded the return of Shanghai to their administration they were refused and fighting soon broke out. Zhang Zuolin in Manchuria and Sun Yat-sen, then in Guangdong, quickly declared their support for the Anhui clique and geared up for war. Wu Peifu dispatched his subordinate and protégé Sun Chuanfang to the south to deal with the Anhui clique and any attack that may have come from Sun's Kuomintang forces, while Wu himself prepared to face off again with Zhang's Fengtian army.\n\nNow called the \"Jade Marshal\" (玉帥) and generally acknowledged to be China's ablest strategist at the time, Wu Peifu was widely expected to win, and by doing so to finally put an end to various quasi-independent regional authorities. His warlord troops were some of the best trained and drilled in China, and as leader of the Zhili Clique, he almost continuously fought northern Chinese warlords like Zhang Zuolin. Known as the philosopher general, he was said at the time to own the world's largest diamond. \n\nHundreds of thousands of men fought in this major battle between Zhang's Fengtian army and Wu's Zhili forces. At a key moment, one of Wu's chief allies, Feng Yuxiang, deserted the front, marched on Beijing and in the so-called Beijing Coup (Beijing \"zhengbian\") overthrew the existing regime and proclaimed a new and mildly progressive government. Wu Peifu's military strategy was thrown into confusion by this catastrophe in his rear, and he was defeated by Zhang's forces near Tianjin. After the victory of the Fengtian clique, Duan Qirui was made the head of state and he proclaimed a provisional government.\n\nWu maintained a power base in Hubei and Henan in central China until he was confronted by the Kuomintang army during the Northern Expedition in 1927. With armies detained by Kuomintang allies in the Northwest, Wu was forced to withdraw to Zhengzhou in Henan.\n\nAs Wu Peifu's armies were being overrun by the Kuomintang forces of Chiang Kai-shek, during a breakfast interview with a westerner Wu Peifu was noticed carrying an old book; the interviewer asked him the title, and Wu replied, \"'The Military Campaigns of the Kingdom of Wu . . . They didn't have any machine guns or airplanes then.\" Wu never held a political office during his years as a warlord.\n\nWu Peifu hung a portrait of George Washington in his office. He was a nationalist, and refused to enter foreign concessions--not even to hide from his enemies--because he viewed them as an affront to China, and instead chose a much more perilous method of escape.\n\nAfter the second Sino-Japanese War broke out, Wu refused to cooperate with the Japanese. In 1939, when the Japanese invited him to be the leader of the puppet government in North China, Wu made a speech saying that he was willing to become the leader of North China again on behalf of the New Order in Asia, if every Japanese soldier on China's soil gave up his post and went back to Japan. He then went back into retirement. In December 1939, Wu had a tooth ache and went to see dentists to have it removed. However, he died of \nsepsis, a complication due to the dental extraction. Some claimed Wu was poisoned by Japanese. He was a national hero before he died, a status he had never before achieved.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2208830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208830", "title": "AmSouth Bancorporation", "text": "AmSouth Bancorporation\n\nAmSouth Bancorporation was a banking company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama, and operated for its final year in existence as a bank holding company (subsidiary) of Regions Financial Corporation after a merger between the two banks. AmSouth was previously known as First National Bank of Birmingham, which was first organized by Charles Linn in 1872. AmSouth was in the financial services industry and at its peak employed over twelve thousand people.\n\nAmSouth's size more than doubled in 2000 when it absorbed Nashville, Tennessee-based First American National Bank. With the merger came hundreds of branches primarily in Tennessee but also in Kentucky, Virginia, and Mississippi. This is cited as a rare example of one bank absorbing another bank larger than itself. As part of the deal, AmSouth also acquired Deposit Guaranty Bank (which was operating as a subsidiary of First American). AmSouth was known for its low risk accounts through its specialty in Wealth Management, especially in its largest market of Birmingham, Alabama, where it started its specialty. Following AmSouth's merger with First American in 1999, the company expanded its Wealth Management reach into many of First American's markets such as Nashville, Tennessee.\n\nOn May 25, 2006, AmSouth announced it would merge with Regions Financial Corporation, another Birmingham-based bank, in a $10 billion deal.\n\nA list of branches that will be divested for the merger to be approved was issued by the Department of Justice on October 19, 2006. The 39 branches divested in Alabama were sold to RBC Centura Bank and converted in Spring 2007.\n\nOn November 4, 2006 Regions completed its acquisition of AmSouth. AmSouth branches in Alabama, Florida, or Columbus, GA, either closed or converted to Regions on July 13, 2007. Branches in remaining states (except parts of Northwest Georgia) closed or converted on October 26, 2007. The branches in Northwest Georgia were converted on December 6, 2007, officially retiring the AmSouth name.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208837", "title": "History of South Carolina", "text": "History of South Carolina\n\nSouth Carolina was one of the original thirteen states of the United States. European exploration of the area began in April 1540, with the Hernando de Soto expedition, who unwittingly introduced new Eurasian diseases that decimated the local Native American population, because they lacked any immunity. In 1663 the English Crown granted land to eight proprietors of what became the colony. The first settlers came to the Province of Carolina at the port of Charleston in 1670; they were mostly wealthy planters and their slaves coming from the English Caribbean colony of Barbados. They started to develop their commodity crops of sugar and cotton. Pushing back the Native Americans in the Yamasee War (1715–17), colonists next overthrew the proprietors' rule, seeing more direct representation. In 1719, the colony was officially made a crown colony; North Carolina was split off and made into a separate colony in 1729.\n\nIn the Stamp Act Crisis of 1765, South Carolina banded together with the other colonies to oppose British taxation and played a major role in resisting Britain. It became independent in March 1776 and joined the United States of America. The Revolution was bloody and hard-fought in 1780–81, as the British invaded, captured the American army and were finally driven out.\n\nIn the early decades, the colony cultivated cotton on plantations of the sea islands and Low Country, along with rice, indigo and some tobacco as commodity crops, all worked by African slaves, most from West Africa. In the 19th century, invention of the cotton gin enabled profitable processing of short-staple cotton, which grew better in the Piedmont than did long-staple cotton. The hilly upland areas, where landowners were generally subsistence farmers with few slaves, were much poorer; a regional conflict between the coastal and inland areas developed in the political system, long dominated by the Low Country planters. With outspoken leaders such as John C. Calhoun, the state vied with Virginia as the dominant political and social force in the South. It fought federal tariffs in the 1830s and demanded that its rights to practice slavery be recognized in newly established territories. With the 1860 election of Republicans under Abraham Lincoln, who vowed to prevent slavery's expansion, the voters demanded secession. In December 1860, the state seceded from the Union; in February 1861, it joined the new Confederate States of America.\n\nIn April 1861, the American Civil War began when Confederate forces attacked the American fort at Fort Sumter in Charleston harbor. From 1865 to 1877, South Carolina underwent Reconstruction. Congress shut down the civilian government in 1867, put the army in charge, gave Freedmen (freed slaves) the vote and prevented ex-Confederates from holding office. A Republican legislature supported by Freedmen, northern carpetbaggers and white Southern scalawags created and funded a public school system, and created social welfare institutions. The constitution they passed was kept nearly unaltered for 27 years, and most legislation passed during the Reconstruction years lasted longer than that. By 1877, the white conservatives, calling themselves \"Redeemers\", had regained political power. In the 1880s, Jim Crow laws were passed that were especially severe in the state, to create public segregation and control movement of African-American laborers. After 1890, almost all blacks lost their vote, not to regain it until 1965.\n\nThe Civil War ruined the economy, and continued dependence on agriculture made South Carolina one of the two or three poorest states for the next century. Educational levels were low as public schools were underfunded, especially for African Americans. Most people lived on small farms and grew cotton. The more affluent landowners subdivided their land into farms operated by tenant farmers or sharecroppers, along with land operated by the owner using hired labor. Gradually more industry moved into the Piedmont area, with textile factories that processed the state's raw cotton into yarn and cloth for sale on the international market.\n\nWave after wave of revivals made most people quite religious; most people, white and black alike, were Baptists.\n\nPolitically the state became part of the Democratic Solid South after whites regained control of the state legislature and governor's office in 1876; they disfranchised African Americans by a new state constitution in 1895, and no black officials were elected between 1900 and 1970. In the first half of the 20th century, many blacks left the state to go to northern cities during the Great Migration. Whites rigidly enforced segregation in the Jim Crow era, limiting African Americans' chances for education, free public movement, and closing them out of the political system. The federal Civil Rights laws of the 1960s ended segregation and protected the voting rights of African Americans. The blacks had been affiliated with the Republican Party, but after 1964 became intensely loyal Democrats, while most white conservatives moved in the opposite direction.\n\nThe cotton regime ended by the 1950s. As factories were built across the state, the great majority of farmers left agriculture. Service industries, such as tourism, education and medical care, grew rapidly, as the textile factories faded after 1970 with movement of jobs offshore. By 2000, the white majority of South Carolina voted solidly Republican in presidential elections, but state and local government elections were contested by the two parties. The population continued to grow, reaching 4 million in 2000, as coast areas became prime locations for tourists and retirees. The poverty rate of 13.5% is slightly worse than the national average of 11.7%.\n\nHumans arrived in the area of South Carolina around 13,000 BC. These people were hunters with crude tools made from stones and bones. Around 10,000 BC, they used spears and hunted big game. Over the Archaic period of 8000 to 2000 BC, the people gathered nuts, berries, fish and shellfish as part of their diets. Trade between the coastal plain and the piedmont developed. There is evidence of plant domestication and pottery in the late Archaic. The Woodland period brought more serious agriculture, more sophisticated pottery, and the bow and arrow.\n\nBy the time of the first European exploration, twenty-nine tribes or nations of Native Americans, divided by major language families, lived within the boundaries of what became South Carolina. Algonquian-speaking tribes lived in the low country, Siouan and Iroquoian-speaking in the Piedmont and uplands, respectively.\n\nBy the end of the 16th century, the Spanish and French had left the area of South Carolina after several reconnaissance missions, expeditions and failed colonization attempts, notably the short-living French outpost of Charlesfort followed by the Spanish town of Santa Elena on modern-day Parris Island between 1562 and 1587. In 1629, Charles I, King of England, granted his attorney general a charter to everything between latitudes 36 and 31. He called this land the Province of Carolana, which would later be changed to \"Carolina\" for pronunciation, after the Latin form of his own name.\n\nPerhaps the most notable moment in history for South Carolina was the creation of the Regulators in the 1760s, one of the first organized militias in the New World. The militia proposed ideas of independence and brought increased recognition to the need for backcountry rights in the Carolinas. This led to the War of the Regulators, a battle between the regulators and the British soldiers, led mainly by British Royal Governor William Tryon, in the area. This battle was the first catalyst in the American Revolution.\n\nIn 1663, Charles II granted the land to the eight Lords Proprietors in return for their financial and political assistance in restoring him to the throne in 1660. Charles II intended that the newly created Province of Carolina would serve as an English bulwark to the contested lands claimed by Spanish Florida and prevent Spanish expansion northward. The eight nobles ruled the Province of Carolina as a proprietary colony. After the Yamasee War of 1715–1717, the Lords Proprietors came under increasing pressure from settlers and were forced to relinquish their charter to the Crown in 1719. The proprietors retained their right to the land until 1719, when the colony was officially split into the provinces of North Carolina and South Carolina as crown colonies.\n\nIn April 1670, settlers arrived at Albemarle Point, at the confluence of the Ashley and Cooper rivers. They founded Charles Town, named in honor of King Charles II. Throughout the Colonial Period, the Carolinas participated in many wars against the Spanish and the Native Americans, including the Yamasee and Cherokee tribes. In its first decades, the colony's plantations were relatively small and its wealth came from Native American trade, mainly in Native American slaves and deerskins.\n\nThe slave trade adversely affected tribes throughout the Southeast and exacerbated enmity and competition among some of them. Historians estimate that Carolinians exported 24,000–51,000 Native American slaves from 1670 to 1717, sending them to markets ranging from Boston in North America to Barbados. Planters financed the purchase of African slaves by their sale of Native Americans, finding that they were somewhat easier to control, as they did not know the territory to make good an escape.\n\nDivided roughly along the Santee River were the two main groups of Native American peoples— Eastern Siouan & the Cusaboan tribes. Relative to the Siouans were mostly the Waccamaw, Sewee, Woccon, Chickanee (a smaller offshoot of the northern Wateree), Winyaw & the Santee (not to be confused with the Dakota Santee of the west.). Most of the region south of the Santee River was controlled by the Muskogean Cusabo tribes. Some Muskogean speaking tribes, like the Coree lived among the Siouans, however. North of the Sewee were the Croatan, an Algonquian nation related to the Chowanoke, Piscataway, Nanticoke & Powhatan further north. Many descendants of the Croatan survive among the Lumbee, who also took in many Siouan peoples of the region. Deeper inland were the lands of the Chalaques, or ancestral Cherokees.\n\nOther tribes who entered the region over time were the Westo, an Iroquoian people believed to have been the same as the Erie indians of Ohio. During the Beaver Wars period, they were pushed out of their homeland by the Iroquois & conquered their way down from the Ohio River into South Carolina, becoming a nuisance to the local populations & damaging the Chalaques. They were destroyed in 1681, and, afterward, the Chalaques split into the Yuchi of North Carolina & the Cherokee to the south, with other fragment groups wandering off into different areas. Also, after this conflict, Muskogeans wandered north and became the Yamasee. When the Cherokee & Yuchi later reformed into the Creek Confederacy after the Yamasee War, they destroyed the Yamasee, who became backwater nomads. They spread out between the states of South Carolina & Florida. Today, several Yamasee tribes have since reformed.\n\nThe Siouan peoples of the state were relatively small & lived a wide variety of lifestyles. Some had absorbed aspects of Muskogean culture, while others lived like the Virginian Saponi people. Most had a traditional Siouan government of a chief-led council, while others (like the Santee) were thought of as tyrannical monarchies. They were among the first to experience colonial contact by the Spanish colony in the state during the 16th century. After the colony collapsed, the native peoples even borrowed their cows & pigs and took up animal husbandry. They liked the idea so much, they went on to capture and domesticate other animals, such as geese and turkeys. Their downfall was a combination of European diseases & warfare. After the English reached the region, many members of these tribes ended up on both sides of most wars. The Sewee in particular met their end in a bizarre circumstance of virtually all the men of their people deciding to cut out the middleman and launched a canoe flotilla to cross the Atlantic so they could trade with Europe directly. They never returned. In the end, all the Siouan peoples of the Carolinas ended up merging with the Catawba, who relocated to the N- S Carolina border around the Yadkin River. Later, the United States amalgamated the Catawba with the Cherokee & they were sent west on the Trail of Tears after the drafting of the Indian Removal Act in the 1830s.\n\nIn the 1700–70 era, the colony possessed many advantages - entrepreneurial planters and businessmen, a major harbor, the expansion of cost-efficient African slave labor, and an attractive physical environment, with rich soil and a long growing season, albeit with endemic malaria. Planters established rice and indigo as commodity crops, based in developing large plantations, with long-staple cotton grown on the sea islands. As the demand for labor increased, planters imported increasing numbers of African slaves. The slave population grew as they had children. These children were also regarded as slaves as they grew up, as South Carolina used Virginia's model of declaring all children born to slave mothers as slaves, regardless of the race or nationality of the father. So the majority of slaves in the colony came to be native-born. This became one of the wealthiest of the British colonies. Rich colonials became avid consumers of services from outside the colony, such as mercantile services, medical education, and legal training in England. Almost everyone in 18th-century South Carolina felt the pressures, constraints, and opportunities associated with the growing importance of trade.\n\nA pan-Native American alliance rose up against the settlers in the Yamasee War (1715–17), in part due to the tribes' opposition to the Native American slave trade. The Native Americans nearly destroyed the colony. But the colonists and Native American allies defeated the Yemasee and their allies, such as the Iroquoian-speaking Tuscarora people. The latter emigrated from the colony north to western New York state, where by 1722 they declared the migration ended. They were accepted as the sixth nation of the Iroquois Confederacy. Combined with exposure to European infectious diseases, the backcountry's Yemasee population was greatly reduced by the fierce warfare.\n\nAfter the Yamasee War, the planters turned exclusively to importing African slaves for labor. With the establishment of rice and indigo as commodity export crops, South Carolina became a slave society, with slavery central to its economy. By 1708, African slaves composed a majority of the population in the colony; the blacks composed the majority of the population in the state into the 20th century. Planters used slave labor to support cultivation and processing of rice and indigo as commodity crops. Building dams, irrigation ditches and related infrastructure, enslaved Africans created the equivalent of huge earthworks to regulate water for the rice culture. Although the methods for cultivation of rice were patterned on those of West African rice growers, white planters took credit for what they called \"an achievement no less skillful than that which excites our wonder in viewing the works of the ancient Egyptians.\"\n\nWhile some lifetime indentured servants came to South Carolina transported as prisoners from Britain, having been sentenced for their part in the failed Scottish Jacobite Rebellions of 1744–46, by far most of the slaves came from West Africa. In the Low Country, including the Sea Islands, where large populations of Africans lived together, they developed a creolized culture and language known as Gullah/Geechee (the latter a term used in Georgia). They interacted with and adopted some elements of the English language and colonial culture and language. The Gullah adapted to elements of American society during the slavery years. Since the late nineteenth century, they have retained their distinctive life styles, products, and language to perpetuate their unique ethnic identity. Beginning about 1910, tens of thousands of blacks left the state in the Great Migration, traveling for work and other opportunities to the northern and midwestern industrial cities.\n\nThe Low Country was settled first, dominated by wealthy English men who became owners of large amounts of land on which they established plantations. They first transported white indentured servants as laborers, mostly teenage youth from England who came to work off their passage in hopes of learning to farm and buying their own land. Planters also imported African laborers to the colony.\n\nIn the early colonial years, social boundaries were fluid between indentured laborers and slaves, and there was considerable intermarriage. Gradually the terms of enslavement became more rigid, and slavery became a racial caste. South Carolina used Virginia's model of declaring all children born to slave mothers as slaves, regardless of the race or nationality of the father. In the Upper South, there were many mixed-race slaves with white planter fathers. With a decrease in English settlers as the economy improved in England before the beginning of the 18th century, the planters began to rely chiefly on enslaved Africans for labor.\n\nThe market for land functioned efficiently and reflected both rapid economic development and widespread optimism regarding future economic growth. The frequency and turnover rate for land sales were tied to the general business cycle; the overall trend was upward, with almost half of the sales occurring in the decade before the American Revolution. Prices also rose over time, parallel with the rise in the price for rice. Prices dropped dramatically, however, in the years just before the American Revolution, when fears arose about future prospects outside the system of English mercantilist trade.\n\nIn contrast to the Tidewater, the back country was settled later in the 18th century, chiefly by Scots-Irish and North British migrants, who had quickly moved down from Pennsylvania and Virginia. The immigrants from Ulster, the Scottish lowlands, and the north of England (the border counties) composed the largest group from the British Isles before the Revolution. They came mostly in the 18th century, later than other colonial immigrants. Such \"North Britons were a large majority in much of the South Carolina upcountry.\" The character of this environment was \"well matched to the culture of the British borderlands.\"\n\nThey settled in the backcountry throughout the South and relied on subsistence farming. Mostly they did not own slaves. Given the differences in background, class, slave holding, economics, and culture, there was long-standing competition between the Low Country and back country that played out in politics.\n\nIn the early period, planters earned wealth from two major crops: rice and indigo (see below), both of which relied on slave labor for their cultivation. Exports of these crops led South Carolina to become one of the wealthiest colonies prior to the Revolution. Near the beginning of the 18th century, planters began rice culture along the coast, mainly in the Georgetown and Charleston areas. The rice became known as Carolina Gold, both for its color and its ability to produce great fortunes for plantation owners.\n\nIn the 1740s, Eliza Lucas Pinckney began indigo culture and processing in coastal South Carolina. Indigo was in heavy demand in Europe for making dyes for clothing. An \"Indigo Bonanza\" followed, with South Carolina production approaching a million pounds (400 plus Tonnes) in the late 1750s. This growth was stimulated by a British bounty of six pence per pound.\n\nSouth Carolina did not have a monopoly of the British market, but the demand was strong and many planters switched to the new crop when the price of rice fell. Carolina indigo had a mediocre reputation because Carolina planters failed to achieve consistent high quality production standards. Carolina indigo nevertheless succeeded in displacing French and Spanish indigo in the British and in some continental markets, reflecting the demand for cheap dyestuffs from manufacturers of low-cost textiles, the fastest-growing sectors of the European textile industries at the onset of industrialization.\n\nIn addition, the colonial economy depended on sales of pelts (primarily deerskins), and naval stores and timber. Coastal towns began shipbuilding to support their trade, using the prime timbers of the live oak.\n\nSouth Carolina's liberal constitution and early flourishing trade attracted Sephardic Jewish immigrants as early as the 18th century. They were mostly elite businessmen from London and Barbados, where they had been involved in the rum and sugar trades. Many became slaveholders. In 1800, Charleston had the largest Jewish population of any city in the United States. Huguenot Protestant refugees from France were welcomed and many became mechanics and businessmen.\n\nThe comprehensive Negro Act of 1740 was passed in South Carolina, during Governor William Bull's time in office, in response to the Stono Rebellion in 1739. The act made it illegal for enslaved Africans to move abroad, assemble in groups, raise food, earn money, and learn to write (though reading was not proscribed). Additionally, owners were permitted to kill rebellious slaves if necessary. The Act remained in effect until 1865.\n\nPrior to the American Revolution, the British began taxing American colonies to raise revenue. Residents of South Carolina were outraged by the Townsend Acts that taxed tea, paper, wine, glass, and oil. To protest the Stamp Act, South Carolina sent the wealthy rice planter Thomas Lynch, twenty-six-year-old lawyer John Rutledge, and Christopher Gadsden to the Stamp Act Congress, held in 1765 in New York. Other taxes were removed, but tea taxes remained. Soon residents of South Carolina, like those of the Boston Tea Party, began to dump tea into the Charleston Harbor, followed by boycotts and protests.\n\nSouth Carolina set up its state government and constitution on March 26, 1776. Because of the colony's longstanding trade ties with Great Britain, the Low Country cities had numerous Loyalists. Many of the Patriot battles fought in South Carolina during the American Revolution were against loyalist Carolinians and the Cherokee Nation, which was allied with the British. This was to British General Henry Clinton's advantage, as his strategy was to march his troops north from St. Augustine and sandwich George Washington in the North. Clinton alienated Loyalists and enraged Patriots by attacking and nearly annihilating a fleeing army of Patriot soldiers who posed no threat.\n\nWhite colonists were not the only ones with a desire for freedom. Estimates are that about 25,000 slaves escaped, migrated or died during the disruption of the war, 30 percent of the state's slave population. About 13,000 joined the British, who had promised them freedom if they left rebel masters and fought with them. From 1770 to 1790, the proportion of the state's population made up of blacks (almost all of whom were enslaved), dropped from 60.5 percent to 43.8 percent.\n\nOn October 7, 1780, at Kings Mountain, John Sevier and William Campbell, using volunteers from the mountains and from Tennessee, surrounded 1000 Loyalist soldiers camped on a mountain top. It was a decisive Patriot victory. It was the first Patriot victory since the British had taken Charleston. Thomas Jefferson, governor of Virginia at the time, called it, \"The turn of the tide of success.\"\n\nWhile tensions mounted between the Crown and the Carolinas, some key southern Pastors became a target of King George: \"... this church (Bullock Creek) was noted as one of the \"Four Bees\" in King George's bonnet due to its pastor, Rev. Joseph Alexander, preaching open rebellion to the British Crown in June 1780. Bullock Creek Presbyterian Church was a place noted for being a Whig party stronghold. Under a ground swell of such Calvin Protestant leadership, South Carolina moved from a back seat to the front in the war against tyranny. Patriots went on to regain control of Charleston and South Carolina with untrained militiamen by trapping Colonel Banastre \"No Quarter\" Tarleton's troops along a river.\n\nIn 1787, John Rutledge, Charles Pinckney, Charles Cotesworth Pinckney, and Pierce Butler went to Philadelphia where the Constitutional Convention was being held and constructed what served as a detailed outline for the U.S. Constitution. The federal Constitution was ratified by the state in 1787. The new state constitution was ratified in 1790 without the support of the Upcountry.\n\nDuring the Revolution, the Scots Irish in the back country in most states were noted as strong patriots. One exception was the Waxhaw settlement on the lower Catawba River along the North Carolina-South Carolina boundary, where Loyalism was strong. The area had two main settlement periods of Scotch Irish. During the 1750s–1760s, second- and third-generation Scotch Irish Americans moved from Pennsylvania, Virginia, and North Carolina. This particular group had large families, and as a group they produced goods for themselves and for others. They generally were patriots.\n\nIn addition to these, The Earl of Donegal arrived in Charleston on December 22, 1767, from Belfast, bringing approximately fifty families over who received land grants under the Bounty Act. Most of these families settled in the upstate. A portion of these eventually migrated into Georgia and on into Alabama.\n\nJust prior to the Revolution, a second stream of immigrants came directly from northern Ireland via Charleston. Mostly poor, this group settled in an underdeveloped area because they could not afford expensive land. Most of this group remained loyal to the Crown or neutral when the war began. Prior to Charles Cornwallis's march into the backcountry in 1780, two-thirds of the men among the Waxhaw settlement had declined to serve in the army. British victory at the Battle of the Waxhaws resulted in anti-British sentiment in a bitterly divided region. While many individuals chose to take up arms against the British, the British forced the people to choose sides, as they were trying to recruit Loyalists for a militia.\n\nSouth Carolina had one of the strongest Loyalists factions of any state. About 5000 men took up arms against the Patriot government during revolution, and thousands more were supporters. Nearly all had immigrated to the province after 1765, only about one in six was native-born. About 45% of the Loyalists were small farmers, 30% were merchants, artisans or shopkeepers; 15% were large farmers or plantation owners; 10% Were royal officials. Geographically they were strongest in the backcountry.\n\nAlthough the state had experienced a bitter bloody internal civil war 1780-82. civilian leaders nevertheless it adopted a policy of reconciliation that proved more moderate than any other state. About 4500 white Loyalists left when the war ended, but the majority remained behind. The state successfully and quickly reincorporated the vast majority. Some were required to pay a 10% fine of the value of the property. The legislature named 232 Loyalists liable for confiscation of their property, but most appealed and were forgiven.\n\nRebecca Brannon, says South Carolinians, \"offered the most generous reconciliation to Loyalists ... despite suffering the worst extremes of violent civil war\" According to a reviewer, she:\n\nconvincingly argues that South Carolinians, driven by social, political, and economic imperatives, engaged in a process of integration that was significantly more generous than that of other states. Indeed, Brannon's account strongly suggests that it was precisely the brutality and destructiveness of the conflict in the Palmetto State that led South Carolinians to favor reconciliation over retribution.\n\nSouth Carolina led opposition to national law during the Nullification Crisis. It was the first state to declare its secession in 1860 in response to the election of Abraham Lincoln. Dominated by major planters, it was the only state in which slaveholders composed a majority of the legislature.\n\nAfter the Revolutionary War, numerous slaves were freed. Most of the northern states abolished slavery, sometimes combined with gradual emancipation. In the Upper South, inspired by revolutionary ideals and activist preachers, state legislatures passed laws making it easier for slaveholders to manumit (free) their slaves both during their lifetimes or by wills. Quakers, Methodists, and Baptists urged slaveholders to free their slaves. In the period from 1790 to 1810, the proportion and number of free blacks rose dramatically in the Upper South and overall, from less than 1 percent to more than 10 percent.\n\nWhen the importation of slaves became illegal in 1808, South Carolina was the only state that still allowed importation, which had been prohibited in the other states.\n\nSlave owners had more control over the state government of South Carolina than of any other state. Elite planters played the role of English aristocrats more than did the planters of other states. In the late antebellum years, the newer Southern states, such as Alabama and Mississippi, allowed more political equality among whites. Although all white male residents were allowed to vote, property requirements for office holders were higher in South Carolina than in any other state. It was the only state legislature in which slave owners held the majority of seats. The legislature elected the governor, all judges and state electors for federal elections, as well as the US senators into the 20th century, so its members had considerable political power. The state's chief executive was a figurehead who had no authority to veto legislative law.\n\nWith its society disrupted by slave losses during the Revolution, South Carolina did not embrace manumission as readily as states of the Upper South. Most of its small number of free blacks were of mixed race, often the children of major planters or their sons, who made sexual use of young female slaves. Their wealthy fathers sometimes passed on social capital to such mixed-race children, arranging for their manumission even if officially denying them as legal heirs. Fathers sometimes arranged to have their slave children educated, arranged apprenticeships in skilled trades, and other preparation for independent adulthood. Some planters sent their mixed-race slave children to schools and colleges in the North for education.\n\nIn the early 19th century, the state legislature passed laws making manumission more difficult. The manumission law of 1820 required slaveholders to gain legislative approval for each act of manumission and generally required other free adults to testify that the person to be freed could support himself. This meant that freedmen were unable to free their slave children, since the first law required that five citizens attest to the ability of the person proposed to be freed to earn a living. In 1820, the legislature ended personal manumissions, requiring all slaveholders to gain individual permission from the legislature before manumitting anyone.\n\nThe majority of the population in South Carolina was black, with concentrations in the plantation areas of the Low Country: by 1860 the population of the state was 703,620, with 57 percent or slightly more than 402,000 classified as slaves. Free blacks numbered slightly less than 10,000. A concentration of free people of color lived in Charleston, where they formed an elite racial caste of people who had more skills and education than most blacks. Unlike Virginia, where most of the larger plantations and slaves were concentrated in the eastern part of the state, in South Carolina plantations and slaves became common throughout much of the state. After 1794, Eli Whitney's cotton gin allowed cotton plantations for short-staple cotton to be widely developed in the Piedmont area, which became known as the Black Belt of the state.\n\nBy 1830, 85% of inhabitants of rice plantations in the Low Country were slaves. When rice planters left the malarial low country for cities such as Charleston during the social season, up to 98% of the Low Country residents were slaves. This led to a preservation of West African customs while developing the Creole culture known as Gullah. By 1830, two-thirds of South Carolina's counties had populations with 40 percent or more enslaved; even in the two counties with the lowest rates of slavery, 23 percent of the population were slaves.\n\nIn 1822, a black freedman named Denmark Vesey and compatriots around Charlestown organized a plan for thousands of slaves to participate in an armed uprising to gain freedom. Vesey's plan, inspired by the 1791 Haitian Revolution, called for thousands of armed black men to kill their owners, seize the city of Charleston, and escape from the United States by sailing to Haiti. The plot was discovered when two slaves opposed to the plan leaked word of it to white authorities. Charleston authorities charged 131 men with participating in the conspiracy. In total, the state convicted 67 men and executed by hanging 35 of them, including Vesey. White fear of slave insurrections after the Vesey conspiracy led to a 9:15 pm curfew for slaves in Charleston, and the establishment of a municipal guard of 150 white men in Charleston, with half the men stationed in an arsenal called the Citadel. Columbia was protected by an arsenal.\n\nPlantations in older Southern states such as South Carolina wore out the soil to such an extent that 42% of state residents left the state for the lower South, to develop plantations with newer soil. The remaining South Carolina plantations were especially hard hit when worldwide cotton markets turned down in 1826–32 and again in 1837–49. Economic hardships caused many South Carolinians to believe that a \"Forty Bale theory\" explained their problems.\n\nThe white minority in South Carolina felt more threatened than in other parts of the South, and reacted more to the economic Panic of 1819, the Missouri Controversy of 1820, and attempts at emancipation in the form of the Ohio Resolutions of 1824 and the American Colonization Petition of 1827. South Carolina's first attempt at nullification occurred in 1822, when South Carolina adopted a policy of jailing foreign black sailors at South Carolina ports. This policy violated a treaty between the United Kingdom and the United States, but South Carolina defied a complaint from Britain through American Secretary of State John Quincy Adams and a United States Supreme Court justice's federal circuit decision condemning the jailings. Foreign blacks from Santo Domingo had previously communicated with Denmark Vesey's conspirators, and the South Carolina State Senate declared that the need to prevent insurrections was more important than laws, treaties or constitutions.\n\nSouth Carolinian George McDuffie popularized the \"Forty Bale theory\" to explain South Carolina's economic woes. He said that tariffs that became progressively higher in 1816, 1824 and 1828 had the same effect as if a thief stole forty bales out of a hundred from every barn. The tariffs applied to imports of goods such as iron, wool, and finished cotton products. The Forty Bale theory was based on faulty math, as Britain could sell finished cotton goods made from Southern raw cotton around the world, not just to the United States. Still, the theory was a popular explanation for economic problems that were caused in large part by overproduction of cotton in the Deep South, competing with South Carolina's declining crops because of its depleted soil. South Carolinians, rightly or wrongly, blamed the tariff for the fact that cotton prices fell from 18 cents a pound to 9 cents a pound during the 1820s.\n\nWhile the effects of the tariff were exaggerated, manufactured imports from Europe were cheaper than American-made products without the tariff, and the tariff did reduce British imports of cotton to some extent. These were largely short-term problems that existed before United States factories and textile makers could compete with Europe. Also, the tariff replaced a tax system where slave states previously had to pay more in taxes for the increased representation they got in the U.S. House of Representatives under the three-fifths clause.\n\nThe Tariff of 1828, which South Carolina agitators called the Tariff of Abominations, set the tariff rate at 50 percent. Although John C. Calhoun previously supported tariffs, he anonymously wrote the \"South Carolina Exposition and Protest\", which was a states' rights argument for nullifying the tariff. Calhoun's theory was that the threat of secession would lead to a \"concurrent majority\" that would possess every white minority's consent, as opposed to a \"tyrannical majority\" of Northerners controlling the South. Both Calhoun and Robert Barnwell Rhett foresaw that the same arguments could be used to defend slavery when necessary.\nPresident Andrew Jackson successfully forced the nullifiers to back down and allowed a gradual reduction of tariff rates. Calhoun and Senator Henry Clay agreed upon the Compromise Tariff of 1833, which would lower rates over 10 years. Calhoun later supported national protection for slavery in the form of the Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 and federal protection of slavery in the territories conquered from Mexico, in contradiction to his previous support for nullification and states' rights.\n\nOn July 29, 1835, Charleston Postmaster Alfred Huger found abolitionist literature in the mail, and refused to deliver it. Slave owners seized the mail and built a bonfire with it, and other Southern states followed South Carolina's lead in censoring abolitionist literature. South Carolina's James Henry Hammond started the gag rule controversy by demanding a ban on petitions for ending slavery from being introduced before Congress in 1835. The 1856 caning of Republican Charles Sumner by the South Carolinian Preston Brooks after Sumner's \"Crime Against Kansas\" speech heightened Northern fears that the alleged aggressions of the slave power threatened republican government for Northern whites.\n\nJohn Belton O'Neall summarized the Negro Act of 1740, in his written work, The Negro Law of South Carolina, when he stated: \"A slave may, by the consent of his master, acquire and hold personal property. All, thus required, is regarded in law as that of the master.\" Across the South, state supreme courts supported the position of this law. In 1848, O'Neall was the only one to express protest against the Act, arguing for the propriety of receiving testimony from enslaved Africans (many of whom, by 1848, were Christians) under oath: \"Negroes (slave or free) will feel the sanctions of an oath, with as much force as any of the ignorant classes of white people, in a Christian country.\"\n\nSouth Carolina was the first state to secede from the Union after the election of Abraham Lincoln in 1860. South Carolina adopted the on December 24, 1860, following a briefer Ordinance of Secession adopted December 20. All of the violations of the alleged rights of Southern states mentioned in the document are about slavery. President Buchanan protested but made no military response aside from a failed attempt to resupply Fort Sumter via the ship \"Star of the West\", which was fired upon by South Carolina forces and turned back before it reached the fort.\n\nFew white South Carolinians considered abolition of slavery as an option. Having lived as a minority among the majority-black slaves, they feared that, if freed, the slaves would try to \"Africanize\" the whites' cherished society and culture. This was what they believed had happened after slave revolutions in Haiti, in which numerous whites and free people of color were killed during the revolution. South Carolina's white politicians were divided between devoted Unionists who opposed any sort of secession, and those who believed secession was a state's right.\n\nJohn C. Calhoun noted that the dry and barren West could not support a plantation system and would remain without slaves. Calhoun proposed that Congress should not exclude slavery from territories but let each state choose for itself whether it would allow slaves within its borders. After Calhoun's death in 1850, however, South Carolina was left without a leader great enough in national standing and character to prevent action by those more militant South Carolinian factions who wanted to secede immediately. Andrew Pickens Butler argued against Charleston publisher Robert Barnwell Rhett, who advocated immediate secession and, if necessary, independence. Butler won the battle, but Rhett outlived him.\n\nWhen people began to believe that Abraham Lincoln would be elected president, states in the Deep South organized conventions to discuss their options. South Carolina was the first state to organize such a convention, meeting in December following the national election. On December 20, 1860, delegates convened in Charleston and voted unanimously to secede from the Union. President James Buchanan declared the secession illegal, but did not act to stop it. The first six states to secede with the largest slaveholding states in the South, demonstrating that the slavery societies were an integral part of the secession question.\n\nOn February 4, the seven seceded states approved a new constitution for the Confederate States of America. Lincoln argued that the United States were \"one nation, \"indivisible\",\" and denied the Southern states' right to secede. South Carolina entered the Confederacy on February 8, 1861, thus ending fewer than six weeks of being an independent State of South Carolina. Meanwhile Major Robert Anderson, commander of the U.S. troops in Charleston, withdrew his men into the small island fortress of Fort Sumter in Charleston Harbor and raised the U.S. flag. Fort Sumter was vastly outgunned by shore batteries and was too small to be a military threat but it had high symbolic value. In a letter delivered January 31, 1861, South Carolina Governor Pickens demanded of President Buchanan that he surrender Fort Sumter, because \"I regard that possession is not consistent with the dignity or safety of the State of South Carolina.\" Buchanan refused. Lincoln was determined to hold it to assert national power and prestige; he wanted the Confederacy to fire the first shot. If it was to be a dignified independent nation the Confederacy could not tolerate a foreign fort in its second largest harbor.\nAbout 6,000 Confederate men were stationed around the rim of the harbor, ready to take on the 60 men in Fort Sumter. At 4:30 a.m. on April 12, after two days of fruitless negotiations, and with Union ships just outside the harbor, the Confederates opened fire on orders from President Jefferson Davis. Edmund Ruffin fired the first shot. Thirty-four hours later, Anderson's men raised the white flag and were allowed to leave the fort with colors flying and drums beating, saluting the U.S. flag with a 50-gun salute before taking it down. During this salute, one of the guns exploded, killing a young soldier—the only casualty of the bombardment and the first casualty of the war. In a mass frenzy, North and South men rushed to enlist, as Lincoln called up troops to recapture the fort.\n\nThe South was at a disadvantage in number, weaponry, and maritime skills; the region did not have much of a maritime tradition and few sailors. Federal ships sailed south and blocked off one port after another. As early as November, Union troops occupied the Sea Islands in the Beaufort area, and established an important base for the men and ships that would obstruct the ports at Charleston and Savannah. Many plantation owners had already fled to distant interior refuges, sometimes taking their slaves with them.\n\nThose African-Americans who remained on the Sea Islands became the first \"freedmen\" of the war. Under military supervision, the Sea Islands became a laboratory for education, with Northern missionary teachers finding former enslaved adults as well as children eager for learning. The supervisors assigned plots of plantation land to individual freedmen households, who began to do subsistence farming, generally of food crops and cotton or rice.\n\nDespite South Carolina's important role, and the Union's unsuccessful attempt to take Charleston from 1863 onward, fighting was largely limited to naval activities until almost the end of the war. Having completed his March to the Sea at Savannah in 1865, Union General Sherman took his army to Columbia, then north into North Carolina. With most major Confederate resistance eliminated by this point, the Union army was nearly unopposed. Sherman's troops embarked on an orgy of looting and destruction as there was widespread resentment at South Carolina being \"the mother of secession\" and the principal reason why the war started in the first place. Columbia and many other towns were burned.\n\nOn February 21, 1865, with the Confederate forces finally evacuated from Charleston, the black 54th Massachusetts Regiment, led by Thomas Baker, Albert Adams, David Adams, Nelson R. Anderson, William H. Alexander, Beverly Harris, Joseph Anderson, Robert Abram, Elijah Brown, Wiley Abbott, marched through the city. At a ceremony at which the U.S. flag was raised over Fort Sumter, former fort commander Robert Anderson was joined on the platform by two African Americans: Union hero Robert Smalls, who had piloted a Confederate ship to Union lines, and the son of Denmark Vesey.\n\nContinuing to rely on agriculture in a declining market, landowners in the state struggled with the change to free labor, as well as the aftermath of the war's destruction. There was an agricultural depression and deep financial recession in 1873, and changes in the labor market disrupted agriculture. South Carolina lost proportionally more of its young men of fighting age than did any other Southern state. Recorded deaths were 18,666; however, fatalities might have reached 21,146. This was 31–35% of the total of white men of ages 18–45 recorded in the 1860 census for South Carolina. As with other military forces, most of the men died of disease rather than being wounded in battle.\n\nAfrican Americans had long composed the majority of the state's population. However, in 1860, only 2 percent of the state's black population were free; most were mulattos or free people of color, with ties of kinship to white families. They were well established as more educated and skilled artisans in Charleston and some other cities despite social restrictions, and sometimes as landowners and slaveholders. As a result, free people of color before the war became important leaders in the South Carolina government during Reconstruction; they made up 26 percent of blacks elected to office in the state between 1868 and 1876 and played important roles in the Republican Party, prepared by their education, skills and experiences before the war.\n\nDespite the anti-Northern fury of prewar and wartime politics, most South Carolinians, including the state's leading opinion-maker, Wade Hampton III, believed that white citizens would do well to accept President Andrew Johnson's terms for full reentry to the Union. However, the state legislature, in 1865, passed \"Black Codes\" to control the work and movement of freedmen. This angered Northerners, who accused the state of imposing semi-slavery on the freedmen. The South Carolina Black Codes have been described:\n\nPersons of color contracting for service were to be known as \"servants\", and those with whom they contracted, as \"masters.\" On farms the hours of labor would be from sunrise to sunset daily, except on Sunday. The negroes were to get out of bed at dawn. Time lost would be deducted from their wages, as would be the cost of food, nursing, etc., during absence from sickness. Absentees on Sunday must return to the plantation by sunset. House servants were to be at call at all hours of the day and night on all days of the week. They must be \"especially civil and polite to their masters, their masters' families and guests\", and they in return would receive \"gentle and kind treatment.\" Corporal and other punishment was to be administered only upon order of the district judge or other civil magistrate. A vagrant law of some severity was enacted to keep the negroes from roaming the roads and living the lives of beggars and thieves.\n\nThe Black Codes outraged northern opinion and apparently were never put into effect in any state.\n\nAfter winning the 1866 elections, the Radical Republicans took control of the Reconstruction process. The Army registered all male voters, and elections returned a Republican government composed of a coalition of freedmen, \"carpetbaggers\", and \"scalawags\". By a constitutional convention, new voters created the Constitution of 1868; this brought democratic reforms to the state, including its first public school system. Native white Republicans supported it, but white Democrats viewed the Republican government as representative of black interests only and were largely unsupportive.\n\nAdding to the interracial animosity was the sense of many whites that their former slaves had betrayed them. Before the war, slaveholders had convinced themselves that they were treating their slaves well and had earned their slaves' loyalty. When the Union Army rolled in and slaves deserted by the thousands, slaveholders were stunned. The black population scrambled to preserve its new rights while the white population attempted to claw its way back up the social ladder by denying blacks those same rights and reviving white supremacy.\n\nKu Klux Klan raids began shortly after the end of the war, as a first stage of insurgency. Secret chapters had members who terrorized and murdered blacks and their sympathizers in an attempt to reestablish white supremacy. These raids were particularly prevalent in the upstate, and they reached a climax in 1870–71. Congress passed a series of Enforcement Acts aimed at curbing Klan activity, and the Grant administration eventually declared martial law in the upstate counties of Spartanburg, York, Marion, Chester, Laurens, Newberry, Fairfield, Lancaster, and Chesterfield in October 1870.\n\nThe declaration was followed by mass arrests and a series of Congressional hearings to investigate violence in the region. Though the federal program resulted in over 700 indictments, there were few successful prosecutions, and many of those individuals later received pardons. The ultimate weakness of the response helped to undermine federal authority in the state, though formal Klan activity declined precipitously following federal intervention. The violence in the state did not subside, however. New insurgent groups formed as paramilitary units and rifle clubs who operated openly in the 1870s to disrupt Republican organizing and suppress black voting; such groups included the Red Shirts, as of 1874, and their violence killed more than 100 blacks during the political season of 1876.\n\nA major theme of conservative opposition to Republican state government was the escalating state debt, and the rising taxes paid by a white population that was much poorer than before the war. Much of the state money had been squandered or wasted. Simkins and Woody say that, \"The state debt increased rapidly, interest was seldom paid, and credit of the state was almost wiped out; yet with one or two exceptions the offenders were not brought to justice.\"\n\nReconstruction government established public education for the first time, and new charitable institutions, together with improved prisons. There was corruption, but it was mostly white Southerners who benefited, particularly by investments to develop railroads and other infrastructure. Taxes had been exceedingly low before the war because the planter class refused to support programs such as education welfare. The exigencies of the postwar period caused the state debt to climb rapidly. When Republicans came to power in 1868, the debt stood at $5.4 million. By the time Republicans lost control in 1877, state debt had risen to $18.5 million.\n\nFrom 1868 on, elections were accompanied by increasing violence from white paramilitary groups such as the Red Shirts. Because of the violence in 1870, Republican Governor Chamberlain requested assistance from Washington to try to keep control. President Ulysses S. Grant sent federal troops to try to preserve order and ensure a fair election.\n\nUsing as a model the \"Mississippi Plan\", which had redeemed that state in 1874, South Carolina whites used intimidation, violence, persuasion, and control of the blacks. In 1876, tensions were high, especially in Piedmont towns where the numbers of blacks were fewer than whites. In these counties, blacks sometimes made up a narrow majority. There were numerous demonstrations by the Red Shirts—white Democrats determined to win the upcoming elections by any means possible. The Red Shirts turned the tide in South Carolina, convincing whites that this could indeed be the year they regain control and terrorizing blacks to stay away from voting, due to incidents such as the Hamburg Massacre in July, the Ellenton riots in October, and other similar events in Aiken County and Edgefield District. Armed with heavy pistols and rifles, they rode on horseback to every Republican meeting, and demanded a chance to speak. The Red Shirts milled among the crowds. Each selected a black man to watch, privately threatening to shoot him if he raised a disturbance. The Redeemers organized hundreds of rifle clubs. Obeying proclamations to disband, they sometimes reorganized as missionary societies or dancing clubs—with rifles.\n\nThey set up an ironclad economic boycott against black activists and \"scalawags\" who refused to vote the Democratic ticket. People lost jobs over their political views. They beat down the opposition—but always just within the law. In 1876, Wade Hampton made more than forty speeches across the state. Some Black Republicans joined his cause; donning the Red Shirts, they paraded with the whites. Most scalawags \"crossed Jordan\", as switching to the Democrats was called.\n\nOn election day, there was intimidation and fraud on all sides, employed by both parties. Edgefield and Laurens counties had more votes for Democratic candidate Wade Hampton III than the total number of registered voters in either county. The returns were disputed all the way to Washington, where they played a central role in the Compromise of 1877. Both parties claimed victory. For a while, two separate state assemblies did business side by side on the floor of the state house (their Speakers shared the Speaker's desk, but each had his own gavel), until the Democrats moved to their own building. There the Democrats continued to pass resolutions and conducted the state's business, just as the Republicans were doing. The Republican State Assembly tossed out results of the tainted election and reelected Chamberlain as governor. A week later, General Wade Hampton III took the oath of office for the Democrats.\n\nFinally, in return for the South's support of his own convoluted presidential \"victory\" over Samuel Tilden, President Rutherford B. Hayes withdrew federal troops from Columbia and the rest of the South in 1877. The Republican government dissolved and Chamberlain headed north, as Wade Hampton and his Redeemers took control.\n\nWhites and blacks in South Carolina developed different memories of Reconstruction and used them to justify their politics. James Shepherd Pike, a prominent Republican journalist, visited the state in 1873 and wrote accounts that were widely reprinted and published as a book, \"The Prostrate State\" (1874). Historian Eric Foner writes:\n\nThe book depicted a state engulfed by political corruption, drained by governmental extravagance, and under the control of \"a mass of black barbarism.\" The South's problems, he insisted, arose from \"Negro government.\" The solution was to restore leading whites to political power.\n\nSimilar views were developed in scholarly monographs by academic historians of the Dunning School based at Columbia University in the early 20th century; they served as historians at major colleges in the South, influencing interpretation of Reconstruction into the 1960s. They argued that corrupt Yankee carpetbaggers controlled for financial profit the mass of ignorant black voters and nearly plunged South Carolina into economic ruin and social chaos. The heroes in this version were the Red Shirts: white paramilitary insurgents who, beginning in 1874, rescued the state from misrule and preserved democracy, expelled blacks from the public square by intimidation during elections, restored law and order, and created a long era of comity between the races.\n\nThe black version, beginning with W.E.B. Du Bois' \"Black Reconstruction\" (1935), examines the period more objectively and notes its achievements in establishing public school education, and numerous social and welfare institutions to benefit all the citizens. Other historians also evaluated Reconstruction against similar periods. Their work provided intellectual support for the Civil Rights Movement.\n\nIn the 1980s, social battles over the display of the Confederate flag following the achievements of the Civil Rights Movement were related to these differing interpretations and the blacks' nearly century of struggle to regain the exercise of constitutional rights lost to Conservative Democrats after Reconstruction.\n\nThe Democrats were led by General Wade Hampton III and other former Confederate veterans who espoused a return to the policies of the antebellum period. Known as the Conservatives, or the Bourbons, they favored a minimalist approach by the government and a conciliatory policy towards blacks while maintaining white supremacy. Also of interest to the Conservatives was the restoration of the University of South Carolina to its prominent prewar status as the leading institution of higher education in the state and the region. They closed the college before passing a law to restrict admission to whites only. The legislature designated Claflin College for higher education for blacks. (The Reconstruction legislature had opened the college to blacks and established supplemental programs to prepare them for study.)\n\nOnce in power, the Democrats quickly consolidated their position and sought to unravel the legacy of the Radical Republicans. They pressured Republicans to resign from their positions, which included violence and intimidation by members of the Red Shirts, a paramilitary group described the historian George Rabe as the \"military arm of the Democratic Party,\" who also worked to suppress black voting. Within a year both the legislative and judiciary were firmly in the control of the Democrats. The Democrats launched investigations into the corruption and frauds committed by Republicans during Reconstruction. They dropped the charges when the Federal government dropped its charges against whites accused of violence in the 1876 election campaign.\n\nWith their position secure, the Democrats next tackled the state debt. Many Democrats from the upcountry, led by General Martin Gary, who had developed the Edgefield Plan for targeted violence to take back the state, pushed for the entire state debt to be canceled, but Gary was opposed by Charleston holders of the bonds. A compromise moderated by Wade Hampton was achieved and by October 1882, the state debt was reduced to $6.5 million.\n\nOther legislative initiatives by the Conservatives benefited its primary supporters, the planters and business class. Taxes across the board were reduced, and funding was cut for public social and educational programs that assisted poor whites and blacks. Oral contracts were made to be legally binding, breach of contract was enforced as a criminal offense, and those in debt to planters could be forced to work off their debt. In addition, the University of South Carolina along with The Citadel were reopened to elite classes and generously supported by the state government.\n\nBy the late 1880s, the agrarian movement swept through the state and encouraged subsistence farmers to assert their political rights. They pressured the legislature to establish an agriculture college. Reluctantly the legislature complied by adding an agriculture college to the University of South Carolina in 1887. Ben Tillman inspired the farmers to demand a separate agriculture college isolated from the politics of Columbia. The Conservatives finally gave them one in 1889.\n\nIn 1890, Ben Tillman set his sights on the gubernatorial contest. The farmers rallied behind his candidacy and Tillman easily defeated the conservative nominee, A.C. Haskell. The conservatives failed to grasp the strength of the farmers' movement in the state. The planter elite no longer engendered automatic respect for having fought in the Civil War. Not only that, but Tillman's \"humorous and coarse speech appealed to a majority no more delicate than he in matters of taste.\"\n\nThe Tillman movement succeeded in enacting a number of Tillman's proposals and pet projects. Among those was the crafting of a new state constitution and a state dispensary system for alcohol. Tillman held a \"pathological fear of Negro rule.\" White elites created a new constitution with provisions to suppress voting by blacks and poor whites following the 1890 model of Mississippi, which had survived an appeal to the US Supreme Court.\n\nThey followed what was known as the Mississippi Plan, which had survived a US Supreme Court challenge. Disfranchisement was chiefly accomplished through provisions related to making voter registration more difficult, such as poll taxes and literacy tests, which in practice adversely affected African Americans and poor whites. After promulgation of the new Constitution of 1895, voting was for more than sixty years essentially restricted to whites, establishing a one-party Democratic state. White Democrats benefited by controlling a House of Representatives apportionment based on the total state population, although the number of voters had been drastically reduced. Blacks were excluded from the political system in every way, including from serving in local offices and on juries.\n\nDuring Reconstruction, black legislators had been a majority in the lower house of the legislature. The new requirements, applied under white authority, led to only about 15,000 of the 140,000 eligible blacks qualifying to register. In practice, many more blacks were prohibited from voting by the subjective voter registration process controlled by white registrars. In addition, the Democratic Party primary was restricted to whites only. By October 1896, there were 50,000 whites registered, but only 5,500 blacks, in a state in which blacks were the majority.\n\nThe 1900 census demonstrated the extent of disfranchisement: a total of 782,509 African Americans made up more than 58 percent of the state's population, essentially without any representation. The political loss affected educated and illiterate men alike. It meant that without their interests represented, blacks were unfairly treated within the state. They were unable to serve on juries; segregated schools and services were underfunded; law enforcement was dominated by whites. African Americans did not recover the ability to exercise suffrage and political rights until the Civil Rights Movement won passage of Federal legislation in 1964 and 1965.\n\nThe state Dispensary, described as \"Ben Tillman's Baby\", was never popular in the state, and violence broke out in Darlington over its enforcement. In 1907, the Dispensary Act was repealed. In 1915, the legal sale of alcohol was prohibited by referendum.\n\nTillman's influence on the politics of South Carolina began to wane after he was elected by the legislature to the U.S. Senate in 1895. The Conservatives recaptured the legislature in 1902. The elite planter, Duncan Clinch Heyward, won the gubernatorial election. He made no substantial changes and Heyward continued to enforce the Dispensary Act at great difficulty. The state continued its rapid pace of industrialization, which gave rise to a new class of white voters, the cotton mill workers.\n\nWhite sharecroppers and mill workers coalesced behind the candidacy of Tillmanite Cole Blease in the gubernatorial election of 1910. They believed that Blease was including them as an important part of the political force of the state. Once in office, however, Blease did not initiate any policies that were beneficial to the mill workers or poor farmers. Instead, his four years in office were highly erratic in behavior. This helped to pave the way for a progressive, Richard I. Manning, to win the governorship in 1914.\n\nIn the 1880s Atlanta editor Henry W. Grady won attention in the state for his vision of a \"New South\", a South based on the modern industrial model. By now, the idea had already struck some enterprising South Carolinians that the cotton they were shipping north could also be processed in South Carolina mills. The idea was not new; in 1854, \"De Bow's Commercial Review of the South & West\" had boasted to investors of South Carolina's potential for manufacturing, citing its three lines of railroads, inexpensive raw materials, non-freezing rivers, and labor pool. Slavery was so profitable before 1860 that it absorbed available capital and repelled Northern investors, but now the time for industrialization was at hand. By 1900, the textile industry was established in upland areas, which had water-power and an available white labor force, comprising men, women, and children willing to move from hard-scrabble farms to mill towns.\n\nIn 1902, the Charleston Expedition drew visitors from around the world. President Theodore Roosevelt, whose mother had attended school in Columbia, called for reconciliation of still simmering animosities between the North and the South.\n\nThe Progressive Movement came to the state with Governor Richard Irvine Manning III in 1914. The expansion of bright-leaf tobacco around 1900 from North Carolina brought an agricultural boom. This was broken by the Great Depression starting in 1929, but the tobacco industry recovered and prospered until near the end of the 20th century. Cotton remained by far the dominant crop, despite low prices. The arrival of boll weevil infestation sharply reduced acreage, and especially yields. Farmers shifted to other crops.\n\nBlack sharecroppers and laborers began heading North in large numbers in the era of World War I, a Great Migration that continued for the rest of the century, as they sought higher wages and much more favorable political conditions.\n\n\"Main Article: Civil Rights movement in South Carolina\"\n\nCompared to hot spots such as Mississippi and Alabama, desegregation went rather smoothly during the 1950s and 1960s in South Carolina. As early as 1948, however, when Strom Thurmond ran for President on the States Rights ticket, South Carolina whites were showing discontent with the Democrats' post–World War II continuation of the New Deal's federalization of power. South Carolina blacks had problems with the Southern version of states' rights; by 1940, the voter registration provisions written into the 1895 constitution effectively still limited African American voters to 3,000—only 0.8 percent of those of voting age in the state. African Americans had not been able to elect a representative since the 19th century. Hundreds of thousands left the state for industrial cities in the Great Migration of the 20th century. By 1960, during the Civil Rights Movement, South Carolina had a population of 2,382,594, of whom nearly 35%, or 829,291 were African Americans, who had been without representation for 60 years. In addition, the state enforced legal racial segregation in public facilities.\n\nNon-violent action against segregation began in Rock Hill in 1961, when nine black Friendship Junior College students took seats at the whites-only lunch counter at a downtown McCrory's and refused to leave. When police arrested them, the students were given the choice of paying $200 fines or serving 30 days of hard labor in the York County jail. The Friendship Nine, as they became known, chose the latter, gaining national attention in the Civil Rights Movement because of their decision to use the \"jail, no bail\" strategy.\n\nThe rapid decline of agriculture in the state has been one of the most important developments since the 1960s. As late as 1960, more than half the state's cotton was picked by hand. Over the next twenty years, mechanization eliminated tens of thousands of jobs in rural counties. By 2000, only 24,000 farms were left, with fewer than 2% of the population; many others lived in rural areas on what were once farms, but they commuted to non-farm jobs. Cotton was no longer king, as cotton lands were converted into timberlands. Until the 1970s rural areas had controlled the legislature.\n\nAfter 1972, both houses of the state legislature were reapportioned into single-member districts, ending another rural advantage. Coupled with the federal Voting Rights Act of 1965, which protected voting for African Americans, the reapportionment transformed South Carolina politics. The South Carolina Democratic party, which dominated the state for nearly a century after Reconstruction, due to suppression of black voting, began to decline at the state and county level with the 1994 elections. The majority white voters had been supporting Republican presidential candidates since the late 1960s and gradually elected the party candidates to local and state offices as well. Republicans won all but one statewide constitutional office, and control of the state house of representatives.\n\nFritz Hollings, governor 1959–63, who was a key supporter of development, executed a campaign to promote industrial training programs and implemented a state-wide economic development strategy. The end of the Cold War in 1990 brought the closing of military installations, such as the naval facilities in North Charleston, which Rep. Mendel Rivers had long sponsored. The quest for new jobs became a high state priority. Starting in 1975 the state used its attractive climate, lack of powerful labor unions, and low wage rates to attract foreign investment in factories, including Michelin, which located its U.S. headquarters in the state. The stretch of Interstate 85 from the North Carolina line to Greenville became \"UN Alley\" as international companies opened operations.\n\nTourism became a major industry, especially in the Myrtle Beach area. With its semitropical climate, cheap land and low construction costs (because of low wages), the state became a developer's dream. Barrier islands, such as Kiawah and Hilton Head, were developed as retirement communities for wealthy outsiders. The state's attempts to manage coastal development in an orderly and environmentally sound manner have run afoul of federal court decisions. The U.S. Supreme Court (in \"Lucas v. South Carolina Coastal Council\") ruled that the state, in forbidding construction on threatened beachfront property, had, in effect, seized the plaintiff's property without due process of law. The rush to build upscale housing along the coast paid its price in the billions of dollars of losses as Hurricane Hugo swept through on September 21–22, 1989. Charleston was more used to hurricanes; historical preservation groups immediately stepped in to begin salvage and reconstruction, with the result that one year after Hugo, the city was virtually returned to normal.\n\nBy the late 1980s, however, the state's economic growth rate flattened. South Carolina's development plan focused on offering low taxes and attracting low-wage industries, but the state's low levels of education have failed to attract high wage, high tech industries.\n\nIn 1991, under the leadership of then Governor Carroll A. Campbell, the state successfully recruited BMW's (Bavarian Motor Works) only U.S. auto factory to the city of Greer, in Spartanburg County. Second-tier and third-tier auto parts suppliers to BMW likewise established assembly and distribution facilities near the factory, creating a significant shift in manufacturing from textiles to automotive.\n\nIn 2009, the state outbid the state of Washington for a giant new Boeing plant, to be constructed in North Charleston. Boeing must create at least 3,800 jobs and invest more than $750 million within seven years to take advantage of the various tax inducements, worth $450 million.\n\nIn the 1970s, South Carolina white voters elected the state's first Republican governor since Reconstruction. In 1987 and 1991, the state elected and reelected Governor Carroll Campbell, another Republican. Many politicians switched from the Democratic Party to the GOP, including David Beasley, a former Democrat who claimed to have undergone a spiritual rebirth; he was elected governor as a Republican. In 1996, Beasley surprised citizens by announcing that he could not justify keeping the Confederate flag flying over the capitol. He said that a \"spate of racially motivated violence compelled him to reconsider the politics and symbolism of the Confederate flag, and he concluded it should be moved.\" Traditionalists were further surprised when Bob Jones III, head of Bob Jones University, announced he held the same view.\n\nBeasley was upset for reelection in 1998 by the little-known Jim Hodges, a state assemblyman from Lancaster. Hodges attacked Beasley's opposition to the creation of a state lottery to support education. Hodges called for a fresh tax base to improve public education. Despite Hodges' unwillingness to join Beasley in his opposition to flying the Confederate flag, the NAACP announced its support for Hodges. (At the same time the NAACP demanded a boycott of conferences in the state over the flag issue). Hodges reportedly accepted millions in contributions from the gambling industry, which some estimated spent a total of $10 million to defeat Beasely.\n\nAfter the election, with public opinions steadfastly against video gambling, Hodges asked for a statewide referendum on the issue. He claimed that he would personally join the expected majority in saying \"no\" on legalized gambling, but vowed not to campaign against it. Critics in both parties suggested that Hodges' debts to the state's gambling interests were keeping him from campaigning against legalized gambling. The state constitution does not provide for referendums except for ratification of amendments. State legislators shut down the state's video casinos soon after Hodges took office.\n\nUpon his election, Hodges announced that he agreed with Beasley's increasingly popular compromise proposal on the Confederate flag issue. He supported the flag's transfer to a Confederate monument on the State House's grounds. Many South Carolinians agreed with this position as the only solution. Further, they admired Hodges' solution to nuclear waste shipments to the state. Hodges alienated moderate voters sufficiently so that in 2002, most of the state's major newspapers supported the Republican Mark Sanford to replace him. Hodges was held responsible for the state's mishandling of the Hurricane Floyd evacuation in 1999. By 2002, most of the funds from Hodges' \"South Carolina Education Lottery\" were used to pay for college scholarships, rather than to improve impoverished rural and inner-city schools. Religious leaders denounced the lottery as taxing the poor to pay for higher education for the middle class.\n\nIn the lottery's first year, Hodges' administration awarded $40 million for \"LIFE Scholarships\", granted to any South Carolinian student with a B average, graduation in the top 30% of the student's high school class, and an 1,100 SAT score. Hodges' administration awarded $5.8 million for \"HOPE Scholarships\", which had lower GPA requirements.\n\nHodges lost his campaign for reelection in 2002 against the Republican conservative Mark Sanford, a former U.S. congressman from Sullivan's Island.\n\nMark Sanford served two terms as governor from 2003 to 2011. He left office in the heat of a political scandal; while in office, Sanford took a trip to Argentina without anyone's knowing it, and he reportedly had an affair with a woman. Sanford later publicly apologized for the affair, but he and his wife, Jenny Sullivan, divorced in 2010. Sanford was elected to the United States House of Representatives from South Carolina's 1st District in May 2013, a position which he also held from 1995 to 2003.\n\nIn 2012, Governor Nikki Haley appointed Tim Scott as one of South Carolina's two United States Senators. In 2014, Scott won election to the office and became the first African-American to serve as U.S. Senator from South Carolina since the Civil War era. \nIn 2010, Nikki Haley, who took office as Governor of South Carolina in January 2011, became the first female to be elected governor. Additionally, Haley was the first person of Asian-Indian descent to be elected governor. Haley served from 2011 until 2017; President Donald Trump nominated her as the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, a position which she accepted and was approved by the United States Senate. After Haley's resignation on January 24, 2017, Henry McMaster became the incumbent, 117th governor of South Carolina.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208838", "title": "Liga Nacional de Básquet", "text": "Liga Nacional de Básquet\n\nThe Liga Nacional de Básquet (abbreviated LNB, and literally in English, \"National Basketball League\"), also commonly referred to as \"La Liga de Básquet\" (\"The Basketball League\"), is the top-tier level of the Argentine basketball league system. The league is under the auspices of the Basketball Clubs' Association (in Spanish: \"Asociación de Clubes de Básquetbol\"). The LNB's predecessor league is the now defunct Campeonato Argentino de Clubes, which was organized by the Argentine Basketball Federation.\n\nThe league was created through the efforts of basketball coach León Najnudel, and sports journalist Osvaldo Orcasitas, in the 1980s, to make Argentine men's club basketball more competitive, through the merging of the many existing local leagues. It is designed like the NBA, with a regular season, all-star game, and playoffs. However, unlike the NBA, the LNB has a promotion and relegation system, with the La Liga Argentina (LLA), the league level that is immediately below the LNB.\n\nA tribute to Najnudel's vision, is the string of successes of the senior men's Argentine national basketball team, culminating with the team's Summer Olympic Games gold medal won at the 2004 Summer Olympics, and the international careers of many players who started in the league.\n\nBefore the league was established, the regular tournament was Campeonato Argentino de Clubes where teams from all the provinces took part. The league had a regional format and playoffs.\n\nFor the 1984 edition there was 64 teams. The association decided to retire 10 teams, moving them to \"Primera Nacional A\". Of those teams, 4 were from city of Buenos Aires, and the provinces of Buenos Aires, Córdoba and Santa Fe were represented by 2 teams each.\n\nAs a result, a number of 54 teams played the Argentino de clubes. At the end of the tournament, the six best placed team would promote to Primera A, and the rest of the clubs would be relegated to Primera B (second division).\n\nThe first edition of Liga Nacional was played within 1985, with 16 teams participating although Independiente de Tucumán abandoned the championship for economic reasons. The first game was played on April 26, 1985, when San Lorenzo de Almagro faced Argentino de Firmat at Estadio Obras Sanitarias.\n\nFerro Carril Oeste was the first LNB champion after defeating Atenas de Córdoba in 3 games. The next season (1986), Ferro Carril Oeste won its second consecutive title, beating Olimpo de Bahía Blanca in 5 games (3-1 on aggregate). The \"Verdolaga\" played its third consecutive final series in 1987, but was finally defeated by Atenas, that won the first of 9 titles, being the most winning LNB team to date.\n\nIn 1988 Atenas won a second championship beating River Plate and the next year Ferro won another title, being the only title won by León Najnudel as coach.\n\nFollowing a system similar to the European basketball leagues, the Liga Nacional features promotion and relegation. Contested by 20 teams, the top division is divided in two stages: the first one consists of a double round-robin competition, with standings decided by a points system. At the end of the season, teams placed 1st to 16th advance to the playoffs, while the last 2 teams play a series to avoid relegation.\n\nThe playoffs stage is divided in four parts, where winning teams qualify to the next stage while defeated teams retire from the tournament. The successive stages are quarter finals, semi-finals and the finals. Quarter and semi-finals are played in a 2-2-1 format (best-of-five) while finals are played in a 2-2-1-1-1 format, which rounds are best-of-seven series.\n\nSource: LNB website.\n\nThese are the yearly individual awards are given by the league as a recognition to the most valuable player (in both, regular season and finals) and the top scorer. Leonardo Gutiérrez was chosen finals MVP a record of 4 times, while Joe Bunn is the most times top scorer (5 seasons).\n\nAs of September 2019, 17 players have their jerseys retired. Atenas was the team which started this practice (in 2002, with legendary Marcelo Milanesio's #9).\n\n"}
{"id": "2208839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208839", "title": "Shrubland", "text": "Shrubland\n\nShrubland, scrubland, scrub, brush, or bush is a plant community characterized by vegetation dominated by shrubs, often also including grasses, herbs, and geophytes. Shrubland may either occur naturally or be the result of human activity. It may be the mature vegetation type in a particular region and remain stable over time, or a transitional community that occurs temporarily as the result of a disturbance, such as fire. A stable state may be maintained by regular natural disturbance such as fire or browsing. Shrubland may be unsuitable for human habitation because of the danger of fire. The term was coined in 1903.\n\nShrubland species generally show a wide range of adaptations to fire, such as heavy seed production, lignotubers, and fire-induced germination.\n\nIn botany and ecology a shrub is defined as a much-branched woody plant less than 8 m high and usually with many stems. Tall shrubs are mostly 2–8 m high, small shrubs 1–2 m high and subshrubs less than 1 m high.\n\nA descriptive system widely adopted in Australia to describe different types of vegetation is based on structural characteristics based on plant life-form, plus the height and foliage cover of the tallest stratum or dominant species.\n\nFor shrubs 2–8 m high the following structural forms result:\n\nFor shrubs <2 m high the following structural forms result:\n\nSimilarly, shrubland is a category used to describe a type of biome plant group. In this context, shrublands are dense thickets of evergreen sclerophyll shrubs and small trees, called:\n\nIn some places shrubland is the mature vegetation type, and in other places the result of degradation of former forest or woodland by logging or overgrazing, or disturbance by major fires.\n\nA number of World Wildlife Fund biomes are characterized as shrublands, including:\n\n\n\"Xeric\" or \"desert scrublands\" occur in the world's deserts and xeric shrublands ecoregions, or in areas of fast-draining sandy soils in more humid regions. These scrublands are characterized by plants with adaptations to the dry climate, which include small leaves to limit water loss, thorns to protect them from grazing animals, succulent leaves or stems, storage organs to store water, and long taproots to reach groundwater.\n\n\"Mediterranean scrublands\" occur naturally in the Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub biomes, located in the five Mediterranean climate regions of the world. Scrublands are most common near the seacoast, and have often adapted to the wind and salt air of the ocean. Low, soft-leaved scrublands around the Mediterranean Basin are known as \"garrigue\" in France, \"phrygana\" in Greece, \"tomillares\" in Spain, and \"batha\" in Israel. Northern coastal scrub and coastal sage scrub occur along the California coast, strandveld in the Western Cape of South Africa, coastal matorral in central Chile, and sand-heath and kwongan in Southwest Australia.\n\n\"Interior scrublands\" occur naturally in semi-arid areas where soils are nutrient-poor, such as on the matas of Portugal which are underlain by Cambrian and Silurian schists. Florida scrub is another example of interior scrublands.\n\n\nSome vegetation types are formed of \"dwarf-shrubs\": low-growing or creeping shrubs. These include the maquis and garrigues of Mediterranean climates, and the acid-loving dwarf shrubs of heathland and moorland.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208844", "title": "Sukumar Ray", "text": "Sukumar Ray\n\nSukumar Ray (, ; 30 October 1887 – 10 September 1923) was a Bengali poet, story writer, playwright and editor from the Indian subcontinent. He is remembered mainly for his writings for the children. He was the son of children's story writer Upendrakishore Ray, the father of Indian filmmaker Satyajit Ray and grandfather of Indian filmmaker Sandip Ray. His creations such as the collection of poems \"Abol Tabol\" (Gibberish), novella \"HaJaBaRaLa\", short story collection \"Pagla Dashu\" (Crazy Dashu) and play \"Chalachittachanchari\" are considered equal in stature to \"Alice in Wonderland\". More than 80 years after his death, Ray remains one of the most popular of children's writers in Bengali literature.\n\nSukumar Ray was born in a Brahmo family in Calcutta , British India (present day West Bengal) on 30 October 1887. His family hailed from Masua village of Mymensingh division of Eastern Bengal and Assam in British India, presently in Bangladesh. Sukumar's father Upendrakishore Ray was a famous Bengali writer, painter, violin player and composer, technologist, amateur astronomer and entrepreneur. Sukumar's mother Bidhumukhi Devi was daughter of Dwarkanath Ganguly.\nBorn in the era which can be called the pinnacle of the Bengal Renaissance, he grew up in an environment that fostered his literary talents. His father was a writer of stories and popular science; painter and illustrator; musician and composer of songs; a technologist and hobbyist astronomer. Upendrakishore was also a close friend of Rabindranath Tagore, who directly influenced Sukumar. Among other family friends were Jagadish Chandra Bose, Prafulla Chandra Roy, Atul Prasad Sen etc. Upendrakishore studied the technology of blockmaking, conducted experiments, and set up a business of making blocks. The firm M/s U. Ray & Sons, where Sukumar and his younger brother Subinay were involved. His sister, Shukhalata Rao, became a social worker and children's book author. Like his father, Ray also had a close acquaintance with Rabindranath Tagore.\n\nIn 1906, Ray graduated with double Honours in Physics and Chemistry from the Presidency College, then affiliated with the University of Calcutta. Before that he attended City College School, Surya Sen Street along with his classmate, famous funny character \"Pagla Dashu\" appeared in several of his penned story. He was trained in photography and printing technology in England at the School of Photo-Engraving and Lithography, London, and was a pioneer of photography and lithography in India. While in England, he also delivered lectures about the songs of Rabindranath before Tagore won the Nobel Prize. Meanwhile, Sukumar had also drawn acclaim as an illustrator. As a technologist, he also developed new methods of halftone blockmaking, and technical articles about this were published in journals in England. The \"Penrose Annual\" published two articles by Ray. While in the United Kingdom he joined the Royal Photographic Society in 1912 and remained a member until his death, gaining his Fellowship in 1922.\n\nUpendrakishore started a publishing firm, \"U. Ray and Sons\", which Sukumar and Subinay helped to run. While Sukumar went to England to learn printing technology, Upendrakishore purchased land, constructed a building, and set up a printing press with facilities for high-quality halftone colour blockmaking and printing. He launched the children's magazine, \"Sandesh\", in May, 1913. Very soon after Sukumar's return from England his writings and sketches started appearing in Sandesh. After Upendrakishore died on 20 December 1915, Sukumar ran the printing and publishing businesses and the \"Sandesh\" for about eight years. His younger brother Subinoy helped him, and many relatives pitched in writing for \"Sandesh\".\nSukumar Ray was also known as the convener of \"Monday Club\" (), a weekly gathering of like-minded people at the Ray residence, where the members were free to express their opinions about the world at large. A number of poems were penned by Sukumar Ray in relation to the matters concerning \"Monday Club\", primarily soliciting attendance, announcing important meetings etc.\n\nSukumar Ray was also a leader of the reformist wing in the Brahmo Samaj. Sukumar Ray wrote a long poem \"Atiter Katha\" (Bengali: অতীতের কথা), which was a popular presentation of the history of the Brahmo Samaj—it was published as a small booklet to introduce the rationale of the Brahmo Samaj to children. Sukumar also campaigned to bring in Rabindranath Tagore, the most famous Brahmo of his time, as a leader of the Samaj.\n\nSukumar married Suprabha Das, granddaughter of Kali Narayan Gupta (maternal grand father of Atul Prasad Sen) on December 13, 1919, and a family relation thus was developed between Sukumar and Atul Prasad.\n\nSukumar Ray delved into a unique genre of pure nonsense and gibberish, a pioneering work in Bengali literature with a few exceptions, which was none less interesting than its predecessors of Lewis Carrol's Alice in Wonderland. Amazing sense of humor, sharp power of observation and unfathomed wit merged with a profound command on selection of words produced a class of humor which was equally approachable by children as well as the grown ups. Satyajit Ray, in the preface of the first edition of the compilation of Sukumar Ray's complete works in his centenary year, \"Sukumar Sahitya Samagra\", wrote: \nAfter his father's death in 1915, Sukumar had to take over responsibility of publication of \"\"Sandesh\"\", and his creativity reached its pinnacle. The 45 limericks in \"Abol Tabol\" and many other creations published in \"Sandesh\" still amuse the readers of all ages. He created many characters in his prose and poems. Kaath Buro, Tash Goru, Huko Mukho Hangla, Kumro Potash etc. were fictitious characters, though they were very close to our known world. He himself described his works as the product of \"Kheyal Ros\" (হঠাৎ ইচ্ছা;ঝোঁক/Wish; Whims; Freak; Fancy).\n\nSukumar Ray died on 10 September 1923 at his Garpar residence in Kolkata of severe infectious fever, leishmaniasis, for which there was no cure at the time. He left behind his widow and their only child, Satyajit, who was only two years old at that time. Satyajit Ray would later shoot a documentary on Sukumar Ray in 1987, 5 years before his own death.\n\n\nBibliography in Bengali about Sukumar Ray's works, in reverse chronological order (newest first).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208853", "title": "Audi S6", "text": "Audi S6\n\nThe Audi S6 is the high performance variant of the Audi A6, an executive car produced by German automaker Audi. It went on sale in 1994, shortly after the \"A6\" designation was introduced, replacing the \"100\" nameplate.\n\nThe original S6 (\"Ur-S6\") was largely the same car as the outgoing, original Audi S4 (C4) (\"Ur-S4\"), with the only visible differences being new body-cladding and badging. In certain markets where the even-higher performance RS6 which is also based on the A6 is not sold, the S6 is the most powerful A6 trim there.\n\nThe S6, like all Audi \"S\" models, is fitted as standard with Audi's trademark quattro four-wheel drive (4WD) system, the S6 using the Torsen-based permanent 4WD.\n\nAudi was restructuring their model lineup in early and mid-1990s, and in late 1994, began selling the fifth generation (C4) Audi 100 model, re-badged as the Audi A6. Wanting to keep a sports-saloon in their lineup, the company made small revisions to what was previously known as the Audi S4, renaming it the Audi S6; the S4 name would eventually be re-used for a completely different model derived from Audi's smaller Volkswagen Group B platform-based Audi A4. As this was the first S6 model from Audi, it is commonly referred to as the \"Ur-S6\", derived from the German augmentive, \"Ursprünglich\" (meaning: original).\n\nIt was available as both a saloon/sedan (\"typ\" 4A5), and an \"Avant\" (\"typ\" 4A9) (estate/wagon) to European and United States customers, but only as a saloon in Canada, Asia and Australia. Audi's trademark \"procon-ten\" safety system was standard fitment.\n\nFrom its launch in late 1994, the Audi S6 was powered by a turbocharged inline five-cylinder petrol engine (parts code prefix: 034, identification code: AAN) with a Bosch Motronic electronic engine control unit (ECU), producing a motive power output of at 5,900 rpm, and at around 1,950 rpm, whilst consuming high octane \"Super Plus\" 98RON unleaded petrol. This engine gave the S6 a top speed of , and a 0 to of 6.7 seconds; with being reached in 17.5 seconds.\n\nThe vehicle was available with a standard six-speed manual transmission (five-speed only in North America), and Audi's dynamic Torsen T-1 quattro permanent four-wheel drive system.\n\nAudi made a high-performance, 4.2-litre V8 engine (parts code prefix: 077, identification code: AEC) with a Bosch Motronic ECU available as an option in the original European S4s, and made the decision to continue to do so with the S6, making a version of the 4.2 available as an optional upgrade over the 2.2-litre inline five-cylinder turbo. Unlike the five-cylinder turbocharged version, the V8-powered S6 was supplied with a four-speed automatic transmission as standard, but kept the quattro four wheel drive. A six-speed manual gearbox was also available as an option.\n\nThe C4 braking system included radially ventilated disc brakes front and rear; with diameter by thick discs, with two-piston floating Girling calipers bearing the interlocking four-ringed Audi logo, and four individual pads per caliper up front, and by discs with Lucas single-piston sliding calipers at the rear. Bosch Anti-lock Braking System (ABS) with EDS was also standard.\n\nStandard wheels were 7½Jx16 \"Avus\" cast aluminium alloy wheels with 225/50 R16 tyres. Later cars received 8Jx17 \"Avus\" wheels with 255/40 R17 tyres. An optional 7½Jx15 five-arm alloy wheel, with 215/60 R15 tyres, an 8Jx16 five double-spoke alloy, an 8Jx17 10-spoke alloy were also available.\n\nAs a swan song to the C4 platform, an even more powerful, and very limited-production Audi S6 PLUS was briefly available to European customers. The S6 PLUS, developed by Audi's wholly owned high performance subsidiary, quattro GmbH, was available for sale during the 1997 model year only (production from June 1996 to October 1997). A total of 952 cars were produced–855 Avant, and 97 saloons.\n\nIt was powered by another version of the 32-valve (four valves per cylinder) 4.2-litre V8 engine (parts code prefix: 077, identification code: AHK, later to be seen in the Audi S8 as AKH). Audi's performance division reworked key parts of the internal combustion engine, increasing the motive power to . It was only available with a revised six-speed manual transmission (parts code prefix: 01E, identification code: DGU) (gear ratios - 1st: 3.500, 2nd: 1.889, 3rd: 1.320, 4th: 1.034, 5th: 0.857, 6th: 0.730), with a final drive ratio of 4.111.\n\nFurther revisions were made to the suspension, brakes and wheels. The front brake discs were enlarged to in diameter by thick. Standard wheels were 8Jx17 \"Avus\" cast aluminium alloy wheels, with an optional 7Jx16 alloy wheel for use with winter tyres was also available.\n\nWith so much power on tap, the S6 Plus saloon could reach from a standstill in 5.6 seconds, with the Avant a tenth of a second slower at 5.7 seconds, making it comparable in terms of acceleration to vehicles like the Porsche 944 Turbo.\n\nHella xenon high intensity discharge (HID) headlamps (still with the C4s triple bulb design, only low beam) were available as an option.\n\nIn late 1997, Audi introduced an all-new range of Audi A6 models, based on the Volkswagen Group C5 platform. A new Audi S6, now officially known as the Audi S6 quattro appeared in 1999, to complement its A6 platform-mate. It was available in a four-door saloon/sedan and a five-door Avant (estate/wagon). In North America, the Avant bodystyle was the only version available. The vehicle could accelerate from standstill to in 5.7 seconds, and from 0 to in 21.7 seconds. The top speed was electronically governed to .\n\nThis generation of S6 went out of production in 2003.\n\nThe engine was a new rubber-hydro mounted all-aluminium alloy 4.2-litre 40-valve (five valves per cylinder) 90° V8 (parts code: 077, identification codes: AQJ [Sept 99-May 1], ANK [Sept 00-onwards]). It had double overhead camshafts on each cylinder bank and solenoid-operated magnesium two-stage variable intake manifold. It displaced , and was rated at at 6,600 rpm, producing of torque at 3,400 rpm. It satisfied the European Union EU3 emissions standard, and was managed by a Bosch Motronic ME 7.1.1 electronic engine control unit (ECU) with manifold-sited sequential fuel injection, mapped direct ignition with eight individual spark coils, Bosch longlife spark plugs, four heated lambda sensors and two catalytic converters, cylinder-selective knock control and a Bosch \"E-Gas\" drive by wire throttle. The engine was cooled with the aid of two electric cooling fans, replacing the single viscous fan of earlier models.\n\nAn oil-cooled six-speed manual transmission (parts code: 01E, identification code: EEY) was standard, with gear ratios as follows: 1st: 3.500, 2nd: 1.889, 3rd: 1.320, 4th: 1.034, 5th: 0.857, 6th: 0.730; final drive: 4.111. An optional ZF 5HP24A five-speed tiptronic automatic transmission was also available (parts code: 01L, identification codes: EFN [Sept 99-May 1], FBD [June 00-onwards]) with gear ratios as follows: 1st: 3.571, 2nd: 2.200, 3rd: 1.508, 4th: 1.000, 5th: 0.803; and final drive ratio: 2.909). The automatic included steering wheel mounted paddle shifters, and a \"Dynamic Shift Program\" (DSP) for improved gear selection based on driving conditions.(paddle shift optional) Torsen T-1 based dynamic quattro permanent four-wheel drive was also standard. Both front and rear axles utilised \"Electronic Differential Lock\" (EDL), which is a function of the Bosch ESP 5.7 Electronic Stability Programme.\n\nCompared to its A6 sibling, the suspension on the S6 was stiffened and lowered by , and utilised gas-pressurised shock absorbers.\n\nZF rack and pinion \"servotronic\" speed-sensitive power steering was standard.\n\nBrakes consisted of radially vented brake discs front and rear. The fronts are sized at diameter by thick, and are clamped by Lucas HP2 four-piston calipers. At the rear, the discs are by , and use a Lucas single-piston sliding caliper.\n\nBosch ESP 5.7 Electronic Stability Programme, with Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Brake Assist, and Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD) completed the brake system.\n\nWheels are 8Jx17\" cast alloy \"Avus\" 6-spoke alloy wheels, with 255/40 ZR17 tyres.\nMine was delivered standard with 19\" Avis 6 spoke and 245'35/zr19 tyre's\n\nThe body panels were largely based on the Audi A6 4.2 model, with slightly flared wheel arches and door sills, with the bonnet (hood) and front wings being constructed from aluminium. Other features included S6 badging, bolstered seats (optional Recaro seats), polished aluminium exterior door mirror housings, unique front grille, and rear bootlid/tailgate spoiler.\n\nA higher performance Audi RS 6 was also available from 2002 to 2004. It was built by Audi's high performance private subsidiary quattro GmbH. It used a twin-turbo (\"biturbo\") version of the 4.2-litre V8 engine (identification code: BCY). Power output was at 5,700 to 6,400 (rpm), and torque was from 1,950 to 5,600 rpm. The only transmission was a five-speed tiptronic automatic.\n\nWheels and tyres were upgraded to , or (5/15 arm design), and there was the \"Dynamic Ride Control\" (DRC) system available for the suspension, which featured diagonally interlinked shock absorbers to give better body control during extreme cornering, acceleration and braking. Compared to the standard S6, the suspension was lowered by . The brake discs were ventilated and upgraded to at the front and at the rear.\n\nIt can accelerate from 0- in 4.6 seconds. 0- times are 16.6 seconds for the saloon and 16.8 seconds for the Avant.\n\nThe Audi S6 5.2 FSI quattro (\"Typ\" 4F) was introduced at the 2006 North American International Auto Show in January.\n\nThe high-performance version of the C6 Audi A6, the S6 uses the Volkswagen Group C6 platform, and is available in saloon/sedan and Avant (estate/wagon) bodystyles. Factory production started in June 2006. A facelifted version of the S6 was released in late 2008 for the 2009 model year. In 2010, the S6 gained Audi's third-generation MMI electronics controller and real-time traffic information.\n\nThe engine in the C6 S6 is an even firing all-aluminium alloy Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) 40-valve (four valves per cylinder) 90° V10 (parts code: 07L, identification code: BXA). Compared with the related 5.0-litre V10 found in the Lamborghini Gallardo, Audi's variant has a longer stroke and wider bore which increases the displacement of the engine so that it produces more torque at lower revs and is thus more suitable for the larger and heavier S6. It produces at 6,800 rpm and of torque from 3,000 to 4,000 rpm. It uses twin chain-driven double overhead camshafts with variable valve timing for both intake and exhaust valves. The engine is managed by a Bosch Motronic MED 9.1 electronic engine control unit (ECU), which controls the mapped direct ignition, ten individual spark coils, common rail cylinder-direct sequential multi-point fuel injection, and drive-by-wire throttle.\n\nA ZF 6HP26 six-speed tiptronic automatic transmission (parts code: 09E, identification codes: JBW, JMS, KHD, JLL) (gear ratios - 1st: 4.171, 2nd: 2.340, 3rd: 1.521, 4th: 1.143, 5th: 0.867, 6th: 0.691), with steering wheel-mounted \"paddle-shifters\" is the only transmission available. Torsen-based quattro permanent four-wheel drive - initially with the T-1 symmetrical differential, and from 2007 model year with the latest 40:60 front:rear asymmetric/dynamic Torsen T-3 differential, is standard. The final drive ratio is 3.801. Traction is assisted \"Electronic Differential Lock\" (EDL) and \"Anti-Slip Regulation\" (ASR) (commonly known as traction control system) - both functions of the Bosch ESP 8.0 Electronic Stability Programme.\n\nThe same engine is used in the latest Audi D3 S8, but in a higher state of tune where it develops , as the S6 is not to be positioned above the S8 in output. With the discontinuation of the S8 5.2 FSI after the 2009 model year and the RS 6 5.0 TFSI in late 2010, the S6 5.2 FSI and R8 5.2 FSI were the remaining Audi vehicles that have V10 engines. The S6 5.2 FSI was discontinued after the 2011 model year, shortly before the release of the 2012 Audi A6 (C7).\n\nFor the sprint from rest to , the S6 saloon takes 5.2 seconds, with the quarter mile passing in 13.5 seconds. Top speed is electronically limited to . However a test by Edmunds found that the S6 takes 5.7-seconds to reach 60 mph (97 km/h), a full second or so behind the BMW M5 and Mercedes-Benz E63 AMG (which are the S6's closest competitors in North America, since the RS6 is not sold there), and that the 2009 Audi A6 3.0 TFSI (a supercharged 3.0L V6) has almost equivalent performance to the S6 5.2 FSI. Yet, in a 2007 track test by \"Road & Track\", the C6 S6 went from 0-60 mph (97 km/h) in 5.1 seconds, while it covered the quarter-mile in 13.5 seconds. Despite its heft at 4,500 pounds, the S6 has quick reflexes and agility, with the assistance of Audi's quattro system.\n\nThe brakes consist of radially ventilated discs front and rear. The fronts are sized at in diameter by thick, and are clamped by gloss black painted Continental Teves two-piston sliding calipers. The rear discs are by thick, and use gloss black Girling-TRW single piston sliding calipers with an integrated electro-mechanical parking brake.\n\nA Bosch ESP 8.0 Electronic Stability Programme, with Anti-lock Braking System (ABS), Brake Assist, and Electronic Brakeforce Distribution (EBD) completed the brake system.\n\nStandard alloy wheels consist of 9Jx19\" cast aluminium alloy \"5-arm wing design\", shod with Continental SportContact2 265/35 ZR19 tyres. An optional 8½Jx18\" cast alloy \"S design\" with 255/40 ZR18 tyres (either Continental SportContact2 or Bridgestone Potenza RE050A) are also available. A direct-acting Tyre Pressure Monitoring System (TPMS) is also standard.\n\nThe S6 features two rows of five distinctive LED daytime running lamps (DRLs) along each side of the front bumper air intakes which indicates the 10-cylinder engine as a point of differentiation from other A6 models. Bi-Xenon high-intensity discharge (HID) adaptive headlights which swivel around corners complement the LED DRLs.\n\nAs with the previous generation, this C6 platform also generated an RS 6 version available for the model years 2008 to 2010, again developed and produced by quattro GmbH. This version of the RS6 included a 5.0-litre () 90° V10 twin-turbocharged (\"biturbo\"), Fuel Stratified Injection (FSI) V10 engine, which produced and . Available in both Avant and saloon bodystyles, it was Audi's single most powerful car. Official performance figures for acceleration from 0- are 4.6 seconds for the Avant and 4.5 seconds for the saloon.\n\nThe Audi S6 4.0 TFSI quattro and its mechanical twin S7 were launched as a 2013 models, a year after the C7 Audi A6 and Audi A7 were released.\n\nThe Audi S6 and S7 are powered by a 4.0L DOHC twin-turbo V8 engine mated to a 7-speed S-tronic Double Clutch Gearbox. This engine makes and of torque, plus there is a cylinder-deactivation system and a stop-start system for improved fuel economy. This was later upgraded to for 2016. The 2013 Audi A8 shares the same engine, while the 2012 Audi S8 has a variant of the powerplant in a higher state of tune making and of torque, both mated to an 8-speed automatic transmission.\n\nThe V8 performance option for the regular Audi A6, found in the 2004-11 Audi A6 4.2 FSI, has been discontinued and the S6 takes over as the engine upgrade. The S6 now compares more closely with the BMW 550i and Mercedes-Benz E550, which also use twin-turbo V8 engines and have available all-wheel drive. The BMW with , and the E550 with . (The 2013 BMW 550i xDrive starts at US$65,595 while the 2013 Audi S6 has an MRSP of US$72,795).\n\nUK sales began in May, with a starting price of £53,995 for the saloon, and £56,050 for the Avant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208857", "title": "Sabhal Mòr Ostaig", "text": "Sabhal Mòr Ostaig\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig (Great Barn of Ostaig) is a public higher education college situated in the Sleat peninsula in the south of the Isle of Skye, with an associate campus at Bowmore on the island of Islay, Ionad Chaluim Chille Ìle (the Islay Columba Centre). Sabhal Mòr is an independent Academic Partner in the federal University of the Highlands and Islands. Uniquely, its sole medium of instruction on degree courses is Scottish Gaelic.\n\nSince its foundation in 1973 Sabhal Mòr Ostaig has played a crucial role in the linguistic and cultural renaissance of Gaelic in Scotland. The college enjoys an international reputation for the study of the history and literature of the Gàidhealtachd, past and present; for research into political, educational, and community aspects of minority language maintenance and revitalisation; and for its engagement with Gaelic creative arts, as well as with broadcast and online media.\n\nSabhal Mòr's research base has been further strengthened to take in sociolinguistics, through the Soillse initiative; corpus planning and historical lexicography, through the Stòrdata Nàiseanta na Gàidhlig/Gaelic Terminology Database and the Faclair na Gàidhlig/Dictionary of Scottish Gaelic projects; and toponomy, through the Ainmean-Àite na h-Alba/Gaelic Place-Names of Scotland advisory partnership, all based at the college. Research capacity is underpinned by the Sabhal Mòr Ostaig Library with its internationally important collections of material related to Gaelic and to the Highlands, and further complemented by the proximity of two major Highland archives: those of MacDonald of Sleat in the Museum of the Isles by Armadale Castle, and the MacLeod papers in Dunvegan Castle. Through academic collaboration and student exchanges, the college maintains close links with partner institutions in Scotland, Ireland, Wales, and Nova Scotia.\n\nWith established residencies for writers, artists, musicians, and dramatists; its prominent degree courses in media and traditional music; its hosting of the national folklore digitisation project Tobar an Dualchais/Kist o Riches; and Fàs, its £8-million centre for creative industries, Sabhal Mòr fulfils an important cultural remit both in the Highlands and in Scotland more generally.\n\nIn early 1972 Iain Noble, financier, merchant banker, and Gaelic activist, bought the northern portion of the Sleat estate, in the south of the Isle of Skye, from the then owner, Godfrey Macdonald, 8th Baron Macdonald of Sleat. Noble's vision for his new Eilean Iarmain estate was inspired by a visit he had made to the Faroe Islands in the late 1960s. There he had been impressed by how the local linguistic and cultural renaissance had helped to create what was at the time a correspondingly dynamic economic and creative revival:\n\nNoble set about putting his ideals into practice. Gaelic speakers were recruited and employed in running new fishing and textile enterprises; a bar was set up beside the estate headquarters as a Gaelic-oriented social and cultural focus for the district; and he was soon involved in a series of wrangles with Inverness County Council over bilingual Gaelic roadsigns on his land. Noble was also inspired by the idea of renovating a semi-derelict farmhouse steading at Ostaig as a Gaelic cultural centre. Plans at first focused around the establishment of a Gaelic library, quickly growing through donations to become the largest public collection of Gaelic-related material in the Hebrides. In Noble's words, however:\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig was established as a charitable trust in 1973, \"as an educational institute, with a special emphasis on Gaelic educational functions\", with a longer-term vision of establishing a Gaelic-medium college and research centre offering vocational further education, as well as opportunities for Gaelic learners to develop their fluency. Four \"urrasairean\" or trustees were appointed: Iain Noble, poet Sorley Maclean, Donald Ruaraidh Macdonald of Portree High School, and Gordon Barr, then a lecturer in biochemistry at the University of Dundee. Barr was to take a year's sabbatical, from June 1973 to September 1974, as the college's first \"fear-stiùiridh\" or director. A two-week summer course for Gaelic learners, attended by 22 students from Scotland, Britain, and further afield, was held in September 1973 in association with An Comunn Gàidhealach. Other activities included a lecture series, a Gaelic playgroup, night classes for Gaelic learners, and events for Gaelic-speaking schoolchildren. The Scottish Arts Council sponsored a Gaelic writer-in-residence, Catrìona Montgomery from Roag near Dunvegan.\n\nIn November 1974 the charitable Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation offered Sabhal Mòr a three-year grant towards the cost of a full-time director. Farquhar MacLennan, a teacher from Raasay accepted the post the following spring. During the early years of the college's existence the trustees’ energy was directed towards fundraising, improving the dilapidated Ostaig steading, expanding summer courses in Gaelic and music, developing links with equivalent institutions in Ireland, Wales, and Canada, and hosting an annual conference.\n\nIn July 1978 the trustees of the college established a committee to examine the possibilities of delivering two-year full-time diploma courses through Gaelic. Two years later the committee recommended the establishment of practically-oriented business and administration courses focusing upon the situation in the Highlands, but employing comparisons with similar regions. Following a fundraising drive to pay for the necessary building improvements, the first two-year HND diploma course, in Business and Gàidhealtachd Studies, began in 1983 under the new college principal, Seán Ó Drisceoil, appointed on a three-year secondment from Údarás na Gaeltachta in Ireland. Seven students, all native speakers from the Western Isles, comprised the first intake. Despite continuing financial problems, the college expanded its programme to take in two new HNDs: Business and Information Studies in 1987, and Business and Secretarial Studies, subsequently Business Studies with Office Technology, in 1988.\n\nDuring the 1980s the full-time student body at Sabhal Mòr numbered on average ten a year. Prospects for future development, however, remained restricted as long as the college focused solely on recruiting business students with fluent Gaelic. Opportunities for significant expansion arose at the end of the decade with the establishment of Comataidh Telebhisein Gàidhlig, endowed by the government with an annual grant of £9.5 million. With its business focus, and existing expertise in ICT, Sabhal Mòr was well placed to take advantage of the demand for a major increase in Gaelic-speaking personnel in the Scottish media. Under its new director Norman Gillies, the college was able to secure funding from the Scottish Office, Highlands and Islands Enterprise, Scottish Television, and Grampian Television for the construction of a £1.4 million accommodation block, Àrainn Ostaig (Ostaig Campus), with 36 student bedrooms, teaching and administration spaces, dining facilities, and a television studio. Àrainn Ostaig opened in the autumn of 1993. The same year, the college launched what would prove a remarkably popular postgraduate diploma in Gaelic Broadcasting.\n\nThe early 1990s saw a series of significant developments at Sabhal Mòr, including the establishment in 1992 of the Lèirsinn Research Centre and the Cànan creative agency. The growth of college accommodation allowed a massive increase in summer courses and short courses. The introduction in 1994 of a new HNC in Gaelic and Communications, a diploma designed to boost the supply of teachers to the growing number of Gaelic medium units in primary schools across the country, further underlined the shift in the college's position in response to the increasing need for qualified Gaelic speakers in the media and education throughout Scotland. During the rest of the decade there would be a major expansion of the college campus and a sizeable growth in student numbers. The latter was the consequence of two new one-year HNC diplomas established in 1997 – the innovative language immersion \"Cùrsa Comais\" intended to enable Gaelic learners to attain comprehension and fluency within a year, and the HNC in Gaelic Performing Arts designed to meet an apparent need for more Gaelic television actors in the future – and the introduction of university-level BA courses the following year.\n\nThe most significant influence on the college's long-term strategic thinking during the 1990s was the prospect of participating as a partner college in the recently proposed University of the Highlands and Islands (UHI) network, and thus being able to offer full-time degree courses. The involvement of Sabhal Mòr Ostaig from 1995 onwards was crucial for the credibility of the wider UHI project. Its Gaelic identity helped to lend the scheme a much needed cultural distinctiveness rooted in the region. In a more concrete sense, the surprising ‘conversion’ of the then Scottish Secretary Michael Forsyth to the merit of the UHI scheme in October 1995 was primarily due to a recent visit to Sabhal Mòr during which he had been given a demonstration of the efficacy of new ISDN communications technologies in linking widely dispersed colleges into a single university network. Forsyth's remarkable volte-face gave the UHI proposal the vital government support required to make a plausible submission to the lottery-funded Millennium Commission.\n\nThe project bid was funded in full: an award of £33.35 million allowed construction of new college buildings throughout the network, in preparation for envisaged university status. Among these buildings was the £6 million second campus at Sabhal Mòr, Àrainn Chaluim Chille (Columba Campus). The site, two hundred yards along the road from the original Ostaig site, occupied part of a site donated by Ellice MacDonald, chairman of Clan Donald Trust, that had previously been earmarked as the site for a new township, Bail’ Ùr Ostaig, the subject of an unsuccessful £15.75 million bid by Sabhal Mòr itself to the Millennium Commission. In September 1998 Àrainn Chaluim Chille, with teaching facilities, library, dining room, lecture/sports/concert hall, and 31 student bedrooms, was completed; the following year saw the opening of the iconic tower Lòchran an Dòmhnallaich (the MacDonald Beacon), containing 31 further bedrooms and partly funded from a £900,000 end-of-year surplus wrangled from the Scottish Office by the then Minister for Industry, Education and Gaelic, Brian Wilson.\n\nIn 1997 the college commenced its first BA courses, \"Cànan is Cultar na Gàidhlig\" (Gaelic Language and Culture), and \"Gàidhlig agus Iomall a’ Chuain Siar\" (Gaelic and the Atlantic Rim), later \"Gàidhlig is Leasachadh\" (Gaelic and Development). These were upgraded into Honours courses in 2002, when a further BA course, \"Gàidhlig agus na Meadhanan\" (Gaelic and Media Studies), was introduced. Another BA (Hons) course, \"Gàidhlig agus Ceòl Traidiseanta\" (Gaelic and Traditional Music), began in 2006, while the following year the teacher-training MA (Hons) course in \"Gàidhlig agus Foghlam\" (Gaelic and Education) began, in collaboration with the University of Aberdeen. These were complemented by highly successful distance learning language courses: from 2000, the award-winning \"Cùrsa Inntrigidh\" for beginners, and six years later, the \"Cùrsa Adhartais\" for advanced learners. The college also offers an innovative master's degree, the MSc in \"Cultar Dùthchasach agus Eachdraidh na Gàidhealtachd\" (Material Culture and Gàidhealtachd History), begun in 2005 as an MA in \"Cultar Dùthchasach agus an Àrainneachd\" (Material Culture and the Environment). Since the University of the Highlands and Islands project was granted university status and thus degree-granting powers in March 2011, the college has strengthened its research base through sponsorship of a growing number of PhD studentships.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig continues its expansion in the twenty-first century. Ionad Chaluim Chille Ìle, the college's associate campus in Islay, opened in 2002. The college was visited by Charles, Prince of Wales and his wife in 2004; he expressed hope for the Gaelic language flourishing, stating \"Scottish life is greatly enriched by the Gaelic dimension,\" and \"If it flourishes here it sends out a message of inspiration and optimism.\" In 2008 the £8 million new centre for creative and cultural industries, Ionad Fàs, incorporating a television studio, offices, workshop and exhibition spaces, and Gaelic-medium childcare facilities, was finished. In 2013 the £6.7 million first phase of the ambitious Kilbeg Village scheme began, a long-term development that will result in new administration and research facilities, a conference and training centre, new college and community sports and recreation provision, a hotel, and up to 75 new houses being built in the space between the two campuses.\n\nAt present Sabhal Mòr Ostaig occupies two linked campuses, Àrainn Ostaig and Àrainn Chaluim Chille.\n\nÀrainn Ostaig, situated some north-east of the main ferry terminal at Armadale, consists of two quadrangles. The renovated Ostaig steading was originally built on a U-plan in the late 1820s by Major Allan MacDonald of Belfinlay, who had the lease of Ostaig farm at the time, then subsequently extended on the south side. The adjoining modern blocks of student accommodation, lecture facilities, and offices, designed by Donald Mackillop Assocs, were opened in autumn 1993. The original buildings contain the student common room and the Tàlla Mòr or Great Hall, used for cèilidhs and smaller concerts, while the newer hosts the popular Café Ostaig.\n\nÀrainn Chaluim Chille, situated 300 yards to the east of Àrainn Ostaig, consists of a main building (1998) incorporating teaching facilities, the college library and dining room, the lecture/sports/concert hall Talla Dhonaidh Chaimbeul, and student accommodation, and the broch-like tower Lòchran an Dòmhnallaich (1999), containing additional student and guest bedrooms and crowned by a glazed drum and lantern viewing platform. Designed by George Mulvagh of Gillespie Architects, the buildings were awarded a ‘Regeneration of Scotland’ architectural award by the Royal Incorporation of Architects in Scotland. Adjoining them is the later Ionad Fàs (2008), the centre for creative and cultural industries, again designed by Gillespie Architects.\n\nThe college's associate campus Ionad Chaluim Chille Ìle, situated beside Bowmore on the island of Islay and incorporating a library and lecture facilities, was opened in 2002.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig is an independent charitable trust and an Academic Partner of the University of the Highlands and Islands. The college itself is governed by a Board of Directors responsible for strategy and policy development, whose chairman since 2007 has been Roddy John MacLeod, now Lord Minginish.\nA college management team supervises the three internal departments of Academic Provision, Arts and Development, and Finance and Planning. College staff are also involved in the governance of the University of the Highlands and Islands, and participate in relevant committees within the wider network partnership.\n\nThe following projects are associated with Sabhal Mòr Ostaig:\n\nThrough its Residency Programme Sabhal Mòr Ostaig also plays host to a writer-in-residence, a musician-in-residence, artists in residence, and a drama artist-in-residence.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig offers the following degrees and diplomas:\n\nDistance Learning:\n\n\nUndergraduate:\n\n\nPostgraduate:\n\n\nIn addition, research staff at the college are presently supervising PhD theses concerning Gaelic language, culture, history, and sociolinguistics.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig also offers a growing number of short courses, well-established programmes in Gaelic language and music as well as more recent ones in history, culture, and crofting. Most are based at the main Skye campus, but the college runs a number of courses elsewhere in the country and abroad.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig Library is an internationally significant collection of material, antiquarian and contemporary, relating to Gaelic language, culture, and music, and Highland history. At present Special Collections number over 6,000 volumes, comprising six principal divisions:\n\n\nThe Library also holds a sizeable collection of historic 78-rpm recordings of Gaelic singers and musicians, donated from the archives of the BBC in Glasgow.\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig Library is a member of the Consortium of European Research Libraries, and the Ligue des Bibliothèques Européenes de Recherche.\n\nThe following have been College Principals and Directors of Sabhal Mòr Ostaig:\n\n\nSabhal Mòr Ostaig has a lively student culture. The college hosts regular concerts, plays, cèilidhs, dances, films, and gigs open to the wider local community, while local hotels and pubs offer weekly music sessions in a variety of styles. There are a number of local sports clubs, and a popular Club Coiseachd/Walking Club allows students the opportunity to enjoy the landscape of Skye and surrounding areas.\n\nAs well as organising social events, the student association Comann nan Oileanach is actively involved in a number of campaigns, strengthening links with students in other Associate Partners in the University of the Highlands and Islands, with Celtic Societies in other universities and with other smaller colleges across the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208859", "title": "Pentazole", "text": "Pentazole\n\nPentazole is an aromatic chemical molecule consisting of a five-membered ring with all nitrogen atoms, one of which is bonded to a hydrogen atom. It has a molecular formula HN. Although strictly speaking a homocyclic, inorganic compound, pentazole has historically been classed as the last in a series of heterocyclic azole compounds containing one to five nitrogen atoms. This set contains pyrrole, imidazole, pyrazole, triazoles, tetrazole, and pentazole.\n\nSubstituted analogs of pentazole are collectively known as pentazoles. As a class, they are unstable and often highly explosive compounds. The first pentazole synthesized was phenylpentazole, where the pentazole ring is highly stabilized by conjugation with the phenyl ring. The derivative 4-dimethylaminophenylpentazole is among the most stable pentazole compounds known, although it still decomposes at temperatures over 50 °C. It is known that electron-donating groups stabilize aryl pentazole compounds.\n\nThe cyclic pentazolium cation () is not known due to its probable antiaromatic character; whereas the open-chained pentazenium cation () is known. Butler \"et al.\" first demonstrated the presence of the cyclic in solution through the decomposition of substituted aryl pentazoles at low temperature. The presence of and (held in solution through the interaction with zinc ions) was proven primarily using N NMR techniques of the decomposition products. These results were initially challenged by some authors, but subsequent experiments involving the detailed analysis of the decomposition products, complemented by computational studies, bore out the initial conclusion. The pentazolide anion is not expected to last longer than a few seconds in aqueous solution without the aid of complexing agents. The discovery of pentazoles spurred attempts to create all-nitrogen salts such as , which should be highly potent propellants for space travel.\n\nIn 2002 the pentazolate anion was first detected with electrospray ionization mass spectrometry In 2016 the ion was also detected in solution. In 2017, white cubic crystals of the pentazolate salt, (N)(HO)(NH)Cl were announced. In this salt, the rings are planar. The bond lengths in the ring are 1.309 Å, 1.310 Å, 1.310 Å, 1.324 Å, and 1.324 Å. When heated, the salt is stable up to 117 °C, and over this temperature it decomposes to ammonium azide. Under extreme pressure conditions, the pentazolate ion was also synthesized. It was first obtained in 2016 in the form of the CsN salt by compressing and laser-heating a mixture of CsN embedded in molecular N at 60 GPa. Following the pressure release, it was found metastable down to 18 GPa. In 2018, another team reported the high pressure synthesis of LiN above 45 GPa from a pure lithium surrounded by molecular nitrogen. This compound could be retained down to ambient conditions after the complete release of pressure.\n"}
{"id": "2208860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208860", "title": "Prague Zoo", "text": "Prague Zoo\n\nPrague Zoological Garden (Czech: \"Zoologická zahrada hl. m. Prahy\") is a zoo in Prague, Czech Republic. It was opened in 1931 with the goal to \"advance the study of zoology, protect wildlife, and educate the public\" in the district of Troja in the north of Prague. In 2013, the zoo occupied with in use for exhibits, and housed around 5,000 animals from just 676 species, including 132 species listed as threatened.\n\nThe zoo is rated as the seventh best zoo in the world by Forbes Travel Guide in 2007, and is rated as the fifth best in the world by TripAdvisor.\n\nThe zoo has contributed significantly to saving Przewalski's horse; for many years, it was the leading breeder of the subspecies. Director is Miroslav Bobek.\n\nThe idea for a zoological garden in Prague was first proposed in 1881 in a newspaper article by Count Sweerts-Spork, on the occasion of the marriage of Crown Prince Rudolf of Austria and Princess Stéphanie of Belgium.\nIn 1919, at a meeting of the advisory board for mathematics and natural sciences at the Ministry of Education and National Enlightenment, a committee was established to start the preparatory work on the establishment of the zoo. The zoo was opened to the public on 28 September 1931.\n\nIn 1938, the first artificially bred Andean condor in the world was hatched and reared, and the first artificially bred polar bear, a female named Ilun, followed in 1942. In 1959 Dr. Zdeněk Veselovský was appointed as director of the zoo. Under his leadership, the zoo achieved some world-class successes in the area of breeding and scientific research.\n\nIn 1971 a new pavilion opened for large mammals, including elephants, hippos and rhinos, followed by a big cat pavilion in 1991.\n\nIn 2001 the first artificial breeding of a Przewalski's Horse in the world took place at the zoo.\nIn 2002 Prague suffered the worst floods in its history. A large part of the zoo was flooded and 134 animals died. Well known is the story of Gaston, a sea lion, which the Vltava and Elbe rivers took to Germany, where Gaston died of total exhaustion. However, thanks to a big wave of solidarity and donations, Prague Zoo greatly flourished in the next decade.\n\nIn 2004 the country's largest and most expensive animal pavilion, named the \"Indonesian Jungle\", was opened, and the first Western gorilla was born in Czech Republic, named Moja. This was followed in 2007 by the first breeding of a Komodo dragon in Prague Zoo. In 2009 a new exhibition for brown fur seals was opened, with an enlarged swimming pool and a grandstand. The following year saw a Texas tortoise bred in Europe for the first time.\n\nIn 2011 Moja, a western gorilla famous from the multimedia project \"The Revealed\", was moved to Cabarceno Natural Park in Spain. Four Przewalski's horses were transported to Mongolia to be released into the wild as part of Return of the Wild Horses reintroduction and in situ conservation project.\n\nIn 2012 the zoo saw its highest number of babies born, numbering 1,557 from 211 species, including the world's first breeding of the crowned river turtle and the rufous-cheeked laughingthrush, as well as Prague Zoo's first breeding of the red panda.\nIn 2013 a large new Elephant Valley pavilion was introduced and the first elephant was born in Prague Zoo, named Sita. The zoo was flooded in June the same year for a second time, but most animals were evacuated in time.\n\nIn 2014, a pavilion was opened for 33 critically endangered Chinese giant salamanders, including three adults. The collection features the largest of such salamanders in Europe.\n\nAfter 13 years of waiting, the zoo is among the three unique zoos in the world, which have a breeding pair of Lesser Antillean iguana.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208876", "title": "List of Somaliland politicians", "text": "List of Somaliland politicians\n\nThis is a list of notable politicians from Somaliland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208893", "title": "Carbon suboxide", "text": "Carbon suboxide\n\nCarbon suboxide, or tricarbon dioxide, is an oxide of carbon with chemical formula or O=C=C=C=O. Its four cumulative double bonds make it a cumulene. It is one of the stable members of the series of linear oxocarbons O=C=O, which also includes carbon dioxide (CO) and pentacarbon dioxide (). Although if carefully purified it can exist at room temperature in the dark without decomposing, it will polymerize under certain conditions.\n\nThe substance was discovered in 1873 by Benjamin Brodie by subjecting carbon monoxide to an electric current. He claimed that the product was part of a series of \"oxycarbons\" with formulas CO, namely CO, , CO, , ..., and to have identified the last two; however, only is known. In 1891 Marcellin Berthelot observed that heating pure carbon monoxide at about 550 °C created small amounts of carbon dioxide but no trace of carbon, and assumed that a carbon-rich oxide was created instead, which he named \"sub-oxide\". He assumed it was the same product obtained by electric discharge and proposed the formula . Otto Diels later stated that the more organic names dicarbonylmethane and dioxallene were also correct.\nIt is commonly described as an oily liquid or gas at room temperature with an extremely noxious odor.\n\nIt is synthesized by warming a dry mixture of phosphorus pentoxide () and malonic acid or its esters.\nTherefore, it can be also considered as the anhydride of malonic anhydride, i.e. the \"second anhydride\" of malonic acid.\n\nSeveral other ways for synthesis and reactions of carbon suboxide can be found in a review from 1930 by Reyerson.\n\nCarbon suboxide polymerizes spontaneously to a red, yellow, or black solid. The structure is postulated to be poly(α-pyronic), similar to the structure in 2-pyrone (α-pyrone). The number of monomers in the polymers is variable (see Oxocarbon#Polymeric carbon oxides).\nIn 1969, it was hypothesized that the color of the Martian surface was caused by this compound; this was disproved by the Viking Mars probes (the red color is instead due to iron oxide).\n\nCarbon suboxide is used in the preparation of malonates; and as an auxiliary to improve the dye affinity of furs.\n\nCarbon suboxide, CO, can be produced in small amounts in any biochemical process that normally produces carbon monoxide, CO, for example, during heme oxidation by heme oxygenase-1. It can also be formed from malonic acid. It has been shown that carbon suboxide in an organism can quickly polymerize into macrocyclic polycarbon structures with the common formula () (mostly and ), and that those macrocyclic compounds are potent inhibitors of Na/K-ATP-ase and Ca-dependent ATP-ase, and have digoxin-like physiological properties and natriuretic and antihypertensive actions. Those macrocyclic carbon suboxide polymer compounds are thought to be endogenous digoxin-like regulators of Na/K-ATP-ases and Ca-dependent ATP-ases, and endogenous natriuretics and antihypertensives. Other than that, some authors think also that those macrocyclic compounds of carbon suboxide can possibly diminish free radical formation and oxidative stress and play a role in endogenous anticancer protective mechanisms, for example in the retina.\n\nThe structure of carbon suboxide has been the subject of experiments and computations since the 1970s. The central issue is the question of whether the molecule is linear or bent (i.e., whether <chem>\\theta_{C2} = \\angle C1C2C3 \\ \\overset{?}{=}\\ 180\\!^\\circ</chem>). Studies general agree that the molecule is highly non-rigid, with a very shallow barrier to bending. According to one study, the molecular geometry is described by a double-well potential with a minimum at \"θ\" ~ 160°, an inversion barrier of 20 cm (0.057 kcal/mol), and a total energy change of 80 cm (0.23 kcal/mol) for 140° ≤ \"θ\" ≤ 180°. The small energetic barrier to bending is around the same order of magnitude as the vibrational zero-point energy. Therefore, the molecule is best described as \"quasilinear.\" While infrared and electron diffraction studies have indicated that has a bent structure in the gas phase, the compound was found to possess at least an average linear geometry in the solid phase by X-ray crystallography, although the large thermal ellipsoids of the oxygen atoms and C have been interpreted to be consistent with rapid bending (minimum \"θ\" ~ 170°), even in the solid state.\n\nA heterocumulene resonance form of carbon suboxide based on minimization of formal charges does not readily explain the molecule's non-rigidity and deviation from linearity. To account for the quasilinear structure of carbon suboxide, Frenking has proposed that carbon suboxide be regarded as a \"coordination complex\" of carbon(0) bearing two carbonyl ligands and two lone pairs: <chem display=\"inline\">OC:->\\overset{..}{\\underset{..}{C}}<-:CO</chem>. However, the contribution of dative bonding in and similar species has been criticized as chemically unreasonable by others.\n"}
{"id": "2208895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208895", "title": "Bay Bridge Series", "text": "Bay Bridge Series\n\nThe Bay Bridge Series, or the Battle of the Bay, is a series of baseball games played between—and the rivalry of—Major League Baseball's Oakland Athletics of the American League and San Francisco Giants of the National League. The series takes its name from the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge which links the cities of Oakland and San Francisco. As of 2018, the winner of the annual series retains a trophy fashioned from a piece of the original bridge.\n\nAlthough competitive, the regional rivalry between the A's and Giants is considered a friendly one with mostly mutual companionship between the fans, as opposed to Cubs–White Sox, or Mets–Yankees games where animosity runs high, though sections of each fanbase does harbor towards the entirety of the other. This, however, is limited as many people see the opposing team as no threat to their own; hats displaying both teams on the cap are sold from vendors at the games, and once in a while the teams both dress in uniforms from a historic era of their franchises. Many fans actively cheer for both teams when they are not playing against the other. A's fans cite the Giants blocking a potential move to San Jose as a point of contention. \n\nThe series is also occasionally referred to as the \"BART Series\" for the Bay Area Rapid Transit system that links Oakland to San Francisco. However, the name \"BART Series\" has never been popular beyond a small selection of history books and national broadcasters and has fallen out of favor, likely because BART does not provide direct or easy access to Oracle Park in San Francisco. Bay Area locals almost exclusively refer to the rivalry as the \"Bay Bridge Series\" or the \"Battle of the Bay.\"\n\nOriginally, the term described a series of exhibition games played between the two clubs after the conclusion of spring training, immediately prior to the start of the regular season. It was first used to refer to the 1989 World Series which the Athletics won and the first time both teams had met since they moved to the San Francisco Bay Area. Today, it also refers to games played between the teams during the regular season since the commencement of Interleague play in 1997. Through the 2019 season, the A's have won 64 games, and the Giants have won 60.\n\nThe Giants and Athletics met in the , and World Series as the New York Giants and Philadelphia Athletics. The Giants won, 4–1, in 1905, and the Athletics won in 1911 (4-1) and 1913 (4-2), respectively. Hall of Famers such as John McGraw, Roger Bresnahan, Christy Mathewson, Joe McGinnity and Rube Marquard took part on the Giants side while the Athletics had Connie Mack, Chief Bender, Eddie Plank, Rube Waddell, Frank Baker and Eddie Collins. Such World Series match-ups might have helped contribute to the modern New York-Philadelphia sports rivalry that still continues to this day.\n\nThe San Francisco Giants and Oakland Athletics met for the first time in the 1989 World Series. This series was interrupted minutes before Game 3 on October 17, 1989, when an earthquake, measuring 7.1 on the Richter Scale, struck the San Francisco Bay Area. The resulting damage to both Candlestick Park and to a lesser extent the Oakland Coliseum, along with the emotional and economic damage to the area, delayed the resumption of the series for 10 days, the longest interval between games in World Series history. The earthquake caused the collapse of a portion of the Bay Bridge, the centerpiece of many promotions for the \"Bay Bridge Series\"; however, experts have suggested that the Series actually helped to save countless lives, as many would-be commuters from both sides of the Bay had left work early or stayed in the cities to watch the game - as a result, traffic on the roads below collapsed portions of the Bay Bridge and Cypress Street Viaduct in Oakland (while this disaster killed 42 people, local officials initially assumed that the death toll would be well into the hundreds) was significantly lighter than it would normally be at rush hour.\n\nThe Athletics swept the Giants to win their most recent World Series championship.\n\nBoth teams met for the first time in the regular season in June 1997.\n\nThe Giants' Barry Zito started 0–4 against his former team, finally beating the Athletics on June 12, 2010 at AT&T Park.\n\nThe A's have been considering relocating to San Jose, California, for 13 years but have reportedly met resistance from the Giants. San Jose is located in Santa Clara County, which is considered to be the Giants \"territory\". The Athletics claim that former owner Walter A. Haas, Jr. agreed for the Giants to take over the Santa Clara area when the Giants were considering moving to Florida and needed revenue. The Giants contend that the agreement was not based upon actually relocating the team to Santa Clara as the A's contended. MLB Commissioner Bud Selig, who was fraternity brothers with A's managing partner Lew Wolff at the University of Wisconsin, stated that the A's would not be able to survive as a franchise if they remained at the Oakland Coliseum. The Giants claimed that the territorial rights were \"explicitly reaffirmed by Major League Baseball on four separate occasions,\" when former managing partner Peter Magowan bought the team in the early 1990s. The Giants stated \"upon purchasing the team 20 years ago, our plan to revive the franchise relied heavily on targeting and solidifying our fan base in the largest and fastest growing county within our territory. Based on these Constitutionally-recognized territorial rights, the Giants invested hundreds of millions of dollars to save and stabilize the team for the Bay Area, built AT&T Park privately and has operated the franchise so that it can compete at the highest levels.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2208902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208902", "title": "WiseGirls", "text": "WiseGirls\n\nWiseGirls is a 2002 film directed by David Anspaugh and starring Mira Sorvino, Mariah Carey and Melora Walters as waitresses working at a restaurant run by mobsters. It premiered at the 2002 Sundance Film Festival. The film was released straight to video and did not receive a theatrical release.\n\nThe film centers around Meg (Mira Sorvino), a med student who, after a traumatic experience, moves to Staten Island to live with her grandmother while she gets back on her feet. Her grandmother's care giver, Mrs. Saladino, recommends Meg for a waitress job in a family-run Italian restaurant called 'Santalino's'. There, Meg meets Raychel (Mariah Carey) and Kate (Melora Walters) and becomes fast friends with the two. Not long after starting, Meg discovers exactly what kind of clientele she is serving, the Mob. Meg becomes an adored fixture and valued asset due to her medical training, offering medical advice to several of the mobsters. One night, she becomes the focus of anger from one of the mob men, who slaps her. This leads Frankie (Christian Maelen) and Mr. Santalino to kill the man. Frankie forcibly orders Meg to chop up the body. Now realizing what she has gotten into, she decides she needs to get out as fast as possible. She confides in Kate, and she discovers that Kate is actually an undercover police officer. Meg is then convinced by the police to help them in a sting operation. She is soon discovered and a shoot out ensues in the restaurant. She is believed to be dead. Raychel has moved on to a more subdued life. In the final scene, Kate returns on their birthday, July 11, and reveals that Meg is actually alive, and the girls celebrate the pact that they made the year before. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208906", "title": "Broxi Bear", "text": "Broxi Bear\n\nBroxi Bear is the official mascot of Rangers Football Club. Its name is derived from Rangers' home stadium, in the Ibrox area of Glasgow, Scotland. Broxi being an anagram of Ibrox. Broxi is a brown bear with blue inner ears and nose, wearing a Rangers strip. He made his first appearance in a 2–2 draw against Raith Rovers on 13 November 1993.\n\nBroxi was later accompanied by his \"wife\" Roxi and their \"son\" Boris although from 2001 Roxi and Boris no longer made any on-field appearances at Ibrox. Roxi and Boris did continue to appear on some club merchandise.\n\nIn 2002 Mascots from all over the UK competed in the Disney Channel's Mascot Cup. In the final Broxi competed with and defeated Fred the Red to win the mascot cup for Rangers.\n\nBroxi appeared in Setanta Sports advertising from 2004 to 2009.\n\nSince 2008, Broxi has competed every year in the annual SPFL mascot race at Hamilton Park Racecourse.\n\nOn 9 September 2017, Roxi and Boris were re-introduced in a 4–1 win against Dundee.\n"}
{"id": "2208917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208917", "title": "Sean O'Neill", "text": "Sean O'Neill\n\nSean O'Neill is the name of:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208921", "title": "The Thaw (Star Trek: Voyager)", "text": "The Thaw (Star Trek: Voyager)\n\n\"The Thaw\" is the 39th episode of \"\", the 23rd episode of the . The crew discovers aliens who are mentally connected to a computer.\n\n\"Voyager\" discovers a planet that nineteen years before was the site of a major ecological disaster. The crew finds a set of stasis pods containing five of the aliens; two are dead from heart attacks, and of the other three, they should have been released four years ago from stasis. As the planet has recovered from the disaster, Captain Kathryn Janeway decides to release the other three, but the crew find it impossible to wake them, their brains tied to a central computer connecting all the pods. B'Elanna Torres and Harry Kim volunteer to occupy the other pods and be connected to the central computer.\n\nThey find themselves experiencing a virtual reality, a strange, dark circus-like atmosphere. A clown appears to lead the group of computer-generated characters, attempting to bring the new arrivals to play. When they refuse, the clown drags Kim to a guillotine and prepares to sever his head, but the three aliens soon appear, warning the clown that should they kill Kim, his crew mates will likely shut down the program. The clown agrees, and lets Kim go. On talking to the aliens, Torres and Kim learn that the virtual reality the computer is generating is pulling from their fears, is able to read their thoughts, and is able to induce death of the living person. Torres is able to make a deal with the clown to return out of stasis to explain the situation to \"Voyager\", leaving Kim and the three aliens behind as hostages.\n\nThe clown, while waiting, starts to torture Kim by playing on his fear of hospitals. At one point, Kim is placed on a gurney with the clown about to slice him with a scalpel when his hand is stopped by The Doctor. The clown is bemused by the Doctor, as he cannot read his mind. The Doctor explains that Janeway has offered to provide the clown a simulated brain in exchange for Kim and the aliens. However, the clown reads the minds of his captives, who are aware that the simulated brain will not be the same as a real one, and the clown refuses. Before the Doctor returns to report to Janeway, one of the aliens provides a subtle hint of how to dismantle the computer system.\n\nWith this information, Torres begins to dismantle the simulation, the Doctor returning to keep the clown distracted. The clown discovers the deception as elements of his program are removed, and he kills the alien that gave the Doctor the hint. Janeway stops Torres before the clown takes another life. The Doctor, after communicating with the crew, informs the clown that Janeway will offer herself as a brain for the system in exchange for the remaining hostages or else she will shut down the computerized central computer stasis pod system in 1 minute even if it risks killing the hostages to stop the clown's games. The clown agrees, and soon Janeway appears in the simulation while the remaining hostages are freed. Too late, the clown realizes that Janeway too is a hologram, her mind only minimally connected to the system but not fully connected. With no living being left connected, the crew finish disabling the computer, leaving the clown frightful of the darkness as it engulfs him and the simulation of Janeway. The clown then disappears from existence.\n\nIn 2017, this episode was noted as featuring scary and/or eerie \"Star Trek\" content. In 2012, Den of Geek ranked this the seventh best episode of \"Star Trek: Voyager\", but calling it creepy, for including a virtual \"clown of fear\". in 2014, Io9 ranked The Thaw's clown, as the sixth least threatening villain of \"Star Trek\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2208924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208924", "title": "Ten-lined June beetle", "text": "Ten-lined June beetle\n\nThe ten-lined June beetle (\"Polyphylla decemlineata\"), also known as the watermelon beetle, is a scarab beetle found in the western United States and Canada. The adults are attracted to light and feed on foliage. They can make a hissing sound when touched or otherwise disturbed, which can resemble the hissing of a bat. This sound is made by their wings pushing down, forcing the air out between their wings and back. They can be an agricultural pest affecting a wide range of crops because their larvae feed on plant roots and can weaken or kill the plants.\n\nThey are relatively large in size, some growing to sizes as large as 1.5 inches (3 cm) or more. As in other members of this genus, the males have large distinctive antennae consisting of several lamellate plates, which they close up when threatened. The antennae are used to detect pheromones emitted by the females. The wing covers (elytra) have four long white stripes and one short stripe each. The underside of the thorax is covered with brownish hairs.\nEggs: The eggs are oval, dull, and creamy. They are about 1/16 of an inch long.\n<br>\nLarva: The grub can grow up to 2 inches with 3 pairs of legs, with a white body and brown head. The larval stage can last as long as 4 years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208936", "title": "Ixtapa", "text": "Ixtapa\n\nIxtapa (, ) is a resort city in Mexico, adjacent to the Pacific Ocean in the municipality of Zihuatanejo de Azueta in the state of Guerrero. It is located northwest of the municipal seat, Zihuatanejo, and northwest of Acapulco.\n\nIn the 2005 INEGI Census, the population of Ixtapa was 6,406.\n\nIxtapa is a government-planned tourist resort that was begun in the and constructed on what was once a coconut plantation and mangrove estuary.\n\nIn 1968, the Bank of Mexico created a special fund for the creation of new tourist destinations on the country's coastlines. The first two such destinations were Cancún, in the state of Quintana Roo, and Ixtapa, next to the town of The development of Ixtapa was supported by a loan from the World Bank.\n\nThe master plan for Ixtapa was developed by architects Enrique and Agustín Landa Verdugo, who also participated in the choice of the site. Their project defined the tourist destination's street layout and zoning. The project is organized in super-blocks with irregular shapes, with the high-speed streets separating these blocks, and cul-de-sacs within them. A couple of architects were selected to build this city, some are still residents of this town. Architects like Miguel Ángel Rojas and Concepción Rivera live and work in this town. The famous Mexican Telenovela Marimar was filmed here in 1994.\n\nIxtapa can be reached by air, bus and highway and has its own airport, Ixtapa-Zihuatanejo International. Flights are available from Mexico City, several provincial cities, and various places in the United States and Canada.\n\nAirlines: Aeromar, Aeromexico, Air Canada, Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, Frontier Airlines, Interjet, Sunwing Airlines, TAR Aerolineas, United Airlines, US Airways and WestJet.\n\nCharter Lines: Apple Vacations, Canjet, Champion Air, Funjet Vacations, Delta Vacations, Ryan International, Global Air, Transat Holidays, Sunwing Vacations, Sun Country, Magnicharters, and others.\n\nBus Lines: Autovias, Costa Line, Estrella de Oro, Estrella Blanca, La Linea Plus, Parhikuni, Primera Plus, Turistar/Futura, Omnibus de Mexico and others.\n\nParts of the 1987 film \"Hot Pursuit\" with John Cusack, Wendy Gazelle, Robert Loggia, Jerry Stiller, and Ben Stiller (in his first starring role) were filmed in and around the area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208937", "title": "United States at the 1896 Summer Olympics", "text": "United States at the 1896 Summer Olympics\n\nFourteen competitors from the United States competed in three sports at the 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, Greece. The Americans were the most successful athletes in terms of gold medals, beating host nation Greece, 11 to 10, despite fielding only 14 competitors compared to an estimated 169 Greek entrants. However, the Greeks' 46 total medals dwarfed the Americans' 20.\n\nThe United States team had 27 entries in 16 events, with 20 of the 27 resulting in top-three finishes.\n\nMost of the American competitors were students at Harvard University or Princeton University or members of the Boston Athletic Association. The team trained at The Pennington School, in Pennington, New Jersey, while preparing for the first modern Olympic Games.\n\nOf the 14 Americans at the Athens Games, 12 won medals. Charles Waldstein, a shooter, and Gardner Williams, a swimmer, were the two who did not win any medals.\n\nThe United States squad of 11, which featured only one national champion, won nine gold medals in the twelve athletics events, with contributions from six different athletes. Six silver medals and two bronze medals also went to the Americans in athletics.\n\n\nThe Paine brothers contested only two events, taking the top two spots in the event in which they both competed, the military pistol. Sumner was the only one of the two to enter the free pistol, which he won. Waldstein was the third member of the American shooting contingent, competing in the military rifle event.\n\nWilliams competed in two swimming events, placing in neither.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208939", "title": "Filyovskaya line", "text": "Filyovskaya line\n\nThe Filyovskaya line (, ), or Line 4, is a line of the Moscow Metro. Chronologically the sixth to open, it connects the major western districts of Dorogomilovo and Fili along with the Moscow-City with the city centre. At present it has 13 stations and is 14.9 kilometres long.\n\nThe history of the Filyovskaya line is one of the most complicated in Moscow Metro, due to the eastern radius falling victim of changing policies. Originally the earliest stations are the oldest, dating to 1935 and 1937 when they opened as part of the First stage and operated as a branch from what later became the Sokolnicheskaya line. In 1938 the branch service was liquidated, and the Arbatsko–Pokrovskaya line was created by trains now terminating at Kurskaya. However, during the Second World War, the station Arbatskaya suffered damage when a German bomb pierced its ceiling, as all of the 1930s stations were built subsurface.\n\nThe threat of the Cold War becoming real meant that these early stations were not suited to double as bomb shelters, and instead, a deep parallel section was built. This would have meant the end of the Filyovskaya line, had Nikita Khrushchev as part of his visit to New York City not been inspired by seeing elevated and surface lines. Upon his return, and coinciding with his pursuit to save costs on architecture and construction, he forced to abandon the planned deep-level extension to Fili and instead build a surface line that would see the old stations re-opened. In 1958 the Arbatsko–Filyovskaya line was inaugurated, becoming the sixth to open (the term Arbatsko- was dropped later). The line continued to extend westwards reaching Fili in 1959, along with its separate depot, the Fili Park in 1961 and ultimately the housing massif of Kuntsevo in 1965. A further extension was built to a newer massif in Krylatskoye in 1989.\n\nAll of the stations, save Molodyozhnaya and Krylatskoye, were built surface, the original late 1950s trio was built to an identical side-platform configuration, while the remaining four to a more standards island platform. Despite the success in saving costs, the Russian climate, particularly the winter, the sharp bends, and the small station size made the line one of the most unpopular with passengers.\n\nBy the 21st century, however, Filyovskaya line's fate would change radically. First the rising Moscow City business centre required a metro line, and a two-station branch was opened from Kievskaya in 2005 to Delovoy Tsentr and again in 2006 to Mezhdunarodnaya.\n\nIn early 2008, with the realization of the Strogino–Mitino extension the Filyovskaya line's underground end was taken up by the same Arbatsko–Pokrovskaya line, and its terminus was a redesigned platform at .\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Service branch of 0.9 km was used to connect Aleksandrovsky Sad and Ploshchad Revolyutsii.\n\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> Segment exists as branch on route Aleksandrovskiy Sad – Kiyevskaya – Mezhdunarodnaya.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> On 2 January 2008 the Filyovskaya line was shortened to its terminus at Kuntsevskaya, whilst the stations Molodyozhnaya and Krylatskoye were passed on to the Arbatsko–Pokrovskaya line\n\nThe line is served by the Fili (№ 9) depot and currently the whole fleet is undergoing replacement. The oldest E type trains in Moscow were retired in 2009. Six carriage fleet of 24 trains (a mix of Ezh, Ezh1, Em-508 and Em-509) will was passed on to other depots and replaced by the new 81–740.1/741.1 \"Rusich\" (also known as \"Skif\") which are more suited for the outdoor climate that the line has. Also, there are five old 81-717/714 trains from Koltsevaya and Kalininskaya lines. They are mostly running on the \"Aleksandrovsky sad\" – \"Mezhdunarodnaya\" line, but some trains are running on the main line to \"Kuntsevskaya\".\n\nIn the summer of 2018, the operation of new 81-765.2/766.2/767.2 \"Moskva\" trains began. By December 2018 the line was solely operating 81–765.2/766.2/767.2s.\n\nSubway car types used on the line over the years:\n\n-Series A, B: 1935 - 1953\n\n-Series V: 1958 - 1962\n\n-Series D: 1961 - 1992\n\n-Series E: 1986 - 2007\n\n-Series Ezh, Em-508 and Em-509: 1986 - 2009\n\n-Series 81-740A/741A: 2005 - 2006\n\n-Series 81-740.1/741.1: 2005 - 2019\n\n-Series 81-717/714: 2011 - 2018\n\n-Series 81-765.2/766.2/767.2: 2018 - present\n\nAfter the line lost its terminus, its passenger flow dropped substantially, making it more local. Presently work is planned to upgrade the surface stations, and to finish replacement of the rolling stock. The branch service originally having 15 minute intervals now has 6 min which makes 1:1 ratio of trains traveling from Aleksandrovsky Sad.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208941", "title": "Hydrogen selenide", "text": "Hydrogen selenide\n\nHydrogen selenide is an inorganic compound with the formula HSe. This hydrogen chalcogenide is the simplest and most commonly encountered hydride of selenium. HSe is a colorless, flammable gas under standard conditions. It is the most toxic selenium compound with an exposure limit of 0.05 ppm over an 8-hour period. Even at extremely low concentrations, this compound has a very irritating smell resembling that of decayed horseradish or 'leaking gas', but smells of rotten eggs at higher concentrations.\n\nHSe adopts a bent structure with a H−Se−H bond angle of 91°. Consistent with this structure, three IR-active vibrational bands are observed: 2358, 2345, and 1034 cm.\n\nThe properties of HS and HSe are similar, although the selenide is more acidic with p\"K\" = 3.89, and the second p\"K\" = 15.05 ± 0.02 at 25 °C. Reflecting its acidity, HSe is soluble in water.\n\nIndustrially, it is produced by treating elemental selenium at T > 300 °C with hydrogen gas. A number of routes to HSe have been reported, which are suitable for both large and small scale preparations. In the laboratory, HSe is usually prepared by the action of water on AlSe, concomitant with formation of hydrated alumina. A related reaction involves the acid hydrolysis of FeSe.\nHSe can also be prepared by means of different methods based on the \"in situ\" generation in aqueous solution using boron hydride, Marsh test and Devarda's alloy. According to the Sonoda method, HSe is generated from the reaction of HO and CO on Se in the presence of EtN. HSe can be purchased in cylinders.\n\nElemental selenium can be recovered from HSe through a reaction with aqueous sulfur dioxide (SO).\nIts decomposition is used to prepare the highly pure element.\n\nHSe is commonly used in the synthesis of Se-containing compounds. It adds across alkenes. Illustrative is the synthesis of selenoureas from cyanamides.\n\nHSe gas is used to dope semiconductors with selenium.\n\nHydrogen selenide is hazardous, being the most toxic selenium compound and far more toxic than its congener hydrogen sulfide. The threshold limit value is 0.05 ppm. The gas acts as an irritant at concentrations higher than 0.3 ppm, which is the main warning sign of exposure; below 1 ppm, this is \"insufficient to prevent exposure\", while at 1.5 ppm the irritation is \"intolerable\". Exposure at high concentrations, even for less than a minute, causes the gas to attack the eyes and mucous membranes; this causes cold-like symptoms for at least a few days afterwards. In Germany, the limit in drinking water is 0.008 mg/L, and the US EPA recommends a maximum contamination of 0.01 mg/L.\n\nDespite being highly toxic, no human fatalities have yet been reported. It is suspected that this is due to the gas' tendency to oxidise to form red selenium in mucous membranes; elemental selenium is less toxic than selenides are.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208945", "title": "Sindhi", "text": "Sindhi\n\nSindhi may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208947", "title": "Conduct unbecoming", "text": "Conduct unbecoming\n\nConduct unbecoming an officer and a gentleman (or conduct unbecoming for short) is an offense that is subject to court martial in the armed forces of some nations.\n\nThe phrase was used as a charge in courts martial of the British Armed Forces in the 18th and early 19th centuries, although it was not defined as a specific offence in the Articles of War. For instance, in 1813, Colonel Sir J Eamer was brought before a court martial \"For behaving in a scandalous, infamous manner, such as is unbecoming the character of an officer and a gentleman, towards Captain B V Symes of the same regiment...\" The charge seems to have been first codified under the British Naval Discipline Act of 10 August 1860, which says; \"Article 24: Every Officer subject to this Act who shall be guilty of Cruelty, or of any scandalous or fraudulent Conduct, shall be dismissed with Disgrace from Her Majesty's Service; and every Officer subject to this Act who shall be guilty of any other Conduct unbecoming the Character of an Officer shall be dismissed, with or without Disgrace, from Her Majesty's Service.\"\n\nThe offense is defined in the punitive code, Article 133, of the United States Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ), enacted at .\n\nThe elements are:\n\nHere \"officer\" is understood to include commissioned officers, cadets, and midshipmen of both sexes, hence the more common term \"conduct unbecoming\". A gentleman is understood to have a duty to avoid dishonest acts, displays of indecency, lawlessness, dealing unfairly, indecorum, injustice, or acts of cruelty.\n\n"}
{"id": "2208954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208954", "title": "Faith Hope Love", "text": "Faith Hope Love\n\nFaith Hope Love is the third studio album by the American rock band King's X.\n\n\"Six Broken Soldiers\" is the first King's X song to feature drummer Jerry Gaskill on lead vocals.\n\n\n\n\"Faith, Hope, Love\" proved to be King's X's most commercially successful album, nearly reaching gold status.\n\nThe album was listed at #52 in the 2001 book, \"\".\n\nSingles - Billboard (North America)\n"}
{"id": "2208956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208956", "title": "Percy Kirke", "text": "Percy Kirke\n\nLieutenant General Percy Kirke (c. 1646 – 31 October 1691), English soldier, was the son of George Kirke, a court official to Charles I and Charles II.\n\nIn 1666 Kirke obtained his first Army commission in Lord Admiral's regiment, and subsequently served in the Blues. In 1673 he was with Monmouth at Maastricht during the Franco-Dutch War and was present during two campaigns with Turenne on the Rhine. In 1680 he was promoted Lieutenant-Colonel, and soon afterwards Colonel of the 2nd Tangier Regiment (afterwards the King's Own Royal Lancaster Regiment). In 1682 he became Governor of Tangier and colonel of the Tangier Regiment (afterwards the Queens Royal West Surrey Regiment).\n\nIn the view of the historian Thomas Babington Macaulay, he was \"a military adventurer whose vices had been developed by the worst of all schools, Tangier... Within the ramparts of his fortress he was a despotic prince. The only check on his tyranny was the fear of being called to account by a distant and a careless government. He might therefore safely proceed to the most audacious excesses of rapacity, licentiousness, and cruelty. He lived with boundless dissoluteness, and procured by extortion the means of indulgence.\"\n\nKirke commanded his regiment at the Battle of Sedgemoor in July 1685 during the Monmouth Rebellion and then ruthlessly hunted down the fugitives after the battle.\n\nBrigadier Kirke took a notable part in the Glorious Revolution three years later, and William III promoted him. He commanded at the relief of Derry, breaking the Jacobite Irish Army's siege of the city. Following the Battle of the Boyne on 1 July 1690, he oversaw the Capture of Waterford, Ireland's second largest settlement at the time, on 25 July 1690. He took part in his last campaign in Flanders in 1691.\n\nHe was appointed a Groom of the Bedchamber to King William from 1689 to his death. He also briefly served as MP for West Looe as a Tory in 1689–90.\n\nHe died, with the rank of Lieutenant General, at Brussels on 31 October 1691. His eldest son, Lieutenant General Percy Kirke (1684–1741), was also colonel of the Lambs.\n"}
{"id": "2208959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208959", "title": "George Harris", "text": "George Harris\n\nGeorge Harris may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208960", "title": "Matthew White Ridley, 4th Viscount Ridley", "text": "Matthew White Ridley, 4th Viscount Ridley\n\nMatthew White Ridley, 4th Viscount Ridley (29 July 1925 – 22 March 2012), was a British nobleman. He notably served as Lord Steward of the Household from 1989 to 2001.\n\nRidley was the son of Matthew White Ridley, 3rd Viscount Ridley, and Ursula Lutyens, daughter of Sir Edwin Lutyens. His younger brother Nicholas Ridley, Baron Ridley of Liddesdale, was a prominent Conservative Party politician who served as a government minister for nearly all of Margaret Thatcher's years as Prime Minister. \n\nMatthew Ridley was educated at Eton College and spent several months studying agriculture at King’s College, University of Durham (now Newcastle University). The Second World War interrupted his education and he joined the Coldstream Guards, serving in Normandy and Germany in 1944-45. He then studied at Oxford, graduating with a degree in Agriculture from Balliol College in 1948.\n\nHe then served as an \"aide-de-camp\" to Sir Evelyn Baring, then Governor of Kenya. During this time he furthered his interest in nature and science. In 1955, Ridley and zoologist Lord Richard Percy spent four months on an uninhabited island in the Seychelles studying the plight of the dwindling sooty tern.\n\nLater he joined the Territorial Army, reaching the rank of Brevet Colonel in the Northumberland Hussars: he became Honorary Colonel of that unit in 1979.\n\nRidley succeeded his father in the viscountcy in 1964. He was Chairman of Northumberland County Council from 1967 to 1979. He chaired several companies and societies, before serving as Chancellor of the University of Newcastle from 1988 to 1999, as Lord Lieutenant of Northumberland from 1984 to 2000, and as Lord Steward of the Household from 1989 to 2001. He was succeeded by the Duke of Abercorn as Lord Steward in 2001.\n\nHe was made a Knight Companion of the Order of the Garter in 1992 and appointed a Knight Grand Cross of the Royal Victorian Order in 1994. He retired in 1999 and did not stand for election as a hereditary peer after the House of Lords Act.\n\nRidley was married on 3 January 1953 to Lady Anne Katharine Gabrielle Lumley (born 16 November 1928, died 2006), daughter of Lawrence Lumley, 11th Earl of Scarbrough. They had four children together:\n\n\nRidley died on 22 March 2012 and was succeeded in the viscountcy by his only son.\n"}
{"id": "2208961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208961", "title": "Gotcha! (quartet)", "text": "Gotcha! (quartet)\n\nGotcha! is a barbershop quartet formed in 1996 by four members of the Masters of Harmony chorus.\n\n\"Gotcha!\" became the international champions of the Barbershop Harmony Society in 2004 after six previous attempts at the title.\n\nBaritone Alan Gordon became a member of SPEBSQSA (now BHS) when he was 10 years old. He has achieved much in the barbershop world, including becoming a singing judge. In addition to having been assistant director of the Masters of Harmony Chorus and their baritone section leader, he directed the Verdugo Hills Chorus at their Sweet Adelines International competition. He is a Master Director in SAI.\n\nBass Jim Kline had previously achieved many non-gold medals with SPEBSQSA, most of them with the 139th Street Quartet, which was frequently featured on television—including appearances on \"Night Court\" and \"Cheers\".\n\nLead Chris Vaughn is a lead section leader for the Denver Mile High Chorus.\n\nTenor Garry Texiera would later direct the Indianapolis-based Circle City Sound Chorus.\n\nThe original bass of the quartet was Scott Wilson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208970", "title": "Intensity interferometer", "text": "Intensity interferometer\n\nAn intensity interferometer is the name given to devices that use the Hanbury Brown and Twiss effect. In astronomy, the most common use of such an astronomical interferometer is to determine the apparent angular diameter of a radio source or star. If the distance to the object can then be determined by parallax or some other method, the physical diameter of the star can then be inferred. An example of an optical intensity interferometer is the Narrabri Stellar Intensity Interferometer. In quantum optics, some devices which take advantage of correlation and anti-correlation effects in beams of photons might be said to be intensity interferometers, although the term is usually reserved for observatories.\n\nAn intensity interferometer is built from two light detectors, typically either radio antenna or optical telescopes with photomultiplier tubes (PMTs), separated by some distance, called the baseline. Both detectors are pointed at the same astronomical source, and intensity measurements are then transmitted to a central correlator facility. A major advantage of intensity interferometers is that only the measured intensity observed by each detector must be sent to the central correlator facility, rather than the amplitude and phase of the signal. The intensity interferometer measures interferometric visibilities like all other astronomical interferometers. These measurements can be used to calculate the diameter and limb darkening coefficients of stars, but with intensity interferometers aperture synthesis images cannot be produced as the visibility phase information is not preserved by an intensity interferometer.\n"}
{"id": "2208981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208981", "title": "Freeway Series", "text": "Freeway Series\n\nThe Freeway Series is a Major League Baseball (MLB) interleague rivalry played between the Los Angeles Angels and the Los Angeles Dodgers. The Angels are members of the American League (AL) West division, and the Dodgers are members of the National League (NL) West division. The series takes its name from the massive freeway system in the greater Los Angeles metropolitan area, the home of both teams; one could travel from one team's stadium to the other simply by driving along Interstate 5. The term is akin to \"Subway Series\" which refers to meetings between New York City baseball teams. The term \"\"Freeway Series\"\" also inspired the official name of the region's NHL rivalry between the Los Angeles Kings and the Anaheim Ducks: the \"Freeway Face-Off\".\n\nThe rise of Southern California as a major region of the United States brought about a significant economic rivalry between neighboring Los Angeles and Orange counties.\n\nTo many living outside of Southern California, the entire region is often simply referred to as \"LA\", associating Los Angeles and Orange counties with the same stereotypes and preconceptions. However, the two counties differ sharply in political ideology, socioeconomic status, and demographics. Los Angeles County is more liberal, and is represented by a more ethnically diverse population, while Orange County was known to be one of the most conservative areas in the state. This divide led to the Los Angeles/Orange county line being colloquially referred to as the Orange Curtain. This can be somewhat misleading, though, because the older, more urban, cities of northern and central Orange County (Anaheim, Santa Ana, Garden Grove, Buena Park, etc.) are much more in tune with Los Angeles County cities than their southern Orange County counterparts. These older Orange County cities are much less homogeneous than the south, and the income levels and demographics represent this. In recent years though, coinciding with the postseason success of the Dodgers and the growing postseason drought for the Angels, gameday experiences for each team have drastically changed (with a Dodgers game costing much more money to attend versus than of an Angels game) because of this the economic situations of each fanbase have experienced a sort of role reversal. Another contributing factor of the changing fanbases of both franchises is the ownership of the Angels by that of Arte Moreno (the first Mexican-American to own a major sports team in the United States) which has led to a significant growth of its Hispanic and Latino American fanbase. This has even become a contributing factor toward players such as Anthony Rendon choosing to sign with the Angels over that of the Dodgers.\n\nThe first exhibition game between the two clubs (won by the Angels) was played in 1962 in Palm Springs, at the time the spring training home of the Angels. The first pre-season series was played at Dodger Stadium, at the time the home ballpark of both teams April 6–7, 1963. The Angels won both of the two games played. After the Angels added \"Los Angeles\" to their official name in 2005, the rivalry took on renewed interest, as the series took on a more intracity atmosphere.\n\nThroughout the 2005 season, Dodger Stadium listed the Angels as \"ANA\" on its out-of-town scoreboard and team schedules, as it was prior to Angels' name change. However, the Dodgers now post \"LAA\" on both their scoreboard and schedules. Dodger broadcaster Vin Scully refers to the team as just the Angels when mentioning them on the air. Dodgers tickets still refer to the Angels as the \"Anaheim Angels.\" As of the 2011 season, however, the Angels' out-of-town scoreboard in right field still lists the Dodgers by their pre-2005 \"LA\" abbreviation instead of \"LAD\". The Angels' name change was largely opposed by the Dodgers organization, city and county of Los Angeles, Anaheim, every other city in Orange County, and fans on both sides. The prevailing argument was that the Angels did not play within Los Angeles county limits, and that adding LA to the name inaccurately represented the location and background of the team's fans. The Angels' ownership countered that bringing the Los Angeles name to the American League was beneficial to the entire region and organization. Furthermore, the Census Bureau's definition of Greater Los Angeles includes Orange County in its definition, and the Angels have always used Los Angeles stations to broadcast their TV and radio games. The adding of the \"Los Angeles\" to the Angels name still causes some resentment in the minds of both Angel and Dodger fans today.\n\nRegular- and post-season games between the two teams take place at either Angel Stadium of Anaheim or Dodger Stadium. The two stadiums are located approximately apart.\n\nAt one point, both teams were owned by major media conglomerates: the Angels had been owned by the Walt Disney Company, and the Dodgers were owned by News Corporation (each company owned one of the MLB broadcast partners, with News Corporation changing its name to 21st Century Fox in 2013, and subsequently being purchased by the Walt Disney Company in 2019). Both teams have been sold in recent years.\n\nDuring the 2002 World Series, there was a moment of peace in the rivalry as a result of the nightmares the Dodgers and their fans were facing because the Angels played the San Francisco Giants, the fierce in-state rivals of the Dodgers. \"The Los Angeles Times\" called the series \"the Dodgers' 'Nightmare Series.'\" The \"New York Post\" called it \"the worst-scenario World Series for the Dodgers.\" \"The San Francisco Chronicle\" called the series \"a Dodger fan's worst nightmare.\" The Dodgers and their fans, including Chairman Bob Daly and former manager Tommy Lasorda, rooted for the eventual champions and attended their games in Anaheim. Lasorda was at Game 2 and stood behind the batting cage and said that he's a big fan of Angels manager Mike Scioscia. Daly attended Game 7 and sat near the Angels dugout, as a fan of late Angels owner Gene Autry. This series was the Angels first championship, while the Dodgers' last title came in the 1988 World Series and appearance was 2018.\n\nHistory was made in when two MVPs were chosen from the same metropolitan area with the Angels outfielder Mike Trout winning the American League MVP and Dodger pitcher Clayton Kershaw winning National League MVP for the year. This occurred again in when the Angels' Trout and Dodgers' Cody Bellinger won their league's respective MVP awards.\n\nAs of , the two sides have never met in the postseason. To meet in the postseason would require that they both advance to the World Series in the same year. To date, the two teams have made the playoffs in the same year four times: 2004, 2008, 2009, and 2014. In 2004, both teams lost in their respective Division Series, whereas in 2008 the Angels lost to the Boston Red Sox, 3–1 in the Division Series while the Dodgers swept the Chicago Cubs 3–0 and lost to the eventual champion Philadelphia Phillies 4–1 in the National League Championship Series. In 2009, both teams advanced to their respective League Championship Series. The Angels lost the ALCS 4–2 to the eventual champion New York Yankees, while the Dodgers lost the NLCS to the Phillies, 4–1. The Angels' only World Series win and appearance came in , while the Dodgers' last win came in their championship season of , with their latest appearance being in .\n\nIn 2014, both teams finished first in their respective divisions. However, the Angels were swept, 3–0, by the Kansas City Royals in the ALDS, while the Dodgers lost 3–1 to the St. Louis Cardinals in the NLDS.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2208983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208983", "title": "BBVA USA", "text": "BBVA USA\n\n</noinclude>\nBBVA USA (formerly BBVA Compass) is a bank holding company headquartered in Birmingham, Alabama. It has been a subsidiary of the Spanish multinational Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria since 2007 and operates chiefly in Alabama, Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, New Mexico, and Texas.\n\nThe company is the 30th largest bank in the United States.\n\nBBVA USA holds naming rights to BBVA Stadium, a soccer venue in Houston, Texas. From 2011 to 2014, BBVA USA was the title sponsor of the Birmingham Bowl (then called the BBVA Compass Bowl), a college football bowl game played annually in Birmingham.\n\nThe company was founded on March 2, 1964 as the Central Bank and Trust Company by Harry B. Brock Jr., Schuyler Baker and Hugh Daniel with $1 million of capital. Other founding directors included Frank L. Hardy, John R. Israel, Wendell H. Taylor and Stewart Welch. \n\nSoon thereafter, Wally Nall, John Evins, Inos Heard, and Tom Jernigan joined the board.\n\nIn 1967, the company moved into a new 15-story new headquarters building on 20th Street South. \n\nIn 1969, Central made a hostile takeover bid for Decatur's State National Bank, the only bank that could open branches across county lines. The bid was supported by Hugh Agricola and other shareholders of the First National Bank of Gadsden, which had been bought by State National. It was financed by a $10 million line of credit from the Bank of Virginia, which was pioneering its own statewide banking company. By July, Central was able to assemble a voting trust representing about a third of State National's shares in advance of a public offering of $70 per share. The City National Bank of Birmingham, which had also been planning a merger, countered with $80 per share. Central instructed their brokers to buy as many shares as they could up to $85 and ended with enough shares to control State National's board.\n\nIn response, Alabama's other major banks filed several court actions in an attempt to block the merger. One action, brought in Federal Court, did succeed with blocking it, on the technicality that Alabama's banking laws, under which the state-chartered bank operated, were incompatible on a few points with Federal banking laws that governed the national banks in the area of mergers. While this finding was being appealed, banking lobbyists were pushing for new legislation that would prevent the merged company from being able to operate in more than one county. Brock and Central Bank's other officers personally lobbied against the bill, and though it would have passed easily, died in committee without reaching the floor for a vote.\n\nThe result of the failed bill was that statewide bank holding companies were recognized as a legal possibility for the first time, and the other major banks moved quickly to organize while Central was waiting for a decision on their appeal. Another group, led by Frank Plummer, Norman Pless, and Bob Lowery, was able to form Alabama's first statewide holding company while Central's appeal was pending. This group even stole Brock's intended name for Central's proposed holding company, First Alabama Bancshares–forerunner of Regions Financial Corporation. Central did win their appeal and reorganized as the Central and State National Corporation, which was soon renamed Central Bancshares of the South. In 1973 this new company issued a new stock offering to fuel the growth of the statewide network. In 1979, the bank opened a large branch office at 1560 Montgomery Highway in Hoover.\n\nIn 1981, Central and a coalition of other bank holding companies successfully lobbied for the Bank Merger Act, allowing statewide bank branching under a single banking company. For the next two years, Central Bancshares of the South was the largest bank holding company in Alabama.\n\nThe bank began pursuing interstate banking in the legislature, and was successful, again with the help of other big banks, in passing enabling legislation that took effect in 1986. The bank's first acquisition out of state was the failing First National Bank of Crosby, Texas in February 1987. Central Bancshares became the first bank in Alabama to own a bank in another state and the first out-of-state bank to own a bank in Texas.\n\nD. Paul Jones took over the CEO position from Brock in 1991. Jones blocked a sale of the bank to First Union that was favored by Brock. Soon afterward, the bank changed its name to Compass Bancshares to reflect its expansion outside the South.\n\nIn 1995 Harry Brock tries, unsuccessfully, to sell Compass Bancshares to First Union Corp. for $ 1 billion. \n\nDuring Jone's tenure, Compass Bancshares expanded into Florida and the west with the acquisitions of banks in Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico. \n\nOn September 7, 2007, Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria (BBVA), then second largest bank in Spain, acquired the company. In late 2008, Compass modified its name to BBVA Compass.\n\nIn January 2008, Gary Hegel became CEO of the company.\n\nIn March 2008, BBVA announced that it received Federal approval to integrate its four subsidiary banks—State National, Texas State Bank, Laredo National Bank and Compass Bank—into a single organization (Citation), which would become known as BBVA Compass. \n\nIn December 2008, Manolo Sanchez became CEO of the company.\n\nOn August 21, 2009, in a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation-supervised transaction, BBVA Compass acquired the deposits and other core assets of Guaranty Bank of Austin, Texas, which suffered from bank failure. The deal gave BBVA Compass a presence in California and expanded an existing presence in Texas.\n\nIn 2013, BBVA further expanded its regional presence with the opening of BBVA Compass Plaza, a 312,000 square foot office building in Houston.\nIn 2009, the bank launched the BBVA Compass ClearPoints Card, a rewards card with an associated mobile app that notably allows for real-time, in-person redemption of rewards points.\n\nIn 2010, Garcia Meyer-Dohner stepped down as the bank's chairman and U.S. country manager for BBVA. BBVA Compass president and CEO Manolo Sánchez was appointed to also assume Garcia Meyer-Dohner's role as the U.S. country manager for BBVA. Board member Lawrence R. Uhlick was chosen to serve as BBVA Compass chairman. \n\nIn April 2011, BBVA Compass announced the construction of a new-eco-efficient corporate office building in Houston's Galleria area, which would serve as BBVA Compass Bancshares, Inc. headquarters.\n\nBBVA Compass was one of over 30 banks accused of improperly manipulating customers’ checking account transactions to generate excess overdraft fees by posting them in highest-to-lowest dollar amount instead of in chronological order. In July 2012, the bank agreed to pay $11.5 million to settle the lawsuit.\n\nIn April 2014, BBVA USA opened its renovated Development Center.\n\nIn 2014, BBVA Compass disclosed that the results of its periodic examination for compliance with the Community Reinvestment Act (CRA) would probably restrict its ability to engage in additional mergers and acquisitions until after its next scheduled examination. Since that disclosure, BBVA Compass has announced several actions to address the issues of community reinvestment, including committing $11 billion to community development lending, and retaining additional staff at the regional and national level to manage community development investment.\n\nIn 2015, Money Magazine recognized BBVA USA for the best mobile banking app of the year.\n\nIn December 2016, Onur Genç became CEO of the company. Manolo Sánchez became non-executive chairman. In 2017, Sánchez retired. \n\nIn December 2018, Javier Rodríguez Soler became CEO of BBVA Compass.\n\nIn June 2019, BBVA unifies its brand worldwide and BBVA Compass is renamed BBVA USA. \n\nIn October 2016, BBVA USA announced its Opportunity Fellows Program, an initiative to train leaders of Community Development Financial Institutions (CDFIs), organizations focused on helping in low-income communities. In March 2017, the program welcomed its inaugural class. \n\nIn 2017, BBVA Momentum, BBVA's global accelerator program for social entrepreneurs landed in the U.S., first in Texas. The program then expanded across BBVA USA's seven-state footprint in 2018. For the first two installments of the program in the U.S., a total of $205,000 in seed money was awarded and divided among the six winning pitches. In 2019, the program was supported with $175,000 in seed funding divided among the top three final pitches.\n\nIn 2018, BBVA USA launched a four-month pilot of its financial education program. The effort involved teaming with 28 nonprofits in 19 markets from across the bank's footprint to build a comprehensive network of financial education offerings for low- to moderate-income individuals. In 2019, the bank fully launched, expanding to 12 additional markets with a goal of educating 10,000 low- to moderate-income adults. \n\nIn May 2018, the Museum of Fine Arts - Houston (MFAH) revealed the Glassell School of Art at its new Susan and Fayez S. Sarofim Campus. As the leading corporate donor, BBVA USA contributed $8 million to the visual arts school, representing the bank's largest donation ever to any single organization. The BBVA Roof Garden, positioned on the top of the building, is named in honor of the bank's donation. \n\nIn September 2019, BBVA USA became a founding signatory of the United Nations Principles for Responsible Banking, joining 130 banks worldwide committed to aligning their business with the United Nations’ 17 Sustainable Development Goals. \n\nIn 2018, for the second consecutive year, BBVA USA received “Gold level recognition” from the American Heart Association, earning a spot on its annual Workplace Achievement Index.    \n\nIn 2019, BBVA USA earned a perfect score on Diversity Inc's Top 50 Companies for Diversity 2019 list, the bank's second recognition since 2017.    \n\nIn 2019, for the second consecutive year, BBVA USA also earned a perfect score on the Human Rights Campaign Foundation's Corporate Equality Index, an annual LGBTQ workplace equality scorecard. \n"}
{"id": "2208994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208994", "title": "Artie Simek", "text": "Artie Simek\n\nArthur \"Artie\" Simek, sometimes credited as Art Simek (; January 6, 1916 - February 20, 1975), was an American calligrapher best known as a letterer for Marvel Comics during the period fans and historians call the Silver Age of Comic Books. Along with letterer Sam Rosen, Simek lettered and helped design logos for virtually all Marvel Comics published during the 1960s. Simek's work included such landmarks as \"The Fantastic Four\" #1 (Nov. 1961) and Spider-Man's debut in \"Amazing Fantasy\" #15 (Aug. 1962).\n\nArtie Simek began his comics career in the 1940s, although credits are hard to determine, as comic-book letterers did not begin to routinely receive published credit until the early 1960s. Inker Joe Giella — who for two years beginning circa 1946 worked on staff at Marvel Comics 1940s predecessor, Timely Comics — recalled \"Artie Simek was on staff on Timely. He lives in Queens and he also used to work out of his bedroom; he had a little drawing table in there. I used to drive to his home and pick up the jobs he'd lettered, then take them home and work on them. Fred Eng lettered there, too\".\n\nSimek's first confirmed credits are the 12-page lead story \"The Three Super-Sleepers\", a Batman-Superman team-up in DC Comics' \"World's Finest Comics\" #91 (Dec. 1957), and, for the same company, the eight-page backup story \"Batman's Roman Holiday\", in \"Batman\" #112 (Dec. 1957). He went on to letter issues of such other DC titles as \"Showcase\" and \"House of Secrets\".\n\nBeginning with his first confirmed Marvel Comics credits, three Kid Colt stories totaling 18 pages in the Western \"Kid Colt, Outlaw\" #83 (March 1959), Simek became, with Sam Rosen, one of Marvel's two primary letterers, hand-drawing the word balloons and sound effects for virtually every comic produced by the company, with Simek lettering most early issues of the flagship series \"Fantastic Four\".\n\nSimek's final work was lettering pages 2–8 and 10 of the 32-page superhero story \"Eelar Moves in Mysterious Ways\" in \"Giant-Size Defenders\" #5 (July 1975), which an editorial note on the letters page describes as the last Simek completed before his death while working on the issue.\n\nFuture Comic Book Hall of Famer Gene Colan, a Marvel mainstay from 1946 on, described Simek as \"a real Norman Rockwell character. Artie Simek could play the spoons. He'd have two spoons in his hand, and he would flip them around, they would bop up against each other, and before you knew it, there was a melody there. He was wonderful\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2208996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2208996", "title": "George Huang (Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit)", "text": "George Huang (Law &amp; Order: Special Victims Unit)\n\nSpecial Agent George Huang is a fictional character on the TV drama \"\". He is portrayed by BD Wong.\n\nDr. George Huang is introduced in the season 2 episode \"\". He is an FBI agent who is originally loaned to Manhattan SVU, and later becomes their resident forensic psychiatrist and criminal profiler. He provides them with expert analysis of crime scenes and suspects. His vast knowledge of forensic psychology and psychopathology lends him a preternatural ability to understand, empathize with, and predict the actions of suspects as well as victims. He also has extensive knowledge in the fields of theology, ethnology, and forensics, and speaks fluent Chinese.\n\nDespite a rocky start with the SVU detectives, they come to trust Huang. However, his opinion is not always appreciated. He sometimes agrees with the diagnoses of mental illness provided by defense attorneys and their psychiatrists, making it harder for the Assistant DAs who work with the squad to prosecute criminals.\n\nLike the detectives, however, Huang has empathy first and foremost with victims of sexual assault, particularly children. He is usually very calm, soft-spoken, and even-tempered, except in a few notable occasions (see below). As a psychiatrist, he sometimes offers his expertise to the detectives themselves, by helping them with any emotional problems they may have. One notable example is the season 6 episode \"\". After the detectives see that several children have been murdered in a cult leader's home, Huang sits down with each of the detectives individually to talk them through how they are feeling.\n\nEarly in his career as a psychiatrist, Huang worked as a counselor for sex offenders, motivated by a genuine belief that he could rehabilitate them. He quit after a few years, however, frustrated by his patients' unwillingness to truly participate in the therapy. This is also why he went from helping sex offenders to putting them in prison.\n\nHuang is SVU's resident psychiatrist from seasons 3 through 12. He left the main cast after the season 12 episode \"Bombshell\" and no reason was originally given for his departure. However, Huang returns to aid an SVU investigation in the season 13 episode \"Father Dearest\"; he facetiously comments that his new assignment in Oklahoma City is \"heaven\" for a single, gay, Chinese-American man who is opposed to the death penalty.\n\nHuang returns to New York in the episode \"Born Psychopath\", and helps the SVU detectives with a case involving a 10-year-old boy exhibiting antisocial behavior. He diagnoses the boy with psychopathy and makes arrangements to get him into a treatment facility. He complains about having to return to Oklahoma near the end of the episode. He also returns in the season 15 episode \"Thought Criminal\" to evaluate a suspect who has sexual fantasies about torturing and killing children.\n\nHuang does not appear in season 16, but returns in the season 17 episode \"Depravity Standard\", where he reveals that he took early retirement from the FBI and is now doing consultation work in New York. He testifies in court for the defense of child abductor Lewis Hoda (Tom Sizemore). In doing so, he goes face to face with ADA Rafael Barba (Raúl Esparza) and challenges Lieutenant Olivia Benson's (Mariska Hargitay) interrogation tactics, straining their friendship.\n\nIn the episode \"\" (#58), Huang is attacked by a serial killer while he and Detective Elliot Stabler (Christopher Meloni) try to get him to confess to a murder.\n\nIn the 2009 episode \"\" (#217), he is attacked in the interrogation room by a murder suspect who had pica, which indirectly caused the suspect to be violent due to consumption of lead-based paint. His diagnosis of the suspect as being brain-damaged due to lead poisoning also motivated ADA Alexandra Cabot (Stephanie March) to seek a more lenient sentence.\n\nIn the episode \"Crush\" (#222), he makes his first on-air arrest as an FBI agent after participating in a sting with the SVU squad against a judge who had committed both state and federal offenses.\n\nIn the 2009 episode \"\", he mentions that he is gay after becoming involved in a case in which the leader of a pedophile advocacy group argues that pedophilia is an innate sexual orientation; he says that the implied comparison between homosexuality and pedophilia offends him as a gay man.\n\nIn the 2009 episode \"Users\", he illegally administers ibogaine to treat a heroin addict. When confronted with possible consequences, he says that his work as a physician is more important to him than his own welfare. Afterward, he reports himself to the New York Department of Health, his license to practice medicine is suspended for 30 days, and he states that it was worth it.\n"}
{"id": "2209007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209007", "title": "Jive Talkin'", "text": "Jive Talkin'\n\n\"Jive Talkin\" is a song by the Bee Gees, released as a single in May 1975 by RSO Records. This was the lead single from the album \"Main Course\" (as well as a song on the 1977 \"Saturday Night Fever\" soundtrack) and hit number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100; it also reached the top-five on the UK Singles Chart in the middle of 1975. Largely recognised as the group's \"comeback\" song, it was their first US top-10 hit since \"How Can You Mend a Broken Heart\" (1971).\n\nThe song was originally called \"Drive Talking\" in its early stage. The song's rhythm was modelled after the sound their car made crossing the Julia Tuttle Causeway each day from Biscayne Bay to Criteria Studios in Miami.\n\nRecording for \"Jive Talkin took place on 30 January and 2 February 1975. The scratchy guitar intro was done by Barry and the funky bass line by Maurice. The pulsing synthesiser bass line, which featured in the final recording, was (along with the pioneering work of Stevie Wonder) one of the earliest uses of \"synth bass\" on a pop recording. It was overdubbed by keyboardist Blue Weaver using a then state-of-the-art ARP 2600, which producer Arif Mardin had brought in for the recording of the \"Main Course\" album. Weaver stated, \"Usually Maurice would play bass guitar, but he was away from the studio that night. And when Maurice came back, we let him hear it and suggested he re-record the bass line on his bass guitar\". \"I really liked the synth bass lines\", Maurice said. \"I overdubbed certain sections to add bass extra emphasis\".\n\n\"Jive Talkin was also influenced by \"You're the One\" (written by Sly Stone) by Little Sister.\n\nAccording to Maurice, while hearing this rhythmic sound, \"Barry didn't notice that he's going 'Ji-Ji Jive Talkin\", thinking of the dance, 'You dance with your eyes'...that's all he had...exactly 35 mph...that's what we got.\" He goes on to say, \"We played it to [producer] Arif [Mardin], and he went 'Do you know what \"Jive Talkin means?' And we said 'Well yeah, it's, ya know, you're dancing.' He says 'NO...it's a black expression for bullshitting.' And we went 'Oh, Really?!? Jive talkin', you're telling me lies...' and changed it.\" Maurice goes on to describe how Arif gave them \"the groove, the tempo, everything.\" Robin Gibb then goes on to mention that, because they were English, they were less self-conscious about going into the \"no-go areas\", referring to musical styles that were more black in styles, etc. He then said, \"We didn't think that there was any 'no go' areas, it's music!\" Barry's guitar strumming has a smoother version of Kool and the Gang's signature chicka-chicka and funky Nassau version of KC and the Sunshine Band's Caribbean strumming. The song's rhythm riff perhaps from \"Shirley & Company's \"Shame, Shame, Shame\", with a prominent use of the Bo Diddley beat.\n\n\"Jive Talkin is a stuttering song like the Who's \"My Generation\", David Bowie's \"Changes\", Elton John's \"Bennie and the Jets\" and Bob Seger's \"Katmandu\".\n\nAfter hearing \"Jive Talkin, Lindsey Buckingham of Fleetwood Mac, and co-producer Richard Dashut built up the song \"Second Hand News\" (released on the band's \"Rumours\" in 1977) with four audio tracks of electric guitar and the use of chair percussion to evoke Celtic rock.\n\nUpon its release to radio stations, the single was delivered in a plain white cover, with no immediate indication of what the song's name was or who sang it. The DJs would only find out what the song was and who played it when it was placed on the turntable; RSO did provide the song with a label on the record itself. It was the second time in the band's career that this strategy had been employed to get airplay for their music, after a similar tactic had popularised their debut US single \"New York Mining Disaster 1941\" in 1967. The song approximates the synthesised propulsion of Stevie Wonder's \"Superstition\".\n\nThe original studio version was included on the \"Saturday Night Fever\" soundtrack, as it was used in a scene that was cut from the final film. Later pressings of the album used the live version of \"Jive Talkin' \" from the Bee Gees 1977 album, \"Here at Last... Bee Gees... Live\", due to contractual distribution changes. The CD version restores the use of the studio version.\n\nCredits adapted from the album \"Main Course\".\n\nIn 1987, \"Jive Talkin'\" was covered by Boogie Box High, a musical project of Andros Georgiou's that featured collaborators such as his cousin George Michael and Haircut One Hundred's Nick Heyward. Michael sang lead on \"Jive Talkin',\" although his vocals were uncredited.\n\n7\" single\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209014", "title": "Sam Rosen (comics)", "text": "Sam Rosen (comics)\n\nSam Rosen (died 1992), often credited as S. Rosen, was an American calligrapher best known as a letterer for Marvel Comics during the period fans and historians call the Silver Age of Comic Books. Along with letterer Artie Simek, Rosen lettered and helped design logos for virtually all Marvel Comics published during the 1960s. Rosen also moonlighted for other companies during this time: he was the (uncredited) letterer for the 1965-66 Archie Comics series \"The Mighty Crusaders\".\n\nSam Rosen began his career as a comic book letterer in New York City in 1940, working on writer-artist Will Eisner's \"The Spirit\", the seven-page lead feature in a comic-book style Sunday supplement syndicated to newspapers. During this period, he also worked for Fox Comics and Benjamin W. Sangor studio, a comic book packager.\n\nCredits for Rosen are hard to determine, as comic-book letterers did not begin to routinely receive published credit until the early 1960s. Beginning with his first confirmed Marvel Comics credit, the three-page recap \"The Origin of the Hulk\" in \"The Incredible Hulk\" #3 (Sept. 1962), Rosen became, with Artie Simek and, later, Rosen's brother Joe Rosen, one of Marvel's primary letterers, hand-drawing the word balloons and sound effects for virtually every comic produced by the company, including such flagship titles as \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" and \"Fantastic Four\".\n\nIn addition to his work for Marvel during the decade of the 1960s, Rosen worked extensively during that period as a letterer for Archie Comics.\n\nRosen's last known credited comics work to appear is the 20-page story \"One Into Two Won't Go\" in \"Captain America\" #156 (Dec. 1972), which he was unable to complete. According to Nick Caputo (as per his post on Marvel Mysteries and Comics Minutiae, Monday, January 23, 2012), he reportedly had a nervous breakdown, and did no more work in the comics field for the last two decades of his life.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209016", "title": "Karl Ludwig von Knebel", "text": "Karl Ludwig von Knebel\n\nKarl Ludwig von Knebel (30 November 1744 – 23 February 1834) was a German poet and translator.\n\nHe was born at the Castle of Wallerstein (near Nördlingen) in Franconia. After having studied law for a short while at Halle, he entered the regiment of the crown prince of Prussia in Potsdam and was attached to it as officer for ten years. Disappointed in his military career, owing to the slowness of promotion, he retired in 1774, and accepting the post of tutor to Prince Frederick Ferdinand Constantin of Saxe-Weimar, accompanied him and his elder brother, the hereditary prince, on a tour to Paris. On this journey he visited Goethe in Frankfurt-on-Main, and introduced him to the hereditary prince, Charles Augustus. This meeting is memorable as being the immediate cause of Goethe's later intimate connection with the Weimar court.\n\nAfter Knebel's return and the premature death of his pupil he was pensioned, receiving the rank of major. In 1798 he married the singer Luise von Rudorf, and retired to Ilmenau; but in 1805 he moved to Jena, where he lived until his death in 1834.\n\nKnebel's \"Sammlung kleiner Gedichte\" (1815), issued anonymously, and \"Distichen\" (1827) contain many graceful sonnets, but it is as a translator that he is best known. His translation of the elegies of Propertius, \"Elegien von Properz\" (1798), and that of Lucretius, \"De Rerum Natura\" (2 vols., 1821) are deservedly praised. Also notable is his translation of Vittorio Alfieri's tragedy \"Saul\".\n\nSince their first acquaintance, Knebel and Goethe were intimate friends, and not the least interesting of Knebel's writings is his correspondence with the eminent poet, \"Briefwechsel mit Goethe\" (ed. G. E. Guhrauer, 2 vols., 1851). Varnhagen von Ense and Theodor Mundt edited his \"Literarischer Nachlass und Briefwechsel\" (“Literary remains and correspondence,” 3 vols., Leipsic, 1835), the latter furnishing a biographical notice.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209018", "title": "Dries Buytaert", "text": "Dries Buytaert\n\nDries Buytaert (born 19 November 1978 in Wilrijk, Antwerp, Belgium) is an open-source software programmer notable as founder and lead developer of the Drupal content management system.\n\nBuytaert defended his PhD dissertation in Computer Science on 27 January 2008, at Ghent University in Belgium.\n\nFrom 1999-2000 he was the maintainer of the \"Linux-WLAN FAQ\".\n\nOn 1 December 2007, Dries announced, together with co-founder Jay Batson the launch of a start-up called Acquia. Acquia is a commercial open-source software company providing products, services, and technical support for Drupal. Acquia tries to be to Drupal what Red Hat has been to Linux. In 2009, Acquia helped re-launch Whitehouse.gov on Drupal. Dries serves as CTO of Acquia.\n\nOn 31 March 2008, Dries launched Mollom, a service dedicated to stopping website spam: \"Mollom's purpose is to dramatically reduce the effort of keeping your site clean and the quality of your content high. Currently, Mollom is a spam-killing one-two punch combination of a state-of-the-art spam filter and CAPTCHA server.\" Over 59,000 websites are protected by the Mollom service, including all of Netlog's messages. Mollom support ended 2 April 2018.\n\nIn 2008, Buytaert was elected \"Young Entrepreneurs of Tech\" by BusinessWeek. He was also named to the MIT Technology Review TR35 as one of the top 35 innovators in the world under the age of 35.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209027", "title": "Betty Blue", "text": "Betty Blue\n\nBetty Blue is a 1986 French erotic psychological drama film. Its original French title is 37° 2 le matin, meaning \"37.2°C in the morning\". The film was directed by Jean-Jacques Beineix and stars Béatrice Dalle and Jean-Hugues Anglade. It is based on the 1985 novel of the same name by Philippe Djian. The film was the eighth highest-grossing film of the year in France.\n\nThe film received both a BAFTA and Oscar nomination for Best Foreign Language Film in 1986.\n\nThe 185-minute director's cut was released on DVD and Blu-ray on 19 November 2019 by The Criterion Collection.\n\nZorg (Jean-Hugues Anglade) is a thirtysomething aspiring writer making a living as a handyman for a community of beach houses in the seaside resort at Gruissan on France's mediterranean coast. He meets 19-year-old Betty (Béatrice Dalle), a volatile and impulsive young woman, and the two begin a passionate affair, living in his borrowed shack on the beach. After a row with him where she tears apart and smashes up the house, she finds the manuscript of his first novel, reads it in one long sitting and decides he is a genius. However, after another argument with his boss, she empties the shack and burns it down. The two decamp to the outskirts of Paris, where her friend Lisa (Consuelo de Haviland) has a small hotel. Betty laboriously types out Zorg's novel and submits it to various publishers. They meet Lisa's new boyfriend Eddy (Gérard Darmon), and the four have many fun times, often fuelled by alcohol. They find work in Eddy's pizzeria but a fight erupts in which Betty stabs a customer with a fork. Zorg tries to slap her back to her senses.\n\nThough Zorg hides the rejection letters Betty finds one and, going to the publisher's house, slashes his face. Zorg induces him to drop charges by threatening him with violence, saying she is the only good thing in his life and she is all he has. Eddy's mother dies and the friends go to the funeral in Marvejols. There, Eddy asks Zorg and Betty if they will live in the dead woman's house and look after her piano shop. Zorg enjoys the quiet provincial life and makes friends with the grocer Bob (Jacques Mathou), his sex-starved wife Annie (Clémentine Célarié) and various offbeat characters, but Betty's violent mood swings are a concern. One day, after an irritating comment from Zorg, she punches out a window with her bare hand and goes on a screaming flight through the town. Happiness seems on the horizon when a home test suggests Betty is pregnant, but a lab test is negative and she sinks into depression and tells him she is hearing voices talking to her in her head. Zorg, masquerading as a woman, robs an armoured cash collection van delivery headquarters, holding the guards at gunpoint and tying them up. He attempts to use the money to buy Betty's happiness, but she fails to respond and enacts yet another prosecutable offence by luring a small boy away from his mother and taking him to a toy store. Zorg finds her and they both flee from the authorities as they rush to rescue the boy.\n\nOne day Zorg comes home to find blood all over the place and Betty gone. Bob tells him she has gouged out an eye and is in the hospital. Rushing there, Zorg finds her under heavy sedation and is told to come back the next day. Going home, he receives a phone call from a publisher accepting his manuscript. On his next visit to the hospital, he finds Betty restrained and catatonic. He becomes agitated and a doctor tells him she will need prolonged treatment and may never recover her sanity. Zorg reacts by blaming her illness on the medication being administered and physically attacks the doctor. He is forcefully ejected from the hospital after a violent struggle with three orderlies. Returning in disguise, he whispers his farewells and smothers Betty with a pillow. Going home, he sits down to continue his current book.\n\n\n\"Betty Blue\" was distributed in the United States in November 1986 with English subtitles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209031", "title": "Yamaha Drums", "text": "Yamaha Drums\n\nYamaha Drums is a subsidiary of the Yamaha Corporation founded in 1967. The company manufactures acoustic and electronic drum kits as well as percussion instruments, marching band equipment, and drum hardware.\n\nMost of Yamaha's drums are manufactured at two different locations in Asia. Their factory in Osaka produces their high-end professional drums as well as all of their marching percussion. The research and development of new products also takes place there. Marketing is managed from the Yamaha Corp. headquarters in Hamamatsu. The factory in China produced the entry-level GigMaker kit and the intermediate-kit Stage Custom Birch. Their factory in Indonesia produces the Tour Custom and the newly introduced Rock Tour series drums. The Indonesian factory uses the same machinery and techniques in their drum shells and all of the craftsmen working there are trained by Japanese craftsmen from the Osaka site. The only difference between these two plants is that the Osaka plant uses the more exclusive woods (maple, birch and oak)\n\nIn 1987, Yamaha acquired the Premier Percussion factory in England in an attempt to establish the Yamaha name in the tougher European market. Yamaha placed machinery and trained the Premier craftsmen in the \"Yamaha-way\" of making drums, resulting in Premier producing a large number of Yamaha drums \"made in England\". In 1992, Yamaha withdrew and sold their stock shares back to Premier.\n\nDrums for the professional, intermediate and beginner\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209032", "title": "Vernon Ingram", "text": "Vernon Ingram\n\nVernon Martin Ingram, PhD, FRS (19 May 1924 – 17 August 2006) born \"Werner Adolf Martin Immerwahr\", was a German American professor of biology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.\n\nIngram was born in Breslau, Lower Silesia. When he was 14, he and his family left Nazi Germany because of their opposition to Nazism (being Jewish) and settled in England. He then Anglicised his name to Vernon Ingram.\n\nDuring the Second World War, Ingram worked at a chemical factory producing drugs for the war effort and at night studied at Birkbeck College at the University of London. He received a bachelor's degree in chemistry in 1945 and a PhD in organic chemistry in 1949.\n\nAfter receiving his doctorate, Ingram worked at postdoctoral appointments at the Rockefeller Institute and Yale University. At Rockefeller, he worked with Moses Kunitz on crystallising proteins. While at Yale, he studied peptide chemistry with Joseph Fruton. In 1952, Ingram returned to England and started working at the Cavendish Laboratory at the University of Cambridge, studying protein chemistry.\n\nIn 1956, Ingram, John A. Hunt, and Antony O. W. Stretton determined that the change in the haemoglobin molecule in sickle cell disease and trait was the substitution of the glutamic acid in position 6 of the β-chain of the normal protein by valine. Ingram used electrophoresis and chromatography to show that the amino acid sequence of normal human and sickle cell anaemia haemoglobins differed due to a single substituted amino acid residue. Much of this work was done with the support of Max Perutz and Francis Crick. Ingram won the William Allan Award from the American Society of Human Genetics in 1967.\n\nThis was the first time a researcher demonstrated that a single amino acid exchange in a protein can cause a disease or disorder. As a result, Vernon Ingram is sometimes referred to as \"The father of Molecular Medicine.\"\nIngram joined the MIT faculty in 1958, intending to stay for only one year. He found that he enjoyed it there so much that he stayed on. While at MIT, Ingram collaborated with Paul Marks of Columbia University on haemoglobin research. He was also interested in embryonic haemoglobin and how it differed from that of adults.\n\nBy the 1980s, Ingram became interested in neuroscience and especially Alzheimer's Disease. His interest was sparked by the work his second wife, Elizabeth (Beth), was doing with intellectually disabled people in the Boston area. She had heard that Down syndrome was a disease of the neurofilaments; this turned out not to be the cause, but it was noted that people with Down syndrome did develop Alzheimer's Disease by the time they were 40.\n\nAfter retirement, Ingram continued his research, maintaining a small laboratory at MIT. He and his wife, Beth, were housemasters of Ashdown House at MIT for 16 years. Asteroid 6285 Ingram is named in their honour. Ingram was Director of the Experimental Study Group, an alternative undergraduate education community at MIT, from 1989 to 1999. \n\nHe was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 2002. \nIngram died in Boston, Massachusetts, on 17 August 2006 of injuries stemming from a fall.\n\n\nInaugural Article: Efficient reversal of Alzheimer's disease fibril formation and elimination of neurotoxicity by a small molecule \nBarbara J. Blanchard, Albert Chen, Leslie M. Rozeboom, Kate A. Stafford, Peter Weigele, and Vernon M. Ingram\nPNAS 2004 101: 14326-14332\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209035", "title": "Nick Punto", "text": "Nick Punto\n\nNicholas Paul Punto (born November 8, 1977) is an American former professional baseball infielder. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Philadelphia Phillies, Minnesota Twins, St. Louis Cardinals, Boston Red Sox, Los Angeles Dodgers, and Oakland Athletics. With the Cardinals, he won the 2011 World Series over the Texas Rangers. He has also played for the Italian national baseball team in the World Baseball Classic.\n\nPunto attended Trabuco Hills High School in Mission Viejo, California and stayed in Mission Viejo to attend Saddleback College before being drafted in the 1998 MLB Draft by the Philadelphia Phillies. Punto played in the Phillies system for the Class A Clearwater Phillies, Class A Batavia Muckdogs, Class AA Reading Phillies and Class AAA Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons before his promotion to the majors. \n\nDrafted in the 21st round of the 1998 MLB draft, Punto made his major league debut with the Philadelphia Phillies on September 9, 2001. He singled to right field off Bob Scanlan of the Montreal Expos as a pinch hitter in the 8th inning. He had 2 hits in 5 at-bats in just 4 games with the Phillies that season. In 2002 with the Scranton/Wilkes-Barre Red Barons, he played in 115 games and hit .271, earning a selection as an International League All-Star.\n\nIn 3 years with the Phillies he played in a total of 77 games and hit .223. His first, and only, home run with the Phillies was hit off Steve Trachsel of the New York Mets on July 10, 2003.\n\nAfter playing in 64 major-league games in , Punto was acquired by the Minnesota Twins in the offseason (along with Carlos Silva) for Eric Milton. He started the season with the team, but he was injured twice and spent the majority of his time in 2004 on the disabled list. In , he competed for the starting job at second base, which he eventually won, and in became the starting third baseman.\n\nPunto was one of four Twins players nicknamed \"The Piranhas\" by then Chicago White Sox manager, Ozzie Guillén. The other Piranhas were Jason Tyner, Jason Bartlett, and Luis Castillo.\n\nIn 2005 Nick Punto batted .239, with a career high 4 home runs, and 26 runs batted in over the duration of 112 games.\n\nPunto had his best full season in Minnesota during the 2006 season when he batted .290 with 45 runs batted in, and posted 17 stolen bases in 135 games.\nIn , Punto experienced his statistically worst full season with Minnesota, batting .210 with 25 runs batted in 150 games. He posted the lowest slugging percentage (.271) of any major league player with at least 200 at-bats in a single season. This was the lowest slugging percentage by a player with over 400 at-bats since José Lind recorded a .269 slugging percentage for the Pittsburgh Pirates in . Punto also posted a −27.1 VORP in 2007, 8.5 runs worse than the second-worst position player in baseball, White Sox infielder Andy González. However, he has always played excellent defense and believed in his defensive abilities which the Twins are so keen on. On May 27 during an MPR broadcast Punto said, \"I take too much pride in my defense to ever let (offensive struggles) affect me or affect my team. The one thing I can control is how I play defense.\"\n\nAfter being injured most of the first half of the season, Punto was activated from the DL on June 25, 2008 and finished the season batting .284 with 28 runs batted in. Punto spent most of the 2008 season as the Twins' primary shortstop.\n\nPunto signed a new two-year deal with the Twins worth $8.5 million following the 2008 season, with a club option for 2011 worth $5 million.\n\nPunto represented Team Italy in the 2009 World Baseball Classic.\n\nAfter struggling as the Twins regular shortstop in 2009, Punto began losing time in the lineup to fellow Twin Brendan Harris. After returning from the disabled list, Punto was re-inserted into the regular lineup at second base, following the struggles of infielders Alexi Casilla and Matt Tolbert. He finished the season batting .228 with 38 RBI over 440 plate appearances.\n\nPunto began the 2010 season as the Twins' starting third baseman, but ended up on the disabled list before the end of April with a strained groin muscle. Punto returned to the lineup in May, playing at third base, shortstop, and second base as injuries cropped up among other players. In July, he was essentially replaced as the starter at third base by Danny Valencia, but he continued to play regularly due to injuries to Orlando Hudson and J. J. Hardy.\n\nOn October 29, the Twins declined Punto's $5 million team option, making him a free agent. In 7 years with the Twins, Punto played in 747 games with a .248 batting average.\n\nOn January 21, 2011 Punto signed a one-year contract with the St. Louis Cardinals worth $700,000. He played in 63 games with the Cardinals, as a utility player, and hit .278 with a career high .388 OBP in 133 at bats. Punto had 3 hits in 14 at-bats, with five walks in the 2011 World Series as the Cardinals defeated the Texas Rangers.\n\nOn December 14, 2011, Punto agreed to a 2-year contract with the Boston Red Sox worth $3 million. In 65 games with the Red Sox in 2012, he hit .200 while starting games at second base, third base and shortstop. He also appeared in five games at first base.\n\nOn August 25, 2012 he was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers (along with Josh Beckett, Carl Crawford and Adrián González and $11 million in cash) for James Loney, Iván DeJesús, Jr., Allen Webster and two players to be named later (Jerry Sands and Rubby De La Rosa). He appeared in 22 games with the Dodgers and hit .286.\n\nPunto represented Italy in the 2013 World Baseball Classic in March 2013. He hit .421 in 19 at bats in 5 games. \n\nIn the 2013 season, Punto saw extensive time at short stop due to injuries to Hanley Ramírez. He appeared in 116 games, his most since 2009, and hit .255 with 2 HR, 21 RBI and 34 runs.\n\nOn September 16, 2013, Punto led off a game against the Arizona Diamondbacks with a single to center field off of Trevor Cahill. Despite the fact that the ball traveled into the outfield, Punto made a headfirst slide into first base anyway.\n\nOn November 13, 2013, Punto agreed to a one-year, $3 million contract with the Oakland Athletics, that included a vesting option for 2015. His numbers dropped off from the year before, as he hit just .207 with 2 home runs and 14 RBIs in 198 at-bats.\n\nPunto's option for the 2015 season vested but the Athletics released him on December 19, 2014.\n\nOn January 7, 2015, Punto signed a minor league contract with the Arizona Diamondbacks that included an invitation to spring training. However, on February 20, Punto informed the Diamondbacks that he would not be reporting to spring training and would be taking the year off from baseball, though he was not officially retiring. He officially announced his retirement from baseball on February 18, 2016.\n\nPunto was inducted into the Saddleback College Athletics Hall of Fame, joining notable former Saddleback and MLB players Tim Wallach and Mark Grace. \n"}
{"id": "2209045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209045", "title": "Harry Diamond (politician)", "text": "Harry Diamond (politician)\n\nHarry Diamond (1908–1996) was a socialist and an Irish nationalist. He was the MP for Belfast Falls in the Parliament of Northern Ireland, and later the leader of the Republican Labour Party.\n\nIn 1927, Diamond was the main initiator and first chairman of O'Donnell's GAA. He later became chairman of Antrim GAA.\n\nDiamond was an active nationalist before the Second World War and in 1933 was sentenced to a month in jail for refusing to pay a fine given out for addressing an illegal rally in support of republican prisoners. The following year, he stood in the Belfast Central by-election as an \"Anti-Partition\" candidate.\n\nIn 1944, Diamond became a founder member of the Socialist Republican Party. He took the Belfast Falls seat at the 1945 Northern Ireland general election. In 1949, no one else contested the seat, and he remained the Socialist Republican Party's only MP, but the party disbanded that year. While most of its members joined the Irish Labour Party, Diamond held his seat, until 1964 as an independent standing as \"Republican Labour\".\n\nIn 1964, Diamond joined with Gerry Fitt to found the Republican Labour Party. He stood for the Westminster constituency of Belfast West in the October 1964 general election, but was defeated by James Kilfedder. The campaign was disfigured by riots after Ian Paisley attempted to lead a Unionist crowd up Divis Street to remove an Irish tricolour from the offices of Sinn Féin, who were supporting the candidacy of Billy McMillen. The riots galvanised the Unionist vote while the nationalist vote was split between Diamond and McMillen. Diamond alleged that the official Ulster Unionist Party had colluded in this.\n\nDiamond saw a strong challenge to his position from the resurgent Northern Ireland Labour Party (NILP) in the late 1960s, and was criticised for being inattentive to his constituents' needs. Paddy Devlin of the NILP, a former supporter of the reformists in the Belfast branch of the Irish Labour Party, defeated him in the 1969 Northern Ireland general election.\n\nIn 1970, Fitt left the Republican Labour Party to found the broader-based Social Democratic and Labour Party. Paddy Kennedy assumed the leadership, but the party was in terminal decline and disbanded in 1973.\n"}
{"id": "2209059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209059", "title": "Audrey Long", "text": "Audrey Long\n\nAudrey Gwendoline Long (April 14, 1922 – September 19, 2014) was an American actress of English descent, who appeared mainly in low-budget films in the 1940s and early 1950s. Some of her more notable film performances include \"Tall in the Saddle\" (1944) opposite John Wayne, \"Wanderer of the Wasteland\" (1945), \"Born to Kill\" (1947), and \"Desperate\" (1947).\n\nAudrey Gwendoline Long was born on April 14, 1922 in Orlando, Florida, the first-born child of English parents. Her father, Christopher Stanley Long (1890-1958), was an Episcopal minister, a naturalized American citizen who served as a chaplain with the United States Navy; her mother Ellen Gwendoline Erskine (1897-1997). She spent some time in Hawaii where her younger brother John Stanley Long (1929- ) was born. She was educated at St. Margaret's School in Tappahannock, Virginia, Los Gatos High School in Los Gatos, California, and Disputanta High School, Virginia. She worked as a model before becoming an actress.\n\nIn 1942, Long made her screen debut in \"The Male Animal\" playing a student. That same year, she appeared in \"Yankee Doodle Dandy\" as a receptionist. Other bit parts followed in 1943. In May 1943, Long played \"Dora Applegate\" in the Broadway play \"Sons and Soldiers\".\n\nIn 1944, she appeared as a leading lady opposite John Wayne in \"Tall in the Saddle\", playing the role of Clara Cardell. In 1945, she appeared in another Western film, \"Wanderer of the Wasteland\", playing \"Jeanie Collinshaw\".\n\nIn 1947, Long had featured roles in two films noir, \"Desperate\" and \"Born to Kill\". She appeared in several low-budget films from 1948 through 1951. In 1952, Long made her last film, \"Indian Uprising\", playing the role of Norma Clemson. She retired from acting that year.\n\nIn January 1945, Long married Edward Rubin, a dialogue director; the marriage ended in divorce in 1951. Long married British novelist Leslie Charteris on April 26, 1952 in California. Charteris was best known for his novels chronicling the adventures of Simon Templar, in the literary series \"The Saint\". The couple traveled extensively, with Charteris using their travel locations for his \"Saint\" novels. The two remained married until his death in 1993.\n\nLong died on September 19, 2014 in Surrey, England. Upon her death, she was cremated and her ashes were placed in a large urn which contains the ashes of her late husband Leslie Charteris. The inscription on the urn reads \"Love Never Dies\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2209064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209064", "title": "The Nagus", "text": "The Nagus\n\n\"The Nagus\" is the 11th episode of the American science fiction television series \"\".\n\nSet in the 24th century, the series follows the adventures on Deep Space Nine, a space station located near a stable wormhole between the Alpha and Gamma quadrants of the Milky Way Galaxy, in orbit of the planet Bajor. In this episode Retiring Grand Nagus Zek announces Quark as his successor (over his own son); Sisko frets over his son's devotion to his friend Nog, a known troublemaker.\n\nZek, the Grand Nagus of the Ferengi Alliance, arrives on the station and seems to take an interest in Quark, but it is not clear why. He tells Quark that he wants to use Quark's bar for a conference, where he announces that Quark will be his successor. The Nagus then dies, apparently making Quark's appointment permanent.\n\nQuark has a hard time adjusting to his new position, but he becomes popular among the Ferengi entrepreneurs by giving away lucrative business opportunities. Zek's son Krax and Rom attempt to kill Quark and are stopped by Zek, who appears before them still very much alive. Quark's appointment was a test to see how his son would respond in his absence, and as Zek says, \"You failed! \"Miserably!\"\" Quark congratulates Rom for having the lobes to try to kill him.\n\nMeanwhile, Sisko is trying to cope with the friendship between his son Jake and Rom's son Nog. His problem is seemingly solved when Rom orders Nog not to attend school; however, Jake and Nog begin spending even more time together. Jake will only tell Sisko that what they are doing is \"private.\" In the end, Sisko finds he has nothing to worry about when he finds Jake teaching Nog how to read.\n\n\n\nIn 2018, CBR ranked Grand Nagus Zek, the character introduced in this episode, as the 13th best recurring character of all \"Star Trek\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2209069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209069", "title": "Helen Cruickshank", "text": "Helen Cruickshank\n\nHelen Burness Cruickshank (15 May 1886 – 2 March 1975) was a Scottish poet and suffragette and a focal point of the Scottish Renaissance. Scottish writers associated with the movement met at her home in Corstorphine.\n\nHelen Burness Cruickshank (Nell) was born in Hillside, Montrose, Angus, in one of the staff houses as her father George Cruickshank, was a hospital attendant at Sunnyside. Helen was the youngest of three to her father George (1845-1924) and mother Sarah Wood (1850-1940), a domestic servant whose father Colin Gibb Wood had been Master Plumber, of Montrose.\n\nHelen was educated at the Hillside village school from the age of four, before attending Montrose Academy at the age of ten with her two older brothers. Every year the family summer holiday was spent in cabins in Glenesk where George taught his children about nature, Helen developed a love of climbing and walking that stayed with her throughout her life where she spent many long trips in the Highlands. The annual family holiday were an inspiration within Cruickshank's poetry with references to the landscapes and people of Angus appearing in her poetry.\n\nAlthough Helen achieved awards in every subject at school, her father could not afford to send her to University as her Rector had advised, and Helen left school at the age of fifteen sitting exams for the Civil Service. Cruickshank's first job was at the Post Office Savings Bank in London from 1903 to 1912, during Helen's time in London she gained an interest in politics and women's suffrage. This interest was sparked due to her awareness of the unfair conditions and restricted wages that she saw working woman had to face in the workplace. Helen joined the Women's Social and Political Union and campaigned for the cause by joining marches and chalking the pavements.\n\nIn 1912, Helen was offered a position in Edinburgh for the health insurance part of the government body which she accepted. It was during her move to Edinburgh that she began to write poetry, it was also around this time that she first fell in love, the heartbreak of the affair spurred her to write. After World War I, Cruickshank began to gain some success in having her poetry published sometimes under pseudonyms in The Glasgow Herald. The magazines and newspapers which Helen was managing to have her work sometimes published in was a source of contemporary poetry, and she began to become familiar with the works of Alexander Gray, William Soutar and Marion Angus, with them also becoming familiar with her work. C. M. Grieve was looking for new contributions for a new anthology, Northern Numbers, which Helen submitted work to and from this their correspondences began a long-lasting friendship between the pair.\n\nHelen began to rent a studio flat in 1921 and liked being a part of the bohemian lifestyle, being so close to the book shops, and Pentland hills were a source of enjoyment for her. However, this freedom did not last as Helen's father died in 1924, as the only daughter it was assumed that Helen would take over the care of her mother which meant she had also had to give up her option to marry, as woman that worked in the civil service could not continue to work after they were married. Helen gave up her studio flat and bought a semi-detached house on Corstorphine Hill.\n\nHelen and her mother moved in to the semi-detached house, Dinnieduff, which became an unofficial meeting place for those involved with Scottish literature at that time. In 1927, Christopher Murray Grieve (Hugh MacDiarmid) became a regular guest at Dinnieduff, he would come to Edinburgh once a month to do business with the Scottish Centre of the PEN Club with Helen being a founding member and Honorary Secretary, Helen would eventually take Hugh's leading role in the PEN Club. Meetings of the PEN Club were often held in Dinnieduff, Helen often held an open house during the 1920s and 1930s where those involved in Scottish literature at that time would visit and stay, notable visitors include the novelist James Leslie Mitchell (Lewis Grassic Gibbon). Her last act for the PEN Club was to raise funds for the International PEN Congress which took place in Scotland in 1934.\n\nCruickshank's first collection \"Up the Noran Water\" (1934) was published by Metheun, was mostly written in Scots with a few poems being written in English. Helen as a proud Scottish nationalist became a founding member of the Saltire Society in 1936. However, Helen's writing had to be put aside as her work-load became heavier due to World War II. Helen worked on a scheme to evacuate children abroad, and also volunteered for fire watching duties over night on top of her own job and caring for her mother. Helen's mother died in 1940.\n\nAfter the war, Helen took on the role of an executive officer for the Department of Health in Edinburgh, a role she held until her retirement, on medical grounds due to duodenal ulcers, in 1944. After her health had recovered sufficiently, Helen began to entertain once more at Dinnieduff. She was an enthusiastic follower of the Edinburgh International Film Festival since its beginnings in 1947.\n\nHelen's later works include \"Sea Buckthorn\" (1954), The \"Ponnage Pool\" (1968), \"Collected Poems\" (1971) and \"More Collected Poems\" (1978), she wrote poetry until the end of her life with her last unfinished poem being about a woman who cannot stop for death as she has too much to do.\n\nThe BBC commissioned a programme in celebration of her 80th birthday, in 1966, and in 1969 her friends commissioned a bust by Vincent Butler, which is on display at the Scottish National Portrait Gallery. She was awarded an honorary MA by Edinburgh University in 1971. Helen lived in Dinnieduff for over fifty years, she lived alone after her mother's death in 1940, and even though her health deteriorated she did not leave her home until it was completely necessary to do so when she was eighty-eight. Helen left to Queensberry Lodge on the Canongate in November 1974 and died there on 2 March 1975. She had planned her own cremation, and this was carried out at Warriston in Edinburgh.\n\nHelen's friends laid a plaque at the front door in 1986. Cruickshank recorded her long life and aspects of her times in her autobiography, \"Octobiography\" (1987), which was published posthumously. Helen Cruickshank is commemorated in Makars' Court, outside The Writers' Museum, Lawnmarket, Edinburgh, selections for Makars' Court are made by the Writers' Museum; the Saltire Society; the Scottish Poetry Library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209071", "title": "KF Elbasani", "text": "KF Elbasani\n\nKlubi i Futbollit Elbasani is an Albanian football club based in the city of Elbasan, who currently compete in the Albanian First Division.\n\nThe club was formed in 1923 as Klubi Futbollit Urani Elbasan, the result of the fusion between two clubs, \"Afërdita Elbasan\" and \"Përparimi Elbasan\". Urani translates to uranium in Albanian, and the club was named this due to the city's association with the metal. The club changed its name to \"KS Skampa Elbasan\" briefly before 1930. They first participated in a nationally recognised competition in the first top flight football league in Albania, the 1930 Kategoria e Parë, where the club finished in 5th place, second from bottom, with a record of 3 wins, 1 draw and 6 losses. The following season they again finished in penultimate place, this time in 7 team league format. In the 1932 champion, they finished bottom of the league, gaining no points after 8 straight losses, which meant that Elbasani were relegated for the first time.\n\nThe club changed its name to \"Bashkimi Elbasanas\" in 1933, when they were playing in the second division, which they won and earned promotion back to the top flight, winning their first trophy in the process. In their first season back in the Kategoria e Parë, they once again finished second form bottom with 2 wins, 2 draws and 8 losses. No competition was held during 1935 and when the league restarted in 1936 Bashkimi finished once again second from bottom, with 3 wins, 2 draws and 9 losses, but the team below them Ismail Qemali Vlorë played 2 fewer games and finished on the same points tally. The 1937 championship proved to be more successful as the club finished in 5th place out of 10 teams, with a record of 7 wins, 3 draws and 8 losses.\n\nThe league officially restarted following World War II in 1945, where Bashkimi finished 3rd in Group B of the new league format, out of 6 teams. The following season they finished 2nd in Group B, just one point behind runners-up Flamurtari Vlorë. For the 1947 season, the league changed to a single 9 team competition, where Bashkimi finished in 8th place. The following season the league returned to the 2 group format, where the club again finished second by one point to Flamurtari Vlorë. The club changed names again to \"KS Elbasani\" in 1949 and \"KF Puna Elbasan\" in 1950.\n\nBetween 1958 and 1991, the club was forcibly named \"KS Labinoti Elbasan\", after a nearby village which had been the center of the first nationwide conference of the Party of Labour of Albania during World War II. In 1984, they won their first and only league title, featuring players like Roland Agalliu, Vladimir Tafani and Muharrem Dosti.\n\nThe club's first participation in a European competition came in 1984, where they met Danish side Lyngby Boldklub in the first round of the Champions League qualification stage. The first leg was played at the Ruzhdi Bizhuta Stadium and KF Elbasani were beaten 3–0 at home, and along with another 3–0 loss in Denmark the aggregate result was 6–0 to Lyngby Boldklub.\n\nFollowing the fall of communism, the club changed its name again to KF Elbasani, which they have not changed ever since. During the 2005–06 season, the team of Elbasani dominated the Albanian Superliga and won the second title in their history, finishing the competition with 11 points more than their rivals in SK Tirana.\n\nIn 2006–07, 1st qualifying round for the Champions League they were eliminated by FK Ekranas from Lithuania (1–3 aggregate). On 24 December 2006, coach Luan Deliu was fired and replaced by Edmond Gezdari.\n\nThe club plays its home games at the Elbasan Arena, which was originally built in 1967 and named the Labinot Stadium after the club's name at the time, which was Labinot Elbasan. The stadium was previously called Ruzhdi Bizhuta, after one of the club's most famous players. In January 2014 it was announced that the stadium would take over from the Qemal Stafa Stadium as the home of the Albania national team until Qemal Stafa is reconstructed. Prime minister Edi Rama visited the stadium on 28 January 2014 and he confirmed that work on the stadium would begin shortly, in order for Albania to be able to play their home games in the country as no other stadiums met the minimum requirements for Euro 2016 qualifiers. Works on the stadium began in February, and they were completed in time for Albania's opening qualifying fixture against Denmark in October 2014. The overall reconstruction costs amounted to €5.5 million, which included works being completed on everything from the parking lot to the installation of new floodlights, and the stadium now has an official seated capacity of 12,800.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209073", "title": "Sechuran fox", "text": "Sechuran fox\n\nThe Sechuran fox (\"Lycalopex sechurae\"), also called the Peruvian desert fox or the Sechuran zorro, is a small South American species of canid closely related to other South American \"false\" foxes or zorro. It gets its name for being found in the Sechura Desert in northwestern Peru.\n\nThe Sechuran fox is small for a canid, weighing , with a head-and-body length of and a tail of . Its fur is gray agouti over most of the body, fading to white or cream coloured on the underparts. There are reddish-brown markings on the backs of the ears, around the eyes, and on the legs. The muzzle is dark grey, and a grey band runs across the chest. Its tail is tipped with black. It has small teeth, adapted to feed on insects and dry plants, with fox-like canine teeth.\n\nThe chromosome number is 2n=74.\n\nFirst identified in the Sechura desert, the fox inhabits arid environments in southwestern Ecuador and western Peru, at elevations from sea level to at least , and possibly much higher. Within this region it has been reported from the western foothills of the Andes down to the coast, inhabiting deserts, dry forests, and beaches. There are no recognised subspecies.\n\nSeveral fossils of Sechuran foxes are known from the late Pleistocene of Ecuador and Peru, close to the modern range. Genetic analysis suggests that the closest living relative of the Sechuran fox is Darwin's fox, which is native to Chile.\n\nThe Sechuran fox is nocturnal, and spends the daylight hours in a den dug into the ground. It is generally solitary, although occasionally seen travelling in pairs. Pups are born in October and November, although little else is known of its reproductive behavior.\n\nThe fox is an opportunistic feeder, and its diet varies widely depending on the season and local habitat. It has been found to feed on seed pods, especially those of the shrub \"Prosopis juliflora\" and of caper bushes, as well as the fruit of \"Cordia\" and mito plants, and is capable of surviving on an entirely herbivorous diet when necessary. More commonly, however, it also eats insects, rodents, bird eggs, and carrion as a part of its diet. It can probably survive for long periods of time without drinking, subsisting on the water in its food.\n\nThe Sechuran fox is threatened by habitat loss, which has been particularly extensive in Ecuador. They have been known to prey on local livestock, such as chickens, and are hunted both to reduce such attacks and so that their body parts can be used in local handicrafts, folk medicine, or magical rituals. The animal is considered at Low Risk in Ecuador, and hunting is not permitted in Peru without a licence. The species is listed as Near Threatened by the IUCN.\n"}
{"id": "2209076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209076", "title": "Hans Kohlhase", "text": "Hans Kohlhase\n\nHans Kohlhase (c. 1500 – 1540) according to early modern German accounts was a merchant whose grievance against a Saxon nobleman developed into a full-blown feud against the state of Saxony, thus infringing the Eternal Peace of 1495. The campaign culminated in Kohlhase's execution in March 1540.\n\nIn October 1532, according to the story, Kohlhase was proceeding from his hometown of Cölln to the fair at Leipzig, when he was attacked and his horses were taken from him by the servants of a Saxon nobleman, one Günter von Zaschwitz. \nIn consequence of the delay the merchant suffered some loss of business at the fair and on his return he refused to pay the rather large sum which Zaschwitz demanded as a condition of returning the horses. In return Kohlhase asked for a substantial amount of money as compensation for his loss, and failing to secure this he invoked the aid of his sovereign, the Elector of Brandenburg Joachim I Nestor.\nFinding however that it was impossible to recover his horses, he paid Zaschwitz the sum required for them, but reserved to himself the right to take further action.\n\nUnable to obtain redress in the courts of law, Kohlhase in a feud letter threw down a challenge, not only to his aggressor, but to the whole of Saxony. Acts of lawlessness were soon attributed to him, and after an attempt to settle the feud had failed, the elector of Saxony, John Frederick I, set a price upon the head of the angry merchant.\nKohlhase now sought revenge in earnest. Gathering around him a band of criminals and desperados, he spread terror throughout the whole of Saxony; travellers were robbed, villages were burned and towns were plundered. For some time the authorities were practically powerless to stop these outrages, but in March 1540 Kohlhase and his principal associate, Georg Nagelschmidt, were seized, and on the 22nd of the month they were broken on the wheel in Berlin.\n\nHeinrich von Kleist's novel, \"Michael Kohlhaas\", is loosely based on Kohlhase's life. The novel was made into 3 films, \"Michael Kohlhaas – der Rebell\" in 1969, and \"\" in 2013. Further, it was the inspiration for the character \"Coalhouse Walker, Jr.\" in E. L. Doctorow's novel \"Ragtime\".\nAnd the Jack Bull in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209079", "title": "Åraksbø", "text": "Åraksbø\n\nÅraksbø is a village in Bygland municipality in Aust-Agder county, Norway. The village is located on the eastern shore of the Åraksfjorden, about north of the village of Sandnes and about southeast of the village of Ose. The population (2001) of the Åraksbø area was 89.\n\nThe lake Hovatn and its hydroelectric power plant are located about to the northeast, just north of the village of Litveit. Sandnes Church has been located in this village since 1935, prior to that time, it was located in the village of Sandnes, a few kilometers to the south.\n"}
{"id": "2209084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209084", "title": "Matorral", "text": "Matorral\n\nMatorral is a Spanish word, along with tomillares, for shrubland, thicket or bushes. It is used in naming and describing a Mediterranean climate ecosystem in Southern Europe.\n\n\"Matorral\" originally referred just to the Matorral shrublands and woodlands ecoregion of the global Mediterranean forests, woodlands, and scrub Biome in the Mediterranean climate regions of Spain and other Mediterranean basin countries. These scrub shrublands and woodlands are a plant community and a distinct habitat. Other common general names for this Mediterranean region shrubland habitat ecosystem are: in France as Maquis and Garrigue; in Italy as Macchia Mediterranea; in Greece as Phrygana; in Portugal as Mato; and in Israel as Batha. Now the term is used more broadly to include similar bio-assemblages where ever they occur.\n\nIn Portugal, the term \"mato\" or \"matagal\" is used to refer to the scrublands, or heaths, that formed on the Cambrian and Silurian schists in the north and central parts of Portugal.\n\nMediterranean \"Matorral\" shrublands are often part of a mosaic landscape, interspersed with forests, woodlands, grassland, and scrublands.\n\nThe term \"matorral\" followed Spanish colonization of the Americas, and is used to refer to both Mediterranean (climate) woodlands and scrub, and xeric shrublands ecosystems in Mexico, Chile, and elsewhere.\n\nThere are Chilean Matorral areas in central Chile, including portions of La Campana National Park.\n\nThe Portuguese term \"mato\" was imported to colonial eastern South America, where it was used to refer to the great scrublands, savannas, and flooded grasslands region called the Mato Grosso, in present-day western Brazil.\n\nThe regional Mexican band Los Tigres Del Norte used the term matorrales, the plural form of matorral, in their now-famous song \"Pacas De A Kilo,\" an example of the infamous \"narco-corridos\" or drug ballads.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209086", "title": "KZSU", "text": "KZSU\n\nKZSU is a freeform FM radio station broadcasting from the campus of Stanford University in Stanford, California, United States.\n\nKZSU broadcasts in stereo at 90.1 MHz FM with an effective radiated power of 500 watts. The station is owned by the Trustees of Stanford University and is governed by a Board of Directors appointed by the University's President. Operations are managed by a General Manager selected each year from the student body.\n\nKZSU began broadcasting on January 6, 1947, using the informal call letters KSU. Originally an AM carrier-current station, it relied on cables strung throughout Stanford's network of steam tunnels to carry its 590 kHz (later 880 kHz) signal. The first broadcast was a musical comedy revue starring Doodles Weaver. At first, the station broadcast only in the evenings. In the 1940s and 1950s, KZSU was a commercial station broadcasting popular and classical music, local cultural events, talk shows, and radio plays.\n\nThe station was shut down for two years following a raid by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in August 1958, which resulted from rising interference with the signal of radio station KGO-AM at 810 kHz. Broadcasting resumed in the fall of 1960. Renamed KZSU at the behest of the FCC, the station received a noncommercial FM license in 1964, moved its transmitter from the center of campus to the nearby foothills in 1970, and upgraded its transmitter power from 10 to 500 watts in 1978. The AM carrier gradually died in the early 1980s.\n\nKZSU's all-volunteer staff is currently made up of locals as well as Stanford students and staff.\n\nWhile the height above average terrain (HAAT) of its 500-watt transmitting antenna is minus 3 meters (-10 feet), owing to proximity to mountains, its height above mean sea level (AMSL) is 155 m (509 ft.), giving it a vantage over the flat regions visible from the transmitter site. These include all of Stanford and Palo Alto, and much of the Peninsula and South Bay. KZSU says that its signal extends as far north as the San Francisco International Airport and south as San Jose.. \n\nKZSU has also broadcast live on the internet since 1995.\n\nKZSU's programming includes the following:\n\nCurrent programming at KZSU consists primarily of music, with an emphasis on independent new releases. KZSU's music library contained nearly 80,000 CDs and a similar number of vinyl discs as of December 2005.\n\nThe station is also notable for its commitment to Stanford athletics. In recent years KZSU has carried live coverage of eight Stanford team sports throughout the year (football, men's and women's basketball and soccer, baseball, women's volleyball and softball). KZSU\nalso produces news and talk shows, and simulcasts meetings of the Palo Alto City Council, and services from Stanford Memorial Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209100", "title": "Koltsevaya line", "text": "Koltsevaya line\n\nThe Koltsevaya line (, \"Circle line\", ) (Line 5) is a line of the Moscow Metro. The line was built in 1950–1954 as a circle route orbiting central Moscow, and became crucial to the transfer patterns of passengers. The stations of the line were built at the height of Stalinist architecture, and include Komsomolskaya, Novoslobodskaya and Kiyevskaya.\n\nIn the initial plans of the Metro's development, there was no provision for the Circle line. Instead it was planned for complete cross-city routes (\"diameters\") to cross the city centre with interchange stations at their intersections. However, after the opening of the second stage in 1938, it was clear from the excessive loads on those junctions, that this plan would be insufficient to deal with the growing number of passengers as the system expanded. An urban legend suggests that Joseph Stalin himself suggested the line when he placed a coffee cup on the original development map (with no ring) and then lifting it and leaving a circular stain around the centre of the city and said \"It's your main fault, it should be built\". It is thought this is the reason for the line's brown colour on all metro maps.\n\nIn principle, the alignment of the ring was also debated, whether to use the Garden Ring avenue that encircles the centre or a wider circumference. In the end, it was decided to partially align the southern path along the Sadovoye Koltso, and let the northern part deviate to connect most of Moscow's rail terminals. This solved a major logistical problem, because, due to the layout of Russia's railroads, it would be impossible to travel from a region on one side of Moscow to another without having to make a manual transfer from one terminal to another.\n\nConstruction began shortly after the end of the war. The first stage was opened in 1950 from Park Kultury to Kurskaya. In 1952 a second segment completed the northern deviation up to Belorusskaya and in 1954 the circumference was linked.\n\nThe construction of the ring allowed for massive changes in the passenger flow patterns around Moscow and allowed a systematic development platform for many future lines. A total of seven radial lines began at the ring, four of which later linked up in the centre to become diameters.\n\nThe Koltsevaya line, unlike other lines of Moscow Metro, does not service any stations that belong to that line exclusively; rather, all its stations are transfer stations, linking to other lines, as shown below:\nThe line is serviced by the Krasnaya Presnya depot (No.4) and was the first one to adopt the 81-717/714 model trains in 1978. But replacement of those models by the 81–740.4/81-741.4, which started operating in revenue service on the line since early 2010, was completed by 1 December 2011. Four 81-717/714 trains from the Krasnaya Presnya depot are now in service on Filevskaya line.\n\nSubway car types used on the line over the years:\n\n-Series G: 1950 - 1983\n\n-Series 81-717: 1978 - 2011\n\n-Series 81-740.4: 2009 - present\n\nToday the line is one of busiest, and the ever-rising passenger flows during rush hours are noticeably felt as most of the stations are over half a century old. In 1998 a second entrance was opened at Belorusskaya and there are plans to equip Park Kultury and Komsomolskaya with similar ones.\n\nMany restoration works are carried out to improve the old line, recently Novoslobodskaya had major restoration work carried out, including replacement of lighting and retouching on the stained glass masterpieces by Pavel Korin. The vestibule of Taganskaya was closed in 2005 to replace old escalators and upgrade with new turnstiles and also cosmetically renovate it, this was re-opened in 2006, and shortly afterwards Dobryninskaya followed suit for a similar upgrade.\n\nDespite the fact that when opened, there were six stations left for future transfer provisions, this turned out to be too small for the growing system. Metro planned two additional stations on the line Suvorovskaya, which connect to the Lyublinsko–Dmitrovskaya line and Rossiyskaya, which would connect to the Kalininsko–Solntsevskaya line. Some preliminary work had been performed on Suvorovskaya. In 2017, Metro terminated plans for both stations. A manager for the system indicated that the stations were unlikely to be completed as they were too technically complex, too long, and too costly to compete. Consequently, Vasiliev stated that the station was unlikely to be built.. On August 19, 2019 works on Suvorovskaya station construction site resumed .\n\n"}
{"id": "2209101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209101", "title": "Gobrecht dollar", "text": "Gobrecht dollar\n\nThe Gobrecht dollar, minted from 1836 to 1839, was the first silver dollar struck for circulation by the United States Mint since production of that denomination was officially halted in 1806. The coin was struck in small numbers to determine whether the reintroduced silver dollar would be well received by the public.\n\nIn 1835, Director of the United States Mint Samuel Moore resigned his post, and Robert M. Patterson assumed the position. Shortly after, Patterson began an attempt to redesign the nation's coinage. After Mint Chief Engraver William Kneass suffered a stroke later that year, Christian Gobrecht was hired as an engraver. On August 1, Patterson wrote a letter to Philadelphia artist Thomas Sully laying out his plans for the dollar coin. He also asked Titian Peale to create a design for the coin. Sully created an obverse design depicting a seated representation of Liberty and Peale a reverse depicting a soaring bald eagle, which were converted into coin designs by Gobrecht. After the designs were created and trials struck, production of the working dies began in September 1836.\n\nAfter a small quantity was struck for circulation, the Mint received complaints regarding the prominent placement of Gobrecht's name on the dollar, and the design was modified to incorporate his name in a less conspicuous position. In January 1837, the legal standard for the percentage of precious metal in silver coins was changed from 89.2% to 90%, and the Gobrecht dollars struck after that point reflect this change. In total, 1,900 Gobrecht dollars were struck during the official production run. Production of the Seated Liberty dollar, which utilized the same obverse design as the Gobrecht dollar, began mintage in 1840. In the 1850s, Mint officials controversially re-struck the coins without authorization.\n\nThe first silver dollars struck by the United States Mint were minted in 1794. In 1804, the Mint unofficially ended production of silver dollars because many of the coins produced since that denomination had first been struck in 1794 were exported for their silver content to Eastern Asia, especially Canton (modern day Guangzhou). In 1806, then Secretary of State James Madison issued an order officially halting mintage of the coins. In 1831, Mint Director Samuel Moore noticed a reversal; a large shipment of Spanish dollars had recently been shipped from Canton to the United States. Later that year, President Andrew Jackson, at Moore's request, lifted the prohibition.\n\nNo further action was taken until the summer of 1834, when officials suggested that proof coin sets be prepared as gifts for Asian dignitaries. After examining Mint records, personnel incorrectly concluded that the last Draped Bust dollars minted were dated 1804, so they chose that date for the coins. It is unknown why the current date was not used, but numismatic historian R.W. Julian suggests the coins were predated to prevent coin collectors from becoming angered when they would be unable to obtain the newly dated coins, which were struck in very small numbers. It is unknown precisely how many 1804 dollars were struck, though eight are known to be extant.\n\nLater, in 1835, Mint officials began preparations for a series of silver dollars which, unlike the 1804 dollar, were intended to enter circulation in order to determine whether the denomination would be well received by the public. In June 1835, Moore resigned his post as director, and was replaced by Robert M. Patterson. Shortly thereafter, Director Patterson approached two well-known Philadelphia artists, Titian Peale and Thomas Sully, to create a design that would be used to overhaul most of the American coins then in production. Mint Chief Engraver Kneass prepared a sketch based on Patterson's conception, but soon suffered a stroke, leaving him partially incapacitated. Following Kneass' stroke, government officials approved Patterson's urgent request that Philadelphia medallist Christian Gobrecht be hired immediately to fulfill the duties of engraver; Director Moore requested the same prior to his resignation, but no action was taken immediately.\n\nIn a letter dated August 1, 1835, Patterson proposed that Sully create a Seated Liberty figure for the obverse, suggesting that the \"figure be in a sitting posture—sitting, for example, on a rock.\" Patterson also suggested that the seated figure should hold in her right hand a pileus atop a liberty pole to be \"emblematic of Liberty\". Numismatic historian Don Taxay notes the similarity between Patterson's Seated Liberty concept and designs already in use on British copper coinage: \"Liberty thus emerged as a refurbished Britannia, her trident replaced by a staff and pileus.\" In the same letter, Patterson also informed Sully of his vision for the reverse, which Peale would execute: \"I propose an Eagle flying, and rising in flight, amidst a constellation, irregularly dispersed, of 24 stars [representing the number of states then forming the Union], and carrying in its claws a scroll with the words E PLURIBUS UNUM\". Patterson preferred a soaring eagle because he believed that the heraldic eagle commonly used on American coins, which he dismissed as a \"mere creature of imagination\", was unappealing as a design. According to a common story, the flying eagle seen on the Gobrecht dollar was modeled after Peter, the Mint's pet eagle, who was taxidermied after his death by becoming caught in a coining press and remains on display at the Mint to this day.\n\nIn September 1835, Thomas Sully received from Patterson a set of British coins and medals to help guide him while creating the Seated Liberty design. Sully sent Patterson three rough sketches near the beginning of October, and those were given to Gobrecht, who in turn set about making a copper engraving of the design. Gobrecht completed the engraving on October 14, and Patterson presented prints created from it to several government officials in an effort to gain their approval. President Jackson, Treasury Secretary Levi Woodbury, and the rest of the cabinet all approved of the design. On October 17, while Jackson and his cabinet were reviewing the design, Woodbury wrote Patterson giving permission to proceed with creating dies for the new coins based on the prints. In January 1836, die trials were conducted in soft metal. These pieces were then circulated among the public for suggestions. Patterson then authorized production of a steel obverse die; the reverse could not yet be created because Peale had yet to complete his design to Patterson's satisfaction. While Peale continued his work, Gobrecht began work on a design for a gold dollar, which occupied much of his time at the Mint. On April 9, Patterson wrote a letter to the Treasury secretary in which he included several of Peale's drawings; Patterson viewed one of the designs as the best created to date. Despite the director's approval of the design, he instructed Peale to continue until Patterson was satisfied. This was evidently achieved, because Patterson had Gobrecht to begin work on a reverse die in June. In August, Patterson sent a uniface striking of the reverse die to President Jackson, who approved designs for both sides of the coin\n\nIn September 1836, Chief Coiner Adam Eckfeldt began sinking the working dies that would be used to strike the coins. However, before production could begin, Patterson ordered that Gobrecht's name be added to the dollar. His name appeared as \"C. GOBRECHT F\", short for \"Christian Gobrecht Fecit\", meaning \"Christian Gobrecht made it\". The Gobrecht dollar was first struck in December 1836. Several pieces were produced and distributed throughout Philadelphia. Despite a positive reception for the overall design, many criticized the prominent display of Gobrecht's name on the coin. Gobrecht requested that his name be removed entirely from the face of the coin; instead, the engraver was instructed to change its size and placement at the behest of Patterson.\n\nWhen the full-scale production began, the reverse eagle was surrounded by 26 stars rather than 24 as Patterson had originally requested of Sully, as the states of Arkansas and Michigan had been admitted to the Union since Patterson's letter was penned in 1835. Some of the Gobrecht dollars produced were struck with 'medal alignment', meaning that the obverse and reverse images both face upward when the coin is rotated around its vertical axis. For the 1837 production (which kept the 1836 date), Patterson ordered that the coins be struck in coin alignment, the opposite of medal alignment, and the practice with current US coins (the two faces both are upright when the coin is rotated about its horizontal axis). An act of January 18, 1837, officially changed the legal standard for silver coins from 89.2% to 90% silver. Numismatic historian Walter Breen asserts that those pieces struck before the passage of this act are technically patterns (or coins created to test their design, composition or other points), as they were not authorized by Congress. In total, 1,000 pieces dated 1836 were struck in 89.2% silver and 600 in 90% silver. Gobrecht dollars struck prior to passage of the act weighed , while those struck later weighed .\n\nPersistent public demand for the new coins prompted Woodbury to contact Patterson, requesting more silver dollars. In 1838, the design was modified to remove the stars from the reverse. Throughout the production run, a number of different Gobrecht dollar patterns, which differed from the general issues, were struck. A small number were struck bearing the date of 1838 that did not bear Gobrecht's initials in any form. In total, 300 dollars of this type dated 1839 were struck for circulation, all in medal alignment. Patterson's trial issue had evidently been a success, as full-scale production of the Seated Liberty dollar began in 1840. The Seated Liberty dollar utilized an obverse design based on that of the Gobrecht dollar, though the reverse was altered from a soaring to a heraldic eagle.\n\nFollowing an increase in coin collecting among the public in the mid-nineteenth century, there arose considerable demand for older American coins. Mint Director James Ross Snowden began selling restrikes of Gobrecht dollars and trading them for rare medals (especially those depicting or relating to former President George Washington), which were then added to the Mint's coin collection, then known as a coin cabinet. The money generated from selling the restrikes went toward purchasing new items for the coin cabinet. The restrikes created under Snowden's tenure were likely struck in 1859 and 1860, but the practice was largely halted after the eruption of a public scandal; other Mint employees were creating and selling restrikes of early American coins for their own profit. All Gobrecht dollar restrikes, when tilted on their axis, depict the reverse eagle flying level, rather than upward as it is depicted on the coins struck during the official production run. It is unknown precisely why the orientation of the eagle was altered, though it is believed by many numismatists that Snowden did this intentionally to make restrikes distinguishable from originals. Numismatic historian Walter Breen suggests that Snowden simply used the alignment because that was the same used on the Flying Eagle cent, which began production in 1856. Mint Engraver James B. Longacre, its designer, had borrowed Gobrecht and Peale's eagle reverse for the one-cent coin's obverse.\n\n\nOnline sources\n"}
{"id": "2209102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209102", "title": "Slide It In", "text": "Slide It In\n\nSlide It In is the sixth studio album by British hard rock band Whitesnake, released in 1984. It was the first Whitesnake album to be released by Geffen Records in the US, but was remixed for the release there. Because of this, two different editions of the album exist, each with its own unique qualities. It was their fourth top 10 album in the UK, peaking at number 9. In 1988 the album re-entered the US charts due to the success of the self-titled \"Whitesnake\" album (\"1987\"), and is certified double platinum. It was the final Whitesnake recording to use the band's original \"snake\" logo. The album eventually sold over four million records.\n\nRecordings of \"Slide It In\" began in 1983 at Musicland Studios in Munich, Germany with producer Eddie Kramer, who had been suggested to David Coverdale by Geffen Records A&R executive John Kalodner. But things within the band were not the same as they were before, as stated by Micky Moody in a 1997 interview: \n\nMoody completed the recording of the whole album with new producer Martin Birch, who had replaced Kramer after his dismissal for lack of feeling with the band. He also co-wrote the song \"Slow an' Easy\", but things came to a head in late 1983. According to Moody, Coverdale's personality had changed compared to when they got to know each other in 1976. \"Me and David weren't friends and co-writers anymore. David never said anything to me. He just didn't socialise with me anymore. David was a guy who five, six years earlier was my best friend.\"\n\nMoody finally decided to leave Whitesnake when Coverdale embarrassed him in front of Thin Lizzy guitarist John Sykes, who were touring alongside Whitesnake. \n\nApparently, this did not seem to be a major problem to Coverdale, as, according to Moody, \"After the gig, I said to the tour manager, 'I want to have a meeting in my room with all the band: I have something to say'. The other band members arrived and I said, 'Where is David?'. The tour manager came and told me, 'David is entertaining people in his suite, and he won't come down.'\"\n\nSoon after Moody's departure, John Sykes was announced to the press as the new Whitesnake guitarist. At the same time it was in the news that Hodgkinson had been fired, as Coverdale felt that his style did not suit Whitesnake's new sound. As a result of Hodgkinson's departure, Neil Murray was asked to rejoin Whitesnake.\n\nWhen the UK release of \"Slide It In\" came out, it was a chart success, but was heavily criticized for the \"double-entendre drenched lyrics and titles for which Whitesnake were already infamous\" and for the album mix, which was deemed \"resoundingly flat\".\n\nThis was soon to change, as Whitesnake's US label, Geffen Records, insisted the album be remixed. With the help of famous producer Keith Olsen, \"Slide It In\" had its sound revamped, having a bigger and at the time a more modern sound, as well as giving John Sykes and Neil Murray the opportunity to replace Moody's guitar parts and Hodgkinson's bass parts, respectively.\n\nWhitesnake engaged in a European tour with the Coverdale / Sykes / Galley / Murray / Lord / Powell line-up, but the band ran into trouble when Mel Galley got involved in an accident which damaged some nerves in his arm, making him unable to play the guitar. He continued as a Whitesnake member for a time, but was fired not long after. The five-piece continued touring until April 1984, until another line-up change followed. In April 1984 the Deep Purple reunion was imminent, and Jon Lord played his last Whitesnake concert on 16 April at Grand Hotel in Stockholm, Sweden which was filmed for the \"Måndagsbörsen\" Swedish TV show. Lord's departure now left Whitesnake as a four-piece, not counting the off-stage keyboard player Richard Bailey, who was brought into the band.\n\nThe US edition of \"Slide It In\" rapidly gained airplay in the United States, suddenly increasing the demand for Whitesnake. The more streamlined, four-piece version of the band started touring the United States supporting Quiet Riot and then Dio. The extensive touring, along with the MTV-ready promotional videos for the songs \"Slow an' Easy\" and \"Love Ain't No Stranger\", helped the American market to open itself for Whitesnake, something which would lead to the band breaking big on the United States with their 1987 album three years later.\n\nThe European edition of the album contains the original mix. This mix features a stronger presence of keyboards by Jon Lord, and the bass is more noticeable. The track order is also different from the US mix.\n\nThe US mix lowers the keyboards and bass in the mix, and is more oriented around the guitars and drums. The US version features some different guitar solos to the European edition, with the addition of John Sykes as a third guitarist layered on top of the original guitar parts recorded by Mel Galley and Micky Moody. The bass guitar parts which were originally recorded by Colin Hodgkinson were replaced by returning member Neil Murray's bass guitar parts. The US version also included some new keyboard parts by Bill Cuomo.\n\nThere are also other, more subtle differences in the mix. For instance, on the track \"Gambler\" on the UK version, Coverdale's voice echoes after every line he sings – this does not happen in the US mix. On the track \"Slow an' Easy\", the US version has more echo.\n\nIn 2009, the album was re-issued as a 2-disc digipack to commemorate its 25th anniversary. On the first disc, the CD contains the entire US mix of the album and 8 of the original UK mixes digitally remastered. The UK mixes of \"Hungry for Love\" or \"Love Ain't No Stranger\" are not included, but the acoustic version of \"Love Ain't No Stranger\" is featured (taken from \"Starkers in Tokyo\"). A DVD containing promo videos and live performances is also included.\n\nNotable is that the two songs on the \"Guilty of Love\" single (\"Guilty of Love\" and the B-side \"Gambler\") are the only released material from the first sessions with producer Eddie Kramer. The same songs were included as bonus tracks on the 2CD version of the 2019 remaster.\n\nRhino Records released a version in 2017 with the 2009 remastered tracks but a new track listing.\nA deluxe remaster version was released on 26 February 2019 in a number of configurations: CD, 2CD, 2LP and a super deluxe 6 CD+DVD box. The 6CD/DVD collection features remastered versions of the UK and US versions of Whitesnake’s sixth studio album, a 35th anniversary remix, along with previously unreleased live and studio recordings, music videos, live footage and a new interview with vocalist David Coverdale. The double CD edition features the remastered versions of the UK and US mixes along with bonus tracks, the 2LP has the UK and US mixes, while the single CD is the new 35th anniversary remaster by Christopher Collier. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209104", "title": "Family tree of Uthman", "text": "Family tree of Uthman\n\nUthman ibn Affan (Arabic: عثمان بن عفان) (c. 583 – June 17, 656) was the third Caliph of the Ummah, and is regarded by the Muslims as one of the Four Righteously Guided Caliphs. He reigned from 644 until 656. He was the companion of Islamic prophet Muhammad as well as son-in-law of Muhammad. His two daughters were married to Uthman one after another therefore Uthman earned a honorific title \"Dhul-Noorayn\" (Possessor of Two Lights).\n\n"}
{"id": "2209105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209105", "title": "Alex Sadkin", "text": "Alex Sadkin\n\nAlex Sadkin (April 9, 1949 – July 25, 1987) was an American record producer, engineer, mixer and mastering engineer.\n\nSadkin grew up in Fort Lauderdale, Florida across the street from Bennett Elementary School, and played saxophone in Sunrise Junior High School and Fort Lauderdale High School. Sadkin attended the University of Miami in Coral Gables for his first year of college as a biology major. He attended Florida State University in Tallahassee where he played bass guitar with childhood friends Lyle LaBarbera (rhythm guitar) and Jim Hendee (drums), and singer Phil Turk. He eventually received his Bachelor of Science degree in geology in 1971. He got his start in the music industry as a saxophonist for the Las Olas Brass in Fort Lauderdale.\n\nAfter graduation, Sadkin worked with Jim Hendee at a sea turtle farm called Mariculture, Ltd. on Grand Cayman Island, where they both lived on Seven Mile Beach, a few miles from the town of Hell. During their six months of living and scuba diving there, they got their first taste of playing reggae at several clubs around the island.\n\nWhen Sadkin returned to South Florida he began his recording career. He was first trained as a mastering engineer but eventually moved into recording studio work as a \"tape-op\" (Assistant Engineer) at Criteria Studios in Miami, Florida. He got his first big break after impressing Neil Young with his mixing ability, and he eventually became head engineer at Compass Point Studio in Nassau, Bahamas. He worked alongside Island Records boss Chris Blackwell on many of the label's projects, most famously with Bob Marley and the Wailers, including the seminal \"Rastaman Vibration\".\n\nA full member of the Compass Point All Stars from day one, he began producing artists for Island Records (Grace Jones, Marianne Faithfull, Robert Palmer, Joe Cocker), while doing mixing work for other labels (Talking Heads). Among the other artists he produced in the 1980s are James Brown, the J. Geils Band, Thompson Twins, Classix Nouveaux, Foreigner, Duran Duran, Simply Red, Arcadia and Paul Haig.\n\nSadkin produced the first two of the Thompson Twins' (as a trio) albums, \"Quick Step & Side Kick\" (1983) and \"Into the Gap\" (1984) as well as the original UK single release of \"Lay Your Hands on Me\", in late 1984. However, the band parted company with him as the producer for their next album and opted to produce \"Here's to Future Days\" by themselves in Paris; right before its release after the collapse of the singer Tom Bailey, the release was postponed. The postponement caused them to rethink the project and producer Nile Rodgers was subsequently called in to rework the album with them along with Sadkin's production of the single \"Lay Your Hands on Me\" and released in 1985.\n\nSadkin was a mentor to engineer and producer Phil Thornalley, who would go on to work with The Cure, Johnny Hates Jazz, and Natalie Imbruglia. He had a special gift of being able to sense and analyze an artist's inner creative abilities and talents, even if the artist couldn't. Composer-keyboardist Wally Badarou had this to say about Sadkin: \"His dedication to maintaining genuine 'mixes in progress' from the word go, was a great lesson. I made it a system for my subsequent production from then on.\"\n\nSadkin died in a motor accident in Nassau at the age of 38, shortly after completing production work on Boom Crash Opera's eponymous 1987 album, and just before he was due to begin working with Ziggy Marley. The songs \"Do You Believe in Shame?\" by Duran Duran, \"Gone Too Soon\" by Robbie Nevil, and Grace Jones' \"Well Well Well\" are all dedicated to his memory. Joe Cocker's album \"Unchain My Heart\" (1987) is dedicated to the memory of Alex Sadkin, the quote from the album cover stating 'A Man who lived for music, and a good friend'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209111", "title": "Francis George Scott", "text": "Francis George Scott\n\nFrancis George Scott (25 January 1880 – 6 November 1958) was a Scottish composer.\n\nBorn at 6 Oliver Crescent, Hawick, Roxburghshire, he was the son of a supplier of mill-engineering parts. Educated at Hawick, and at the universities of Edinburgh and Durham, he studied composition under Jean Roger-Ducasse. In 1925, he became Lecturer in Music at Jordanhill Training College for Teachers, Glasgow, a post he held for more than twenty-five years. \n\nHe wrote more than three hundred songs, including many settings of Hugh MacDiarmid, William Dunbar, William Soutar and Robert Burns's poems. MacDiarmid stated in an essay that his key long poem \"A Drunk Man Looks at the Thistle\" could not have been completed without Scott's help.\n\nThe Anglo-Scottish composer Ronald Stevenson has transcribed several of Scott's works for piano. \n\nScott is often associated with the Scottish Renaissance. His daughter, Lillias, married the Scottish composer Erik Chisholm.\nSadie, S. (ed.) (1980) \"The New Grove Dictionary of Music & Musicians\", [vol. # 17].\n\n"}
{"id": "2209124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209124", "title": "Don't Be Cruel", "text": "Don't Be Cruel\n\n\"Don't Be Cruel\" is a song recorded by Elvis Presley and written by Otis Blackwell in 1956. It was inducted into the Grammy Hall of Fame in 2002. In 2004, it was listed #197 in \"Rolling Stone's\" list of 500 Greatest Songs of All Time. The song is currently ranked as the 173rd greatest song of all time, as well as the sixth best song of 1956, by Acclaimed Music.\n\n\"Don't Be Cruel\" was the first song that Presley's song publishers, Hill and Range, brought to him to record. Blackwell was more than happy to give up 50% of the royalties and a co-writing credit to Presley to ensure that the \"hottest new singer around covered it\". But unfortunately he had already sold the song for only $25, as he stated in an interview of American Songwriter. \n\nFreddy Bienstock, Presley's music publisher, gave the following explanation for why Elvis received co-writing credit for songs like \"Don't Be Cruel.\" \"In the early days Elvis would show dissatisfaction with some lines and he would make alterations, so it wasn't just what is known as a 'cut-in'. His name did not appear after the first year. But if Elvis liked the song, the writers would be offered a guarantee of a million records and they would surrender a third of their royalties to Elvis'.\"\n\nPresley recorded the song on July 2, 1956 during an exhaustive recording session at RCA studios in New York City. During this session he also recorded \"Hound Dog\", and \"Any Way You Want Me\". The song featured Presley's regular band of Scotty Moore on lead guitar (with Presley usually providing rhythm guitar), Bill Black on bass, D. J. Fontana on drums, and backing vocals from the Jordanaires. The producing credit was given to RCA's Stephen H. Sholes, although the studio recordings reveal that Presley produced the songs in this session by selecting the song, reworking the arrangement on piano, and insisting on 28 takes before he was satisfied with it. He also ran through 31 takes of \"Hound Dog\".\n\nThe single was released on July 13, 1956 backed with \"Hound Dog\". Within a few weeks \"Hound Dog\" had risen to #2 on the Pop charts with sales of over one million. Soon after it was overtaken by \"Don't Be Cruel\" which took #1 on all three main charts; Pop, Country, and R 'n' B. Between them, both songs remained at #1 on the Pop chart for a run of 11 weeks tying it with the 1950 Anton Karas hit \"The Third Man Theme\" and the 1951/1952 Johnnie Ray hit \"Cry\" for the longest stay at number one by a single record from late 1950 onward until 1992's smash \"End of the Road\" by Boyz II Men. By the end of 1956 it had sold in excess of four million copies. \"Billboard\" ranked it as the No. 2 song for 1956.\n\nPresley performed \"Don't Be Cruel\" during all three of his appearances on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\" in September 1956 and January 1957.\n\nIn the United Kingdom it remained a B-side but was posthumously a hit in its own right, reaching #24 in the singles chart in 1978.\n\n\"Don't Be Cruel\" went on to become Presley's biggest selling single recorded in 1956, with sales over six million by 1961. It became a regular feature of his live sets until his death in 1977, and was often coupled with \"Jailhouse Rock\" or \"(Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear\" during performances from 1969.\n\n\nAccording to author Mark Lewisohn in \"The Complete Beatles Chronicles\" (p. 362) the Beatles performed it live from about 1959 to 1961, though no recording is known to survive. The band did record a laid-back version during the massive 1969 \"Get Back\" sessions, but it has never been released. However ex-Beatles John Lennon, Ringo Starr, Pete Best and Lennon's former bandmembers the Quarrymen as well as Tony Sheridan all later recorded versions of it.\n\nMany other artists including Connie Francis (1959, Rock 'n' Roll Million Sellers), Annette Peacock, Barbara Lynn (1963, Jamie #1244 45 RPM, #93 on the Hot 100), Bill Black's Combo, Billy Swan, Devo, Cheap Trick, Daffy Duck, Merle Haggard, Jerry Lee Lewis, Neil Diamond, and Jackie Wilson have recorded the song. Presley was said to be so impressed with Wilson's version that he would later incorporate many of Wilson's mannerisms into future performances.\nDebbie Harry recorded the song for the Otis Blackwell tribute album \"Brace Yourself! A Tribute to Otis Blackwell\". A cover by American country music duo The Judds peaked at number 10 on the \"Billboard\" Hot Country Singles chart in 1987. Cheap Trick's version of this song reached No. 4 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1988.\n\nJonathan Rhys Meyers lip-synched the original version of the song in a scene from \"Elvis\", where it shows him performing at the Jacksonville Theater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209127", "title": "Sam Witwer", "text": "Sam Witwer\n\nSamuel Stewart Witwer (born October 20, 1977) is an American actor, voice actor, and musician. He is known for playing Crashdown in \"Battlestar Galactica\", Davis Bloome in \"Smallville\", Aidan Waite in \"Being Human\", Mr. Hyde in \"Once Upon a Time\", and Ben Lockwood in \"Supergirl\". He has voiced Starkiller in \"\", the Son in \"\" and Emperor Palpatine in \"Star Wars Rebels\". He has voiced Darth Maul in \"The Clone Wars\", \"Rebels\" and \"\". In 2019, he joined the cast of \"Riverdale\" as Jughead Jones' school teacher Mr. Rupert Chipping. Witwer voiced protagonist Deacon St. John in the PlayStation 4 game \"Days Gone\" released in 2019 by SIE Bend Studio.\n\nWitwer was born on October 20, 1977, and grew up in Glenview, Illinois, a small suburb outside of Chicago. He attended Glenbrook South High School, during which time he was involved in drama and theater classes, as well as being the lead singer of a high school band called \"Love Plumber\". He attended the Juilliard School for a time before moving to Los Angeles.\n\nWitwer's first on-screen credit was that of a Chicago Bulls commercial. He soon found himself in speaking roles on hit television series, such as \"ER\".\n\nWitwer's first major recurring role came in the form of portraying Lt. Crashdown on \"Battlestar Galactica\", although he has credited much of his current success to his role as Neil Perry on the Showtime series \"Dexter\". Witwer also appeared as Private Wayne Jessup in the movie \"The Mist\".\n\nFrom 2008 to 2009, Witwer was cast in season 8 of \"Smallville\" as Davis Bloome, a charming paramedic who struggles with a darkness within as he is the human camouflage of Doomsday, a character in the comics best known for being the only villain to have \"killed\" Superman. While Witwer played Davis, Doomsday was played by stuntman Dario Delacio. Witwer's performance in \"Smallville\" was incredibly well-received, and he has stated that his experience on the show had opened more opportunities for him in the future of acting. Witwer’s contract gave him the option to return in Season 9 as Zod in the event the show was renewed, though he ultimately declined. Though he considered his time on the show enjoyable and was flattered by the offer to stay on, he passed on the role as he felt it would be difficult for both the characters and audience to accept.\n\nWitwer made a cameo appearance in \"The Walking Dead\" as a dead zombie soldier in a tank in the season 1 episode \"Days Gone Bye\" which reunited him with director Frank Darabont from \"The Mist\". Witwer also made a guest appearance in \"NCIS\".\n\nFrom 2011 to 2014, Witwer starred in the North American remake of \"Being Human\". He played the lead role of vampire Aidan Waite. The show, as well as his performance, was well received and lasted 4 seasons.\n\nHe voiced Ocean Master in the animated film \"\" for the \"DC Universe Animated Original Movies\" series, replacing fellow \"Star Wars\" actor Steve Blum from \"\".\n\nIn 2016 Witwer played Edward Hyde on \"Once Upon a Time\", recurring for part of its sixth season after debuting at the end of the fifth.\n\nIn 2018, Witwer joined the main cast of The CW drama series \"Supergirl\", portraying the fourth season's main antagonist, Ben Lockwood / Agent Liberty.\n\nSam is an avid player of both pen-and-paper and video role-playing games. This is a hobby that he has engaged in for years. He has been a frequent guest on the Podcast \"Order 66\" and has expressed a love for all iterations of \"Star Wars\" role-playing games \"\" (by West End Games) to \"Star Wars Roleplaying Game\" (by Wizards of the Coast) and to the series of cross-compatible \"Star Wars\" roleplaying games by Fantasy Flight Games.\n\nSam appeared in episode 19 of Geek and Sundry's \"Tabletop\" playing the \"Dragon Age\" role-playing game, and episodes 29 and 55 of Dice Camera Action as Mordenkainen.\n\nIn January 2017, he appeared as a guest on a play-through of ScratchPad Publishing's Dusk City Outlaws, alongside Elisa Teague, Tom Lommel, Spencer Crittenden, and game designer Rodney Thompson.\n\nA lifelong \"Star Wars\" fan, Witwer provided both his voice and likeness for lead character Galen Marek / Starkiller (Darth Vader's secret apprentice) in the 2008 video game \"\" and 2010 sequel \"\". He also voiced Darth Sidious (Emperor Palpatine) in the first game, and reprised it for the games \"Disney Infinity 3.0\" and \"Battlefront\" and for the original airing of season 2 premier of \"Star Wars Rebels\" , however in 2019 the role was re-dubbed by Ian McDiarmid who portrayed Palpatine in the films and in \"Rebels\" season 4. Witwer also reprises his role as Darth Maul in \"Rebels\".\n\nFor \"\", Witwer had also vocally performed the Son in a three episode story arc (known as the Mortis trilogy) in season 3 as well as the iconic former Sith Maul in the season 4 finale episodes, four episodes of season 5, and the \"Siege of Mandalore\" arc in season 7. He also lent his voice for Maul in other projects such as the \"Star Wars: Episode I Brisk\" commercial as well as the Cartoon Network special \"\", and again for \"Star Wars Rebels\".\n\nWitwer attended \"The Clone Wars\" season 5 Red Carpet Premier in Orlando, Florida on August 24, 2012 during Celebration VI along with some of his co-stars Matt Lanter, James Arnold Taylor, Dee Bradley Baker, Tom Kane, Daniel Logan, Stephen Stanton and Ashley Eckstein, as well as Supervising Director Dave Filoni. During Celebration VI, he also had his own panel called: Sam Witwer \"The Maul Within\" on August 26, 2012. In 2013, he attended for the first time the annual event, Star Wars Weekends at Disney's Hollywood Studios in Orlando, Florida for a three-day weekend and fans praised him for his roles in \"The Force Unleashed\" games and on \"The Clone Wars\". During the live show \"Behind the Force\", Sam showed his acting skills by saying one or two lines of the characters that he's played in the \"Star Wars\" universe.\n\nWitwer has also voiced an alien as well as a stormtrooper during the siege of Maz Kanata's palace in \"\".\n\nIn 2018, Witwer reprised his portrayal as Maul and performed the voice acting role for the character in \"\", marking the sixth project for which Witwer voices Darth Maul, and the first live-action performance.\n\nIn 2020, Witwer was cast as an unidentified dark side character in the StarWarsKids.com and YouTube game show \"\", which premieres on June 3, 2020.\n\nWitwer serves as the front-man for the band The Crashtones, whose first studio album \"Colorful of the Stereo\" was released February 15, 2006. Witwer released a new album May 7, 2019 entitled \"Revenge of the Crashtones\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2209129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209129", "title": "WYAB", "text": "WYAB\n\nWYAB 103.9 FM (formerly 93.1 FM) is a radio station serving the city of Jackson, Mississippi, including Madison County, Yazoo County, Rankin County, and Hinds County. The studios of WYAB are located within the Cotton Exchange Plaza in Flora, Mississippi.\n\nWYAB originally began as WAZF-FM in 1984 as a vacant allotment in the FCC's Table of Allotments, which is essentially a community-by-community listing of all radio station channels and classes within the United States and its territories. The initial allotment was for a 3,000 watt station to broadcast on 93.7 FM to serve Yazoo City. The allotment was created by a company known as Dri-Two, Inc. to serve as a \"sister\" FM station to the now silent WAZF 1230 AM, also licensed to Yazoo City. The vacant allotment sat without an actual broadcast station occupying its place from 1984 until 1995, when Mississippi College, license holder of WHJT 93.5 FM, petitioned the FCC to have the allotment removed from the Table. The college intended to upgrade the facilities of WHJT in nearby Clinton from 3,000 watts to 6,000 watts, something that could not have been accomplished with interference from a potential station on 93.7 FM in Yazoo City. After some public interest in the retaining the allotment at Yazoo City, the FCC developed an alternate solution that could accommodate all parties. The FCC moved the vacant allotment from 93.7 FM to 93.1 FM and granted the WHJT upgrade.\n\nAfter making the frequency change in 1995, the FCC solicited interest from parties intent on building a radio station on 93.1 FM in Yazoo City. Although two parties expressed interest in the station during the frequency change stage (individual Clifton Thomas of Jackson and Dain Schult Radioactivity, Inc. of East Point, Georgia), a local third contender, Gordon (\"Jerry\") J. Lousteau, Jr., of WMGO 1370 AM in Canton was the only person that responded to the FCC's public notice, and therefore his WMGO Broadcasting Corporation was granted the license. He placed the station on the air in 1997 and it was known as WMGO-FM. The original studio was located at 1307 East Broadway Street in Yazoo City.\n\nIn April, 2003, the WMGO Broadcasting Corporation sold the station to SSR Communications, Inc., and to avoid confusion of the still operating WMGO 1370 AM in Canton, SSR changed the WMGO-FM call letters to WYAB, branding it \"B93: Central Mississippi's Oldies Leader\". Approximately one year later, SSR moved the WYAB air studio to the Cotton Exchange Plaza in Flora, a town approximately south of Yazoo City.\n\nIn January, 2005, WYAB's city of license was changed from Yazoo City to the town of Benton, a community approximately six miles east of Yazoo City. This change in city of license was necessary for WYAB to move its tower approximately ten miles south of its original location. Then, in December, 2005, WYAB began broadcast operations from its new tower site ten miles (16 km) south of Benton.\n\nIn February, 2008, WYAB received approval from the FCC to change its broadcast frequency from 93.1 MHz to 103.9 MHz and (once again) relocate its tower closer to Flora, which is where the air studio is located. Concurrent with that action, the FCC allowed WYAB to change its community of license from Benton to Flora, marking the third different community of license that the station has had in its relative short history.\n\nOn August 28, 2008, WYAB began broadcasting from a tower site approximately five miles northeast of Flora. Concurrent with this latest tower move, WYAB migrated formats from oldies to talk radio. For a short time thereafter, WYAB had still retained some ties to its oldies music origins, as it aired a weekly three-hour-long oldies show on an irregular schedule every weekend (most often dictated by its weekend sports schedule).\n\nJust five months later, on January 24, 2009, WYAB moved again to a tower three miles (5 km) southeast of Flora, the fourth different broadcast facility for the station. At the same time, WYAB announced that it would become the new flagship radio station of the Mississippi Braves minor league baseball team.\n\nOn September 13, 2010, WYAB moved once again to a new tower in Hinds County, approximately six miles northwest of Jackson. Thus, from December, 2005 to September, 2010, the station had broadcast from five different antenna locations, moving approximately closer to Jackson (when compared to the original tower location) in the process.\n\nWYAB (then WMGO-FM) holds a rather unusual distinction in the annals of radio station transaction history. In April 2002, then-owner Jerry Lousteau placed the radio station up for sale on eBay, gaining national attention within the broadcast industry as one of the first owners to attempt to sell a radio station via an Internet auction. The purchase price was listed at $210,000.00, with the listing reading:\n\"Name your own format. Be your own boss. You are bidding on the assets of the station, including tower, antenna, and studios. This is not a toy. Covers over 100,000 people!\"\nUltimately, the listing for WMGO-FM garnered no qualified bidders. SSR Communications, Inc. purchased the station from Mr. Lousteau after the extensive press coverage within broadcast trade publications regarding the attempted eBay sale.\n\nWhen the station was put on the air in 1997, it had broadcast oldies hits from the 1950s, 1960s, and 1970s. In August, 2008, the station migrated to a talk radio format, featuring personalities such as Michael Savage, Jim Thorn, Clark Howard, Kim Wade, Doctor Livingston, Mike Madison, James Tulp, Phil Valentine, Bill Handel, and Leo Laporte.\n\nWYAB is the \"flagship\" home for the Mississippi Braves, as well as the Tri County Academy football, boy's and girls basketball, and baseball teams. WYAB also serves Madison Central High School with select live broadcasts of its boy's and girls basketball games, as well as its baseball team.\n\nWYAB is also the sole local affiliate of Louisiana State University athletics.\n\nWYAB airs many local and community-oriented programs as well numerous public affairs programming, and special events and news reporting.\n\nCurrently, WYAB broadcasts on 103.9 FM from a site six miles (10 km) northwest of Jackson with 5,400 watts of effective radiated power. The tower is located on F.O.A. Road in Jackson, Mississippi. Full power broadcasts began at 2:45 p.m. on September 13, 2010. The tower is the fifth broadcast site that the station has had over the course of its (relatively short) history. The population served within WYAB's 60 dBu (1.0 mV/m) coverage area is approximately 384,354 persons.\n\nFrom January, 2009, until September, 2010, WYAB had broadcast on a high tower three miles (5 km) southeast of Flora, on top of Mount Leopard.\n\nFrom August, 2008, until January, 2009, WYAB's broadcasts were from a high tower five miles (8 km) northeast of Flora. Tower construction started on August 20, 2008 with broadcast operations commencing at 5:35 a.m. on August 28, 2008. The first song played was the \"Theme from Star Trek, the Original Series\".\n\nFrom December, 2005, until August, 2008, WYAB had broadcast on 93.1 FM from a high tower nine miles (14 km) north of Flora with the same power level. Tower construction started in November 2005 with broadcast operations commencing at 8:15 p.m. on December 13, 2005. The first song played was \"Georgia On My Mind\", as performed by Ray Charles. At the time, the population served within WYAB's 60 dBu (1.0 mV/m) coverage area was approximately 161,000 persons. The tower still stands today, presently unoccupied.\n\nPrior to December, 2005, WYAB's broadcast tower facility was located at a site near Benton. The former high WYAB tower was dismantled in December 2006 after sitting unused for approximately one year.\n\nAll four towers were designed, manufactured, erected, or maintained by the J. Crow Towerworks company of Philadelphia, Mississippi.\n\nWYAB's primary audience is between the ages of 45 and 64, with men making up a slight majority of the listeners. During certain dayparts, such as during the Clark Howard Show, however, WYAB's audience is skewed heavily in favor of women 25-64. WYAB also broadcasts numerous sports teams including the Mississippi Braves, which attract a large male audience.\n\nWYAB's current staff members:\n\n"}
{"id": "2209135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209135", "title": "Mostaghim", "text": "Mostaghim\n\nThe Mostaghim family is one of the prominent Iranian families.\n\nThe family began before the Qajar dynasty and has been one of the most successful families in Iran. After the fall of the Qajars, they relocated to the holy city of Ghom, 40 kilometers south of Tehran, where they managed to take over the market and own many villages. Their close ties to political leaders of the Pahlavi regime and also religious leaders of Ghom made them one of the few families to survive the Islamic Revolution with little to no damage. After the revolution, the family has partly relocated to northern parts of Tehran as the place of residence.\n\nThey are known as a moderate religious family with keen interests in Iranian culture. Having a hierarchical structure, the oldest member of the family is also the head of the family who is consulted in all business matters. Mohammad Mostaghim, a world-renowned neurosurgeon, who is rumored to be in line as the next head of the family, currently resides in Canada with his family. Currently, the Mostaghim family owns and operates the Zafran and Persian-carpet industry along with close ties to flour-producing companies and lucrative businesses in Tehran's Grand Bazaar in Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209144", "title": "Rock &amp; Roll Rebels", "text": "Rock &amp; Roll Rebels\n\nRock & Roll Rebels is an album by John Kay and Steppenwolf. It was released in 1987, as Qwil Catalog # NU 1560. The LP was distributed by Dominion Entertainment, Inc., and the CD and cassette were distributed by K-tel International (USA), Inc. \n\nIt was reissued in 1996 as Feed the Fire, in a remixed form on the Winter Harvest label. The reissue did not include \"Turn Out The Lights\" and \"Replace The Face,\" but added two new songs, \"Feed The Fire\" and \"Bad Attitude.\"\n\n\n\n\nAlbum – Billboard (United States)\n"}
{"id": "2209145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209145", "title": "Draped Bust dollar", "text": "Draped Bust dollar\n\nThe Draped Bust dollar is a United States dollar coin minted from 1795 to 1803, and was reproduced, dated 1804, into the 1850s. The design succeeded the Flowing Hair dollar, which began mintage in 1794 and was the first silver dollar struck by the United States Mint. The designer is unknown, though the distinction is usually credited to artist Gilbert Stuart. The model is also unknown, though Ann Willing Bingham has been suggested.\n\nIn October 1795, newly appointed Mint Director Elias Boudinot ordered that the legal fineness of 0.892 (89.2%) silver be used for the dollar rather than the unauthorized fineness of 0.900 (90%) silver that had been used since the denomination was first minted in 1794. Due largely to a decrease in the amount of silver deposited at the Philadelphia Mint, coinage of silver dollars declined throughout the latter years of the 18th century. In 1804, coinage of silver dollars was halted; the last date used during regular mint production was 1803.\n\nIn 1834, silver dollar production was temporarily restarted to supply a diplomatic mission to Asia with a special set of proof coins. Officials mistakenly believed that dollars had last been minted with the date 1804, prompting them to use that date rather than the date in which the coins were actually struck. A limited number of 1804 dollars were struck by the Mint in later years, and they remain rare and valuable.\n\nCoinage began on the first United States silver dollar, known as the Flowing Hair dollar, in 1794 following the construction and staffing of the Philadelphia Mint. The Coinage Act of 1792 called for the silver coinage to be struck in an alloy consisting of 89.2% silver and 10.8% copper. However, Mint officials were reluctant to strike coins with the unusual fineness, so it was decided to strike them in an unauthorized alloy of 90% silver instead. This caused depositors of silver to lose money when their metal was coined. During the second year of production of the Flowing Hair dollar, it was decided that the denomination would be redesigned. It is unknown what prompted this change or who suggested it, though numismatic historian R.W. Julian speculates that Henry William de Saussure, who was named Director of the Mint on July 9, 1795, may have suggested it, as he had stated a redesign of the American coinage as one of his goals before taking office. It is also possible that the Flowing Hair design was discontinued owing to much public disapproval.\n\nThough the designer of the coin is unknown, artist Gilbert Stuart is widely acknowledged to have been its creator; Mint Director James Ross Snowden began researching the early history of the United States Mint and its coinage in the 1850s, during which time he interviewed descendants of Stuart who claimed that their ancestor was the designer. It has been suggested that Philadelphia socialite Ann Willing Bingham posed as the model for the coin. Several sketches were approved by Mint engraver Robert Scot and de Saussure and sent to President George Washington and Secretary of State Thomas Jefferson to gain their approval.\n\nAfter approval was received, the designs were sent to artist John Eckstein to be rendered into plaster models; during that time, plaster models were used as a guide to cutting the dies, which was done by hand. Eckstein, who was dismissed by Walter Breen as a \"local artistic hack\" and described by a contemporary artist as a \"thorough-going drudge\" due to his willingness to carry out most painting or sculptural tasks at the request of clients, was paid thirty dollars for his work preparing models for both the obverse Liberty and reverse eagle and wreath. After the plaster models were created, the engravers of the Philadelphia Mint (including Scot) began creating hubs that would be used to make dies for the new coins.\n\nIt is unknown exactly when production of the new design began, as precise records relating to design were not kept at that time. R.W. Julian, however, places the beginning of production in either late September or early October 1795, while Taxay asserts that the first new silver dollars were struck in October. In September 1795, de Saussure wrote his resignation letter to President Washington. In his letter, de Saussure mentioned the unauthorized silver standard and suggested that Congress be urged to make the standard official, but this was not done. In response to de Saussure's letter, Washington expressed his displeasure in the resignation, stating that he had viewed de Saussure's tenure with \"entire satisfaction\". As de Saussure's resignation would not take effect until October, the president was given time to select a replacement.\n\nThe person chosen to fill the position was statesman and former congressman Elias Boudinot. Upon assuming his duties at the Mint on October 28, Boudinot was informed of the silver standard that had been used since the first official silver coins were struck. He immediately ordered that this practice be ceased and that coinage would begin in the 89.2% fineness approved by the Coinage Act of 1792. The total production of 1795 dollars (including both the Flowing Hair and Draped Bust types) totalled 203,033. It is estimated that approximately 42,000 dollars were struck bearing the Draped Bust design. Boudinot soon ordered that production of minor denominations be increased. Later, assayer Albian Cox died suddenly from a stroke in his home on November 27, 1795, leaving the vital post of assayer vacant. This, together with Boudinot's increased focus on smaller denominations, as well as a lull in private bullion deposits (the fledgling Mint's only source of bullion), caused a decrease in silver dollar production in 1796. The total mintage for 1796 was 79,920, which amounts to an approximate 62% reduction from the previous year's total.\n\nBullion deposits continued to decline, and in 1797, silver dollar production reached the lowest point since 1794 with a mintage of just 7,776 pieces. During this time, silver deposits declined to such an extent that Thomas Jefferson personally deposited 300 Spanish dollars in June 1797. In April 1797, an agreement was reached between the Mint and the Bank of the United States. The Bank agreed to supply the Mint with foreign silver on the condition that the Bank would receive their deposits back in silver dollars. The Mint was closed between August and November 1797 due to the annual yellow fever epidemic in Philadelphia; that year's epidemic took the life of the Mint's treasurer, Dr. Nicholas Way. In November 1797, the Bank deposited approximately $30,000 worth of French silver. In early 1798, the reverse was changed from the small, perched eagle to a heraldic eagle similar to that depicted on the Great Seal of the United States. The agreement reached with the Bank of the United States along with other bullion depositors (including Boudinot) led to an increase in the number of silver dollars coined; mintage for both the small and heraldic eagle types totalled 327,536. Mintage numbers for the dollar remained high through 1799, with 423,515 struck that year.\n\nToward the end of the 18th century, many of the silver dollars produced by the Mint were shipped to and circulated or melted in China in order to satisfy the great demand for silver bullion in that nation. In 1800, silver deposits once again began to decline, and the total silver dollar output for that year was 220,920. In 1801, following complaints from the public and members of Congress regarding the lack of small change in circulation, Boudinot began requesting that silver depositors receive smaller denominations rather than the routinely requested silver dollars, in an effort to supply the nation with more small change. Production dropped to 54,454 silver dollars in 1801 and 41,650 in 1802, after Boudinot was able to convince many depositors to accept their silver in the form of small denominations. Although silver bullion deposits at the Mint had increased, Boudinot attempted to end silver dollar production in 1803, favoring half dollars instead. Mintage of the 1803 dollar continued until March 1804, when production of silver dollars ceased entirely. In total, 85,634 dollars dated 1803 were struck. Following a formal request from the Bank of the United States, Secretary of State James Madison officially suspended silver dollar and gold eagle production in 1806, although minting of both had ended two years earlier.\n\nIn 1831, Mint Director Samuel Moore filed a request through the Treasury asking president Andrew Jackson to once again allow the coinage of silver dollars; the request was approved on April 18. In 1834, Edmund Roberts was selected as an American commercial representative to Asia, including the kingdoms of Muscat and Siam. Roberts recommended that the dignitaries be given a set of proof coins. The State Department ordered two sets of \"specimens of each kind <nowiki>[of coins]</nowiki> now in use, whether of gold, silver, or copper\". Though the minting of dollars had been approved in 1831, none had been struck since 1804. After consulting with Chief Coiner Adam Eckfeldt (who had worked at the Mint since its opening in 1792), Moore determined that the last silver dollars struck were dated 1804. Unknown to either of them, the last production in March 1804 was actually dated 1803. Since they believed that the last striking was dated 1804, it was decided to strike the presentation pieces with that date as well. It is unknown why the current date was not used, but R.W. Julian suggests that this was done to prevent coin collectors from being angered over the fact that they would be unable to obtain the newly dated coins.\n\nThe first two 1804 dollars (as well as the other coins for the sets) were struck in November 1834. Soon, Roberts' trip was expanded to Indo-China (then known as Annam) and Japan, so two additional sets were struck. The pieces struck under the auspices of the Mint are known as Class I 1804 dollars, and eight of that type are known to exist today. Roberts left for his trip in April 1835, and he presented one set each to the Sultan of Muscat and the King of Siam. The gift to the Sultan of Muscat was part of an exchange of diplomatic gifts that resulted in the Sultan presenting the Washington Zoo with a full-grown lion and lioness. Roberts fell ill in Bangkok and was taken to Macao, where he died in June 1835. Following Roberts' death, the remaining two sets were returned to the Mint without being presented to the dignitaries.\n\nMost coin collectors became aware of the 1804 dollar in 1842, when Jacob R. Eckfeldt (son of Adam Eckfeldt) and William E. Du Bois published a book entitled \"A Manual of Gold and Silver Coins of All Nations, Struck Within the Past Century\". In the volume, several coins from the Mint's coin cabinet, including an 1804 dollar, were reproduced by tracing a pantograph stylus over an electrotype of the coins. In May 1843, numismatist Matthew A. Stickney was able to obtain an 1804 dollar from the Mint's coin cabinet by trading a rare pre-federal United States gold coin. Due to an increase in the demand for rare coins, Mint officials, including Director Snowden, began minting an increasing number of coin restrikes in the 1850s. Several 1804 dollars were struck, and some were sold for personal profit on the part of Mint officials. When he discovered this, Snowden bought back several of the coins. One such coin, which Snowden later added to the Mint cabinet, was struck over an 1857 shooting thaler and became known as Class II, the only such piece of that type known to exist today. Six pieces with edge lettering applied after striking became known as Class III dollars.\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, the 1804 dollar had become the most famous and widely discussed of all American coins. In 1867, one of the original 1804 dollars was sold at auction for $750 ($ today). Seven years later, on November 27, 1874, a specimen sold for $700 ($ today). In the early 20th century, coin dealer B. Max Mehl began marketing the 1804 dollar as the \"King of American Coins\". The coins continued to gain popularity throughout the 20th century, and the price reached an all-time high in 1999, when an example graded Proof-68 was sold at auction for $4,140,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209151", "title": "Ephraim Shay", "text": "Ephraim Shay\n\nEphraim Shay (July 17, 1839 – April 19, 1916) was an American merchant, entrepreneur and self-taught railroad engineer who worked in the state of Michigan. He designed the first Shay locomotive and patented the type. He licensed it for manufacture through what became known as Lima Locomotive Works in Ohio; from 1882 to 1892 some 300 locomotives of this type were sold.\n\nEphraim Shay was born on July 17, 1839, in Sherman Township, Huron County, Ohio. His parents were James and Phoebe (Probasco) Shay, whose families went back to colonial New York. His parents were of majority-English descent, with some Dutch and Polish ancestry. His mother's paternal line descended from immigrant George (Jurriaen) Probatski, who was from Breslau, Silesia (now Wroclaw, Poland). In 1654 Probatski went to the Netherlands and immigrated with some Dutch via Amsterdam and Brazil to New Netherland (New York). Over time, through Dutch and English marriages and variations, the name in the United States evolved to Probasco, probably within the first few generations.\n\nIn 1861, Shay moved as a young man of 22 with family to Muir, Michigan. Shortly after he enlisted in Company D, 8th Missouri Volunteer Infantry. In his American Civil War diary, Shay wrote, \"Received marching orders. Quite a coincidence; on the day I am 22 years old I start on my first expedition to defend my country's honor and flag.\" Shay served in the Western Theatre of the war, under General William Tecumseh Sherman. He was honorably discharged in 1864, and returned to Ohio to marry.\n\nShay married his sweetheart Jane Henderson on July 26 of that year. The young couple moved to Ionia County, Michigan, to be near his family members in Portland, Lyons, Muir, and Sebewa. In 1870 they moved to Sunfield, Michigan, where Shay operated a steam sawmill. Their son, Lette, was born there on January 26, 1870.\n\nAfter 1873, the Shay family moved to Haring, Michigan, where Shay established a general store and sawmill, basics in a frontier town. In 1876 or 1877, he had the idea to use a locomotive to haul logs. He experimented with using maple strips on pine rails, to build rapid paths for a locomotive to travel in the forests, and developed the Shay locomotive. Shay started working with Lima Machine Works (later Lima Locomotive Works) in Lima, Ohio, licensing them to manufacture this model.\n\nIn 1880, the first Shay Locomotive was shipped to a customer in Grand Rapids, Michigan, a center of logging on the Michigan peninsula. In 1881, Shay started filing patents for his works. William E. Woodard assisted Lima with improving the design of the engine. Lima built four Shay locomotives in 1881, and 37 Shays in 1883. In 1884, Lima had a 34-page catalog, featuring five models of Shay Locomotives. From 1882 to 1892, Lima sold some 300 of the Shay locomotives. By the late 1890s, Shay Locomotives were shipped around the world.\n\nIn 1888, Shay and his family moved to Harbor Springs, Michigan on Little Traverse Bay. There, he designed and built in about 1892 what is now known as the Shay Hexagon House, a hexagonal-shaped structure. It has four wings opening off the central core and a two-story tower on top. The house has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places. The interior and exterior walls were stamped steel, an unusual use of this relatively new product.\n\nIn 1891, Shay built an all-steel boat that was 40 feet long and a beam of 6 feet, named the \"Aha.\" Remains of the \"Aha\" have been returned to Harbor Springs and are preserved. Shay also designed and operated a private water works for the town of Harbor Springs. The use of steel for large lake freighters, developed in this period, was an important innovation to shipping on the Great Lakes.\n\nShay established a railroad, the Harbor Springs Railway (nicknamed the \"Hemlock Central\"), chartered in 1902. It was dissolved in 1912. Three locomotives of Shay's design were the only motive power. The railway primarily hauled lumber, but was also used for sightseeing. Shay also made sleds with maple runners as Christmas gifts for local children, more than 400 sleds in total.\n\nShay's wife Jane died on July 24, 1912. He died on April 19, 1916. He is buried in the Lakeview Cemetery in Harbor Springs.\n\nThe Harbor Springs Area Historical Society annually sponsors the \"Shay Days\" festival at Hexagon House, on a weekend close to Shay's birthday. In 2005, the festival was held July 15, July 16, and July 17.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209160", "title": "Student boilersuit", "text": "Student boilersuit\n\nStudent boilersuit (Swedish studentoverall or studenthalare, Finnish opiskelijahaalari, Canadian Flightsuit \"or Coveralls or redsuits\") are boilersuits widely used for specific events at universities and polytechnics in Sweden, Finland, and Canada. Typically, the suits are procured by the student associations of faculties or programmes. At the major Swedish universities (like Lund or Uppsala) the use of boilersuits is limited to engineering students, but their use has spread to students in other fields at some of the smaller university colleges. In Finland, boilersuits have also been foremost identified with engineering students, but see extensive use in all of the student organizations of Finnish institutions of higher learning, such as University of Helsinki and Aalto University.\n\nStudent coveralls have become one of the most conspicuous academic traditions at some educational institutions, despite its short history. The use of overalls started in the Royal Institute of Technology in the late 1960s, and spread around Sweden and Finland during the 1970s. Apparently protective clothing was needed in excursions to companies, which soon led to use at parties as a way to identify students of different fields and organizations. The height of the use of the overall was reached in the late 1990s. Due to quick rise in popularity, most student organizations now offer the students a chance to purchase their own overalls during the freshman year. Since the 1990s, the custom has remained popular although perhaps in slight decline as the overalls are sometimes viewed to signal a lifestyle bordering on alcoholism and drunken misbehavior, up to the point where some pubs and clubs even choose to ban the use of overall uniforms.\n\nThese boilersuits are not only seen in Europe. At McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, the McMaster Engineering faculty has had a group of representatives clad in red coveralls known as 'redsuits' for decades. Other faculties, societies and student residences have also adopted the suits as a form of identification during McMaster's Welcome Week. At University of Toronto in Toronto, Ontario, the Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering has a distinct group of student who wear coveralls to demonstrate their school spirit. Numerous people throughout the city and campus recognize students in these coveralls as U of T engineers and members of Skule (TM). The University of Waterloo Engineering Students in Waterloo, Ontario, are also identified by their navy blue or grey coveralls, often decorated with significant patches from various interests and activities the student has accomplished over their time at school. Ottawa, Ontario's Carleton University has representatives in dark blue Air Force style coveralls, aptly named the \"flightsuits\". Likewise, Western University in London, Ontario awards coveralls, nicknamed 'covies,' to student leaders within the Faculty of Engineering (in grey) and Medway-Sydenham Hall (in black).\n\nUnlike coveralls generally, the student boilersuit isn't used for work, but mostly for parties. However, as the coveralls are meant to endure years of abuse, the wearer often being under the influence of alcohol, the coveralls are made of high quality fabric and usually at least somewhat waterproof. Practical additions such as zippered pockets of various sizes and belt loops are added by the manufacturer, and as a part of the manufacturing process the coveralls are sometimes printed with the particular student organization's logo and ads of the various sponsoring companies, ranging from small local enterprises to national divisions of multinational corporations. Often, the large corporations choose to sponsor the suits as a part of their recruitment campaign, ensuring that they have the attention of the graduating students when they enter the working life.\nThe colour of the boilersuits is usually determined by the faculty or programme, which — the subjects being many and colours few — leads to quite spectacular colour combinations such as purple, turquoise or pink. Multicolored variants exist, but typically the suits are of one color. As it is customary to personalize the suits, they are almost invariably decorated with various badges, souvenirs and inexpensive gadgets. Occasionally a boilersuit will tell of its owner's interests, political views, personal history and even military experience. The time spent as a student can be seen from the amount of decorations one has added to his boilersuit, as all students start with blank boilersuits. There's also a practice of swapping a part of the suit with another person, typically with a partner or a close friend. Badges are also readily swapped, especially amongst friends who are of different organizations. Rarity of a certain badge can be considered a bonus.\n\nCertain traditions relating to the use of boilersuits exist. Typically, a new student will be given permission to use their boilersuit during the later half of their first academic year, often after a certain number of \"freshman points\" have been collected by participating in various social events like parties and contests held by the organizations. During the first academic spring, the various engineering student organizations tend to host events during which the new students are officially taken as a members of their organization. During these events, the students often volunteer to go through a minor rite that often includes diving into a pool, lake or river with their newly issued boilersuits as a \"student baptism\". Typically in Finland these events are held around the largest student holiday of May 1 or Vappu, when thousands of students gather outdoors to celebrate. Lesser traditions can dictate that a student should sew his badges onto his boilersuit by hand, and that the boilersuit should not be cleaned except either by swimming in the suit or by hosing it down.\nIn some schools, two students who are dating exchange the overalls leg part with one another to show that they are taken. In Finland, it is traditional that only engineering students wear their suits as overalls, while non-engineers should wear them as pants, tying the arms of the suit as a belt of sorts.\n\nThe boilersuit may have local names at individual universities. The Swedish term is simply \"overall\" or \"studentoverall\", also \"studenthalare\", but it is sometimes nicknamed \"ovve\". In Finland, the Finnish word for overall is \"haalarit\" and the Finland Swedish word is \"halare\". The Canadians refer to them differently depending on the university or area. They are called \"flightsuits\" by Ontario's Carleton University, \"redsuits\" by McMaster University and \"coveralls\" by Western University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209161", "title": "Donald Burrows", "text": "Donald Burrows\n\nDonald Burrows may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209162", "title": "Nier Prize", "text": "Nier Prize\n\nThe Nier Prize is named after Alfred O. C. Nier. It is awarded annually by the Meteoritical Society and recognizes outstanding research in meteoritics and closely allied fields by young scientists.\nRecipients must be under 35 years old at the end of the calendar year in which they are selected. The Leonard Medal Committee recommends to the Council candidates for the Nier Prize.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209172", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209172", "title": "Overboard (1987 film)", "text": "Overboard (1987 film)\n\nOverboard is a 1987 American romantic comedy film directed by Garry Marshall, written by Leslie Dixon, starring Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell, and produced by Roddy McDowall, who also co-stars. The film's soundtrack was composed by Alan Silvestri. \nAlthough it opened to mixed reviews and was a box office disappointment, \"Overboard\" has become a cult film and has been remade twice. In 1992, it was adapted in the Indian film Ek Ladka Ek Ladki, in 2006, it was adapted into the South Korean television series \"Couple or Trouble\" and in 2018 it was remade with Anna Faris and Eugenio Derbez.\n\nHeiress Joanna Stayton is accustomed to a wealthy life with her husband, Grant Stayton III. While waiting for their yacht to be repaired in the rural hamlet of Elk Cove, Oregon, she hires local carpenter Dean Proffitt to remodel her closet. He puts up with her rude and condescending attitude, and produces quality work, which is dismissed by her because he used oak instead of cedar, despite her not having specifically requested this at the start.\n\nHe agrees to redo the closet, if he is paid for the work he has already done. She refuses to pay and they have an argument, during which he notes that she is inventing things to complain about because her life is so pampered and boring. This is overheard by the yacht's crew on the intercom, who applaud him for telling her off. Their argument concludes with her pushing him off the yacht and throwing his tools into the ocean.\n\nThat night, as the yacht sails away, Joanna goes on deck to retrieve her wedding ring; she suddenly loses her balance and falls overboard. The next day, a story is aired on the local TV news about her having been picked out of the water by a garbage scow. She is suffering from amnesia, and is taken to the local hospital, where no one can determine her identity. Once Grant discovers that she has fallen overboard, he sails back to retrieve her. After seeing her mental state and her lashing out at hospital employees, he denies knowing her, and returns to the yacht to embark on a spree of parties with younger women.\n\nAfter seeing her story on the news, Dean, who is a widower living in squalor with four sons, seeks revenge by encouraging Joanna to work off her unpaid bill. Despite pleas from his best friend, Billy, not to follow through on his impulse, he goes to the hospital and tells her that she is Annie, his wife of thirteen years and the mother of his four sons. She reluctantly goes home with him and is appalled by his residence.\n\nJoanna initially has difficulty dealing with Dean's sons and the heavy load of chores, but she soon adapts. As she masters her responsibilities, she learns about the boys' school and family issues, and that Dean is secretly working two jobs to pay bills. She falls in love with him and develops motherly love toward his sons, and starts streamlining the money problems with more efficient budgeting. Joanna also convinces Dean to be a father to his sons rather than simply be their friend, as his sons are doing poorly in school and struggle with literacy, yet he simply brushes these issues aside rather than fix them.\n\nJoanna makes Dean's dream come true by helping him design a miniature golf course. Although he has also fallen in love with her, he does not tell her the truth about her real identity for fear that she will leave. Billy, who created doctored photos of the couple to cement the alibi of their marriage, tells Dean that his family needs Joanna.\n\nJoanna's mother, Edith, learns that Grant abandoned Joanna at the hospital and has been lying to her about her daughter's condition. After Edith threatens Grant (who is in Los Angeles) that she will hire mercenaries to hunt him down, he reluctantly ends the partying and returns to Elk Cove to retrieve Joanna, whose memory is instantaneously restored upon seeing him. She is shocked and hurt when she realizes that Dean lied and has been using her for months, and returns with Grant to their yacht, which is headed for New York.\n\nJoanna now finds her old lifestyle boring and pretentious. She is particularly offended by how rude and haughtily Grant and Edith treat the boat staff. She apologizes to her butler, Andrew, for her spiteful treatment of him over the years. He then helps Joanna to realize how happy she was with Dean and his sons. Joanna commandeers the yacht and turns back towards Elk Cove. The next morning when Grant finds out that Joanna loves Dean and wants to return back to the life she had before regaining her memory, Grant becomes insane and takes charge of the boat; Joanna reveals she doesn't love him anymore, and Grant reveals that he purposely abandoned her and had numerous affairs with other women in her absence. Dean and the boys arrive on a Coast Guard boat with the intention of rescuing Joanna, but they are soon called away due to a sighting of salmon poachers. Dean grabs a life jacket and dives into the water towards the yacht and Joanna does likewise before letting Andrew know to tell her mother that she'll give her a phone call. Grant, now having a mental breakdown, furiously takes aim at her with a bow and arrow, only to be purposely booted overboard into the water by Andrew, who then gives his two weeks notice. After reuniting, Joanna tells Dean that all of the money and the yacht is actually hers, not Grant's. As the boys eagerly make out their Christmas lists, Dean asks Joanna what he could possibly give her that she doesn't already have. Joanna smiles and replies, \"A little girl.\" The film ends with Dean and Joanna kissing as the boat sails off into the sunset.\n\nThe film made $1.9 million in its first weekend, $2.9 million in its second (+34%) and $3.9 million in its third (+54%), totaling $26.7 million by the end of its run.\n\nOn review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 42% based on 31 reviews, with an average rating of 5.05/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Goldie Hawn and Kurt Russell's comedic chops elevate waterlogged material, but not even their buoyant chemistry can keep \"Overboard\"'s creepy concept afloat\". On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 53 out of 100, based on 13 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews.\" Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\n\"Variety\" praised Hawn's performance, but called the film \"an uninspiring, unsophisticated attempt at an updated screwball comedy that is brought down by plodding script and a handful of too broadly drawn characters.\" Rita Kempley of \"The Washington Post\" called it \"a deeply banal farce\" with \"one-dimensional characters, a good long look at her buttocks and lots of pathetic sex jokes.\" Roger Ebert liked it; while calling it predictable, he wrote: \"the things that make it special, however, are the genuine charm, wit and warm energy generated by the entire cast and director Garry Marshall.\" The \"Los Angeles Times\"' review of it read: \"The film tries to mix the two 1930s movie comedy strains: screwball romance and populist fable. But there's something nerveless and thin about it. Hawn and Russell are good, but their scenes together have a calculated spontaneity—overcute, obvious.\"\n\nThe film has gone on to be considered a cult classic.\n\nA reimagined film of the same name, starring Anna Faris and Eugenio Derbez, was released on May 4, 2018. The main roles are reversed from the 1987 original. Derbez portrays a wealthy man who falls off of his yacht and is found by Faris' character, a single mother who convinces him that he is her husband.\n\nA loose adaptation of \"Overboard\" is the 1992 Hindi film \"Ek Ladka Ek Ladki\", directed by Vijay Sadanah and starring Salman Khan and Neelam Kothari.\n\nThe 1997 Malayalam film \"Mayaponman\" is another loose adaptation.\n\nThe 2006 South Korean television show \"Couple or Trouble\", starring Han Ye-seul and Oh Ji-ho and directed by Kim Sang Ho, is also a loose adaptation of the film.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209181", "title": "British Rail Class 465", "text": "British Rail Class 465\n\nThe British Rail Class 465 \"Networker\" is a class of 147 electric multiple units built by Metro-Cammell, British Rail Engineering Limited (BREL) and ABB Rail between 1991 and 1994. They were operated by Network SouthEast until 1997, and then by Connex South Eastern until 2003, South Eastern Trains until 2006 and Southeastern to the present day.\n\nThe Network SouthEast sector of British Rail began the planning for the development of the Class 465 \"Networker\" in 1988, and invited a tender for 710 of the units to be built. The Class 465 was introduced in order to replace the 41-year-old Class 415 (4EPB) slam-door EMUs.\n\nThe first was delivered in December 1991 and the last in April 1995. As part of the privatisation of British Rail, the 97 465/0 and 465/1s were sold to Eversholt Rail Group and the 50 Class 465/2s to Angel Trains.\n\nAll trains were originally supplied in Network SouthEast livery and branded \"Kent Link Networker\". They are mostly used on suburban routes out of London Victoria, Charing Cross, Blackfriars and Cannon Street to destinations in South London and Kent.\n\nBoth manufacturers' units look similar in design; the major differences are the lack of aircraft-style overhead air vents on those produced by Metro-Cammell (465/2), and the BREL (465/0) and ABB (465/1) units also feature slightly different dot matrix displays on the front and rear of the train to show the route number and destination, they also have different traction motors with the BREL units having Brush Traction motors whilst the Metro Cammell units have their own traction motors. There are other minor differences in door switches and audible chimes, window shapes and exterior panelling. The maximum speed of a Class 465 \"Networker\" is and they are designed only for 750 V DC third rail operation. A Solid State Traction Converter package controls 3-phase AC Traction motors, which allows for Rheostatic or Regenerative Dynamic braking. Primary braking system is electro-pneumatically actuated disc brakes, which is blended with the Dynamic brakes. Tachometers on every axle of the unit provide for Wheel Slip/Slide Protection.\n\nPlans were drawn up in 2007 to improve reliability of the BREL and ABB units (Class 465/0 and 465/1) by the installation of new traction equipment. The new package was developed by Hitachi Rail. It was retrofitted across all 97 465/0 and 465/1s trains over the course of 2009/2010. Brush Traction, the supplier/manufacturer of the original traction equipment, worked as consultants to assist in retro-fitting the new equipment.\n\nIn 2005, the first 34 465/2 units (465201-465234) were given an extensive refurbishment at Doncaster Works. This included new interior panelling, new flooring, new lighting, new seat moquette (in the same grey and blue design as on the Class 375 Electrostars) and the addition of a new first class seating area at the front and rear of the units, amongst other changes. This was done to allow them to be transferred to outer-suburban routes alongside the Class 375s. They would be replaced on inner suburban services by Class 376s. They were reclassified as a separate sub-fleet designated 465/9 (465901–465934) and replaced the remaining Class 423 slam-door stock. The last in Network SouthEast livery was repainted in September 2007.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2012, all Class 465/0 and 465/1s had an overhaul by RailCare of door systems, air systems, couplings and trailer bogies.\n\nOn 2 March 2018, Class 465 units formed some of the trains that became stranded in the area due to inclement weather affecting conductor rails. Units 465003 and 465164 were amongst the nine involved.\n"}
{"id": "2209183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209183", "title": "Mei-Ting Sun", "text": "Mei-Ting Sun\n\nMei-Ting Sun (), born 14 March 1981, is a classical pianist.\n\nA native of Shanghai, Sun arrived in New York at the age of nine. He entered the Professional Children's School and the Mannes College of Music, where he studied ear training with Marie Powers, theory with Robert Cuckson, and piano with Edward Aldwell. He has since received his bachelor's and master's degrees from the Mannes College of Music. Currently, he is a C.V. Starr Doctoral Fellow at the Juilliard School, studying with Robert McDonald.\n\nSun was the first prize winner of the 7th National Chopin Piano Competition of the U.S in 2005 and the first International Piano-e-Competition in 2002. Named one of the Musicians of the Year 1996 by the \"Village Voice\" at age 15, the now 37-year-old pianist has performed in many of New York's concert halls, including Alice Tully Hall, where his performance of Ravel's Concerto in G was praised by The \"New York Times\" as a \"stunningly fluid reading.\"\n\nSun has been featured several times on WQXR Classical Radio as part of the “Young Artist Showcase” program and on NPR as part of the “Performance Today” program. He has been heard in recital in much of the United States, Japan, China, France, Spain and Italy. Recent appearances include concert tours of Spain, China, and Japan, and concerto engagements with the Richmond and Winnipeg Symphonies, the National Spanish Orchestra, the Macau Orchestra, and the Hong Kong Sinfonietta. Upcoming engagements include a twenty concert-tour of the United States and abroad sponsored by the Chopin Foundation of the United States.\n\nSun is also highly involved in classical music education and outreach. His latest effort, at whitekeys.com, garnered major media attention shortly after its grand opening, and his website has become a model for other musicians' websites.\n\nSun is a Yamaha Artist.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209184", "title": "FÉLIN", "text": "FÉLIN\n\nFÉLIN (\"Fantassin à Équipement et Liaisons Intégrés\", Integrated Infantryman Equipment and Communications) is the name for the French infantry combat system developed by Safran Electronics & Defense.\n\nIt combines a modified FAMAS rifle with a host of other electronics, clothing, pouches, and body armour. The helmet is an integral SPECTRA helmet fitted with real-time positioning and information system, and with light amplifiers for night vision.\nPower sources will be made of two rechargeable Li-ion batteries.\n\nThe €1.1bn (FY2012) project was to see 22,588 units delivered between 2010 and 2015, at a unit cost of €38,000 (€49,000 including development costs). The system entered service in late 2011, when 300 were deployed to Afghanistan.\n\nBetween 1997 and 2000, the Félin programme was in its demonstration phase, focusing primarily on: communications, observation (day and night, by trying to increase range), protection (detectability: visual, acoustic and electromagnetic, protection against attack), power/energy and mobility (system weight, ergonomics, location and navigation aid). \n\nDuring the first half of 2000, several operational trials were conducted, notably engagements between groups (one equipped with some of the Félin features, one without). The trials were successful, as the group equipped with the new features was significantly more efficient, even though it was carrying earlier versions of the system which had not been optimised in weight.\n\nIn 2001, the definition phase of the programme started. Engineering teams re-thought every step and system, putting aside all the previously tested demonstrators and updating the systems to the state of the art of their respective technologies.\n\nMeanwhile, a bidding started for French and European industrial producers.\n\nAfter several years of development and trials, the programme is now reaching completion. The first orders have been signed and the first deliveries should happen in 2007.\n\nIn November 2009, 22,588 Félin systems had been ordered. The system was first deployed on the front-line on 7 September 2010 with the 1st Line Infantry Regiment in the Surobi District, which is occupied by the French forces in Afghanistan.\n\nThree major systems can be distinguished:\n\nThe individual system is made up of six sub-systems :\n\nBasic combat clothing has a full cut allowing free movement. Bellows pockets provide ample carrying capacity. The material (fabric) offers good mechanical properties but still allows good air permeability. \n\nThe fibres (aramid/viscose FR) are flame- and wash-resistant. \n\nThe ballistic jacket accommodates:\n\nThe electronic jacket integrates the electronics (computer unit, manager unit, radio, man-machine interface, GPS, cables and connector), flexible water bottle, FAMAS magazines and grenades, and optimises weight distribution on the soldier. \n\nThe equipment is autonomous and can be used alone. The NRBC combat clothing is similar to permanent combat clothing. It is designed to allow combat phases to be carried out with the same efficiency as that achieved with conventional combat clothing.\n\nThere have been many rumours about introduction of a new camouflage pattern. Demonstrators model have been disclosed sporting DPM, flecktarn and an original spot camouflage pattern showing similarities to German Flecktarn and Australian Auscam (see picture below), however latest demonstrators suggest that early Félin systems should use French standard CCE camouflage pattern. The French Army have selected the Kermel V50 and VMC40 fabrics to equip its troops within the context of the Félin Project.\n\nThe PEP lies at the heart of the Félin system. Designed to use all the electronic resources found on the electronic jacket (computer, energy manager, peripheral equipment interfaces, user interfaces), The system is built around a USB 2.0. digital data bus. This choice of open broadband digital data bus and extensive connectivity gives the portable electronic platform, and hence the system, strong interoperability.\n\nPeripheral equipment can be connected to the physical connection ports situated at the front of the battery units. Power sources will be made of two rechargeable Li-ion batteries, provided partially by the Swiss Leclanché group\n\nFAMAS will remain the infantryman’s basic weapon, updated into Félin FAMAS. The FN Minimi (5.56 mm calibre light machine gun) and the FRF2 (7.62 calibre sniper rifle) can accommodate a telescopic night sight with no need for changes. \n\nFAMAS accommodates a man-machine interface, a second grip and a telescopic sight. The sight is equipped with a day imager and a night imager (the infantryman’s sight will be light intensifying, and one soldier per squad will have a thermal sight: uncooled IR), a restitution eyepiece, a clear sight for instinctive shooting. The sight has an integrated video camera that transmits received images to the system. A wire connection links the weapon to the system. \n\nThe Minimi sight uses similar technology to the FAMAS IR sight. The sight supports man-machine interfaces and integrates resources for radio communication with the rest of the Félin system.\n\nThe FRF2 precision rifle sight is based on the use of uncooled infrared sensors, combined with adapted magnifying optics. It also includes radio communication resources.\n\nThe helmet is composed of three components: head protection, communication headset, and optronic equipment. The ballistic shell optimises protection and load-bearing ergonomics (weight distribution). It can accommodate various items required for the mission (facial protection screens) and its shape is compatible with all firing positions of the weapons used. \n\nA lightweight, integrated protective shield protects the infantryman from various threats (wind, rain, dust, UV). Non-linear earplugs afford auditory protection. The NBC mask can be equipped with a filter cartridge or linked to the ventilation powerpack. A tube built into the NBC mask can be used to take in liquids (water, food). \n\nThe communication headset is linked to the radio. It holds the microphone and earpiece and works by bone vibrations (bone conduction transducer). It works independently from the helmet and can therefore remain in operation when the helmet is removed. \n\nThe optronic equipment is composed of mission interface overshell integrating the optronics, head camera (EBCMOS light intensification technology), image display units (OLED technology) allowing data and icons transmitted on the bus system to be displayed, images and video coming from the weapon or the head camera. The image display unit is fixed to the helmet: its screen can be brought into line with infantryman's eye. When not in use, it can be folded away so as not to hinder the soldier.\n\nThe Félin information network (RIF) allows information to be shared throughout the infantry section. Each radio can subscribe to two networks simultaneously. This offers the squad leader some flexibility in organising communication networks in his section. Each network has an audio conference channel, with priority given to the squad leader, an alert channel from the infantryman to his leader, and a data transmission channel. Voice and data transmission is based on tried and tested DECT civilian technology (domestic cordless telephone technology). Each sub-network works from a base carried by the squad leader. As RIF sets are all identical, a soldier can replace his commander if necessary by configuring his set as base. The radio is configured by the Félin computer, thereby limiting the number of control buttons needed on the set.\n\nThe TIS is made up of software supported by the computer, a man-machine interface and a communication interface box connected to a PR4G VS4 portable radio set.\n\nfor the squad leader are based on uncooled IR technology.\n\nThe Félin weapon and subsidiary systems are transported and stored in a Storm iM3220 plastic moulded carry case with foam cut-outs designed for each part. The case is manufactured by Pelican Products.\n\nUsed to recharge the soldiers’ individual batteries. It uses aluminum-air metal-air fuel cells.\n\n(AMX-10P, VBCI, VAB) all have a common structure and are designed for easy integration into vehicles, where they provide the power supply for the mounted soldiers’ systems.\n\n31,455 individual Félin systems are to be delivered to France, as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209210", "title": "AIDS (Trojan horse)", "text": "AIDS (Trojan horse)\n\nAIDS, also known as Aids Info Disk or PC Cyborg Trojan, is a Trojan horse that replaces the AUTOEXEC.BAT file, which would then be used by AIDS to count the number of times the computer has booted. Once this boot count reaches 90, AIDS hides directories and encrypts the names of all files on drive C: (rendering the system unusable), at which time the user is asked to 'renew the license' and contact PC Cyborg Corporation for payment (which would involve sending 189 US$ to a post office box in Panama). There exists more than one version of AIDS, and at least one version does not wait to mung drive C:, but will hide directories and encrypt file names upon the first boot after AIDS is installed. The AIDS software also presented to the user an end user license agreement, some of which read:\n\nAIDS is considered to be an early example of a class of malware known as \"ransomware\".\n\nAIDS was introduced into systems through a floppy disk called the \"AIDS Information Introductory Diskette\", which had been mailed to a mailing list. Evolutionary biologist Dr. Joseph Popp, was identified as the author of the AIDS trojan horse and was a subscriber to this list.\n\nPopp was eventually discovered by the British anti-virus industry and named on a New Scotland Yard arrest warrant. He was detained in Brixton Prison. Though charged with eleven counts of blackmail and clearly tied to the AIDS trojan, Popp defended himself by saying money going to the PC Cyborg Corporation was to go to AIDS research. A Harvard-trained anthropologist, Popp was actually a collaborator of the Flying Doctors, a branch of the African Medical Research Foundation (AMREF), and a consultant for the WHO in Kenya, where he had organized a conference in the new Global AIDS Program that very year. Popp had been behaving erratically since the day of his arrest during a routine baggage inspection at Amsterdam Schiphol Airport. He was declared mentally unfit to stand trial and was returned to the United States.\n\nJim Bates analyzed the AIDS Trojan in detail and published his findings in the Virus Bulletin. He wrote that the AIDS Trojan did not alter the contents of any of the user's\nfiles, just their file names. He explained that once the extension and filename encryption tables are known, restoration is possible. AIDSOUT was a reliable removal program for the Trojan and the CLEARAID program recovered encrypted plaintext after the Trojan triggered. CLEARAID automatically reversed the encryption without having to contact the extortionist.\n\nThe AIDS Trojan was analyzed even further a few years later. Young and Yung pointed out the fatal weakness in malware such as the AIDS Trojan, namely, the reliance on symmetric cryptography. They showed how to use public key cryptography to implement a secure information extortion attack. They published this discovery (and expanded upon it) in a 1996 IEEE Security and Privacy paper. A cryptovirus, cryptotrojan, or cryptoworm hybrid encrypts the victim's files using the public key of the author and the victim must pay (with money, information, etc.) to obtain the needed session key. This is one of many attacks, both overt and covert, in the field known as Cryptovirology.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209224", "title": "Cyanolyca", "text": "Cyanolyca\n\nCyanolyca is a genus of small jays found in humid highland forests in southern Mexico, Central America and the Andes in South America. All are largely blue and have a black mask. They also possess black bills and legs and are skulking birds. They frequently join mixed-species flocks of birds.\n"}
{"id": "2209229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209229", "title": "Rapture of the Deep", "text": "Rapture of the Deep\n\nRapture of the Deep is the 18th studio album by English hard rock band Deep Purple, released in November 2005. It is the fourth studio album from Deep Purple since Steve Morse joined the band in 1994 and the second to feature veteran keyboardist Don Airey. The album was produced by Mike Bradford, who also produced the band's previous release, \"Bananas\".\n\nLike \"Bananas\", the album received generally positive reviews from critics and fans. \"Rapture of the Deep\" is Deep Purple's first release in Europe on the German label Edel Records, while in the US the record was released by Edel's sub-label Eagle Records.\n\nThe album peaked on Billboard's USA Top Independent Albums chart at position No. 43. In the USA, the album sold 2500 copies during the first week. In the UK, the album sold 3500 copies during the first week and 1200 copies during the week after. It also made the top 20 in several European charts. The title track \"Rapture of the Deep\" was released as a promo single in 2005.\n\nAll songs written by Ian Gillan, Roger Glover, Steve Morse, Don Airey and Ian Paice, except where noted\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209231", "title": "Shoumei tea", "text": "Shoumei tea\n\nShoumei (; Standard Chinese pronunciation ) is a white tea that is produced from naturally withered upper leaf and tips, with a stronger flavor reminiscent of lighter oolong teas. It is mostly grown in Fujian Province and Guangxi Province in China. Because it is plucked later than Bai Mudan, the tea may be darker in color, but it should still have a proportionate green color. Some lower grades of Shou Mei may be golden in color with many black and red leaves, making a darker brew with more depth.\n\nTechnically this tea, being a fourth-grade tea, is a by-product of Baihao Yinzhen tea production and uses \"Da Bai\" or Large White leaves.\nThe tea can be brewed very differently and there are many combinations that yield interesting results, but it is important to use good mineral water to bring out the sweetness and aroma of the tea and not to over brew or make a bitter and very strong brew.\n\nTypically, white teas are brewed at a lower temperature than black teas. Often temperatures such as 70 degrees Celsius is all that is required. Different steep times and different temperatures have a remarkably different effect on the outcome of the final brew, but two to five minutes is ideal. This is correct for western style brewing when one is making the tea in a mug or western teapot, but when a gaiwan or yixing teapot is used in the gong fu style of brewing where larger quantities of leaf and smaller quantities of water are used and shared amongst the tea drinkers, steep times of less than a minute and measured in seconds would be preferred.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209232", "title": "Allan Lichtman", "text": "Allan Lichtman\n\nAllan Jay Lichtman (; born April 4, 1947) is an American political historian who teaches at American University in Washington, D.C. He is mostly known for correctly predicting eight of the last nine results for United States presidential elections since 1984, including the widely mispredicted 2016 U.S. presidential election.\n\nIn 2006, he ran for the United States Senate in Maryland, but lost in the primary. He was named by American University as the Distinguished Professor of History in 2011, and as Outstanding Scholar / Teacher for 1992–93, the highest faculty award at that school. He is the author of numerous books and has published over 100 articles. A model he created with Russian seismologist Vladimir Keilis-Borok, known as The Keys to the White House, was designed to predict whether the candidate of an incumbent party would win the next election for the U.S. president.\n\nIn April 2017, Lichtman authored the book \"The Case for Impeachment\", laying out multiple arguments for the impeachment of Donald Trump.\n\nLichtman was born into a Jewish family in the Brownsville neighborhood of Brooklyn in New York City. He graduated from Stuyvesant High School. Lichtman received his B.A. degree from Brandeis University in history in 1967, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa and Magna Cum Laude while also running track and wrestling for the school. In 1973, Lichtman received his Ph.D. from Harvard University as a Graduate Prize Fellow, also in history.\n\nLichtman began teaching at American University in 1973, rising to chair of the History Department, and was named Scholar/Professor of the Year in 1993.\n\nOutside of the classroom, Lichtman has testified as an expert witness on civil rights in more than 70 cases for the U.S. Department of Justice and for civil rights groups such as the NAACP, the Mexican-American Legal Defense and Education Fund and Puerto Rican Legal Defense and Education Fund, and the Southern Poverty Law Center. He also consulted for Vice President Al Gore and Senator Edward Kennedy. He assisted the U.S. Commission on Civil Rights investigation into voting irregularities in Florida during the 2000 election, submitting an extensive report of his statistical analysis of balloting problems. Lichtman concluded \"there were major racial disparities in ballot rejection rates\".\n\nOn being appointed distinguished professor: \"AU reserves this recognition for only a very few faculty, those whose scholarship has, over the long arc of their careers, been so deeply influential that it has remade their fields of knowledge. This rings true for both Distinguished Professors Richard Breitman and Allan Lichtman,\" says Pamela Nadell, chair of the Department of History. \"The Department of History celebrates their appointments, and takes great pride in becoming what will be the only department on campus with two Distinguished Professors.\" According to the American University website, \"The rank of Distinguished Professor honors American University faculty who have produced extraordinary and exceptional scholarship that has earned national and international renown...The rank of Distinguished Professor is awarded on a highly selective basis; it is not a routine promotion for faculty who have already achieved the rank of Professor.\"\n\nAlso, in the early 1980s while living in California as a visiting professor at the California Institute of Technology, Lichtman had a 17-show stint on the game show \"Tic Tac Dough\". He won $100,000 during his time on the show.\n\nLichtman is the author or co-author of ten books and more than 100 articles. He is best known for the \"Keys\" system, presented in his books \"The Thirteen Keys to the Presidency\" and \"The Keys to the White House\". The system uses thirteen historical factors to predict whether the popular vote in the election for President of the United States will be won by the candidate of the party holding the presidency (regardless of whether the president is the candidate). The keys were selected based on their correlations with the presidential election results from 1860 through 1980, using statistical methods adapted from the work of geophysicist Vladimir Keilis-Borok for predicting earthquakes. The system then correctly predicted the popular vote winner in each of the elections since 1984. In 2000, he inaccurately predicted using his system that Gore would be the next president. Lichtman has provided commentary for networks and cable channels such as CNN, MSNBC, and Fox News. In the 2016 election Lichtman predicted that Trump would win the popular vote (Trump ended up winning in the electoral college while losing the popular vote).\n\nIn April 2017, Lichtman authored the book \"The Case for Impeachment\", laying out multiple arguments for the impeachment of Donald Trump. The \"Financial Times\" gave \"The Case for Impeachment\" a positive review, writing: \"Lichtman's powerful book is a reminder that we are only at the start of the Trump investigations.\" \"The Washington Post\" called it \"striking to see the full argument unfold\". \"New York Journal of Books\" recommended it as a resource, \"if you are a member of Congress trying to grapple with all that this administration has wrought.\" \"CounterPunch\" characterized the work as \"a brilliant analysis of every fraudulent act\". \"The Hill\" gave the author praise, writing: \"Lichtman has written what may be the most important book of the year.\" CBC News consulted law scholars that said the fulfillment of Lichtman's impeachment prediction was unlikely, especially with a Republican-controlled U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nOn September 28, 2005, Lichtman formally announced his candidacy for the United States Senate from Maryland as a Democrat. He ran as a progressive, opposing the War in Iraq, calling for an immediate and safe withdrawal of U.S. troops.\n\nLichtman used innovative approaches to reach voters and supporters during the campaign, including MySpace and a web ad where he jumped in a lake. When he and other candidates were not invited by the League of Women Voters to a debate, Lichtman went to the Maryland Public Television studio and protested; he, his wife, and campaign volunteer Gail Dobson were arrested. On October 19, 2006, the three were found Not Guilty on all charges.\n\nLichtman lost in the primary to Ben Cardin. According to the final tally, he received 6,919, or 1.2% of the vote, landing him in 6th place in a field of 18. In October 2012, the Washington Post reported that he was still paying off a mortgage he took out in order to help fund his campaign.\n\nLichtman devised a model with Vladimir Keilis-Borok to predict the result of the US presidential election; the model is called The Keys to the White House. The model does not make separate predictions for the popular vote winner and the electoral college vote winner. It seeks to predict whether the incumbent party will win the electoral college and retain the White House. In eight of the nine U.S. presidential elections from 1984 to 2016, the prediction was accurate for the actual winner. The single failure was the 2000 election, where the model predicted a victory for incumbent party nominee Al Gore. Al Gore won the popular vote, but narrowly lost the electoral college. In 2016 it predicted at first victory for challenger party nominee Donald Trump but then announced that Trump could lose, although qualifying that prediction with a high degree of uncertainty due to the noisiness of the data. \nDespite the successful predictions of the system, during interviews with \"The Washington Post\" in September and late October 2016, Lichtman said that Trump is such an unusual candidate that even if the keys point to a Republican victory, they might be wrong given the unusual circumstances.\n\nLichtman has received numerous awards at American University during his career. Most notably, he was named Distinguished Professor of History in 2011 and Outstanding Scholar/Teacher for 1992–93, the highest faculty award at that school. Honors include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209246", "title": "Meteoritical Society", "text": "Meteoritical Society\n\nThe Meteoritical Society is a non-profit scholarly organization founded in 1933 to promote research and education in planetary science with emphasis on studies of meteorites and other extraterrestrial materials that further our understanding of the origin and history of the solar system.\n\nThe membership of the society comprises over 1,000 scientists and amateur enthusiasts from over 52 countries who are interested in a wide range of planetary science topics. Members interests include meteorites, cosmic dust, asteroids and comets, natural satellites, planets, impact events, and the origins of the Solar System.\n\nThe Meteoritical Society is the organization that records all known meteorites in its \"Meteoritical Bulletin\". The Society also publishes one of the world's leading planetary science journals, \"Meteoritics & Planetary Science\", and is a cosponsor with the Geochemical Society of the renowned journal \"Geochimica et Cosmochimica Acta\".\n\nThe Society presents or cosponsors seven awards each year:\n\nThe Meteoritical Society hosts an annual meeting during the summer, which generally alternates between North America and Europe. It has also held meetings in South Africa, Australia, Brazil, and Japan. The next meeting will be August 9–14 in Glasgow, Scotland. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209251", "title": "Crypto-Islam", "text": "Crypto-Islam\n\nCrypto-Islam is the secret adherence to Islam while publicly professing to be of another faith; people who practice crypto-Islam are referred to as \"crypto-Muslims\". The word has mainly been used in reference to Spanish Muslims during the Inquisition (i.e., the Moriscos and their usage of Aljamiado). \n\nSome historic examples include Ahmad ibn Qasim Al-Hajarī, 16th-century crypto-Muslim from Spain who authored a book recounting how he organized his escape from Spain to Morocco, and also including a refutation of the Catholic opinions about Jesus. The books also included details about how crypto-Muslims lived in Spain. He later became Ambassador of Morocco to Spain. \n\nThere are claims that Armah, who ruled the Kingdom of Aksum and gave refuge to early Muslim converts, was also a crypto-Muslim.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209255", "title": "Sean O'Sullivan (priest)", "text": "Sean O'Sullivan (priest)\n\nSean Patrick Paul O'Sullivan, CM (January 1, 1952 – March 9, 1989) was a Canadian politician who left politics and became a Roman Catholic priest.\n\nBorn in 1952 in Hamilton, Ontario, O'Sullivan showed an interest in politics at a young age: when he was 11 years old he worked for Ellen Fairclough in her election campaign and met John Diefenbaker for the first time. He was educated at Bishop Ryan Catholic Secondary School and Brock University in St. Catharines. When he was just 15 years old he was named Western Ontario representative of the Youth for Diefenbaker movement. This movement was formed in Ottawa to engage support of Canada's young conservatives for John Diefenbaker at the leadership convention. In 1970, at age 18, he was chosen as president of the Young Progressive Conservatives of Canada.\n\nIn 1971, Diefenbaker appointed O'Sullivan as his executive assistant, and in the 1972 election, the 20-year-old O'Sullivan was elected the Progressive Conservative MP for the riding of Hamilton—Wentworth, becoming the youngest member of the House of Commons of Canada ever at that point (in 1974, Liberal Claude-André Lachance became the youngest-ever MP, and New Democrat Pierre-Luc Dusseault beat that record in 2011). He was re-elected in 1974. It was O'Sullivan's private members bill in 1975 that gained recognition for the beaver as Canada's official animal symbol.\n\nIn 1977, O'Sullivan announced that he was leaving politics to enter the Roman Catholic priesthood, eventually becoming Director of Vocations for the Archdiocese of Toronto, as well as publisher of The Catholic Register newspaper.\n\nO'Sullivan learned he was suffering from leukemia in 1983. After treatment, the disease was in remission. During a Brock University convocation ceremony in 1985, Father O'Sullivan was conferred an honorary degree and he delivered the convocation address. In 1986, he was made a Member of the Order of Canada. With the return of his illness in 1989, O'Sullivan entered Princess Margaret Hospital in Toronto for a bone marrow transplant. He died there on March 9, 1989, aged 37.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209256", "title": "Expanded universe", "text": "Expanded universe\n\nThe term expanded universe, sometimes called an extended universe, is generally used to denote the \"extension\" of a media franchise (like a television program or a series of feature films) with other media, generally comics and original novels. This typically involves new stories for existing characters already developed within the franchise, but in some cases entirely new characters and complex mythology are developed. This is not necessarily the same as an adaptation, which is a retelling of the same story that may or may not adhere to accepted canon. Nearly every media franchise with a committed fan base has some form of expanded universe.\n\nTwo prominent examples of media franchises with an expanded universe are \"Star Wars\" and \"Star Trek\", which both have a wide range of original novels, comics, video games, and other media that add to the mythology of their fictional universe in different ways. In both cases, entirely new characters and situations have been developed that exist only within the expanded universe media.\n\nAlthough there are some exceptions, expanded universe works are generally accepted as canon, or part of the \"official\" storyline continuity. Otherwise, they are considered apocrypha. In some cases, characters created for an expanded universe are later featured in the primary works associated with that franchise, as in the cases of Aayla Secura and Grand Admiral Thrawn in the \"Star Wars\" franchise. When all expanded universe works (films, novels, comic books, video games, role-playing games, etc.) are considered canonical, then the expanded universe is an \"imaginary entertainment environment.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209258", "title": "Adin Falkoff", "text": "Adin Falkoff\n\nAdin D. Falkoff (19 December 1921 \n– 13 August 2010) was an engineer and computer systems and programming systems designer who was mostly known for his work on the programming language APL and systems for IBM.\n\nFalkoff, born in New Jersey, received a Bachelor of Engineering (B.Ch.E.) from the City College of New York in 1941, and a Master's degree (M.A.) in Mathematics from Yale University in 1963.\n\nHe was a researcher and manager at IBM Research since 1955 for over forty years before retiring. He collaborated with Ken Iverson from 1960 to 1980 on the design, development, and use of the APL programming language and interactive environment.\n\nOf special note is his landmark article, \"A Formal Description of System/360\", describing the then new IBM System/360 computer system, formally, in APL programming notation.\n\nFalkoff was a visiting member of the faculty of IBM's Systems Research Institute, and taught computer science at Yale University. He was one of the researchers who established and managed the IBM Philadelphia Scientific Center and received many awards for his work, especially with APL.\n"}
{"id": "2209259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209259", "title": "National LGBT Chamber of Commerce", "text": "National LGBT Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe National LGBT Chamber of Commerce (NGLCC) is a U.S. not-for-profit advocacy group that aims to expand the economic opportunities and advancement of the LGBT business community. Its headquarters are in NW in Washington, D.C. NGLCC is the exclusive certifying body for LGBT-owned businesses known as LGBT Business Enterprises (LGBTBEs), and advocates for LGBT business inclusion in corporate and government supplier diversity programs. In October 2017, the organization changed its name from the National Gay & Lesbian Chamber of Commerce to National LGBT Chamber of Commerce to better reflect the entire LGBT business community it serves.\n\nThe NGLCC was co-founded in 2002 by Justin G. Nelson and Chance Mitchell. Nelson has served as president since the NGLCC was founded, and Mitchell has served as CEO over the same period. The organization celebrated its 15th anniversary in 2017.\n\nTheir goal was to create an organization that could support LGBT business owners and showcase the diversity of talent in the lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender communities. NGLCC provides direct links between businesses, corporate partners, government organizations and other community groups that support LGBT economic opportunity.\n\nIn early 2004, NGLCC created a \"diversity certification program\", making the organization a national third-party certifying body for LGBT-owned businesses.\n\nThe NGLCC has a network of more than 50 local, state, and international affiliate LGBT chambers of commerce, and serves to represent their economic interests and opportunities.\n\nThe NGLCC offices employ approximately 15 full-time staff. The NGLCC runs an internship and fellowship program to support operations.\n\nNGLCC co-founders Justin G. Nelson and Chance Mitchell also serve on the board of directors. NGLCC senior executives also include Jonathan Lovitz, Sabrina Kent, and Anthony Wisniewski. \n\nIn 2017 NGLCC released its first proprietary data, the \"\"America's LGBT Economy Report\"\". Among the findings reported: a typical LGBT business has been in business, on average, for more than 12 years and that LGBT businesses contribute more than $1.7 trillion to the U.S. economy and have created more than 33,000 jobs.\n\nIn 2018 and early 2019, as the leading public policy organization on behalf of LGBT-owned businesses, NGLCC won the public sector contracting inclusion of certified LGBTBEs in Orlando, FL; Nashville, TN; Baltimore, MD; Jersey City, NJ; and Hoboken, NJ, while also advancing statewide bills in New York and New Jersey. Currently, California, Massachusetts, and Pennsylvania also include certified LGBT-owned businesses, along with major cities like Seattle, Newark, Columbus, and Philadelphia.\n\nSince 2004, the NGLCC has offered certification to businesses owned by LGBT people. This certification is intended to help corporate and government procurement teams source from LGBT-owned products and services, also known as supplier diversity. As of January 2019, NGLCC has certified 1104 businesses across the United States. Certification in a multi-step process involving an application and supporting documents, a site visit, and final approval before a national certification committee.\n\nIn August 2007 the NGLCC signed a memorandum of understanding with the Women's Business Enterprise National Council to provide opportunities for dual-certification as both a women-owned, and lesbian, bisexual or transgender-owned, business. In 2011 the Human Rights Campaign (HRC) began including active sourcing of LGBT certified businesses as part of the Corporate Equality Index, a national directory of gay-friendly workplaces. In 2017, HRC further expanded the index criteria to require LGBT-inclusion in supplier diversity programs as a stand-alone scored metric.\n\nIn August 2017 it was announced that the Billion Dollar Roundtable will now include NGLCC certified LGBTBEs as a category of diverse vendors counted by corporations spending a billion dollars or more on procurement with diversity-owned firms. The Billion Dollar Roundtable was created in 2001 to recognize and celebrate corporations that achieved spending of at least $1 billion with minority and woman-owned suppliers.\n\nThe NGLCC offers corporate membership. Over 200 companies are recognized as corporate partners of the NGLCC. Partnership provides benefits such as access to certified suppliers, recognition as supporters of the LGBT business community and opportunities to share best practice in supplier diversity. The NGLCC recognizes 10 companies as founding corporate members.\n\n\nThe NGLCC National Dinner is an annual awards event held in November to celebrate progress in the LGBT business community.\n\nIt was first held in 2003 and has been continuously presented at the National Building Museum in Washington, DC. It is attended by businesspeople, LGBT equality advocates, and political figures.\n\nHonors bestowed at the NGLCC National Dinner include: NGLCC/American Airlines ExtrAA Mile Award, Corporation of the Year, Supplier Diversity Advocate of the Year, and LGBT Supplier of the Year.\n\nThe NGLCC/American Airlines ExtrAA Mile Award recognizes an LGBT or allied person, persons or organization that have gone the extra mile to support LGBT equality. Previous NGLCC National Dinner Honorees have included: former U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton, NAACP Board Chair Emeritus Julian Bond, tennis legend and LGBT champion Martina Navratilova, former U.S. Secretary of Labor Hilda Solis, Actress Judith Light, MSNCB news anchor Thomas Roberts, and NBA player Jason Collins.\n\nEvery summer the NGLCC holds the NGLCC International Business and Leadership Conference. The three-day educational conference delivers leadership programming, networking, and engagement opportunities for LGBT business owners and allies. Educational programs include keynote speakers, the annual B2B Boot Camp for certified LGBT Business Enterprises, a chamber development track, marketplace expo, and one-on-one matchmaker meetings. It has previously been held in cities including Washington, DC, Minneapolis, Seattle, Las Vegas (several times), Chicago, Dallas, Fort Lauderdale and Palm Springs. Over 1,200 people attended the 15th Anniversary 2017 NGLCC Conference in Las Vegas, NV.\n\nThe NGLCC became the first LGBT organization to ring the New York Stock Exchange Closing Bell on June 20, 2005. It rang the bell again on June 5, 2009 and January 10, 2011.\n\nIn 2010 the NGLCC began international work (see above), eventually developing into NGLCC Global in 2013.\n\nIn November 2011 the NGLCC unveiled a new Supplier Innovation Center covering a second floor in the building that houses their offices. The Supplier Innovation Center is designed to facilitate training opportunities and develop best practice for small businesses, and provide a space for local start-ups to operate. The NGLCC is offering scholarships to LGBT business owners in partnership with the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth, to be held at the Supplier Innovation Center.\n\nIn 2014, AB1678 became the first-in-the-nation public mandate requiring the intentional inclusion of certified LGBT Business Enterprises in contracting with a statewide agency, the California Public Utilities Commission.\n\nIn 2015, Massachusetts became the first state to Include certified LGBTBEs in statewide contracting, enacted by Governor Charlie Baker with the guidance of the NGLCC.\n\nIn 2016, NGLCC helped introduce the New York State Supplier Diversity Act to intentionally include LGBT, disability, and veteran owned firms in New York State contracting opportunities. That bill, along with a similar bill in New Jersey, are both in process with their respective legislatures.\n\nIn 2018 NGLCC's advocacy and public policy team was responsible for the inclusion of certified LGBT Business Enterprises in the cities of Baltimore, MD; Jersey City, NJ; and Hoboken, NJ. That year the groundwork was laid for similar inclusion legislation to be implemented in Chicago, the District of Columbia, Nashville, Denver, and other major cities. \n\nThe NGLCC works with more than 50 local, state and international chambers. In 2011, the NGLCC appointed a full-time position to oversee relations with affiliated chambers. The move is considered mutually beneficial to both local chambers and the national chamber.\n\nThe NGLCC stopped national membership options in 2011, and all membership is now routed through affiliated chambers. Membership of an affiliated chamber infers membership of the NGLCC. Benefits for membership include a waiver of the fee required for supplier diversity certification. NGLCC corporate partners also offer benefits to members of affiliated chambers.\n\nRelations between affiliated chambers, the NGLCC, and the LGBT business community are overseen by the Affiliate Chamber Council (ACC).\n\nIn 2010 the NGLCC hosted the first LGBT trade mission to Argentina, joined by U.S. LGBT businesses. The trade mission met with government officials and business counterparts and formalized relations with the Argentine LGBT Chamber of Commerce. In October 2011 the NGLCC traveled to Bogota to lay the groundwork for a future U.S. certified LGBT trade mission to Colombia.\n\nNGLCC Global, a division of the National LGBT Chamber of Commerce, promotes the growth of small businesses and provides advocacy for broad-based economic advancement and empowerment of the global LGBT community. Through a variety of resources, NGLCC Global connects LGBT-owned and -allied companies, multinational corporations, and international affiliate chamber leaders and members.\n\nIn 2016, NGLCC launched NGLCC Global LGBTI Business Week. Hosted by NGLCC in partnership with leaders and organizations committed to expanding global LGBTI economic opportunity, this was the first summit of its kind to converge economic, public policy, and global human rights experts with the goal of shaping a more equitable world for LGBTI citizens. The findings of the week were presented along with awards for top achievement in LGBTI business at the NGLCC National Dinner in Washington, DC, on Friday, November 18, 2016.\n\nNGLCC Global Affiliate Chambers include:\n\nArgentina\nAustralia\nCanada\nCentral & Eastern Europe\nColombia\nCosta Rica\nDominican Republic\nMexico\nSouth Africa\nSweden\nUruguay\n\nEcuador\n\n"}
{"id": "2209268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209268", "title": "Partial redundancy elimination", "text": "Partial redundancy elimination\n\nIn compiler theory, partial redundancy elimination (PRE) is a compiler optimization that eliminates expressions that are redundant on some but not necessarily all paths through a program. PRE is a form of common subexpression elimination.\n\nAn expression is called partially redundant if the value computed by the expression is already available on some but not all paths through a program to that expression. An expression is fully redundant if the value computed by the expression is available on all paths through the program to that expression. PRE can eliminate partially redundant expressions by inserting the partially redundant expression on the paths that do not already compute it, thereby making the partially redundant expression fully redundant.\n\nFor instance, in the following code:\n\nthe expression codice_1 assigned to codice_2 is partially redundant because it is computed twice if codice_3 is true. PRE would perform code motion on the expression to yield the following optimized code:\n\nAn interesting property of PRE is that it performs (a form of) common subexpression elimination and loop-invariant code motion at the same time. In addition, PRE can be extended to eliminate \"injured\" partial redundancies, thereby effectively performing strength reduction. This makes PRE one of the most important optimizations in optimizing compilers. Traditionally, PRE is applied to lexically equivalent expressions, but recently formulations of PRE based on static single assignment form have been published that apply the PRE algorithm to values instead of expressions, unifying PRE and global value numbering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209285", "title": "Florian Metz", "text": "Florian Metz\n\nFlorian Metz (born September 18, 1985) is an Austrian football coach and a former player who played as a defender. He works a physiotherapist with Austria Wien.\n\nHe is one of the first graduates of the Frank Stronach Academy. He played at the Austria Wien first team from 2004 until 2009, when he left for LASK Linz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209289", "title": "River Trym", "text": "River Trym\n\nThe River Trym is a short river, some in length, which rises in Filton, South Gloucestershire, England. The upper reaches are culverted, some underground, through mostly urban landscapes, but once it emerges into the open it flows through a nature reserve and city parks before joining the tidal River Avon at Sea Mills. 18th-century water mills near the mouth gave the area its name.\n\n\"Portus Abonae\" was a Roman port at the mouth which provided an embarkation point for journeys across the River Severn to South Wales. In the 18th century there were short lived attempts at creating a port and a whale fishery here. The name Trym appears to have Anglo-Saxon roots. In recent years silting problems, caused by urban development have caused some difficulties, but alleviation works have helped reduce the problem.\n\nThe Trym rises near Filton in South Gloucestershire, in the area of Filton Golf Club. and much of its upper course is culverted underneath 20th century housing. It surfaces in the Bristol suburb of Southmead, then flows open through Badock's Wood nature reserve. Just south of here is Henleaze Swimming Lake, a former quarry fed by springs, the overflow running into the Trym. The river is culverted through Westbury-on-Trym village. A sluice here is used to divert water into a storm drain in times of high rainfall to save the village centre from flooding.\n\nThe Trym then disappears into culverts, re-emerging at Henbury Golf Club before entering the Blaise Castle estate where it is joined on the right bank by the Hazel Brook above \nCoombe Dingle. The remains of Coombe Mill, which was fed by both the Hazel Brook and the Trym can be seen here. Passing under Dingle Road bridge, the river then flows through Sea Mills river park, passing under the Portway and the Severn Beach railway line before joining the river Avon. A weir under the Portway prevents flooding upstream, except during the highest spring tides.\n\nBadock's Wood in Southmead is a nature reserve managed by Bristol City Council. Areas of beech, oak and ash woodland support a range of other bushes and shrubs, including hazel, maple, hawthorn and blackthorn. Badock's Meadow, a former prefab housing estate has been reseeded with native meadow plants including oxeye daisies, yellow rattle, wild carrot and\nknapweed. Wildlife includes native woodland birds including woodpeckers and owls, also pipistrelle bats.\n\nThe Blaise Castle estate contains a variety of trees and plant life, also providing cover for birds and small mammals. Further downstream, just above Sea Mills, Himalayan Balsam and Japanese Knotweed, both invasive riverside plants have established themselves. Ducks and moorhen can be found along many stretches of the river, with gulls and estuary birds near the mouth.\n\nA pollution incident by Wessex Water which allowed sewage to flow into the Trym in 2001, killing eels, sticklebacks and invertebrates, resulted in a fine following prosecution by the Environment Agency. Other pollution incidents have followed.\n\nAt the confluence of the Trym with the Avon was the Roman port and small town of \"Portus Abonae\", which took its name from the main river Avon which simply means 'river' in British Celtic. Abona was a staging point for the Roman invasion of Wales and was at the western end of the Roman road from Silchester.\n\nIn the 15th century there were tide mills at Millpill, near the mouth. An attempt was made in 1712 by the entrepreneur Joshua Franklyn to open a commercial dock at the mouth of the Trym, on the Roman site, but the venture foundered after a few decades. A whale fishery enterprise set up in 1752 was equally short lived. Parts of the dock walls can still be seen.\n\nLinguistics sources indicate that the name \"Trym\" may derive from the Anglo-Saxon, meaning 'firm' or 'strong' one'.\n\nThe flow of the river has decreased in power in recent years, partly because of surface run-off in the upper catchment of the Hazel Brook, especially from the large retail centre at Cribbs Causeway, which sends a good deal of silt into the system, slowing the flow and creating a risk of flooding downstream. This problem has now been partially alleviated by the construction of the Catbrain attenuation reservoir near Cribbs Causeway. Measurements of pollution by the city council show the water to be relatively clean.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209291", "title": "Intelligence and public policy", "text": "Intelligence and public policy\n\nA large body of research indicates that intelligence measures such as intelligence quotient (IQ) varies between individuals and between certain groups, and that they correlate with socially important outcomes such as educational achievement, employment, crime, poverty and socioeconomic status.\n\nIn the United States, certain public policies and laws regarding employment, military service, education and crime incorporate IQ or similar measurements. Internationally, certain public policies, such as improving nutrition and prohibiting neurotoxic toxins, have as one of their goals raising or preventing a decline in intelligence.\n\nIn the early 20th century, eugenics legislation was passed in many US states which allowed, or encouraged, sterilization of \"feeble-minded\" individuals.\n\nIn the 1927 case \"Buck v. Bell\", Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes closed the 8-1 majority opinion upholding the sterilization of Carrie Buck, who along with her mother and daughter was labeled \"feeble-minded\", with the infamous phrase, \"Three generations of imbeciles are enough.\"\n\nEugenics fell out of favor in the middle part of the century and is now widely denounced, though memories of the period continue to influence public policy.\n\nCognitive test scores predict educational performance better than they predict any other outcome, and cognitive testing is pervasive in academics. Central policy issues concern the proper role of testing in assessing educational quality and in college admission; efforts to characterize and close the educational achievement gap between racial and socioeconomic groups in the US; and the importance of cognitive ability differences in educational affirmative action.\n\nThe existence of educational achievement gaps between racial and socioeconomic groups is broadly accepted; the source and stability of the gaps remain areas of active research and debate. The No Child Left Behind Act of 2001 (NCLB) is aimed explicitly at reducing achievement gaps by race. Federally defined formulas in NCLB call for elimination of all achievement disparity by 2014. Regardless of the source of the gap, most educators agree that it must be addressed. They often advocate equitable funding for education.\n\nThe 9th Circuit Court of Appeals interpreted state and federal statutes to require that IQ tests not be used in a manner that was determinative of tracking students into classes designed for the mentally retarded. \"Larry P. v. Riles\", 793 F.2d 969 (9th Cir. 1984). The court specifically found that the tests involved were designed and standardized based on an all-white population, and had not undergone a legislatively mandated validation process. In addition, the court ruled that predictive validity for a general population is not sufficient, since the rights of an individual student were at issue, and emphasized that had the tests not been treated as controlling but instead used as part of a thorough and individualized assessment by a school psychologist a different result would have been obtained. In September 1982, the judge in the \"Larry P.\" case, Federal District Judge Robert F. Peckham, relented in part in response to a lawsuit brought by black parents who wanted their children tested. The parents' attorney, Mark Bredemeier, said his clients viewed the modern special education offered by California schools today as helpful to children with learning disabilities, not a dead-end track, as parents contended in the original 1979 \"Larry P.\" case.\n\nA major area of controversy regarding the NCLB Act is whether achievement gaps are the result of \"the soft bigotry of low expectations\" or reflect real cognitive ability differences between groups. Because the Act includes warnings and funding consequences for schools which do not meet performance goals, whether disparate student performance is due primarily to environment (which is perceived to be under substantial school and teacher control) or to genetics (which is perceived to be far less malleable) has become a crucial issue.\n\nGifted education and special education programs aim to provide tailored instruction to students with especially high or low ability. Research in both civilian and military training has demonstrated that bright individuals learn 2-5 times faster than their less able peers.\n\nOne summary of the relationship between employment policy and IQ testing is provided by Murphy (2002):\n\nCognitive ability tests represent the best single predictor of job performance, but also represent the predictor most likely to have substantial adverse impact on employment opportunities for members of several racial and ethnic minority groups. Debates over the use of these tests in selection often involve trade-offs between two criteria that are valued by decision makers – that is, efficiency and equity. Findings and methods from decision research can help us frame these trade-offs, but in most cases they cannot be avoided.\n\nBefore the late twentieth century, on the basis of studies showing widely varying validities for personnel selection techniques, the theory of \"situational specificity\" held sway. This principle holds that each organization, work setting and job is unique, requiring unique employee characteristics or skills, and that selection on any general ability yields little benefit. However, the development of statistical techniques such as meta-analysis allowed large samples to be assembled from smaller studies, revealing that apparent validity variations reflected statistical artifacts. Re-analysis, and subsequent studies, have established that general mental ability (IQ) predicts job performance across all jobs. The validity of IQ varies most notably with job complexity: IQ matters little for simple jobs such as packing, and a great deal in complex jobs such as medicine.\n\nThese findings have major significance. For example, racial groups differ in average performance on mental ability tests: East Asians on average score higher than Whites, who on average score higher than Blacks (see Race and intelligence for a more thorough discussion). Race-blind hiring on the basis of cognitive test score, among the best predictors of job performance, tends to lead to under-representation of some racial groups in favor of others, a phenomenon called \"adverse impact\" or \"disparate impact\" in employment law. (In contrast, \"disparate treatment\" refers to deliberate discrimination.)\n\nIn 1971, in the case \"Griggs v. Duke Power Co.\", the US Supreme Court handed down a seminal ruling which framed US public policy on adverse impact. \"Griggs\" concerned a company which had rejected a large number of Black applicants who either lacked a high-school education or performed poorly on a paper-and-pencil cognitive test. Referring to the Civil Rights Act of 1964 , the Court wrote,\nThe Act proscribes not only overt discrimination but also practices that are fair in form, but discriminatory in operation. The touchstone is business necessity. If an employment practice which operates to exclude Negroes cannot be shown to be related to job performance, the practice is prohibited.\n\nTitle VII of the Civil Rights Act generally prohibits employment practices that are unfair or discriminatory. One provision of Title VII, codified at 42 USC 2000e-2(h), specifically provides that it is not an \"unlawful employment practice for an employer to give and to act upon the results of any professionally developed ability test provided that such test, its administration or action upon the results is not designed, intended or used to discriminate because of race, color, religion, sex or national origin.\" This statute was interpreted by the Supreme Court in \"Griggs v. Duke Power Co.\", 401 US 424 (1971). In \"Griggs\", the Court ruled that the reliance solely on a general IQ test that was not found to be specifically relevant to the job at issue was a discriminatory practice where it had a \"disparate impact\" on hiring. The Court gave considerable weight in its ruling to an Equal Employment Opportunity Commission regulation interpreting Section 2002e-2(h)'s reference to a \"professionally developed ability test\" to mean \"a test which fairly measures the knowledge or skills required by the particular job or class of jobs which the applicant seeks, or which fairly affords the employer a chance to measure the applicant's ability to perform a particular job or class of jobs.\" In other words, the use of any particular test would need to be shown to be relevant to the particular job or class of jobs at issue.\n\nIn 1989, the US Supreme Court decision in \"Wards Cove Packing Co. v. Atonio\" reduced the defendant's burden of proving business necessity to a burden of producing evidence of business justification. The Civil Rights Act of 1991 overturned that portion of the \"Wards Cove\" decision.\n\nThese decisions added a legal dimension to trade-offs between \"efficiency and equity\" referenced by Murphy. Though cognitive testing is generally inexpensive, reliable and valid, US employers risk expensive legal action if such testing produces disparate impact. In practice, companies have responded with a variety of strategies, from abandonment of cognitive testing to maintenance of racial hiring quotas. The latter derives from enforcement of the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission's \"four-fifths rule\", which states that any group selection rate that is less than four-fifths (80%) of the highest rate will be regarded by Federal enforcement agencies as evidence of adverse impact.\n\nAttempts to formulate a test with reliability and validity equal to cognitive testing, but that does not produce disparate impact, have generally failed.\nMicrosoft is known for using non-illegal tests that correlate with IQ tests as part of the interview process, weighing the results even more than experience in many cases.\n\nAll US military recruits take the Armed Forces Qualification Test, an intelligence test that strongly measures the general intelligence factor. A recruit's cognitive test scores in part determine the professions available to him or her.\n\nProblems in training low-IQ military recruits during World War II led the US Congress to ban enlistment from the lowest 10% (below IQ 80) of the population.\n\nBecause people with IQs below 80 (the 10th percentile, Department of Defense \"Category V\") are difficult to train, federal law bars their induction into the military. As of 2005, only 4 percent of the recruits were allowed to score as low as in the 16th to 30th percentile, a grouping known as \"Category IV\" on the U.S. Armed Forces' mental-aptitude exam. During the Vietnam War, a program known as Project 100,000 was devised to recruit much more heavily from this category, but was eventually ended in 1971.\n\nThe U.S. military uses the Armed Forces Qualifying Test (AFQT), as higher scores correlate with significant increases in effectiveness of both individual soldiers and units.\n\nIn its 2002 ruling on the case \"Atkins v. Virginia\", the US Supreme Court outlawed the execution of mentally retarded criminals on the grounds that it constituted cruel and unusual punishment, which is prohibited by the 8th Amendment. The designation of mental retardation (or developmental disability) typically requires a measured IQ below 70 or 75.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States has utilized IQ test results during the sentencing phase of some criminal proceedings. The Supreme Court case of \"Atkins v. Virginia\", decided June 20, 2002,\nheld that executions of mentally challenged criminals are \"cruel and unusual punishments\" prohibited by the Eighth Amendment. In \"Atkins\" the court stated that\n\nIn overturning the Virginia Supreme Court's holding, the \"Atkins\" opinion stated that petitioner's IQ result of 59 was a factor making the imposition of capital punishment a violation of his eighth amendment rights. In the opinion's notes the court provided some of the facts relied upon when reaching their decision\n\nIndividuals with IQs below 70 have been essentially exempted from the death penalty in the U.S. since 2002, even though this cannot be definitely confirmed.\n\nThe Social Security Administration also uses IQ results when deciding disability claims. In certain cases, IQ results alone are used (in those cases where the result shows a \"full scale IQ of 59 or less\") and in other cases IQ results are used along with other factors (for a \"full scale IQ of 60 through 70\") when deciding whether a claimant qualifies for Social Security Disability benefits.\n\nPublic policy implications of IQ and race research are one of the greatest sources of controversy surrounding race and intelligence research. Regardless of the source of the IQ gap, most educators agree that it must be addressed; they often advocate more equitable funding for education. An achievement gap refers to the observed disparity in the performance of groups of students, primarily in those defined by race or ethnicity, in educational measures such as standardized test scores, grade point average, dropout rates and course enrollment and completion rates.\n\nSome proponents of a genetic interpretation of the IQ gap, such as Rushton and Jensen (2005a) and Gottfredson (2005b), have sometimes argued that their interpretation does not in itself demand any particular policy response: while a conservative commentator may feel the results justify, for example, reductions in affirmative action, a liberal commentator may argue from a Rawlsian point of view (that genetic advantages are undeserved and unjust) for substantial affirmative action.\n\nIn the book \"Practical Ethics\", philosopher Peter Singer wrote: Let us suppose that the genetic hypothesis turns out to be correct... I believe that the implications of this supposition are less drastic than they are often supposed to be...\nFirst, the genetic hypothesis does not imply that we should reduce our efforts to overcome other causes of inequality between people... Perhaps we should put special efforts into helping those who start from a position of disadvantage, so that we end with a more egalitarian result.\nSecond, the fact that the average IQ of one racial group is a few points higher than that of another does not allow anyone to say that all members of the higher IQ group have higher IQs... The point is that these figures are averages and say nothing about individuals...\nThe third reason... is simply that, as we saw earlier, the principle of equality is not based on any actual equality that all people share. I have argued that the only defensible basis for the principle of equality is equal consideration of interests... Equal status does not depend on intelligence. Racists who maintain the contrary are in peril of being forced to kneel before the next genius they encounter.\nDifferences in health care, nutrition, regulation of environmental toxins, and geographic distribution of diseases and control strategies between the developing world and developed nations have all been subjects of policies or policy recommendations (see Health and intelligence).\n\n"}
{"id": "2209299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209299", "title": "Tom LaBonge", "text": "Tom LaBonge\n\nThomas J. LaBonge (born October 6, 1953) is an American politician. He was a member of the Los Angeles City Council representing the 4th district, serving from 2001 to 2015. He won a special election to fill the seat left vacant by the death of long-time council member John Ferraro. The district represents a wide diversity of incomes and neighborhoods. At the time he was in office, he was the Chairman of the Arts, Parks, Health and Aging committee, Vice Chairman of the Transportation Committee and the Ad Hoc River Committee, and member of the Trade, Commerce & Tourism Committee, and the Ad Hoc on Recovering Energy, Natural Resources & Economic Benefit from Waste for L.A. (RENEW LA) in the city of Los Angeles. He is a member of the Democratic Party.\n\nPrior to serving as councilman, LaBonge was Director of Community Relations at the Department of Water and Power, Special Assistant to Mayor Richard Riordan, and Chief Deputy to Council President John Ferraro. LaBonge is a lifelong advocate for Griffith Park, one of the largest urban parks in the nation, which falls in his district.\n\nA graduate of John Marshall High School, LaBonge received his bachelor's degree in sociology from California State University, Los Angeles. He married graphic designer and illustrator Brigid Manning LaBonge in 1988. They reside in the Silver Lake district of Los Angeles with their two children, Mary-Cate and Charles.\n"}
{"id": "2209301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209301", "title": "Beyond the Mat", "text": "Beyond the Mat\n\nBeyond the Mat is a 1999 American documentary film directed, written, produced and narrated by Barry W. Blaustein. The film focuses on the lives of professional wrestlers outside of the ring, primarily Mick Foley, Terry Funk, and Jake Roberts, as well as some aspiring wrestlers. It focuses on the World Wrestling Federation (WWF), Extreme Championship Wrestling (ECW) during its rise in popularity, and many other independent wrestlers and organizations. The film was originally released in U.S. theaters in March 2000, and later on VHS and DVD.\n\nThe film begins with director Barry Blaustein discussing his love for professional wrestling and clips of him viewing employees of the World Wrestling Federation and Extreme Championship Wrestling. He then decides to travel the United States over a three-year period, endeavoring to understand the mindset of someone who would voluntarily choose to become a professional wrestler. Blaustein interviews a wide variety of wrestling personalities and ascertains their motivations.\n\nBlaustein focuses on three famous wrestlers, one at the height of his career (Mick Foley, aka \"Mankind\"), one contemplating retirement (Terry Funk) and one at a career low (Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts). He begins by following Funk, a 53-year-old man in need of knee surgery who appears unable to retire, despite the mounting toll wrestling is taking on his body. Blaustein follows him as he competes at hardcore wrestling promotion Extreme Championship Wrestling's first pay-per-view event Barely Legal. Funk also appears with his friend, former wrestler Dennis Stamp, who is eager to work as a referee in Funk's upcoming \"retirement\" match. Stamp discusses the fact that he has not wrestled in years, but remains in shape just in case he gets the call, and demonstrates his unusual workout regimen: jumping on a trampoline in his back yard while holding hand weights.\n\nFunk's sometime in-ring rival, Foley, is profiled next. He has been taking increasingly risky falls (or \"bumps\") and blows to the head, and at one point is heard talking incoherently as the result of a fall (from his Hell in a Cell match against The Undertaker at King of the Ring in 1998) which briefly rendered him unconscious. Clips of Foley with his wife and children are spliced with the clips of him risking his body for the sport. Later, in the film's climax, his wife and young children (particularly his daughter Noelle) watch in horror from the front of the audience during Foley's \"I Quit\" match at the 1999 Royal Rumble, wherein he takes multiple unprotected shots to the head by Dwayne \"The Rock\" Johnson with a steel folding chair. For weeks after the match, Blaustein was haunted by seeing Foley's family reaction to the Royal Rumble match. Blaustein decided to show Foley and his wife the footage he captured at the event. After watching the footage, Foley admitted he felt guilty for putting his family through the ordeal, and said he never wanted put his family in that position again.\n\nLastly, Roberts is a wrestler whose height of popularity was in the 1980s. Now he is a crack cocaine addict, and estranged from his daughter. Although he was once one of the more famous wrestlers in America, performing in front of tens of thousands of fans, he is now wrestling in small-town venues. In the course of the film, Roberts is shown attempting to reconcile with his daughter and being interviewed after reportedly smoking crack cocaine in a hotel room (the act is not shown on camera), as well as musing aloud about his increasingly illicit sexual dalliances while traveling.\n\nThe careers of the three successful wrestlers are contrasted with those of wrestlers who have not yet achieved comparable success, such as two men getting started in the sport of wrestling, Tony Jones and Michael Modest, who are granted a tryout match for the WWF. In addition, Darren Drozdov is a former NFL football player who is shown in an interview with Vince McMahon. Drozdov, who can vomit at will, is called on by McMahon to vomit in a bucket as a demonstration of his ability—an ability which earned him the ring name \"Puke\"—which McMahon plans to use as part of Drozdov's new in-ring persona. Drozdov becomes a WWF wrestler, but at the end of the film, it is revealed that Droz was paralyzed in an in-ring accident from a botched maneuver several months later.\n\nBlaustein decided to make a documentary about professional wrestling after being outed as a professional wrestling fan. His original budget was $500,000, funded by the company Imagine. He shot footage for the film over a span of three to five years.\n\nWorld Championship Wrestling refused to participate in the film. Blaustein approached the World Wrestling Federation (WWF) about involving the company in the film in 1997. WWF chairman Vince McMahon originally allowed Blaustein full access to behind-the-scenes aspects of his company, but later tried to pull out of the deal.\n\nJake Roberts has stated that he was informed the film would be used to help children, but that never transpired. Blaustein has stated the opposite. In response to why he thought Roberts made the allegations, Blaustein responded, \"I don't know why. Jake's looking for publicity for himself, maybe. I don't know. He has problems with reality. I wish Jake all the best.\"\n\n\"Beyond the Mat\" was released in theaters in the United States in March 2000. The film was later released on DVD, including extra footage and cast interviews. An unrated director's cut edition dubbed \"Special Ringside Edition\" was released on DVD in March 2004. This version featured a new introduction and additional footage, as well as an interview with Foley and Jesse Ventura.\n\n\"Beyond the Mat\" has an 82% \"Fresh\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes, based on 66 reviews. Its consensus reads: \"Even if you aren't a fan, \"Beyond the Mat\" provides a riveting, perceptive look into the world of professional wrestling by taking a closer look at the people beneath the personas.\"\n\nLisa Schwarzbaum of \"Entertainment Weekly\" rated the film a B-, stating that \"\"Beyond the Mat\" is entirely dependent on, and shaped by, the \"good stuff\" the director happens to get, rather than driven by hard questions a journalist might want answered.\" Paul Tatara of CNN wrote, \"Blaustein seems to think that he's humanizing these guys by showing how \"normal\" they are out of the ring, but he unintentionally makes their penchant for self-mutilation all the more inexplicable. There are a couple of laughs in the movie, but the overall effect is much more depressing than it is humorous.\"\n\nThe film was named Best Documentary at the Cinequest Film Festival, and was also nominated by the Director's Guild Association for best documentary and best director. The book \"The 100 Best Movies You've Never Seen\" includes \"Beyond the Mat\" in its list, declaring that it \"works on an almost Shakespearean level.\"\n\nAfter viewing the film, McMahon removed all advertising for it from WWF broadcasts. As a result, Lions Gate Films, the film's distributor, considered filing a lawsuit for restraint of trade. Spokespeople for the WWF, however, stated that advertising was pulled because of a policy against advertising for other wrestling companies or ventures. Blaustein also stated that McMahon ordered his wrestlers, including Mick Foley, not to speak about the film publicly. Foley, however, did appear on \"Larry King Live\" with Blaustein to help promote the film. As a result, the tagline of the movie became \"\"The Movie Vince McMahon Didn't Want You to See!\"\".\n\nRoddy Piper also appeared with Blaustein on \"Larry King Live\" to discuss the professional wrestling business. He called the movie, \"the best documentary ever made on professional wrestling.\" Likewise, Hulk Hogan expressed an interest in appearing in the next wrestling documentary should Blaustein make one.\n\nIn June 2011, Blaustein undertook an extensive one-hour interview on \"Review a Wai\" with John Pollock, in which he discussed the problems of putting the documentary together with Vince McMahon's blessing. Blaustein also revealed that after the first viewing, it was Linda McMahon who was more upset than Vince, due to the documentary's portrayal of the company, and a lack of emphasis on the \"fun\" in professional wrestling.\n\nIn the years after the film was released, the three wrestlers primarily profiled continued their lives largely on the same path. Foley retired from full-time competition in 2000, at age 34, due to health concerns related to his hardcore style of wrestling, as well as him and his wife Colette (who was featured in the film with their two older children) having two more children after the film was released. He had, however, wrestled on occasion afterwards, until doctors no longer medically cleared him to wrestle in 2012, shooting down a potential feud with then-NXT talent Dean Ambrose as a way to bring Ambrose up to the main WWE roster. (Ambrose would ultimately debut as part of The Shield later that year.) Foley was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame on April 6, 2013, and maintains a relatively successful circuit of stand-up comedy and speaking tours. He is also a New York Times best-selling novelist.\n\nAs the epilogue of the film mentioned, Funk's retirement lasted three months. Funk went on to participate in several more retirement matches, the most recent on September 22, 2017, at age 73. Along with his brother Dory Funk, Jr., Funk was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2009.\n\nRoberts' drug and alcohol use increased after the film was released. In 2004, Roberts faced a charge of \"causing unnecessary suffering\" after his snake, \"Damien\", was allowed to starve to death in the garage of his London Colney home. In 2007, WWE initiated a policy to pay all expenses for any former WWWF/WWF/WWE performer who needed to enter into any form of drug rehabilitation. According to various wrestling news reports, as well as his own MySpace page, Roberts was placed in a 14-week voluntary rehab program by WWE as of December 10, 2007. In May 2008, Jim Ross reported that, \"\"Jake Roberts has been doing well the past few weeks, after completing a treatment program.\"\" Roberts continues to wrestle on the independent circuit, and in 2012 moved in with fellow wrestler Diamond Dallas Page to receive help with getting his life back on track. In 2013, Scott Hall joined Roberts' rehabilitative efforts by also moving into Page's home, which has been nicknamed the \"accountability crib\". This is documented in the film \"The Resurrection of Jake the Snake\".\n\nAt WrestleCon 2013, Roberts announced his desire to return to WWE as a participant in Royal Rumble 2014, which did not happen. However, on January 6, 2014, Roberts returned on WWE television for the first time in almost nine years, as a part of \"Old School Raw\" at the end of the CM Punk vs Roman Reigns match, bringing out a new snake with him (an Albino Burmese Python) and aiding The New Age Outlaws and Punk in fending off The Shield. Jake is doing well and enjoying his new found sobriety, although he was diagnosed with skin cancer, for which he has undergone successful treatment. He was announced as the second entrant of WWE's 2014 Hall of Fame Class.\n\nIn 2007, Jim Bell, the former Vice President of Merchandising for the WWF who featured in the film, was sentenced for trying to defraud the company almost $1 million dollars from 1998 to 2002 through illegitimate kickbacks. He received an eight month prison sentence and three years of probation.\n\nIn 2014, Dennis Stamp published a book about his wrestling days titled \"The Stamp Collection: A Collection of Short Stories from the World's Most Famous Unknown Wrestler\". That year he also refereed a main event for Scottish Wrestling Entertainment.\n\nIn 2016, Stamp announced that his cancer had returned. He died of lymphoma on March 13, 2017 after which wrestlers including Ted DiBiase and Tommy Dreamer paid tribute to him on social media.\n\nIn November 2017, Stamp was posthumously inducted into the Amarillo Pioneer Hall of Fame by the local Amarillo Pioneer newspaper.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209304", "title": "Joe Lynn Turner", "text": "Joe Lynn Turner\n\nJoe Lynn Turner (born Joseph Arthur Mark Linquito, August 2, 1951) is an American singer, guitarist, songwriter, and producer. He is known for his work in the hard rock bands Rainbow, Yngwie J. Malmsteen and Deep Purple. During his career, Turner fronted and played guitar with pop rock band Fandango in the late 1970s; and in the early 1980s, he became a member of Rainbow, fronting the band and writing songs with guitarist, Ritchie Blackmore and bassist, and producer, Roger Glover. After Rainbow had disbanded (the first time) in March 1984, he pursued a solo career, released one album, Rescue You, and then later did session work, singing background vocals for the likes of Billy Joel, Cher, and Michael Bolton. On the advice of Bolton, Turner began recording jingles for radio and television. Other songs he had composed or through collaboration with songwriters like Desmond Child and Jack Ponti were being recorded and released by international recording artists Jimmy Barnes, Lee Aaron, and Bonfire. Turner had a short-lived association with neoclassical metal guitarist Yngwie Malmsteen and then Deep Purple. From the mid-1990s, he resumed his solo career, releasing an additional nine studio and two live recordings. Turner did other session work, appearing as lead vocalist on tribute albums and working on projects involving various musical groups including progressive rock band Mother's Army; Bulgarian hard rock band Brazen Abbot; funk rock duo Hughes Turner Project; and classic rock/ progressive rock band Rated X. In 2006, Frontiers Records approached Turner to become involved with the AOR side project Sunstorm. By 2016, four albums under the Sunstorm name had been released. That same year, Turner released \"The Sessions\" via Cleopatra Records featuring a veritable who's who of classic rock royalty as guest musicians, before resuming his seemingly constant touring schedule back in Europe.\n\nTurner, like millions of other teenagers in the 1960s, garnered admiring eyes through playing music. Growing up in an Italian-American home, where Frank Sinatra, Enrico Caruso, and other Italian musical heroes were second only to the Church in reverence, Turner realized that music was the path to popularity. In high school, he formed the band, Ezra, performing original material and cover songs. He played the accordion as a child, grew up with an appreciation for classic R&B and became an accomplished guitarist in his early teens. He was once influenced primarily by such artists as Led Zeppelin, Jimi Hendrix and Free.\n\nIn March 1977, Fandango, a band described as an eclectic mix of R&B, pop, country, jazz and melodic rock, signed their first recording contract with RCA Records. Turner sang and played guitar on the band's four albums. Fandango toured with numerous artists including The Allman Brothers Band, The Marshall Tucker Band, The Beach Boys and Billy Joel.\n\nAfter Fandango split, He received a phone call from British guitarist Ritchie Blackmore. This resulted in an audition and Turner was immediately enlisted in Rainbow. The band, while popular in Europe and Japan, had not reached the same level of success in the US before Turner joined. With his contributions (largely considered more pop-oriented), the group was catapulted to a new level of American success. Several tracks from albums with Turner reached the Top 20 on rock radio charts in the early to mid-80's. \"Stone Cold\" became Rainbow's first Top 40 hit and the band's videos were played on heavy rotation on MTV. Turner recorded three studio albums with Rainbow: \"Difficult to Cure\", \"Straight Between the Eyes\", and \"Bent Out of Shape\", which featured the single, \"Street of Dreams\". Rainbow disbanded in 1984.\n\nIn 1985, after the break-up of Rainbow, Turner released a solo album, \"Rescue You\", produced by Roy Thomas Baker, known for his work with Queen and The Cars. He co-wrote most of the songs with keyboardist Al Greenwood (Foreigner). The first single, \"Endlessly,\" received extensive airplay on radio and MTV. Tours with Night Ranger and Pat Benatar and an acting role in the TV movie \"Blue Deville\" followed.\n\nIn 1987 Turner also supplied backing vocals to the Michael Bolton album \"The Hunger\". He appeared on the tracks \"Hot Love\" and \"Gina\".\n\nThat same year (1987), he joined Yngwie Malmsteen's Rising Force and recorded the album \"Odyssey\". The brief tour that followed the release of the album included a concert in Leningrad which was recorded and then released as \"\" (1989). In 1989, he left the band and then joined Deep Purple. Turner recorded one album, \"Slaves and Masters\" (1990). The album peaked at No. 87 on the Billboard Charts, and a relatively successful tour followed in 1991, but Turner left the band in late 1992. He has also put out three albums for the progressive rock band Mother's Army, featuring Jeff Watson, Bob Daisley, and Carmine Appice.\n\nAfter his stints with Rising Force and Deep Purple, Turner spent the mid-90s through 2008, working on his solo career. It was during that time, Turner released an additional nine studio albums and two live albums, to go along with his 1985 offering, \"Rescue You\".\n\nHe also worked with Brazen Abbot, led by Bulgarian guitarist Nikolo Kotzev. Contributing songs he wrote or co-wrote with producer, Bob Held, Turner sang those songs on four studio albums including, \"Eye of the Storm\" (1996); \"Bad Religion\" (1997); \"Guilty As Sin\" (2003); and \"My Resurrection\" (2005). In 2001, Turner took part in the role of \"The Narrator\" in the rock opera, Nikolo Kotzev's \"Nostradamus\". Turner also fronted the band for a majority of their live performances in Bulgaria. As a result, Turner appears on the 2005 documentary style/live performance DVD release entitled, \"A Decade of Brazen Abbot\", as well as the 2015 studio/live compilation release of \"20 Years of Brazen Abbot\".\n\nIn 2000, Turner first approached former Trapeze and Deep Purple bassist, Glenn Hughes to perform some live dates in Japan in support of Turner's sixth solo album, Holy Man. In 2001, the pair formed Hughes Turner Project. The collaboration resulted in two studio albums (HTP and HTP2) and a live album (\"Live In Tokyo\") between 2001 and 2003. In 2005, Hughes and Turner collaborated once more on the Russian studio project Michael Men Project's album \"Made in Moscow\".\n\nThe May 11, 2000 PBS show Between the Lions, featured his vocal on the song \"Clobbered\" in the Season 1, Episode 29 episode entitled, \"Giants and Cubs.\" Another song, \"Very Loud, Very Big, Very Metal,\" was also featured.\n\nOn August 4, 2006, Turner gave a special performance of Rainbow songs with the New Japan Philharmonic at the Metropolitan Art Space in Tokyo, Japan. Later that same year in September 2006, Turner released the first album for Frontiers Records AOR project Sunstorm, with bassist Dennis Ward of German rock band Pink Cream 69 under the title, Sunstorm featuring Joe Lynn Turner. Subsequent albums were released under the name, Sunstorm.\n\nTurner was a guest performer in the Voices of Classic Rock shows.\n\nIn 2007, Turner also appeared as a headliner with AC/DC frontman Brian Johnson on the Classic Rock Cares charity tour, which was organized by longtime friend Steve Luongo, who was the drummer/producer of The John Entwistle Band.\n\nIn 2008, Turner formed Over the Rainbow, a tribute band composed of former Rainbow musicians, including drummer Bobby Rondinelli, bassist Greg Smith, keyboardist Paul Morris and Ritchie Blackmore's eldest son, Jürgen on guitar.\n\nHe was also a member of the touring band Big Noize from 2008-2012. The band featured Turner alongside guitarist Carlos Cavazo, bassist Phil Soussan, and drummer Vinny Appice. In the fall of 2008, the band traveled to Iraq and Kuwait to entertain Multi National Forces. Drummer, Simon Wright, replaced Appice temporarily due to other touring commitments.\n\nTurner also worked with Norwegian bassist and composer Jan Holberg. The two first joined forces on Holberg's 2011 album \"Sense of Time\" which saw Turner performing a more funk-orientated repertoire, showcasing his vocal versatility. The collaboration also resulted in Turner's appearance in a documentary film \"Street of Dreams\" which follows Holberg from Norway as he gets his first real chance of a major breakthrough on tour with his childhood hero Joe Lynn Turner. In 2013 Turner guested on The Jan Holberg Project's second album \"At Your Service\" giving an emotional performance on power ballad \"Jealousy And Pride\".\n\nIn the summer of 2012, he and the Legends Voice of Rock did a gig at the Golden Times Festival in Degerfors, Sweden.\n\nIn 2013 he sang a few songs in a guest role on the Avantasia album \"The Mystery of Time\", released in March.\n\nMarch and April 2013 saw Turner perform as a special guest artist for the Las Vegas show \"Raiding the Rock Vault\" at the LVH Hotel and Casino.\n\nOn February 9, 2015, Turner was a guest singer, alongside the winner Slavin Slavchev, in the final of the third season of \"X Factor Bulgaria\". They sang together \"Street of Dreams\".\n\nIn recent years, Turner has received recognition and distinguished awards from around the world. In 2015, he was named Cultural Ambassador to Bulgaria. That same year, he accepted the Legends of Rock Award in Italy, and the Peacemaker Award in Crimea for the promotion of peace and outstanding contribution to World Art. And in 2016, he received The Man of The Golden Voice Award in Peru.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209330", "title": "Pass of Drumochter", "text": "Pass of Drumochter\n\nThe Pass of Drumochter () meaning simply 'high ridge' is the main mountain pass between the northern and southern central Scottish Highlands. The A9 road passes through here, as does the Highland Line, the railway between Inverness and the south of Scotland. The Sustrans National Cycle Route 7 between Glasgow and Inverness also runs through the pass.\n\nThe pass is the only gap in the main Grampian Watershed suitable for road traffic routes for almost 100 km, between Glencoe (west) and Cairnwell (east); the West Highland Railway is the only other crossing, at Corrour. The pass is a natural low point, where the headwaters of the Spey and Tay penetrate most deeply into the broad Gaick Plateau, with the River Garry flowing south, and the River Truim north. The gap has been shaped into a \"U\" convenient for a transport corridor by glacial action over successive ice ages, although Loch Ericht just to the west is a much larger glacial breach \n\nThe route through the pass has been used since prehistoric times. A military road built between 1728 and 1730 by General Wade came through here.\n\nIt is the high point on the A9, at 460 m (1508 ft), and in winter can be subject to severe weather conditions. There are routine winter patrols from November to March, and the road is occasionally closed with snow gates near Dalwhinnie and Dalnacardoch. The summit of the railway line is 452 m (1480 ft), making it the highest in the UK. It has been used by the RAF as a training route for low level flying, now less frequently.\n\nIt is isolated, and the nearest settlement of any size is the small village of Dalwhinnie, some to the north.\n\nThe summit of the pass marks the boundary between Perth and Kinross and the Highland Council area. A sign at this point says \"Welcome to the Highlands/Fàilte don Ghàidhealtachd\", although this is the boundary for the authority rather than for the Scottish Highlands which extend south to the geological Highland Boundary Fault at Dunkeld.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209332", "title": "Penrhyn Quarry Railway", "text": "Penrhyn Quarry Railway\n\nThe Penrhyn Quarry Railway first opened in 1798 as the Llandegai Tramway; it became the Penrhyn Railway in 1801 although on a different route. Constructed to transport slate from Lord Penrhyn's slate quarries at Bethesda to Port Penrhyn at Bangor, Wales, the railway was around long and used a gauge of . The line was one of the earliest narrow gauge railways in the world. It closed on 24 July 1962, being lifted in 1965 when the track was sold to the Ffestiniog Railway.\n\nIn 2012, a section of the railway southwards from Coed y Parc was restored by Penrhyn Quarries Ltd. and further sections were planned. Events were held each year on the restored section on the line, by Felin Fawr Cyf and PQR Engineering Ltd.\n\nAt the end of 2016 a new company was formed to operate the railway and Penrhyn Rail Ltd operated regular services beginning in February 2017. In July 2017, the railway closed just ahead of the fifth anniversary of operations at Felin Fawr.\n\nThe earliest predecessor to the Penrhyn Quarry Railway was the one mile (1.6 km) long gauge Llandegai Tramway which was built in 1798. The tramway was connected to a local flint mill that ground clay and chert into flints. These were transported to Porth Penrhyn on the coast by the tramway, which was one of the earliest overground railways in Britain. It included two balanced gravity inclines one from the floor of the Cegin valley near Llandegai to the hills above Bangor, the other dropping from there to the mill. Both inclines used vertically mounted winding drums.\n\nThe success of the Llandegai Tramway encouraged the owners of the Penrhyn quarry to consider a similar tramway from their slate quarry to Porth Penrhyn. The plan subsumed the existing tramway into a longer railroad that connected Bethesda to the sea. \n\nConstruction started on 2 September 1800, relaying and extending the Llandegai Tramway, with the first slate train traveling on 25 June 1801. The new railway was also gauge. The connection to the Llandegai flint mill continued to be used until 1831. The railroad was operated by horse power along with gravity and three balanced inclines – \"Port\" (sometimes called \"Marchogion\") near Llandegai, which was inherited from the Llandegai Tramway, \"Dinas\" north east of Tregarth and \"Cilgeraint\" a short distance north of Coed-y-Parc workshops in Bethesda. The longest extended for 220 yards. With hindsight this seems hard work, but the overall gain was remarkable, shown not least by the cost of transport falling from 4 shillings per ton to 1 shilling\n\nBy the early 1870s the Penrhyn Quarry Railway was no longer able to keep up with the output of the Penrhyn quarry. By 1874 the decision had been made to replace the railroad with a steam locomotive worked railway without rope-hauled inclines. Steam locomotives had already been introduced with great success on the quarry's internal railway system and at the nearby Dinorwic Quarry. The Ffestiniog Railway's example had shown that running a 2 ft gauge line for several miles from quarry to sea was perfectly feasible, and that company's Charles Easton Spooner was retained to survey and map possible routes to the port. The Penrhyn directors saw every reason not to follow the Padarn Railway's example and build a main line built to a gauge of 4 ft, joining lines in its quarries to lines in its dock both at a much narrower gauge. All Penrhyn tracks were of the same narrow gauge, so no costly and inefficient internal trans-shipments were needed. At the end of 1875 the first \"mainline\" locomotive was delivered to Port Penrhyn and moved to the quarry workshops at Coed y Parc. The railroad was converted into the new railway in five stages from 1877 to 1878.\n\nThe first locomotives used on the new railway were three De Winton's with horizontal boilers. Although successful, these locomotives were not powerful enough for the substantial traffic that passed down the line. In 1882 the railway ordered 'Charles', a large 0-4-0ST from Hunslet. Charles proved very successful and was followed by 'Blanche' and 'Linda' in 1893 to the same basic design. These locomotives were the mainstay of the railway for the rest of its life.\n\nThere was a significant demand for building materials after the First World War, as Britain recovered from the conflict and many new houses were built to replace slums. The slate industry had been largely mothballed during the conflict, but now found itself in a boom period. Shortly after the war, the quarry began producing Fullersite - ground slate waste - which was shipped in large quantities along the railway. In 1924, with traffic continuing the rise, three additional Baldwin locomotives were purchased. These had been built for war use by the United States Army Transport Corp, and were refurbished before being sold to the railway, but were not successful, and after three years of intermittent use they were put aside. \n\nImmediately after the Second World War, there was a short boom in demand for Welsh slate, to meet reconstruction needs throughout the United Kingdom. However this proved to be a short-lived period of success, and cheap foreign imports of slate and new man-made roofing materials quickly began to eat into the market for the higher-quality and more expensive Penrhyn product. A steady decline in traffic through the 1950s and growth in the use of roads for transporting slates direct from the quarry to market meant the end of the railway was inevitable. In June 1962, the last slate train ran, though a few unofficial trips were run as late as the summer of 1963.\n\nHeading seawards (northwards) from the quarry at Bethesda the first (Cilgeraint) incline was bypassed by building an almost parallel straight line at a gentler end-to-end gradient whose foot was some distance north of the foot of the incline. A similar approach was not feasible for the other two inclines, so the traditional approach was taken – to increase the length of the line to spread the grade. The old route was retained to the head of the Dinas Incline where the new line swung through 180 degrees in a horseshoe bend, thereby changing from heading northeast to southwest. It then swung past a new halt at Tregarth before swinging northwards again past a new halt at Felin Hen, whereafter the line headed more or less straight for Port Penrhyn, meeting the original alignment below the foot of the Marchogion Incline.\n\nThe main line's primary purpose was to carry finished slates and Fullersite (powdered slate) to Port Penrhyn where they were loaded onto ships or, from February 1852 when the Chester and Holyhead Railway opened its Port Penrhyn Branch, onto standard gauge trains. The ships and standard gauge trains took the products to national and international markets. Secondary traffic consisted of slate materials which were finished at workshops at Port Penrhyn into bitumen blocks and, notably, writing slates on which the port had a British near-monopoly in the 1930s. Paying backloads were few, but sufficient coal was brought from the port to the quarries to warrant the company buying a fleet of 50 coal wagons. The line also carried internal user traffic such as spare parts. The intermixing of standard and narrow gauge lines at the port produced some remarkable pointwork.\nLord Penrhyn had his own saloon coach, which has survived into preservation. An example of the second type of passenger vehicle – an Incline Carriage – has survived in the Penrhyn Castle Railway Museum. It was intended for conveying visitors and guests round the quarry itself, having inclined seats for comfort when travelling up and down inclines between levels.\n\nWorkmen's trains were provided, along with specials for visitors and dignitaries, but the railway never provided a public passenger service. The quarrymen's carriages were unsprung and open to the elements, having neither roofs nor doors. In the frequent event of rain and cold passengers usually covered themselves with sacks to keep out the worst. Each carriage could carry 24 quarrymen \"at a pinch\". The carriages resembled enlarged versions of many used on garden railways in fine weather. 16 of these were built in two batches between 1878 and 1908, each bore a single letter in the series A to P. The service was withdrawn on 9 February 1951, rendering the carriages redundant. Seven survived, six were given or sold to the Talyllyn Railway where they were modified or cannibalised to such an extent that no Penrhyn bodies survive there. The seventh survivor was acquired by the Penrhyn Castle Railway Museum, where it remained on view in 2016. Contradicting this to a degree is the Moseley Railway Trust which has carriage \"O\", which came into their hands after a long tour of various preservation sites, starting with Bressingham Steam and Gardens. The trust has also built a replica of carriage \"H\".\n\nPenrhyn Quarries Ltd completed the restoration of a section of the original railway at Felin Fawr, Bethesda in 2012 . To commemorate the 50th. anniversary of the closure of the original railway, original Penrhyn Quarry Hunslet locomotive 'George Sholto' was operated on the restored section.\n\nThe section of restored railway was approximately in length and ran between Coed y Parc bridge (Felin Fawr) (grid ref. SH 615662) and St. Anns (grid ref. SH 614661). A second phase of the restoration was planned which would add a further mile of track running in a southerly direction. \"Open weekends\" with public running were held annually from 2013 onwards. From 2016 onwards, a series of \"Steam Galas\" and regular weekend running with diesel locomotives took place.\n\nWhilst ‘the Penrhyn Quarry Railway Society’ is no longer involved with the team carrying out the restoration work, they continue to record and document the history of the railway. The sympathetic rebuilding of the line - overseen by PQR Engineering Ltd and the operating company Penrhyn Rail Ltd - was supported by ‘the Penrhyn Railway Supporters’, formed in 2013.\n\nIn July 2017, all railway operations ceased at short notice and the rolling stock was removed from the site. The track remained in place in August 2017, but some, that leading to the loco shed and crossing the footpath, was removed in September 2017. This was seen stacked on a flat wagon.\n\nThese are the locomotives that worked trains between the quarry and the port, often known as the \"mainline\" locomotives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209343", "title": "Güímar", "text": "Güímar\n\nGüímar () is the name of a municipality, town and valley in the eastern part of the Spanish island of Tenerife, one of the Canary Islands, and part of Santa Cruz de Tenerife (province). The municipality extends for 1,029 square kilometers from the mountainous interior to the beaches on the Atlantic, and borders the municipalities of La Orotava, Arafo and Fasnia. Its estimated population is 18,589 (2013). The TF-1 motorway passes through the municipality.\n\nThe municipality is famous for its Guanche pyramids. It is also the location of the barranco de Badajoz. A portion of its volcanic landscape has been set aside as the Nature reserve of Malpaís of Güímar, its highest point being Montaña Grande.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209352", "title": "Amari Torayasu", "text": "Amari Torayasu\n\nAmari was succeeded by his son Amari Masatada.\n\nJapanese Politicians of Akira Amari descendants of Torayasu.\n\nIn NHK's 2007 Taiga drama Fūrinkazan, Amari is played by Raita Ryū.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209383", "title": "Anna Falchi", "text": "Anna Falchi\n\nAnna Falchi (; born Anna Kristiina Palomäki; 22 April 1972) is a Finnish-Italian model and film actress.\n\nAnna Falchi was born Anna Kristiina Palomäki in Tampere, Finland, the daughter of an Italian father, Benito (Tito) Falchi, and Finnish mother Karina. Anna has a brother Saro and a half brother in Sweden Peter (by her father). In 1978, at the age of six, she moved to Italy with her family. She started her career as a model. She first appeared on television in a commercial for an Italian bank in 1992. The ad starred Paolo Villaggio, and was directed by the celebrated Federico Fellini. This helped her launch a film career, starting with \"Nel continente nero\" (\"On the Dark Continent\") in 1993.\n\nShe appeared in many films since, including the 1994 fantasy movie \"Desideria e l'Anello del Drago\", the 1997 film \"La principessa e il povero\" and the 2005 comedy \"Nessun messaggio in segreteria\". She has also been a popular television personality, hosting various specials on Italian television.\n\nShe is less known in the English speaking world. Some know her for the lead female role in the film \"Dellamorte Dellamore\", which was released in the U.S. as \"Cemetery Man\".\n\nIn a 2001, Falchi was a guest on the Italian late night show Satyricon, during which she satirized one of the appearances of Madonna on Late Show with David Letterman during which Madonna jokingly teased Letterman for refusing to smell her (Madonna's) panties, Falchi actually took off her red panties on stage, and the host, Daniele Luttazzi went all the way to smell them, which caused some scandal in Italy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209385", "title": "Washburn Tunnel", "text": "Washburn Tunnel\n\nThe Washburn Tunnel is a two-lane underwater motor-vehicle tunnel connecting Galena Park and Pasadena, two suburbs of Houston, Texas. Completed in 1950, it travels north-south underneath the Houston Ship Channel. It was named after Harris County, Texas Auditor Harry L. Washburn. It is the largest and first toll-free vehicular tunnel in the Southern United States.\n\nThe Merritt Chapman and Scott Corporation of New York built the $7 million project. First, a trench by had to be dug. Second, the sections had to be locked into position 85 feet underwater. Finally, the last touches, such as tiling the inside, were completed.\n\nIt is the only underwater vehicle tunnel currently in operation in the state, as the Baytown Tunnel was replaced in 1995 by the Fred Hartman Bridge. The tunnel consists of a single bore, 895 meters (2,909 feet) in length, with a six-percent roadway grade outward from the center towards each exit. Forced transverse ventilation is potentially provided by three automatic high-speed Westinghouse Sturtevant blower fans located in a tower at the north entrance. These fans are designed to keep the air free from high-levels of carbon monoxide.\n\nIn the event of electrical failure, a generator can support the electrical needs of the tunnel. Every twelfth light is powered by a generator. The light intensity at the portals is three times brighter than the interior. This prevents temporary blindness when entering the tunnel.\n\nPumps located under the road surface counter accumulation of water by draining it back into the ship channel. Before Hurricane Ike in 2008, the tunnel had never been flooded.\n\nThe tunnel is one of five vehicular crossings of the Ship Channel. The other four are the Sidney Sherman Bridge, popularly known as the (Interstate) 610 or Ship Channel bridge; the Sam Houston Ship Channel Bridge, formerly the Jesse Jones Toll Bridge and popularly known as the Beltway 8 Bridge; the Fred Hartman Bridge connecting La Porte, Texas and Baytown, Texas; and the Lynchburg Ferry. The tunnel is also the only twenty-four-hour operation in Precinct Two.\n\nThe tunnel was added to the National Register of Historic Places on April 16, 2008.\n\nTotal Cost: $7,683,915 (1950)\n\nTotal Length: 3,791 Ft.\n\nDistance between Portals: 2,936 Ft.\n\nLength of Tube Section: 1,500 Ft.\n\nRoadway Width: 22 Ft.\n\nHeadroom (each lane): 13 Ft.\n\nHeadroom (center Lane): 18 Ft.\n\nInternal Diameter of Tubes: 32 Ft.\n\nExternal Diameter of Tubes: 38 Ft.\n\nMax. Grade: 6%\n\nMax. Dept (Water to top): 45 Ft.\n\nMax. Dept (Water to roadway): 68 Ft.\n\nMax. Dept (water to bottom): 80 Ft.\n\nDredging: 425,273 cu. yards\n\nExcavation: 289,600 cu. yards\n\nTremie Concrete: 11,750 cu. yards\n\nConcrete: 34,250 cu. yards\n\nSteel in tubes: 2,373 tons\n\nCeramic Tile: 1,061,000\n\nNumber of fans: 3\n\nMax Ventilation: 760,000 cfm\n\nComplete Air Exchange: 2 minutes\n\n"}
{"id": "2209388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209388", "title": "Robert P. Watson", "text": "Robert P. Watson\n\nRobert P. Watson is a professor, author, frequent media commentator, and former candidate for the United States House of Representatives.\n\nRobert Watson was born in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania in 1962 and raised in nearby Hershey. Watson attended public schools in Hershey, where he was an all-star athlete in several sports and earned an athletic scholarship to Virginia Tech where he played football and track. Watson received his bachelor's degree from Virginia Tech, in 1985. After graduation, he moved to Florida where he received a master's degree from the University of West Florida in 1987 and his doctorate in public policy from Florida Atlantic University in 1991.\n\nWatson is the author and editor of 36 books on topics in American politics and history, three novels, and has published hundreds of scholarly articles, book chapters, essays, and newspaper editorials. A frequent media commentator, he has been interviewed by local, national, and international print, TV, and radio outlets, including CNN, NBC, ABC, MSNBC, Fox News, The New York Times, BBC, USA Today, and others. For many years, he was a Sunday columnist for the Sun-Sentinel newspaper and analyst for WFTL 850 (AM), WIOD 610 (AM), and WPBT 2 (PBS). He is the political analyst for WPTV 5 (NBC).\n\nWatson has served on the boards of many academic journals and presidential foundations, such as the Calvin Coolidge Memorial Foundation, Harry S. Truman Foundation, Western Social Science Association, International Abraham Lincoln Journal, The Social Science Journal, and others and was the founder and editor of the journal, White House Studies. He has convened or co-convened a half-dozen national conferences on the American presidency, directed the annual Truman Legacy Symposium at The Harry S. Truman Little White House, hosted many community \"town halls\" on current issues, and organized civic education programs for school children.\n\nWatson has won a number of awards, including the 2003 International Abraham Lincoln Center Award, the 2005 Children's Hero Award for the many civics programs he offers area schools, and the Distinguished Professor of the Year and Faculty Service awards at Florida Atlantic University in 2005 and 2006, and Lynn University's Teacher of the Year in 2010 and 2013. His book America's First Crisis (SUNY Press) won the Gold Medal for history at the Independent Publishers' Book Awards in 2015.\n\nWatson has taught at Troy University, Northern Arizona University, the University of Hawaii-Hilo, Florida Atlantic University, and with the Junior Statesman Foundation at Yale, Stanford, and Georgetown. In 2007 he joined Lynn University in Boca Raton, Florida as the Director of American Studies and is also Professor of American Studies. He was instrumental in bringing the Third Presidential Debate of 2012 to Lynn University.\n\nA member of the Democratic Party, Watson formed an exploratory committee in May 2005 to consider running for the United States House of Representatives in Florida's 22nd District, which pitted him against Republican incumbent Rep. Clay Shaw. Watson later withdrew from the race. Shaw was defeated by the eventual Democratic candidate, Ron Klein.\n\nPolitically, Watson has long advocated universal health care, strengthening environmental protections, and the need for reform and integrity in politics. Watson continues to organize political debates, town hall programs, and voter registration drives, and regularly offers public lectures on politics and current issues.\n\nIn 2006, Watson and Yury Konnikov founded the non-profit think tank Think Act Lead, which advocates political reforms and progressive solutions to public problems; the two also serve on the board of the Florida Initiative for Election Reform.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209392", "title": "Michigan Jake", "text": "Michigan Jake\n\nMichigan Jake was a barbershop quartet that formed in 1995. The quartet borrowed the name from Michigan J. Frog, the singing frog in the 1955 Merrie Melodies short \"One Froggy Evening\".\n\nThe original line-up comprised the section leaders of the \"Louisville Times\" chorus of Louisville, Kentucky. After a few changes in the line-up, Michigan Jake won the 2001 International Quartet Contest in Nashville. They announced their retirement on July 1, 2004.\n\nThey will long be remembered for their innovative style, distinctive and natural approach to singing and their amazing understanding of swing rhythms.\n\nAdditional highlights of their career:\n\n5 April 2001 – Michigan Jake is the winner of two Contemporary A Cappella Recording Awards! Beginning to See the Light won best barbershop song of 2000, while For the Record was runner-up for best barbershop album of 2000.\n\n4 October 2001 – Michigan Jake is the winner of a Harmony Award from the Vocal Group Hall of Fame, presented in Sharon, PA. Other 2001 recipients include the Lettermen, the Lennon Sisters, the Chordettes, the Four Freshmen, the Eagles and the Pied Pipers. Michigan Jake is the first barbershop quartet to receive this award.\n\n4 July 2002 – Michigan Jake appears live on \"In Search of America\", a three-hour 4th of July special hosted by Peter Jennings on ABC TV. Other performers include Alicia Keys, Hank Williams, Jr., Sheryl Crow, and Wynton Marsalis. The quartet performed Camptown Races and Dinah in a three-minute segment.\n\n\nThey also appear on \"Steppin Out\" with the Louisville Times Chorus (CD, cassette).\n\n"}
{"id": "2209393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209393", "title": "Accafellas", "text": "Accafellas\n\nThe MSU Accafellas are an all-male, collegiate a cappella group from Michigan State University in East Lansing, Michigan. Founded in 1996, the group typically has between eight and eleven singers. The Accafellas have released 8 albums to date. Their arrangement of Jason Mraz's You and I Both appeared on the Best of College A Capella (BOCA) compilation in 2006. In 2010, The Accafellas performed their arrangements of Walking in Memphis by Marc Cohn and Would You Go With Me in Nashville, Tennessee before the CMA Music Festival with Josh Turner.\n\nThe group often sings at events on the campus of Michigan State, dorms, weddings (often of Accafellas' alumni) as well as various locations around the nation. The group has performed at The White House, as well as Michigan Governor Jennifer Granholm's personal residence.\n\nIn 1997, the Accafellas released their debut album, \"Accafellas Volume I\". It is currently out of print.\nIn 1998, at the University of Michigan’s Monsters of A Cappella concert, the relatively new Accafellas received a standing ovation from a pro-wolverine crowd.\nIn 2000, the Accafellas released a second album, appropriately \"Accafellas Volume II\".\nIn 2004, the Accafellas released \"Accafellas Volume III\". The album feels much more produced than the first two albums, and would be a great influence on future Accafellas' members as a high-quality album to strive to outdo.\nIn 2006, the Accafellas released \"Accafellas Volume IV\". Their version of the song You and I Both originally by Jason Mraz appeared on the Best of College a Cappella compilation that year.\nOn April 4, 2009, the Accafellas released \"Accafellas Volume V\". The album was recorded at Ryan Wert's Elm Street Recording Studio in Lansing, MI. Ryan Wert claimed that Volume V was \"The most ambitious of the CD's (he's) recorded.\" \n\nOn June 11, 2010, the Accafellas performed the song Would You Go With Me with Josh Turner in Nashville, Tennessee, at his fan club party before the CMA Music Festival.\n\nIn Addition, The Accafellas have competed in the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella (ICCA). They have won awards at these competitions for their arrangements and soloists, most notably advancing to the regional semi-finals in 2008, 2013, and 2015.\n<br>In 2012, The Accafellas received two awards at their ICCA quarterfinal. Joe Caigoy won \"Best Soloist\" singing \"Without You\", and Jake Przybyla, Duncan Cooper and Richard Hofmeister won \"Best Arrangement\" for the song \"Clocks\". In 2015, The Accafellas placed 2nd in their ICCA Regional Quarterfinal sending them to the Sectional Semifinals in Ann Arbor. Their set included Hozier's Take Me to Church (Solo: Connor Ralph), Sam Smith's Lay Me Down (Solo: Andrew Lee), and Fall Out Boy's Centuries (Solo: Brad Larsen)\n\nIn 2017, the Accafellas released \"Fella Favorites\", their first greatest hits album. The album was released on itunes, spotify, youtube, and various other streaming sources. This was the group's first album to not be sold as a physical CD copy. The album features 17 songs, 2 from each of their 7 volumes, a song from the 2017 group, and their two alumni songs, \"Wonderful Tonight\" by Eric Clapton, and \"Yellow\" by Coldplay.\n\nThe Accafellas auditioned for Season 1 of NBC's \"The Sing-Off\". They advanced to the interview stage of the show, and were filmed performing Eric Clapton's \"Wonderful Tonight\" outside of the audition venue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209400", "title": "David Givens", "text": "David Givens\n\nDavid Lamar Givens (born August 16, 1980) is a former American football wide receiver in the National Football League. He was drafted by the New England Patriots in the seventh round of the 2002 NFL Draft. He played college football at Notre Dame, primarily as a running back.\n\nGivens also played for the Tennessee Titans.\n\nGivens graduated from Humble High School in Humble, Texas in 1998, the same high school as fellow NFL players David Boston, Bertrand Berry, Sammy Davis Will Peoples and Jackie Battle\n\nGivens caught nine passes and one touchdown his rookie year for the New England Patriots in 2002, and improved in each of the next two seasons. He posted 34 catches and led his team with six touchdowns in 2003 and 56 catches in 2004 despite scoring just three times. His best performances in his career came in the postseason. Beginning with the 2003 AFC Championship Game against the Indianapolis Colts, Givens scored at least one touchdown the Patriots' next seven playoff games, including both Super Bowl XXXVIII and Super Bowl XXXIX. In 2005, Givens caught a career-high 59 passes and was the Patriots' number two receiver for the second year in a row.\n\nIn Super Bowl XXXIX against the Philadelphia Eagles, Givens mocked the wing-flap celebration of Eagles receiver Terrell Owens after catching a four-yard touchdown from Tom Brady.\n\nGivens was the Patriots' record holder in postseason touchdown receptions until 2015, before being surpassed by Rob Gronkowski who scored his eighth playoff touchdown against the Kansas City Chiefs in the Divisional Round of the NFL playoffs on January 20, 2016, and has the second-longest streak of consecutive post-season games with a touchdown reception, with seven.\n\nGivens signed a 5-year deal worth $24 million with the Tennessee Titans on March 14, 2006. His first season with the Titans ended prematurely in Week 10, after he tore his anterior cruciate ligament. He also missed the entire 2007 season. On February 27, 2008, he was released by the Titans. In 2009 Givens sued the Titans for $25 Million claiming that his ACL tear was due to the Titans doctors failing to adequetly test his knee, his lawsuit was dismissed in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209401", "title": "Abd al-Muttalib", "text": "Abd al-Muttalib\n\nAbd al-Muttalib Shaybah ibn Hashim (, \"\", c. 497 – 578) was the grandfather of Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nHis father was Hashim ibn 'Abd Manaf, the progenitor of the distinguished Banu Hashim, a clan of the Quraysh tribe of Mecca. They claimed descent from Ismā'īl and Ibrahim. His mother was Salma bint Amr from the Banu Najjar, a clan of the Khazraj tribe in Yathrib (later called Madinah). Hashim died while doing business in Gaza, before Abd al-Muttalib was born.\n\nHe was given the name \"\"Shaybah\"\" meaning 'the ancient one' or 'white-haired' because of the streak of white through his jet-black hair, and is sometimes also called \"Shaybah al-Ḥamd\" (\"The white streak of praise\"). After his father's death he was raised in Yathrib with his mother and her family until about the age of eight, when his uncle Muttalib ibn Abd Manaf went to see him and asked his mother Salmah to entrust Shaybah to his care. Salmah was unwilling to let her son go and Shaybah refused to leave his mother without her consent. Muṭṭalib then pointed out that the possibilities Yathrib had to offer were incomparable to Mecca. Salmah was impressed with his arguments, so she agreed to let him go. Upon first arriving in Mecca, the people assumed the unknown child was Muttalib's slave, giving him the name \"‘Abd al-Muttalib\" (\"slave of Muttalib\").\n\nWhen Muṭṭalib died, Shaybah succeeded him as the chief of the Hāshim clan. Following his uncle Al-Muṭṭalib, he took over the duties of providing the pilgrims with food and water, and carried on the practices of his forefathers with his people. He attained such eminence as none of his forefathers enjoyed; his people loved him and his reputation was great among them.\n\n‘Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb's grandfather Nufayl ibn Abdul Uzza arbitrated in a dispute between ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib and Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, Abu Sufyan’s father, over the custodianship of the Kaaba. Nufayl gave his verdict in favor of ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib. Addressing Ḥarb ibn Umayyah, he said:\n\nWhy do you pick a quarrel with a person who is taller than you in stature; more imposing than you in appearance; more refined than you in intellect; whose progeny outnumbers yours and whose generosity outshines yours in luster? Do not, however, construe this into any disparagement of your good qualities which I highly appreciate. You are as gentle as a lamb, you are renowned throughout Arabia for the stentorian tones of your voice, and you are an asset to your tribe.\n\n‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib said that while sleeping in the sacred enclosure, he had dreamed he was ordered to dig at the slaughter-place of the Quraysh between the two idols Isāf and Nā’ila. There he would find the Zamzam Well, which the Jurhum tribe had filled in when they left Mecca. The Quraysh tried to stop him digging in that spot, but his son Al-Ḥārith stood guard until they gave up their protests. After three days of digging, ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib found traces of an old well and exclaimed, \"\"Allahuakbar\"!\" Some of the Quraysh disputed his claim to sole rights over water, but in the end they allowed him to keep it. Thereafter he supplied pilgrims to the Kaaba with Zamzam water, which soon eclipsed all the other wells in Mecca because it was considered sacred.\n\nAccording to Muslim tradition, the Ethiopian governor of Yemen, Abrahah al-Ashram, envied the Kaaba's reverence among the Arabs ...\nand, being a Christian, he built a cathedral on Sana'a and ordered pilgrimage be made there. The order was ignored and someone desecrated (some saying in the form of defecation) the cathedral. Abrahah decided to avenge this act by demolishing the Kaaba and he advanced with an army towards Mecca.\n\nThere were thirteen elephants in Abrahah's army and the year came to be known as \"'Ām al-Fīl\" (the Year of the Elephant), beginning a trend for reckoning the years in Arabia which was used until 'Umar ibn Al-Khaṭṭāb replaced it with the Islamic Calendar.\n\nWhen news of the advance of Abrahah's army came, the Arab tribes of Quraysh, Kinānah, Khuzā'ah and Hudhayl united in defense of the Kaaba. A man from the Ḥimyar tribe was sent by Abrahah to advise them that he only wished to demolish the Kaaba and if they resisted, they would be crushed. `Abdul-Muṭṭalib told the Meccans to seek refuge in the nearest high hills while he, with some leading members of Quraysh, remained within the precincts of the Kaaba. Abrahah sent a dispatch inviting ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib to meet him and discuss matters. When ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib left the meeting he was heard saying, \"The Owner of this House is its Defender, and I am sure He will save it from the attack of the adversaries and will not dishonor the servants of His House.\"\n\nIt is recorded that when Abrahah's forces neared the Kaaba, Allah commanded small birds (\"abābīl\") to destroy Abrahah's army, raining down pebbles on it from their beaks. Abrahah was seriously wounded and retreated towards Yemen but died on the way. This event is referred to in the following Qur'anic chapter:\n\nMost Islamic sources place the event around the year that Muhammad was born, 570 CE, though other scholars place it one or two decades earlier. A tradition attributed to Ibn Shihab al-Zuhri in the works of ‘Abd al-Razzaq al-San‘ani places it before the birth of Muhammad's father.\n\nAl-Harith was 'Abdul-Muṭṭalib's only son at the time he dug the Zamzam Well. When the Quraysh were trying to stop his digging, he vowed that if he were to have ten sons to protect him, he would sacrifice one of them to Allah at the Kaaba. Later, after nine more sons had been born to him, he told them he must keep the vow. The divination arrows fell upon his favorite son Abdullah. The Quraysh protested ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib's intention to sacrifice his son and demanded that he sacrifice something else instead. ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib agreed to consult a \"sorceress with a familiar spirit\". She told him to cast lots between Abdullah and ten camels. If Abdullah were chosen, he had to add ten more camels, and keep on doing the same until his Lord accepted the camels in Abdullah's place. When the number of camels reached 100, the lot fell on the camels. ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib confirmed this by repeating the test three times. Then the camels were sacrificed, and Abdullah was spared.\n\nOne day Muhammad's mother, Amina, wanted to go to Medina, where her husband and his son, Abdullah, died. So, Muhammad, Amina, Abd al-Muttalib and their slave, Umm Ayman started their journey to Medina, which is around 500 kilometers away from Mecca. They stayed there for three weeks, then, started their journey back to Mecca. But, when they reached halfway, at Al-Abwa', Amina became very sick and died. She was buried over there. From then, Muhammaad became an orphan. Abd al-Muttalib became very sad for Muhammad because he loved him so much. Abd al-Muttalib took care of Muhammad. But when Muhammad was eight years old, the very old Abd al-Muttalib became very sick and died at age 81.\n\nAbdul-Muttalib had six known wives.\n\n\nAccording to Ibn Hisham, ‘Abdul-Muṭṭalib had ten sons and six daughters. However, Ibn Saad lists twelve sons.\n\nBy Sumrah bint Jandab:\n\nBy Fatimah bint Amr:\n\nBy Lubnā bint Hājar:\n\nBy Halah bint Wuhayb:\n\nBy Natīlah bint Khubāb:\n\nBy Mumanna'a bint 'Amr:\n\n\nAbdul Muttalib's son ‘Abdullāh died four months before Muḥammad's birth, after which Abdul Muttalib took care of his daughter-in-law Āminah. Āminah died six years later, and Abdul Muttalib looked after Muhammad until his own death in 578 CE.\n\nShaybah ibn Hāshim's grave can be found in the Jannat al-Mu'allā cemetery in Mecca, Saudi Arabia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209402", "title": "Alpes Maritimae", "text": "Alpes Maritimae\n\nAlpes Maritimae () was a province of the Roman Empire. It was one of the three provinces straddling the Alps between modern France and Italy, along with Alpes Poeninae and Alpes Cottiae. The province included parts of the present-day French departments of Alpes-Maritimes, Alpes-de-Haute-Provence and Hautes-Alpes.\n\nFounded in 14 BC by Augustus, Alpes Maritimae initially had its capital at \"\" (modern Cimiez), currently a neighbourhood within the city of Nice, France. \n\nIn 297, the province was extended to the north and north-west as far as the River Durance (Druentia) and the Montgenèvre Pass. Its capital was transferred to \"Civitas Ebrodunensium\", known today as Embrun.\n\nIn the 3rd century the province became part of the Diocese of Vienne, which was in turn part of the Prefecture of Gaul.\n\nMajor settlements within the province included:\n\nAfter 297 the province was expanded to include:\n"}
{"id": "2209405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209405", "title": "Marin Hinkle", "text": "Marin Hinkle\n\nMarin Elizabeth Hinkle (born March 23, 1966) is an Tanzanian-American actress. Among many television and movie roles, she is best known for playing Judith Harper-Melnick on the CBS sitcom \"Two and a Half Men\", Judy Brooks on the ABC television drama \"Once and Again\", and Rose Weissman in \"The Marvelous Mrs. Maisel\". For her role in \"Maisel\", Hinkle was nominated for the Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Comedy Series in 2019.\n\nHinkle was born in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, to American parents. She is the daughter of Margaret R. (Polga) Hinkle, a judge of the Superior Court of Massachusetts, and Rodney Hinkle, a college dean and teacher, who met while serving in the Peace Corps. Her family moved to Boston, Massachusetts, when she was four months old. Two years later, her brother Mark was born. After graduating from Newton South High School, she attended Brown University and New York University's Graduate Acting Program at the Tisch School of the Arts, graduating in 1991.\n\nShe originally planned to be a professional ballerina, but after an ankle injury permanently ended the possibilities at the age of 16, she decided to take up acting.\n\nHinkle played Juliet in \"Romeo and Juliet\" opposite Jean Stapleton playing the Nurse at the Shakespeare Theatre Company in Washington DC from January 25 to March 13, 1994 at the Lansburgh Theatre in Washington DC. On Broadway, Hinkle played Kuroko and was understudy for Miranda in \"The Tempest\" from November 1, 1995 to December 31, 1995 at the Broadhurst Theatre. She played Sandra Markowitz in \"A Thousand Clowns\" from July 14, 1996 to August 10, 1996 at the Criterion Center Stage Right. She also played Chrysothemis in \"Electra\" from December 3, 1998 to March 21, 1999 at the Ethel Barrymore Theatre. Hinkle started her TV career on the soap opera \"Another World\". She also portrayed Judy Brooks on ABC's drama series \"Once and Again\" from 1999 to 2002. Hinkle starred on the CBS sitcom \"Two and a Half Men\" with Charlie Sheen, Jon Cryer, Angus T. Jones and later Ashton Kutcher as Alan's (Cryer) neurotic ex-wife, Judith. Despite being a main cast member, she rarely made appearances after the show's eighth season. She was quietly phased out of the series, and her last appearances as a regular were in the ninth season of the series. She made only one appearance each in the last three seasons, though she was still credited as a regular. This may have been due to commitments to her new role as Samantha Bowers in the NBC drama series \"Deception\" with Tate Donovan, Victor Garber and Katherine LaNasa. \n\nHinkle has had roles in films such as \"I'm Not Rappaport, Frequency, The Next Big Thing, I Am Sam\", and \"Dark Blue\". She has also performed on the stage in 2005 as \"Miss Julie\", opposite Reg Rogers, in the 1888 play of that name by August Strindberg (Rattlestick Playwrights Theatre, New York) (see \"New Yorker\", 30 May 2005). Hinkle has also appeared in the thriller genre, starring in the 2008 thrillers \"Quarantine\" and \"The Haunting of Molly Hartley.\" She has made guest appearances on shows such as \"Spin City\", \"\", \"Without a Trace\", \"ER\", \"House\", and twice as characters on \"Law & Order\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2209406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209406", "title": "Kelvin Hayden", "text": "Kelvin Hayden\n\nKelvin Darnell Hayden Jr. (born July 24, 1983) is a former American football cornerback. He played college football at Illinois and was drafted by the Indianapolis Colts in the second round of the 2005 NFL Draft. In Super Bowl XLI he returned a Rex Grossman interception (the first of his career) 56 yards for a touchdown in a win over the Chicago Bears. Hayden also played for the Atlanta Falcons and Chicago Bears.\n\nHayden attended Chicago's Hubbard High School, where he was a four-year starter in football. As a freshman cornerback, he was a first team All-PowerBar team selection and an All-Area selection after posting ten interceptions. As a sophomore quarterback, he passed for 21 touchdowns and rushed for seven more scores. As a junior tailback, he rushed for , and was an All-Conference pick and an All-Area selection.\n\nHayden was a Chicago Bears fan during his youth.\n\nHayden attended Joliet Junior College for two years, where he finished his career with 115 receptions for 1,839 yards (16.13 yards per rec. avg.) and 17 touchdowns and was a two-time All-Conference and an All-Region pick. After losing his first junior college game, he led Joliet JC to 21 consecutive victories and the 2002 NJCAA National Championship.\n\nAs a sophomore, he was the NJCAA National Offensive National Player of the Year, won first team JC All-America accolades, and was named the Conference Player of the Year, after making 72 receptions for 1,297 yards(18.1 yards per rec. avg.) and 13 touchdowns. He was also named the MVP of the 2002 NCAA National Championship game. As a freshman, he made 42 receptions for 542 yards (12.9 yards per rec. avg.) and four touchdowns. He then transferred to Illinois.\n\nIn 2003, Hayden led the Fighting Illini in receptions and receiving yards with 52 receptions for 592 yards. Prior to the 2004 season, he switched to cornerback. He started all 11 games and had 71 tackles and four interceptions.\n\nHayden was drafted in the second round (60th overall) by the Indianapolis Colts.\n\nIn his second season, Hayden recorded his first career interception in Super Bowl XLI when he took a Rex Grossman pass 56 yards for a touchdown, en route to a Colts 29-17 victory over the Chicago Bears. His stats as a Colt were 239 total tackles and 9 interceptions, including three returned for touchdowns. Hayden also scored a touchdown on a 26-yard fumble recovery in a game against the Philadelphia Eagles during the 2006 season.\n\nHayden had 16 total tackles and two interceptions during his one-year tenure in Atlanta.\n\nOn April 5, 2012, he signed with the Chicago Bears on a 1-year contract worth $825,000. In Week 9 against the Tennessee Titans, Hayden recovered two forced fumbles. In 2012, Hayden and four other players led the league in defensive fumble recoveries with four. Despite becoming an unrestricted free agent in 2013, on March 26, Hayden signed a one-year deal to return to the Bears. On August 7, 2013, the Bears announced that Hayden suffered a torn hamstring and would miss the entire 2013 season. The injury occurred during Family Fest practice at Soldier Field on August 3, 2013. Hayden was eventually placed on injured reserve. Hayden became a free agent after the 2013 season, but was resigned on February 28, 2014. On August 30, 2014, the Bears waived him along with others during their final roster cuts. On September 2, 2014, he was re-signed by the Bears to fill an opening on the roster when wide receiver Marquess Wilson was placed on injured reserve. On September 13, 2014, the Bears released him and two others as they needed to fill some depth due to multiple injuries.\n\nHayden got engaged to Taraji P. Henson on May 13, 2018. \n\n"}
{"id": "2209414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209414", "title": "See That My Grave Is Kept Clean", "text": "See That My Grave Is Kept Clean\n\n\"See That My Grave Is Kept Clean\" is a song recorded by American blues musician Blind Lemon Jefferson in two slightly differing versions in October 1927 and February 1928 that became \"one of his most famous compositions\". Son House used the melody on his 1930 recording of \"Mississippi County Farm Blues\".\n\nBob Dylan recorded the song for his 1962 debut album \"Bob Dylan\". He recorded it again with the Band, which is included on \"The Basement Tapes\".\n\nOther artists to cover the song include B.B. King, Peter, Paul and Mary (as \"One Kind Favor\"), Lightnin' Hopkins (as \"One Kind Favor\"), Canned Heat (as \"One Kind Favor\" on \"Living the Blues\"), the Grateful Dead (as \"One Kind Favor\"), Mike Bloomfield, Keiji Haino, Diamanda Galás, Meindert Talma & the Negroes, Laibach, Lou Reed, Furry Lewis, Chrome Cranks, the Dream Syndicate, Dave Van Ronk, Hobart Smith, Mavis Staples, Martin Simpson, Thelonious Monster and Widespread Panic. Staples' version of the song from her 2015 album \"Your Good Fortune\" won the 2016 Grammy Award for Best American Roots Performance.\n\nPat Donohue performed this song as \"One Kind Favor\" live on Garrison Keillor's \"A Prairie Home Companion\". It was later released on Donohue's CD \"Radio Blues\".\n\nThe British band Half Man Half Biscuit recorded a parody titled \"See That My Bike's Kept Clean\" on their 1997 album \"Voyage to the Bottom of the Road\".\n\nThe American Death Rock band Wages of Sin recorded this song on their 2019 album \"Sin and Sinners\".\n"}
{"id": "2209417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209417", "title": "Byron Preiss", "text": "Byron Preiss\n\nByron Preiss (April 11, 1953 – July 9, 2005) was an American writer, editor, and publisher. He founded and served as president of Byron Preiss Visual Publications, and later of ibooks Inc.\n\nA native of Brooklyn, New York City, Byron Preiss graduated magna cum laude from the University of Pennsylvania in 1972, and earned a master's degree in communications from Stanford University.\n\nIn 1971, while Preiss was teaching at a Philadelphia elementary school, he conceived, and with Jim Steranko, produced an anti-drug comic book, \"The Block\", designed for low-level reading skills. Published by Steranko's company, Supergraphics, it was distributed to schools nationwide.\n\nHe founded Byron Preiss Visual Publications in 1974 to publish original works, including \"Weird Heroes\" (1975). His 1976 \"Fiction Illustrated\" series of illustrated novels began with \"Schlomo Raven: Public Detective\", a Preiss collaboration with Tom Sutton, followed by \"Starfawn\", illustrated by Stephen Fabian, Steranko's \"\" and the 1977 \"Son of Sherlock Holmes\", illustrated by Ralph Reese. Other publications included a 1978 adaptation of Alfred Bester's \"The Stars My Destination\" as a two-volume graphic novel, illustrated by Howard Chaykin.\n\nAs a book packager, he developed titles for such publishers as HarperCollins and Random House. One such project, created in conjunction with the Bank Street College of Education, resulted in a series of educational comic books adapting well-known genre authors: \"The Bank Street Book of Creepy Tales\", \"The Bank Street Book of Fantasy\", \"The Bank Street Book of Mystery\" and \"The Bank Street Book of Science Fiction\".\n\nHe published children's books by celebrities, including Billy Crystal, Jane Goodall, Jay Leno, LeAnn Rimes and Jerry Seinfeld, and worked closely with such established illustrators as Ralph Reese, William Stout and Tom Sutton.\n\nPreiss was co-author, with Michael Reaves, of the children's novel \"Dragonworld\" (Doubleday, 1979), with 80 illustrations by Joseph Zucker. \"Dragonworld\" was originally planned to be the fifth \"Fiction Illustrated\" title.\n\nIn 1982, Preiss published \"The Secret\", a puzzle book that combined 12 short verses and 12 elaborate fantasy paintings by John Jude Palencar. Readers were expected to pair each painting with a verse in a way that would provide clues to finding one of 12 plexiglass boxes buried in various parks around North America. Each box contained a ceramic box that contained a key that could be redeemed for a jewel worth $1,000. The book was inspired by the success of \"Masquerade\", written and illustrated by Kit Williams and published in England in August 1979, but \"The Secret\" never led to the same level of treasure hunting frenzy. One of the ceramic boxes was found in Chicago in 1983, one in Cleveland in 2004, and one in Boston in October 2019. The remaining nine boxes have yet to be found, and reportedly Preiss was the only one who knew where they were when he died.\n\nBeyond traditional printed books, Preiss frequently embraced emerging technologies, and was among the first to publish in such electronic forms as CD-ROM books and ebooks. \"The Words of Gandhi\", an audiobook he produced, won a Grammy Award in 1985.\n\nPreiss was married to Sandi Mendelson, with whom he had daughters Karah and Blaire. On July 9, 2005, he died in a traffic accident at East Hampton, New York, on Long Island.\nBoth Byron Preiss Visual Publications and ibooks Inc. filed for Chapter 7 Bankruptcy on February 22, 2006, after his death.\n\n\"Published by Preiss, or packaged by Preiss for other publishers\"\n\n\nThis illustrated children's novel by Byron Preiss and Michael Reaves was published in several editions from 1979 to 2005:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209422", "title": "Arapaho language", "text": "Arapaho language\n\nThe Arapaho (Arapahoe) language () is one of the Plains Algonquian languages, closely related to Gros Ventre and other Arapahoan languages. It is spoken by the Arapaho of Wyoming and Oklahoma. Speakers of Arapaho primarily live on the Wind River Indian Reservation in Wyoming, though some have affiliation with the Cheyenne living in western Oklahoma.\n\nArapaho is an Algonquian language of the Algic family.\n\nBy the 1850s, Arapaho bands formed two tribes: the Northern Arapaho and Southern Arapaho. Since 1878 the Northern Arapaho have lived with the Eastern Shoshone on the Wind River Reservation in Wyoming and are federally recognized as the Arapahoe Tribe of the Wind River Reservation. The Southern Arapaho live with the Southern Cheyenne in Oklahoma. Together their members are enrolled as the federally recognized Cheyenne and Arapaho Tribes.\n\nAfter World War 2, the Northern Arapaho tribe tended to use English, not Arapaho, when raising their children. However, Arapaho speakers within the tribe still primarily speak Arapaho amongst each other. The Northern Arapaho additionally have had relatively less intermingling with other tribes and non-Native Americans compared to the Southern Arapaho who live amongst a predominantly non-Native American population.\n\nThe exact number of Arapaho speakers is not precisely known; however it has been estimated that the language currently retains between 250 and 1,000 active users. Arapaho has limited development outside of the home; however, it is used in some films and the Bible was translated into the language in 1903. According to one source, under 300 people over the age of 50 speak the language in Wyoming, and in Oklahoma the language is used by \"only a handful of people . . . all near eighty or older\". As of 1996, there were approximately 1,000 speakers among the Northern Arapaho. As of 2008, the authors of a newly published grammar estimated that there were slightly over 250 fluent speakers, plus \"quite a few near-fluent passive understanders\". In 2008, it was reported that a school had been opened to teach the language to children. Arapaho language camps were held in Summer 2015 at Wind River Tribal College and in St. Stephens, Wyoming. Currently, the language may be acquired by children, for a population estimate as recent as 2007 lists an increase to 1,000 speakers and notes that the language is in use in schools, bilingual education efforts begun on Wind River Reservation in the 1980s and the Arapaho Language Lodge, a successful immersion program, was established in 1993. \"The Arapaho Project\" is an effort made by the Arapaho people to promote and restore their traditional language and culture. Despite hope for the language, its relatively few active users and the fact that it has seen recent population decreases render Arapaho an endangered language. Ethnologue deems it \"threatened,\" meaning that some children are learning it but it is threatened by other languages and it may be losing speakers.\n\nBesawunena, only attested from a wordlist collected by Kroeber, differs only slightly from Arapaho, though a few of its sound changes resemble those seen in Gros Ventre. It had speakers among the Northern Arapaho as recently as the late 1920s.\n\nAmong the sound changes in the evolution from Proto-Algonquian to Arapaho are the loss of Proto-Algonquian *k, followed by *p becoming either or ; the two Proto-Algonquian semivowels merging to either or ; the change from *s to in word-initial position, and *m becoming or depending on the following vowel. Arapaho is unusual among Algonquian languages in retaining the contrast between the reconstructed phonemes *r and *θ (generally as and , respectively). These and other changes serve to give Arapaho a phonological system very divergent from that of Proto-Algonquian and other Algonquian languages, and even from languages spoken in the adjacent Great Basin. Some examples comparing Arapaho words with their cognates in Proto-Algonquian can illustrate this:\n\nAt the level of pronunciation, Arapaho words cannot begin with a vowel, so where the underlying form of a word begins with a vowel, a prothetic is added.\n\nArapaho has a series of four short vowels (pronounced ) and four long vowels (customarily written and pronounced ). The difference in length is phonemically distinctive: compare hísiʼ, \"tick\" with híísiʼ, \"day\", and hócoo, \"steak\" with hóócoo, \"devil\". and are mostly in complementary distribution, as, with very few exceptions, the former does not occur after velar consonants, and the latter only occurs after them. does have some exceptions as in the free variants kokíy ~ kokúy, \"gun\"; kookiyón ~ kookuyón, \"for no reason\"; and bííʼoxíyoo ~ bííʼoxúyoo, \"Found in the Grass\" (a mythological character). There is only one minimal pair to illustrate the contrast in distribution: núhuʼ, \"this\" versus níhiʼ-, \"X was done with Y\", in which níhiʼ- only occurs in bound form.\n\nRemarkably, unlike more than 98% of the world's languages, Arapaho has no low vowels, such as .\n\nIn addition, there are four diphthongs, , and several triphthongs, as well as extended sequences of vowels such as with stress on either the first or the last vowel in the combination.\n\nThe consonant inventory of Arapaho is given in the table below. When writing Arapaho, is normally transcribed as , as , as , and as .\n\nThe phoneme /b/ (the voiced bilabial stop) has a voiceless allophone [p] that occurs before other consonants or at the end of a word. The plosives , /k/, and /t/ are pronounced without aspiration in most environments, but are aspirated before other consonants or at the end of a word, or when preceding a syllable-final sequence of short vowel + /h/. In this same environment /b/ is aspirated and devoiced. For example, the grammatical prefix cih- is pronounced , the grammatical prefix tih- is pronounced , and the word héétbihʼínkúútiinoo, \"I will turn out the lights\" is hetihʼínkúútiinoo.\n\nSyllables tend to have the structure CV(C), where the final consonant, if it is present, is either a single consonant, or /hC/. In general, consonant clusters in Arapaho can only be two consonants long. Consonant clusters do not occur word initially, and /hC/ is the only that occurs word finally. The only consonant cluster that is \"base generated\" (exists in the most underlying representation of words) is /hC/. At the \"surface\" (at the level of actual pronunciation), other clusters arise by phonological processes including vowel syncope, or by juxtaposition of morphemes.\n\nVowel-initial, onset-less syllables, however, can occur due to partitioning of vowel clusters. An example of partitioning a cluster of 3 identical vowels into syllables is ní.ii.non, \"tepee.\" The vowel cluster is not always split into short vowel followed by long vowel; the location of the partition depends on Arapaho's complex pitch accent system. For example, another word with a sequence of 3 vowels, but with a different partitioning of vowels into syllables is hóo.ó. \"bed.\"\n\nHowever, sometimes the vowel cluster does not divide and the whole cluster becomes the nucleus of the syllable. One example is hi.héio, \"his/her aunt (obviative).\"\n\nArapaho is a pitch accent language. There are two phonemic tones: high (marked with an acute accent) or \"normal\" (unmarked). The contrast can be illustrated with the pair hónoosóóʼ, \"it is fancy\" and honoosóóʼ, \"it is raining.\" Long vowels and vowel sequences can carry a contour tone from high to low, as in hou3íne-, \"to hang\" (where the first syllable has a normal tone) versus hóu3íne-, \"to float\" (where the first syllable has a high+normal, or falling, tone). Although tonal contrasts are distinctive in Arapaho, minimal pairs such as those listed above are rare.\n\nArapaho is polysynthetic; verbs in particular take multiple morphemes.\n\nNouns in Arapaho come in two classes: animate and inanimate. Which category a noun belongs to is part of the lexicon. Being animate does not necessitate “aliveness” (but aliveness does mean animate): doors, planets, ghosts, etc. are considered animate. Some nouns can also be both animate and inanimate, but in these situations, the animate version is more “active” (e.g. a log is inanimate, but a rolling log is animate).\n\nAnimate nouns can be made obviative or proximate.\n\nWhen the underlying noun is consonant final, two general patterns can occur. One pattern occurs for the class of nouns that have /ii/ or /uu/ (depending on vowel harmony) as their plural marker. These nouns reuse the plural marker to mark obviative singular and both obviative and proximate plural. For example, /iwoxuuh/, a stem meaning 'elk,' is \"hiwóxuu\" in the proximate singular, but becomes \"hiwóxuuh-uu\" in obviative singular, proximate plural, and obviative plural.\n\nThe other pattern occurs for most other consonant final noun stems and is summarized in the table below. C denotes the final consonant and the bracketed [C] denotes either consonant mutation of C or deletion of some number of stem-final phonemes. /siisiik/ is 'duck'.\n\nFor vowel-final stems, the general pattern is a variation of the first consonant final pattern. Namely, a single marker is used to mark all plural forms and the obviative singular form. For example, /ote/\",\" a stem meaning 'sheep, bighorn sheep,' becomes \"hóte-’ in proximate singular but \"hóte-ii in both plural forms and the obviative singular.\n\nVerbs are divided into classes depending on the transitivity and animacy of their argument(s). Transitivity of a verb affects how many arguments are affixed to the verb. Notice in the examples below the usage of the transitive form requires the addition of INAN, the inanimate marker for the object (the shoes). Verbal inflection also depends on \"orders\" like imperative.\n\nIntransitive, Animate Subject (AI)\n\nTransitive, Inanimate Object (TI)\nInitial change (IC) can mark tense and aspect (in particular, \"present tense and ongoing aspect or present perfect tense and aspect\") under affirmative and conjunct orders. Differing phonological changes occur depending on the first vowel of the stem. If the vowel is short, it is lengthened. For example, \"be’éé-\" 'to be red' becomes \"bee’éé’\" 'it is red'. Otherwise, an infix is placed before the first vowel. The infix is either /en/ or /on/ and is determined based on harmony with the long vowel. For example, \"hoowúsee-\" ('to walk downward') becomes \"honoowúseenoo\" ('I am walking downward').\n\nIf the first vowel is short and is followed by an /h/, some speakers treat the /h/ as a vowel and use the infix /en/ or /on/ to mark initial change. Other speakers treat the /h/ as a consonant and perform the vowel lengthening process instead.\n\nAn irregular form of initial change affects some vowel-initial preverbs by appending an /n/ before the first vowel, rather than the ordinary /h/ that would be prepended to avoid a vowel-initial word. For example, the imperfective /ii/ morpheme becomes \"nii-\" instead of the expected \"hii-\" when prefixing verbs that would undergo initial change.\n\nIn sentences with an explicit noun phrase, separate from the verb, the verb agrees with the noun in terms of animacy, number, and whether the noun is proximate or obviative. The grammatical category, including person, of the noun also needs to agree with the verb. Note that the categories of subject and object do not affect agreement inflection. As an example of animacy agreement, the intransitive verb for \"to fall\" has a form that takes an inanimate subject, \"nihtéésceníse’\" (PAST-on top-fall(II)-0S) and a form that takes an animate subject, \"nihtéés'cenísi.\"\n\nIf a verb has a single noun argument that is composed of two different types of noun, most speakers default to the obviative (over proximate) and inanimate (over animate) forms to refer to the composite noun argument in case of conflict. This can be seen in the example below where 'walk' takes an argument that is composed of a composite proximate and obviative noun. Both nouns are animate, but there is conflict regarding proximate or obviative. The verb thus defaults to the obviative plural (4PL). \n\nArapaho has a number of derivational affixes and processes. Some operate on nouns to form verb-like clauses. For example, the morpheme /tohúút/ can prefix a noun to ask 'what kind of <noun>'. A specific example is \"hoséíno’\" ('meat') when prefixed becomes \"tohúút-oséíno’\" ('What kind of meat is this?') \n\nDerivational morphology on verbs can be grouped into abstract and concrete. Abstract morphemes mark transitivity and the animacy of subject/object for the verb. For example, the basic root /be'/ \"red\" can be marked with abstract morphemes as follows\n\n\nConcrete morphemes tend to add three types of meanings to the verb\n\n\nReduplication is prefixal and is formed by taking the first consonant (if there is one) and the first vowel and then adding /:n/, where the colon indicates that the preceding vowel is elongated. The /n/ is deleted in the presence of a subsequent consonant. For example, \"cebísee-\" ('to walk past') after reduplication becomes \"cée[n]cebísee-\" ('to walk back and forth past').\n\nThere are multiple usages of reduplication in Arapaho including pluralizing implied, secondary, and inanimate objects of (di)transitive verbs; indicating repeating and habitual action (extend the space and time a verb occurs in general), and intensifying. One example of marking repeating action is as follows \n\nThere can be multiple reduplications in compound words, where each reduplication can have an independent effect. Some verbs appear to be only in a reduplicated form; these verbs tend to describe repeating, iterative action.\n\nArapaho has no canonical word order. Some sentences/clauses consist of only the verb like below. \n\nWhen a sentence contains a verb and a single noun phrase, the noun phrase can either precede or follow the verb. Preposing the noun phrase, however, gives it more importance and salience. Some instances where noun phrases are preposed include introducing a new referent (or reintroducing one that was inactive) and creating contrast.\n\nV-NP order\n\nNP-V order (additional context: a new referent, \"stone monuments,\" is being introduced)\nFor a basic sentence with a single verb that takes two noun phrases as arguments, all orderings are possible, but having the verb final is less common.\n\nA hierarchy exists in determining which noun phrase goes in which position. In the listing below, the first in the pair is treated as \"higher\" in the hierarchy and tends therefore to be the leftmost NP.\n\n\nSubject-verb-object order\n\nVerb-subject-(implied) object order\n\nSaliency determines whether a noun phrase can precede its corresponding verb. Noun phrases are deemed salient if they are referring to something new, something that is being reintroduced, something contrastive, or something that is being emphasized.\n\nPreposed NP (here, the noun phrase meaning \"where the attack was taking place\" precedes the verb \"see\" to create emphasis)\n\nBoth NPs preceding Verb (uncommon) (additional context: occurs under \"contrastive focus\")\nGenerally, noun modifiers occur before the noun. These modifiers additionally tend to occur in a particular order relative each other. For example, in the example below, note that the presentative 'here is' occurs before the demonstrative 'this'\n\nSome particles are more closely linked to verbs; these particles generally precede the verb and are often neighboring the corresponding verb.\n\nParticle expressing potential\nParticle expressing recent past\nAdverbials are a type of particle. Unlike other particles in Arapaho, however, they are not a closed class and are instead derived from or composed of other morphemes. One purpose of adverbial construction is to emphasize a morpheme by extracting it from a verb and having it stand alone. Another purpose is to convey meaning outside of what can normally be attached to a verb.\n\nAdverbials are constructed by appending /iihi'/ (which can become /uuhu'/ after vowel harmony) to the end of the root.\n\nA common usage of adverbials is to modify verbs. Adverbials can also act like prepositions and modify noun phrases; such adverbials can occur before or after the noun phrase and are thus exceptions to the rule that nominal modifiers prepose the noun (see example below).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209432", "title": "Inelastic mean free path", "text": "Inelastic mean free path\n\nThe inelastic mean free path (IMFP) is an index of how far an electron on average travels through a solid before losing energy.\n\nIf a monochromatic primary beam of electrons is incident on a solid surface, the majority of incident electrons lose their energy because they interact strongly with matter, leading to plasmon excitation, electron-hole pair formation, and vibrational excitation. The intensity of the primary electrons, formula_1, is damped as a function of the distance, \"d\", into the solid. The intensity decay can be expressed as follows:\n\nwhere formula_3 is the intensity after the primary electron beam has traveled through the solid to a distance formula_4. The parameter formula_5, termed the inelastic mean free path (IMFP), is defined as the distance an electron beam can travel before its intensity decays to formula_6 of its initial value. (Note that this is equation is closely related to the Beer-Lambert law.)\n\nThe inelastic mean free path of electrons can roughly be described by a universal curve that is the same for all materials.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209437", "title": "Police academy", "text": "Police academy\n\nA police academy is a training school for police recruits. It is also known as a law enforcement academy, college, or university. It involves a variety of background checks. These include examinations, physical requirements, medical requirements, legal training, driving skills, equipment training, and firearm training for law enforcement recruits. The academy prepares recruits for the law enforcement agency they will be assigned to upon graduation.\n\nIn Australia, the states and mainland territories run a centralised academy for the training of law enforcement personnel for agencies within a given state or territory.\n\nThe academies ensure that officers meet basic local, state and federal standards. Graduation from an approved academy program is usually required before a new law enforcement officer is placed on active duty.\n\nThe New South Wales Police Academy, Victoria Police Academy, Queensland Police Academy, Tasmania Police Academy, South Australia Police Academy, Northern Territory Police Academy, Western Australia Police Academy and the Queensland Police Academy are state police, initial training institutions. The smaller yet distinguished Australian Federal Police College located in Barton, Canberra trains AFP recruits.\n\nIn Azerbaijan, the Police Academy was established in 1921 by the People's Internal Affairs Commissariat of the Azerbaijan Republic and it continued to function in Baku until 1936 when the main building of the Academy was moved to Mərdəkan (a district outside Baku). \n\nIn 1957, it became the Baku Private Secondary Police School of the United Soviet Socialist Republic Ministry of Internal Affairs. The graduates were granted legal diplomas. Initially, education spanned two years. In 1957–1961 the school trained personnel for Georgia, Dagestan, Kabarda- Balkaria, Altai, Irkutsk, Krasnodar, Kuybyshev, Novosibirsk, Kemerovo, Saratov and other states within the USSR.\n\nThe main purpose of the Academy is to educate students regarding the law as well as specialised training for employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs. \n\nAll candidates are expected to pass an entry examination composed mostly of fitness requirements. A candidate who does not meet the physical fitness requirements, or fails assessments such as medical or MIA checks are considered to be disqualified from the competition. Applicants must be a citizen of Republic of Azerbaijan is a requirement with no criminal record. The successful candidates graduate after studying for 5 years at the academy.\n\nDuring the course of study, students of Academy are provided with dormitories, uniforms, scholarships, and meals. Men and women are placed in separate dormitories on campus.\n\nAfter graduation, the candidates are assigned police ranks and they are given positions within the Ministry of Internal Affairs. The Academy studies other countries by sending officers to Germany, Austria, England, Spain, Hungary, Poland, and other countries, as well as within Russia.\n\nIn Bangladesh, the Bangladesh Police Academy trains recruits of the Bangladesh Police. It also offers refreshment training for previous graduates. Each law enforcement includes specialised training and study durations.\n\n\nThe Cyprus Police Academy, (Greek: Αστυνομική Ακαδημία Κύπρου), is the main educational institution for law enforcement officers in the Republic of Cyprus. Founded in 1990 as the successor to the Police Training School, the CPA is recognised as an Institution of Higher Education by the Cyprus Council for the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications. The CPA operates under the Ministry of Justice and Public Order as a Police Unit within the organizational structure of the Cyprus Police. It functions on a permanent basis, both for the education of Cadet Constables and for the training of all Police members, regardless of rank, as part of officers' continuing education. Some legal courses are also conducted for non-police officers.\n\nThe Police Education and Training Unit (PETU) was established in 2015 and is the leading agency regarding all education and training of the police forces for the Czech Republic. In the Czech Republic, the Police Academy is a university-level institution, where specialised training for police, public administration, and private security services is provided. Some branches are open to civilians while some are only for police officers and other para-military groups such as firefighters and soldiers. The schools are open to recruits holding advanced educational degrees (bachelor's degree or higher).\n\nBasic training centers for recruits are called \"secondary police schools\" and every law enforcement officer must advance through one of these centers. In this system, \"senior police schools\" still exist that have the educational status of \"higher learning\", where specialisations are offered.\n\nMunicipal police may have access to several training centers, and some larger cities have their own dedicated campuses. Some municipalities conduct training through privately licensed agencies.\n\nThe Estonia Police was originally established in 1918 and then re-established in 1991 after regaining independence from the Soviet Union. The Estonia Police force consists of three units: Central Criminal Police, the Central Law Enforcement and the Forensic Service Center. In Estonia, the Estonian Academy of Security Science is located in Tallinn and consists of four colleges including the Police and Border Guard colleges in Muraste and Paikuse. Estonia Police was the first to use Blockchain technology to allow for better policing of the people.\n\nRecruits in the Finnish Police forces receive training at the Police University College in Finland, or POLAMK. It is located in Tampere, Finland and consists of various teaching facilities and related premises, including a vehicle training facility and a training area for live-action, realistic police operations. POLAMK requires its candidates to be Finnish citizens who have completed at least a vocational qualification, upper secondary school studies or the matriculation examination. Applicants must be in good health, have no criminal background and possess certain traits as evaluated by psychological exams. The Security Intelligence Service performs a basic security background check of all applicants which includes penalties and convictions, arrests for drunkenness, racist attitudes as well as security risks. Applicants must possess, at least, a short-term driving license by the end of the application period. Basic police training requires three years of study and is considered a Bachelor's degree.\n\nAfter the Bachelor's degree and three additional years of experience in the field of internal security, an officer is qualified to apply for Master's studies (2 years, Master's degree). Master's studies focus on management skills and supervisory tasks. The Master's degree is a required qualification for command positions such as Chief Inspector or Superintendent.\n\nIn Indonesia, the National Police Academy (Indonesian: \"Akademi Kepolisian\" abbreviated \"AKPOL\") is the main institute, training center, and school for recruits joining the Indonesian National Police Force to become professional officers. After 4 years in the Police Academy, cadets graduate to the rank of Police Inspector 2nd Class (\"Inspektur Polisi Dua\"), (equivalent to Second Lieutenant in the military). Graduates become first line supervisors with the rank of junior first ranking officers in the Indonesian National Police and can be deployed to different units within the force. The academy is located in Semarang, Central Java and is part of the International Association of Police Academies (Interpa).\n\nCadet ranks in the Academy are as shown below:\n\nUntil 1999, before the Indonesian National Police officially separated from the armed forces (ABRI), the Indonesian Police Academy (\"AKPOL\") also stood under the National Armed Forces Academy but now has separated from the Military and is under the auspices of the President of Indonesia, and controlled by the National Police Headquarters (\"Mabes Polri\"). Although separated from the service academies, cadets from both institutions maintain cooperative relationships through annual joint exercises. AKPOL's new cadets and 4th class cadets, alongside their armed forces counterparts, have had a joint 4th class cadet training program since 2008, after completing it the police officer cadets spend the remaining 4 years of study in Semarang.\n\nLocated in Hyderabad, India, Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel National Police Academy is the national institute for training of Indian Police Service (IPS) officers before they are assigned to their respective Indian state cadres. Additionally, each state has their respective police academy for training of lower ranks below the rank of superintendent of police, such as constable, sub-inspector and many more.\n\nIn the Republic of Ireland, the Garda Síochána College in Templemore is the only police academy. All trainees for the Garda Síochána and Garda Síochána Reserve study here.\n\nFor prospective candidates to the Polizia di Stato, basic education is conducted at the Scuola Superiore di Polizia while the Scuola di perfezionamento per le Forze di Polizia conducts advanced education and implements courses on new legislation, regulations and operational techniques.\n\nIn Malaysia, there are fifteen police academies, one of them being the Royal Malaysia Police College in Kuala Lumpur which is a combination of four police training institutes, (the Kuala Kubu Baru Police College, the Special Branch Training School, the College of Criminal Investigation, and Traffic School), which train higher-ranking officers. The college has plans to be upgraded to a Police University in collaboration with the Sultan Idris Education University.\n\nThe National Police Academy (NPA), (formerly known as Central Police Training Centre (CPTC), founded in 1956), was established with the introduction of police regulation in 1993.\n\nLocated in Papakowhai, approximately 2 km north of Porirua City, the Royal New Zealand Police College is the central training institution for all police recruits and police officers in New Zealand.\n\nThe Norwegian Police University College offers education for the police force of Norway, including a three-year basic education program and a possible expansion that would offer a Master's degree.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the Philippine National Police Academy in Cavite served as a school for selected enlisted personnel and civilians to join as Police/Fire Lieutenants in the defunct Integrated National Police. After the merging of the Philippine Constabulary and INP on January 1, 1991, it became the primary officer school for the new Philippine National Police, the Bureau of Fire Protection and the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology, all under the Department of the Interior and Local Government (DILG). \n\nPhilippine National Police Academy graduates are automatically appointed as Inspectors/Lieutenants in the Philippine National Police, Bureau of Fire Protection, or the Bureau of Jail Management and Penology according to their choice of public safety curriculum during their cadetship. This is under the supervision of the DILG and the Philippine Public Safety College.\n\nThe Polish Police college is located in the town of Szczytno. Police schools are in Piła, Słupsk, Katowice, and Legionowo. Border guard training centers are located in Kętrzyn, Koszalin, and Lubań. Poland also has a \"higher educational institution\" called \"Wyższa Szkoła Policji.\" where officers are enrolled in academic studies and trained in modern policing techniques, weapons handling, and informatics.\n\nOffering three levels of training for officers, (Bachelor's Degree (3 years), Master's Degree, (2 years) and Dr (3+1 years)), The Romanian Police academy is located in Bucureşti.\n\nThe Border Police School and Training Center is located in Oradea, Avram Iancu, the Coast Guard Center is in Constanta. Centers for Training Border Police Personnel are in Iași and Orsova.\n\nIn Serbia, future police officers are trained at the Basic Police Training Centre in Sremska Kamenica, the former Police High School. The training lasts for 1 year and is followed by a 6-month probation period at a Regional Police Department. The skills the recruits learn are for general jurisdiction police officers, and after they are employed, they may specialise in a line of work (traffic police, border police, special forces, etc.).\nThere is also the Academy of Criminalistic and Police Studies, a higher education institution established as a legal successor of the Advanced School of Internal Affairs, formed in 1972; and Police Academy, formed in 1993.\n\nIn the Slovak Republic, the Police College, (University), offers courses in security specialization for police, public administration, and private security services. Some branches are open to civilians, while some only allow police officers, firefighters, soldiers and the like. The schools offer Bachelor's Degrees, Master's Degrees, and Doctoral Degrees.\n\nAll police officers must pass through the basic training centers for new police officers, called secondary police schools.\n\nIn Slovenia, the police academy conducts training programs, education, and training for the police and for external users. All candidates need to have a high-school education before attending. Candidates spend eighteen months in basic training in order to become a police officer, followed by a six-month evaluation period. Advanced police school courses last two years, and require one to have been a police officer for at least two years.\n\nIn Spain, there is a Ministry of the Interior's National Police centralised academy near Ávila (.) The Guardia Civil runs two centralised academies, one for enlisted \"guardias\" and sub-officers in Baeza (Jaén, ) and another one for commanding officers in two campuses at Aranjuez () and El Escorial () (Madrid). The autonomous Catalan and Basque police forces —the Mossos d'Esquadra and the Ertzaintza— also have their own academies in Mollet del Vallès (Barcelona, ) and Arcaute (Álava, ). No candidates with a criminal record are accepted.\n\nCandidates attend these centralised public academies after passing the police force's entry examination, this way recruits are already enlisted and will automatically become police officers if they don't fail the course or drop out. Recruits' training is tuition free and the candidates are paid a police cadet's wage as members of the force. Basic training ranges from 5 months for an entry-level \"policía Nacional\" or \"Guardia civil\" to 9 months for a \"mosso\", but realistically takes 18 months to two years including practicums and additional training. Local police forces including Madrid's or Barcelona's are often trained at these large public academies too. High-rank or highly specialised courses are longer and eventually lead to a college-like degree.\n\nThe Spanish police academies must not be confused with the many fee-paying private \"academias\" training potential candidates to pass the entry examination beforehand. While these private academies may be helpful, studying at them is not required and potential candidates are able to take the entrance examination without these courses.\n\nSri Lanka established the Sri Lanka Police Academy in 2008, bringing together several police training institutions including the Sri Lanka Police College.\n\nSince 2015, police training has been entirely outsourced by the Swedish Police Authority, and is carried out at three universities: Växjö, Umeå, and Södertörn. The training covers five terms, and the last two include six months of paid workplace practicum as a Police Trainee. Applicants must possess eligibility for higher education, the personal qualities deemed necessary for the profession and meet a number of the physical requirements relating to the job.\n\nThe Police Academy was established in 1937 to recruit police chiefs. In 1938, a police college, (high school), was established in Ankara in order to prepare students for the Police Academy. Today, the police academy recruits police officers in 26 schools located in different parts of Turkey, and police chiefs in one school located in Ankara.\n\nIn UAE, the Emirates either train their own police force or outsource training to academies of other Emirates. There are mainly two academies, one located in Abu Dhabi and the other in Dubai.\n\nIn the Abu Dhabi Police Academy, the study program includes practical and field training. After successful completion of the program, the student is awarded a bachelor's degree in Law and Policing Sciences.\n\nAn Institute for officer training affiliated with the Police College was established in 1992. In 2002, the system of study in the college was changed to incorporate training theory programs and fieldwork.\n\nThe four years of study are divided into two levels of study consisting of eight terms:\n\nOne year for theoretical study and another for fieldwork.\n\nThese two levels are preceded by an introductory period for the physical and psychological preparation of the students. After successful completion of the study and training programs, the student will be awarded a bachelor's degree in Police Sciences and Criminal Justice.\n\nThe Dubai Police Academy was founded in 1987 and was granted autonomy from the police force as long as it retained some affiliation with Dubai Police General Headquarters. It was fully inaugurated in 1989 in the presence of Sheikh Maktoum Bin Rashid Al Maktoum. In 1992, degrees offered by the academy were given university equivalency. \n\nThe first class was from 1987 to 1988 and consisted of 51 cadets and 30 full-time students, (some of whom were existing police officers), which graduated in 1991. During the academic year of 1996–1997, students from other Arabic countries such as Yemen and the Palestinian Territories were admitted.\n\nAll candidates for the 43 police forces for England and Wales must be over the age of 18½; of a reasonable standard of physical fitness, with good health and eyesight. Candidates also must hold British citizenship, be a citizen of the Commonwealth with no restrictions on his or her stay within Britain or be a citizen of the Republic of Ireland. All candidates serve two years as probationary constables, which will be spent training in both academic and practical situations. From 2007, all training was managed by the now defunct National Policing Improvement Agency with the College of Policing taking over in 2013.\n\nAll new police officers in Scotland attend an initial 11-week training course at the Scottish Police College at Tulliallan Castle. The college has been operating since 1954 and hosts initial training of new officers as well as a range of courses such as the training of traffic officers and detectives. Many courses have received accreditation from the Scottish Qualifications Authority (SQA) or are credit rated on the Scottish Credit and Qualifications Framework (SCQF). Training ranges from a SCQF Level 7 for the probationer training delivered to new recruits (equivalent to an entry level higher education course) to degree level qualifications for more specialised or senior roles such as detective training or courses for senior officers.\n\nPolice academies exist in every state and also at the federal level. Each state has an agency that certifies state-specific police academies and their programs. Most states have minimum physical and academic requirements to be completed prior to entry into the academy. Some states may require additional certifications before qualification as a police officer. While some states allow open enrollment in police academies, many require cadets to be hired by a police department in order to attend training. Departments and/or state certification agencies may also require individuals to pass background checks, psychological evaluations, polygraph exams, drug screenings, firearms qualifications and demonstrations of driving skills as prerequisites of employment/certification.\nWhile some federal law enforcement agencies have their own training requirements and training facilities, 91 federal law enforcement agencies (including the Federal Bureau of Investigation and United States Marshals Service), require agents, officers and prospective agents/officers to attend basic and in-service training at the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers (FLETC). FLETC, which is operated by the Department of Homeland Security, and is headquartered in Glynco, Georgia with training sites in Artesia, New Mexico, Charleston, South Carolina and Cheltenham, Maryland.\nIn Connecticut, police officer recruits receive a certification to enforce the General Statutes. Their training is conducted at \"The Connecticut Police Academy\" located at 285 Preston Avenue, in Meriden, CT. In order to become a certified police officer, a recruit must be a legal United States resident at least 21 years of age, have a high school diploma or equivalent, possess a valid drivers license, and not be convicted of any felonies. The to be officers then have to attend an 818-hour basic training course that covers various aspects of police work. This basic training course is certified by Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies, (CALEA).\nIn Florida, police academies are primarily run by community colleges or state agencies. All law enforcement officers in the state are certified as such by a governing body appointed by the governor called the \"Criminal Justice Standards and Training Commission\" under the Florida Department of Law Enforcement. All applicants must pass a state examination and be hired by a law enforcement agency within 4 years of graduation to be considered certified.\nAll law enforcement officers in Kentucky, (except as listed below), hired after 1998 are required to complete the minimum screening, physical training and classroom requirements of the Kentucky's \"Police Officer Professional Standards (POPS)\" prior to being certified, and acting, as a law enforcement officer. Larger agencies, such as the Kentucky State Police, as well as the Louisville Metro Police and the Lexington Division of Police, operate their own police academies and may have requirements that exceed the minimum POPS standards. Agencies in Kentucky who do not run their own academies send their prospective officers to a 20-week basic training class at the Kentucky Department of Criminal Justice Training Academy, operated by the Kentucky Justice and Public Safety Cabinet and located on the campus of Eastern Kentucky University in Richmond. Exceptions to POPS training and certification are officers hired prior to 1998 and elected law enforcement officers whose duties and requirements are set forth in the Kentucky Constitution. These include sheriffs, constables, coroners and jailers, (though generally not deputies). Many of these officeholders, however, hold POPS certification from previous employment as law enforcement officers prior to their election and some will receive POPS certification or approved equivalent training before taking office.\n\nIn Maryland, the Maryland Police and Correctional Training Commission is the civilian governing body that sets standards for law enforcement personnel within the state. Most major law enforcement agencies operate their own academy in which recruits must pass over 550 objectives including, (but not limited to), criminal and traffic law, officer safety techniques, defensive tactics, report writing, a 40-hour block of emergency vehicle operations, a 40-hour block of First Responder, and a 40-hour block of weapon training. Most agencies operate non-resident academies; however, the Maryland State Police requires recruits to live at the academy and, dependent on their performance level for the week, may leave campus for the weekend. Many colleges such as the University of Maryland and other community colleges offer police academy instruction as well.\nIn Michigan, in order to become law enforcement officers, all applicants have the option to be certified by the \"Michigan Commission on Law Enforcement Standards\" or MCOLES. All persons wishing to become police officers in the State of Michigan must be certified through MCOLES. Cadets must pass a physical fitness exam as well as a reading and writing exam. Applicants also cannot have any felonies, weapons violations, or a history of domestic violence posted on their criminal records. Police academies are most often part of community colleges, city or county police and sheriff departments, or the Michigan State Police.\n\nAfter the police academy, candidates take the MCOLES test. Upon successful completion, candidates are 'certifiable' and have a period of one year to obtain employment as law enforcement officers, (if not sponsored by an agency). If a candidate is unable to obtain a law enforcement position within that year, and if the candidate wishes to be considered in the future, he/she must attend a two-week re-certification course, which adds a year to the candidate's window of opportunity.\nNew Hampshire's PSTC, (Police Standards and Training Council), provides all training and maintains certification standards for every full and part-time law enforcement officer in the state. This includes anyone who has the power of arrest, (except federal officers), under New Hampshire law. The PSTC also provides training and certification for correctional officers employed directly by the State. All recruits must have at least a conditional offer of employment from a law enforcement agency, have a clear background check, pass a medical exam and a physical fitness test. Agencies may add other qualifications such as education, polygraph, and drug exams. The PSTC law enforcement academies require each recruit to qualify with a firearm, demonstrate driving skills, maintaining physical fitness, pass subject matter exams and scenario evaluations as a condition of certification.\n\nMost agencies in the state use a Field Training Officer program to provide additional training and evaluation of new hires.\nThe agency which certifies police academies in Texas is the Texas Commission on Law Enforcement (TCOLE). Many major cities and sheriff's offices also operate their own training academies, while some smaller municipalities cooperate to maintain regional academies. Some community colleges offer police training courses as well. There are three state-level law enforcement academies: the Texas Department of Public Safety which trains state troopers, the Texas Parks and Wildlife Department who train game wardens, and the Texas Department of Criminal Justice that trains state corrections officers. Police academies typically last from 18 to 30 weeks, though there are many variations. All police cadets are required to obtain at least a Basic Peace Officer Proficiency Certification from TCOLE before beginning active duty; some academies also require their cadets to obtain an Intermediate certification before graduating. TCOLE offers certifications for jailers and corrections officers, who must also undergo training prior to being commissioned, (albeit typically much less than police officers).\nThe basis of the Utah basic training for police officers is to protect the community and the citizens the officers are serving. They do this by completing basic training, firearms training, curriculum development, canine training, defensive tactics, emergency vehicle operations, and physical fitness training. Training for Utah officers is broken into two separate sections, called blocks. The two blocks are Special Functions and Law Enforcement. In order to be certified in the state of Utah an individual must successfully finish both blocks of training. This training is intended to teach the officers to be as professional and as up to date as possible. Officers are also required to do an additional 40 hours of training annually in order to stay up to date on all current laws and police procedures.\n\nLocated in Tu Liem district, Hanoi, Vietnam, The Vietnam People's Police Academy is one of the leading schools of the Vietnam People's Public Security, training officers with university degrees and postgraduate degrees. The People's Police Academy is a training center under the jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public Security. \n\nIn 1968, the People's Police was established within the Department of the Public Security Police Central (now known as the Academy of the People's Security).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209439", "title": "The Virtual Community", "text": "The Virtual Community\n\nThe Virtual Community is a 1993 book about virtual communities by Howard Rheingold, a member of the early network system The WELL. A second edition, with a new concluding chapter, was published in 2000 by MIT Press.\n\nThe book's discussion ranges from Rheingold's adventures on The WELL, computer-mediated communication and social groups and information science. Technologies cited include Usenet, MUDs (multi-user dungeons) and their derivatives MUSHes and MOOs, Internet Relay Chat (IRC), chat rooms, and electronic mailing lists. Rheingold also points out the potential benefits for personal psychological well-being, as well as for society at large, of belonging to a virtual community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209444", "title": "Disappearance of Etan Patz", "text": "Disappearance of Etan Patz\n\nEtan Kalil Patz (; October 9, 1972 – May 25, 1979; declared legally dead in 2001) was an American boy who was six years old on May 25, 1979, when he disappeared on his way to his school bus stop in the SoHo neighborhood of Lower Manhattan. His disappearance helped launch the missing children movement, which included new legislation and new methods for tracking down missing children. Several years after he disappeared, Patz was one of the first children to be profiled on the \"photo on a milk carton\" campaigns of the early 1980s. In 1983, President Ronald Reagan designated May 25—the anniversary of Etan's disappearance—as National Missing Children's Day in the United States.\n\nDecades later, it was determined that Patz had been abducted and murdered the same day that he went missing. The case was reopened in 2010 by the Manhattan District Attorney's office. In 2012, the FBI excavated the basement of the alleged crime scene near the Patz residence but discovered no new evidence. Pedro Hernandez—a suspect who confessed—was charged and indicted later that year on charges of second-degree murder and first-degree kidnapping. In 2014, the case went through a series of hearings to determine whether or not Hernandez's statements before he received his Miranda rights were legally admissible at trial. His trial began in January 2015 and ended in a mistrial that May, when one of the 12 jurors held out. The retrial began on October 19, 2016, and concluded on February 14, 2017, after nine days of deliberations, when the jury found Hernandez guilty of murder and kidnapping. Hernandez was sentenced to 25-years-to-life in prison on April 18, 2017. Hernandez will not be eligible for parole for 25 years.\n\nOn the morning of May 25, 1979, Etan left his SoHo apartment at 113 Prince Street by himself for the first time, planning to walk two blocks to board a school bus at West Broadway and Prince Street. He was wearing a black \"Future Flight Captain\" pilot cap, a blue corduroy jacket, blue jeans and blue sneakers with fluorescent stripes. He never got on the bus.\n\nAt school, Etan's teacher noticed his absence but did not report it to the principal. When Etan did not return home after school, his mother Julie called the police. At first, detectives considered the Patzes to be possible suspects but quickly determined they had no involvement. An intense search began that evening, using nearly 100 police officers and a team of bloodhounds. The search continued for weeks. Neighbors and police canvassed the city and placed missing-child posters featuring Etan's portrait, but this resulted in few leads.\n\nEtan's father Stanley was a professional photographer and had a collection of photographs he had taken of his son. His photos of Etan were printed on countless missing-child posters and milk cartons. They were also projected on screens in Times Square.\n\nAssistant United States Attorney Stuart R. GraBois received the case in 1985 and identified Jose Antonio Ramos, a convicted child sexual abuser who had been a friend of Etan's former babysitters, as the primary suspect. In 1982, multiple boys had accused Ramos of trying to lure them into a drain pipe in the area where Ramos was living. When police searched the drain pipe, they found photographs of Ramos and young boys who resembled Etan. GraBois eventually found out that Ramos had been in custody in Pennsylvania in connection with an unrelated child molestation case. In 1990, GraBois was deputized as a deputy state attorney general in Pennsylvania to help prosecute a case against Ramos for sexually abusing children and to obtain further information about Etan's case. When first questioned by GraBois, Ramos stated that, on the day when Etan disappeared, he had taken a young boy back to his apartment to rape him. Ramos said that he was \"90 percent sure\" it was the boy whom he later saw on television. However, Ramos did not use Etan's name. He also claimed he had \"put the boy on a subway\".\n\nIn 1991, while Ramos was incarcerated, a jailhouse informant told GraBois and FBI agent Mary Galligan that Ramos had told him he knew what had happened to Etan. Ramos even drew a map of Etan's school bus route, indicating that he knew that Etan's bus stop was the third one on the route. In a special feature on missing children, the \"New York Post\" reported on October 21, 1999, that Ramos was the prime suspect in Etan's disappearance. Ramos had been known by the Patz family and was the prime suspect all along, but in the early 1980s authorities were unable to prosecute Ramos.\n\nEtan's body was never found; he was declared legally dead in 2001. Stan and Julie Patz pursued and won a civil case against Ramos in 2004. They were awarded a symbolic sum of $2 million, which they have never collected. Ramos has never been criminally prosecuted for the murder of Etan. Every year, on Etan's birthday and the anniversary of his disappearance, Stan Patz sent Ramos a copy of his son's missing-child poster. On the back, he typed the same message: \"What did you do to my little boy?\"\n\nRamos has denied that he killed Etan. He served a 20-year prison sentence in the State Correctional Institution in Dallas, Pennsylvania, for child molestation. He was released from prison on November 7, 2012. Soon after his release he was arrested on a Megan's Law violation.\n\nStan and Julie Patz had the 2004 judgment against Ramos dismissed after the 2015 trial of Pedro Hernandez convinced them that Ramos was not responsible for their son's death.\n\nManhattan District Attorney Cyrus Vance, Jr. officially reopened the case on May 25, 2010. On April 19, 2012, Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and New York City Police Department (NYPD) investigators began the SoHo basement of 127-B Prince Street, near the Patz home. This residence had been newly refurbished shortly after Etan's disappearance in 1979, and the basement had been the workshop and storage space of a handyman. After a four-day search, investigators announced that there was \"nothing conclusive found.\"\n\nOn May 24, 2012, New York Police Commissioner Raymond Kelly announced that a man was in custody who had implicated himself in Etan's disappearance. According to \"The New York Times\", a law enforcement official identified the man as 51-year-old Pedro Hernandez of Maple Shade, New Jersey, and said that he had confessed to strangling the child. He stated in his written confession to police, \"I’m sorry, I shoke [sic] him.\" According to a 2009 book about the case, \"After Etan\", Etan had a dollar and had told his parents he planned to buy a soda to drink with his lunch. At the time of Etan's disappearance, Hernandez was an 18-year-old convenience store worker in a neighborhood bodega. Hernandez said that he later threw Etan's remains into the garbage. Hernandez was charged with second-degree murder. According to a \"New York Times\" report from May 25, 2012, the police at that time had no physical evidence to corroborate his confession.\n\nIn 2012 a man from New Jersey, Jose Lopez, reached out to investigators: He believed that Hernandez, Lopez's brother-in-law, was in fact responsible for Etan's disappearance. Statements by Hernandez's sister, Nina Hernandez, and Tomas Rivera, leader of a Charismatic Christianity group at St. Anthony of Padua, a Roman Catholic church in Camden, New Jersey, indicated that Hernandez may have publicly confessed in the presence of fellow parishioners in the early 1980s to murdering Etan. According to Hernandez's sister, it was an \"open family secret that he had confessed in the church.\" A New York grand jury indicted Hernandez on November 14, 2012, on charges of second-degree murder and first-degree kidnapping. His lawyer has stated that Hernandez was diagnosed with schizotypal personality disorder, which includes hallucinations. The lawyer has also said his client has a low intelligence quotient (IQ) of around 70, \"at the border of intellectual disability.\"\n\nOn December 12, 2012, Hernandez pleaded not guilty to two counts of murder and one count of kidnapping in a New York court. In April 2013, Harvey Fishbein, Hernandez's legal aid criminal defense lawyer, filed a motion to dismiss the case, citing that Hernandez's \"confession in one of the nation's most notorious child disappearances was false, peppered with questionable claims and made after almost seven hours of police questioning\". The next month, however, New York Supreme Court Justice Maxwell Wiley ruled that the evidence was \"legally sufficient to support the charges\" and that the case could move forward. He also ordered a hearing to determine whether the defendant's statements could be used at trial.\n\nHernandez had a hearing in September 2014 about whether his statements made prior to police giving him his Miranda rights were legally admissible at trial. This would be influenced by whether or not he felt free to leave during the time before he was informed of his Miranda rights. The hearing was also to determine whether or not he understood the significance of the Miranda rights and was competent to waive them when he did so. This was significant because it would decide whether any statements made after that point by Hernandez were legally admissible at trial. The actual truth or falsehood of the statements was not the focus of the hearing; rather, the question of the statements' truthfulness was to be discussed in the trial, which began on January 5, 2015.\n\nThe case resulted in a mistrial in May 2015 due to a hung jury, which was deadlocked 11 against 1 for conviction. A retrial began on October 19, 2016, in a New York City court, with jury deliberations in February 2017. On February 14, 2017, Hernandez was found guilty of kidnapping and felony murder. Sentencing was scheduled on February 28, with Hernandez facing up to 25 years to life in prison. However, Hernandez's attorneys were granted a delay so as to be able to challenge the verdict, and no new sentencing date was set.\n\nOn April 18, 2017, Hernandez was sentenced to life in prison without the possibility of parole for 25 years.\n\nIn 1983, the May 25 anniversary of Etan Patz's disappearance was designated National Missing Children's Day in the United States. In 2001, the tribute spread worldwide. The International Centre for Missing & Exploited Children (ICMEC) coordinates the \"Help Bring Them Home\" campaign in 22 countries in conjunction with International Missing Children's Day.\n\nThe extensive media attention given to Etan's disappearance has been credited with creating greater attention to missing children, resulting in changes such as less willingness to allow children to walk to school, photos of missing children being printed on milk cartons, and promotion of the concept of \"stranger danger\", the idea that all adults not known to the child must be regarded as potential sources of danger.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209451", "title": "Jules Violle", "text": "Jules Violle\n\nJules Louis Gabriel Violle (16 November 1841, Langres, Haute-Marne – 12 September 1923, Fixin, Bourgogne-Franche-Comté) was a French physicist and inventor.\n\nHe is notable for having determined the solar constant at Mont Blanc in 1875, and, in 1881, for proposing a standard for luminous intensity, called the Violle, equal to the light emitted by 1 cm² of platinum at its melting point. (It was notable as the first unit of light intensity that did not depend on the properties of a particular lamp, but it was made obsolete by the candela, the standard SI unit.)\n\nThroughout his life, Violle taught at several colleges including the University of Lyon and the Conservatoire des Arts et Métiers in Paris. He was one of the founders of the Institut d'optique théorique et appliquée and the École supérieure d'optique. He improved and invented a number of devices for measuring radiation, and determined the freezing and melting points of palladium.\n\nViolle is believed by some to be the secret identity of Fulcanelli, a contemporary French alchemist whose true identity is still debated. His biography can be found in this book: \"\"A l'ombre des chênes, l'alchimiste de la République\"\". \n"}
{"id": "2209460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209460", "title": "Ricardo Colclough", "text": "Ricardo Colclough\n\nRicardo Sanchez Colclough ( ; born September 26, 1983) is a former Canadian football cornerback and linebacker in the Canadian Football League. He was drafted by the Pittsburgh Steelers in the second round of the 2004 NFL Draft. He played college football at Tusculum.\n\nColclough has also been a member of the Cleveland Browns, Carolina Panthers, and Kansas City Chiefs. He earned a Super Bowl ring with the Steelers in Super Bowl XL against the Seattle Seahawks.\n\nHe was drafted with the sixth pick of the second round of the 2004 NFL Draft out of Tusculum College. He is perhaps best known for his momentum-shifting muffed punt in week three of the 2006 season. With the Steelers up 17 to 14 against the Cincinnati Bengals, Colclough was back for a punt with roughly eight minutes remaining. He attempted to field the punt by raising his hands above his head, then dropping the punt. He and teammate free safety Tyrone Carter both had a chance to recover, but both failed. One play after the miscue, Bengals quarterback Carson Palmer hit wide receiver T. J. Houshmandzadeh for a score. The Steelers ended up losing the game, 28-20.\n\nColclough was put on the injured reserve list in early October of the 2006 NFL season. On October 30, 2007, Colclough was released by the Steelers after appearing in three games.\n\nThe next day, he was claimed off waivers by the Cleveland Browns. He played the rest of the season with the team before becoming a free agent.\n\nOn March 1, 2008, Colclough signed a two-year, $4 million contract with the Carolina Panthers. Colclough was released by the Panthers on August 30, 2008, hours after receiving a DWI.\n\nColclough was signed by the Kansas City Chiefs on November 5, 2008. He was waived on September 29, 2009.\n\nColclough was signed by the Omaha Nighthawks in 2010. He was re-signed by the team on July 15, 2011.\n\nOn March 12, 2012, Colclough signed with the Edmonton Eskimos of the Canadian Football League. In two games, he recorded 6 tackles.\n\nOn September 13, 2012, Colclough was traded from the Eskimos to the Hamilton Tiger-Cats along with a 6th round pick the CFL draft for non-import fullback Darcy Brown. Colclough was released by the Tiger-Cats on July 18, 2013\n\nOn July 23, 2013, Colclough signed with the Toronto Argonauts. He was released by the Argonauts on May 26, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209461", "title": "Mystery Walk", "text": "Mystery Walk\n\nMystery Walk is a 1984 album by M + M (also known as Martha And The Muffins), produced by Daniel Lanois. The opening tracks, \"Black Stations/White Stations\" and \"Cooling The Medium\" were both released as singles, with the first track being the more successful of the two, achieving hit status in Canada and reaching #2 on the U.S. dance music chart.\n\nA 30th anniversary CD and digital download edition of the album (remastered by Peter J. Moore) containing additional bonus tracks was released through the band's Muffin Music imprint in 2014. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209462", "title": "Sido (rapper)", "text": "Sido (rapper)\n\nPaul Würdig (born 30 November 1980), better known as Sido, is a German rapper. He interprets his artist name as \"super-intelligentes Drogenopfer\" (super-intelligent drug victim). It used to stand for \"Scheiße in dein Ohr\" (shit into your ear), a line from his track \"Terroarr.\" Sido is currently signed to Urban/Universal Music Group.\n\nWürdig distinguishes himself by using provocative and aggressive lyrics. After his breakthrough with his debut album \"Maske\" in 2004, Würdig was always seen wearing a silver skull mask. However, as stated in various interviews, since 2005 he no longer wears the mask, having handed it to his former boss Specter.\n\nWürdig's career began in 1997, as one half of duo Royal TS (now A.i.d.S) with B-Tight, both of whom were later signed to the label Berlin hip hop Royal Bunker and then to Aggro Berlin in 2001. As of 2009 Sido is signed to Universal Music Group.\n\nPaul Würdig was born to a German father and a Sinti mother. Würdig stated in an interview with the radio station \"BigFM\" that he's one-eighth Iranian . At the age of eight years Sido and his younger sister were brought up by their mother in East Berlin in the Prenzlauer Berg neighbourhood. In 1988, the family moved to West Berlin, where they first lived in emergency accommodation in Wedding along with many asylum seekers. They then moved into Märkisches Viertel, a high-rise residential area in the Berlin borough of Reinickendorf. During his childhood and youth, Märkisches Viertel had a high proportion of migrants and low-income families. There he attended the Bettina-von-Arnim-Oberschule and afterwards began an apprenticeship as an educator, which he never completed.\n\nSido has been active in the music business since 1997. Together with his best friend B-Tight he released several EPs and demos under the name Royal TS, which were never officially published, at the Berlin underground hip hop label Royal Bunker. SIDO had been friends with DJ Tomekk for a long time. The two made a dubplate from \"Arschficksong\" and DJ Tomekk played them in clubs all over Germany, presenting SIDO to a wider audience for the first time. Specter was Art Director for DJ Tomekk at that time. At a concert the duo got the attention of Halil, Specter and Spaiche - the later founders of the Aggro Berlin label.\n\nSido's solo career began in 2002 with the \"Arschficksong\" (\"Ass-fuck song\") on the sampler \"Aggro Ansage Nr. 1\" and the \"Weihnachtssong\" (\"Christmas song\") on \"Aggro Ansage Nr. 3\".\n\nIn 2004, Sido's debut album \"Maske\" was released, reaching #3 on the German charts and selling more than 180,000 copies to date, achieving gold status. The lead single \"Mein Block\" (My block) reached #13 on the German charts, the second single \"Fuffies im Club\" (€50 notes in the club) reached #18 and the third single \"Mama ist stolz\" (Mum is proud) reached #25. The original album was indexed because of the song \"Endlich Wochenende\" (\"Finally weekend\") which, according to the BPjM, glorified the use of drugs. The album was rereleased under the name \"Maske X\" with the song \"Arschficksong\" in replacement of \"Endlich Wochenende\". The song was also published (with the video slightly censored), for the first time as a single.\n\nIn September of the same year, he won a prestigious German music award for \"Best Newcomer.\" The best-known song from that album, \"Mein Block\", describes life from a resident's perspective in the Märkisches Viertel, a low-income neighborhood of Berlin, detailing the narcotics trade, alcoholism, problems with police, and poverty in Sido's \"Block\", or building.\n\nAfter this debut album, together with his Label colleagues B-Tight and Fler, he released two label samplers: \"Aggro Ansage Nr. 4\" and \"Aggro Ansage Nr. 5\" (which featured the new label artists Tony D and G-Hot).\n\nIn 2005, Sido performed with and represented Berlin in the Bundesvision Song Contest 2005 with the song \"Mama ist stolz\", placing 3rd with 113 points.\n\nLater he collaborated with rapper Harris, as the rap duo \"Deine Lieblings Rapper\" (\"Your favourite rappers\"). In 2005, they released their debut album \"Dein Lieblings Album\" (\"Your favourite album\"), with \"Steh wieder auf\" (get up again) as the only single.\n\nIn December 2006, Sido released his second album \"Ich\", which reached #4 in the German album charts. Three singles: \"Strassenjunge\", \"Ein Teil von mir\" and \"Schlechtes Vorbild\" were released. The album achieved gold status.\n\n2007 Sido and B-Tight (alias A.i.d.S. (=Alles ist die Sekte, engl. \"Everything is the sect\") formed their label Sektenmuzik and a rap-crew named Die Sekte (with Rhymin Simon and Vokalmatador). Tony D joined later.\n\nHis third album \"Ich und meine Maske\" was released at the end of May 2008. It reached #1 in the German album charts. The singles \"Augen auf\"/Halt dein Maul\", \"Carmen\", \"Herz\", \"Nein!\" and \"Beweg dein Arsch\" had success in the charts.\n\nOn August 2008, Sido joined the seventh season of Popstars, called \"Just 4 Girls\", as a jury member, along with Detlef D! Soost and Loona. Many people were surprised, wondering why Sido, the Aggro-rapper with his provocative and aggressive lyrics, would join a TV show like Popstars?\nAt the end of Popstars the band Queensberry was formed.\n\nOn 1 April 2009, the label Aggro Berlin was closed. Sido was then signed by Urban Records, a division of Universal Music Germany.\n\nOn October, 30th 2009 Sido released his fourth studio album \"Aggro Berlin\". The lead single \"Hey du!\" ranked #4 in the German Charts. In this song Sido talks about growing up in GDR and his later life in West Berlin. He reported that he kept his East Berlin origins secret for a long time for fear of bullying.\n\nWürdig has a son, whose name and date of birth are not known publicly, but he references him in the songs \"Aggro Gold\", \"Ein Teil von mir\" and \"2010\", amongst others.\n\nHe began dating former Nu Pagadi lead singer Doreen Steinert in mid-2005 and on 14 February 2010 they became engaged. But in April 2012 they broke off their engagement. Just a few weeks later, in early May 2012, Würdig confirmed rumors that he had started dating German TV presenter Charlotte Engelhardt. Sido had a second son with Engelhardt in 2013.\n\nWürdig is the second cousin of the German DSDS participant Menowin Fröhlich.\n\nThe perceived rebellious tendencies of Sido's label affiliates B-Tight, Fler, and G-Hot, whose persona emphasize embittered racial or class standpoints, have garnered additional discussion in widely circulated publications.\n\nJuly 2004, Sido performed live in Stuttgart for the festival MTV HipHop Open. During his performances he insulted Frankfurt rapper Azad's mother saying: \"If we had a bed right here, I'd bang Azad's mother\". A week later Sido and Azad met each other backstage and after a short dispute it escalated into a brawl that involved the artists of Aggro Berlin and Bozz Music. The security and the police arrived to stop the conflict, but Azad and his crew had fled already.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209463", "title": "The Heat Is On (TV series)", "text": "The Heat Is On (TV series)\n\nThe Heat Is On is a BBC talent show that was a regular fixture on the Saturday night schedule between 1990 and 1994. The show was hosted by comedian/impressionist Bobby Davro. \n"}
{"id": "2209464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209464", "title": "Working Class Hero", "text": "Working Class Hero\n\n\"Working Class Hero\" is a song by John Lennon from his 1970 album \"John Lennon/Plastic Ono Band\", his first album after the break-up of the rock band the Beatles.\n\nStridently political, the song is a Marxist, leftist commentary/criticism on the difference between social classes. According to Lennon in an interview with Jann Wenner of \"Rolling Stone\" in December 1970, it is about working class individuals being processed into the middle classes, into the \"machine\". Lennon also said, \"I think it's a revolutionary song – it's really just revolutionary. I just think its concept is revolutionary. I hope it's for workers and not for tarts and fags. I hope it's about what Give Peace a Chance was about. But I don't know – on the other hand, it might just be ignored. I think it's for the people like me who are working class, who are supposed to be processed into the middle classes, or into the machinery. It's my experience, and I hope it's just a warning to people, Working Class Hero.\" \n\nThe refrain of the song is \"A working class hero is something to be\".\n\nThe song is not Lennon's first political song. His string of political songs began in 1968 with the Beatles' \"Revolution\" and further continued in 1972 with the release of \"Some Time in New York City\".\n\nRecorded at EMI Studios on 27 September 1970, the song features only Lennon, singing and playing an acoustic guitar as his backing. The chord progression is very simple, and builds on A-minor and G-major, with a short detour to D-major in one line of the chorus. Lennon's strumming technique includes a riff with a hammer-on pick of the E note on the D string and then an open A string. The tone and style of the song is similar to that of \"Masters of War\" and \"North Country Blues\" by Bob Dylan, a known influence of Lennon. Both are based on Jean Ritchie's arrangement of the traditional English folk song, \"Nottamun Town\". Lennon recorded \"Working Class Hero\" over a hundred times until he was satisfied with the recording. The recording is the composite of two different takes: the sound of the guitar and vocal changes at 1:24 prior to the verse \"When they've tortured and scared you.\"\n\n\nIn 1973, US Representative Harley Orrin Staggers heard the song – which includes the lines \"'Til you're so fucking crazy you can't follow their rules\" and \"But you're still fucking peasants as far as I can see\" – on WGTB and lodged a complaint with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). The manager of the station, Ken Sleeman, faced a year in prison and a $10,000 fine, but defended his decision to play the song saying, \"The People of Washington DC are sophisticated enough to accept the occasional four-letter word in context, and not become sexually aroused, offended, or upset.\" The charges were dropped. Other US radio stations, like Boston's WBCN, banned the song for its use of the word \"fucking\". In Australia, the album was released with the expletive removed from the song and the lyrics censored on the inner sleeve.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209466", "title": "Prague 1", "text": "Prague 1\n\nPrague 1, formally the Prague 1 Municipal District (\"Městská část Praha 1\"), is a second-tier municipality in Prague. It is co-extensive with the national administrative district (\"správní obvod\") of the same name.\n\nPrague 1 includes most of the medieval heart of the city. All of Staré Město (the Old Town) and Josefov (the Jewish Quarter) are in the district, as are most of Malá Strana (the Little Quarter), Hradčany and Nové Město (the New Town). Tiny parts of Holešovice and Vinohrady round out the district. The district has remained intact since its creation in 1960.\n\nMost of Prague 1 is a UNESCO World Heritage Site. Almost all of Prague's major tourist sites, including Prague Castle, Old Town Square, the Charles Bridge and the above-mentioned Jewish Quarter, are in the district. The Parliament of the Czech Republic and the offices of the government are in Malá Strana, while the main building of Charles University is in Staré Město.\n\nAs of the end of 2004, 32,552 people lived in 18,821 homes in the district. The district covers 5.53 km² (1,366 acres).\n\nA Prague 1 address is considered quite prestigious, and real estate here is the most expensive in the city.\n\nThe Czech Ministry of Transport is in Prague 1.\n\nThe Rail Safety Inspection Office has its head office in Prague 1.\n\nThe Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Czech Republic is headquartered in Czernin Palace in Prague 1.\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Youth and Sports of the Czech Republic head office is in Prague 1.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209468", "title": "Llandinam", "text": "Llandinam\n\nLlandinam () is a village and community in Montgomeryshire, Powys, central Wales, between Newtown and Llanidloes, located on the A470. As a community, Llandinam is made up of the village itself, small hamlets including Plas Dinam and Little London and several farms. The village itself has a population of 576 with 56% born in Wales.\n\nLlandinam was the family home of David Davies who was responsible for much of the development of the South Wales Valleys and the export of coal in the 19th century. The house that David Davies built, Broneirion, remains an elegant country mansion owned by Girlguiding Cymru. The parents of Murray Humphreys, one of Chicago's most feared Prohibition gangsters, emigrated to the United States from the village in the late 1890s.\n\nThe bridge from the main road over towards Broneirion was the first cast iron bridge constructed in the county, designed by Thomas Penson and built by Davies 1846. It spans 90 feet (27.5 m). At the east end of the bridge there is a statue of David Davies.\n\nGordonstoun school was evacuated here for the duration of World War II. The local village school was threatened with closure in 2003 due to falling pupil numbers; thanks to a popular local campaign it was temporarily saved.\n\nLlandinam was voted the \"Best Kept Village in Wales\" in 1986.\n\nPreviously served by Llandinam railway station on the Llanidloes and Newtown Railway.\n\nAn electoral ward in the same name exists, which also covers the neighbouring community of Mochdre. The population of this ward at the 2011 census was 1,405. It elected its first Conservative County Councillor in May 2017.\nSt Llonio's Church is located immediately north of the village centre, on a spur jutting into the Severn Valley, and within a fortified promontory fort, the defensive bank forming, until recently, the northern boundary of the church. It was originally the mother church of those at Llanidloes and Llanwnnog, serving a monastery until the late 13th century.\n\nIt is claimed that the church dates back to AD 520. It was initially a clas structure, with its western tower containing a pyramidal slate roof over a timber belfry, dating from the 13th century. It is recorded as \"Ecclesia de Landinam\" in the Norwich Taxation of 1254 with a value of £1 6s 8d.\n\nThe majority of the church was rebuilt in the 19th century, coinciding with the restoration by George Edmund Street. The church still retains some original features, however, most notably the northern wall of the chancel.\n\nThe church has a wooden reredos, two old tomb recesses in the sanctuary, a damaged perpendicular font and a number of 17th-century carved choir stalls. The square western tower probably dates from the 13th century with its timber belfry designed in Marches style. Rebuilding culminated in 1864-65 and left only the north wall of the chancel remaining from the previous design. During the restoration, new windows in square headed frames were inserted throughout the church and all the windows were replaced in neo-Gothic style.\n\nIn the centre of the burial ground, to the south-west of the church, is an ancient yew tree claimed to be around 800 years old. South-west of the yew is a large oak tree. There is another large yew to the north-west of the churchyard several Irish yews on the west side.\n\nThe church, which is a Grade II listed building lies in the Church in Wales parish of Bro Arwystli. It has its own Facebook page, which features photographs of some of its unique architectural features.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209470", "title": "Antonia Zerbisias", "text": "Antonia Zerbisias\n\nAntonia Zerbisias (born in Montreal, Quebec) is a Canadian journalist associated with the \"Toronto Star\" from 1989 until she took early retirement from the paper on 31 October 2014. She has been a reporter and TV host for the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation, as well as the Montreal correspondent for the trade paper, \"Variety\". She was nominated for ACTRA awards for her documentary writing in 1980 and 1981, and won the 1996 National Newspaper Award for critical writing for her columns about magazines. Currently a freelancer, she regularly writes opinion columns for Al Jazeera English and the Toronto alternative weekly, Now.\nPetros Zerbisias immigrated from Greece to Canada arriving in Halifax in 1928. He settled in Montreal where he met his wife, Loula, where they owned and operated the Deli-Q restaurant. Zerbisias attended Wagar High School in the suburb of Cote-St-Luc. She was married to the late Mark Blandford, a prominent Quebec television producer, director and screenwriter.\n\nZerbisias has a BA in applied social sciences from Concordia University (then called Sir George Williams University). Her first job as a reporter, in the early 1970s, was with the now-defunct Montreal weekly newspaper the \"Sunday Express\". She moved to Toronto and worked as a researcher on the \"Larry Solway Show\" for a year before returning to Montreal in 1975. In 1975, she joined CBC-TV, first as a researcher and eventually becoming a reporter for \"The City at Six\" which later was renamed Newswatch.\n\nIn 1980 she returned to Concordia to earn her MBA (Marketing Research, Honours, 1985), while still working as a journalist for CBC-TV and \"Variety\". In 1986, she became a reporter/producer for the CBC-TV business show \"Venture\". In 2002-2003, she co-hosted the CBC Newsworld program \"Inside Media\" with Matthew Fraser.\n\nZerbisias joined the \"Toronto Star\" as a TV columnist in 1989. She was assigned to the Montreal bureau in 1991. In 1993, she returned to Toronto and became a media critic. She won the 1996 National Newspaper Award for critical writing for her columns about magazines; the award noting that Zerbisias \"is not one to mince with words as she focuses on the subject matter at hand. She proceeds to give us her insights, analysis and critique not only with rhetorical, stylistic and intellectual rigor, but with gusto and passion, a rare commodity in today's bland politically correct journalism.\" In 1997, she became TV critic and then, in 2003, was appointed media columnist.\n\nZerbisias' first blog for the Star, \"Azerbic\" effectively went on hiatus in August 2006 and ceased publishing the following December. She continued as media critic until June 2007, when she became the social issues and cultural affairs columnist at the \"Toronto Star\". In January 2008, she launched a new Star blog, with a focus on feminist issues, called \"Broadsides\" .\n\nIn April 2010, she ended her regular column to become a feature writer at the \"Toronto Star\". She took early retirement from the \"Star\" on 31 October 2014.\n\nOn the day before retiring from The Star, during the controversy over allegations that CBC Radio personality Jian Ghomeshi had assaulted half a dozen women, Zerbisias, along with then-Montreal Gazette reporter Sue Montgomery, created the hashtag #BeenRapedNeverReported which went viral internationally and was translated into other languages.\n\nWhile focusing on entertainment, media and cultural issues for the bulk of her career Zerbisias has also taken positions in regards to the Middle East including the Israeli–Palestinian conflict and the Iraq War. In 2009, on Twitter, she took issue with former Justice Minister Irwin Cotler who, as a keynote speaker at a Stand With Us event at Israel's Bar-Ilan University, boasted about his children enlisting in the Israeli military and asked \"Which country are you loyal to, sir?\" In the same year, she mocked Bernie Farber, then CEO of the Canadian Jewish Congress, in her blog for wearing a \"Nobody knows I'm gay\" T-shirt while marching in Toronto's Pride parade in a protest against the inclusion of Queers Against Israeli Apartheid in the march after he had said that political groups do not belong in the Pride parade. Zerbisias commented on Farber's decision to march as itself being a political act by sardonically writing in the comments thread of her blog, \"Imagine my surprise when I saw Bernie Farber identifying himself as queer by joining a pro-Israel gay rights group in the parade.\" The Canadian Jewish Congress responded by filing a complaint with the \"Toronto Star\" against Zerbisias for allegedly \"outing\" Farber. The \"Star\"'s public editor, Kathy English, ruled that Zerbisias' comments \"fell short of the Star's standards of fairness, accuracy and civility,\" and promised to rein in journalists who \"put the Star in a negative light.\" Readers lamented the Toronto Star's sudden lack of humour and appreciation for one of its own columnists. \"Imagine if top-notch cartoonist Theo Moudakis had penned a cartoon expressing the same thing. Would the Star have griped? I think not,\" suggested a Star reader.\n\nEnglish acknowledged that her ruling had elicited widespread criticism and subsequently modified her assessment and criticized Farber and the Canadian Jewish Congress since in their complaint they did not \"think to tell me that [Farber], along with dozens of others who marched with the Kulanu group, had worn a T-shirt that made its own ironic quip. That's context I sure wish I had known\" and conceded that Zerbisias' comment \"was intended as sarcastic irony, stock in trade for this columnist and blogger. But I think her attempt at irony failed here; the quip – as published without that context – was ambiguous and could be misunderstood\", adding \"To be fair to Zerbisias, it should be made clear, though, that she did not 'make things up,' as Farber interpreted it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2209480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209480", "title": "1951 Northwest Territories general election", "text": "1951 Northwest Territories general election\n\nThe 1951 Northwest Territories general election held on September 17, 1951 was the sixth general election in the Northwest Territories, Canada, and the first since the 1902 election. The election came about after \"The Northwest Territories Act\" was amended to permit three elected members from the Mackenzie District to join the five appointed members on the Executive Council of the Northwest Territories. The Council, which had met in Ottawa, Ontario, outside of the Northwest Territories, shortly after the election, the council began to alternate sittings between Ottawa and Northwest Territories communities.\n\nThe bill to re initiate territorial elections in the Northwest Territories was introduced in the Canadian House of Commons by Federal Resources Minister Robert Henry Winters.\n\nThe 1951 election was the first in the territory to allow aboriginal peoples to vote and stand for election. However the electoral districts created for the election included only the west portion of the territories thus disenfranchising the prominently aboriginal eastern portion of the territory. When the nominations closed on August 20, 1951 no aboriginals stood for office.\n\nUnlike the small elections in the Territories prior to the first general election in 1888, this was considered a general election, since it was based on the dissolution of the previous legislature. It was the smallest general election in Northwest Territories history.\n\nThis was the first election in the Northwest Territories in which women had the right to vote. Female suffrage was permitted under the \"Northwest Territories Elections Ordinance of 1951\", this was the last jurisdiction in Canada to grant voting rights to women. The first woman candidate in the territory's history also ran in this election: Vivian Roberts from Aklavik.\n\nThe writ for the election was dropped on July 3, 1951 and the nominations closed on August 20, 1951.\n\nNote:\n\nFor complete electoral history, see individual districts\n\n"}
{"id": "2209483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209483", "title": "Arts &amp; Crafts Productions", "text": "Arts &amp; Crafts Productions\n\nArts & Crafts Productions is a music-focused media and artist services company that offers information as an independent record label, management firm, merchandiser, and publisher worldwide. It has earned 21 Juno Awards. Arts & Crafts has been called one of Canada's most important record labels.\n\nArts & Crafts (also referred to as \"A&C\") was launched as a music company in 2003 by friends Jeffrey Remedios & Daniel Cutler both former Virgin Records executives as well as Kevin Drew, who co-founded flagship group Broken Social Scene (BSS) with Brendan Canning. The partnership was originally intended as a vehicle for self-release and artist management of Broken Social Scene's breakthrough album \"You Forgot It in People\", and the structure quickly formed as a platform to release albums and manage the careers of artists directly affiliated with members of Broken Social Scene. In addition to BSS albums the labels first releases were by Stars, Jason Collett, Feist, Apostle of Hustle and Valley of the Giants.\n\nIn 2005 The Most Serene Republic was the first band unrelated to Broken Social Scene to sign to Arts & Crafts and officially marked a shift of scope broader than the projects related to Broken Social Scene.\n\nA&C began its foray into the digital music business launching GalleryAC.com in 2005, a boutique web store that offered digital downloads and Arts & Crafts related merchandise. They were one of the first labels to launch a digital download store.\n\nIn 2004, Remedios expanded the operation into Montreal basing himself out of the offices of DKD who later partnered to form Arts & Crafts International, releasing the gold selling album \"Set Yourself on Fire\" by Montreal-based group, Stars.\n\nArts & Crafts were among the first labels to offer a strategy for combating advance music leaks by offering Stars follow-up album \"In Our Bedroom After the War\" for sale before promotional copies were ever manufactured and distributed by issuing wide release as a digital download only 3 days following album completion.\n\nIn 2009 \"Rolling Stone\" cited Remedios as a key insider reshaping the future of the music biz.\n\nOn April 5, 2017, Caroline Distribution became the US distributor for the Arts & Crafts label in the US. The label was previously distributed by RED Distribution in the US. EMI Music Canada previously distributed the label in Canada, when, in 2013, EMI Music Canada was merged into Universal Music Canada.\n\nArts & Crafts Music (also known as GalleryAC Music) controls or administers the publishing rights to much of the music released by the Arts & Crafts label.\n\nOn 14 January 2013, Arts & Crafts announced it would be holding the Field Trip Arts & Crafts Music Festival to commemorate their ten-year anniversary. Signed on to headline are Arts & Crafts labelmates Broken Social Scene, Feist, and Stars. Along with the festival celebration, Arts & Crafts will be releasing a rarities compilation titled, \"Arts & Crafts: 2003-2013\". The compilation will be released as a double album or four LPs and will include selected rarities from across the Arts & Crafts catalog. A second compilation album, \"\", was released in May and featured newly recorded collaborations between A&C artists.\n\nThe 2009 release of \"This Book Is Broken\" (House of Anansi Press) documented the rise of Toronto indie bands, focusing especially on Broken Social Scene and the Arts & Crafts roster.\n\nA design house, Arts & Crafts is well known for a consistent look and quality to all releases. Design and art are important to the company, and are taken as another medium of artistic expression that the label supports.\n\nA&C has been nominated for five JUNO Awards for Album Artwork of the year. In 2006 for Broken Social Scene: \"Broken Social Scene\" (Louise Upperton (Director/Designer); Christopher Mills, Kevin Drew, Justin Peroff (Illustrators)), in 2009 for Constantines: Kensington Heights (Dallas Wherle, Robyn Kotyk and Alex Vs. Alex). In 2011, Kotyk, Peroff, Charles Spearin, Joe McKay, Jimmy Collins and Elisabeth Chicoine were awarded the Recording Package of the Year Juno for Broken Social Scene's \"Forgiveness Rock Record\" box set and in 2012 for Timber Timbre's \"Creep On Creepin' On\" and Feist's \"Metals\" both earned nominations in the category.\n\nIn 2014, Arts & Crafts designers Kotyk, Peroff, and Petra Cuschieri won another Recording Package of the Year Juno Award for \"Arts & Crafts: 2003-2013\" 4x LP compilation album.\n\nBroken Social Scene \"Broken Social Scene\"\n\nStars \"Set Yourself On Fire\"\n\nBroken Social Scene \"You Forgot It in People\"\n\nFeist \"Let It Die\"\n\nFeist \"The Reminder\"\nFeist \"Metals\"\n\nThe Juno Awards are presented by the Canadian Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences.\nThe Polaris Music Prize is awarded annually to the best full-length Canadian album based on artistic merit.\nThe Canadian Music and Broadcast Industry Awards happen every March in Toronto as part of Canadian Music Week.\nIn 2008 Arts & Crafts opened Arts & Crafts México and are recognized as the first independent music company to focus on the independent music market in Mexico, releasing albums by the A&C North American roster as well as being the Mexican home to a number of other successful artists such as Sonic Youth, Bright Eyes, M. Ward, Metric, and The Dears.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209487", "title": "The World Is a Ball", "text": "The World Is a Ball\n\nThe World is a Ball is a 1986 album by M + M. The album was recorded in Canada and in Bath, England.\n\nThe album's only notable single was \"Song in My Head\". Due to the album's poor chart performance, the band retired for several years, not releasing a new album until 1992's \"Modern Lullaby\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2209490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209490", "title": "Romanization of Arabic", "text": "Romanization of Arabic\n\nThe romanization of Arabic writes written and spoken Arabic in the Latin script in one of various systematic ways. Romanized Arabic is used for a number of different purposes, among them transcription of names and titles, cataloging Arabic language works, language education when used moreover or alongside the Arabic script, and representation of the language in scientific publications by linguists. These formal systems, which often make use of diacritics and non-standard Latin characters and are used in academic settings or for the benefit of non-speakers, contrast with informal means of written communication used by speakers such as the Latin-based Arabic chat alphabet.\n\nDifferent systems and strategies have been developed to address the inherent problems of rendering various Arabic varieties in the Latin script. Examples of such problems are the symbols for Arabic phonemes that do not exist in English or other European languages; the means of representing the Arabic definite article, which is always spelled the same way in written Arabic but has numerous pronunciations in the spoken language depending on context; and the representation of short vowels (usually \"i u\" or \"e o\", accounting for variations such as \"Muslim/Moslem\" or \"Mohammed/Muhammad/Mohamed\").\n\nRomanization is often termed \"transliteration\", but this is not technically correct. \"Transliteration\" is the direct representation of foreign \"letters\" using Latin symbols, while most systems for romanizing Arabic are actually \"transcription\" systems, which represent the \"sound\" of the language. As an example, the above rendering ' of the is a transcription, indicating the pronunciation; an example transliteration would be '.\n\nPrincipal standards and systems are:\n\n\n\n\n\nAny romanization system has to make a number of decisions which are dependent on its intended field of application.\n\nOne basic problem is that written Arabic is normally unvocalized; i.e., many of the vowels are not written out, and must be supplied by a reader familiar with the language. Hence unvocalized Arabic writing does not give a reader unfamiliar with the language sufficient information for accurate pronunciation. As a result, a pure transliteration, e.g., rendering as ', is meaningless to an untrained reader. For this reason, transcriptions are generally used that add vowels, e.g. '. However, unvocalized systems match exactly to written Arabic, unlike vocalized systems such as Arabic chat, which some claim detracts from one's ability to spell.\n\nMost uses of romanization call for transcription rather than transliteration: Instead of transliterating each written letter, they try to reproduce the sound of the words according to the orthography rules of the target language: \"Qaṭar\". This applies equally to scientific and popular applications. A pure transliteration would need to omit vowels (e.g. \"qṭr \"), making the result difficult to interpret except for a subset of trained readers fluent in Arabic. Even if vowels are added, a transliteration system would still need to distinguish between multiple ways of spelling the same sound in the Arabic script, e.g. ' vs. ' for the sound ', and the six different ways () of writing the glottal stop (hamza, usually transcribed '). This sort of detail is needlessly confusing, except in a very few situations (e.g., typesetting text in the Arabic script).\n\nMost issues related to the romanization of Arabic are about transliterating vs. transcribing; others, about what should be romanized:\n\nA transcription may reflect the language as spoken, typically rendering names, for example, by the people of Baghdad (Baghdad Arabic), or the official standard (Literary Arabic) as spoken by a preacher in the mosque or a TV newsreader. A transcription is free to add phonological (such as vowels) or morphological (such as word boundaries) information. Transcriptions will also vary depending on the writing conventions of the target language; compare English \"Omar Khayyam\" with German \"Omar Chajjam\", both for , (unvocalized ', vocalized ').\n\nA transliteration is ideally fully reversible: a machine should be able to transliterate it back into Arabic. A transliteration can be considered as flawed for any one of the following reasons:\n\nA fully accurate transcription may not be necessary for native Arabic speakers, as they would be able to pronounce names and sentences correctly anyway, but it can be very useful for those not fully familiar with spoken Arabic and who are familiar with the Roman alphabet. An accurate transliteration serves as a valuable stepping stone for learning, pronouncing correctly, and distinguishing phonemes. It is a useful tool for anyone who is familiar with the sounds of Arabic but not fully conversant in the language.\n\nOne criticism is that a fully accurate system would require special learning that most do not have to actually pronounce names correctly, and that with a lack of a universal romanization system they will not be pronounced correctly by non-native speakers anyway. The precision will be lost if special characters are not replicated and if a reader is not familiar with Arabic pronunciation.\n\nExamples in Literary Arabic:\nThere have been many instances of national movements to convert Arabic script into Latin script or to romanize the language.\n\nA Beirut newspaper \"La Syrie\" pushed for the change from Arabic script to Latin script in 1922. The major head of this movement was Louis Massignon, a French Orientalist, who brought his concern before the Arabic Language Academy in Damascus in 1928. Massignon's attempt at romanization failed as the Academy and population viewed the proposal as an attempt from the Western world to take over their country. \"Sa'id Afghani\", a member of the Academy, asserted that the movement to romanize the script was a Zionist plan to dominate Lebanon.\n\nAfter the period of colonialism in Egypt, Egyptians were looking for a way to reclaim and reemphasize Egyptian culture. As a result, some Egyptians pushed for an Egyptianization of the Arabic language in which the formal Arabic and the colloquial Arabic would be combined into one language and the Latin alphabet would be used. There was also the idea of finding a way to use hieroglyphics instead of the Latin alphabet. A scholar, Salama Musa, agreed with the idea of applying a Latin alphabet to Egyptian Arabic, as he believed that would allow Egypt to have a closer relationship with the West. He also believed that Latin script was key to the success of Egypt as it would allow for more advances in science and technology. This change in script, he believed, would solve the problems inherent with Arabic, such as a lack of written vowels and difficulties writing foreign words. Ahmad Lutfi As Sayid and Muhammad Azmi, two Egyptian intellectuals, agreed with Musa and supported the push for romanization. The idea that romanization was necessary for modernization and growth in Egypt continued with Abd Al Aziz Fahmi in 1944. He was the chairman for the Writing and Grammar Committee for the Arabic Language Academy of Cairo. He believed and desired to implement romanization in a way that allowed words and spellings to remain somewhat familiar to the Egyptian people. However, this effort failed as the Egyptian people felt a strong cultural tie to the Arabic alphabet, particularly the older generation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209500", "title": "Hashim ibn Abd Manaf", "text": "Hashim ibn Abd Manaf\n\nHāshim ibn ‘Abd Manāf (; ), born ‘Amr al-ʿUlā (), was the great-grandfather of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and the progenitor of the ruling Banu Hashim clan of the Quraysh tribe in Mecca. At some point in his life before his father's death, ‘Amr chose for himself the name \"Hāshim\", as it was the name God used for Abraham (‘Amr was a Hanif, follower of the \"religion of Abraham\"). The narrations from Islamic hagiographists to explain this name change are varied: A narration suggests that `Amr was called Hashim because Hashim translates as \"pulverizer\" in Arabic-- As a generous man, he initiated the practice of providing crumbled bread in broth that was later adapted for the pilgrims to the Ka'aba in Mecca. Another narration claims the name derives from the Arabic root \"Hashm\", \"to save the starving\", because he arranged for the feeding of the people of Mecca during a seasonal famine, and he thus came to be known as \"the man who fed the starved\" ().\n\nIslamic hagiographers give an exotic narration concerning the birth of Hashim. Some consider it to be a very bloody and cruel one, indeed. This narration states that Hashim and 'Abd Shams were conjoined twins born with Hashim's leg attached to his twin brother's head. It says that they had struggled in their mother's womb seeking to be firstborn. Their birth was remembered for Hashim being born with one of his toes pressed into the younger twin brother's forehead. Legend says that their father, 'Abd Manaf ibn Qusai, separated his conjoined sons with a sword and that some priests believed that the blood that had flown between them signified wars between their progeny (confrontations did occur between Bani al'Abbas and Bani Ummaya ibn 'Abd Shams in the year 750 AH). The astrologers of Arabia predicted that Abd Manaf had committed a grave error when he separated both of them by means of a sword. That which he had done was not regarded by them as a good omen.\n\nHashim was the son of Abd Manaf, who argued with his brother 'Abd ad-Dar over the inheritance. 'Abd ad-Dar was supported by their cousins Makhzum, Sahm, Jumah, their uncle Adi and their families. Abd Manaf contested his inheritance and was supported by their nephew Asad, their uncle Zuhrah ibn Kilab, their father's uncle Taym ibn Murrah, and al-Harith ibn Fihr. The effects of this conflict continued among their descendants, especially and affected the internal history of Mecca right up to Muhammad's time.\n\nThe conflict escalated under Hashim, who demanded that the rights be transferred from the clan of Abd ad-Dar to his clan. Those who supported Hashim and his brothers were the descendants of Zuhrah and Taym ibn Murrah, and all Qusay's descendants except those of the eldest line. The descendants of Makhzum and of the other remoter cousins maintained that the rights should remain in the family of Abd ad-Dar.\n\nWhile assembled at the Ka'aba, Hashim and his brothers and all their allies dipped their hands in a bowl of rich perfume with nutmeg powder and swore that they would never abandon one another, rubbing their scented hands over the stone of the Ka'aba in confirmation of their pact. Hashim and his allies were thereafter known as the \"Hilf al-Mutayyabun\" (\"Alliance of the Scented Ones\"), while their rivals also swore an oath of union and organised themselves into the \"Hilf al-Ahlaf\"\" (\"Alliance of the Confederates\"). As neither side wanted a full-scale conflict, they reached a compromise whereby The Scented Ones retained control of the charity tax and the food and drink for pilgrims, where as the Confederates retained the keys to the Ka'aba and the running of the House of Assembly. Hashim's brothers agreed that he should have the responsibility of providing for the pilgrims. Their descendants in the clans named after them tended to keep this old alliance.\n\nHashim was accepted as the overall leader, with the responsibility of providing for the pilgrims in the Ka’aba precincts, with the support of his brothers 'Abd Shams and Muttalib, and his half-brother Nawfal. The only person who challenged Hashim's authority was Umayyah, the son of his brother 'Abd Shams, but he had no real support and shifted to live out his life in Syria. Makkah became the acknowledged capital of Arabia, and markets were established around the city to deal with all the business.\n\nHashim was held in much honour, both at home and abroad. It was Amr who first realised the potential for his family of taking part in the lucrative trade between Syria and Egypt that passed through Arabia. Trading was the most important means of livelihood for the inhabitants of Mecca, a barren 'valley without cultivation'.\n\nHe initiated and established the two great trade caravan journeys of Quraish from Mecca, the Caravan of Winter to Yemen and the Caravan of Summer to north-west Arabia, and beyond it to Palestine and Syria, which were then under Byzantine rule as part of the Roman Empire. After obtaining privileges from the Ghassanid king of Syria, even went in person to Byzantium and procured an edict from the Byzantine Roman Caesar, exempting Quraish from duties or taxes when operating in the countries under his domain. Caesar also wrote to the King Negus of Abyssinia to admit the Quraish there for trade, and Hashim's brother 'Abd Shams had a special permit with him. Muttalib had his treaty with the Himyarites of Yemen, and their half-brother Nawfal with the Persian governments of Iraq and Iran.\n\nHe commenced by going in person to Aden in Yemen to meet the ships coming from India, purchased the stock and transported it first to Mecca and then on to Syria, Gaza or Egypt. There he bought up goods of local manufacture and brought them back to Mecca, mainly selling them at the various Arab markets and fairs. Thus, the Quraish engaged in trade in Yemen, Syria and Ankara which allowed them to flourish economically. The Quraysh were so respected and popular that they felt no fears for their caravans being robbed or harmed along the way, and the various tribes did not even attempt to charge them the usual heavy transit taxes they demanded from other caravans.\n\nHe was generous to a fault, and it was his practical compassion in one year of drought that earned him his famous nickname of \"Hashim, the Crusher\". This was not for crushing or oppressing anyone, but because when the people were starving and emaciated he provided food at his own expense for the entire population of Mecca, personally fetching an immense stock of flour from Syria by camel-caravan, then slaughtering the camels and crushing the bread and meat to provide a soup-kitchen for his people. His descendants are still proudly called Hashemites to this day.\n\nAccording to the 19th Dai of the Dawoodi Bohras, Idris Imad al-Din, who was also an established historian, Hashim died after falling ill on a journey returning from Syria, in Gaza, Palestine in 497. According to tradition, Hashim's tomb is located beneath the dome of Sayed al-Hashim Mosque in the al-Daraj neighborhood of Gaza which is named in his honor. The mosque itself was built around the 12th century.\n\nHis business passed to none of his sons, but to his brothers, the sons of Atikah bint Murrah.\n\nHis father was 'Abd Manaf ibn Qusai who according to Islamic tradition is a descendant of Ibrahim (Abraham) through his son Ismail (Ishmael). His mother was ʻĀtikah bint Murrah ibn Hilāl ibn Fālij ibn Dhakwān. Hashim had two full brothers, the elder was 'Abd Shams and younger was Muttalib who would succeed him, and half-brother Nawfal whose mother was Waqida bint Amr.\n\nHe had at least five wives, four sons, and six daughters. His first three wives were his grandmother Hubba bint Hulail's niece Qaylah (or Hind) bint Amr ibn Malik of the Banu Khuza'a, Halah (Hind) bint Amr ibn Thalabah al-Khazrajiyah, and a woman from the Banu Quda'a, the people of Qusai's stepfather who had been so supportive of his cause. For his fourth wife, he married his father's widow, Waqida bint Amr (Abu Adiy) al-Maziniyyah, who was the mother of his half-brother Nawfal. His fifth wife was Salma bint Amr, a woman from Yathrib, one of the most influential women of the Banu Khazraj tribe and the daughter of 'Amr of Banu Najjar clan.\n\nBy Qaylah, he had a son Asad (Ali's maternal grandfather). By Halah, he had the son Abu Saifi, and daughter Hayyah (or Hannah). By Waqida, he had the daughters Khalidah and Da'ifa. By the woman of Banu Quda'a, he had the son Nadla (or Nadh) and daughter Ash-Shifa. By Salma bint Amr he had Shaiba/'Abd al-Muṭṭalib- the paternal grandfather of Muhammad- and a daughter Ruqayyah. There was another son Sayfayyah, and another daughter Jannah.\n\nFamily Tree\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209506", "title": "Then Again: A Retrospective", "text": "Then Again: A Retrospective\n\nThen Again: A Retrospective is a 1998 compilation album by Martha and the Muffins. Although credited to the band's original name, it includes songs from both the full name and M + M phases of the band's career.\n\nThe album contains one new song, \"Resurrection\", one of only two new tracks released by the band between their 1992 album \"Modern Lullaby\" and their 2010 album \"Delicate\".\n"}
{"id": "2209511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209511", "title": "Los Angeles City Attorney", "text": "Los Angeles City Attorney\n\nThe Los Angeles City Attorney is an elected official who serves as the city of Los Angeles' government's lawyer and as a criminal prosecutor for misdemeanor violations. The Los Angeles County District Attorney prosecutes felonies. The city attorney is elected for four years, and the city charter requires the city attorney to be a lawyer qualified to practice in the California courts for five years preceding his or her election. In addition the General Counsel Division of the office provides legal counsel for the city and represents it in civil actions.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209517", "title": "List of radio stations in Louisiana", "text": "List of radio stations in Louisiana\n\nThe following is a list of Federal Communications Commission–licensed radio stations in the American state of Louisiana, which can be sorted by their call signs, frequencies, cities of license, licensees, and programming formats.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209524", "title": "Akhkhazu", "text": "Akhkhazu\n\nAkhkhazu is a female demon from the Akkadic mythology. Her Sumerian name is Dimme-kur. She is also called \"the seizer\".\n\nShe brings fever and plagues and is a member of a trio of female demons (Labasu, Labartu, Akhkhazu). Despite the fact the word \"Akhkhazu\" has a male gender, Akhkazu is often described as having a female nature.\n\nSource: Birth in Babylonia and the Bible. From the Cuneiform Monographs, Authors = Martin Stol, inc. chapter by F.A.M. Wiggerman; Styx Publications, Groningen, (c) 2000.\n"}
{"id": "2209527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209527", "title": "Dillinger (1945 film)", "text": "Dillinger (1945 film)\n\nDillinger is a 1945 gangster film noir telling the story of John Dillinger.\n\nThe film was directed by Max Nosseck. \"Dillinger\" was the first major film to star Lawrence Tierney. The B-movie was shot in black and white and features a smoke-bomb bank robbery edited into the film from the 1937 Fritz Lang film \"You Only Live Once\". The film was released on DVD by Warner Bros. for the \"Film Noir Classic Collections 2\" in 2005, even though the film generally is not regarded as being film noir. Some sequences were shot at Big Bear Lake, California.\n\nA newsreel plays, summing up the gangster life of John Dillinger in detail. At the end of the newsreel, Dillinger's father walks onto the stage and speaks to the movie audience about his son's childhood back in Indiana, which he says was ordinary and not very eventful, but concedes that his son had ambitions and wanted to go his own way. The young Dillinger left his town to find his fortune in Indianapolis, but soon ran out of money. The scene fades to a restaurant, where John is on a date and finds himself humiliated by the waiter who refuses to accept a check for the meal; John excuses himself, runs into a nearby grocery store and robs it for $7.20 in cash. He makes the clerk at the store believe he has a gun in his hand under the jacket.\n\nJohn is soon arrested for this felony, and he is sentenced to prison. When incarcerated, he becomes good friends with Specs Green, his cell mate. Specs is an infamous bank robber whos gangMarco Minnelli, Doc Madison and Kirk Ottoare also in the same prison. John is impressed by Specs and his experience and intelligence, and begins to look up to him as a father figure.\n\nBecause John has a much shorter sentence, he decides he will be the gang's outside help when he is released, intending to facilitate their escape. As soon as John is free, he holds up the box office at a movie theater. Before he does, he flirts with the female clerk, Helen Rogers, with the result that she refuses to identify him in the police line-up after the robbery. Instead she goes on a date with John.\n\nJohn continues his criminal spree of robberies for money to finance the escape of Specs' gang. When he has enough, he devises a plan to smuggle a barrel of firearms to the gang at their quarry job site. The plan succeeds, they add John to their gang, then start a crime wave of robberies in the American Midwest.\n\nSpecs sends John to scout for new targets because he is the only one not recognized by the witnesses at the quarry at the time of the gang's escape. John checks out the Farmer's Trust Bank, where he poses as a potential customer to get inside the office. He reports back to the gang that the security system is too sophisticated for them to bypass.\n\nSpecs still wants to hit the bank, and getting tired of John's ego and trigger happiness, he decides to get help from outside the gang. John suggests another way to get into the bank - with gas bombs. John convinces the rest of the gang of his way, and they successfully rob the bank. Back at the hideout, John demands the leader's usual double share of the loot. After John is captured but escapes from jail, he kills Specs and takes his place as the leader of the gang. Running low on cash, they decide to rob a mail train. In the process, gang member Kirk Otto is killed.\n\nThe gang part for a few weeks to lay low, and John and Helen go on a big shopping spree. They meet with the rest of the gang at a cabin lodge owned by Kirk's surrogate parents. They stay there for a while, but when the elderly couple calls the police, Dillinger kills them. Later they realize that the police are closing in on them, so they plan to head to the Western States and continue robbing banks. Before going, Dillinger and his girlfriend spend an evening at the Biograph movie theater in Chicago. Exiting the theater, Dillinger sees the police coming after him. In a gunfight, he is killed in an alley, his only money is $7.20the same as what he took in his first robbery.\n\nPhilip Yordan was an emerging writer who had been collaborating with George Beck. The King Brothers had a deal with Monogram Pictures and wanted Beck to write them a gangster picture but could not offer Beck's regular fee so he recommended Yordan instead. Yordan wrote \"Dillinger\" but Monogram's head of production Steve Broidy thought it would cost $50,000 and would be too expensive unless they could hire a name actor to play the lead, like Chester Morris. Yordan wanted Lawrence Tierney to play the role as \"boy he looked like Dillinger and he was mean\". He refused to see the script unless he was cast. Yordan went on to write other scripts for the King Brothers instead, \"The Unknown Guest\" and \"When Strangers Marry\". Both were successful, and Tierney was cast in \"Dillinger\", which was given a decent budget.\n\nYordan says that William Castle was meant to direct the film and he was great assistance on the script.\n\nRobert Tasker also may have worked uncredited on the script.\n\nAccording to Philip Yordan, all the major studios had an agreement not to make movies that might glorify actual gangsters by name, but Monogram was not part of it. He says Louis B. Mayer asked Frank King to destroy the negative, but King refused when Mayer did not offer any compensation. Yordan says the film made $4 million of which he got a third. It is not known whether this pact actually existed. \n\nYordan believes he should have won the Academy Award for Best Script but that the Academy, led by Walter Wanger, deliberately overlooked it in favor of \"Marie Louise\", \"some picture made in Switzerland that nobody had ever seen\".\n\nYordan also claims that \"\"Dillinger\" was one of the early crime films of its type. Darryl Zanuck ran that picture again and again, and used it for the basis of many pictures at Fox. In other words, I had created a style.\"\n\nYordan was nominated for the Oscar for Writing Original Screenplay, earning Monogram Pictures its first Oscar nomination for a feature-length film release.\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209529", "title": "Randy Cross", "text": "Randy Cross\n\nRandall Laureat Cross (born April 25, 1954) is an American football analyst and former player. He was a right guard and center in the National Football League (NFL). He played college football for the UCLA Bruins and was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2011.\n\nCross, who was born in Brooklyn, New York, and attended Crespi Carmelite High School in Encino, California. He was renowned as a high school shot put champion in the Southern California CIF from 1970–72, when he was named CIF California State Meet champion in the event, defeating future world record holder Terry Albritton and future WWF wrestling star Jim Neidhart both from Newport Harbor High School in the process.\n\nHe heaved the 12 pound high school shot 67' 6.5\" which remains the Crespi school and stadium record.\n\nAt University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA), Cross was an All-America selection with the Bruins. As a senior, he helped lead his team to the 1976 Rose Bowl championship over top-ranked Ohio State. Cross began his career as a Center, but was moved to Right Guard for his junior year before playing both Guard and Center as senior on a rare rotating nine man offensive line.\n\nOn this rotating line Cross started at RG on the 1st unit and then moved to Center when the next group hit the field. He was named First-team All-America in 1975. He was also a First-team All-Conference selection in 1975 In his career, he was a starter in 28 of 34 career games including his final 23. Randy Cross (and many other UCLA linemen) also played collegiate rugby for the school. Randy was inducted into the College Football Hall of Fame in 2010.\n\nIn 1976, Cross was selected in the second-round of the NFL Draft by the San Francisco 49ers; his 13-year career included three Pro Bowl selections and three Super Bowl championships (SB XVI, XIX, XXIII). Cross' last game as a player was Super Bowl XXIII in 1989.\n\nHe played center from 1976–78 then guard from 1979–87 before finishing his career in San Francisco at center in 1988. Upon his retirement after Super Bowl XXIII, Randy joined the Miller Lite All Star's cast making a series of popular commercials for the brewing giant.\n\nFrom 1989-1993, Cross was a member of the CBS Sports team that covered the NFC playoffs and Super Bowl XXVI. In addition, he served as an analyst for CBS Radio Sports' coverage of Super Bowl XXIV, filling in for Hank Stram when the latter was stricken with laryngitis and had to leave the broadcast in the third quarter of the game.\n\nCross left CBS (following their loss of the NFC package to Fox) to join NBC Sports as a football analyst for NFL telecasts and a part-time analyst for Notre Dame football games. In 1998, he returned to CBS Sports as a game analyst before serving as a studio analyst on \"The NFL Today\" from 1999-2001. He eventually returned to his game analyst duties in 2002.\n\nHe also co-hosts shows on the Sirius NFL Radio. In 2009, he became the color analyst for US Naval Academy home games on CBS College Sports TV. He is the former lead color commentator for New England Patriots pre-season games, from 1995-2012, alongside Don Criqui. Randy was a co-host of the midday show \"Rick and Randy\" with Rick Kamla on WZGC 92-9 The Game a CBS radio station in Atlanta, Georgia before being released from the station.\n\nCross lives in Alpharetta, Georgia, with his wife, Patrice Cross, and their three children. Elder daughter Kelly graduated from University of Georgia and currently works for Levick Strategic Communications in Washington, D.C. She is married and has two daughters. Younger daughter Crystal recently graduated from Auburn University with a degree in BioMedical Science. His son, Brendan Cross, a graduate of Chattahoochee High School in Johns Creek, Georgia, played football for UCLA after transferring from Wake Forest University.\n\nRandy Cross's father, Dennis Cross (1924–1991), was an American actor, who had the lead role in the syndicated adventure series \"The Blue Angels\" (1960–61).\n\n"}
{"id": "2209530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209530", "title": "TechLive", "text": "TechLive\n\nTechLive (formerly known as ZDTV News and TechTV News) was an American live television program that aired from 1998 to 2004 on TechTV, a former television channel that specialized in technology.\n\nThe program broadcast technology- and entertainment-related news, product reviews, and stock market reports. The program was cancelled when the TechTV and G4 channels merged in early 2004.\n"}
{"id": "2209531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209531", "title": "Los Angeles City Controller", "text": "Los Angeles City Controller\n\nThe Los Angeles City Controller is an official in the government of the city of Los Angeles, California. The City Controller is the paymaster and chief accounting officer of the city. Along with the Mayor and the City Attorney, the City Controller is chosen by popular vote every four years.\n\nThe position began in 1878 as the Los Angeles City Auditor and in the early days included secretarial duties for the Los Angeles Common Council as part of the job. Upon the re-election of John S. Myers in 1925, when the city approved a new charter, the name of the position was changed to City Controller. In 2000, another update to the city charter added the power and responsibility of conducting \"performance audits\" of departmental effectiveness.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209534", "title": "Modern Lullaby", "text": "Modern Lullaby\n\nModern Lullaby is a 1992 album by Martha and the Muffins. Although it was released under the band's original name, on this album the band consisted only of Martha Johnson and Mark Gane, the duo who had continued as \"M + M\" following the original band's breakup.\n\nNo singles were released from the album, though the track \"Rainbow Sign\" was promoted to radio, and videos were produced for \"Rainbow Sign\", \"Everybody Has A Place\" and \"Fighting the Monster\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2209546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209546", "title": "Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland", "text": "Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland\n\nThe Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland (Polish: \"Rząd Tymczasowy Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej\" or RTRP) was created by the State National Council (\"Krajowa Rada Narodowa\") on the night of 31 December 1944.\n\nThe Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland was created to take the place of the previous governmental body, the Polish Committee of National Liberation (\"Polski Komitet Wyzwolenia Narodowego\" or PKWN). Because of its location in Lublin, the PKWN was also known as the \"Lublin Committee\". The establishment of the RTRP was an important step in strengthening the control of the Polish Workers' Party and Union of Soviet Socialist Republics in Poland.\n\nOn 1 January 1945, the Polish Committee of National Liberation became the Provisional Government of Republic of Poland. In London, the Polish government-in-exile protested. They issued a declaration that the Soviet Union had \"taken over the sovereign political rights of the Polish nation.\" The governments of Winston Churchill and Franklin D. Roosevelt also issued formal protest, but they took no further action.\n\nThe Provisional Government of the Republic of Poland did not recognize the Polish government-in-exile and proclaimed itself to be the legitimate government of Poland. Initially, the RTRP was only officially recognized by the Soviet Union. But before the Yalta Conference, Joseph Stalin conveyed his intention to the Western Allies that Poland was under the control of the Soviet Union and that he intended for it to stay that way. The RTRP was given control of the Polish territories seized by the Red Army as it advanced westward.\n\nThe RTRP was chaired by the previous Prime Minister of PKWN, Edward Osóbka-Morawski. The Deputy Prime Ministers of the RTRP were Władysław Gomułka of the Polish Workers' Party (PPR, for \"Polska Partia Robotnicza\") and Stanisław Janusz from People's Party. The Minister of defense was Michał Rola-Żymierski. The Minister of Security was Stanisław Radkiewicz.\n\nThe Polish Workers' Party declared that the RTRP was to be a coalition, but in practice all key posts were controlled by PPR. Semi-official control of the RTRP was exercised by Soviet General Ivan Serov. Some Polish Communists, like Władysław Gomułka and Edward Ochab, were opposed to this excessive Soviet control. However, they could do little to change the existing status quo.\n\nOn 18 January, the RTRP was relocated from Lublin to Warsaw.\n\nFrom 30 January to 2 February, the heads of government of the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, and the United States— Joseph Stalin, Winston Churchill, Franklin D. Roosevelt, respectively — attended preliminary discussions on the Yalta Conference in Malta.\n\nFrom 4 February to 12 February, the heads of government of the United States, the United Kingdom, and the Soviet Union attended the Yalta Conference in the Crimea. At Yalta, the following \"Joint Allied Declaration on Poland\" was developed:\n\nThe three heads of governments consider that the Eastern frontier of Poland should follow the Curzon line, with digressions from it in some regions of five to eight kilometers in favor of Poland. They recognize that Poland must receive substantial of accessions of territory in the north and west. They feel that the opinion of the new Polish Provisional Government of National Unity should be sought in due course on the extent of these accessions, and that the final delimitation of the Western frontier of Poland should thereafter await the Peace Conference. \n\nOn 7 February, Churchill documented the following discussion while at Yalta:\n\nOn 23 April, Soviet diplomat Vyacheslav Molotov was in Washington, DC. President Harry S. Truman and the United States Department of State appealed to Molotov for a compromise on the \"Polish question\". On the same day, Prime Minister Edward Osóbka-Morawski of the RTRP announced the following at a press conference:\n\nWe need people who agree with our foreign policy and with our social reforms. Only such a government can do its work properly. We need the collaboration of men who accept the Yalta decisions, not only formally, but in fact. We are making every effort to contact such people. What we do not want are Fascists . . . \n\nOn 28 June 1945, the Provisional Government of Republic of Poland (\"Rząd Tymczasowy Rzeczypospolitej Polskiej\") was transformed into the more coalition-like Provisional Government of National Unity (\"Tymczasowy Rząd Jedności Narodowej\"). This was promised by Stalin at Yalta and done by him as gesture of good will towards the Western Allies and Polish government-in-exile in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2209550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2209550", "title": "Abd Manaf ibn Qusai", "text": "Abd Manaf ibn Qusai\n\nAbd Manaf al-Mughirah ibn Qusai (, \"Abd Manāf al-Mughīrah ibn Quṣayy\") was a Qurayshi and great-great-grandfather of Islamic prophet Muhammad. His father was Quṣai ibn Kilāb.\n\nAbd Manaf was already honoured in his father's lifetime however Qusai preferred his first-born 'Abd ad-Dar and invested him with all his rights, powers, and transferred the ownership of the House of Assembly shortly before his death.\n\nAfter Quṣayy's death, Abd Manaf contested this inheritance. He was supported by their nephew Asad, their uncle Zuhrah ibn Kilab, their father's uncle Taym ibn Murrah (of Banu Taym), and al-Harith ibn Fihr, while 'Abd ad-Dar was supported by their cousins Makhzum, Sahm, Jumah, their uncle Adi and their families. The effects of this conflict continued among their descendants, especially under Abd Manaf's son Hashim and affected the internal history of Mecca right up to Muhammad's time.\n\nAbdu Manaf married several wives of influential tribes, including 'Ātikah bint Murrah ibn Hilāl ibn Fālij ibn Dhakwān ibn Hilal ibn Sa'sa'ah ibn Mu'awiyah ibn Bakr ibn Hawazin al-Hilaliyya of Bani Qays Aylan, Hilal of the Banu Bakr ibn Hawāzin, Raytah of Ta'if, and Waqida bint Amr.\n\nAbd Manaf had three wives: \n1. Atikah bint Murrah al-Hulaliyya \n\n2. Rayta bint Ku'ayb al-Thaqafiyya \n\n\n\n3. Waqidah bint Amr al-Qurayshiyya al-Amiriyya \n\n\nThe grave of ‘Abdu Manāf can be found in Jannatul Mualla cemetery, in Mecca.\n\n\n"}
