{"id": "2257672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257672", "title": "List of Bleach characters", "text": "List of Bleach characters\n\nThe \"Bleach\" manga and anime created by Tite Kubo. The series takes place in a fictional universe in which the characters are split into various factionalized fictional races. All these races are subdivisions of humanity, but are distinguished by whether they live on Earth or in one of the afterlives, by possession of thematically contrasting supernatural powers, and by the use of aesthetics drawn from the artistic traditions of different real-life regions.\n\nThe main character of \"Bleach\" is a Japanese teenager named Ichigo Kurosaki who has the ability to interact with ghosts. One day he is visited by a spirit named Rukia Kuchiki, who is a Soul Reaper from the Soul Society whose mission is to deal with hungering lost souls known as Hollows. When he sees Rukia getting grievously wounded by a Hollow in his presence, Ichigo is granted her powers of exorcism and psychopompy to carry out Rukia's Soul Reaper duties as she recovers. As Ichigo guides the recently deceased to the afterlife while contending with Hollows, he clashes and forms alliances with the other supernaturally powered residents of his city, namely three of his high school classmates.\n\nMany individual \"Bleach\" characters and the series' character design work have been praised, though \"Bleach\"s constantly-expanding character roster has been a point of criticism in the press. The size of the cast has been explained by author Kubo as the result of his writing process, in which he first creates new figures, then writes their personalities and character arcs, and finally assembles these interactions into a new plot. The overall response to this technique is mixed, with some reviewers believing the resulting characters are still relatively stereotypical and often get little individual focus, while others have remarked that even secondary characters feel like protagonists of their very own stories.\n\n\"Bleach\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s creative process is focused around character design. When writing plotlines or having difficulties generating new material, Tite Kubo begins by thinking of new characters, often \"en masse\", and rereading previous volumes of \"Bleach\". Kubo has said that he likes creating characters with outward appearances that do not match their true nature, an element that can be found in many \"Bleach\" characters, as he is \"attracted to people with that seeming contradiction\", and finds an \"urge to draw people like that when [he] works.\" When creating characters for the manga, Kubo first designs character appearances and only then decides what their personalities will be, in reflection of what he drew. When brainstorming character designs, he will go out and draw the faces of real people he sees, a hobby of his dating back to childhood. Kubo considers every character to be unique and wants each of them to have the opportunity for character development in the course of the series. When asked about potentially-romantic relationships between certain characters, Kubo states that he \"doesn't want to turn the series into a love story\", since he thinks there are more exciting aspects of their personalities to draw out.\n\nKubo has cited influences for elements of \"Bleach\" ranging from other manga series to music, foreign language, architecture, and film. He attributes his interest in drawing the supernatural and monsters to Shigeru Mizuki's \"Ge Ge Ge no Kitaro\" and \"Bleach\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s focus on unique weaponry and battle scenes to Masami Kurumada's \"Saint Seiya\", both manga Kubo enjoyed as a boy. \"Bleach\" was first conceived from Kubo's desire to draw a \"shinigami\" in a kimono, which formed the basis for the design of the Soul Reapers. Several characteristics from them such as the \"kidō\" spells and the \"zanpakutō\" swords(katana) are also based on Japanese literature. Rukia Kuchiki was the first character Kubo designed, but he did not see her as a lead character, so he created Ichigo Kurosaki to be the series protagonist. Other characters from the series also use different languages to describe their terminology; the powers from the Quincy are taken from German, while Hollows and Arrancar instead use Spanish terms; for the latter, Kubo believed that the language sounded \"bewitching\" and \"mellow\" and that felt appropriate for a species of ghost. The names of several Arrancar are based on famous architects and designers who inspired scenery appearing in \"Bleach\".\n\n is the main protagonist of the \"Bleach\" series. An orange-haired high school student, Ichigo becomes a \"substitute Soul Reaper\" after unintentionally absorbing most of Rukia Kuchiki's powers. His cynical nature at first makes him ill-disposed towards the duty, but, with the passage of time, he accepts and welcomes the strength his Soul Reaper powers give him. When creating the manga series, Kubo commented that Rukia Kuchiki, the first character he created, did not seem like a lead character, so he created Ichigo to be the series protagonist. \n\n is a long-time classmate of Ichigo Kurosaki and one of his closest friends. She used to have a crush on Ichigo since the beginning, however due to Ichigo's selfless wish to protect his loved ones, Orihime genuinely falls in love with him. Since the age of three, she had been an orphan when her older brother Sora left their abusive parents' home with her and raised her on his own. Later on, when Orihime was in middle school, he died in an accident. Though initially devoid of spiritual powers, she develops spiritual awareness early in the plot and later obtains the god-like ability to warp reality through rejecting past phenomena. \n\n, is a Soul Reaper of Squad 6 in the Gotei 13. When he was first introduced he played an antagonistic role as he was sent to the human world to find Rukia Kuchiki and bring her back to Soul Society. He initially dedicates his life to defeating Ichigo Kurosaki, the protagonist of the series, before joining forces with him to rescue Rukia halfway through the Soul Society arc. He has since become a major protagonist and a consistent ally of Kurosaki. His weapon throughout the series is Zabimaru. Renji is voiced by Kentarō Itō in Japanese and Wally Wingert in English.\n\n is a Soul Reaper,(死神, Shinigami, literally 'Death God'), who is assigned hollow extermination duties in Karakura Town. Rukia meets Ichigo for the first time when she breaks into his house, not knowing that Ichigo can see her. Their relationship further complicates when Rukia tries to save Ichigo and unintentionally transfers too much of her Shinigami powers into him. Rukia is left with little powers left and cannot return to Soul Society. She assumes a temporary lifestyle as a regular human, using a \"gigia\" (human form) obtained from Kisuke Urahara's shop, and enrolls into Ichigo's high school and takes up residence in his closet, while teaching him how to be a substitute Soul Reaper in her place. Rukia was the first character of the series created by Kubo, her design being the one he decided to use for all the other Soul Reapers. \n\n is a Quincy, a descendant of a line of near-extinct, priest-like, hollow-hunting archers, who were historical enemies of the Soul Reapers. He bears a deep grudge against all Soul Reapers, including Ichigo, and is an early antagonist in the series. He comes to view Ichigo differently over time, and eventually becomes a valuable ally and a friendly rival. As a Quincy, Uryū possesses the supernatural power to gather invisible \"spirit particles\" called \"reishi\" from the atmosphere. Once gathered, these particles can be shaped into spirit-energy constructs, foremost among them a bow and arrow, and to fuel various magical spells and superhuman abilities. \n\n, better known as , is one of Ichigo's friends at school. He is of mixed Japanese/Mexican heritage and a student who towers over his classmates at 6 feet 5 inches. Despite his imposing appearance and fearless attitude he is quite meek and refuses to fight unless it is for the sake of another. When he attempts to protect Ichigo's sister Karin and her friends from a hollow, he discovers a unique ability that strengthens and armors his right arm, enabling him to fight hollows. He is quite loyal to his friends, especially Ichigo, who is one of his closest friends. He displays little emotion except when something or someone he cares about is in danger. \n\nHollows are the class of spirit that most enemies in \"Bleach\" are a part of. They are spirits that had been human but were not sent to Soul Society in due time after death. This makes them lose their sense of being and gives them a craving for human souls. Their main characteristic is a white mask completely covering their face and a hole near their chest. Each hollow's mask has a design unique to that individual. The Arrancars, Hollows who acquired humanoid form and Soul Reaper powers, become the primary antagonists later in the series under the command of the rogue Soul Reaper Sōsuke Aizen and the ten strongest Arrancars known as the Espadas. The 10 Espadas are numbered 0–9, 0 being the strongest and 9 the weakest. But the rating also works with spirit pressure density numbered 1–10, with Espada's 0's power contained with a 10 tattoo.\n\n is the main antagonist throughout most of the series. While introduced as the captain of Squad Five, later revealed to have been behind various events prior to the series, Aizen has orchestrated a series of events in the Soul Society to obtain the Hōgyoku for his goal to create an Ōken to kill the Soul King with the aid of the Arrancars and rogue Soul Reapers he recruited. However, revealed to have played an indirect role in Ichigo's conception, Aizen is defeated by the young man before being captured by Kisuke and sentenced to the Muken for 20 millennia.\n\nThe are a group of humans with special abilities. They are the main antagonists during the anime-exclusive Bount and Bount Assault on Soul Society arcs. The Bounts live eternally due to an accident during a scientific experiment earlier in the Soul Society, where they were created, and began to eat the souls of human beings to gain more power. They each have a unique weapon known as a Doll, a familiar which is its creator's power given physical form. Dolls are mostly self-sufficient creatures when released, although they tend to be used as weapons in various ways such as a large battle axe or a snake, as a sword and whip. Their leader Kariya, motivated by the destruction of himself and all connected to him, plans to invade the Soul Society along with the remaining Bounts to destroy it and themselves. However, with the exception of his friend Gō Koga, Kariya managed to have his forces wiped out by the Soul Reapers prior to himself being killed by Ichigo Kurosaki. IGN criticized the Bounts as being \"lame bad guys,\" noting that the \"bittō\" (the Bounts’ mosquito-like creatures that collect souls) in particular were like \"something straight out of a bad sci-fi movie,\" but admitted the Bounts were \"decent plot devices\" to develop the other characters.\n\n\n is a secret organization in Naruki City that makes itself known to Ichigo seventeen months after he loses his Soul Reaper powers and serve as the main antagonists in the first arc after the timeskip. The group is made up of humans whose preborn encounter with hollows resulted in them becoming outcasts who possess a power known as , an ability to manipulate the \"soul\" of an object to bring out its full potential. But a Fullbringer's true power comes from enhancing the soul of an object they are compatible with, such as a prized possession. However, the effects of a Fullbringer's power will cease once the user is dead. Using Tsukishima's Fullbring, Xcution's other members had placed themselves in a fabricated notion that they need a Soul Reaper to become normal humans and train Ichigo to use Fullbring. But once Tsukishima restored their memories, the group reveals their real intention to take Ichigo's Fullbring powers. Though Xcution got Ichigo's Fullbring, they were scattered after Ginjō's death.\n\n\nThe are a group of Quincies under Yhwach who serve as the antagonists of the final storyline of the series. Their attire usually consists of long white trench coats fitted with numerous buttons, a cape, a belt (usually a piece individual to each member), and a five-pointed cross, the Quincy Zeichen, somewhere upon the uniform. The Wandenreich named their group from the act of hiding themselves and their fortress within a pocket dimension in the Seireitei's shadows called . Apparently founded by the survivors of the Quincy massacre a millennium ago, the Wandenreich have been preparing to exact revenge on the Soul Reapers once amassing enough power to do so once their leader is revived. In the aftermath of Aizen's defeat, the Wandenreich conquered Hueco Mundo and captured numerous Arrancars (including the former Espada Tier Harribel) to serve as their personal Vanguards and foot soldiers. The Wandereich orchestrated two invasions on the Soul Society, the first leading to the notable deaths of Squad One's Lieutenant Chōjirō Sasakibe and Head-Captain Yamamoto. After absorbing the Soul King and altering the Royal Palace by submerging it with the Silbern, renaming it the , the Wandenreich planned to create a new world order, which would require a total genocide by destroying the Soul Society, the Real World and Hueco Mundo. However, after absorbing Ichigo's powers and the last two Sternritter survivors, Yhwach reveals his true goal was to eliminate all life in existence for bringing ruin and death to all living begins (including his children, the Quincys) for all eternity.\n\nQuilge Opie leads one of the many groups that hunt Arrancars. The Wandenreich also includes the serving as low-ranking soldiers sent to exterminate the remaining enemy soldiers after the elite force, the , have done defeating them. Four of the Sternritters, known as the are additionally handpicked by Yhwach to serve as his personal bodyguards.\n\n, the main antagonist of the final arc and by far the most powerful enemy of the entire series, is the sovereign of the Wandenreich and the supposed progenitor of all Quincies. Yhwach is also the son of the Soul King, the being whose existence is vital to the Soul Society. Yhwach bares the epithet \"A\" for , the ability to see anything and everything that can occur all possible futures, and when he sees and knows of a power, it is rendered unable to defeat him. At its full capability, the ability can also alter the future in any way Yhwach wishes. When Yhwach was born, he already demonstrated supernatural abilities through infusing a part of his soul in other people to heal them of injuries and disabilities. But the moment a person healed this way dies, Yhwach regains that fragment while gaining that person's abilities and knowledge. As this extended his life, revered as a holy child, Yhwach took the name of YHWH which the people proclaimed in his presence. Yhwach resolved to destroy the current reality to create a world without death, defeated by Yamamoto a millennia prior to the events of the series and sealed away for nine centuries and nine decades. Upon being freed, Yhwach spent the next nine years stealing the powers from \"impure\" Quincies to regain his power through his life-manipulating ability . Among his victims were Ichigo's mother Masaki Kurosaki as she protected her son Ichigo from the Hollow Grand Fisher, and Uryū's mother Kanae Katagiri. It appears his time imprisoned has left his sanity in question; he claims everything he is doing is for peace despite his sadistic behavior and dark humor.\n\nMonths after Aizen's defeat, Yhwach conquers Hueco Mundo by defeating its current leader Tier Harribel and imprisoning her while employing Arrancars as foot soldiers for the Wandenreich in preparation to invade the Soul Society. As Ichigo Kurosaki battled Quilge, Yhwach has the Sternritters invade the Soul Society and attempted to recruit Aizen while having Royd Lloyd pose as him. But once Yhwach arrives and executes Royd, he steals Yamamoto's Bankai and uses it to kill him. Shortly after, Yhwach is then confronted by Ichigo and has a brief battle with him, during which he reveals that his mother Masaki was a Quincy before departing. Several days later, as Ichigo learned of his ties to the Quincy through both his mother and Zangetsu's likeness to how Yhwach looked 1000 years ago, Yhwach has Haschwalth bring Uryū Ishida before him. Telling Uryū that he was the only impure Quincy who survived the effects of Auswählen, having a power that surpasses his own, Yhwach makes the young Quincy his heir before returning to the Soul Society to enact the final phase of his plan.\n\nShortly thereafter, Yhwach launches another attack on the Soul Society, replacing the Seireitei with Silbern. He oversees the battle and renders judgement on his subordinates who lost their battles, namely Cang Du and BG9. It is revealed that Yhwach spread pieces of his soul all over the Seireitei so that each death that occurs on the battlefield would prolong his life. After Ichigo returns to the Soul Society, Yhwach uses the opportunity to invade the Royal Realm where the Soul King resides. Accompanied by Uryū and Haschwalth, Yhwach is revealed to be accompanied by his strongest Sternritters as well when he summons them to engage Squad 0 and then revives them at the cost of his less powerful followers with Auswählen. From there, forced to reveal his true power, Yhwach defeats Ichibē Hyōsube before finding the Soul King. Though he mortally wounded the Soul King, Yhwach uses his influence over Ichigo's Quincy powers to have him kill the Soul King. But when Mimihagi intervened through Ukitake's sacrifice, Uryū holding off Ichigo, Yhwach decides to absorb Mimihagi while ordering his forces to kill anyone who intends to stop him from fully absorbing the Soul King. Yhwach eventually absorbed the entirety of the Soul King and Mimihagi's power before transforming the Soul King realm into the Wahrwelt, eventually revealing his intentions to be the only living thing in existence as he proceeds to carry out the task with Ichigo pursuing him. But after Aizen's attempt on his life, Yhwach ends up being killed by Ichigo after Uryū weakens the Quincy so a death blow can be made. Dying after telling Ichigo he condemned the world to continue the cycle of life and death, Yhwach's spiritual pressure would briefly manifest ten years later before being extinguished. Yhwach is voiced by Takayuki Sugō in the Japanese game \"Bleach: Brave Souls\".\n\n is Yhwach's right-hand man and grandmaster of the Sternritter and also has the epithet \"B\" for , which allows Haschwalth to reflect any misfortune he suffers towards his opponent. Being a rare Quincy as he was born with the same power as Yhwach as he can possess his power while the older Quincy rests, Haschwalth lived with his uncle as a child before watching him die in a forest fire incited by Yhwach. Though Haschwalth and his childhood friend Bazz-B trained to someday avenge their losses, they ended up in the Wandenreich with Haschwalth's ability recognized by Yhwach and made his right-hand instantly. Like the rest of the Wandenreich, Haschwalth was sent to deliver their leader's war declaration, killing Squad 13's Hidetomo Kajomaru during the first invasion. Sometime later, Haschwalth helps Yhwach in his plan to steal Yamamoto's bankai by accompanying Royd Lloyd after he assumed their leader's form. After Yamamoto's death, Haschwalth is told to convey to the other Sternritter that they were to raze Soul Society before Ichigo arrived. He watches his master fight Ichigo before being called back to their palace, before which he easily breaks Ichigo's bankai. During Uryū Ishida's appointment as Yhwach's successor, Haschwalth remains calm while the other Sternritters object and preferred him over Uryū. Later, during the Wandenreich's second invasion, Haschwalth confronts Shunsui Kyōraku and Nanao Ise despite the latter uses a special \"kidō\" capable of preventing any Quincy from entering. Though Haschwalth breaks through the barrier, he is called back by Yhwach to punish the Sternritters who lost their respective fights. Haschwalth later creates the passage to the Royal Realm and accompanies Yhwach to help in his taking of the Soul King's powers, later mortally wounding Bazz-B in battle and questioning Uryū's loyalties while possessing Yhwach's Almighty ability. But when Yhwach uses his Auswählen on him, knowing his fate is sealed, Haschwalth uses his power to transfer Uryū's wounds onto himself before dying.\n\n is a cloaked Sternritter, as well as the Soul King's animate left arm, who has the epithet \"C\" for , a sight-related ability that causes the opponent to collapse inward through a distortive variation of a Quincy's Blut ability invading the target's body. Pernida can also use that ability to manipulative inanimate objects and environments as well while absorbing the traits of those his Blut nerves infected. As one of the Schutzstaffel, Pernida was hidden away in Yhwach's shadow until summoned to fight Senjumaru Shutara's forces with her largest guard fatally distorted by Pernida's power before being killed by Ōetsu Nimaiya. Pernida is revived by Yhwach activating his Auswählen, facing Kenpachi Zaraki when he and Mayuri Kurotsuchi confront the mysterious Quincy who has orders to kill any intruders in the altered Royal Realm. Though he effectively takes Kenpachi out of the fight by forcing the latter to amputate his distorted right arm, Pernida is forced to discard his cloak after Mayuri deduces the Quincy's attack method and severely injures him. Pernida proceeds to use his power as the Soul King's left arm to take out Mayuri, who wants to study the entity a while more. But Pernida's regenerative abilities prove difficult for Mayuri before he uses Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō: Makai Fukuin Shōtai to create a Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō designed to counter Pernida before having his Zanpakutō eat Pernida. But Pernida destroys Konjiki Ashisogi Jizō from the inside before managing to destroy Mayuri's left arm prior to Nemu getting involved to heal her captain's arm, with Mayuri realizing Pernida's evolution ability as Nemu goes out all to protect him. But a Pernida clone manages to kill Nemu and eats her body, only to end up dying from excess regeneration due to the lieutenant's cellular makeup.\n\n is a male Sternritter who has the epithet \"D\" for , which allows Askin to calculate the \"absolute lethal dose\" of substance by consuming a lethal dosage of it. This allows him to not only increase or decrease the lethal dosage needed to kill his opponent, he can render himself immune to all consumed substances and projects it through attacks like .\n\nDuring the Wandenreich's second invasion, Askin appears in the place that had housed the Soul Society's Research and Development Institute, surprising most of its inhabitants yet taking his leave when Mayuri and Nemu Kurotsuchi appear. Noticing BG9's defeat against Suì Fēng, Askin confirms Mayuri's suspicions that the Wandenreich have prepared the possibility that the Soul Reapers have trained in different powers after their bankai had been stolen by them. Askin later accompanies Yhwach to the Royal Dimension after being promoted to as the fourth member of Schutzstaffel, the last to be killed by Ōetsu Nimaiya after his plot to poison the Soul Reaper's blood is thwarted when Nimaiya simply has Tenjirō Kirinji replace his blood with hot spring water. But Askin is revived by Yhwach activating his Auswählen, later finding himself fighting for his life against Grimmjow Jaegerjaquez when he confronts Ichigo's group while sent to kill any intruders in the altered Royal Realm.\n\nAs Ichigo, Chad and Orihime move on, Askin fights against Yoruichi and Yūshirō Shihōin, defeating the latter before finding himself facing Urahara as he instigates Yoruichi's transformation. This forces Askin activate his Vollständig, , defeating Yoruichi while using his Gift Ring to blind Urahara in one eye. But Urahara activates his Bankai to overwhelm Askin, distracting the Quincy long enough for Grimmjow to land the death blow from behind. However, upon his death, Askin activate his Gift Ball Deluxe to increase in lethalness to kill both Urahara and Grimmjow resulting in the two being saved by Nelliel before they are taken by the poison.\n\n is a sadistic female Sternritter who has the epithet \"E\" for , able to create bombs out of anything she mixes her spirit energy into. Bambietta fights with the 7th Division captain, Sajin Komamura, and steals his bankai. Like most of the Wandenreich, she is opposed to Uryu being named Yhwach's successor. During the Wandenreich's second invasion, she fought both Shinji Hirako and Komamura, the former of whom she manages to incapacitate despite his shikai state. However, Komamura manages to retrieve his bankai from Bambietta, at which point she activates her Vollständig, which amplifies her power and causes her to grow wings and a pentacle-shaped halo. The two fight, with Komamura using his Human Transformation technique and bankai to overwhelm and defeat Bambietta. Though she barely survived Komamura's attack, Bambietta is killed off by her fellow female Quincies to be used as Giselle's zombie bodyguard. In this new state, she is later summoned by Giselle to fight Ikkaku and Yumichika and defeated by Charlotte Chuhlhourne before later being reduced to a lifeless corpse when Giselle is forced to drain her blood to treat her mortal injuries.\n\n is a male Sternritter member who has the epithet \"F\" for , due to his ability to infect opponents with paralyzing, unstoppable fear. Normally, this only works if he stabs his enemies with his reiatsu thorns; however, upon activating his Vollständig, he can infect them by eye contact. In battles, he has a tendency to rant about the nature of fear, believing that true fear is instinctual and therefore unavoidable. Having been raised on the concept of Heaven and Hell, Äs is fearful of death and pain. While hospitalized and close to death, Äs is approached by Yhwach and accepts the Quincy's offer of power. During the first invasion, Äs Nödt stole Byakuya's bankai and used it to nearly kill him before interfering in Yamamoto's battles with Royd Lloyd alongside NaNaNa and Bazz-B, forced to fall back after getting nearly incinerated by Yamamoto's Ryujin Jakka. He later appears when Yhwach names Uryu Ishida as his successor. During the second invasion with orders to kill Byakuya, Äs Nödt confronts Rukia who is traveling across Seireitei in search for other Soul Reapers. With Rukia refusing to tell him where Byakuya is, Äs finds that Rukia is unaffected by his power as she is technically not alive by using her newly perfected Sode no Shirayuki's freezing power, thus not being able to feel fear. Rukia then proceeds to freeze Äs Nödt. The attack fails, as Äs merely activates his Vollständig, , and infects Rukia via his enhanced powers before being sliced through by a newly recovered Byakuya. Äs recovers and assumes a more monstrous form on the expectation that Byakuya is going to be his opponent, only to be destroyed when Rukia activates her Bankai, Hakka no Togame, and takes him out in one hit.\n\n is a young female Quincy with the epithet \"G\" for , the ability to extend her mouth into a massive maw to consume anything larger than herself. Despite her relatively petite appearance, she is quite profane, as shown when she calls out Bambietta for her habit in killing handsome men for her pleasure. When she and the other female Sternritters attack Kenpachi in his weakened state after he defeated Gremmy, Liltotto devours many of the Soul Reaper reinforcements. She later unsuccessfully attempts to attack Ichigo upon his return, thwarted by Ichigo himself, her fellow Sternritter Bazz-B, and then by several members of Gotei 13. Later, after nearly being killed by PePe's love spell on Meninas, Liltotto activates her Vollständig and proceeds to eat him upon his defeat by Kensei. She later manages to find Giselle, and the two are approached by a terrified and hysterical Robert Accutrone as he reveals Yhwach is going to use Auswählen to sacrifice all of them. Devastated by the treachery, Liltotto barely manages to grab Giselle as they escape with their lives despite losing their Quincy powers. Hurt by Yhwach's betrayal, Liltotto joins forces with Bazz-B to ally themselves with the Soul Reapers in entering the Royal Realm to kill their former master. Though she and Giselle reach Yhwach, they were overpowered and defeated.\n\n, short for Bazzard Black, is a hot-blooded and merciless male Sternritter who has the epithet \"H\" for as he can manipulate the temperature of surrounding spirit pressure with a finger to create flames and explosions, increasing the potency up to all five fingers. He is a childhood friend of Haschwalth, whom he nicknamed \"Jugo\", having crossed paths with him while the latter was hunting a rabbit. He vows to kill Yhwach ever since the sovereign burned down his home and trained with Haschwalth for five years, intending to earn Yhwach's trust afterward. Bazz-B defeated Izuru Kira and the other 3rd Squad members when he appeared in Soul Society, using his power to offset Head Captain Yamamoto's attack when it was about to consume him and his fellow Sternritters. He was one of the Quincy most opposed to Uryu Ishida being named Yhwach's successor, thinking Haschwalth would be the successor and confronting him about his acceptance to their leader's ruling. During the second invasion, Bazz-B overpowers Hitsugaya before Cang intervened to kill the Soul Reaper captain. Bazz-B later confronts Shinji, Momo, and Marechiyo, intending to stop them from intervening Kenpachi's fight with the other Sternritters. He then stops Candice and her group from fighting Ichigo any further prior to Yhwach's arrival to the battlefield. After failing to kill Ichigo, Bazz-B takes on Rukia and Renji before he loses his power then Yhwach uses his Auswählen on him and the other surviving members left to fight the Soul Reapers of Squad 0. Bazz-B regroups with Liltotto and Giselle as they ally themselves with the Soul Reapers in entering the Royal Realm to kill their former master. Bazz-B eventually finds Haschwalth, livid to learn that his friend knew the full effect of Auswählen and did nothing as he resolves to kill him first. But Bazz-B loses his right arm to Haschwalth before being left to bleed to death after being slashed down the left flank.\n\n is a male Sternritter who has the epithet \"I\" for as he can turn his skin into a hardened material. During the first invasion, Cang fights Tōshiro Hitsugaya and Rangiku Matsumoto and manages to steal the former's bankai. In the second invasion, Cang is ordered to personally kill Hitsugaya, interrupting the latter's fight with Bazz-B. When Cang tries to activate Daiguren Hyōrinmaru, he is forced to relinquish the Bankai due to Hitsugaya's use of the Shin'eiyaku to temporary Hollowfy him contaminated the weapon. Cang is eventually defeated and encased in ice with Hitsugaya's attacks, although he manages to break out of it after the activation of his Vollständig. Nevertheless, Cang was imprisoned alongside BG9 and brought before Yhwach for judgment. Though he uses his ability on the grounds of refusing to die by the hands of any other than Yhwach, Cang is bisected by Haschwalth.\n\n is one of the leaders of the Jagdarmee squad who has the epithet \"J\" for due to his ability to create flawless cages made of spirit energy. He is assigned in Hueco Mundo to capture Arrancars for Yhwach to use as Vanguards for the Wandenreich, having no toleration for disobedience and willing to act in a barbaric manner if offended. After easily defeating Loly and Menoly as well as Harribel's Fracción, he is confronted by Ichigo and his friends. He engages Ichigo in battle and activates his Vollständig, and uses his Sklaverei ability to absorb Ayon. Receiving orders from Yhwach to keep Ichigo occupied while the Sternritter invade the Soul Society, Quilge struggles to keep up with Ichigo's movements and is unsuccessful in stealing Ichigo's bankai, causing Ichigo to assume the Wandenreich fear a Shinigami's bankai. Falling for one of Ichigo's taunts, Quilge attempts a counterattack only to be shot from behind by Kisuke Urahara. However, Quilge gets back up using Ransōtengai and shoots Urahara in the back, as well as severely injuring Yasutora Sado and Orihime Inoue and imprisoning Ichigo in an seemingly impenetrable cage. Just as when he was about to move in to kill the others, he is sliced in half by an off screen (or off panel) Grimmjow Jagerjaquez, effectively killing him.\n\n is a helmeted Sternritter who has the epithet \"K\". It has a single glowing eye, hides various robotic tendrils and artillery beneath its cloak and claims to have never \"breathed\", leading Suì Fēng to believe it is a robot. It is cruel and sadistic, not above threatening children if his demands are not met, as seen when he injures Omaeda's younger sister with one of his tendrils.\n\nDuring the Wandenreich's initial invasion of the Soul Society, BG9 stole Suì Fēng's bankai. While looking for Suì Fēng during the second invasion, it finds Omaeda and takes his younger sister as a hostage to force the lieutenant to give him his captain's whereabouts. Though attacked from behind by Suì Fēng, BG9 is unscathed as he greatly injures the captain with its weapons. Before it can deliver a finishing blow, Suì Fēng regains control of her bankai and uses it to attack BG9. As a result of its defeat, BG9 is brought before Yhwach for judgment while watching the execution of Cang.\n\n is an overweight male Sternritter with a staff who has the epithet \"L\" for , the ability to make people and anything with a heart madly fall in love with him to the point of attacking their own allies when asked. For the duration of the second Wandenreich invasion, PePe stood on the sidelines before he personally gets involved in the fighting by first forcing Hisagi to attack Byakuya and then having Meninas attack Liltotto so he would not have to share the credit for wiping out their opponents. Defeating Hisagi, Byakuya attempts to kill PePe after losing his \"zanpakutō\" to the Quincy's power. After assuming a Cupid-like form from his Vollständig , PePe is stopped from killing Byakuya by the arrival of the zombified Kensei Muguruma and Rōjūrō Ōtoribashi after Mayuri took control of them. Easily defeated by facing opponents who are immune as they do not know the meaning of love, a mortified PePe finds himself at Liltotto's mercy before she proceeds to devour him.\n\n is a muscular male Sternritter, believed to be the Soul King's animate heart, who wears a winged helmet and has the epithet \"M\" for . This power allows Gerard to manifest the thoughts, feelings, and desires of the masses into reality. By manifesting the Soul Reapers' fear of him, he was able to empower himself, increasing his . As one of the Schutzstaffel, Gerard hides in Yhwach's shadow before being called forth to disarm Senjumaru Shutara while helping Pernida kill off Shutara's reinforcement guards. Though Gerard is easily killed by Ōetsu Nimaiya, he is brought back by Yhwach using Auswählen. Gerard is then given orders to kill any intruders in the altered Royal Realm, facing a group of Soul Reapers led by Shinji and Renji. But after grievous injuries inflicted on him by Byakuya, Gerard uses The Miracle to turn himself into a giant as he overwhelms the Soul Reapers before being frozen by Hitsugaya. Gerard breaks free, however, and engages both Hitsugaya, Byakuya, and Kenpachi in battle. After Kenpachi activates his Bankai and manages to bisect Gerard, Gerard recovers by activating his Vollständig, , in response. Eventually, Gerard is killed by Yhwach's Auswählen after the Quincy Emperor has stolen Ichigo's powers.\n\n is an elderly male Sternritter who has the epithet \"N\". During the first Wandenreich assault on the Soul Society, Robert fights Shunsui Kyōraku and takes out the Soul Reaper captain with his Vollständig . He is later present when Yhwach declares Uryū Ishida will be his successor, and like the rest of the Wandenreich, Robert is shocked by his leader's decision. During the second invasion of the Seireitei, he and the other Stenritters confronting Ichigo Kurosaki, Robert is attacked and defeated by Byakuya Kuchiki. Recovering from his wounds before learning that Yhwach has continued without him and the others, Robert realizes the significance behind their leader's actions as he attempts to warn Liltotto before being killed as the consequence of Yhwach's Auswählen.\n\n is a large male Sternritter who has the epithet \"O\" for , reflecting his power to become stronger every time he kills someone, such as Squad One's Lieutenant Chōjirō Sasakibe while stealing his bankai, Kōkō Gonryō Rikyū. He fights and defeats Shuhei Hisagi easily and is soon engaged by Yamamoto himself. Delighted, Driscoll activates Chōjirō's bankai and tries to kill the Head-Captain with it. However, it fails to have any significant effect on Yamamoto, who easily burns Driscoll to his bones, killing him instantly.\n\n is a female Sternritter who has the epithet \"P\" for , possessing immense superhuman strength. When she and the other female Sternritters attack Kenpachi in his weakened state after he defeated Gremmy, immobilizing him with a single punch, Meninas focuses her attacks on the Soul Reaper captain while her associates deal with the Soul Reaper reinforcements. She later unsuccessfully attempts to attack Ichigo upon his return, thwarted by Ichigo himself, her fellow Sternritter Bazz-B, and then by several members of Gotei 13. During the battle with the remainder of the Gotei 13, Meninas is struck by PePe's \"The Love\" and ordered by him to attack Liltotto before being immobilized.\n\n is a female Sternritter with black and white colored hair who has the epithet \"Q\" for which plays on her power to force people to divulge their abilities when asked. Berenice fights Kenpachi Zaraki alongside Jerome Guizbatt and Loyd Lloyd. Kenpachi explained that she was a very arrogant woman who had something against him and explained her power to a great length, though Kenpachi admitted that he could not hear her too well due to Jerome's roaring ability. Annoyed, Kenpachi carves out Berenice's throat, killing her.\n\n is a large dark-skinned male Sternritter with an ape-like appearance who has the epithet \"R\" for as he assumes an ape-like form to dramatically amplify his voice to create a devastating sound-based shockwave. This ability proved to be no match for Kenpachi as he easily cuts Jerome in half and carried his corpse atop his sword.\n\n is a large male Sternritter who has the epithet \"S\" for , as his strength increases when he is applauded by his assistant, James. Mask also wears a Luchador Mask and arrogantly strikes warrior poses, wishing that he had an audience to see his battles while seeing himself as a hero. After Äs Nödt defeats Byakuya, Mask De Masculine knocks Renji unconscious as he was about to activate his bankai, causing Äs Nödt to scold him. In his second attack, he is accompanied by James who carries a boxing ring bell with him and makes it look like the fights Mask engages in are wrestling matches. Mask easily defeats Ikkaku, Yumichika, and Hisagi. He then claims he took down all the \"Captain\" level classes around him until he sees Rukia and Renji fall from the sky. He is intercepted by Kensei and Rose, the former of whom unleashes his bankai to knock out Mask. However, James encourages Mask to get back up and fight, activating his special ability and enabling Mask to knock out Kensei with ease. He then proceeds to destroy his own eardrums to negate Rose's bankai's special ability, and then blasts a hole through Rose's chest. Before he can kill Rose, Renji intervenes the attack and engages in battle with him. Renji manages to block all of Mask's attacks and also slices James to pieces before slashing Mask. However, as he can be revived by Mask, James's remains regenerate into numerous clones whose cheering causes Mask to activate his Vollständig. Mask manages to overwhelm Renji before being defeated and then incinerated by the Soul Reaper's perfected Bankai. Because of Mask's nature as a Quincy, James was recreated after Yhwach absorbed the deceased Mask's powers.\n\n is a female Sternritter who has the epithet \"T\" for , which allows her to fire lightning bolts. She is quick to anger, as shown when she threatens her fellow Sternritter, Giselle, after the latter teases her. When she and the other female Sternritters attack Kenpachi in his weakened state after he defeated Gremmy, Candice takes out some Soul Reaper reinforcements before helping Meninas in attacking the Soul Reaper captain. When Ichigo arrives and throws Candice into a building, she takes the matters personally and resolves to kill him by activating her Vollständig to unleash her Electrocution attack. However, she is wounded by her opponent's Getsuga Jūjishō and has Giselle regenerate her severed arm. Candice is attacked by Bazz-B as she was about to resume her fight with Ichigo. However, before they can proceed with their intent, Candice and other Sternritter are stopped by several members of Gotei 13. She is shortly defeated by Byakuya, along with NaNaNa Najakoop and Robert Accutrone. She later has both her power and Vollständig stripped as well and left knocked out unconscious.\n\n is a male member of the Sternritter who has the epithet \"U\" for , which allows him to determine his opponent's spiritual power distribution and produce a U-shaped \"Morphine Pattern\" marking on the opponent to create a weak point that he would capitalize on. During the first invasion, he engages Rose in combat before interfering in Yamamoto's battle with a disguised Royd Lloyd, barely surviving the Head Captain's Ryujin Jakka. After Renji defeats Mask de Masculine, NaNaNa spies on him while he is resting, surprised that he left himself exposed for so long and saying that his luck has run out. Later, NaNaNa is present when Bazz-B interrupts Ichigo's fight with Candice, eager to take Ichigo's head himself. He is stopped by several members of Gotei 13 and engages them in a fight instead. He is later shown to have been swiftly defeated by Byakuya. NaNaNa, alongside other surviving Sternritters, has his power forcibly extracted to empower Yhwach's four elite Sternritters. He analyzes the newly freed Aizen upon the latter's declaration to destroy the Royal Realm and tries to battle the Soul Reapers, but is shot down by Bazz-B before he can do anything.\n\n is a male member of the Sternritter who has the epithet \"V\" for , the ability to turn fantasy into reality. Because of this power, Gremmy is considered the strongest of the Sternritter and feared by even his allies. Originally being a disembodied brain in a dome casing, Gremmy used his ability to create a body for himself. During the second Wandenreich's invasion, Gremmy creates a stand-in named , whose \"V\" epithet stands for the in terms of his ability to make his own shape and existence disappear at will, disappearing from both a person's sight and memory. After Guenael appears before a hiding Isane and Yachiru, with the latter forgetting him after she punched him in the face, Gremmy kills off his creation while revealing to the two Soul Reapers it was a distraction so he could kill Rose and Kensei. Gremmy almost killed Yachiru when Kenpachi arrives. Intending to kill the Soul Reaper captain with the power of his imagination, Gremmy engages Kenpachi in battle. Eventually, with Kenpachi using his own power against him by displaying his own, a furious Gremmy builds up his muscle strength in a desperate effort to defeat Kenpachi. But it results in Gremmy's death as his body breaks apart due to it not being able to handle the increased muscle mass. As Gremmy dies, he leaves behind his true form – a brain in a jar.\n\n is a male Sternritter who has the epithet \"W\" for , the ability to push away any attacks that he has seen and allows him to move around uninhibited. Having a habit of not completing his sentences, Nianzol has shaggy black hair and a rather inhuman appearance with two tongues sticking from his mouth. Nianzol accompanies Yhwach, Haschwalth, and Ishida during their raid of the Soul King Palace, acting as Yhwach's \"shadow\" to protect him from the Royal Guards before revealing himself. However, defeating most of Senjumaru Shutara's guards, Nianzol finds that she altered his trenchcoat and dies of impalement by the article of clothing during his attempt to quickly take it off.\n\n is a dark-skinned and somewhat arrogant Sternritter with a crosshair-like mark over his closed left eye and has the epithet \"X\" for . This power makes him a dangerous figure as the Heilig Pfeil shot from his rifle Diagram is strong enough to pierce captain-ranked Soul Reapers and devastate areas with no means of blocking the blast, even more when he uses both eyes to use his full power while intangible. As lead member of the Schutzstaffel, and the first of the Wandenreich to receive his unique power, Lille was hidden away in his leader's shadow until summoned to fight the Royal Guard. After Gerard and Pernida take out Senjumaru Shutara's guards, telling her the Royal Guard lost the moment Yhwach arrived, Lille proceeds to kill what he later learned was a decoy in Shutara's image as the Royal Guard spring their trap and is easily killed by Ōetsu Nimaiya. When Yhwach activates his Auswählen, Lille is revived alongside the other elite guards and severely wounds Ōetsu with his rifle. Lille is then given orders to kill any intruders in the altered Royal Realm, using his power to snipe down any Soul Reaper within his sight. As he tries to snipe down Shunsui, the Soul Reaper Head-Captain engages him in a fight that forces Lille to fight at full power while using his Vollständig, to even the odds with Shunsui's attempt to kill him with his Bankai allowing him to assume a divine centaur-like form. This forces Shunsui to give Nanao use of Shinken Hakkyōken, helping use the ability of her \"Zanpakutō\" to redirect Lille's strongest attack back on him. Severely injured, Lille falls down to the Seireitei, scattering into multiple, long necked flamingo bird headed like pieces of his Vollständig, and proceeds to destroy the Seireitei, only to be confronted by a revived Izuru Kira. It is most likely possible that he was killed by Yhwach's Auswählen and stripped of his power, along with the rest of his weakened clones.\n\n is a bald Quincy with a third eye on his forehead who has an identical twin brother named . Their identical appearance is the result of their ability to imitate others as they have subconsciously used it on each other before being born. The two joined the Wandenreich under the same epithet \"Y\" for that plays on their shape-shifting powers. However, while both can assume the forms of others, only Loyd could replicate one's powers and techniques while Royd instead copy his target's memories and personality.\n\nDuring the attack on the Soul Society, as Loyd died fighting Kenpachi Zaraki after assuming his form for a duel, Royd posed as Yhwach and defeated Kenpachi before distracting Yamamoto while the real Yhwach was meeting Aizen. Once fulfilling his role in weakening Yamamoto for him while receiving mortal wounds, Royd is killed off by Yhwach.\n\n is an androgynous Sternritter who has the epithet \"Z\" for , the ability to turn living beings touched by her blood into corpse-like slaves, depending on the afflicted's spiritual pressure, restore severed limbs, or heal herself by drinking her zombies' blood. During the Wandenreich's second invasion, Giselle, alongside Candice, Liltotto, and Meninas kill off Bambietta after her defeat by Komamura, stating that she would not like seeing their side lose Bambietta as she converts her deceased comrade into her personal zombie enforcer. After she and the female Sternritters attack Kenpachi in his weakened state, Giselle goads several Soul Reaper reinforcements into cutting her so they would kill themselves at her command. However, after Yumichika sees through both Giselle's method of attack and accused of being a man posing as a woman, Giselle summons the zombified Bambietta to have her kill Yumichika and Ikkaku. But Giselle ends up facing Mayuri as her zombified Soul Reapers face the Soul Reaper captain's personal army of revived Arrancars. Once Bambietta is defeated by Charlotte Chuhlhourne, Giselle reveals she used her ability to place Hitsugaya, Rangiku, Rose, and Kensei under her control. However, after studying Giselle's power, Mayuri devised a serum to alter the blood in zombified Soul Reapers and make them into his personal servants before having Kensei stab her. She is shown to have survived the ordeal by drinking Bambietta's blood and has her power extracted by Yhwach's Auswählen. Hurt by Yhwach's betrayal, Giselle joins forces with Bazz-B to ally themselves with the Soul Reapers in entering the Royal Realm to kill their former master. Though she and Liltotto reach Yhwach, they were overpowered and defeated.\n\n is Sternritter assigned with the Greek letter Sigma, whose ability to absorb surrounding Reishi with his regenerative power renders him virtually unable to be killed. Shaz was originally one of Gremmy's imagined constructs before he used Sigma, previously known as , to give himself a true body and freedom from Gremmy's influence. Following Head Captain Yamamoto's death, Shaz stands among the ruins of the SRDI, having already killed a number of scientists and thrown three knives into Akon's back, just as the latter manages to free Ichigo Kurosaki from the Garganta. Spotting Ichigo, whom he does not recognize, Shaz introduces himself as one of the Sternritters and ends up being attacked while attempting explain his special ability.\n\nAs revealed in the \"13 Blades\" side story, after escaping the Soul Society, Shaz participated in the Wandenreich's second invasion of the Seireitei with the intention to learn the method of creating his own Hōgyoku before being ultimately defeated by Izuru Kira.\n\nSoul Reapers are the protectors of souls, granting them access to Soul Society and keeping them safe from hollows. Many of the protagonists introduced in the series are Soul Reapers, either in profession, origin, or abilities. Each Soul Reaper possesses a zanpakutō, a sword that doubles as both a weapon and a physical manifestation of the owner's soul. Each zanpakutō has its own personality, which is at times at odds with its owner's. Though Soul Reapers make up the bulk of the characters from Soul Society that have been introduced in the series, a far greater number of souls occupy its outskirts.\n\n is a convenience store that predominantly deals in snacks and small household goods. It also caters to a more select crowd of spiritually aware beings, providing them with merchandise it has acquired from Soul Society. Three of its regulars (owner Kisuke Urahara, Yoruichi Shihōin, and Tessai Tsukabishi) are former high-ranking Soul Reapers that are now fugitives of Soul Society.\n\n is the owner of the Urahara Shop, whose habit of wearing traditional Japanese wooden sandals and a bucket hat earned him the nickname . Kisuke is usually quite laid-back and has a jovial if not comical attitude, tendencies that tend to drive away customers. Despite his odd work ethic and personality, Kisuke is a keen intellectual with an inventive streak and an uncanny ability to discern an opponent's weaknesses and attack patterns with ease. Kisuke also leaves his store unattended for long periods of time, like when he trained Ichigo Kurosaki and his friends in the store's cave-like basement.\n\nKisuke is eventually revealed to be actually the former Captain of Squad 12 after being promoted from his 3rd seat in Squad 2. He also founded the Shinigami Research and Development Institute. A century ago, Kisuke caught Sōsuke Aizen in the act of converting Hiyori and their fellow Soul Reapers into Hollows. Though Kisuke managed to save them by turning them into Vizards, learning that Aizen was after the he developed, Kisuke is forced to leave the Soul Society when framed for the crime and go into hiding in the World of the Living. Though he attempted to dispose of the Hōgyoku in the \"gigai\" he developed for Rukia, Aizen obtained the sphere. Later aiding the Soul Society in their battle against Aizen by creating a Fake Karakura Town, Kisuke engages Aizen in battle and is initially defeated. However, though defeated, Kisuke placed a special \"kidō\" seal on Aizen that activated after the Hōgyoku rejected Aizen as its master.\n\nAs a former captain, he is also adept in using high-level \"kidō\" and uses a sharp tactical style of combat. His \"zanpakutō\" is a shikomizue named . In this form it has three known special abilities: it can create a polygonal \"blood mist shield\" capable of blocking most attacks, a crimson-colored energy blast which is similar to a \"cero\", and an explosion that combines volatile energy with a net. Benihime's \"bankai\" is , which takes the form of a giant doll-like woman that appears kneeling behind Urahara. According to Urahara, those afflicted having seams appear on them, his Bankai has the power to restructure anything it touches and can repair, rip, or optimize a person affected by the Bankai. Its powers were vaguely hinted towards when Urahara was asked to use it to help train Sado, with Urahara stating that his bankai is not fit for such a purpose. Aizen has commented on Urahara's ability, calling him the only man whose intellect exceeds his own. Kubo has commented on Urahara, saying he is based on Snufkin, whom he thought was cool.\n\nHe is voiced by Shinichiro Miki in the Japanese anime and by Michael Lindsay in the English dub until episode 214 where the role was recast to Doug Erholtz starting from episodes 231. He is played by Seiichi Tanabe in the live action movie.\n\n is an old friend of Urahara Shop owner Kisuke Urahara, and so uses it as a place of residence when she is not abroad. She is a slim, dark-skinned woman with deep-violet hair. She can also transform into a black cat and back at will (much to Ichigo Kurosaki's displeasure as she would tease him whenever she appeared naked before him after transforming). Her cat form gives her a deep voice, which leads many characters to initially believe she is a male and thus call her \"Mr. Yoruichi\". Yoruichi is very easy-going and she insists that Suì-Fēng avoid formalities when speaking to her. She tends to avoid combat and will not engage her enemies unless her allies will lose without her intervention. When first introduced, she helps Ichigo and his friends infiltrate Soul Society. As the series progress, it is revealed that Yoruichi is a former captain of the 2nd Division, head of the noble Shihōin clan, and was the Commander in Chief of the Secret Mobile Corps. Therefore, she is highly knowledgeable in Soul Society's history due to her background as a leader of one of the four highest ranking noble families. According to a citation from Kisuke Urahara when he explained to Hiyori Sarugaki, any squad captain in the Gotei 13 who has had the Secret Mobile Corps under his or her control (usually 2nd Squad) will be a formidable military force in Soul Society. As Yoruichi was the leader of the Secret Mobile Corps and also a squad captain herself during the pendulum period and also a leader of a high ranking noble house, it has made her position in the Soul Society as one of the most intimidating and respected. A century before the start of the series she abandoned all of her military and noble house positions by helping Urahara, Tessai Tsukabishi, and the Vizards escape to the human world. Series creator Tite Kubo identifies Yoruichi as one of his two favorite female characters in the series (along with Rangiku Matsumoto), citing that he \"has a lot of fun drawing her and creating stories with her.\"\n\nYoruichi has lived up to her former position as a captain and Commander in Chief of the Secret Mobile Corps due to her prowess throughout the series including when she immobilized Espada Yammy Riyalgo bare-handed. While she is very skilled in all Soul Reaper tactical combat, Yoruichi has always been presented in the series as extremely powerful in hand-to-hand combat and the use of , a high-speed movement ability. While the ability is common for any competent Soul Reaper, her speed movement is almost unmatched, leading her to be called the . Even after a century later, Byakuya Kuchiki is still unable to surpass her speed. Yoruichi is also highly skilled in , which is an advanced technique that combines hand-to-hand combat and \"kidō\" abilities. The use of shunko allows the user to fight bare-handed against any opponent's weapons without being injured. She has never been seen wielding a \"zanpakutō\" in the current or gaiden storyline, though is shown carrying a kodachi-like blade during flashbacks. She has also been shown using gauntlets and sabatons during her latest fight against Aizen, though these have been destroyed since then. Despite the fact that she is no longer the Captain of the Second Division, she does retain and use the uniform she wore at the time, which is unique for its absence of any clothing over the back or shoulders. It is explained that this is due to Yoruichi's mastery of Shunkō, which when utilized, destroys the fabric on the back and shoulders of the one using the technique. To date, only Yoruichi and Suì-Fēng have been shown to actively wear this particular uniform.\n\nShe is voiced by Satsuki Yukino in the Japanese anime and by Wendee Lee in the English dub. Her cat form is voiced by Shirō Saitō in the Japanese anime and by Terrence Stone in the English dub.\n\n is Urahara's personal assistant in both business and other matters. He is a large, muscular man with a thick mustache who is always seen wearing an apron. He is shown to have great physical strength, made apparent by his ability to smash a hollow's head to pieces with a single, open-palmed thrust. During the \"Turn Back the Pendulum\" miniseries, it is revealed that he was the captain of the Kidō Corps in Soul Society. As a result, Tessai is extremely skilled in \"kidō\", demonstrated by his ability to use a level 99 binding spell while skipping its incantation. He has not been shown to carry a \"zanpakutō\", but he did carry a shakujo during his time in Soul Society. For using forbidden \"kidō\" spells in aiding Kisuke Urahara in his attempts to help the visoreds, Tessai was sentenced to imprisonment by the Central 46 and was forced to flee to the human world.\n\nKiyoyuki Yanada is his Japanese voice actor and Michael Sorich his English voice actor. Tessai was surpassed by Hachien Ushōda\n\n is a small, red-haired boy who is supposed to do manual labor for the shop, such as cleaning. Instead he usually slacks off and forces Ururu to do all the work. Though he frequently bullies her, he does care for Ururu as he recovers her body after she is injured by an arrancar. Though he is more knowledgeable than one might expect given his young appearance, he is still childish, calling Renji Abarai a , and he enjoyed teasing, spitting, and drooling on Ichigo when his Chain of Fate was severed and Ichigo was becoming a hollow in an incapacitated state. Jinta seems to have a crush on Yuzu Kurosaki, calling her \"The Goddess\" and regarding anything she gives to him as sacred. His primary weapon is an oversized iron rod, similar to a Tetsubo, which he can use to attack.\n\nHe is voiced by Takako Honda in the Japanese anime and by Cindy Robinson in the English dub, Benjamin Diskin later voicing Jinta after the time skip.\n\n is a meek, black-haired girl with pigtails and purplish-blue eyes who mostly does manual labor for the shop. She is 3 years older than Jinta. She uses a multi-barreled shoulder cannon as her weapon, which can turn into a rocket launcher to deal with powerful opponents. Ururu's meek attitude is somewhat at odds with her fighting ability, which is undefined, but quite high (Urahara vaguely mentions that her fighting ability is at an \"anti-Soul Reaper\" level). Her punches and kicks have a lethal amount of force and far surpass what is capable of most characters. She seems to respond robotically when injured or when Hollows are nearby. During such times, Ururu seems to take on a rather simplistic view of right and wrong; she considers those that cause harm (relative to her) as enemies, and believes that enemies must be eliminated.\n\nShe is voiced by Noriko Shitaya in the Japanese anime and by Wendee Lee in the English version.\n\nThe are Soul Reapers who have obtained hollow powers via a process called . While Ichigo's Hollowification was initially stable and naturally occurred because of his lineage, Hollowfication was a method originally used by the Soul Society before the progress was deemed too great a risk as the resulting hybrids would be uncontrollable and eventually self-destruct in the final stages of a disease resulting from the soul's instability: . The group of Soul Reapers who became the Vizards were forcefully converted ages ago by Sōsuke Aizen as part of an experiment prior to them forced to flee the Soul Society. Unable to return to their original forms, the Vizards were saved from Soul Suicide by Urahara stabilizing them with a vaccine created from Quincy Heilig Pfeil and Human souls. To gain access to their hollow powers, a Vizard dons a hollow mask that augments their Soul Reaper abilities with access to some of the generic hollow abilities. The Vizards have not shown any sort of hierarchy, seeming to prefer a loose-knit organization. After Aizen's defeat, many of the Vizards are allowed to return to the Soul Society.\n\n is the de facto leader of the Vizards and a friend of Urahara's. Shinji's character is somewhat comical, adding a bit of levity to situations that are otherwise serious. He seems to like annoying his associate, Hiyori Sarugaki, which usually earns him a slap from one of her sandals. He also appears to have a history of referring to cute girls he meets as his 'first love', complete with a deadpan look on his face despite the obvious lie. In the past, Shinji was the previous captain of Squad Five, preceding his lieutenant Sōsuke Aizen. But Shinji's reasons for making Aizen his right hand were out of distrust from the first time they met and kept an eye on him. But Shinji realized too late that Aizen used his own distrust against him when he was among those afflicted with hollowification. In the storyline, Shinji aids Ichigo in taming his inner hollow, later leading the other Vizards against Aizen's forces. Though Shinji tells Yamamoto that they're only helping as friends of Ichigo's and as enemies of Aizen, he is eventually reinstated as Squad Five captain as he aids in the fight against the Wandenreich.\n\nShinji's \"zanpakutō\" is named . When released by Shinji's command \"collapse\", five holes line the blade's length, and a large ring forms at the bottom of the hilt. The blade releases a scent that inverts and reverses the enemy's visual perception. Shinji claims that it is impossible to comprehend the attack directions, as the more experienced one is, the more one relies on instinct to fight, causing one to inevitably fall prey to \"Sakanade\". After training more thoroughly with his \"zanpakutō\", Shinji is even able to invert the words he says, as well as make those more susceptible to the ability \"Sakanade\" very ill. Shinji is quite skilled with his hollow powers, using a single \"cero\" blast to easily overwhelm Grimmjow Jeagerjaques. His Hollow mask resembles a pharaoh's mask.\n\nHe is voiced by Masaya Onosaka in the Japanese anime and by Roger Craig Smith in the English version.\n\n is a former lieutenant of Squad Twelve under captains Kirio Hikifune and then Kisuke Urahara, initially refusing to accept the latter as she saw the former as a motherly figure. Hiyori is a small, blonde-haired girl with a short temper and violent tendencies that include death threats and physical violence. Hiyori often attacks Shinji Hirako, regardless of his outranking her in their pre-Vizard days, usually by slapping his face with one of her sandals or using him as a human shield when necessary. Hiyori took the longest to defeat her inner Hollow out of all the Vizards. During the battle with Aizen, Hiyori was mortally wounded yet was healed by Captain Unohana in the aftermath.\n\nHer Hollow mask is skeletal in appearance with a large horn on the forehead and diamond-shaped markings over the eyebrows. Her \"zanpakutō\" is named and is released with the command \"chop cleanly\" to become a large cleaver with a jagged edge.\n\nShe is voiced by Reiko Takagi in the Japanese anime, Mela Lee in earlier episodes of the English dub, and by Laura Bailey later on in the series.\n\n is the former captain of Squad 7. He is a tall man with a spiked afro (shaped like a normal round afro during his days as a Soul Reaper), and wears sporting sunglasses and a jogging suit. He seems to be very laid back, usually reading \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" or some of Lisa's erotic manga in his spare time. Love's hollow mask is designed after a traditional Japanese Oni mask. Love is later shown to be quite physically strong, being able to rip a Menos Grande in half with his bare hands. Love's \"zanpakutō\" is named . His \"shikai\" transforms it into a large kanabō reminiscent of a black cactus, twice the size of Love. \"Tengumaru\" has the ability to project fire from its tip.\n\nHe is voiced by Tetsu Inada in the Japanese anime and by Travis Willingham in the English dub.\n\n is the previous captain of Squad Nine, bearing a 69 tattoo on his stomach that influenced Shūhei Hisagi to have one on his cheek after saving him when he was younger, and piercing on his left eyebrow. One of the first to be turned into a Vizard, Kensei's hollow mask takes on the form of what appears to be a hockey mask, with a flat surface, and six slits running down the front. In comparison with his fellow Vizards, Kensei is a much more serious character. He has a short temper and is easily irritated, particularly by Mashiro. After the events of the Fake Karakura Town battle, Kensei is reinstated as a Soul Reaper Captain. However, during the Wandenreich invasion while his wounds are tended to by Isane after his ordeal against Mask De Masculine, Kensei is \"murdered\" by Gremmy Thoumeaux and brought back as a zombie by Giselle Gewelle before Mayuri Kurosutchi usurps control over Kensei to have resume defending the Soul Society. Ten years after Yhwach's defeat, he is shown to have returned to normal.\n\nKensei's \"zanpakutō\" is named and is released with the command \"Blow\". His \"shikai\" shrinks it down into the form of a survival/combat knife. While in this form, Kensei demonstrates the ability to charge and fire spiritual energy from the blade. Tachikaze can also manipulate wind, as demonstrated when Kensei uses several wind blades to slice up a hollow, killing it instantly. Kensei's bankai is named . The combat knife transforms into two bladed, bronze knuckle-like weapons known as tiger claws in each hand that are connected by a long fabric-like material that wraps around and up his arms like bandages and form a small arc above his head. Kensei's \"bankai\" focuses all of the destructive power into the knuckles, causing whatever the knuckles are touching to be hit continuously with implosive power.\n\nHe is voiced by Tomokazu Sugita in the Japanese anime and by Dave Mallow in the English dub.\n\n is Kensei's former lieutenant in Squad Nine. She is a somewhat carefree-crazy girl who is prone to throwing fits for the smallest of things, such as Orihime befriending Hachi or when Kensei insisted on following his subordinates into battle. Her overall style of dress is reminiscent of the costumes worn by the tokusatsu superheroes of late 1970s Japanese television, particularly those of the Kamen Rider Series. Even her attacks are announced like a Tokusatsu superhero. She often calls Ichigo \"Berry-tan\" (or \"Berry Boy\" in the English manga, and \"Carrot Top\" in the anime), a pun on Ichigo's name (\"ichigo\" in Japanese also means \"strawberry\"). Unlike the other Vizards and Ichigo who have to undergo a type of training to control their hollows, Mashiro was able to maintain her hollow mask for fifteen hours on her first attempt to control her hollow. Mashiro's hollow power gives her exceptional physical strength as she easily decapitated several Menos Grande and the giant hollow which was brought by Wonderweiss Margera and subsequently engaged in battle with him. However, in the mid-battle with Wonderweiss Margera her mask shatters well before her time limit was up causing Kensei to intervene. Her mask resembles a grasshopper's head, another reference to \"Kamen Rider\". Mashiro loves to engage in battle by combining her physical strength and hollow power rather than using her \"zanpakutō\", the name of which is still unknown.\n\nShe is voiced by Akemi Kanda in the Japanese anime and by Laura Bailey in the English dub.\n\n, commonly referred to as , is previous captain of Squad Three prior to Kisuke's promotion to Captain. He is an effeminate man with long, wavy, blond hair and a bird's beak-like Hollow mask. He seems to be interested in music, as he speaks to Love about an artist's new single and has been seen playing or tuning a guitar on several occasions. Rose appears to be one of the calmer and perhaps wiser ones amongst the group, though he becomes irritated whenever Love spoils a manga's story for him. After the events at the Fake Karakura Town, Rose is allowed to return to Soul Society and restored to his captain status. But during the Wandenreich invasion, after being saved from Mask De Masculine by Renji and taken to be cared for by Isane, Rose is \"murdered\" by Gremmy Thoumeaux and then brought back as a zombie by Giselle Gewelle. Later, Mayuri Kurotsuchi takes him over and uses him to defend Soul Society. Ten years after Yhwach's defeat, he is shown to have returned to normal.\n\nRose's \"zanpakutō\" is named . His \"shikai\" transforms the blade into a long, plantlike whip with a flower at its tip. Prefaced as , Kinshara's technique, , causes this tip to discharge an explosion of energy. Kinshara's \"bankai\", , summons several figures called the \"Dancers of Death\". His \"bankai\" allows Rose to use music to create the illusion of physical pain (burning, drowning, etc.) as long as his opponents hear the music. But \"bankai\" is useless against opponents who are deaf or who deafen themselves.\n\nHe is voiced by Shouto Kashii in the Japanese anime and by Christopher Corey Smith in the English dub.\n\n, commonly referred to as , is the physically largest Vizard. He had been the of the Kidō Corps under Tessai Tsukabishi. He specializes in \"kidō\", and as such is always tasked with making barriers for the Vizards' use. He is skilled enough to use \"bakudō\" up to 99 without reciting their incantations. By his own admission, his powers are very similar to those of Orihime Inoue's. Despite his unusual size, Hachi is actually very kind and gentle, and seems to enjoy Orihime's company. His mask resembles a Native American tribe mask. He has been seen with a \"zanpakutō\" during Ichigo's training when the young man went berserk, he helped restrain him while also brandishing the blade at him. Later during the battle at Karakura Town, he encased it in his barrier right before confronting a horde of Gillian, however, it is uncertain what its powers are or if it is even a \"zanpakutō\" at all. He aids in Suì-Fēng's battle against Barragan and manages to ultimately defeat the Espada at the cost of his forearm.\n\nHe is voiced by Takashi Nagasako in the Japanese anime and by Joe Ochman in the English dub.\n\n used to be Shunsui Kyōraku's lieutenant in Squad Eight, having spied on the captain's meetings and read to her successor Nanao Ise on a monthly basis; she is later allowed to return to Soul Society after the Wandenreich's invasion and is promoted to captain of Squad Eight, the seat of which has been vacant since Shunsui's promotion to captain-commander status. She is a girl with glasses and long, braided, dark hair, who dresses in a seifuku, as opposed to the more Western-style uniforms worn by the female students of Karakura High School. She seems easily irritated and apparently likes to read erotic manga. In the English translations, it has been edited to \"swimsuit magazines\". Her mask resembles a knight's helmet, with a cross shape opening on it. Her \"zanpakutō\" is called . In its \"shikai\" form, it becomes a large guan dao or monk's spade with a fanned blade and large orb on the opposite end.\n\nShe is voiced by Kanako Hatori in the Japanese anime and by Tara Platt in the English dub.\n\n, or Mod-Souls for short, are a variation of the created by Kirio Hikifune that Soul Reapers use as stand-ins while using vessels to move about in the World of the Living. Unlike Gikon, given personalities and unique powers of their own, Mod-Souls are produced in the Soul Society's to assist in the combat against Hollows by reanimating corpses. However, this act was deemed immoral and Project Spearhead was disbanded with all Mod-Souls seemingly deposed of.\n\nWith Kon one of the surviving Mod-Souls, four other Mod-Souls have been introduced in the anime series. Like Kon, three Mod-Souls created by Kisuke typically inhabits a plushie with all of their abilities intact (albeit scaled down to fit their size). But all four anime-exclusive Mod-Souls possess their own personal gigai they can use to avoid attention with complete use of their abilities.\n\n is the first Mod-Soul to appear in \"Bleach\", designated an model with strong leg strength. By chance, Kon ended up living with Ichigo when he was placed in a container of Gikon that Rukia bought for Ichigo to use. Kon primarily serves as a comedic foil in the series, receiving little respect and much disdain from other characters. He is not completely undeserving of this treatment as he is highly perverted in nature; he is drawn to girls with big breasts (and displays attraction towards Rukia despite her lack thereof, but more because he believes she saved his life) and, when inhabiting another's body, spends his time trying to look up skirts since \"it will not be [his] reputation that gets sullied\". However, from the beginning he displayed a much more serious side to himself, believing that life should not be taken on purpose after he witnessed the destruction of other Mod-Souls. Kon's area of expertise are his legs, and thus he can run faster and jump higher than any human, even in his plush form. He typically inhabits a lion plushie that he is very fond of, referring to it as his \"sexy body\". Kon also inhabits Ichigo Kurosaki's body whenever he is away, playing the part of Ichigo so that his family does not miss him. Although Kon makes only sporadic appearances in the \"Bleach\" storyline, he frequently hosts and/or stars in omake specials for the series including his talk show Radio Kon Baby, self-proclaiming himself the series' mascot.?\n\nHe is voiced by Mitsuaki Madono in the Japanese anime and by Quinton Flynn in the English dub.\n\n is a somewhat cowardly Mod-Soul. He has the ability to shapeshift and can replicate the abilities of others when he does so (although he can not replicate the potency of said abilities). His plushie body is a rabbit-like purse. Kurōdo's \"gigai\" is of a bespectacled man with a mustache and two-tone hair color (black to the left, blonde to the right). He wears a gray top hat, multi-colored suit, and tie, as well as dark brown boots. He is often told he talks too much.\n\nHe is voiced by Nobuo Tobita in the Japanese anime and by Michael McConnohie in the English dub.\n\n is very quiet, rarely speaking more than a few words. He is fairly shy, hiding his face when he wishes to show no emotion. Despite this, he is somewhat analytical and adept at strategic combat. Noba has the power to teleport himself and others to almost any location he has been to, using inter-dimensional portals. The dimension inside the portals appears to be red. He can also create wormholes to redirect ranged attacks, both physical and energy-based, back at the enemy. Noba's plushie body is an anthropomorphic turtle in gray dress trousers and a white ruffled shirt with a red bow tie. He retreats into his shell when embarrassed or feeling shy. His \"gigai\" is of a young slim built, red-haired man with aqua eyes wearing a ninja-esque outfit: a fur coat with a shield on his back and a zippered mask.\n\nHe is voiced by Tomokazu Sugita in the Japanese anime and by Roger Craig Smith in the English dub.\n\n acts as the leader of the Mod-Souls introduced in the Bount arc. At times she is petty and arrogant, resulting in her initial dislike of Ichigo Kurosaki. She can sense Bount reishi, along with their dolls. Other times she shows real concern for others, eventually developing a fondness for Ichigo where she will put herself in harm's way to protect him. She often looks down on Kon as inferior, which causes frequent arguments between the two. Her special ability is the creation of illusions. Lirin's plushie body is an anthropomorphic bird that wears a blue coat, red bow, and blue boots. She does not like the plushie at all and claims that she cannot change to another. Lirin's \"gigai\" is a small girl with short blonde hair wearing a pink, fur-trimmed coat, a purple bird-shaped cape, and red boots. She, Kurōdo, and Noba all live at Urahara's shop while not in action.\n\nShe is voiced by Yumi Kakazu in the Japanese anime and by Julie Ann Taylor in the English dub.\n\n is a Mod-Soul who only appeared in the anime. Nozomi has escaped from Soul Society and is wanted by Kagerōza Inaba. She is actually the result of Project Spearhead, the experiment that created the first Mod-Soul in the image of its overseer Ōko Yushima. In truth, having a grudge against the Soul Society yet needing a stronger body to best use his power without residual side effects, Yushima transferred his consciousness into a Mod-Soul that he splintered into two to conceal his presence: One half becoming Nozomi who embodies Yushima's restraint and the other bearing his rage and personality that became Kagerōza. Ending up in Karakura Town while evading the Reigai, Mod-Soul based clones of Soul Reapers created by Kagerōza, Nozomi is found by Kon and befriends Ichigo and his friends as they protect her. In the process, having intending to destroy herself to keep Kagerōza from fulfilling his goal, she manages to open up and show off her exuberant personality while manifesting her own \"zanpakutō\" which can absorb spirit pressure in its released state. Eventually, Nozomi is captured and Kagerōza proceeds to use his lab equipment to absorb her and assume his true form as Yushima. However, Nozomi's conscious is able to endure and fight Yushima as he battles her friends. Though she managed to separate from him, Nozomi dies from the internal wounds she inflicted on Yushima while she was still a part of him.\n\nShe is voiced by Hisako Kanemoto in the Japanese anime and by Julie Ann Taylor in the English dub.\n\n\nThe Shiba Clan are Isshin's family who are based in the Soul Society as its fifth noble family with prestige compared to the Kuchiki and Shihōin families. But after the death of Kaien Shiba, the Shiba Clan fell from their high-status position prior to the events of the series and make a living as fireworks specialists in the outskirts of the Soul Society.\n\n is a fireworks expert, the younger sister of Kaien and the older sister of Ganju. She lives with her family in themed houses (which she changes in design and location regularly) on the outskirts of Soul Society. For some unknown reason, Kūkaku is missing her right arm which in the anime is replaced with a prosthetic. Kūkaku is the head of the Shiba family after Kaien died. Because they knew only that Kaien was killed by a Soul Reaper, both Kūkaku and Ganju are distrustful of Soul Reapers when first introduced. After Kaien's killer Rukia Kuchiki explains how he died and apologizes, the Shibas make amends. Kūkaku seems to have some kind of relationship with the Urahara Shop, knowing Yoruichi Shihōin and claiming to have worked with Kisuke Urahara in the past. She can perform high level \"kidō\" spells, and carries a kodachi tied around the remaining portion of her right arm. Kūkaku's firework cannon is capable of breaching through high concentrations of reiatsu, which is used by Ichigo's group to cross over to Seireitei and much later to transport Ichigo and the Royal Guards toward the Royal Palace, is one of the few ways to do so. She mentions having to let Ichigo enter the Royal Palace even if it saddens \"uncle\" before commanding her brother to train with the deceased Xcution members in preparation for the Wandenreich's second invasion.\n\nShe is voiced by Akiko Hiramatsu in the Japanese anime and by Cindy Robinson in the English dub.\n\n is Kaien and Kūkaku's younger brother. He is the leader of a gang, who all ride large boars. Incidentally, Ganju's boar, Bonnie-chan, met her end in a nabe which Ganju himself was invited to by 4th squad captain Unohana. Ganju possesses a hot temper and a strong ego, though has shown a softer side, easily being cowed by his older sister, Kūkaku. He and his sister initially hate Soul Reapers due to the death of their brother, Kaien, though after his interactions with Ichigo Kurosaki he overcomes this. Ganju is not particularly attractive, something that has become a running joke in the series. He has a dagger which resembles a meat cleaver or a Chinese Dadao, though his skills are limited and he instead relies on his arsenal of fireworks and his earth magic. Ganju's earth magic does not seem to operate on the same principles as standard Soul Reaper \"kidō\" spells; the one technique he uses can reduce whatever earth it is aimed to sand or quicksand, useful when making holes in walls to escape pursuers. Ganju participates with Ichigo's group in entering Seireitei with the intent to confront his brother's killer, Rukia, though he eventually forgives her, and during the Wandenreich's attack on Soul Society also participates with Ichigo, Orihime, Chad, and Yoruichi to face Yhwach in the Royal Realm.\n\nHe is voiced by Wataru Takagi in the Japanese anime and by Kyle Hebert in the English dub.\n\n are a clan of humans who are descended from Yhwach. Spiritually aware because of Yhwach's blood running through them, the Quincies can reshape spiritual particles into various types of bow and arrows, swords or explosives. There are also Quincies that are born once every two centuries with same power as Yhwach himself. At their height, Quincies used their powers to combat the hollows to protect the land of the living with a greater success rate than the Soul Reapers. However, unlike the Soul Reapers who purify Hollows, Quincies completely destroy the soul and thus create an imbalance between the life and death that would threaten to destroy the world. As a last resort to prevent further imbalance, the Soul Reapers exterminated most of the Quincies with only a few traces remains allowed to live. As a result, having great animosity towards Soul Reapers, some Quincies marry into normal human families with their children becoming Impure Quincies while some Quincy families attempt to keep their bloodline pure. Tite Kubo created the Quincy as rivals to the Soul Reapers, resulting in long-range weapons as a counter to the standard Soul Reaper \"zanpakuto\" and white clothing as an antithesis to the black Soul Reaper uniform. Their name stems from their symbol, a five-pointed star, and the prefix \"quin,\" meaning \"five,\" as well as Kubo's liking for the phrase \"Quincy archer.\" Other than Uryū Ishida and the Wandenreich, there are some other Quincies who had survived the genocide.\n\n is Uryū's father who works as the Hospital Director of Karakura Hospital. Ryūken is portrayed as a bitter and cold Quincy who detests his own people though he is extremely powerful and possesses many of their people's lost or stolen artifacts (some of the new weapons that Ishida currently uses are \"borrowed\" from his father). It is revealed that he was meant to marry Masaki Kurosaki, a distant relative of his, to preserve the blood purity of the Quincy. However, his engagement fell through when Masaki underwent Hollowfication and Isshin Shiba tied his life with Masaki's in order to save it. Instead of Masaki, he married his family maid, Kanae Katagiri. Nine years before the main story, Kanae was subjected to the Auswählen and eventually died, impacting Ryūken and causing him to detest Quincy.\n\nHe is voiced by Ken Narita in the Japanese anime and by Michael McConnohie in the English dub.\n\n is the father of Ryūken and the grandfather of Uryū. He trained Uryū in Quincy abilities throughout his childhood, becoming his mentor in the process. Sōken tried to make amends with Soul Reapers by advocating a new system of response to Hollow attacks. His proposal was never accepted, and he was eventually killed in a Hollow attack due to his old age (with Mayuri Kurotsuchi being responsible for not sending Soul Reapers to save him).\n\nHe is voiced by Eiji Maruyama in the Japanese anime and by David Lodge in the English dub.\n\n is the wife of Ryūken Ishida and the mother of Uryū. She is of a mixed-blood heritage (\"Gemischt\") and originally worked as the maid of the Ishida family. She befriended Ryūken since they were children and eventually developed a crush on him, although she is aware that Ryūken must marry his distant relative, Masaki Kurosaki. After Ryūken's engagement with Masaki fell through, she comforted a weeping Ryūken and eventually married him, giving birth to Uryū. However, nine years before the main story, the Quincy progenitor, Yhwach initiated the Auswählen: the process to absorb the power of impure Quincy, which took the powers of both Kanae and Masaki. Kanae, who was already weak at the time, eventually died three months later.\n\nThe are the main weapons of Soul Reapers, conceived and invented by Ōetsu Nimaiya of Squad Zero. When first created, a nameless \"zanpakutō\" is initially known as an and is given to low-class Soul Reapers. Over time, from imprinting the owner's soul into it, the \"asauchi\" eventually transforms into the Soul Reaper's personal \"zanpakutō\". As a consequence, having been a formless entity prior, the spiritual embodiment of a \"zanpakutō\" gains a unique appearance. While each one's appearance is reflection of the owner's spirit pressure, \"zanpakutō\" spirits have an additional form during the \"bankai\" state of a \"zanpakutō\". Though they would test their owners' worth in using them, \"zanpakutō\" spirits exist to protect their wielder and would eventually cease to be if the Soul Reaper who owns them dies or uses a technique that would render the user powerless. There are few exceptions to the rule such as in the case of the Ise Clan's \"zanpakutō\" Shinken Hakkyōken, which can be passed down the generations as a family heirloom. During the Zanpakutō Rebellion and Beast Swords arc, the \"zanpakutō\" spirits were given a true presence by the power of the unique \"zanpakutō\" Muramasa. However, by the end of the Beast Swords arc, weeks after his death, Muramasa's power waned and the \"zanpakutō\" spirits return to their original states.\n\n, also called \"old man\" by Ichigo, is the manifestation of Ichigo's Quincy powers, who appears as a tall man with ragged black hair, facial hair, and sunglasses. This appearance is supposed to represent Yhwach, the first Quincy, in his younger days. Pretending to be Ichigo's actual Zanpakutō, Old Man Zangetsu aided Ichigo in achieving his potential as a Soul Reaper. However, while attempting to tame his Inner Hollow, Ichigo hears his opponent introducing himself as Zangetsu.\n\nThe reason for this is revealed when , a younger and more powerful version of Zangetsu that Ichigo encounters while in his Bankai state, reveals that he and Ichigo's Hollow are both halves of the same being that represents Ichigo's overall power. After he and Ichigo's Hollow assumed their true form, Tensa Zangetsu battles Ichigo to test his resolve in using the Final Getsuga Tenshō. Though Ichigo passed his test, Tensa Zangetsu reveals the consequences of the attack before bidding his owner farewell. Ichigo would learn that the Zangetsu he knew was actually the personification of his powers as a Quincy, therefore resembling a younger Yhwach. Confronted by Ichigo about this, confirming what the youth learned about him, Zangetsu reveals had kept Ichigo's full power as a Soul Reaper in check before deciding to unlock the youth's full potential in light of Yhwach's return. After Zangetsu is reforged, his essence resides in the smallest of the split blades in his Shikai state.\n\nZangetsu is voiced by Takayuki Sugō in the Japanese anime and by Richard Epcar in the English dub. Tensa Zangetsu is voiced by Showtaro Morikubo in the Japanese anime and by Keith Silverstein in the English version.\n\n\"Hollow Ichigo\" is the real Zangetsu and the true manifestation of Ichigo's Zanpakuto, the result of Ichigo's mother being infected by trace remains of the Hollow White that passed on into Ichigo and manifested when he became a Soul Reaper. In appearance, Hollow Ichigo is identical to his host save for his golden eyes, opposite colour scheme and permanent grin (as opposed to Ichigo's scowl). In Bankai form, Hollow Ichigo is a dead ringer of Ichigo's Hollow form save for inverted color scheme. Though a bloodthirsty berserker who would take any chance to take over Ichigo's body, Hollow Ichigo's nature as a \"zanpakutō\" compels him intervene during some of Ichigo's fights. After Zangetsu is reforged, his identity fully revealed, Hollow Ichigo's essence resides in the largest aspect of the split \"shikai\" state of his \"zanpakutō\".\n\nLike Ichigo Kurosaki, Hollow Ichigo is voiced by Masakazu Morita in the Japanese anime and by Johnny Yong Bosch in the English dub.\n\n is the \"Zanpakutō\" owned by Renji Abarai who appears as a Nue, first seen in the Soul Society arc when Renji was recovering from his first fight with Ichigo. In the anime exclusive Zanpakutō Rebellion arc, Zabimaru's form changes to that of a green fur woman and a young boy with a snake tail. Though the two are normally connected by a chain, with the child assuming their \"zanpakutō\" form for his older counterpart to wield, the two halves of Zabimaru act independent of each other when needed to.\n\nIn the Japanese anime, the original form of Zabimaru is voiced by Toru Furusawa, Saru by Mitsuki Saiga, and Hebi by Asami Sanada. In the English dub, while Vic Mignogna in English dub voiced Zabimaru's original form, Saru is voiced by Mary Elizabeth McGlynn while Hebi is voiced by Michelle Ruff in English dub.\n\n is the \"Zanpakutō\" owned by Tōshirō Hitsugaya, appearing as a dragon made of ice. Hyōrinmaru already tried to communicate with Hitsugaya before he became a Soul Reaper. During the anime-exclusive Zanpakutō Rebellion arc, Hyōrinmaru assumes the form of a tall young man with long-flowing green hair and dragon limbs.\n\nIn the second movie, \"The Diamonddust Rebellion\", it was revealed that Hitsugaya's friend Sōjirō Kusaka also possessed Hyōrinmaru. Though the two saw it as a sign of their friendship, the Central 46 members deemed such an event unacceptable with Kusaka seemingly put to death after he failed a test he and a reluctant Histugaya were put through over which of them can be recognized as the sole owner of Hyōrinmaru. But when Kusaka returns, having been brought back to life by the item, he uses the power of to transform into a parody of Hyōrinmaru before Ichigo forces Kusaka back to his Soul Reaper state so Hitsugaya can settle things with his friend.\n\nHyōrinmaru is voiced by Daisuke Matsuoka in the Japanese version of the second film, by Kenji Hamada in the Japanese anime, and by Travis Willingham in their English dubs.\n\n is a pair of \"Zanpakutō\" owned by Shunsui Kyōraku. Shunsui's \"Zanpakutō\", named simply , manifests as a tall, well-endowed violet-haired woman with an eyepatch, whom Shunsui affectionately calls . Katen physically appears when Shunsui unleashes his bankai, Shunsui, having explained that she only lets him use her full power when she is in the right mood due to her moody nature. When asked by his sister-in-law to conceal Shinken Hakkyōken, Shunsei has Katen create an offshoot of herself to hold the cursed Zanpakutō in her body. This offshoot assumes the form of a silent, young kunoichi that sees battle as a game, named and nicknamed by Shunsui as .\n\nWhile both Katen and Kyōkotsu make their initial debut in anime-exclusive Zanpakutō Rebellion arc, they appear in the final arc of the manga: Katen appearing when Shunsui uses his Bankai to fight Lille Barro, with Kyōkotsu appearing when Shunsui decides to give Nanao her family's \"Zanpakutō\" as a last resort to defeat Lille.\n\nKaten is voiced by Ayumi Fujimura in the Japanese anime, and by Erin Fitzgerald in the English dub.\n\n is a fallen god that is a vassal of the Soul King, specifically its animate right arm, appearing as a humanoid in the shape of an arm with one eye on his hand-like head. Mimihagi has long been forgotten by most in the Soul Society yet is revered in the outer areas of Eastern Rukongai for his ability to prolong a person's life by taking the afflicted portion of their body from them and giving the person the means to live through the ability to compensate for the irreversible side-effects. Such an example is Jūshirō Ukitake, whose lungs Mimihagi removed at his parents' behest. During the second invasion of the Wandenreich, Jūshirō activated Kamikake to offer his body to Mimihagi to revive the Soul King. Mimihagi accepts Jūshirō's sacrifice but is stopped from reviving the Soul King by Ywhach and is absorbed by the Quincy.\n\nSeveral types of merchandise have been produced based on the likeness of the \"Bleach\" characters. Apparels from them include replicas of the \"zanpakutō\", hollow masks as well as Soul Reapers clothes for cosplays. Other merchandise based on them include action-figures, plush, and key-chains. Characters are also featured on \"Bleach\" trading cards that have different abilities depending on the character appearing in the cards. In Japan, there have been released soundtracks in which the voice actors from the anime perform songs related to their characters. Most characters are also featured in video games from the series, with most of them being fighting games.\n\nThe characters from the series have received praise and criticism from several reviewers. Anime News Network noted them to be relatively stereotypical but with traits that make them look \"special\" noting the interactions they have as well as the large and variable cast of side characters. They were also praised for having energetic attitudes and distinctive ways of fighting. While they commented on Ichigo on being \"almost a typical anti-hero\", they mention that he is just a common person with a tragic past making him likable to the fans. They also praised Tite Kubo's artwork to give them good clothes and the anime staff for improving them. Mania Entertainment agreed with praising the artwork of the manga and noted that the \"characters have personalities and oddities all described in those designs\". They have also praised the development of the characters remarking how Renji, before being defeated by Ichigo, he asks him to save Rukia, while during his first appearances he was more violent and was meant to arrest her. IGN agreed and mentioned that the large number of plot happening within each character make the series more than \"example of shonen fighting manga\". However, the reviewer commented that it is hard to take the series seriously when one of the main Arrancar is named Grimmjow Jeagerjacquez. Wizard Universe also praised Ichigo as the best hero of 2007 commenting that the only reason why he is not like every \"shonen character\" is that he only wants to save his friends, not because he tries to act as a hero.\n\nIGN also added that while some fights were dragged for many chapters, they are easy to enjoy due to the abilities of the characters and the artwork from Kubo. In another review, comicbookbin said that \"Bleach\"'s characters tended to avoid the most obvious courses of action, giving the series an element of unpredictability. Tite Kubo has been praised by comicbookbin.com for creating a \"dense multi-layered narrative housing a mob of characters\". They remarked how each character from the series had two subplots making the reader hard to remember although that made them more complex. In a review from the volume 20, they noted how Kubo turned the fights into \"martial arts and epic fantasy serial\" comparing them with fights from famous movies like \"The Matrix\" and praised how well drawn they are. Anime News Network also added that the English voice acting of the characters is as good as the Japanese one, considering each of them very original.\n"}
{"id": "2257675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257675", "title": "Poechos Reservoir", "text": "Poechos Reservoir\n\nPoechos Reservoir is a middle-sized reservoir on Peru's Chira River in the border area between Peru and Ecuador.\nIts purpose is to improve the accumulation of water stocks in the upper part of Peru's Chira basin by flood control, irrigation, drainage and electricity generation.\n\nThe Poechos Reservoir is situated in the northernmost part of Peru, in the lower flow of the rivers Chira and Piura, about 50 km north of Piura, the capital of the Piura Region. \nIt is located on 4° 3' southern latitude and 80° 2' western longitude at an altitude of 98 m in the Lancones district of the province of Sullana, approximately 30 km from the border with Ecuador.\n\nThe system was built in support of agrarian reform and infrastructure policies led by the military dictatorship of Juan Velasco Alvarado. Construction was carried out in four phases, the first of which was constructed by Yugoslav contractor Energoprojekt and supervised by the Peruvian subsidiary of British company Binnie & Partners. Works started on 24 June 1972, with inauguration taking place on 4 June 1976.\n\nPhases of the project go as follow:\n\nThe first phase included the construction of \n\nThe second phase covered \n\nThe third phase consisted of \n\nThe final phase included \n\nThe capacity of the reservoir is 1,000,000,000 m, its catchment area 14,000 m, its maximum depth 46 m.\n\nThe irrigation dam is 49 m high and 9 km wide at crest and at its bottom has a conduit to discharge water at a rate of 4 m/s.\n\nThe original design brief was to revitalise the Piura valley, which was short of water, and provide modern irrigation for approximately 350 km of arable land.\n\nThe Poechos I Hydroelectric Plant is operated by Sindicato Energético S.A (SINERSA). The Poechos I power house has 15.4 MW in installed capacity and generates 60 GW·h annually for Electronoroeste, the concessionary for energy distribution in northwestern Peru. The power plant is to accomplish a 90% national electrification level of the country by the year 2010 by using a zero emission energy source.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257689", "title": "Armi Ratia", "text": "Armi Ratia\n\nArmi Maria Ratia née Airaksinen (13 July 1912 – 3 October 1979) was the founder of the Finnish textile and clothing company Marimekko Oy. She is among Finland's most famous female entrepreneurs. She was born in Pälkjärvi in Ladogan Karelia.\nFor a detailed biographical article in the context of her Marimekko company, see \"The National Biography of Finland\" entry. \nShe is buried in the Hietaniemi Cemetery in Helsinki.\n"}
{"id": "2257691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257691", "title": "Service provider interface", "text": "Service provider interface\n\nService Provider Interface (SPI) is an API intended to be implemented or extended by a third party. It can be used to enable framework extension and replaceable components.\n\nFrom Java documentation:\nThe concept can be extended to other platforms using the corresponding tools. In the Java Runtime Environment, SPIs are used in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257696", "title": "Hořovice Castle", "text": "Hořovice Castle\n\nHořovice New Chateau is a chateau located in the town of Hořovice, Bohemia, Czech Republic.\n\nIt was built in two parts. In the first half of the 19th century by Friedrich Wilhelm I of Hesse, following plans of the architect G. Engelhardt, a major rebuilding took place, adding another story to the building.\n\nIts final appearance is due to more refurbishings at the beginning of the 20th century, with the furniture of the rooms being carried out in late classicist style.\n\nIn the former kitchen of the castle the museum Music Without Musicians is situated. It focuses on mechanical music instruments.\n"}
{"id": "2257701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257701", "title": "Hovedøya", "text": "Hovedøya\n\nHovedøya is one of several small islands off the coast of Oslo, Norway in the Oslofjord. The island is quite small, no more than 800 metres across in any direction, the total area is 0,4 square kilometre. It is well known for its lush and green nature, with a wide variety of trees, bushes and flowers. For many, many years there was a military base on the island. \n\nThe name is from Norse times (\"Hǫfudøy\"). The first element is \"hǫfud\" 'head' (here in the sense 'hill' or 'height'), the last element is the finite form of \"øy\" 'island'. The name is a reference to the top of the hill on the island - at 47 metres it is the tallest point of the inner Oslofjord islands by a good margin. (See also Nakholmen.)\n\nThe Cistercian monastery, Hovedøya Abbey, was built on the island, and opened on 18 May 1147. During the Medieval period, the monastery was a leading economical force in the Oslo region. It was, however, closed down before the Reformation after the abbot came into conflict with King Christian II. The military official at Akershus Fortress had the abbot imprisoned and the monastery looted and burned down in 1532. Parts of the ruins of the monastery remain on the island, but much of the stonework was used in the expansion of Akershus Fortress in the 17th century.\n\nThe island has also been used for military installations, and former military buildings and artillery remain on the island. When Denmark-Norway became involved in the Napoleonic war, two cannon batteries were built to defend Oslo and Akershus Fortress in 1808 (again using the monastery ruins as a quarry). Four depots for gunpowder were built in 1826 on the high points of the island to ward off intruders, and a fifth was built in 1867. On the eastern half of the island is a Victorian house, popularly known as the \"Laboratory\". It was used by Director of Armory Ole Herman Johannes Krag, co-inventor of the Krag–Jørgensen rifle in the late 19th century.\n\nThere was once a large German camp on the island, with several barracks, which would later be turned into National Internment Camp for Women in Hovedøya. Today, only a single barracks from the camp remains, located near the ruins of the monastery.\n\nToday the island is a destination for tourists and bathers, who can enjoy the island's natural environment, pastures, historic buildings as well as fairly benign (for Norway) bathing temperatures.\n\nThe island has an interesting geology, being composed mainly of Ordovician and some Silurian mudstone and limestone. The transition between the two periods is exposed on the south-eastern tip of the island, illustrating the sudden marine transgression that marks the shift between two important parts of Earths history.\n\nCriss-crossing the island is ores of diabas from a major rift event in the Oslo area in the Permian. The diabas has been heavily quarried for building material, and the island can boast about 20 quarries from Medieval to 19th century age. The island has rock dating back to late Cambrian and the eastern parts is littered with erratic boulders deposited during the last Ice Age, thus the island illustrate well the local geological events spanning half a billion years.\n\nThe mostly sedimentary geology has given the island a very fertile soil, giving it Norways highest biodiversity found in such a small place. A few plant species found on the island do not occur anywhere else in Norway.\n\nDue to the geology and natural diversity, the island has been declared a natural preserve. While no part of the island is off limit to the public, collecting plants and taking rock-samples is banned.\n\nThe island is connected to Oslo by means of two boat routes (lines 92 and 93) which dock on the north side of the island. Service is year-round although it's only running during daylight and therefore is limited during the winter season. In summer time a small cafeteria right by the monastery ruins is open to the general public.\n\nThere is a fox living on the island that is often photographed by internet users and is known to occasionally steal things.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257703", "title": "Ninja Scroll: The Series", "text": "Ninja Scroll: The Series\n\nThe story takes place in feudal Japan and follows the adventures of Jubei Kibagami, a mercenary ninja who is given a duty to guard the Dragon Stone and to protect the Priestess of Light (Shigure) from the Hiruko Clan and the Kimon Shu. He is aided by the government spy Dakuan and the thief Tsubute.\n\n\n\n\n\nNinja Scroll is an original soundtrack to Japanese TV series of the same name, written and directed by Yoshiaki Kawajiri. Taking place in ancient Japan, \"Ninja Scroll\" is the story of a wandering Ninja warrior named Jubei. The music for the soundtrack is co-scored by Kitaro and Peter (Peas) McEvilley.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257707", "title": "Chris Air", "text": "Chris Air\n\nChris Air was a low-fares airline, based in Suceava, Romania which started up and ended in 2005. It was the first airline to fly internationally from Suceava. Its partner airline was Airday, based in Ancona, Italy.\n\nThe airline flew from Suceava Airport to the following destinations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257708", "title": "Thymelicus", "text": "Thymelicus\n\nThymelicus is a Palearctic genus in the skipper butterfly family, Hesperiidae. It is the only member of the tribe Thymelini, but many skipper butterflies are yet to be assigned to tribes, so this might change eventually.\n\n\n Fuller distribution\n"}
{"id": "2257709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257709", "title": "Goose Tatum", "text": "Goose Tatum\n\nReece \"Goose\" Tatum (May 31, 1921 – January 18, 1967) was an American Negro league baseball and basketball player. In 1942, he was signed to the Harlem Globetrotters and had an 11-year career with the team. He later formed his own team known as the Harlem Magicians with former Globetrotters player Marques Haynes. He is a member of the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame and the Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame. Tatum's number 50 is retired by the Globetrotters.\n\nReece \"Goose\" Tatum was born in El Dorado, Arkansas on May 31, 1921 to Ben and Alice Tatum. Ben Tatum was a farmer and part-time preacher. Alice Tatum was a domestic cook. Reece Tatum was the fifth of seven children. He attended Booker T. Washington High School in El Dorado, Arkansas, but it is unknown if he graduated. He was a three-sport star in baseball, basketball and football during high school.\n\nAfter high school, Tatum pursued a career in professional baseball and joined the Louisville Black Colonels in 1937. He played for the Memphis Red Sox and the Birmingham Black Barons in 1941 and 1942, respectively.\n\nHarlem Globetrotters owner and coach Abe Saperstein signed Tatum in 1942. Tatum was released by the Globetrotters in 1955 after 11 seasons. At the time of his release he was making a reported $53,000 per year, which \"The Detroit Tribune\" noted was the highest salary made by a professional basketball player. Saperstein told the press Tatum's release was due to his violation of team rules and repeated absences from games.\n\nTatum and Marques Haynes, who were both Harlem Globetrotters players, formed a barnstorming basketball team of their own: The Fabulous Harlem Magicians. Dempsey Hovland, owner of 20th Century Booking Agency, was recruited to book the Harlem Magicians' games. Hovland earlier had managed the barnstorming House of David basketball team.\n\nIn February 1955, Tatum filed a lawsuit against the owners of the San Francisco, California based Pan-American Bar for refusing to serve him, his wife and three companions on account of their race. Tatum was asking for $13,000 in damages. Tatum was arrested in Gary, Indiana in November 1955 for non-payment of alimony. He allegedly owed his ex-wife $7,000 in alimony and was ordered by Judge Anthony Roszkowski to pay $60 a week pending a final judgment.\n\nTatum was married briefly to Lottie 'the Body' Graves who he met in San Francisco.\n\nIn 1966, Tatum's son, Goose Jr., was killed in a car accident. Soon after, Tatum began drinking heavily which led to a series of hospital visits. He died at his home in El Paso, Texas on January 18, 1967, at the age of 45. The official autopsy stated that he died of natural causes. A veteran of the U.S. Army Air Corps during World War II, Tatum was interred in the Fort Bliss National Cemetery.\n\nTatum is considered to be the original \"clown prince\"—a term first applied to seminal Chicago Crusader/Philadelphia Giant Jackie Bethards in 1933—of the Trotters. He wove numerous comic routines into his play, many of which achieved cult status. Some of these routines were based on his stature—at 6'4\", it is reported that he had an arm span of about 84 inches (210 cm) and could touch his kneecaps without bending.\nTatum is credited with inventing the hook shot. While playing for the Harlem Magicians, Tatum was billed as having scored the most points in the history of basketball, but the assertion is dubious.\n\nIn 1974, Tatum was inducted into the Arkansas Sports Hall of Fame. His number 50 jersey was retired by the Harlem Globetrotters on February 8, 2002 and his name was placed on the Globetrotters' \"Legends Ring\" at Madison Square Garden in New York City. Tatum was the fourth player to have his number retired by the Globetrotters. In 2011, Tatum was elected to the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257714", "title": "Townleyhall passage grave", "text": "Townleyhall passage grave\n\nTownleyhall passage grave is a chamber tomb located around 2 km north of Dowth tomb. It is part of the megalithic complex of \"Brú na Bóinne\" in County Louth, Ireland.\n\nIt is located outside the World Heritage Site core area but (just) inside the buffer zone.\n\nThe site was originally a Neolithic settlement but was abandoned by its occupants, perhaps because it was a temporary site serving the construction project or due to the death of a senior member, and turned into a passage grave. Unlike its more famous neighbours in the Boyne valley, the tomb consists of a single chamber that merges with the entrance passage making it an undifferentiated passage grave.\n\nTownleyhall was excavated by George Eogan in 1962, work which found Carrowkeel ware pottery providing the first indication that Ireland's passage graves were of Neolithic date. Following this many of the other sites in the area were dug, although the methods used at the time would be considered crude by today's standards .\n\n"}
{"id": "2257717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257717", "title": "Geographically Separate Unit", "text": "Geographically Separate Unit\n\nIn the United States military a Geographically Separate Unit (GSU) is a base that is physically separate from, yet not autonomous of its \"parent\" base. GSUs are \"owned\" by their parent organization and are typically quite small.\n\nAssignment to a GSU can be a mixed blessing. The distance from the parent organization means a more relaxed atmosphere. However, it also means that members assigned to the GSU have to travel to the \"parent\" base for most military services such as the Commissary, Base exchange, or Personnel Unit.\n\nRAF Feltwell, subordinate to the 48th FW of RAF Lakenheath, is an example of a GSU.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257724", "title": "Cameroon Development Corporation", "text": "Cameroon Development Corporation\n\nThe Cameroon Development Corporation is an agro-industrial complex that grows, processes and markets tropical export crops. It operates in Cameroon in the Central African sub-region. It is a parastatal company with current share capital of 35,718,806,000 FCFA, and its operations are coordinated by the General Manager and governed by a Board of Directors presided by a Chairman. Currently, its plantations cover a total of approximately 42,000 hectares of land, 38,000 hectares is mature and of production stage. The corporation constitutes a workforce of over 22,036 employees, including temporary workers, making it the second highest employer after the state of Cameroon. Its major products include banana, semi-finished rubber, palm oil and palm kernel oil.\nThe CDC operates in groups, with each group controlling its own crop. For example the Group Palms Management is in charge of palm tree planting, growing, harvesting of palm fruits and the production of palm oil for export and local consumption.\nStaff operates in 3 levels: Senior service, intermediate service and Laborers.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257733", "title": "MC Metals", "text": "MC Metals\n\nMC Metals was a metal recycling company based in the Springburn area of Glasgow, Scotland. The \"MC\" stands for McWilliam & Christie, both names being associated with separate railway scrapyards that previously existed in the Glasgow area. The company was made famous through the scrapping of huge numbers of British Rail diesel locomotives in the 1980s and 1990s. They operated on railway-owned land adjacent to the British Rail Engineering Limited St. Rollox railway works. A condition of their lease was that only ex-railway scrap could be processed there. They also carried out asbestos removal work on stock destined for preservation. Rail vehicles arrived from all parts of the UK via a rail connection or by road. The site is now occupied by a Tesco supermarket.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257741", "title": "Idols (Finnish TV series)", "text": "Idols (Finnish TV series)\n\nIdols is a Finnish reality-television singing competition that airs on Nelonen (and formerly also on MTV3 and Sub). It debuted in the summer of 2003, and went on to become one of the most popular shows on Finnish television. Part of the \"Idol\" franchise, it originated from the reality program \"Pop Idol\" created by British entertainment executive Simon Fuller, which was first aired in 2001 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe program seeks to discover the best unsigned singer in Finland through a series of nationwide auditions, and the outcomes of the later stages of the competition are determined by public phone voting.\n\nThe four original judges were music executives Jone Nikula and Asko Kallonen, and songwriter-producers Hannu Korkeamäki and Nanna Mikkonen. The current judging panel consists of Nikula, singer Lauri Ylönen, drummer Jussi 69 and rapper Sini Sabotage. The show is hosted by television presenter Heikki Paasonen. Former hosts include Ellen Jokikunnas, Jani Toivola and Niina Backman.\n\nIn the seven seasons to date, its winners have been Hanna Pakarinen, Ilkka Jääskeläinen, Ari Koivunen, Koop Arponen, Martti Saarinen and Diandra Flores and Mitra Kaislaranta. Saarinen was the oldest winner at 30 whilst Flores was the youngest at 17. To date, \"Idols\" contestants have collectively sold over a million records throughout Finland. \"Idols\" is also unique throughout the \"Idol\" franchise because so far, the first or second runner-up of almost every season has in fact gone on to become more commercially successful than the winner.\n\nFollowing the completion of its fourth season, \"Idols\" was placed on a hiatus and replaced in 2010 by the \"X Factor\", a new reality singing competition originating from the United Kingdom's version, created by music executive Simon Cowell. However, due to the low ratings of \"X Factor\", MTV3 announced in May 2010, that \"Idols\" would return after a two-year hiatus. The fifth season aired in the spring of 2011, and the sixth season in the spring of 2013. The seventh season premiered in the fall of 2013, exactly ten years after the series premiered in 2003.\n\nSeason 1: Season 2: Season 3: Season 4: Season 5: Season 6: Season 7: \n\nThe first season of \"Idols\" premiered in the summer of 2003 and like its sister shows around the world, was an instant ratings success. It was hosted by Ellen Jokikunnas and Heikki Paasonen, and the four judges were Finnish musician Jone Nikula, Helsinki Music Company executive Asko Kallonen, and Finnish songwriters and producers Hannu Korkeamäki and Nanna Mikkonen. The semifinals started on 12 December 2003 and on 9 January 2004 the grand finale was held at the Helsinki Ice Hall. Former forklift truck driver Hanna Pakarinen was declared the first Finnish Idol with 60% of the public votes cast, winning 30,000 euros and a recording contract with Sony BMG.\n\nWinner Hanna Pakarinen released \"Love Is Like a Song\" as her coronation single after being crowned Finnish Idol. It debuted at number 1 on the Finnish singles chart, a position it held for four weeks. Her debut album \"When I Become Me\" was released on 9 June 2004 and it peaked at number 2 for five weeks. It was certified platinum and sold over 52,000 copies in Finland. Her second album \"Stronger\" was released in September 2005 and it too peaked at number two, however it did not manage to achieve the same commercial success of her debut, though it did earn gold status, selling almost 17,000 copies. Pakarinen's third studio album \"Lovers\" was released on Valentine's Day 2007 and was met with high critical and commercial success, with the album praised as her best to date and a clear change of artistic direction, with Pakarinen moving to a much rockier sound. Despite the fact that it charted lower than her two previous efforts (peaking at number 3), \"Lovers\" was active on the chart for fifteen weeks and was certified gold, selling 16,000 copies. Later in 2007 she participated in the Eurovision Song Contest with \"Leave Me Alone\", the second single from her third album and she finished the contest in 17th place. In January 2009 her fourth studio album \"Love in a Million Shades\" was released and charted at number 7, her lowest position to date. The album sold 7,000 and became her first album not be certified. Pakarinen's fifth studio album (and her first to be recorded in Finnish), \"Paperimiehen Tytär\" was released in October 2010 and debuted at number 9 on the albums chart.\n\nRunner-up Jani Wickholm signed a recording contract with the RCA division of Sony BMG and his debut album \"Kaikki muuttuu\" was released in September 2004. The album held the number 1 spot for two consecutive weeks and was certified platinum, selling 30,000 copies to date. His second album \"Alumiinitähdet\" was released a year later, peaked at number 6 but sold only 6,000. His third and fourth albums (\"Yhden lauseen mies\" and \"Ranta-ahon valot\") were released in January 2007 and April 2008 respectively, and were met with decreasing sales figures. Neither received a certification, with \"Yhden lauseen mies\" selling just 5,000 copies and \"Ranta-ahon valot\" fewer than 4,000. Wickholm released his first greatest hits compilation, \"Kirkkaimmat Tähdet\" in May 2010, but the album failed to achieve commercial success and as a result, missed the Finnish Top 50.\n\nThird place finisher Antti Tuisku also signed with Sony BMG and has gone on to become the most commercially successful contestant in \"Idols\" history, with his albums sales higher than those of all his fellow season one contestants combined. His debut album \"Ensimmäinen\" appeared in May 2004 and peaked at number 1 for three consecutive weeks. It was certified double platinum, selling 71,000 copies. \"Antti Tuisku\", his self-titled sophomore effort also hit the top spot when released a year later in May 2005, and was certified platinum after selling over 37,000 copies. He released a Christmas album, \"Minun Jouluni\" in November of the same year which was certified gold and peaked at number 3. On 4 October 2006 he released his third and fourth studio albums \"New York\" and \"Rovaniemi\" simultaneously. The former debuted at number 1 and the latter at number 2, making Tuisku the first Finnish artist to release two albums on the same date and have them take the two highest positions on the chart in their first week. \"New York\" proved to be more successful and sold 15,000 copies to be certified gold, whilst \"Rovaniemi\" sold just under 14,000. In November 2007 Tuisku released \"Aikaa\", his first \"greatest hits\" collection. Unlike his previous studio albums which had all been top 2 hits however, it stalled in the chart at number 10, selling only 7,000 copies. His fifth studio album \"Hengitän\" was released on 23 September 2009, peaked at number 3 and was accredited gold for sales of over 15,000 copies. Tuisku's sixth studio album, \"Kaunis Kaaos\" was released on 27 October 2010 and debuted at number 2, Tuisku's highest chart debut since 2006. It was certified platinum for sales of over 20,000 copies. In addition to the success of his albums, Tuisku has also achieved three number 1 singles, more than any other \"Idols\" contestant.\n\nFourth place finisher Christian Forss signed with Edel Records and released his self-titled debut album \"Christian Forss\" in late 2004. Although it initially peaked at number 6 for two weeks, the album quickly fell down and left the chart after selling 13,000 copies and did not achieve gold status. His second album \"Hungry Heart\" was released a year later but achieved little commercial success and failed to chart on the Finnish Top 40.\n\nSixth place finisher Anniina Karjalainen independently released her first album \"Traces of Me\" in 2006 but it did not receive significant success, failing to chart and selling only 3,000 copies.\n\nThe second season of \"Idols\" began in the autumn of 2005. The city of Oulu was added as the fourth audition venue, with a total of 1479 people auditioning. Ellen Jokikunnas and Heikki Paasonen returned to host, but the judging panel saw a significant change, with only Jone Nikula staying on the show. The other three judges were replaced by Musicmakers executive Kim Kuusi, singer-songwriter Nina Tapio and Jarkko Valtee. The semifinals started on 13 November, with Harjavalta's Katri Ylander the hot favourite to win the contest. However on 18 December 26-year-old Ilkka Jääskeläinen defeated her in the grand finale with 55% of the vote and took the crown as the second Finnish Idol.\n\nWinner Ilkka Jääskeläinen's debut album \"Vuosisadan rakkaustarina\" was released on 29 March 2006 and debuted at number two. However, Jääskeläinen failed to achieve significant critical or commercial success, and his debut album spent only three weeks inside the top five. It sold just over 13,000 copies and to date it is the only debut album by an \"Idol\" winner or runner-up not to achieve gold status. In December 2006, only one year after his \"Idols\" victory, Jääskeläinen was dropped by Sony BMG, becoming the first (and to date only) winner to be dropped by the company.\n\nRunner-up Katri Ylander was also signed up by Sony BMG and would go on to become the most successful of the season 2 \"Idols\" contestants. \"Katri Ylander\", her self-titled debut album was a huge critical success and when released in June 2006, spent three weeks at its peak of number 3. In total it spent 28 weeks on the chart and sold almost 27,000 copies throughout Finland, achieving a gold award. Her follow-up album \"Kaikki nämä sanat\" only managed to reach number 13, however it enjoyed a lengthy run on the chart and despite its low chart peak, sold 20,000 copies. Ylander's highly anticipated third studio album \"Valvojat\" was released on 2 September 2009 and debuted at number 6, seven places higher than her sophomore effort.\n\nThird place finisher Pete Seppälä released his first single \"Energiaa\" in March 2006 and it peaked at number 2. His debut album \"Jos nukun kiltisti sohvalla...\" was delayed until November however, and as a result failed to match the success of its lead single, failing to chart at all and amassing sales of only 5,000.\n\nFourth place finisher Agnes Pihlava was signed by RCA Records and her first single \"I Thought We Were Lovers\" became a great success, peaking at number 2 on the Finnish singles chart. Her debut album \"When The Night Falls\" was released in September 2006 and reached number 8, selling 12,000 copies. In 2007, Pihlava parted ways with Sony BMG and signed a new recording contract with Finnish label Scandal Records. Her second album \"Redemption\" was released on 21 October 2009. Though critically acclaimed, the album failed to make it into the official Finnish albums chart.\n\nSixth place finisher Roni Tran received a recording contract with Sony BMG and released his debut album \"Since 1987\" in mid-2006. It peaked at number 26 and spent only three weeks on the chart, selling around 4,500 copies. Tran was later dropped by Sony BMG due to the low success of the album.\n\nThe third season of \"Idols\" started on 4 January 2007. Ellen Jokikunnas returned to host the show but Heikki Paasonen did not and was replaced by Jani Toivola. Neither Jarkko Valtee nor Kim Kuusi returned as a judge but were replaced by only one judge: Asko Kallonen, who had previously appeared as a judge in the show's first season in 2004. During the finals, singer-songwriter Tarja Turunen also joined the panel as a special guest judge. The grand finale was held at Helsinki Ice Hall on 5 April 2007, and heavy-metal contestant Ari Koivunen was declared winner with 57% of the vote.\n\nWinner Ari Koivunen signed to Sony BMG and his coronation song \"On the Top of the World\" hit number 1. However, his debut album, \"Fuel for the Fire\", released in May 2007 was entirely composed of heavy metal material, Koivunen's signature style. The album was a huge success, debuting at number 1 and remaining there for a huge twelve consecutive weeks. \"Fuel for the Fire\" sold over 71,000 copies and received a double platinum certification. Koivunen's second album Becoming came in June 2008 and it too entered the chart at number 1; however it held the spot for only a single week and its success did not come near that of its predecessor, selling 17,000 units. Later in 2008 it was announced that Koivunen had become the new lead singer of Finnish heavy metal group Amoral. His first album with them, \"Show Your Colors\", was released in May 2009 and peaked at number 19, selling 2,000 copies to date.\n\nRunner-up Anna Abreu was signed to RCA Records and has gone on to become the highest-selling female \"Idols\" contestant to date. \"Anna Abreu\", her self-titled debut album, was released to massive success in August 2007. After peaking in its first week at number 1, the album spent 37 weeks on the chart and is certified double platinum with sales of over 86,000 copies - the highest for any album by an \"Idols\" alumni. Abreu's second album \"Now\" was released in October 2008 and it too was met with similar success to is predecessor. Its lead single \"Vinegar\" became one of the year's highest selling singles and spent three weeks at number 1, while the album itself sold 50,000 copies and was certified platinum, becoming the highest selling album of 2008. Abreu's third studio album \"Just a Pretty Face?\" was released on 21 October 2009 and peaked at number 2. It was certified gold in its first day of release after selling a massive 23,000 copies on that day alone, giving the album one of the highest first-day sales in Finnish music history. It has since been certified platinum for sales exceeding 30,000 units. Abreu's fourth studio album, \"Rush\" was released on 30 March 2011 and debuted at number 1, becoming Abreu's third chart-topping album. The lead single 'Hysteria' was released digitally on 10 January and peaked at number 6.\n\nThird-place finisher Kristiina Brask was signed to the Helsinki Music Company label and her debut album \"Silmät sydämeeni\" was released in November 2007. It peaked at number 9, has sold over 18,000 copies and received a gold certification. Following the release of her first album, Brask left HMC and instead signed a deal with Warner Bros. Records for her second album. Titled \"Kuivilla susta\", Brask's second studio album was released on 9 September 2009 and debuted at number 11.\n\nFourth-place finisher Kristian Meurman signed a contract with RCA Records and his debut album \"Ensiaskeleet\" was released in June 2007. It debuted at number 2, a position it held for its first eight weeks on the chart, never quite managing to rise up to the top spot. The album sold over 26,000 copies and as a result was awarded gold status. Meurman's second studio album \"Läpi yön\" emerged almost exactly one year later, reached number 3 and sold almost 12,000 copies. His third studio album \"Galaksi\" was released in June 2009 but failed to chart and sold only 1000 copies. As a result, Meurman was dropped by record label, RCA Records.\n\nFifth-place finisher Panu Larnos released his debut album \"Million Miles\" in early 2008, and although initially billed to be a success, the album failed to chart at all and has sold less than 7,000 copies to date.\n\nThe fourth season of \"Idols\" started in the autumn of 2008, with the cities of Rovaniemi and Kuopio added as the fifth and sixth audition venues. Ellen Jokikunnas and Jani Toivola both returned to present the show once again, but were also joined by a third host in the form of Heikki Paasonen, who had previously left the show after season 2. Judge Asko Kallonen left the show once again and was replaced by record producer Patric Sarin. The finals started on 9 November and contestant Pete Parkkonen was considered favourite to win. However, he was unexpectedly eliminated in third place. The grand finale was held on 14 December and Koop Arponen was declared the fourth Finnish Idol with 70.3% of the vote.\n\nWinner Koop Arponen signed a recording contract with Sony BMG and his coronation single \"Insomnia\" debuted at number 1 on the Finnish singles chart, a position it held for two weeks. His debut album \"New Town\" peaked at number 1 in its first week, knocking third-place contestant Pete Parkonen's album off the top spot. The album remained active on the chart for sixteen weeks and has sold almost 21,000 copies, certifying it gold. Arponen's sophomore effort, \"Bright Lights\" was released on 24 March 2010 and debuted at number 8.\n\nRunner-up Anna Puu signed to RCA Records and has since gone on to become the most successful season 4 \"Idols\" contestant. Her first single \"C'est la vie\" reached number 1 in its ninth week on the chart and her debut album \"Anna Puu\" went straight in at number 1 a week after its release on 29 April 2009. It held the top spot for a total of twelve weeks and received huge critical acclaim from the Finnish music industry. It has spent an \"Idols\" alumni record of 21 weeks in the top three and 45 weeks in total on the albums chart. It has sold over 70,000 copies to be accredited double platinum and is ranked as the twelfth best-performing album in Finnish music history. In its 45th week on the chart, \"Anna Puu\" sat at number 9, and only fell out of the Top 50 the following week because it had been placed in the mid-price chart. Puu's highly anticipated second album \"Sahara\" was released on 26 May 2010 and debuted at the top spot, becoming her second consecutive number one album. It held this position for a total of eight weeks.\n\nThird place finisher Pete Parkkonen received a recording contract from Sony BMG and was the first season 4 contestant to release an album. Appropriately titled \"First Album\", Parkkonen's post-Idols debut reached number 1 in its first week. The album went on to sell just over 24,000 copies and was accredited a gold award. Parkkonen's second studio album, \"I'm An Accident\" was released on 18 February 2010. It failed to gain the same success as his debut, peaking at number 21 and dropping out of the albums chart after only one week.\n\nFourth place finisher Kalle Löfström signed a deal with Edel Records and released his debut album \"Born in 84\" on 10 June 2009. The album failed to attract any success however and did not chart, selling less than 1,500 copies to date.\n\nOn 17 May 2010, it was announced that \"Idols\" would return for a fifth season, following a two-year hiatus. Regional auditions took place in November and December 2010, with the season premiering on MTV3 on 3 February 2011. The Finale was aired in May 2011.\n\nWhilst season 4 judges Jone Nikula and Nina Tapio both returned to the panel, Patric Sarin did not and was replaced by music executive Sami Pitkämö. For the first time in the show's history, guest judges appeared during the regional audition, including Katri Helena and season 1 \"Idols\" alumni Antti Tuisku. Heikki Paasonen returned as host but neither Jani Toivola nor Ellen Jokikunnas joined him. Instead, Niina Backman was brought in as the show's new hostess.\n\n\"Idols Extra\", a show that featured extra scenes behind the scenes and discussion about the show with varying guest, was replaced by a similar new show, \"Idols Studio\". Even though \"Idols Extra\" was aired on Sub, \"Idols Studio\" was aired on MTV3 like the main show. \"Idols Studio\" was hosted by Janne Kataja, who is a former host of \"Idols Extra\".\n\nThis season also saw the first ever \"Idols\" charity show, in which contestants, previous \"Idols\" alumni and a variety of national and international stars performed and the Finnish public donated money in aid of FinnChurchAid. The show was broadcast on 24 April 2011, and was inspired by \"Idol Gives Back\", which has been broadcast three times as part of \"American Idol\".\n\nThis was the first season that did not include separate elimination shows, and the voting results were announced either at the end of the performance show or alternatively at the beginning of the following live performance.\n\nOn 8 May 2011, it was announced that \"Idols\" will return for a sixth season. Regional auditions took place in the fall of 2011, and the season premiered on MTV3 on 1 January 2012.\n\nThe show underwent a number of changes from season five, including two new judges and the removal of semifinals. Heikki Paasonen and Niina Backman both returned to host the show, but former judges Nina Tapio and Sami Pitkämö were replaced by singer Laura Voutilainen and music manager Tommi Liimatainen, making Jone Nikula the only existing judge from the previous season. Voutilainen appeared in the previous season as a guest judge.\n\nThis was the first, and so far only, season that did not include semifinals. Instead, two TOP15 live shows were aired, and the ten finalists were to be decided by judges and public's votes.\n\nDiandra Flores won the season at the age of 17, on 6 May 2013.\n\nIn late 2012, MTV3 announced that it was unclear whether \"Idols\" would return for another season. However, on 26 February 2013, it was announced that \"Idols\" would return in 2013 to celebrate the series' tenth anniversary.\n\nThe show once again saw multiple changes from the previous season. Heikki Paasonen will return to host the show, but Niina Backman will not, making this the first season to have only one host. Laura Voutilainen and Tommi Liimatainen both left the series after only one season and will be replaced by singer Lauri Ylönen, rapper Sini Sabotage and drummer Jussi 69. This is the first season since the second season to have four regular judges.\nMitra Kaislaranta and Joseph Miettinen are the final two of this season's Idols. At the end, Mitra won the show with her winning song: Äkkisyvää\n\nThis list only includes contestants with at least one certified album, and the totals do not include EPs, digital-only albums and/or pre-\"Idols\" recordings.\n\nGold, Platinum, and/or Multi-Platinum (Finnish Sales Only)Note: In 2010, the IFPI changed the sales thresh-holds for Finnish gold and platinum certification from 15,000 and 30,000 to 10,000 and 20,000, respectively.\n\nThe following is a comprehensive list of other \"Idols\" alumni album sales and reflects that commercial success can be achieved through association with \"Idols\" and with post-\"Idols\" promotion, although the degree of success varies considerably (this list only includes contestants who have numbers available, and again does not include EPs, digital-only albums, holiday albums or pre-\"Idols\" recordings):\nNOTE: Singles are only included where sales figures are available.\n\"The table is ranked in term of sales, but can be sorted other ways by clicking on the icon.\"\n"}
{"id": "2257749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257749", "title": "Andrew O'Hagan", "text": "Andrew O'Hagan\n\nAndrew O'Hagan, FRSL (born 1968) is a Scottish novelist and non-fiction author. He is also an Editor at Large of \"London Review of Books\" and \"Esquire Magazine\". O'Hagan is currently the Visiting Professor of Writing at King's College London.\n\nThree of O'Hagan’s novels have been nominated for the \"Booker Prize for Fiction.\" He was selected by the literary magazine \"Granta\" for inclusion in their 2003 list of the top 20 young British novelists. His novels have been translated into 15 languages. His essays, reports and stories have appeared in \"London Review of Books\", \"New York Review of Books\", \n\"Granta\", \"The Guardian\" and \"The New Yorker\".\n\nO'Hagan was born in Glasgow, and grew up in Kilwinning, North Ayrshire. He is of Irish Catholic descent and attended St Michael's Academy in Kilwinning before studying at the University of Strathclyde.\n\nIn 1991, O'Hagan joined the staff of the \"London Review of Books\", where he worked for four years. In 1995, he published his first book, \"The Missing\", which crossed genres by exploring the lives of people who have gone missing in Britain and the families left behind. \"The Missing\" was shortlisted for three literary awards. In 1999, O'Hagan's debut novel, \"Our Fathers\" was nominated for several awards, including the Booker Prize, the Whitbread First Novel Award and the International Dublin Literary Award. It won the Winifred Holtby Prize for Fiction.\n\nIn 2003, his next novel \"Personality\", which has close similarities to the life of Lena Zavaroni, won the James Tait Black Memorial Prize for fiction. That same year, O'Hagan won the E. M. Forster Award from the American Academy of Arts and Letters.\n\nIn 2006, his third novel, \"Be Near Me\", was published by Faber and Faber and long-listed for that year's Booker Prize. It went on to win the \"Los Angeles Times\"'s 2007 Prize for Fiction. In 2008, he edited a new selection of Robert Burns's poems for Canongate Books, published as \"A Night Out with Robert Burns\". A copy was lodged in every secondary school in Scotland. Following on from this, he wrote and presented a three-part film on Burns for the BBC, \"The World According to Robert Burns\", first on 5 January 2009. In January 2011, \"Scotland on Sunday\" gave away 80,000 copies of the book. Also in 2008, Faber & Faber also published O'Hagan's first non-fiction collection, \"The Atlantic Ocean: Essays on Britain and America\". The latter was shortlisted for the 2008 Saltire Book of the Year Award.\n\nHis 2010 novel, \"The Life and Opinions of Maf the Dog, and of His Friend Marilyn Monroe\", is told in the voice of a Scottish Maltese poodle (\"Maf\"), the name of the real dog given by Frank Sinatra to Marilyn Monroe in 1960. It was published by Faber & Faber in May 2010 and won O'Hagan a Glenfiddich Spirit of Scotland Award.\n\nIn March 2012, it was announced that O'Hagan is working on a theatrical production about the crisis in British newspapers, entitled \"Enquirer\" with the National Theatre of Scotland.\n\nIn 2015, O'Hagan published his fifth novel \"The Illuminations: A Novel\", which was longlisted for the Booker Prize.\n\nIn June 2016, the \"London Review of Books\" published a 35,612 word essay by O'Hagan, titled \"'The Satoshi Affair: Andrew O'Hagan on the many lives of Satoshi Nakamoto',\" which followed the events surrounding programmer Craig Wright's claim to be bitcoin founder, Satoshi Nakomoto. In the article, O'Hagan, describes how he was approached by Wright and nTrust, a group that he was associated with, in order to cover the exposure of Craig Wright's identity as Satoshi. Though the article is inconclusive as to the true identity of Satoshi, some have taken it as evidence that Wright is a fraud. ‘The Satoshi Affair’ is currently being produced as a TV series for Netflix.\n\nIn October 2017, O'Hagan published \"The Secret Life: Three True Stories of the Digital Age\" that includes stories about his attempt to help Julian Assange write his memoirs, the author using the identity of a deceased man to make a new life on the Internet and expanding on Craig Wright's claim to be Satoshi Nakamoto.\n\nThree of O'Hagan's books have received adaptations into different media. In 1996, Channel 4 Television presented \"Calling Bible John: Portrait of a Serial Killer\", nominated for a BAFTA award. In 2009, his novel \"Be Near Me\" was adapted by Ian McDiarmid for the Donmar Warehouse and the National Theatre of Scotland.\n\nIn September 2011, the National Theatre of Scotland presented \"The Missing\" as a play adapted by O'Hagan and directed by John Tiffany at Tramway, Glasgow. The play received favourable reviews. \"The Daily Telegraph\" called it \"a profound act of mourning and memory.\" \"The Guardian\" called the work \"an arresting, genre-defying work – part speculative memoir, part Orwellian social reportage\" that \"induces the kind of shock he [the author] must have experienced...\"\n\nIn February 2014, O'Hagan wrote about his experience as a ghostwriter for Julian Assange's autobiography (published by Canongate and Alfred A. Knopf). His essay, entitled \"Ghosting\" which was published in the \"London Review of Books\" gained significant media attention because of his description of Assange's character and his strained relationships with his past and present colleagues.\n\nIn August 2017, O'Hagan gave a speech at The Edinburgh International Book Festival, where he declared that he had become a supporter of Scottish independence. \n\nIn 2008, O'Hagan was a visiting fellow in Creative Writing at Trinity College, Dublin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe British Council lists the following awards and nominations for O'Hagan's work:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257756", "title": "Llanera", "text": "Llanera\n\nLlanera is the feminine form of the Spanish word llanero. It may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2257759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257759", "title": "Hugh Cornwell", "text": "Hugh Cornwell\n\nHugh Alan Cornwell (born 28 August 1949) is an English musician and singer-songwriter, best known for being the vocalist and guitarist for the punk rock/new wave band the Stranglers from 1974 to 1990.\n\nCornwell grew up in Tufnell Park and Kentish Town and attended William Ellis School in Highgate, where he played bass in a band with Richard Thompson, later a member of Fairport Convention. In the late 1960s, after earning a bachelor's degree in biochemistry from Bristol University, he embarked on post-graduate research at Lund University in Sweden. Not long after his arrival he formed the band Johnny Sox.\n\nCornwell returned to the UK in 1974 with Johnny Sox (minus Hans Wärmling). Drummer Jet Black then joined the band. At one stage it was just Cornwell and Black, who were then joined by bassist Jean-Jacques Burnel. Keyboardist Hans Wärmling, on holiday from Sweden, joined the line-up towards the end of 1974. The Johnny Sox name was dropped, with the band adopting the name The Guildford Stranglers before settling on The Stranglers.\n\nWärmling was soon replaced by Dave Greenfield, who joined in 1975 after answering an advertisement placed in the \"Melody Maker\". Cornwell was the lead guitarist in the group and he also sang the majority of songs, with Burnel handling lead vocals on about a third of the band's songs. Years later, Burnel recalled that he often sang lyrics written by Cornwell, and vise-versa, depending on \"who had the best voice for that particular song.\" \n\nBy 1977 the group had secured a contract with United Artists Records; they went on to become the highest-selling band to emerge from the UK punk scene, with numerous hit singles and record albums.\n\nBy the time Cornwell reached his thirties the British punk scene was beginning to fragment, and this was instrumental in prompting him to begin a solo career. He recorded his first album away from the group, \"Nosferatu\", in collaboration with the Captain Beefheart's Magic Band's drummer, Robert Williams, in 1979.\n\nIn 1990 he decided that the Stranglers could go no further artistically. He recorded the album \"10\" with the band before leaving after 16 years.\n\nAfter leaving the Stranglers, Cornwell worked with Roger Cook and Andy West as CCW. Their self-titled album was released in 1992, with five of the ten tracks co-produced by Neil Davidge. Cornwell has released several solo albums including \"Wolf\" (1988) produced by Ian Ritchie, \"Wired\" (1993), \"Guilty\" (1997), \"Hi Fi\" (2000), \"Footprints in the Desert\" (2002), \"Mayday\" (2002), \"In the Dock\" (2003), and \"Beyond Elysian Fields\" (2004). \"Wired\", \"Guilty\" and \"Hi Fi\" were released under different names, and with slightly different track listings, in the United States. \"Beyond Elysian Fields\" was initially released by Track Records in the UK, followed by Invisible Hands Music in the rest of the world, with expanded artwork. In 2006 a live album in two forms appeared: \"People Places Pieces\", a triple CD box set, accompanied by a simultaneously released mass-market highlights disc, \"Dirty Dozen\". The 12-track highlights disc, \"Live It and Breathe It\", was released in 2005 in advance of the box set.\n\nIn June 2008 Cornwell followed in the footsteps of Radiohead and Nine Inch Nails by offering his new album \"Hooverdam\" as a free download on his website. \"Hooverdam\" was recorded at Toe Rag Studios with record producer, Liam Watson. The album was accompanied by a film, \"Blueprint\", which depicted the recording process of the album. Cornwell explained that the film was partly motivated by the risible quality of DVDs accompanying contemporary CD releases. \"Blueprint\" was described as \"an engrossing film that borrows from Godard's \"Sympathy For The Devil\" and Jewison's \"The Thomas Crown Affair\".\n\nHe released solo records \"Totem and Taboo\" and \"Monster\" during the 2010s and continues to tour as part of his three-piece solo band. In a 2018 interview he was critical of the Stranglers' current lineup, saying: \"I'll be playing The Stranglers’ hits when I tour this album, because I think people are no longer associating me with those songs after 28 years. They have been sequestered by a bogus version of the group with only two original members.\"\n\nCornwell has an interest in acting, and has appeared in a number of productions including the 1987 Peter Richardson film \"Eat the Rich\", the award-winning BBC \"Screen Two\" series (successor to \"Play for Today\") and in the 1995 BBC production, \"Rumble\". He has also appeared in a number of videos and short films, including Bertrand Fèvre's \"L'étoile de sang\".\n\nA cricket fan, Cornwell appeared on the 'Jamie Theakston Cricket Show' on BBC Radio 5 Live in 2001. He played a live acoustic version of \"(Get A) Grip (On Yourself)\" with the then England batsman and guitarist Mark Butcher. Cornwell subsequently became a player with Bunbury Cricket Club, and has been a guest on 'A View From The Boundary' on BBC Radio Four's \"Test Match Special\" and BBC Radio 5 Live's \"Yes It's The Ashes\".\n\nCornwell has written five books:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257770", "title": "Batman: Vengeance", "text": "Batman: Vengeance\n\nBatman: Vengeance is a 2001 video game based on the fictional superhero of the same name, that was released on all major platforms of the sixth generation of console games. It was developed and published by Ubi Soft in conjunction with Warner Bros. Interactive Entertainment and DC Comics.\n\nThe game is based on the television series \"The New Batman Adventures\", itself a successor to the acclaimed \"\". The story revolves around Batman investigating the mysterious circumstances of the apparent death of his archenemy, the Joker, only to soon find himself entangled in a web of nefarious schemes orchestrated by other villains, such as Mr. Freeze and Poison Ivy; the connection between all these schemes eventually becomes evident when evidence hinting at the Joker's survival comes into light, and Batman must once again foil the Clown Prince of Crime's sinister plot to destroy Gotham City.\n\nBased on most of the game's character designs and appearances, \"Batman Vengeance\" would seem to take place after the conclusion of \"\", but before the start of \"The New Batman Adventures\". Plot points that support this include Mr. Freeze still posing as a threat (as his appearance in \"The New Batman Adventures\" episode \"Cold Comfort\" was the last time he was seen prior to \"Batman Beyond\"), as well as the fact that Batgirl is the Dark Knight's only active sidekick in the game.\n\nBatman by this point is well established as the guardian of Gotham City, with the game sharing the voice cast, production design, and continuity of the DC animated universe. During the course of the game, Batman is monitored and assisted by Batgirl in the Batcave.\n\nAfter saving a woman named Mary Flynn from a bomb planted by the Joker at the Gotham Chemicals building, Batman learns that the villain has kidnapped her son and is holding him for ransom. Upon saving her from some of the Joker's goons later that night, Batman gives her a transmitter to track her down in case of any more trouble. Using the transmitter, Batman later tracks Mary down to a partially demolished Gotham bridge, only to discover that Mary was actually Harley Quinn in disguise and that the entire kidnapping scheme was merely one of the Joker's plans to lure Batman into a trap. Batman defeats the Joker, but he seemingly falls to his death. However, suspecting that the Joker is still alive, Batman then decides to let Harley go, as he still has the transmitter allowing him to monitor her activities, thus making her his only opportunity to learn more of the Joker's true plans.\n\nLater, Mr. Freeze receives a tape with a promotional video for Promethium, a drug created by scientist Isaac Evers to treat cryogenically frozen people, like Freeze and his wife Nora. Freeze had prievously tried Promothium on himself and Nora, but to no avail, and now, believing that Evers sent the tape to taunt him, an enraged Freeze attacks the Gotham Industrial Research to find and kill him. While monitoring Harley's activities, Batman and Batgirl are informed on the attack, and the former goes to stop Freeze, but fails to prevent him from kidnapping Evers. After saving Evers following a pursuit in the Batwing, Batman questions him about the source of his fundings. When Evers lies that it was a grant supplied by the Wayne foundation, Batman lets him go and returns to the Batcave to attempt to access his financial records. Unable to do it remotely, Batman returns to Gotham Industrial and hacks into its data center, allowing Batgirl to access Evers' financial records, learning that he had funding pulled due to instability of Promethium, which contains several highly flammable particles, but he was able to continue his research with funding from the Joker, implying the villain had plans of his own for the drug. Batman then finds that Freeze has also returned to Gotham Industrial to abduct Evers again and defeats him, encasing him in an ice block with his own freeze gun to save his life when his suit malfunctions and his body begins to overheat.\n\nWhile attempting to track down Harley using the transmiter, Batgirl comes across Mayor Hamilton Hill buying a package from a masked individual at the train station. She attempts to pursue the individual aboard the train, but he overpowers her, prompting Batman to board the train in order to save her. The individual then attempts to escape in a stolen car and crashes off the road after Batman pursues him in the Batmobile, though he manages to flee on foot. While investigating the scene of the crash, Batman and Batgirl find an apple belonging to Poison Ivy, implying that Harley had intentionally used the transmitter to lead them to another villain's scheme. While Batgirl discovers that apple contains a mutated worm, Batman tracks down Hill to the ruins of Gotham Chemicals, where he defeats the individual from earlier - revealed to be one of Ivy's mutated goons - and questions Hill about Ivy's plans; he explains that, using a chemical she received from an unknown source, Ivy was able to create several \"upgraded\" plants that she then put into various politicians and wealthy socialites through various foods, and is now blackmailing them and forcing them to buy special \"food\" that prevents the plants from consuming their insides, while also rebuilding Gotham Chemicals to produce more of the antidote for the plants. Batman then defeats Ivy, using electricity to kill her mutated plants, and retrieves the antidote for Hill and Ivy's other victims. \n\nBatman later spots some of the Joker's goons hijacking a blimp and goes to speak with Harley, who informs him that the Joker's men are now operating on their own following his death, and left with some of his \"toys\" and the blueprints to the historic Gotham Gasworks. Batman goes there and defeats the goons, discovering that they were sending the Joker's flammable toys into the pipe network, which lead throughout the entire city, and stopping them by openning the gates to the sprinkler system to flood the pipes. He then encounters a tied up Isaac Evers, who admits planning the Gasworks scheme to burn down Gotham Industrial and then collect the insurance money, as he couldn't collect on the damage left by Mr. Freeze without revealing his involvement with the Joker, which would lead to him being arrested for affiliation with the villain; he instead resorted to hiring his goons for help, but they betrayed and tied him up, before embarking on their own agenda to burn down the entire city. After handing Evers over to the police, Batman is framed for hitting Commissioner Gordon with a Batarang and barely escapes from the police. Concluding that the Joker must be behind everything that occurred since his 'death', Batman disguises himself to avoid police attention and investigates the villain's old hideout at the Funnibose Warehouse, finding evidence that he is still alive.\n\nAfter tracking the stolen blimp to Gotham Gasworks, Batman confronts the Joker, who, just like Batman predicted, faked his death weeks prior so that he could continue his operations without anyone noticing, and manipulated everyone, including Batman, into doing exactly what he wanted: he funded Evers' research to have him produce large quantities of the highly flammable Promethium; sent Mr. Freeze the tape to provoke him into attacking Evers, so that he would later hire his goons for the Gasworks scheme; gave Poison Ivy the chemical so that she would rebuild Gotham Chemicals, allowing the Joker to mass-produce his signature Joker toxin; and used Harlely to relay false information to Batman, having him foil the other villains before they went too far with their schemes, and ultimately framing him for attacking Commissioner Gordon. The Joker then explains that Batman opening the sprinkler system will now allow him to spread his toxin, mixed with Promethium to make it highly flammable, from the blimp throughout the entire Gotham, burning it down. As the Joker flees via the blimp, Batman subdues his goons and Harley, before boarding the blimp as well, ultimately stopping the flow of Promethium and Joker toxin in the sprinkler system, and even foiling the Joker's backup plan to crash the blimp into the Gotham. After defeating the Joker and destroying the blimp, Batman saves the villain from falling to his death, having foiled his plans once again.\n\nIn the aftermath, Mr. Freeze, Poison Ivy, Harley, and the Joker are all locked up in Arkham Asylum, while Commissioner Gordon calls Batman to thank him for saving Gotham and apologize for sending the police after him, as they have found Harley's fingerprints on the Batarang that hit him. Batman then retreats to look out over the city, when the Bat-Signal ignites behind him, calling him back into action.\n\n\"Vengeance\" took environmental and character designs from \"The New Batman Adventures\", and starred most of the main voice cast from both it and its predecessor, \"Batman: The Animated Series\". The voice cast includes Kevin Conroy as Batman, Mark Hamill as the Joker, Tara Strong as Batgirl, Diane Pershing as Poison Ivy, Michael Ansara as Mr. Freeze, Efrem Zimbalist, Jr. as Alfred Pennyworth, Arleen Sorkin as Harley Quinn, Bob Hastings as Commissioner Gordon, and Lloyd Bochner as Mayor Hill.\n\nBy the end of 2001, sales of \"Batman: Vengeance\" had surpassed 540,000 units. Its sales surpassed 670,000 copies by the end of March 2002.\n\n\"Batman Vengeance\" received average reviews from critics and fans alike. The game's praise mainly went towards the voice acting, story, and cinematic cutscenes. There was criticism for the first person mode, which limited player's abilities in-game. The PC version drew a lot of mixed or negative reviews due to complex and sometimes confusing controls.\n\nJeff Lundrigan reviewed the PlayStation 2 version of the game for \"Next Generation\", rating it three stars out of five, and stated that \"While it has a number of things going for it, \"Batman Vengeance\" still comes up short in a few key areas.\"\n\nThe Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences nominated \"Batman: Vengeance\" for its 2001 \"Outstanding Achievement in Original Musical Composition\" award, which ultimately went to \"Tropico\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257778", "title": "Theodor Ludwig Wilhelm von Bischoff", "text": "Theodor Ludwig Wilhelm von Bischoff\n\nTheodor Ludwig Wilhelm von Bischoff (28 October 1807 in Hannover – 5 December 1882 in Munich) was a German physician and biologist.\n\nHe lectured on pathological anatomy at Heidelberg (1835-1843) and held professorships in anatomy and physiology at Giessen (1843-1855) and Munich, where he was appointed to the chair of anatomy and physiology in 1854. In 1843, Theodor von Bischoff was elected as member of the German Academy of Sciences.\n\nHis most important contributions were made in embryology with a series of four exhaustive memoirs on the development of the mammalian ovum; published in 1842 (rabbit), 1845 (dog), 1852 (guinea pig), and 1854 (roe deer). His studies concerning animal metabolism by measuring urea were less successful, as was his research on the anatomy of skull and brain.\n\nHe was elected a foreign member of the Royal Netherlands Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1878.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257783", "title": "Talavera", "text": "Talavera\n\nTalavera may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257787", "title": "Kofman", "text": "Kofman\n\nKofman is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257791", "title": "Nitrogen mustard", "text": "Nitrogen mustard\n\nNitrogen mustards are cytotoxic organic compounds with the chloroethylamine (Cl(CH)NR) functional group. Although originally produced as chemical warfare agents, they were the first chemotherapeutic agents for treatment of cancer. Nitrogen mustards are nonspecific DNA alkylating agents. \n\nDuring World War II nitrogen mustards were studied at the Yale School of Medicine by Alfred Gilman and Louis Goodman, and classified human clinical trials of nitrogen mustards for the treatment of lymphoma started in December 1942. Also during World War II, an incident during the air raid on Bari, Italy, led to the release of mustard gas that affected several hundred soldiers and civilians. Medical examination of the survivors showed a decreased number of lymphocytes. After World War II was over, the Bari incident and the Yale group's studies eventually converged prompting a search for other similar compounds. Due to its use in previous studies, the nitrogen mustard known as \"HN2\" became the first chemotherapy drug mustine.\n\nNitrogen mustards are not related to the mustard plant or its pungent essence, allyl isothiocyanate; the name comes from the pungent smell of chemical weapons preparations.\n\nThe nitrogen mustard drug mustine (HN2), is no longer commonly in use in its original IV formulation because of excessive toxicity. Other nitrogen mustards developed include cyclophosphamide, chlorambucil, uramustine, melphalan, and bendamustine. Bendamustine has recently re-emerged as a viable chemotherapeutic treatment.\n\nNitrogen mustards that can be used for chemical warfare purposes are tightly regulated. Their weapon designations are:\n\nNor-mustard can be used in the synthesis of piperazine drugs. For example, mazapertine, aripiprazole & fluanisone. Canfosfamide was also made from normustard.\n\nSome nitrogen mustards of opiates were also prepared, although these are not known to be antineoplastic. Examples include Chlornaltrexamine and Chloroxymorphamine.\n\nNitrogen mustards (NMs) form cyclic aminium ions (aziridinium rings) by intramolecular displacement of the chloride by the amine nitrogen. This aziridinium group then alkylates DNA once it is attacked by the N-7 nucleophilic center on the guanine base. A second attack after the displacement of the second chlorine forms the second alkylation step that results in the formation of interstrand cross-links (ICLs) as it was shown in the early 1960s. At that time it was proposed that the ICLs were formed between N-7 atom of guanine residue in a 5’-d(GC) sequence. Later it was clearly demonstrated that NMs form a 1,3 ICL in the 5’-d(GNC) sequence.\n\nThe strong cytotoxic effect caused by the formation of ICLs is what makes NMs an effective chemotherapeutic agent. Other compounds used in cancer chemotherapy that have the ability to form ICLs are cisplatin, mitomycin C, carmustine, and psoralen. These kinds of lesions are effective at forcing the cell to undergo apoptosis via p53, a protein which scans the genome for defects. Note that the alkylating damage itself is not cytotoxic and does not directly cause cell death.\n\nNitrogen mustards are powerful and persistent blister agents. HN1, HN2, HN3 are therefore classified as Schedule 1 substances within the Chemical Weapons Convention. Production and use is therefore strongly restricted.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257792", "title": "Koffman", "text": "Koffman\n\nKoffman is a surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257795", "title": "Sports in the United States", "text": "Sports in the United States\n\nSport in the USA are an important part of American culture. American football is the most popular sport to watch in the United States, followed by baseball, basketball, and ice hockey, which makes up the \"4 major sports\". Soccer, tennis, golf, wrestling, auto racing, arena football, field lacrosse, box lacrosse and volleyball are also played in the country. Based on Olympic Games, World Championships, and other major competitions in respective sports, the United States is the most successful sports nation in the world .\n\nBased on revenue, the four major professional sports leagues in the United States are Major League Baseball (MLB), the National Basketball Association (NBA), the National Football League (NFL), and the National Hockey League (NHL). The market for professional sports in the United States is roughly $69 billion, roughly 50% larger than that of all of Europe, the Middle East, and Africa combined. All four enjoy wide-ranging domestic media coverage and are considered the preeminent leagues in their respective sports in the world, although American football does not have a substantial following in other nations. Three of those leagues have teams that represent Canadian cities, and all four are the most financially lucrative sports leagues of their sport. Major League Soccer (MLS), which also includes teams based in Canada, is sometimes included in a \"top five\" of leagues. With an average attendance of over 20,000 per game, MLS has the third highest average attendance of any sports league in the U.S. after the National Football League (NFL) and Major League Baseball (MLB), and is the seventh highest attended professional soccer league worldwide.\n\nProfessional teams in all major sports in the United States operate as franchises within a league, meaning that a team may move to a different city if the team's owners believe there would be a financial benefit, but franchise moves are usually subject to some form of league-level approval. All major sports leagues use a similar type of regular-season schedule with a post-season playoff tournament. In addition to the major league–level organizations, several sports also have professional minor leagues, active in smaller cities across the country. As in Canada and Australia, sports leagues in the United States do not practice promotion and relegation, unlike many sports leagues in Europe.\n\nSports are particularly associated with education in the United States, with most high schools and universities having organized sports, and this is a unique sporting footprint for the U.S. College sports competitions play an important role in the American sporting culture, and college basketball and college football are as popular as professional sports in some parts of the country. The major sanctioning body for college sports is the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).\n\nUnlike most other nations, the United States government does not provide funding for sports nor for the United States Olympic Committee.\n\nMost sports in the United States evolved out of European practices. However, basketball, volleyball, skateboarding, and snowboarding are American inventions, some of which have become popular in other countries and worldwide. Lacrosse and surfing arose from Native American and Native Hawaiian activities that predate Western contact.\n\nIn colonial Virginia and Maryland sports occupied a great deal of attention at every social level. In England, hunting was severely restricted to landowners. In America, game was more than plentiful. Everyone—including servants and slaves—could and did hunt, so there was no social distinction to be had. In 1691, Sir Francis Nicholson, the governor of Virginia, organized competitions for the “better sort of Virginians onely who are Batchelors,” and he offered prizes “to be shot for, wrastled, played at backswords, & Run for by Horse and foott.”\n\nHorse racing remained the leading sport in the 1780–1860 era, especially in the South. It involved owners, trainers and spectators from all social classes and both races. However, religious evangelists were troubled by the gambling dimension, and democratic elements complained that it was too aristocratic, since only the rich could own very expensive competitive horses.\n\nThe United States Olympic Committee (USOC) is the National Olympic Committee for the United States. U.S. athletes have won a total of 2,522 medals (1,022 of them being gold) at the Summer Olympic Games and another 305 at the Winter Olympic Games. Most medals have been won in the sport of athletics (track and field) (801, 32%) and swimming (553, 22%). American swimmer Michael Phelps is the most decorated Olympic athlete of all time, with 28 Olympic medals, 23 of them gold.\n\nThe United States has sent athletes to every celebration of the modern Olympic Games except the 1980 Summer Olympics hosted by the Soviet Union in Moscow, which it boycotted because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan.\n\nThe United States has won gold at every games in which it has competed, more gold and overall medals than any other country in the Summer Games and also has the second-most gold and overall medals in the Winter Games, trailing Norway. From the mid-20th century to the late 1980s, the United States mainly competed with the Soviet Union at the Summer Games and with the Soviet Union, Norway, and East Germany at the Winter Games. However, after the dissolution of the Soviet Union, it now primarily contends with China and Great Britain at the Summer Games for both the overall medal count and the gold medal count and with Norway and Canada at the Winter Games for the overall medal count.\n\nThe United States hosted both Summer and Winter Games in 1932, and has hosted more Games than any other country – eight times, four times each for the Summer and Winter Games:\n\n\nLos Angeles will host the Summer Olympics for a third time in 2028, marking the ninth time the U.S. hosts the Olympic Games.\n\nThe United States has won the most gold and overall medals in the Summer Olympic Games, even if the medal totals of the Soviet Union/CIS and Russia are combined, and has topped the medal table 17 times. The country has won the second most gold and overall medals in the Winter Olympic Games, behind Norway, but has topped the medal table only 1 time, in 1932. If all of Germany's and Russia's incarnations are combined, the United States slips to fourth in the all-time Winter Olympic Games table.\n\nThe exclusion of professionals caused several controversies throughout the history of the modern Olympics. The 1912 Olympic pentathlon and decathlon champion Jim Thorpe was stripped of his medals when it was discovered that he had played semi-professional baseball before the Olympics. His medals were posthumously restored by the IOC in 1983 on compassionate grounds.\n\nThe advent of the state-sponsored \"full-time amateur athlete\" of the Eastern Bloc countries eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. The Soviet Union entered teams of athletes who were all nominally students, soldiers, or working in a profession, but all of whom were in reality paid by the state to train on a full-time basis. The situation greatly disadvantaged American athletes, and was a major factor in the decline of American medal hauls in the 1970s and 1980s. As a result, the Olympics shifted away from amateurism, as envisioned by Pierre de Coubertin, to allowing participation of professional athletes, but only in the 1990s, after the collapse of the Soviet Union and its influence within the International Olympic Committee.\n\nMotor sports are widely popular in the United States but Americans generally show little interest in the major international competitions, such as the Formula One Grand Prix series and MotoGP, preferring home-grown racing series. However, some Americans have achieved great success in these international series, such as Mario Andretti and Kenny Roberts.\n\nAmericans, like the rest of the world, initially began using public streets to host automobile races, but these venues were often unsafe to the public as they offered relatively little crowd control. Promoters and drivers in the United States discovered that horse racing tracks could provide better conditions for drivers and spectators than public streets. This, in turn, was succeeded by board track racing (which was short-lived as many of the tracks were highly flammable and difficult to maintain) followed by oval track racing, which remains the dominant form of racing in the United States but is not used in the rest of the world; road racing has generally waned. However, an extensive, albeit illegal street racing culture still persists.\n\nHistorically, open wheel racing was the most popular form of U.S. motorsport nationwide. However, an infamously acrimonious split (often referred to by many as \"The Split\") in 1994 between the primary series, CART (later known as Champ Car), and the owner of the Indianapolis Motor Speedway (the site of the Indy 500), Tony George, led to the formation of the Indy Racing League, now known as INDYCAR, which launched the rival IndyCar Series in 1996. From that point on, the popularity of open wheel racing in the U.S. declined dramatically. The feud was settled in 2008 with an agreement to merge the two series under the IndyCar banner, but enormous damage had already been done to the sport. Post-merger, IndyCar continues to run with slight viewership gains per year. However, as a result, the only post-Split IndyCar race that still enjoys widespread popularity among the general public is the Indianapolis 500.\n\nThe CART-IRL Split coincided with an enormous expansion of stock car racing, governed by NASCAR, from its past as a mostly regional circuit mainly followed in the Southern United States to a truly national sport. NASCAR's audience peaked in the early 2000s, and has declined quite a bit ever since the implementation of the Chase for the Cup in 2004, though it continues to have around 2–4 million viewers per race. Among NASCAR's popular former drivers are Jeff Gordon, Dale Earnhardt, Matt Kenseth, Tony Stewart, Dale Earnhardt Jr., and Richard Petty. Among NASCAR's popular active drivers are Jimmie Johnson, Kurt Busch, Kyle Busch, Chase Elliott, Ryan Blaney, and Kyle Larson. NASCAR's most popular race is the Daytona 500, the opening race of the season, held each year at Daytona Beach, Florida in February.\n\nAmong the better known sports car races in the United States are the 24 Hours of Daytona, 12 Hours of Sebring, and Petit Le Mans, which have featured in the World Sportscar Championship, IMSA GT Championship, Intercontinental Le Mans Cup, FIA World Endurance Championship, American Le Mans Series, Rolex Sports Car Series and currently the United SportsCar Championship.\n\nAnother one of the most popular forms of motorsports in the United States is the indigenous sport of drag racing. The largest drag racing organization is the National Hot Rod Association.\n\nSeveral other motorsports enjoy varying degrees of popularity in the United States: short track motor racing, motocross, monster truck competitions (including the popular Monster Jam circuit), demolition derby, figure 8 racing, mud bogging and tractor pulling.\n\nGolf is played in the United States by about 25 million people. The sport's national governing body, the United States Golf Association (USGA), is jointly responsible with The R&A for setting and administering the rules of golf. The USGA conducts four national championships open to professionals: the U.S. Open, U.S. Women's Open, U.S. Senior Open, and the U.S. Senior Women's Open, with the last of these holding its first edition in 2018. The PGA of America organizes the PGA Championship, Senior PGA Championship and Women's PGA Championship. Three legs of the Grand Slam of Golf are based in the United States: the PGA Championship, U.S. Open and The Masters. (The Open Championship, known in the U.S. as the British Open, is played in the United Kingdom.)\n\nThe PGA Tour is the main professional golf tour in the United States, and the LPGA Tour is the main women's professional tour. Also of note is PGA Tour Champions, where players 50 and older compete. Golf is aired on several television networks, such as Golf Channel, NBC, ESPN, CBS and Fox.\n\nNotable American male golfers include Walter Hagen (11 majors), Ben Hogan, Jack Nicklaus (record 18 major wins), Arnold Palmer, and Tiger Woods (15 major wins). Notable female golfers include Patty Berg (record 15 major wins), Mickey Wright (13 majors), Louise Suggs and Babe Zaharias.\n\nTennis is played in the United States in all five categories (Men's and Ladies' Singles; Men's, Ladies' and Mixed Doubles); however, the most popular are the singles. The pinnacle of the sport in the country is the US Open played in late August at the USTA Billie Jean King National Tennis Center in New York. The Indian Wells Masters, Miami Open and Cincinnati Masters are part of the ATP Tour Masters 1000 and the former WTA Tier I (currently Premier Mandatory and Premier 5).\n\nThe United States has had considerable success in tennis for many years, with players such as Don Budge, Billie Jean King (12 major singles titles), Chris Evert (18 major singles titles), Jimmy Connors (8 major singles titles), John McEnroe (7 major singles titles), Andre Agassi (8 major singles titles) and Pete Sampras (14 major singles titles), and Ricardo Alonso González (14 major singles titles) dominating their sport in the past. More recently, the Williams sisters, Venus Williams (7 major singles titles) and Serena Williams (23 major singles titles), have been a dominant force in the women's game, and the twin brothers Bob and Mike Bryan have claimed almost all significant career records for men's doubles teams.\n\nUSA Track & Field is the governing body for track and field in the United States. It organizes the annual USA Outdoor Track and Field Championships and USA Indoor Track and Field Championships. The Diamond League currently features one round in the United States, the Prefontaine Classic; the series formerly included the Adidas Grand Prix as well. Three of the World Marathon Majors are held in the United States: the Boston Marathon, Chicago Marathon and New York City Marathon. The Freihofer's Run for Women is also an IAAF Road Race Label Event. Amateur organizations such as the National Collegiate Athletic Association and Amateur Athletic Union sanction cross-country running in fall, indoor track and field in winter, and outdoor track and field in spring.\n\nJesse Owens is one of the most notable US athletes. He achieved international fame at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin, Germany, by winning four gold medals: 100 meters, long jump, 200 meters, and 4 × 100-meter relay. He was the most successful athlete at the Games and, as a black man, was credited with \"single-handedly crushing Hitler's myth of Aryan supremacy\", although he \"wasn't invited to the White House to shake hands with the President, either\".\n\nAmericans have frequently set world standards in various disciplines of track and field for both male and female athletes. Tyson Gay and Michael Johnson hold various sprint records for male athletes, while Florence Griffith Joyner set various world sprint records for female athletes. Mary Slaney set many world records for middle-distance disciplines.\n\nA turning point occurred in US track in the running boom of the 1970s. After a series of American successes in various distances from marathoners Frank Shorter and Bill Rodgers as well as middle-distance runners Dave Wottle and Steve Prefontaine, running as an American pastime began to take shape. The U.S. win in the 1976 Olympic men's decathlon, achieved by then-Bruce Jenner, made Jenner a national celebrity. (Many decades later, he transitioned to a woman and changed her a first name of Caitlyn.) High school track in the United States became a unique foundation for creating the United States middle-distance running talent pool, and from 1972 to 1981 an average of 13 high school boys in the United States would run under 4:10 in the mile per year. During this time, several national high school records in the United States were set and remained largely unbroken until the 2000s. The number of high school boys running the mile under 4:10 per year dropped abruptly from 1982, and female participation in many distance events was forbidden by athletic authorities until the 1980s. However a renaissance in high school track developed when Jack Daniels, a former Olympian, published a training manual called \"Daniels' Running Formula\", which became the most widely used distance training protocol among American coaches along with Arthur Lydiard's high-mileage regimen. Carl Lewis is credited with \"normalizing\" the practice of having a lengthy track career as opposed to retiring once reaching the age when it is less realistic of gaining a personal best result. The United States is home to school-sponsored track and field, a tradition in which most schools from middle school through college feature a track and field team. Owing to the number of American athletes who satisfy Olympic norm standards, the US holds national trials to select the best of its top-tier athletes for Olympic competition.\n\nBoxing is an iconic sport in the US and is the focus of the most successful sporting movies both critically and commercially with Oscar winning films like Rocky, Raging Bull and The Fighter. As with many sports it has allowed Black Athletes to breakthrough to be become major figures of US culture, with Joe Louis, Mike Tyson and Muhammad Ali all becoming know on the world stage.\n\nBoxing in the United States became the center of professional boxing in the early 20th century. The National Boxing Association was founded in 1921 and began to sanction title fights. \n\nJoe Louis was an American professional boxer who competed from 1934 to 1951. He reigned as the world heavyweight champion from 1937 to 1949, and is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. In 2005, Louis was ranked as the best heavyweight of all time by the International Boxing Research Organization, and was ranked number one on \"The Ring\" magazine's list of the \"100 greatest punchers of all time\". Louis had the longest single reign as champion of any heavyweight boxer in history.\n\nLouis is widely regarded as the first person of African-American descent to achieve the status of a nationwide hero within the United States, and was also a focal point of anti-Nazi sentiment leading up to and during World War II. He was instrumental in integrating the game of golf, breaking the sport's color barrier in America by appearing under a sponsor's exemption in a PGA event in 1952.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, Muhammad Ali became an iconic figure, transformed the role and image of the African American athlete in America by his embrace of racial pride, and transcended the sport by refusing to serve in the Vietnam War.\n\nIn the 1980s Mike Tyson emerged as a serious contender. Nicknamed \"Iron Mike\", Tyson won the heavyweight unification series to become world heavyweight champion at the age of 20 and the first undisputed champion in a decade. Tyson soon became the most widely known boxer since Ali due to an aura of unrestrained ferocity, such as that exuded by Jack Dempsey or Sonny Liston. His career culminated in Evander Holyfield vs. Mike Tyson II where he famously bit off a piece of Holyfield's ear.\n\nSince the late 1990s boxing has declined in popularity for a myriad of factors such as more sports entertainment options and combat alternatives such as MMA's UFC amongst a younger demographic. Lack of mainstream coverage in newspapers and access on major television networks. Also the lack of a US Heavyweight world champion. \n\nIt was hoped in 2015 that the Floyd Mayweather Jr. vs. Manny Pacquiao fight would re-invigorate interest in the sport in the United States but because the fight was disappointing it was perceived as doing further harm to the image of the sport in the United States.\n\nMixed martial arts in the United States developed in the 1990s, and has achieved popularity in the early 21st century. Many companies promote MMA cards, with the U.S.-based UFC the most dominant.\n\nTraditional wrestling is performed at the scholastic level; high school wrestling is one of the most popular participatory sports for young men in the United States, and college wrestling has a small following.\n\nJudo in the United States is not very popular and is eclipsed by more popular martial arts like karate and taekwondo.\n\nSwimming is a major competitive sport at high school and college level, but receives little mainstream media attention outside of the Olympics.\n\nSurfing in the United States and watersports are popular in the U.S. in coastal areas. California and Hawaii are the most popular locations for surfing. The Association of Surfing Professionals was founded in 1983.\n\nThe most popular team sports in the United States are American football, baseball/softball, basketball, ice hockey, and soccer. All five of these team sports are popular with fans, are widely watched on television, have a fully professional league, are played by millions of Americans, enjoy varsity status at many Division I colleges, and are played in high schools throughout the country.\n\n\nFootball has the most participants of any sport at both high school and college levels, the vast majority of its participants being male.\n\nThe NFL is the preeminent professional football league in the United States. The NFL has 32 franchises divided into two conferences. After a 16-game regular season, each conference sends six teams to the NFL Playoffs, which eventually culminate in the league's championship game, the Super Bowl.\n\nNationwide, the NFL obtains the highest television ratings among major sports. Watching NFL games on television on Sunday afternoons has become a common routine for many Americans during the football season. \nSuper Bowl Sunday is the biggest annual sporting event held in the United States. The Super Bowl itself is always among the highest-rated programs of all-time in the Nielsen ratings.\n\nMillions watch college football throughout the fall months, and some communities, particularly in rural areas, place great emphasis on their local high school football teams. The popularity of college and high school football in areas such as the Southern United States (Southeastern Conference) and the Great Plains (Big 12 Conference and Big Ten Conference) stems largely from the fact that these areas historically generally did not possess markets large enough for a professional team. Nonetheless, college football has a rich history in the United States, predating the NFL by decades, and fans and alumni are generally very passionate about their teams.\n\nDuring football season in the fall, fans have the opportunity to watch high school games on Fridays and Saturdays, college football on Saturdays, and NFL games on Sundays, the usual playing day of the professional teams. However, some colleges play games on Tuesday and Wednesday nights, while the NFL offers weekly games on Monday (since 1970) and Thursday (since 2006). As recently as 2013, one could find a nationally televised professional or college game on television any night between Labor Day and Thanksgiving weekend.\nNotable former NFL players include Roger Staubach, Dick Butkus, Joe Greene, Bart Starr, Johnny Unitas, Walter Payton, Joe Montana, Steve Young, Jerry Rice, Brett Favre, Emmitt Smith, Randy Moss, Ray Lewis, and Peyton Manning. Notable current NFL players include Drew Brees, Tom Brady, Adrian Peterson, J. J. Watt, Russell Wilson, and Aaron Rodgers.\n\nIndoor football or arena football, a form of football played in indoor arenas, has several professional and semi-professional leagues. The Arena Football League was active from 1987 to 2008 and folded in 2009, but several teams from the AFL and its former minor league, af2, relaunched the league in 2010. The AFL folded again in 2019. Most extant indoor leagues date to the mid-2000s and are regional in nature.\n\nDedicated women's football is seldom seen. A few amateur and semi-professional leagues exist, of varying degrees of stability and competition. Football is unique among scholastic sports in the U.S. in that no women's division exists for the sport; women who wish to play football in high school or college must compete directly with men.\n\nBaseball and a variant, softball, are popular participatory sports in the U.S. The highest level of baseball in the U.S. is Major League Baseball. The World Series of Major League Baseball is the culmination of the sport's postseason each October. It is played between the winner of each of the two leagues, the American League and the National League, and the winner is determined through a best-of-seven playoff.\n\nThe New York Yankees are noted for having won more titles than any other US major professional sports franchise. The Yankees' chief rivals, the Boston Red Sox, also enjoy a huge following in Boston and throughout New England. The Philadelphia Phillies of the National League are the oldest continuous, one-name, one-city franchise in all of professional American sports, and enjoy a fanbase renowned for their rabid support of their team throughout Philadelphia and the Delaware Valley, and have famously been dubbed as the \"Meanest Fans in America\". Midwest baseball has also grown exponentially with teams like the Chicago Cubs, St. Louis Cardinals, and Cincinnati Reds. Particularly with Chicago sports fans who avidly follow the Chicago Cubs and the Chicago White Sox despite the comparative lack of success for the teams, with Chicago Cub fans being known throughout the country as one of the best baseball fans in the country, most notably for their passionate loyalty to the team despite their not having won a championship from 1908 to 2016 (108 years) which stands as the longest championship drought in US sports history. The sport has also taken hold of fans on the West Coast, most notably the rivalry between the San Francisco Giants and The Los Angeles Dodgers. Historically, the leagues were much more competitive, and cities such as Boston, Philadelphia and St. Louis had rival teams in both leagues up until the 1950s.\nNotable American baseball players in history include Babe Ruth (714 career home runs), Ty Cobb (career leader in batting average and batting titles), Cy Young, Honus Wagner, Ted Williams (.344 career batting average), Lou Gehrig, Joe DiMaggio, Mickey Mantle (16-time all star), Stan Musial, Willie Mays, Yogi Berra (18-time All-Star), Hank Aaron (career home run leader from 1974 to 2007), Mike Schmidt (548 career home runs, 10 career Gold Gloves), Nolan Ryan (career strikeouts leader), Roger Clemens (7 Cy Young awards), Derek Jeter and Jackie Robinson, who was instrumental in dissolving the color line and allowing African-Americans into the major leagues.\n\nAn extensive minor league baseball system covers most mid-sized cities in the United States. Minor league baseball teams are organized in a six-tier hierarchy, in which the highest teams (AAA) are in major cities that do not have a major league team but often have a major team in another sport, and each level occupies progressively smaller cities. The lowest levels of professional baseball serve primarily as development systems for the sport's most inexperienced prospects, with the absolute bottom, the rookie leagues, occupying the major league squads' spring training complexes.\n\nSome limited independent professional baseball exists, the most prominent being the Atlantic League, which occupies mostly suburban locales that are not eligible for high level minor league teams of their own because they are too close to other major or minor league teams.\n\nOutside the minor leagues are collegiate summer baseball leagues, which occupy towns even smaller than those at the lower end of minor league baseball and typically cannot support professional sports. Summer baseball is an amateur exercise and uses players that choose not to play for payment in order to remain eligible to play college baseball for their respective universities in the spring. At the absolute lowest end of the organized baseball system is senior amateur baseball (also known as Town Team Baseball), which typically plays its games only on weekends and uses rosters composed of local residents.\n\nOf those Americans citing their favorite sport, basketball is ranked second (counting amateur levels) behind football. However, in regards to money the NBA is ranked third in popularity. More Americans play basketball than any other team sport, according to the National Sporting Goods Association, with over 26 million Americans playing basketball.\nBasketball was invented in 1891 by Canadian physical education teacher James Naismith in Springfield, Massachusetts.\nThe National Basketball Association (NBA) is the world's premier men's professional basketball league and one of the major professional sports leagues of North America. It contains 30 teams (29 teams in the U.S. and 1 in Canada) that play an 82-game season from October to June. After the regular season, eight teams from each conference compete in the playoffs for the Larry O'Brien Championship Trophy.\n\nSince the 1992 Summer Olympics, NBA players have represented the United States in international competition and won numerous important tournaments. The Dream Team was the unofficial nickname of the United States men's basketball team that won the gold medal at the 1992 Olympics.\n\nBasketball at both the college and high school levels is popular throughout the country. Every March, a 68-team, six-round, single-elimination tournament (commonly called March Madness) determines the national champions of NCAA Division I men's college basketball.\n\nMost U.S. states also crown state champions among their high schools. Many high school basketball teams have intense local followings, especially in the Midwest and Upper South. Indiana has 10 of the 12 largest high school gyms in the United States, and is famous for its basketball passion, known as Hoosier Hysteria.\n\nNotable NBA players in history include Wilt Chamberlain (4 time MVP), Bill Russell (5 time MVP), Bob Pettit (11 time all NBA team), Bob Cousy (12 time all NBA team), Jerry West (12 time all NBA team), Julius Erving (won MVP awards in both the ABA and NBA), Kareem Abdul-Jabbar (6 time MVP), Magic Johnson (3 time MVP), Larry Bird (3 time MVP), Michael Jordan (6 time finals MVP), John Stockton (#1 in career assists and steals), Karl Malone (14 time all NBA team), Kobe Bryant (NBA's third all-time leading scorer), Tim Duncan (15-time NBA all-star), Shaquille O'Neal (3 time finals MVP) and Jason Kidd (#2 in career assists and steals).\n\nNotable players in the NBA today include LeBron James (4 MVP awards), Stephen Curry (2 time MVP), Dwyane Wade (10 time all-star), and Kevin Durant (MVP, 4 NBA scoring titles). Ever since the 1990s, an increasing number of players born outside the United States have signed with NBA teams, sparking league interest in different parts of the world.\nProfessional basketball is most followed in cities where there are no other sports teams in the four major professional leagues, such as in the case of the Oklahoma City Thunder, the Sacramento Kings, the San Antonio Spurs, the Memphis Grizzlies, or the Portland Trail Blazers. New York City has also had a long historical connection with college and professional basketball, and many basketball legends initially developed their reputations playing in the many playgrounds throughout the city. Madison Square Garden, the home arena of the New York Knicks, is often referred to as the \"Mecca of basketball.\"\n\nMinor league basketball, both official and unofficial, has an extensive presence, given the sport's relative lack of expense to operate a professional team. The NBA has an official minor league, known since 2017 as the NBA G League under a naming rights agreement with Gatorade. The most prominent independent league is BIG3, a three-on-three league featuring former NBA stars that launched in 2017. Several other pro basketball leagues exist but are notorious for their instability and low budget operations.\n\nThe WNBA is the premier women's basketball league in the United States as well as the most stable and sustained women's professional sports league in the nation. Several of the 12 teams are owned by NBA teams. The women's national team has won eight Olympic gold medals and 10 FIBA World Cups.\n\nIce hockey, usually referred to in the U.S. simply as \"hockey\", is another popular sport in the United States. In the U.S. the game is most popular in regions of the country with a cold winter climate, namely the northeast and the upper Midwest. However, since the 1990s, hockey has become increasingly popular in the Sun Belt due in large part to the expansion of the National Hockey League to the southern U.S., coupled with the mass relocation of many residents from northern cities with strong hockey support to these Sun Belt locations.\n\nThe NHL is the major professional hockey league in North America, with 24 U.S.-based teams and 7 Canadian-based teams competing for the Stanley Cup. While NHL stars are still not as readily familiar to the general American public as are stars of the NFL, MLB, and the NBA, average attendance for NHL games in the U.S. has surpassed average NBA attendance in recent seasons, buoyed in part by the NHL Winter Classic being played in large outdoor stadiums.\n\nMinor league professional hockey leagues in the U.S. include the American Hockey League and the ECHL. Additionally, nine U.S.-based teams compete in the three member leagues of the Canadian Hockey League, a \"junior\" league for players aged sixteen to twenty. College hockey has a regional following in the northeastern and upper midwestern United States. It is increasingly being used to develop players for the NHL and other professional leagues (the U.S. has junior leagues, the United States Hockey League and North American Hockey League, but they are more restricted to protect junior players' college eligibility). The Frozen Four is college hockey's national championship. The U.S. now has more youth hockey players than all other countries, excluding Canada, combined. USA Hockey is the official governing body for amateur hockey in the United States. The United States Hockey Hall of Fame is located in Eveleth, Minnesota.\nInternationally, the United States is counted among the Big Six, the group of nations that have historically dominated international ice hockey competition. (The others include Canada, Finland, Sweden, the Czech Republic, and Russia.) One of the nation's greatest ever sporting moments was the \"Miracle on Ice\", which came during the 1980 Winter Olympics when the U.S. hockey team beat the Soviet Union 4–3 in the first game of the medal round before going on to beat Finland to claim the gold medal.\n\nHistorically, the vast majority of NHL players had come from Canada, with a small number of Americans. As late as 1969–70, Canadian players made up 95 percent of the league. During the 1970s and 1980s, European players entered the league, and many players from the former Soviet bloc flocked to the NHL beginning in the 1990s. Today, slightly less than half of NHL players are Canadian, more than 20% are Americans, and virtually all of the remainder are European-trained. (For a more complete discussion, see Origin of NHL players.)\n\nNotable NHL players in history include Wayne Gretzky (leading all-time point scorer and 9 time MVP), Mario Lemieux (3 time MVP), Guy Lafleur (2 time MVP), Gordie Howe (6 time MVP), Nicklas Lidström (7 times NHL's top defenseman), Bobby Hull (3 time MVP and 7 time leading goal scorer, Eddie Shore (4 time MVP), Howie Morenz (3 time MVP), Maurice \"Rocket\" Richard (5 time leading goal scorer), Jean Beliveau (2 time MVP), Bobby Clarke (3 time MVP), and Bobby Orr (8 times NHL's best defenseman). Famous NHL players today include Sidney Crosby and Alexander Ovechkin.\n\nThe National Women's Hockey League, founded in 2015, is the first women's ice hockey league in the country to pay its players and features five teams in the northeast and upper midwest. Three of the five teams (the Buffalo Beauts, Minnesota Whitecaps and Metropolitan Riveters) are either owned or operated by, or affiliated with, their metro area's NHL franchise (the Buffalo Sabres, Minnesota Wild and New Jersey Devils, respectively). At the international level, the United States women's national ice hockey team is one of the two predominant international women's teams in the world, alongside its longtime rival Team Canada.\n\nSoccer has been increasing in popularity in the United States in recent years. Soccer is played by over 13 million people in the U.S., making it the third-most played sport in the U.S., more widely played than ice hockey and football. Most NCAA Division I colleges field both a men's and women's varsity soccer team, and those that field only one team almost invariably field a women's team.\n\nThe United States men's national team and women's national team, as well as a number of national youth teams, represent the United States in international soccer competitions and are governed by the United States Soccer Federation (U.S. Soccer). The U.S. women's team holds the record for most Women's World Cup championships, and is the only team that has never finished worse than third place in a World Cup.\nThe U.S. women beat the Netherlands 2–0 in the 2019 FIFA Women's World Cup final to claim their second consecutive Women's World Cup title, and fourth overall.\nMajor League Soccer is the premier soccer league in the United States. As of its current 2020 season, MLS has 26 clubs (23 from the U.S. and 3 from Canada). The league plans to expand to 28 teams in 2021 with further plans to expand to 30 teams by 2022. The 34-game schedule runs from mid-March to late October, with the playoffs and championship in November. Soccer-specific stadiums continue to be built for MLS teams around the country, both because football stadiums are considered to have excessive capacity, and because teams profit from operating their stadiums. With an average attendance of over 21,000 per game, MLS has the third-highest average attendance of any sports league in the U.S. after the National Football League (NFL) and Major League Baseball (MLB), and is the ninth-highest attended professional soccer league worldwide. Other professional men's soccer leagues in the U.S. include the current second division, the USL Championship (USLC) and the third-level USL League One, which launched in 2019 under the auspices of the USLC's operator, the United Soccer League. Another competition, the second North American Soccer League, had been the second-level league until being demoted in 2018 due to instability, and soon effectively folded. The USL organization now has a formal relationship with MLS, and a number of its teams (both in the Championship and League One) are either owned by or affiliated with MLS sides.\nYounger generations of Americans have strong fan appreciation for the sport, due to factors such as the U.S. hosting of the 1994 FIFA World Cup and the formation of Major League Soccer, as well as increased U.S. television coverage of soccer competitions. Many immigrants living in the United States continue to follow soccer as their favorite team sport. United States will host the 2026 FIFA World Cup sharing with Canada and Mexico.\n\nWomen's professional soccer in the United States has not seen sustained success. Following the demise of two professional leagues in the early 21st century, the Women's United Soccer Association (1999–2001) and Women's Professional Soccer (2009–2011), U.S. Soccer established a new National Women's Soccer League in 2013. The NWSL has now survived longer than both of its two professional predecessors combined. Of its current nine teams, six share ownership with professional men's clubs—four are wholly owned by MLS team owners, one is wholly owned by a USLC side, and another is in the process of being purchased by a French Ligue 1 side. A tenth team set to start play in 2021 is also owned by a USLC side. However, at the lower levels of the salary scale, the NWSL is effectively semi-professional.\n\nMany notable international soccer players played in the U.S. in the original North American Soccer League, usually at the end of their playing careers—including Pelé, Eusébio, George Best, Franz Beckenbauer, and Johan Cruyff—or in MLS—including Roberto Donadoni, Lothar Matthäus, David Beckham, Thierry Henry, Kaká, David Villa, Wayne Rooney, and Zlatan Ibrahimović. The best American soccer players enter the U.S. Soccer Hall of Fame.\n\nThe following table shows additional sports that are played by over 500,000 people in the United States.\n\n\nLacrosse is a team sport that is believed to have originated with the Iroquois and the Lenape. The sport is most popular in the East Coast area from Maryland to New York. While its roots remain east, lacrosse is currently the fastest growing sport in the nation. The National Lacrosse League is the national box league, while the Premier Lacrosse League is the professional Field Lacrosse league. Major League Lacrosse is a semi-professional Field Lacrosse league also operating nationally.\n\nVolleyball is also a notable sport in the United States, especially at the college and university levels. Unlike most Olympic sports which are sponsored widely at the collegiate level for both sexes, the support for college volleyball is dramatically skewed in favor of the women's game. In the 2011–12 school year, over 300 schools in NCAA Division I alone (the highest of three NCAA tiers) sponsored women's volleyball at the varsity level, while fewer than 100 schools in all three NCAA divisions combined sponsored varsity men's volleyball, with only 23 of them in Division I. This is partially due to Title IX; female-oriented sports such as volleyball help balance a college's athletic opportunities for women with those for men. More recently, men's volleyball has experienced explosive growth at the non-scholarship NCAA Division III level; as of 2019, over 100 schools sponsor the sport at that level.\n\nThe men's national team has won three gold medals at the Olympic Games, one FIVB World Championship, two FIVB Volleyball World Cup, and one FIVB World League. Meanwhile, the women's national team has won the one FIVB World Championship and six editions of the FIVB World Grand Prix.\n\nBeach volleyball has increasingly become popular in the United States, in part due to media exposure during the Olympic Games.\n\nRugby union is played professionally, recreationally and in colleges, though it is not governed by the NCAA (see college rugby). An estimated 1.2 million people in the United States play rugby. The U.S. national team has competed at the Rugby World Cup. In rugby sevens, the men's national team is one of 15 \"core teams\" that participate in every event of the annual World Rugby Sevens Series, and the women's national team is one of 11 core teams in the Women's Sevens Series. The professional domestic club competition PRO Rugby began play in April 2016, but lasted only one season; a second attempt at a professional league, Major League Rugby, launched in 2018.\nRugby union participation in the U.S. has grown significantly in recent years, growing by 350% between 2004 and 2011. A 2010 survey by the National Sporting Goods Manufacturers Association ranked rugby union as the fastest-growing sport in the U.S. The sports profile in the U.S. has received a tremendous boost from the IOC's announcement in 2009 that rugby union (in its seven-a-side variant) would return to the Olympics in 2016. Since the Olympic announcement, rugby union events such as the Collegiate Rugby Championship, the USA Sevens, and the Rugby World Cup have been broadcast on network TV. The USA Sevens, held every year in February or March as part of the World Rugby Sevens Series, has regularly drawn more than 60,000 fans to Sam Boyd Stadium in Las Vegas, though the tournament will move to the Los Angeles area for at least its 2020 edition. The U.S. also hosts an event in the Women's Sevens Series. It had been held alongside the USA Sevens in the 2016–17 season, but was not held in 2017–18 (when the Rugby World Cup Sevens for both men and women was held in San Francisco). The USA Women's Sevens returned in 2018, after the World Cup Sevens, but is now a standalone event held in the Denver area that serves as the Women's World Series opener.\n\nRugby football formed the basis of modern American football; the two sports were nearly identical in the late 19th century but diverged into distinct, incompatible codes by the start of the 20th century.\n\nIn 2006 it was estimated that 30,000 people in the United States play or watch cricket annually. By 2017, this figure had risen to 200,000 people playing cricket in 6,000 teams.\nCricket in the United States is not as popular as baseball and is not as popular among as large a fraction of the population as it is\nwithin either the Commonwealth nations or the other ICC full member (or Test cricket) nations. There are at least two historical reasons for the relative obscurity of cricket within\nthe United States. One reason was the 19th-century-rise of the summer time bat and ball sport now called baseball, which seems to have displaced cricket as a popular pastime. Another reason was that in 1909 when the ICC was originally organized as the\nImperial Cricket Conference it was open only to Commonwealth nations and thereby excluded the US from participating in the sport at the highest level.\n\nNevertheless, in 1965 the US was admitted to the renamed ICC as an associate member and the sport grew in popularity in the second half of the 20th century. An oft mentioned reason for the growing popularity of cricket is the growing population of immigrants to the US who come from cricket playing nations.\n\nWith the launching of the United States Youth Cricket Association in 2010, a more focused effort to bring the game to American schools was begun, with the intention of broadening cricket's fan base beyond expatriates and their children.\n\nESPN has been stepping up its coverage of cricket in recent years, buying the cricket website Cricinfo in 2007, and broadcasting the final of the 2014 ICC World Twenty20 competition, the 2014 Indian Premier League, English County Championship games, and international Test cricket.\n\nUltimate is a team sport played with a flying disc. The object of the game is to score points by passing the disc to members of your own team until you have completed a pass to a team member in the opposing team's end zone. Over 5.1 million people play some form of organized ultimate in the US.\n\nAlternative sports, using the flying disc, began in the mid-sixties, when numbers of young people looked for alternative recreational activities, including throwing a Frisbee. What started with a few players experimenting with a Frisbee later would become known as playing disc freestyle. Organized disc sports in the 1970s began with a few tournaments, and professionals using Frisbee show tours to perform at universities, fairs and sporting events. Disc sports such as disc freestyle, disc dog (with a human handler throwing discs for a dog to catch), double disc court, disc guts, disc ultimate, and disc golf became this sport's first events. More-proprietary disc games include KanJam, akin to quoits, invented in Buffalo, New York in the 1980s.\n\nBeginning in 1974, the International Frisbee Disc Association became the regulatory organization for all of these sports. Led from 1975–1982 by Dan \"Stork\" Roddick, who also served as sports-marketing head for Wham-O, the IFA created an annual tournament at the Rose Bowl called the World Frisbee Championship, which drew over 50,000 fans and live TV coverage. This tournament served as a focal point for the more-developed game of Disc guts, invented in the 1950s, and the emerging popularity freestyle competition (1974) and disc golf (standardized in 1976 by the Professional Disc Golf Association).\n\nAround the same time, high school students at Columbia HS in Maplewood NJ invented a disc game in 1968 that they called Ultimate. Among the three credited with its invention was future hollywood producer Joel Silver. Spread to mostly East Coast colleges by Columbia HS graduates in the early 1970s, and developed nearly in parallel in Southern California, the game began to have unofficial championships played in 1975. Loosely organized in its early years, Ultimate developed as an organized sport with the 1979 creation of the Ultimate Players Association. The sport grew rapidly throughout the country, establishing a Women's division in 1981, splitting its College division from the Club (adult) division in 1984, a Mixed Club division in 1997, and Youth championships from 1998. In 2010, the UPA re-branded as USA Ultimate, to be more in-line with other sports governing bodies.\n\nAs club, college and youth play continued to expand rapidly, more-entrepreneurial enthusiasts looked to turn player interest into spectator dollars. In 2012, the American Ultimate Disc League became the first professional Ultimate league, followed the next year by Major League Ultimate. The two ran in parallel through 2016, when MLU folded; AUDL has sustained play through 2019 and expanded from 8 teams in 2012 to 21 teams in 2019. Although the AUDL's popularity continues to grow, the USA Ultimate Club Division is still viewed as the sport's highest level of play.\n\nIn 2015, the International Olympic Committee granted full recognition to the World Flying Disc Federation for flying disc sports including Ultimate.\n\nThe development of snowboarding was inspired by skateboarding, sledding, surfing and skiing. It was developed in the United States in the 1960s, became a Winter Olympic Sport at Nagano in 1998 and first featured in the Winter Paralympics at Sochi in 2014.\n\nAustralian rules football in the United States was first played in the country in 1996. The United States Australian Football League is the governing body for the sport in the U.S, with various clubs and leagues around the country. The National Championships are held annually. The United States men's national Australian rules football team and the women's national team both regularly play international matches, and play in the Australian Football International Cup, an international tournament. The sport also benefits from an active fan based organization, the Australian Football Association of North America.\n\nBandy is only played in Minnesota. The national team regularly plays in Division A of the Bandy World Championships. In terms of licensed athletes, it is the second biggest winter sport in the world.\n\nCricket in the United States is not a popular sport, but has a niche market with limited inroads, mainly in immigrant communities. The United States of America Cricket Association governs cricket in the United States. \nHistorically, cricket used to be the most popular sport in America during the 18th and early 19th centuries, but declined as baseball overtook cricket. The first intercollegiate tournament in America was the first annual Canada vs. U.S. cricket match, played since 1844, when it was attended by 10,000 spectators in New York., and the annual match is the oldest international sporting event in the modern world.\nThe United States national cricket team plays in World Cricket League Division IV, the ICC Americas Championship and qualified for ICC Intercontinental Cup.\n\nCurling is popular in northern states, possibly because of climate, proximity to Canada, or Scandinavian heritage. The national popularity of curling is growing after significant media coverage of the sport in the 2006 and 2010 Winter Olympics.\n\nGaelic football and hurling are governed by North American GAA and New York GAA. They do not have a high profile, but are developing sports, with New York fielding a representative team in the All-Ireland Senior Football Championship.\n\nField hockey is played in the United States predominantly by women. It is played widely at numerous NCAA colleges, where it is used as a sport to offset Title IX regulations assuring equal opportunities for men and women in sports (it thus offsets male-dominated sports such as college football).\n\nHandball, a common sport in European countries, is seldom seen in the United States. The sport is mostly played in the country on the amateur level. Handball is played in the Summer Olympics, but is not sanctioned by the NCAA; all college and university teams play as club teams. The sport's governing body is USA Team Handball.\n\nInline hockey was invented by Americans as a way to play the sport in all climates. The PIHA is the league with the largest number of professional teams in the nation. Street hockey is a non-standard version of inline hockey played by amateurs in informal games.\n\nRugby league in the United States is played by the USA Rugby League (USARL) is a 14 team semi-professional rugby league football competition based on the East Coast of the United States. The league was founded in 2011 by clubs that had broken with the established American National Rugby League (AMNRL), plus expansion franchises. The USARL began its inaugural season in 2011. In November 2014, the USARL were granted Affiliate membership of the RLIF and RLEF and are now the official governing body for the sport in the United States. The United States national rugby league team played in their first World Cup in 2013 losing to Australia in the quarter finals 62–0. The United States, along with Canada, will host the 2025 Rugby League World Cup.\n\nWater polo does not have a professional competition in the U.S., so the highest level of competitive play is at the college level and in the Olympics. The NCAA sanctions water polo as a varsity sport for both men and women, and is popular in the U.S. along the west coast, and parts of the east coast. However, no team outside of California has ever reached the finals of the NCAA Division I men's water polo championship.\n\neSports, the treatment of multiplayer video game competition as a sport, is a relatively new development made possible by the increasing availability of broadband Internet access. esports is now a multimillion-dollar business in the U.S., with implications for game developers, players, leagues, teams, live venues, streaming platforms, TV networks, audiences and marketers. College esports in the United States began around 2009. Various schools began forming esports clubs to play any number of video games in collegiate tournaments. In 2019 there were at least over 130 college varsity programs. The Overwatch League is a professional esports league for the video game Overwatch, produced by its developer Blizzard Entertainment.\n\nFor the most part, unlike sports in Europe and other parts of the world, there is no system of promotion and relegation in American professional sports. Major sports leagues operate as associations of franchises. The same 30–32 teams play in the league each year unless they move to another city or the league chooses to expand with new franchises.\n\nAll American sports leagues use the same type of schedule. After the regular season, the 10–16 teams with the best records enter a playoff tournament leading to a championship series or game. American sports, except for soccer, have no equivalent to the cup competitions that run concurrently with leagues in European sports. Even in the case of soccer, the cup competition, the Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup, draws considerably less attention than the regular season. Also, the only top-level U.S. professional teams that play teams from other organizations in meaningful games are those in MLS. Since the 2012 season, all U.S.-based MLS teams have automatically qualified for the U.S. Open Cup, in which they compete against teams from lower-level U.S. leagues. In addition, three or four U.S.-based MLS teams (depending on the results of the U.S. Open Cup) qualify to play clubs from countries outside the U.S. and Canada in the CONCACAF Champions League. NBA teams have played European teams in preseason exhibitions on a semi-regular basis, and recent MLS All-Star Games have pitted top players from the league against major European soccer teams, such as members of the Premier League.\n\nInternational competition is not as important in American sports as it is in the sporting culture of most other countries, although Olympic ice hockey and basketball tournaments do generate attention. The first international baseball tournament with top-level players, the World Baseball Classic, also generated some positive reviews after its inaugural tournament in 2006.\n\nThe major professional sports leagues operate drafts once a year, in which each league's teams selected eligible prospects. Eligibility differs from league to league. Baseball and ice hockey operate minor league systems for players who have finished education but are not ready or good enough for the major leagues. The NBA also has a development league for players who are not ready to play at the top level.\n\nThe extent to which sports are associated with secondary and tertiary education in the United States is rare among nations. Millions of students participate in athletics programs operated by high schools and colleges. Student-athletes often receive scholarships to colleges in recognition of their athletic potential. Currently, the largest governing body of collegiate sports is the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA).\nEspecially in football and basketball, college sports are followed in numbers equaling those of professional sports. College football games can draw over 100,000 spectators. For upper-tier institutions, sports are a significant source of revenue; for less prominent teams, maintaining a high-level team is a major expense. To ensure some semblance of competitive balance, the NCAA divides its institutions into three divisions (four in football), sorted by the number of athletic scholarships each school is willing to offer.\n\nThe most practiced college sports, measured by NCAA reporting on varsity team participation, are: (1) football (64,000), (2) baseball/softball (47,000), (3) track and field (46,000), (4) soccer (43,000), (5) basketball (32,000), (6) cross-country running (25,000), and (7) swimming/diving (20,000). The most popular sport among female athletes is soccer, followed closely by track and field.\n\nCommunity college athletics are governed separately by the National Junior College Athletic Association (NJCAA).\n\nMost public high schools are members of their respective state athletic association, and those associations are members of the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS). Some states have separate associations for public and non-public high schools.\n\nThe 2018–19 school year was the first in 30 years to see a decrease in high school sports participation. Increases through the previous decades had been largely driven by growth in girls' participation. The high school sports with the highest number of participants for 2018–19 are:\n\n\n\nPopular high school sports in various regions of the U.S. include the Texas High School football championships, the Indiana basketball championships, and ice hockey in Minnesota.\nThe Minnesota State High School Hockey Tournament is the largest high school sporting event in the country, with average attendance to the top tier, or \"AA\", games over 18,000.\n\nThe Amateur Athletic Union claims to have over 670,000 participants and over 100,000 volunteers.. The AAU has existed since 1888, and has been influential in amateur sports for that same time span.\n\nIn the 1970s, the AAU received growing criticism. Many claimed that its regulatory framework was outdated. Women were banned from participating in certain competitions and some runners were locked out. There were also problems with sporting goods that did not meet the standards of the AAU. During this time, the Amateur Sports Act of 1978 organized the United States Olympic Committee and saw the re-establishment of state-supported independent associations for the Olympic sports, referred to as national governing bodies. As a result, the AAU lost its influence and importance in international sports, and focused on the support and promotion of predominantly youthful athletes, as well as on the organization of national sports events.\n\nNo American government agency is charged with overseeing sports. However, the President's Council on Physical Fitness and Sports advises the President through the Secretary of Health and Human Services about physical activity, fitness, and sports, and recommends programs to promote regular physical activity for the health of all Americans. The U.S. Congress has chartered the United States Olympic Committee to govern American participation in the Olympic Movement and promote Olympic sports. Congress has also involved itself in several aspects of sports, notably gender equity in college athletics, illegal drugs in pro sports, sports broadcasting and the application of antitrust law to sports leagues.\n\nIndividual states may also have athletic commissions, which primarily govern individual sports such as boxing, kickboxing and mixed martial arts. Notable state athletic commissions are the Nevada Athletic Commission, California State Athletic Commission, New York State Athletic Commission and New Jersey State Athletic Control Board. Although these commissions only have jurisdiction over their own states, the Full Faith and Credit Clause of the U.S. Constitution is often interpreted as forcing all other states to recognize any state athletic commission's rulings regarding an athlete's fitness for participating in a sport.\n\nSports have been a major part of American broadcasting since the early days of radio. Today, television networks and radio networks pay millions (sometimes billions) of dollars for the rights to broadcast sporting events. Contracts between leagues and broadcasters stipulate how often games must be interrupted for commercials. Because of all of the advertisements, broadcasting contracts are very lucrative and account for the biggest chunk of major professional teams' revenues. Broadcasters also covet the television contracts for the major sports leagues (especially in the case of the NFL) in order to amplify their ability to promote their programming to the audience, especially young and middle-aged adult males.\nThe advent of cable and satellite television has greatly expanded sports offerings on American TV. ESPN, the first all-sports cable network in the U.S., went on the air in 1979. It has been followed by several sister networks and competitors. Some sports television networks are national, such as CBS Sports Network, Fox Sports 1 and NBC Sports Network, whereas others are regional, such as NBC Sports Regional Networks, Fox Sports Networks and Spectrum Sports. General entertainment channels like TBS, TNT, and USA Network also air sports events.\nSome sports leagues have their own sports networks, such as NFL Network, MLB Network, NBA TV, NHL Network, Big Ten Network, Pac-12 Network and SEC Network. Some sports teams run their own television networks as well.\n\nSports are also widely broadcast at the local level, ranging from college and professional sports down to (on some smaller stations) recreational and youth leagues. Internet radio has allowed these broadcasts to reach a worldwide audience.\n\nIn the broadest definition of sports—physical recreation of all sorts—the four most popular sports among the general population of the United States are exercise walking (90 million), exercising with equipment (53 million), swimming (52 million) and camping (47 million). The most popular competitive sport (and fifth most popular recreational sport) is bowling (43 million). Other most popular sports are fishing (35 million), bicycling (37 million), weightlifting (33 million), aerobics (30 million), and hiking (28 million).\n\nAccording to a January 2018 Poll by Gallup, 37% of Americans consider football their favorite spectator sport, while 11% prefer basketball, 9% baseball, and 7% soccer. There is some variation by viewer demographics. Men, show a stronger preference for football than women, conservatives a stronger preference than liberals, and those over 35 a stronger preference than those under 35. In all groups, however, football is still the most popular. Basketball and soccer are more popular among liberals than conservatives.\n\nThe following table shows the professional sports leagues, which average over 15,000 fans per game and that have a national TV contract that pays rights fees.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257796", "title": "Pantelimon, Ilfov", "text": "Pantelimon, Ilfov\n\nPantelimon () is a city in Ilfov County, Muntenia, Romania. The town — bordered by the Romanian capital, Bucharest, to the west — has an area of 134.83 km². Its name is derived from the Greek saint Panteleimon.\n\nThe Pantelimon Local Council has 17 councillors. The council currently having the following party composition, with no party having an outright majority:\n\nThe town's population, according to the 2011 census, was 23,309 people, an increase from 16,019 persons in the 2002 census. In 2011, 93.2% of the population were ethnic Romanians, 5.9% Roma, and 0.9% others.\n\nPantelimon is linked with Bucharest by small transport companies that operate minibuses from the town to several locations in Eastern Bucharest, where passengers can switch to RATB or the Bucharest metro. Pantelimon metro station, the eastern starting point of the Bucharest Metro's M1 line, is located in the eastern extremity of Bucharest, near the Pantelimon town.\n\nThere is a beer factory in Pantelimon, owned by the United Romanian Breweries — producer of the Carlsberg and Tuborg beer brands.\n"}
{"id": "2257802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257802", "title": "Modified vaccinia Ankara", "text": "Modified vaccinia Ankara\n\nThe Modified Vaccinia Ankara (MVA) is an attenuated vaccine of a poxvirus. It was licensed and used as a poxvirus vaccine in Bavaria and is a vector for vaccination against non-poxvirus diseases.\n\nVaccinia viruses re-engineered to express foreign genes are vectors for production of recombinant proteins, the most common being a vaccine delivery system for antigens. Concerns about the safety of the vaccinia virus have been addressed by the development of vectors based on attenuated vaccinia viruses. One of them, the \"Modified Vaccinia Ankara\" (\"MVA\"') virus, is a highly attenuated strain of vaccinia virus that was developed towards the end of the campaign for the eradication of smallpox by Anton Mayr in Germany. Produced by more than 500 passages of vaccinia virus in chicken cells (\"chicken embryo fibroblast\", MVA has lost about 10% of the vaccinia genome and with it the ability to replicate efficiently in primate cells. A recombinant MVA-based vector for vaccination with different fluorescent reporter genes was developed by Antonio Siccardi, which indicate the progress of genetic recombination with the transgene of an antigen (green, colorless, red).\n\nMVA is widely considered as the vaccinia virus strain of choice for clinical investigation because of its high safety profile. MVA has been administered to numerous animal species including monkeys, mice, swine, sheep, cattle, horses, and elephants, with no local or systemic adverse effects. Over 120,000 humans have been safely and successfully vaccinated against smallpox with MVA by intradermal, subcutaneous, or intramuscular injections.\n\nCurrently, the use of MVA as a recombinant HIV vaccine (MVA-B) is being tested in approximately 300 volunteers in several Phase I studies conducted by the International AIDS Vaccine Initiative. Studies in mice and nonhuman primates have further demonstrated the safety of MVA under conditions of immune suppression. Compared to replicating vaccinia viruses, MVA provides similar or higher levels of recombinant gene expression even in non-permissive cells.\n\nRecently, vaccination with smallpox vaccine (a vaccinia virus related to MVA) has been shown, on rare occasions, to cause heart problems in people who received it: heart inflammation (myocarditis), inflammation of the membrane covering the heart (pericarditis), and a combination of these two problems (myopericarditis). A few cases of cardiac chest pain (angina) and heart attack have also been reported following smallpox vaccination. It is not known at this time if smallpox vaccination causes angina or heart attacks. MVA is an attenuated vaccinia virus and does not replicate in the human body as efficiently as vaccinia. However, whether or not MVA can induce the same side effects as vaccinia is not known at this time.\n\nIn animal models, MVA vaccines have been found to be immunogenic and protective against various infectious agents including immunodeficiency viruses, influenza, parainfluenza, measles virus, flaviviruses, tuberculosis, Plasmodium parasites and smallpox as well as certain cancers.\n\nA considerable amount of data on MVA vector vaccines has been accumulated from studies in macaques. In addition, combinations of viral vector vaccines have been employed successfully. Studies in mice show that fowlpox-based and MVA-based vaccines used in combination induce immunity and protection against challenge with Plasmodium parasites. In macaques, DNA-based HIV vaccines can be effectively boosted with recombinant MVA-based vaccines expressing HIV antigens.\n\nImmunization regimens incorporating priming with DNA vaccine and boosting with recombinant MVA-based vaccine have been found to provide some protection in non-human primates following challenge with an immunodeficiency virus. While vaccination did not prevent infection in these studies, it did result in lower viral load setpoints, increased CD4 counts, and reduced morbidity and mortality in vaccinated animals, compared to controls.\n"}
{"id": "2257804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257804", "title": "William Beardsley (settler)", "text": "William Beardsley (settler)\n\nWilliam Beardsley (1605–1661) was one of the first settlers of Stratford, Connecticut (abt. 1635).\n\nAccording to long-standing family tradition, William Beardsley was born in 1605 in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire; England, but documentation to support this tradition is lacking. Orcutt in his \"History of Stratford\" and other authorities state that he emigrated with Rev. Adam Blakeman from St. Albans, Hertfordshire, England. Isaac Haight Beardsley conducted research on the English origins of the Beardsley line in 1891, and he reported after a thorough search of the extant records that no evidence to support the Stratford-on-Avon origins could be found. Isaac H. Beardsley did, however, locate information in the Abbey records of St. Albans and concluded that William Beardsley (born 1605) and Thomas Beardsley (born 1603, another early settler of Stratford, Connecticut) were possibly sons of Hugh Bearsley, who appears in the baptismal records of St. Albans on 31 Oct 1582 and grandsons of Thomas Bearsley and Jane Upton, who were married at St. Albans on 16 Jul 1581. This evidence has evidently not been convincing to some family historians, since the traditional Stratford-on-Avon origins were again reported in a work by Nellie Beardsley Holt in 1951. Holt also reported that in 1631, William Beardsley married Mary Harvie in St. Mary's church, and in 1633, their first son John was baptized there. More research into primary sources is still needed to resolve the differing accounts.\n\nModern discoveries, supported by LDS Church genealogical researchers, show that William Beardsley was originally from Ilkeston, Derbyshire. Many persons of the Beardsley surname live in that area today.\n\nIn 1635, Beardsley and his wife and three children boarded the ship \"Planter\" with 116 other passengers and sailed to Massachusetts. In December 1636, Beardsley took the oath of a freeman of Massachusetts.\n\nIn 1639, Beardsley and his wife left Boston to become one of the first settler families in the Pequonnocke Plantation, which later became known as Stratford, Connecticut. Beardsley was active in the affairs of the settlement and served as Deputy to the General Court at Hartford from 1645 to 1659, Judge, as well as being one of the founders of the First Congregational Church of Stratford, Connecticut.\n\nAfter arriving in America, from 1636-1646 Beardsley and his wife had six additional children.\n\nBeardsley died in Stratford, Connecticut in 1661 and is buried in Union Cemetery with his wife.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257809", "title": "Judas Kiss (1998 film)", "text": "Judas Kiss (1998 film)\n\nJudas Kiss is a 1998 American crime thriller film that starred Alan Rickman, Emma Thompson, Roscoe Lee Browne, Carla Gugino, Simon Baker-Denny, Gil Bellows, Richard Riehle, and Til Schweiger. It was directed by Sebastian Gutierrez.\n\nThe film premiered at the 1998 Toronto International Film Festival and won the Critics Award at the 1999 Cognac Festival du Film Policier.\n\nCoco Chavez and Junior Armstrong are two small-time criminals who make money at blackmail and sex scams. They attempt to break into the big time by kidnapping a computer genius and holding him for a $4 million ransom. To help them, they enlist Lizard Browning and Ruben Rubenbauer who provide firepower and technology. However, during the kidnapping, they accidentally kill the young wife of Louisiana Senator Hornbeck.\n\nRacked by guilt, Coco and the group are pursued by veteran Federal Bureau of Investigation agent Sadie Hawkins and grizzled New Orleans detective David Friedman. The two combative officers enjoy showing up one another during their investigation, as well as commiserate about their jobs and personal foibles. Coco and Junior also have to deal with henchmen hired by the Senator to get revenge on the group.\n\nAs the plot unfolds, it appears that the murder may not have been entirely accidental. Detective Friedman's suspicions are raised when Senator Hornbeck threatens the detectives instead of offering assistance. On the cusp of getting away with a nearly flawless crime, the group faces betrayal from within.\n\n\nThe movie was produced by Bandeira Entertainment. The movie was filmed in Los Angeles, California and on location in New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film holds an approval rating of 43% based on 7 reviews, with an average rating of 5.92/10.\n\nMichael Dequina from \"Movie Report.com\" said, \"The usual set of twists and doublecrosses ensue, with nothing all-too-surprising (or funny; the attempts at humor mostly fall flat) to distinguish it from the winding paths of other similar films.\"\n\n\n\nThe movie was distributed to home video on both VHS and DVD formats on September 21, 1999 by Sony Pictures. Both home video formats have a runtime of 98 minutes.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257812", "title": "Oldland Common", "text": "Oldland Common\n\nOldland Common is a village in the far south region of South Gloucestershire, England, on the outskirts of Bristol. It is in the civil parish of Bitton, approximately 8 miles between the centres of cities Bristol and Bath. \n\nOldland Common is the birthplace of the famous astronomer Sir Bernard Lovell, and is home to the Sir Bernard Lovell secondary school, a designated language college opened by Lovell himself in 1972, once attended by England cricketer Marcus Trescothick and Millwall FC manager, and former Bristol Rovers FC player, Ian Holloway. Other schools in the village are St. Anne's Church of England Primary School (built in 1837 & initially called Oldland National School) and Redfield Edge Primary School.\n\nThe village lies on the Avon Valley Railway, a three-mile long heritage railway, where it is served by Oldland Common railway station. It is part of the civil parish of Bitton which has a population of approx. 9,000 (according to the 2011 Census). The village is adjacent to the villages of Bitton and Bridgeyate.\n\nOldland Common was first mentioned in the \"Domesday Book\" of 1086. As was common in the surrounding area, the village was involved in the coal mining industry and had its own pit on Cowhorn Hill during the 1800s.\n\nThe largest place of worship in the village is St Anne's Church of England church. Its grounds contain a separate social area, the Orchard Rooms. Other local churches include the Oldland Methodist Church (shown in photograph above) and the small United Reformed Church.\n\nThe village is home to the 54th Kingswood (St Anne's) Scout Group.\n\nOn 30 October 2012, mobile phone operator EE launched their 4G signal for superfast internet in Bristol, meaning the village of Oldland Common is now connected to 4G. The 4G signal mast is situated at Redfield Hill in the village. 4G from Three, Vodafone and O2 is also now available in Oldland Common.\n\nOldland Common is served by bus company First West of England, which operates the following services through the village; \n\nThe nearest rail station is Keynsham railway station, which is 2.5 miles from the village. Direct services are available to Bath Spa railway station, allowing connections to the South and London, and Bristol Temple Meads railway station, allowing connections to the South West, London, the South Coast, Wales, the Midlands, Northern England, and Scotland.\n\nAn electoral ward in the name ‘Bitton and Oldland common’ exists. This stretches north from Oldland Common to Bitton and had a population of 7685 at the time of the 2011 census.\n\nOldland is home to the non-League football clubs Oldland Abbotonians F.C. in the Western Football League and Crown & Horseshoe F.C. in the Bath and District League.\n\nThe village has two public houses: \"The Crown and Horseshoe\", and \"The Dolphin\". The village previously had three, the third being \"The Cherry Tree\", which is now being converted into flats. Oldland Common also has a Village Club.\n\nShops in Oldland Common include; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257818", "title": "Live at Max's Kansas City", "text": "Live at Max's Kansas City\n\nLive at Max's Kansas City is a live album by the Velvet Underground recorded at the famous nightclub and restaurant at 213 Park Avenue South in New York City. It was originally released on May 30, 1972, by Cotillion, a subsidiary label of Atlantic Records.\n\nThe Velvet Underground signed a two-album deal with Atlantic in early 1970 and released their fourth studio album, \"Loaded\", in November 1970. By the time of its release, singer/guitarist/main songwriter Lou Reed had left. The rest of the band stayed together, with bassist Doug Yule moving to vocals and guitar and Walter Powers being drafted in to play bass.\n\nThis line-up did a tour of the United States and Canada promoting \"Loaded\". As the band still had a contract for another album, they wrote and played new songs eventually to be included on it. Atlantic had lost faith in the band's commercial prospects and, wanting to cut their losses after the disappointing chart showings of \"Loaded\", decided to release an archive live recording instead.\n\nThe tapes that would later become \"Live at Max's Kansas City\" were recorded on August 23, 1970, by Andy Warhol associate Brigid Polk on a portable cassette recorder. While they were recording \"Loaded\", the Velvet Underground held a nine-week engagement (June 24 – August 28, 1970) at New York City nightclub Max's Kansas City, playing two sets a night. Polk recorded almost everything happening around her at the time, and this happened to include her attendance of the last concert that Lou Reed played with the Velvet Underground. She recorded both the early and the late set. Later that year, Atlantic A&R employee Danny Fields heard the tapes and submitted them to his superiors, who accepted the recordings and in 1972 decided to make an album out of them. The line-up at the concerts consisted of Reed, Yule, lead guitarist Sterling Morrison and drummer Billy Yule, the younger brother of Doug Yule; regular drummer Maureen Tucker temporarily left the group several months earlier when she became pregnant with her first child, Kerry \"Trucker\" Tucker.\n\nOriginally, \"Live at Max's Kansas City\" was a single album distillation of both sets re-sequenced and edited by Lou Reed and Atlantic staff producer Geoff Haslam to reflect the band's loud and quiet sides, respectively. On August 3, 2004, Warner Music re-issue label Rhino Records released a two-CD Deluxe Edition that contains both sets in their entirety in their original running order. The songs were recorded on a mono recorder using a simple ferro musicassette in a small venue, resulting in tape hiss and an audience often drowning out the quieter bits of music.\n\nAuthor Jim Carroll can be heard speaking on the album, ordering drinks and inquiring about drugs between songs as he was the one holding the microphone.\n\nAll tracks written by Lou Reed except as indicated.\n\nAll tracks written by Lou Reed except as indicated.\n\nAll tracks written by Lou Reed except as indicated.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257820", "title": "Dean Delany", "text": "Dean Delany\n\nDean Delany (born 15 September 1980) is an Irish former footballer who played as a goalkeeper.\n\nBeginning his career in England with Everton in 1997, three years later he moved on to Port Vale, having never turned out for the first team at Everton despite winning caps for the Republic of Ireland under-21s and lifting the FA Youth Cup. He spent four years with Vale, and did make 39 first team appearances, though was never their first choice keeper. He also spent time on loan at Macclesfield Town, but never made it onto the field. He returned to Ireland in 2004 to sign a contract with Shelbourne, who he helped to the League of Ireland title in 2006. He spent 2007 with Waterford United, though returned to Shelbourne the following year. The \"Shels\" had been demoted in his absence, and he was the goalkeeper in the 2011 season, as they won promotion back into the top-flight. He joined Bohemians in time for the 2013 season, before returning to Shelbourne again in 2017 and helping the club to win promotion as League of Ireland First Division champions in 2019. He was named on the PFAI First Division Team of the Year for the 2009 and 2018 seasons.\n\nAfter securing a contract with English Premier League side Everton as a teenager in 1997, his first year saw him winning the FA Youth Cup. Delany only made one appearance for the \"Toffees\", and was unable to break into the first team. In the summer of 2000 he moved to the Second Division side Port Vale.\n\nDuring his four seasons with Port Vale he made 39 appearances in all competitions and was an unused substitute in the 2001 League Trophy final against Brentford at the Millennium Stadium. He also won the Staffordshire Senior Cup in 2001. He also had a two-month stint on loan to Macclesfield Town. Delany failed to gain an appearance with Macclesfield during his time at Moss Rose. He fell down to third in the pecking order at Vale Park behind Mark Goodlad and Jonny Brain, and was released by manager Martin Foyle in May 2004.\n\nDeciding to return home to Ireland's League of Ireland, Delany joined Shelbourne to play first-team football. He joined the club in May 2004 on a short term contract until the close of the 2004 season, and secured a two-year deal after the club won the league title that year. He eventually made his \"Shels\" league debut during a 4–2 victory against Waterford United at the RSC on 24 June 2005 and earned himself a first team place. Delany won his second league winners medal with Shelbourne at the end of the 2006 season. He also represented Shelbourne in their successful years in the Champions League and UEFA Cup. Despite this success, he became a free agent as his contract at Shelbourne was not renewed due to the club's troubled financial situation.\n\nPrior to the 2007 season, Derry City offered Delany a trial. However, he did not join his former Shelbourne boss Pat Fenlon due to failed negotiations, and joined Waterford United on 15 March 2007 on a free transfer and quickly became the \"Blues\" first choice keeper. Despite Delany's heroics throughout the season, Waterford were relegated to the First Division at the end of the season, losing to Finn Harps in a two-legged promotion/relegation play-off. Delany won Waterford's overall Player of the Year award, and helped the \"Blues\" to win the Munster Senior Cup, but he departed Waterford at the end of the season to rejoin former club Shelbourne.\n\nOn 7 March 2008, Delany played his first match for Shelbourne since 2006 in a 0–0 draw against Dundalk. He played in all 36 of Shelbourne's league matches in his first season back with the club and helped the \"Reds\" concede the fewest goals in the First Division, just 25 securing his position in division 1 team of the year. Shelbourne were narrowly denied promotion after a goal in the last minute of added-time in the final league game against Limerick gave Dundalk the First Division Championship and the accompanying promotion to the Premier Division.\n\nDelany was yet again Shelbourne's first choice goalkeeper in 2009, playing in all but one league match and winning a place on the PFAI First Division Team of the Year. The \"Shels\" finished runners-up in the league and qualified for a promotion play-off with Sporting Fingal, which Fingal won 2–1, a slight consolation for him that year was that he was again voted in division 1 team of the year. The following season Delany fended off competition from Steve Williams, and kept goal as the club won the 2010 Leinster Senior Cup; he kept a clean sheet in the final against Bray Wanderers. He retained his first team place in 2011 ahead of new signing Paul Skinner, as the \"Reds\" won promotion as First Division runners-up; the league was extremely tight, as just three points separated the top four teams. He also played in the FAI Cup final at the Aviva Stadium, where his side lost out to Sligo Rovers in the penalty shoot-out following a 1–1 draw.\n\nOn 20 December 2012, Delany was one of 20 players to sign up with Aaron Callaghan's Bohemian for the 2013 campaign. Dean was ever present during \"Bohs\" league campaign, featuring in all 33 games and he signed a new one-year contract at the close of that season to keep him at the club until the end of 2014. Bohemian finished fifth in 2015, an improvement of two places on the 2014 campaign. They finished eighth in the 2016 campaign.\n\nDelany joined Shelbourne for a third spell for the 2017 season. He made 27 appearances as Owen Heary's Shelbourne posted a fourth-place finish and won his third Leinster Senior Cup as Shelbourne beat Dundalk 4–2 after extra-time at Oriel Park. He was named on the PFAI First Division Team of the Year for the 2018 season, having made 28 league appearances throughout the year. Shelbourne qualified for the play-offs, losing out Drogheda United on penalties at the semi-final stage. He left Shelbourne after their First Division title winning 2019 season.\n\nDelany was capped at U15, 16, 18, 19, 20, 21 and B international level, and represented the Irish under-21s as a 17-year-old in a triangular Celtic tournament involving Scotland and Northern Ireland. He looked to be Ireland's most promising young goalkeeper after the 1999 World Youth Championship, in which he was part of the \"Golden generation\" of Irish youth football (which included talent such as Damien Duff, Richard Dunne and Robbie Keane), a side that eventually made it to the quarter finals of the competition. He was also part of the Irish UEFA Under-18 Championship winning squad of 1998, the following year he was eligible again and played a big part in securing a bronze medal in the third place play-off in Sweden. He made 28 appearances for the Republic of Ireland youth teams, including an impressive 21 appearances for the Irish under 21s under bosses Ian Evans and Don Givens.\n\nHe later was noticed after making a start to the 2003–04 season with Port Vale by the then Republic of Ireland manager Brian Kerr who called him into the senior international squad for a training camp before the crucial European championship qualifier against Georgia.\n\nDelany is married with two children. He holds a keen interest in music, and was rhythm guitarist and vocalist of Irish indie band The Novas. Delany has worked as a postal worker with An Post since returning to semi-professional football in Ireland.\n\n<br>\nIndividual\n\nEverton\n\nPort Vale\n\nShelbourne\n\nWaterford United\n\nBohemians\n\nRepublic of Ireland\n"}
{"id": "2257827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257827", "title": "North West Frontier (film)", "text": "North West Frontier (film)\n\nNorth West Frontier (USA: Flame Over India; Australia: Empress of India) is a 1959 British Eastmancolor adventure film starring Kenneth More, Lauren Bacall, Herbert Lom, Wilfrid Hyde-White and I. S. Johar. The CinemaScope film, which was produced by Marcel Hellman, was directed by J. Lee Thompson. It was a commercial success at the British box office in 1959. The film's achievement led to J. Lee Thompson beginning his American career as a director.\n\nThe film is set in the North West Frontier Province of British Raj (now within modern Pakistan). It explores the ethnic tensions within British India after Muslim rebels attack a fortress and kill a Hindu maharajah.\n\nIn 1905 on the North West Frontier of British India, a maharajah asks British Army Captain Scott to take his young son, Prince Kishan, to Haserabad and then send him to Delhi to protect him from an uprising. Accompanying them is the prince's governess, an American widow named Mrs. Wyatt. They leave as the rebels storm the palace and kill the prince's father.\n\nOn arrival at Haserabad, Captain Scott sees that many local Hindus and Europeans are leaving on the last train to Kalapur. The Muslim rebels soon close in and take control of the outer wall and gate beside the railway yard. The British governor tells Scott that he must take the young prince to Kalapur for his safety. In the railyard, the British captain discovers the \"Empress of India\", an old engine with carriage cared for by its driver Gupta.\n\nEarly the next morning, Captain Scott quietly loads the passengers onto the old train. They include Mrs. Wyatt, Prince Kishan, arms dealer Mr. Peters, British expatriate Mr. Bridie, Lady Windham (the governor's wife), two British Indian Army NCOs, and Dutch journalist Mr. Peter van Leyden. The \"Empress\" quietly freewheels down a gradient and out of the yard, but when her whistle is accidentally sounded, Gupta crashes her through the outer gate.\n\nLater that morning, the train encounters a refugee train; everyone on board has been massacred by the rebels. Despite being told not to by Captain Scott, Mrs. Wyatt leaves the \"Empress\" and finds one survivor, a baby concealed by his mother's body. \n\nThe next morning, the train must stop because a portion of the track has been blown up. Mrs. Wyatt spots the signaling flashes of a heliograph atop a mountain summit, and everyone quickly realises that the Muslim rebels are waiting in the surrounding mountains. With track repairs barely finished by the occupants, the train gets away under a hail of gunfire; Gupta is wounded but survives. \n\nLater that day, while stopping to refill the engine's water tank, Scott walks into the pump house to find Van Leyden allowing Prince Kishan to stand dangerously close to the pump's rapidly spinning flywheel. During the night, Mr. Van Leyden again approaches the prince, only to notice Lady Windham watching him.\n\nThe train reaches a bomb-damaged viaduct/bridge. There is nothing under one section of rail except the ground far below. Scott has the others carefully cross that section one by one to lighten the train that will follow them. Finally, only Van Leyden the prince remain behind. Van Leyden seems to endanger the boy, before Scott is able to get him across. Afterward, Scott accuses Van Leyden of trying to kill the prince, and he places the reporter under arrest. After that, Captain Scott, under Gupta's guidance, carefully maneuvers the train across.\n\nLater, while going through a tunnel, Van Leyden uses the opportunity to overpower his guard. He uses a Maxim machine gun to hold the passengers at bay. It is now that he declares his loyalty to the Muslim cause. He is unable to kill Prince Kishnan because the boy is forward with Captain Scott in the locomotive's cab. Scott returns to the carriage with the young prince after spotting more rebel heliograph signals, but they are saved when Van Leyden is knocked off balance by a kick from Mr. Bridie. Scott pursues him onto the carriage roof, but it is Mrs. Wyatt who shoots and kills Van Leyden just as he is about to kill Scott.\n\nThe Muslim rebels chase the train on horseback but are thwarted when the \"Empress\" enters a two-mile-long hillside tunnel. On the other side, the train reaches the safety of Kalapur. At the station, young Prince Kishan is met by his Hindu entourage, while Gupta is taken to hospital, and Lady Windham is informed that her husband, the governor, is safe. On learning Prince Kishan may yet fight the British, as his father instructed him, Scott quotes Kipling (\"Be thankful you're livin', and trust to your luck, And march to your front like a soldier\") before he and Mrs. Wyatt leave together.\n\nIn 1957, More announced he would play \"a romantic adventure\" part set during the Indian Mutiny, \"Night Runners of Bengal\". This film was never made and it is likely instead More was transferred to a similar project, \"North West Frontier\". Olivia de Havilland was originally announced as the female lead.\n\nLocation scenes filming in India took place at the Amber Fort, in Rajasthan. Some of the rail sequences were shot in southern Spain in the province of Granada. The area's dry arid steppe was used to portray British India. Parts of the railway, which is now abandoned, traversed the northern part of the Sierra Nevada between Guadix and Baza. The bomb-damaged rail bridge that the train must cross is over the Carretera de Belerda (at ). The ending used Iznalloz railway station near Barrio Primero De Mayo (at ).\n\nAn article by Ray Ellis, entitled \"Railway Films of the Raj\", published in the Indian Railway Study Group Newsletter No.9 in January 1993, states:\n\nThe film was a major hit in the UK, being among the six most popular films in Great Britain for the year ended 31 October 1959.\n\nThe film was one of seven made by Rank which were bought for distribution in the US by 20th Century Fox. Lauren Bacall called it a \"good little movie ... with a stupid title\" (referring to the US title, \"Flame Over India\").\n\n"}
{"id": "2257829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257829", "title": "Frederik Paludan-Müller", "text": "Frederik Paludan-Müller\n\nFrederik Paludan-Müller (7 February 1809 – 27 December 1876) was a Danish poet, the third son of Jens Paludan-Müller and born in Kerteminde, on the island of Funen.\n\nIn 1819 his father was transferred to Odense, and Frederik began to attend the Latin school there. In 1828 he passed to the University of Copenhagen. The poet lived a very retired life, first in Copenhagen, then for many years in a cottage on the outskirts of the royal park of Fredensborg, and finally in a house in Ny Adelgade, Copenhagen, where he died.\n\nIn 1832 he opened his poetical career with \"Four Romances\", and a romantic comedy entitled \"Love at Court\". This enjoyed a considerable success, and was succeeded in 1833 by \"Dandserinden\" (\"The Dancing Girl\").\n\nPaludan-Müller was accepted by criticism without a struggle, and few writers have excited less hostility. He was not, however, well inspired in his lyrical drama of \"Amor and Psyche\" in 1834 nor in his oriental tale of \"Zuleimas Flugt\" (\"Zuleima's Flight\"), in 1835, in each of which he was too vividly influenced by Lord Byron. But he regained all that he had lost by his two volumes of poems in 1836 and 1838.\n\nFrom 1838 to 1840 Paludan-Müller was making the grand tour in Europe and his genius greatly expanded; in Italy he wrote \"Venus\", a lyrical poem of extreme beauty. In the same year, 1841, he began to publish a great work on which he had long been engaged and which he did not conclude until 1848; this was \"Adam Homo\", a narrative epic, satirical, modern and descriptive, into which Paludan-Müller wove all his variegated impressions of Denmark and of love. It deals with the duality of human personality, the emptiness of social ambition, and the redeeming force of selfless love. This remains a classic of Danish poetical literature.\n\nIn 1844 he composed three enchanting idylls, \"Dryadens bryllup\" (\"The Dryad's Wedding\") \"Tithon\" (\"Tithonus\") and \"Abels Død\" (\"The Death of Abel\"). From 1850 a certain decline in the poet's physical energy became manifest and he wrote less. His majestic drama of \"Kalanus\" belongs to 1854. Then for seven years he kept silent. \"Paradiset\" (\"Paradise\") 1861; and \"Benedikt fra Nurcia\" (\"Benedict of Nurcia\") 1861; bear evidence of malady, both physical and mental. Paludan-Müller wrote considerably after this, but never recovered his early raptures, except in the very latest of all his poems, the enchanting welcome to death, entitled \"Adonis\".\n\nThe work of Paludan-Müller, especially \"Adam Homo\" in many ways represents the ultimate idealist demands of Danish romanticism. His strong ethic claims and personal isolation has often made him being compared to the philosopher Søren Kierkegaard in spite of their differences. Rather unknown outside Denmark, Paludan-Müller has perhaps however exerted an influence on world literature in that way that the early works of Henrik Ibsen, \"Brand, Peer Gynt,\" seem to be influenced by his thoughts.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257837", "title": "Morris Ximenes", "text": "Morris Ximenes\n\nSir Morris Ximenes (1762–1837), also known as Moses Ximenes, was a captain in the British Army and Berkshire landowner who had converted to Anglicanism from Judaism.\n\nMorris was born in London about 1762. He was a member of the London Exchange, where he made a large fortune. In 1802, he was elected a warden of the Bevis Marks Synagogue, but declined to accept; and on being fined he resigned from the community and became converted to Christianity.\n\nHowever, \"he embraced his new faith while expressing the most friendly feelings towards the professors of the old faith.\"\n\nHe afterwards followed a military career and served in the Peninsular War as Captain Ximenes. He was knighted in 1806 and appointed high sheriff of both the counties of Kent and of Berkshire (1806). His chief residence was Bear Place at Hare Hatch, near Wargrave, in the latter county. He died in London in 1837.\n\nIt was suggested that he was perhaps descended from Francisco Jiménez de Cisneros, (1436–1517), twice regent of Spain and sometime Grand Inquisitor. (Ximenes and Jiménez: homonyms)\n\nHis younger brother, Sir David Ximenes, had no connection with the Jewish community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257839", "title": "Dalkey Island", "text": "Dalkey Island\n\nDalkey Island ( ) is an island for which the nearby village of Dalkey is named ( meaning \"thorn island\"). It is an uninhabited island located south of Dublin and south of Dún Laoghaire harbour. An important site of pilgrimage for centuries, it has been known as \"St Begnet's Isle\" since records began. The earliest reference to 'Dalkey Island' is from c. 1782. The island had a population of 8 in 1841.\n\nThe island is currently uninhabited but there is evidence of human occupation dating back to the Neolithic period. The remains of field systems, a church, a cairn burial, a gun battery and the Martello Tower still exist. There are two Holy Wells, one on the western shoreline is known locally as the \"Scurvy Well\" and is located within a surrounding stone structure. There is also a bullaun stone formed from an earthbound boulder. This may have been used as a pagan altar as it was 'Christianised' in the 7th century by carving an early Christian cross on the face. This lies close to the remains of the church. At the northern extremity of the Island there is evidence of a deep ditch or fosse that was the boundary of a medieval Promontary Fort. Located less than 300 metres off the mainland, the island comprises 9 hectares (22 acres). From Bulloch Harbour, it is possible to visit the island. Also a regular ferry operates from Coliemore Harbour , during the summer months.\n\nDalkey Island, only 5 minutes by boat from Coliemore Harbour, is an important site of ancient and historic remains. Artefacts from the island, now housed in the National Museum in Dublin, provide evidence that the island's original occupants were from the Mesolithic, or Middle Stone Age. Humans continued to use the site through the Neolithic, Iron Age and Early Christian period.\nThere is evidence it was inhabited in the 4th millennium BC (6,000 years ago) and was also used as a Viking base. A number of early medieval pieces of pottery and glassware were found on the island. Some of these artifacts came from Mediterranean area, possibly Turkey or Greece. It was an important site of pilgrimage in the medieval period as evidenced by the prominence of the island on early maps. One such, Danti's map of 'Isole Britaniche', painted on the wall of the Palazzo Vecchio in Florence (c. 1560) survives as a remarkable record. It was believed that 'taking' water from the well attributed to the saint could cure scurvy. Recent tests to the water show that it has high levels of vitamin C (the cure for scurvy), probably due to its position below a salt marsh. There are ruins of a church, dating to the 7th century, which is named for St Begnet. An older wooden church was probably here before the present stone one was built. Another church in nearby Dalkey also named for St Begnet may have been a 'base' for pilgrims before they crossed the sound to the island. 'Pilgrim badges' would have been sold in the town which would be eventually sewn into their burial shroud to prove that they had undertaken the pilgrimage, helping their journey through the gates of heaven. On the orders of Henry VIII as part of his dissolution of the monasteries, St Begnets was raided in 1539. The ornaments and plate raised 36 schillings for the crown.\n\nIn the early Christian period, the town of Dalkey was called Kilbegnet. The earliest reference to 'Dalkey Island' is to be found on a map printed for 'Barnard's New, Complete and Authentic History of England’ printed c1782'. This was about the time that the island was becoming a site of British military ordinance. There is also a reference to it on a copy of the Downs survey of about the same time.\nThe church on the island was altered during this period on the east side, when builders used it as living quarters while building the nearby Martello tower and gun battery in 1804. .\n\nExtensive archaeological excavations took place in the late 1960s (Liversage) which uncovered evidence of a churchyard and a number of burials. The skeletons were not exclusively male, as has been suggested but they were in the majority in keeping with the fact that it was an early Christian Monastic site.\n\nA promontory fort designed to help protect what was the main deep water port for Dublin, now called Coliemore Harbour , in the medieval period. was located at the northern end of the island, its presence still visible today in the form of a ditch. The remains of a child (probably a plague victim) were discovered, discarded rather than buried in the ditch during the 1968 excavation. \nThe remains may also have been that of a young Viking slave (comparisons to the remains found in Llanbedrgoch on Anglesey would suggest this) but accurate dating tests have not yet been carried out.\n\nThe ruined stone church may be as old as the 7th century and was probably abandoned for a period when the Vikings used the island as a base and there is evidence that the island was used as a slave market during this period. The Annals of the Four Masters says that in 938. Coibhdeanagh, the Abbott of Cill-achaidh, drowned in the sea off the island trying to escape with treasures from the church hidden in his vestments during one Viking raid. In the early 19th century the Admiralty erected the Martello Tower, one of eight dotted along the Dún Laoghaire coastline, as an early warning defensive device against the one-time threat of invasion during the Napoleonic Wars.\nA herd of goats, originally put on the island in the early 19th century, remains there today but they are replacements of the original goats who were removed.\n\nThe island is also an ideal spot for fishing, with pollock, coalfish, wrasse and mackerel being caught.\n\nThe channel between the island and the mainland is very deep.\n\nThe waters around Dalkey Island are much used for sailing, angling and diving. Rocks known as Maiden or Carraig Rock, Clare Rock and Lamb Island, all to the northwest, form part of the ridge of the Island. Parts of these rocks are only visible at low tide. The southern end of the island is a favorite with kayakers, especially on the flooding tide. There can be a substantial overfall here and in a south east wind can be extremely challenging for the kayaker. When kayaking around the Island on a flood tide it is easier to go in an anti-clockwise direction.\nDalkey Island is home to a colony of seals which has greatly expanded in recent years. Black rabbits and herd of wild goats live on the island also. Birdwatch Ireland have established a colony of Roseate Terns on Maiden Rock just north of the Island and Ireland holds most of the European population.\n\nThe rocks to the east of the island are known as \"The Muglins\" and are a different group or chain. These form a danger to shipping and have been fitted with a distinctive beacon. The beacon stands on the site of what was once a 'gibbet' where the bodies of two pirates, Peter McKinlie and George Gidley were displayed following their execution for the murders of Captain Cockeran, Captain George Glas and his family and others on board the ship \"Earl of Sandwich\" in 1765. Their remains lie buried under the concrete plinth base of the beacon.\n"}
{"id": "2257841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257841", "title": "Hans Hellmut Kirst", "text": "Hans Hellmut Kirst\n\nHans Hellmut Kirst (5 December 1914 – 13 February 1989) was a German novelist and the author of 46 books, many of which were translated into English. Kirst is best remembered as the creator of the \"Gunner Asch\" series which detailed the ongoing struggle of an honest individual to maintain his identity and humanity amidst the criminality and corruption of Nazi Germany.\n\nHans Hellmut Kirst was born in Osterode, East Prussia. Osterode is today placed in the Polish part of the former German province.\n\nKirst joined the German Army in 1933 and served as an officer during World War II, ending the war as a First Lieutenant. Kirst was a member of the Nazi Party, stating later that he had \"confused National Socialism with Germany\".\n\nKirst later indicated that after the war he did not immediately believe accounts of Nazi atrocities. \"One did not really know one was in a club of murderers\", he recalled.\n\nKirst's first novel was published in 1950, translated into English as \"The Lieutenant Must Be Mad.\" The book told of a young German officer who sabotaged a Nazi garrison.\n\nKirst won an international reputation with the series \"Null-acht, fünfzehn\" (Zero-Eight, Fifteen), a satire on army life centered on Gunner Asch, a private who manages to buck the system. Initially conceived as a trilogy — \"08/15 in der Kaserne\" (1954), \"08/15 im Krieg\" (1954), \"08/15 bis zum Ende\" (1955) — the three book narrative was expanded to five with the publication of \"08/15 Heute\" in 1963 and \"08/15 in der Partei\" in 1978. The series follows the career of Asch, a common man in an impossible situation, from the years before World War II, to the Eastern Front, and finally into the world of post-war Germany.\n\nThe Gunner Asch series was published in English as: \"The Revolt of Gunner Asch\" (1955), \"Forward, Gunner Asch!\" (1956), \"The Return of Gunner Asch\" (1957), \"What Became of Gunner Asch\" (1964), and \"Party Games\" (1980). (\"Party Games\", NOT part of the Gunner Asch series)\n\nOther major novels by Kirst set during the Third Reich and World War II include \"Officer Factory,\" about the investigation into the death of a training officer in an Officer School near the end of World War II, \"Last Stop, Camp 7,\" the story of 48 hours in an internment camp for former Nazis, \"The Wolves,\" a tale of crafty resistance in a German village, and \"The Nights of the Long Knives,\" about a fictitious 6-man squad of SS hit men. All of these novels featured Kirst's unique blend of deadpan humor and devastating satire, with leading characters often shown positioning themselves as outspoken, ardent Nazis during the Third Reich era before effortlessly flipping to become equally ardent in their claims to have been anti-Nazi and 100% pro-democracy or pro-communist, whichever was to their advantage, after the tide turned.\n\nKirst also wrote about the July 1944 attempt to assassinate Adolf Hitler in \"Aufstand der Soldaten\" (1965), which was translated into English as \"Soldiers' Revolt\".\n\nKirst's non-World War II themed novels included \"The Seventh Day\" (1957), a nuclear holocaust story that received worldwide acclaim and was dubbed \"so convincing, that it doesn't seem like fiction at all\". Using a wide array of viewpoint characters, most of them Germans, it is modeleddescribes - step by step and day by day - how in just a single week a chain of small incidents escalates into bigger incidents, small-scale fighting, all-out war, resort to nuclear arms and finally a worldwide nuclear exchange with Europe totally destroyed by the Seventh Day and \"the Days of Humanity were numbered\". Symbolic characters are a pair of star-crossed lovers, a West German boy and his East German girlfriend, who spend the entire book desperately searching for each other to finally find and run towards each other - but before they could touch, a nuclear explosion vaporizes both of them in a split second. \n\n\"Die letzte Karte spielt der Tod\" (1955) is a fictional account of the life of Soviet spy Richard Sorge, published in the United States as \"The Last Card\" and in the United Kingdom as \"Death Plays the Last Card\".\n\nIn 1965, Kirst was nominated for an Edgar Award of the Mystery Writers of America for his 1962 book, \"Die Nacht der Generale,\" translated into English as \"The Night of the Generals\". The book dealt with an investigation into a series of murders of prostitutes during and after World War II committed by one of three German generals. The book was made into a fairly successful 1967 film of the same name, which starred Omar Sharif and Peter O'Toole.\n\nKirst also wrote a series of detective novels set in Munich in the 1960s and published in English translations as \"Damned to Success\" (and also as \"A Time for Scandal\"), \"A Time for Truth,\" and \"Everything has a Price\".\n\nIn 1972, Kirst was a member of the jury at the 22nd Berlin International Film Festival. He was also a member of International PEN and The Authors Guild.\n\nHans Hellmut Kirst died in February 1989. He was 74 years old at the time of his death and was survived by his wife, Ruth, and a daughter.\n\nKirst's books were translated into 28 languages and sold a total of 12 million copies during his lifetime.\n\nHe is considered to be one of the greatest German chroniclers of the fall of the Third Reich and the destiny of the defeated German people. In his later years he also began writing criminal novels, but those seem not to have been translated into English. (German Wikipedia states that he wrote 60 novels).\n\n\nformula_1 Most of these novels are pure fiction. But \"\"The 20th of July\"\" is not only \"based\" on the assassination attempt against Hitler, Kirst followed the development of this event by using archive sources step by step. He \"filled in\" only small gaps of minor importance, where no sources were available.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257845", "title": "Teraphim", "text": "Teraphim\n\nTeraphim ( \"teraph\"; plural: \"teraphim\") is a Hebrew word from the Bible, found only in the plural, of uncertain etymology. Despite being plural, \"Teraphim\" may refer to singular objects, using the Hebrew plural of excellence. The word \"Teraphim\" is explained in classical rabbinical literature as meaning \"disgraceful things\" (dismissed by modern etymologists), and in many English translations of the Bible it is translated as \"idols\", or \"household god(s)\", though its exact meaning is more specific than this, but unknown precisely.\n\nAccording to Genesis 31, Rachel takes the teraphim belonging to her father Laban when her husband Jacob escapes. She hides them in a saddle bag and sits on them when Laban comes looking for them, and claims that she cannot get up because she is menstruating. From this it can be deduced that they were small, perhaps 30–35 cm. Her exact motive in doing so is subject to controversy amongst the commentators: Some argue she took the teraphim in order that her father not have idolatrous paraphernalia, while others explain that she wanted to use them herself.\n\nIn 1 Samuel 19, Michal helps her husband David to escape from her father Saul. She lets him out through a window, and then tricks Saul's men into thinking that a teraphim in her bed is actually David. This suggests the size and shape is that of a man. It also refers to \"the\" teraphim, which implies that there was a place for teraphim in every household. Van der Toorn claims that \"there is no hint of indignation at the presence of teraphim in David's house.\" However, the same word is used in 1 Samuel 15:23 where Samuel rebukes Saul and tells him that \"presumption is as iniquity and \"teraphim\"\". Here the idea is that rebellion is just as bad as teraphim, the use of which is thus denounced as idolatry. Others explain that the teraphim in this context refer to decorative statues, not to idolatrous ritual items.\n\nThe teraphim were outlawed in Josiah's reform (2 Kings 23:24), but are mentioned again in Hosea 3:4, where it says that \"the Israelites will live many days without king or prince, without sacrifice or sacred stones, without ephod or \"teraphim\".\" As in the narrative of Micah's Idol the teraphim is closely associated with the ephod, and both are mentioned elsewhere in connection with divination; it is thus a possibility that the \"Teraphim\" were involved with the process of cleromancy.\n\nIn it states: \"For the teraphim utter nonsense, and the diviners see lies; the dreamers tell false dreams, and give empty consolation.\nTherefore the people wander like sheep; they are afflicted for want of a shepherd.\"\n\nJosephus mentions that there was a custom of carrying \"housegods\" on journeys to foreign lands, and it is thus possible that the use of teraphim continued in popular culture well into the Hellenic era and possibly beyond.\n\nAccording to Targum Pseudo-Jonathan, \"Teraphim\" were made from the heads of slaughtered first born male adult humans, shaved, salted, spiced, with a golden plate placed under the tongue, and magic words engraved upon the plate; it was believed that the \"Teraphim\", mounted on the wall, would talk to people. Similar explanations are cited in the writings of Eleazar of Worms and Tobiah ben Eliezer.\n\nDuring the excavation of Jericho by Kathleen Kenyon, evidence of the use of human skulls as cult objects was uncovered, lending credence to the rabbinical conjecture. The implied size and the fact that Michal could pretend that one was David, has led to the rabbinical conjecture that they were heads, possibly mummified human heads.\n\nCasper Labuschagne claims that it comes via metathesis from the root פתר, \"to interpret\". Karel Van der Toorn argues that they were ancestor figurines rather than household deities, and that the \"current interpretation of the teraphim as household deities suffers from a onesided use of Mesopotamian material.\"\n\nThat Micah, who worshipped Yahweh, used the \"Teraphim\" as an idol, and that Laban regarded the Teraphim as representing \"his gods\", is thought to indicate that they were evidently images of Yahweh. It is considered possible that they originated as a fetish, possibly initially representative of ancestors, but gradually becoming oracular.\n\nBenno Landsberger and later Harry Hoffner derive the word from Hittite \"tarpiš\", \"the evil daemon\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257847", "title": "Grand Duchess Elena Vladimirovna of Russia", "text": "Grand Duchess Elena Vladimirovna of Russia\n\nGrand Duchess Elena Vladimirovna of Russia (17 January 1882 – 13 March 1957), sometimes known as Helen, Helena, Helene, Ellen, Yelena, Hélène, or Eleni, was a Russian grand duchess as the only daughter and youngest child of Grand Duke Vladimir Alexandrovich of Russia and Duchess Marie of Mecklenburg-Schwerin. Her husband was Prince Nicholas of Greece and Denmark and they were both first cousins of Emperor Nicholas II of Russia.\n\nElena and her three surviving older brothers, Kirill, Boris, and Andrei, had an English nanny and spoke English as their first language. The young Elena had a temper and was sometimes out of control. When she posed for an artist at age four, she grabbed a paper knife and threatened her nurse, who hid behind the artist. \"The little lady then transferred her attentions to me, her black eyes ablaze with fury,\" recalled the artist. Elena, raised by a mother who was highly conscious of her social status, was also considered snobbish by some. \"Poor little thing, I feel sorry for her,\" wrote her mother's social rival, Dowager Empress Maria Feodorovna, \"for she is really quite sweet, but vain and pretty grandiose.\"\n\nShe was initially engaged to Prince Max of Baden, but Max backed out of the engagement. Elena's mother was furious and society gossiped about Elena's difficulty in finding a husband. At one point in 1899, the seventeen-year-old Elena was reputedly engaged to Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, however this came to nothing as he fell in love with Countess Sophie Chotek. Prince Nicholas of Greece and Denmark, the third son of George I of Greece, first proposed in 1900, but Elena's mother was reluctant to allow her daughter to marry a younger son with no real fortune or prospects of inheriting a throne. She finally agreed to let Elena marry Nicholas, who was Elena's second cousin through his mother Olga Constantinovna of Russia and her father Vladimir Alexandrovich of Russia, in 1902 after it became clear that no other offers were on the horizon. \n\nThe couple were married on 29 August 1902 in Tsarskoye Selo, Russia. Like many imperial weddings, it was a grand affair, and was attended by the Emperor and Empress of Russia, the King and Queen of the Hellenes, among other royals and nobility of Russia.\n\nThe Dowager Empress wrote that Elena \"has a very brusque and arrogant tone that can shock people\" and expected trouble in the marriage. Elena's \"grand manner\" did irritate some people at the court, but her marriage was a happy one.\nPrince and Princess Nicholas had three daughters:\n\nThe family was later affected by the turmoil of the Russian Revolution of 1917 and the subsequent turmoil in Greece, which became a republic and resulted in the family living in France for a time.\n\nWhile living in France Grand Duchess Elena became deeply involved in charity work for Russian exiles, particularly children. Short of money due to their exile from Greece and the loss of their Russian income, Prince Nicholas and his family lived in reduced, but elegant, circumstances. Grand Duchess Elena's fabulous jewel collection, as well as Prince Nicholas' own artwork, were their sources of income.\n\nPrincess Olga of Greece married Prince Paul of Yugoslavia; Princess Elizabeth of Greece married Count Karl Theodor zu Toerring-Jettenbach, son of Duchess Sophie in Bavaria and scion of an old and rich Bavarian mediatized family; and Princess Marina of Greece married the Prince George, Duke of Kent in November 1934.\n\nGrand Duchess Elena became a widow early in 1938, as Prince Nicholas suffered a heart attack and died suddenly. She remained in Greece throughout the Second World War, dying there in 1957. She bequeathed her personal library to the Anavryta School.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257851", "title": "Jurong Police Division", "text": "Jurong Police Division\n\nThe Jurong Police Division (or 'J' Division, Chinese: 裕廊警区) is one of the seven land divisions of the Singapore Police Force. Jurong Division first came into existence as the ‘Rural West’ Division on 24 Sep 1965 and operated from a standalone building located at Bukit Panjang. As the communities in the west grew, police posts were built in Ama Keng, Mandai and Kranji.\n\nFollowing Singapore's independence, the western part of Singapore underwent rapid rural, industrial and urban development. From then on, the Rural West Division expanded to meet the challenges of policing a larger population. In 1976, it shifted to the Taman Jurong Police Station at Yung Ho Road. In 1980, the Division shifted to Corporation Road and became known as the Jurong Police Division. On 5 May 2002, Jurong Police Division moved to its current premises at No. 2 Jurong West Ave 5 which became the Division's headquarters.\n\nJurong Division serves a residential population of over 730,000 residents which covers a stretch of land from Boon Lay and Tuas in the west to areas like Bukit Batok, Choa Chu Kang and Bukit Panjang in the northwest. Besides residential estates, it also covers major industrial areas and has a long coastal area lined with over 100 sea-fronting companies.\n\nJurong Division traces its history back to the Rural West Division, which manages a large swath of previously uninhabited and agricultural areas. Rapid urbanisation resulted in a reorganisation of divisional boundaries, and the division's headquarters moved to the Taman Jurong Police Station at Yung Ho Road in 1975. It relocated again in 1980 to Corporation Road, concurrently changing its name to its present-day name, Jurong Police Division.\n\nWith the implementation of the Neighbourhood Police Centre system in the division in 1999, the headquarters was moved to its present location at 2 Jurong West Avenue 5, Singapore 649482.\n\nIn November 2018, Woodlands Police Division was formed, and took over operations of two NPCs from Jurong Police Division (Woodlands East NPC & Woodlands West NPC).\n\n\nIn November 2019, a senior staff sergeant was sentenced to jail and cane for molesting a female accused and asking one other suspect to perform a sex act on him while both were in custody at Jurong Police Divisional Headquarters. The senior investigation officer was also subsequently charged for conduct to the prejudice of good order and discipline, disciplinary demoted to constable and dishonourably discharged.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257854", "title": "Antikythera", "text": "Antikythera\n\nAntikythera or Antikythira (, ; , ) is a Greek island lying on the edge of the Aegean Sea, between Crete and Peloponnese. In antiquity the island was known as (). Since the 2011 local government reform it is part of the municipality of Kythira island.\n\nAntikythera may also refer to the Kythira-Antikythira Strait, through which modified Mediterranean water enters the Sea of Crete.\n\nIts land area is , and it lies south-east of Kythira. It is the most distant part of the Attica region from its heart in the Athens metropolitan area. It is lozenge-shaped, NNW to SSE by ENE to WSW. It is notable for being the location of the discovery of the Antikythera mechanism and for the historical Antikythera wreck.\n\nIts main settlement and port is Potamós (pop. 34 inhabitants in the 2011 census). The only other settlements are Galanianá (pop. 15), and Charchalianá (pop. 19). Antikythera is periodically visited by the Ablemon Nautical Company ferry \"F/B Ionis\" on its route between Piraeus (Athens) and Kissamos-Kastelli on Crete.\n\nThe earliest known inhabitants (5th or 4th millennium BC) were likely seasonal hunters who traveled there to exploit the presence of migratory birds. The population of the island then changed frequently as it was settled and abandoned several times, including a period of significant influence by Cretan culture during the Bronze Age. In antiquity, the island of Antikythera was known as Aegilia or Aigilia (), Aegila or Aigila (), or Ogylos ().\n\nBetween the 4th and 1st centuries BC, it was used as a base by a group of Cilician pirates until their destruction by Pompey the Great. Their fort can still be seen atop a cliff to the northeast of the island. The archaeology of the island has been thoroughly surveyed and the data made openly available for further study.\n\nAntikythera is one of the few islands in the Aegean which were never ruled by the Ottoman Empire, as the Turks did not consider the small island a worthwhile conquest. Nevertheless, it was noted on Ottoman maps as , a name that has persisted in modern Turkish.\n\nAntikythera was administered by the Venetians as part of the Ionian Islands, despite being several hundred kilometres away from the main Ionian archipelago. The Venetians held out in Antikythera until 1800 while the rest of the Ionian Islands had fallen to Napoleonic France in 1797. It became a British protectorate in 1815 as part of the United States of the Ionian Islands. The island was then ceded to Greece under the Treaty of London (1864).\n\nFrom 1864 to 1912, Antikythera was the southernmost point of Greece, as Crete was then part of Turkey.\n\nAntikythera is most famous for being the location of the 1900 discovery of the Antikythera wreck, from which the Antikythera Ephebe and Antikythera Mechanism were recovered. The Antikythera mechanism is an ancient mechanical calculator (sometimes described as the first mechanical computer) designed to calculate astronomical positions which has been dated to about 205 BC. Technological artifacts of similar complexity did not reappear until a thousand years later.\n\nThe island was occupied by Italy and was known as Cerigotto.\n\nAntikythera is a very important stop-over site for migratory birds during their seasonal movements, due to its geographical position and certain features (a longitudinal island, with a north-south direction and very low human impact). Furthermore, the island hosts the largest breeding colony of Eleonora's falcon (\"Falco eleonorae\") in the world. The importance of Antikythera for studying bird migration led to the creation of Antikythera Bird Observatory (A.B.O) by the Hellenic Ornithological Society. The island also has a large population of wild goats.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257855", "title": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Sabe", "text": "List of rulers of the Yoruba state of Sabe\n\nSabe is a territory located in present-day Benin, based in and around the town of Savé\n\nIn the Yoruba language, the word Oba means king or ruler. It is also common for the obas of the various Yoruba domains to have their own special titles. In Sabe the Oba is referred to as the Onisabe of Sabe\n\nRecords for Sabe are fragmentary and conflicting, containing a long succession of rulers styled \"Ola\". It is suggested by one source that recent rulers alternate between descendants of either of two brothers.\n\nThe list presented here represents a fragment of the record.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257861", "title": "Antena 3 (Romanian TV channel)", "text": "Antena 3 (Romanian TV channel)\n\nAntena 3 is a Romanian news channel launched in June 2005. In May 2020, it became a partner channel of CNN. It is widely viewed as untrustworthy. Antena 3 focuses on news programmes and current events, mainly with political topics. It was launched in June 2005 as the second Romanian 24h news channel, after Realitatea TV being the first launched in 2001, and is part of the Intact Media Group. Antena 3 is also distributed in Serbia in the Romanian language-extra package of the DTH platform Digi TV. The official website of the TV channel hosts all daily shows which are made available for watching in an archive that is generally reloaded every month. Starting 2006 the TV channel also allowed online users to watch it live on the internet on its official website, and now on their on-demand subscription service Antenaplay.\n\nThe channel is affiliated CNN International since 2011, after CNN ceased their affiliation with Realitatea TV. However, since 2016, some of their programmes have broadcast Fox News news materials, reports about possible political implications of George Soros in civic movements, funded NGO's and protests in Romania and most of their head anchors showed support and sympathy during the 2016 U.S. elections to candidate and now U.S. President Donald Trump, holding generally a right-wing like attitude in these topic, even though their channel is against most right-wing political parties in Romania, except for ALDE.\n\nThe channel recently showed a soft-eurosceptic attitude after heads of the European Commission cautioned and criticised the Romanian government for the penal code modifications which might affect the rule of law in Romania, but generally swings after Jean Claude Juncker's positive view of Romania entering the Schengen area and after saying that \"Romania is ready to take the presidency of the EU Council\", that contradicts Iohannis' negative remarks that \"the Romanian government is not ready to take the responsibility of the presidency\".\n\nAntena 3 is a part of the Romanian media trust (Intact) that has a 14.6% of the Romanian media market. It is a 24 hours news channel with pretty much allegiance to the Romanian centre-left wing political spectrum and relates more positively about the centre-left government coalition of PSD and ALDE than the usual media, usually inviting ministers, MPs and political figures of the PSD-ALDE government coalition than the opposition that is usually just one guest, rarely being the opposition parties leaders, and reflects in a mostly negative perspective the opposition parties and the actualpresidential administration. Largely known for launching heavy campaigns against the former head of the DNA, Laura Codruța Kövesi because of her allegedly abusive and \"Soviet-style\" management of the institution and using it as a \"mechanism of secret police\" by the Romanian Intelligence Service in favour of the presidential power, calling it repeatedly as the \"deep state\" the \"parallel state\" or the \"binomial power\".\n\nThe channel has been accused of taking a series of biased positions during the coverage of Dan Voiculescu's conviction and arrest, about the GRIVCO criminal files, and excess of zeal during an judiciary requirement to where were forced to leave the building where their headquarters and studios are located in several days after confiscation by the fiscal authorities (ANAF). It is one of the most viewed Romanian news channels, leading in television ratings on the news segment in prime-time hours together with Romania TV (mostly above and sometimes second to Antena 3 in ratings) and are regarded as the most supportive of the Romanian government, others being Realitatea TV and Digi24 with the most opponent and critical attitude of the PSD-ALDE government and partially neutral B1 TV (although very rival to Antena 3 until the end of the Băsescu presidency) and TVR, the Romanian public broadcaster. The station's website receives an average between of 300,000 to 400,000 visitors a day being one of the most visited Romanian websites on the market. By comparison, Gazeta Sporturilor, a media product owned by Ringier, gets more than one million hits a day. The station is one of the five Romanian TV channels that have live anchors from 06:00 every morning to 01:00 every night.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257877", "title": "Plaza de Oriente", "text": "Plaza de Oriente\n\nPlaza de Oriente is a square in the historic centre of Madrid, Spain. It is rectangular in shape and monumental in character and was designed in 1844 by Narciso Pascual y Colomer. The square was propagated by King Joseph I, who ordered the demolition of the medieval houses on the site.\n\nIt is located between some important landmarks in Madrid: To the west is the Royal Palace, the Royal Theatre to the east, and to the north is the Royal Monastery of the Incarnation. \n\n\nMonument to Philip IV is a memorial to Philip IV of Spain in the centre of Plaza de Oriente.\n"}
{"id": "2257901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257901", "title": "Kimba, South Australia", "text": "Kimba, South Australia\n\nKimba is a rural service town on the Eyre Highway at the top of Eyre Peninsula in the Australian state of South Australia. At the 2016 census, Kimba had a population of 629 and it has an annual rainfall of . There is an tall statue of a galah beside the highway, marking halfway between the east and west coasts of Australia. The Gawler Ranges are north of the highway near the town.\n\nKimba is located in the federal division of Grey, the state electoral district of Giles and the local government area of the District Council of Kimba.\n\nThe word \"kimba\" is derived from the local Aboriginal word for \"bushfire\", and the District Council of Kimba's emblem reflects this in the form of a burning bush. The town was built on Barngarla lands.\n\nThe first European in the area was explorer Edward John Eyre, who passed through the area on his passage from Streaky Bay to the head of Spencer Gulf in late 1839.\n\nThe area was first settled in the 1870s by lease-holding pastoralists who moved north up the Eyre Peninsula during the 1870s and 1880s. They lightly stocked the land and relied on the limited water supplies and intermittent open grass lands to raise their stock. It was more intensively settled for wheat farming from 1908, when overseas demand for wheat increased in the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. The large tracts of mallee scrub began to be cleared to facilitate this, and soon regular mail services were established from the port at Cowell. Bags of wheat had to be loaded onto bullock drays which carried the produce to Cowell 76 km south.\n\nIn 1913, Kimba was connected by narrow gauge railway to Port Lincoln. This development encouraged a number of new wheat farmers to move into the area. Two years later the township of Kimba was officially proclaimed and service industries began to move into the district.\n\nEducation within the town is provided by the Kimba Area School where around 170 students from reception to year 12 attend.\n\nTwo properties in the Kimba district were nominated in 2017 for a proposed National Radioactive Waste Management Facility, to store low-level and intermediate-level nuclear waste. One is owned by Brett and Michelle Rayner, and the other is owned by Andrew and Dale Baldock. A third proposed site is located at Barndioota in the Flinders Ranges.\n\nIn 2017, a Kimba town vote demonstrated support for further investigation of the prospect. The result of the vote was 396 to 294 in favour. Opposition to the project has been expressed by community groups \"No Radioactive Waste on Agricultural Land in Kimba or SA\" and the \"Against Radioactive Waste Action Group\".\n\nOn 1 February 2020 federal resources minister, Matt Canavan, announced that of Jeff Baldock's Napandee property, west of Kimba, would provide the location to permanently store low-level waste. The facility would also temporarily store intermediate-level waste from Lucas Heights nuclear reactor, until a suitable permanent site was found.\n\nThe federal government is allocating a community development package to boost the skills of local businesses and workers to build and run the dump. The facility would cost , and create 45 jobs during construction and 25 ongoing jobs.\n\nAn large-scale public artwork known as \"The Big Galah\" welcomes visitors to Kimba as they enter the township. The Kimba Art Prize is held annually by the District Council of Kimba. Selected works are displayed in the Kimba Institute in September, and an award is presented to a local artist. In 2017, the art prize received 150 entries from around South Australia and interstate.\n\nIn 2017 a high mural was completed on the town's grain silos by Melbourne artist Cam Scale, part of the silo art projects that extend across South Australia and Victoria.\n\nKimba is located within a dry (arid and semi arid) climate zone (Köppen climate classification \"BSh\"), where precipitation is less than the total potential evapotranspiration. The region is characterised by hot summers and relies on cool winter rainfall for cereal (dominantly wheat and barley with smaller amounts of oats and canola) agriculture. Grazing is also practised, largely that of merino sheep for wool production with smaller amounts of cattle grazing. Water for stock is sourced solely from rainfall due to the paucity of reliable groundwater in the district, and often summer thunderstorms can supplement the winter rainfall for grazing purposes.\n\nKimba and the associated Buckleboo agricultural area is one of a small number of communities on Eyre Peninsula located significantly to the north of Goyders Line in South Australia. This line represents a remarkable development in climatic understanding from the 19th century in that it was the first recognition of the vagaries of highly variable rainfall and climatic conditions with respect to European style agriculture.\n\nThe Kimba district is dominated by calcareous earths, containing distinctive calcrete profiles and varying degrees of development, with minor ferruginous red-brown earths and local pisolitic regions. The major exception is to the south west of the Kimba District, within the Corrobinnie Depression, a palaeochannel which is now filled with deep sands. Much of this region is unsuitable for agriculture and comprises the Pinkawillinie Conservation Park. Locally grey loams and gypsum bearing flats are developed, with minor evaporites surrounding playa lakes, such as Lake Gilles at the eastern end of the district.\n\nSmall rounded hills in the form of Wild Dog Hill occur in the Kelly region to the east of Kimba township, with two ranges, Botanella Hills and the Wilcherry Range comprising uplands to the north east. The Gawler Ranges located in the pastoral country to the far north, the Cleve Uplands to the south, and the Corrobinnie Depression comprise distinct geomorphic boundaries to the District Council of Kimba.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257903", "title": "Kaufmann", "text": "Kaufmann\n\nKaufmann is a surname with many variants such as Kauffmann, Kaufman, and Kauffman. In German, the name means \"merchant\". It is the cognate of the English \"Chapman\" (which had a similar meaning in the Middle Ages, though it disappeared from modern English).\n\"Kaufmann\" may refer to: \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257908", "title": "Copyright Board of Canada", "text": "Copyright Board of Canada\n\nThe Copyright Board of Canada () is an economic regulatory body empowered to establish, either mandatorily or at the request of an interested party, the royalties to be paid for the use of copyrighted works, when the administration of such copyright is entrusted to a collective-administration society. The Board also has the right to supervise agreements between users and licensing bodies and issues licences when the copyright owner cannot be located.\n\nThe Honourable Robert A. Blair is the current Chairman of the Board of Directors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257916", "title": "Tetragonal polycrystalline zirconia", "text": "Tetragonal polycrystalline zirconia\n\nYttria blends of approximately 3% are called either tetragonal polycrystalline zirconia or tetragonal zirconia polycrystal (forming the initialisms TZP or TPZ) and have the finest grain size. These grades exhibit the highest toughness at room temperature, because they are nearly 100% tetragonal, but this degrades severely between 200 and 500 °C as these irreversible crystal transformations also cause dimensional change.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257924", "title": "Country Dance (film)", "text": "Country Dance (film)\n\nCountry Dance (also known as \"Brotherly Love\" in the USA) is a 1970 British drama film based on the novel \"Household Ghosts\" (1961) by James Kennaway which became a three-act stage play in 1967. The film was released on 22 April 1970; it was directed by J. Lee Thompson.\n\nA tragicomedy set in a fading Scottish aristocratic family, in which the drunken Sir Charles Henry Arbuthnot Pinkerton Ferguson, Bt (Peter O'Toole) has an incestuous relationship with his equally eccentric sister Hilary Dow (Susannah York).\n\nKitchen scene was filmed at now derelict Castle Hotel\n(opposite Tormaukin Hotel Scotland FK14 7JY,\n\n"}
{"id": "2257933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257933", "title": "Bevis Marks Synagogue", "text": "Bevis Marks Synagogue\n\nBevis Marks Synagogue, officially Qahal Kadosh Sha'ar ha-Shamayim (, \"Holy Congregation Gate of Heaven\"), is the oldest synagogue in the United Kingdom in continuous use. It is located off Bevis Marks, in the City of London.\n\nThe synagogue was built in 1701 and is affiliated to London's historic Spanish and Portuguese Jewish community. It is a Grade I listed building. It is the only synagogue in Europe which has held regular services continuously for more than 300 years.\n\nServices at a small synagogue in Creechurch Lane date to at least October 1663, when it was visited on the festival of Simchat Torah by the diarist Samuel Pepys, who recorded his impressions of the service. In 1698 Rabbi David Nieto took spiritual charge of the congregation of \"Spanish and Portuguese Jews\" (Sephardim).\n\nA considerable influx of Jews made it necessary to obtain more commodious quarters. Accordingly, a committee was appointed, consisting of António Gomes Serra, Menasseh Mendes, Alfonso Rodrigues, Manuel Nunez Miranda, Andrea Lopez, and Pontaleão Rodriguez. It investigated matters for nearly a year and, on 12 February 1699, signed a contract with Joseph Avis, a Quaker, for the construction of a building to cost £2,650. According to legend, Avis declined to collect his full fee, on the ground that it was wrong to profit from building a house of God. Also unsubstantiated is the story that a timber was donated by the then Princess Anne for the roof of the synagogue. On 24 June 1699, the committee leased from Sir Thomas and Lady Pointz (also known as Littleton) a tract of land at Plough Yard, in Bevis Marks, for 61 years, with the option of renewal for a further 38 years, at £120 a year.\n\nThe structure was completed and dedicated in September 1701. The interior decor and furnishing and layout of the synagogue reflect the influence of the great Portuguese Synagogue of Amsterdam of 1675. The roof was destroyed by fire in 1738 and repaired in 1749. During the London Blitz the synagogue's silver, records and fittings were removed to a place of safety; the synagogue suffered only minor damage. The synagogue suffered some collateral damage from the IRA in 1992 and the 1993 Bishopsgate bombing, but this was restored. The essential original structure of the building thus remains today.\n\nIn 1747 Benjamin Mendes da Costa bought the lease of the ground on which the building stood, and presented it to the congregation, vesting the deeds in the names of a committee consisting of Gabriel Lopez de Britto, David Aboab Ozorio, Moses Gomes Serra, David Franco, Joseph Jessurun Rodriguez, and Moses Mendes da Costa.\n\nFor Sephardic Jews, the Bevis Marks Synagogue was a religious centre of the Anglo-Jewish world for more than a century, and served as a clearing-house for congregational and individual Jewish problems all over the world. These included the appeal of Jews in Jamaica for a reduction in taxation (1736), the internecine quarrel among Jews in Barbados (1753), and the aiding of seven-year-old Moses de Paz, who escaped from Gibraltar in 1777 to avoid a forced conversion to Christianity. The congregation came to the aid of the Jewish community in Ireland by donating funds to build a wall around the Ballybough Cemetery and providing an agent to oversee the works. The deeds for the cemetery were then lodged at Bevis Marks Synagogue. Through the actions of the leading synagogue member Moses Montefiore the synagogue was also involved in the 19th century in the Damascus Affair and the Mortara Affair, two events provoking much international discussion of Jewish rights and reputation. It was part of the inspiration for Jacob Sassoon's Ohel Rachel Synagogue in Shanghai, the largest synagogue in the Far East.\n\nAmongst the Chief Rabbis of the Anglo-Sephardic Community (Hahamim) who have served at Bevis Marks have been Daniel Nieto (1654–1728) and Moses Gaster (1856–1939). Amongst other notable members of the synagogue's congregation have been the boxer Daniel Mendoza, and Isaac D'Israeli (father of Benjamin Disraeli), who resigned from the congregation after an argument over synagogue fees.\n\nAs the Spanish and Portuguese Jewish community grew and moved out of the City and East End of London to the West End and the suburbs, members demanded a new synagogue to be built in the West End. When the leadership refused this, some members formed a breakaway synagogue in Burton Street, which later became the West London Synagogue. In 1853 a branch synagogue was opened in Wigmore Street; in 1866 this moved to Bryanston Street, Bayswater. Attendance at Bevis Marks declined so much that in 1886 a move to sell the site was contemplated; a \"Bevis Marks Anti-Demolition League\" was founded, under the auspices of H. Guedalla and A. H. Newman, and the proposed move was abandoned.\n\nIn 1896 a new synagogue was built at Lauderdale Road, Maida Vale, as successor to the Bryanston Street synagogue.\n\nOn 10 April 1992, the synagogue was affected by an IRA terrorist attack on the Baltic Exchange. The bomb was contained in a large white truck and consisted of a fertiliser device wrapped with a detonation cord made from Semtex. The Chairman of Buildings for the Spanish & Portuguese Congregation, donning a hard hat and escorted by police, was one of the first people to enter the cordoned area of streets to examine the damage to the synagogue. He, with the agreement of the insurance company, put in place a programme of repair which lasted fifteen weeks, but enabled the building to be restored before his daughter's wedding.\n\nThe following year the synagogue was also affected by an attack on Bishopsgate. Nearly £200,000 was raised by donation to help with the renovations to return it to its former glory.\n\nIn June 2019, it was awarded £2.7m by the National Lottery for conservation work and to cover half the costs of building a new religious and cultural centre.\n\nA prominent feature of the synagogue is the Renaissance-style ark (containing the Torah scrolls) located at the centre of the Eastern wall of the building. It resembles in design the \"reredos\" of the churches of the same period. Painted to look as though it is made of coloured Italian marble, it is in fact made entirely of oak.\n\nSeven hanging brass candelabra symbolise the seven days of the week, the largest of which – hanging in the centre of the synagogue – represents the Sabbath. This central candelabrum was donated by the community of the Great Synagogue of Amsterdam. The candles are still lit today for weddings and the Jewish Festivals. The rest of the year the Synagogue is lit by the electric lights added in 1928. The ner tamid (sanctuary lamp) is of silver and dates from 1876.\n\nTwelve pillars, symbolising the twelve tribes of Israel, support the women's gallery.\n\nThe synagogue contains benches running parallel to the side walls and facing inward, leaving two aisles for the procession with the Torah scrolls. In addition, backless benches at the rear of the synagogue, taken from the original synagogue at Creechurch Lane, date from 1657 and are still regularly used.\n\nA number of seats in the synagogue are roped off as they belong or have belonged to notable people within the community. Two seats were reserved for the most senior officials of the congregation's publishing arm, \"Heshaim\". A third seat, fitted with a footstool, (the seat nearest the Ark on the central row of the left half of the benches) is also withheld as it belonged to Moses Montefiore. It is now only ever occupied by very senior dignitaries as a particular honour. In 2001 Prince Charles used the seat during the synagogue's tercentenary service. Prime Minister Tony Blair used it for the service celebrating the 350th anniversary of the re-settlement of the Jews in Great Britain in 2006, when the Chief Rabbi of the United Synagogue Sir Jonathan Sacks and the Lord Mayor of London were also present.\n\nThe synagogue retains notable historical records, including community circumcision and marriage records dating back to 1679.\n\nOn Friday 13 November 1998, Peter, Lord Levene of Portsoken became the eighth Jewish Lord Mayor of London. An Ashkenazi Jew by birth, Lord Levene's first public act was to walk, with a retinue, from his official residence (Mansion House) to Bevis Marks Synagogue, for the Sabbath Eve service. This was repeated on Friday 12 November 2010 by the then Lord Mayor Michael Bear.\n\nToday the Spanish and Portuguese descendant community in London operates three synagogues: Bevis Marks; Lauderdale Road (which is the community's administrative headquarters); and a smaller synagogue in Wembley. The community's sheltered housing scheme \"Harris Court\" and old-age home \"Edinburgh House\" are also located in Wembley. A number of other Sephardic synagogues in Britain have associated status. Bevis Marks Synagogue remains the flagship synagogue of the British Sephardic Jewish community. Daily services are held and the synagogue is frequently a venue for weddings and other celebrations.\n\nAs of 2017 the rabbi of Bevis Marks is Shalom Morris, an American of Ashkenazi descent.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257934", "title": "Roger Bontemps", "text": "Roger Bontemps\n\nRoger Bontemps is semi-mythical French figure who personifies a state of leisure and freedom from care. According to Pierre-Jean de Béranger, Roger Bontemps is the epitome of \"Never say die\".\n\nThe figure first appears as a literary character in \"Le Livre du Cuers d'Amours Espris\" (The Book of the Love-Smitten Heart) attributed to René of Anjou (1409–1480), also known as \"Good King René\". In this allegory of love, written ca. 1457–77, \"Rogier Bon Temps\" is the only character who refuses to surrender his heart to the God of Love.\n\n\"Roger Bontemps\" is said to have been the nickname of Roger de Collery (c. 1470–1540), who was a priest and secretary of the Bishop of Auxerre. He was famous for his jovial personality, and presided over a convivial society at Auxerre, earning the facetious title the \"Mad Abbot\". He left some writings in prose and verse, which are known from 1536 and were reprinted in 1856 by Charles Héricault.\n\nRoger Bontemps appears several times in French literature, such as in a play by André Rivoire. The figure also appears in a poem by William Makepeace Thackeray, first published in his 1852 anthology, \"The Paris Sketchbook\".\n"}
{"id": "2257935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257935", "title": "Konrad Pellikan", "text": "Konrad Pellikan\n\nKonrad Pellikan (; Latin: \"Conradus Pellicanus\"; sometimes anglicized as \"Conrad Pellican\"; January 8, 1478, Rouffach in Alsace 6 May 1556, Zurich) was a German Protestant theologian, humanist, Protestant reformer and Christian Hebraist who worked chiefly in Switzerland.\n\nHis German name, \"Kurscherer\", was changed to \"Pellicanus\" by his mother's brother Jodocus Gallus, an ecclesiastic connected with the University of Heidelberg, who supported his nephew for sixteen months at the university in 1491-1492. On returning to Rouffach, he taught \"gratis\" in the Franciscan convent school that he might borrow books from the library, and in his sixteenth year resolved to become a friar. This step helped his studies, for he was sent to Tübingen in 1496 and became a favorite pupil of the guardian of the Minorite convent there, Paulus Scriptoris, a man of considerable general learning.\n\nHe taught Hebrew, Greek, mathematics and cosmography at the Franciscan monastery of St. Katherina in Rouffach, in the upper Alsace. He subsequently taught at Pforzheim and Tübingen. The mapmaker Sebastian Münster studied under him at Rouffach, and is said to have been greatly influenced by Pellikan's teachings.\n\nThere seems to have been at that time in southwest Germany a considerable amount of sturdy independent thought among the Franciscans; Pellikan himself became a Protestant very gradually, and without any such revulsion of feeling as marked Martin Luther's conversion. At Tübingen the future \"apostate in three languages\" was able to begin the study of Hebrew. He had no teacher and no grammar; but Paulus Scriptoris carried him a huge codex of the prophets on his own shoulders all the way from Mainz. He learned the letters from the transcription of a few verses in the \"Star of the Messiah\" of Petrus Niger, and, with a subsequent hint or two from Johannes Reuchlin, who also lent him the grammar of Moses Kimhi, made his way through the Bible for himself with the help of Jerome's \"Latin\". He got on so well that he was not only a useful helper to Reuchlin but anticipated Reuchlin's manuals by composing in 1501 the first Hebrew grammar in a European tongue. It was printed in 1503, and afterwards included in Reysch's \"Margarita philosophica\". Hebrew remained a favorite study to the last.\n\nPellikan became a priest in 1501 and continued to serve his order at Rouffach, Pforzheim, and Basel until 1526. At Basel he did much laborious work for Froben's editions, and came to the conclusion that the Church taught many doctrines of which the early doctors of Christianity knew nothing. He spoke his views frankly, but he disliked polemic; he found also more toleration than might have been expected, even after he became active in circulating Luther's books. Thus, supported by the civic authorities, he remained guardian of the convent of his order at Basel from 1519 until 1524, and even when he had to give up his post, remained in the monastery for two years, professing theology in the university. At length, when the position was becoming quite untenable, he received through Zwingli a call to Zürich as professor of Greek and Hebrew at the \"Carolinum\". Formally throwing off his monk's habit, Pellikan entered on a new life. Here he remained until his death on 6 April 1556.\n\nPellikan wrote the \"Chronikon\" and also translated Hebrew works into Latin, such as Bechji Ben Asher's commentary on the Torah and the work of Pirqe Rabbi Eliezer (\"Eliezer filius Hircani\"), the \"Liber sententiarum Judiacarum\", in 1546.\n\nPellikan's autobiography describes the gradual multiplication of accessible books on the subjects, and he not only studied but translated a vast mass of rabbinical and Talmudic texts, his interest in Jewish literature being mainly philological. The chief fruit of these studies is the vast commentary on the Bible (Zürich, 7 vols., 1532–1539), which shows a remarkably sound judgment on questions of the text, and a sense for historical as opposed to typological exegesis. Pellikan's scholarship, though not brilliant, was really extensive; his sound sense, and his singularly pure and devoted character gave him a great influence.\n\nHe was remarkably free from the pedantry of the time, as is shown by his views about the use of the German vernacular as a vehicle of culture (\"Chron.\" 135, 36). As a theologian his natural affinities were with Zwingli, having grown up to the views of the Reformation, by the natural progress of his studies and religious life. Thus he never lost his sympathy with humanism and Erasmus.\n\nPellikan's Latin autobiography (\"Das Chronikon des Konrad Pellikan\") is one of the most interesting documents of the period. It was first published by Riggenbach in 1877, and in this volume the other sources for his life are registered.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257939", "title": "Élodie Gossuin", "text": "Élodie Gossuin\n\nÉlodie Gossuin (born 15 December 1980) is a French beauty pageant titleholder, model, radio and television presenter, columnist and regional politician. She was elected Miss Picardy 2000, Miss France 2001 (she is the 72nd Miss France), and Miss Europe 2001. Since 2016, she has been the French voting spokesperson in the Eurovision Song Contest.\n\nÉlodie Gossuin was born in Reims in the department of Marne to Lysiane Triquet and yves gossuin she has a sister. She was raised in Trosly-Breuil in the region of Picardy, a village about 10 kilometers east of the city of Compiègne in the department of Oise. In her teens, she won several local beauty contests.\n\nWhile training to be a nurse, she obtained her final high school exam in the science field with the biology option. She then studied at the Faculté de Médecine of Amiens and then studied in a nursing school.\n\nShe won the Miss Picardy beauty contest in November 2000, which qualified her to compete for the Miss France 2001 title in Monaco on 9 December 2000, broadcast directly on TF1 with an audience of 14 million viewers. She won that contest and as a result received considerable press coverage.\n\nHer Miss France runners-up were:\n\nFor one year, Gossuin travelled in France with Geneviève de Fontenay, president of the Miss France committee. She was ranked in the Top 10 at the Miss Universe 2001 contest in San Juan, Puerto Rico. She then won the Miss Europe 2001 contest in Beirut, Lebanon, and then began working as a model and making publicity appearances.\n\nHer Miss Europe runners-up were:\n\nIn 2003, she became the spokesmodel for the brand Lucie Saint-Clair, an international hairdresser. That same year, her fan club and her official website were created.\n\nSince September 2010, she has been the representative in Europe of Royal Extension, a brand of hair extensions.\n\nIn 2003, Gossuin embarked on a political career. She was elected in Oise on the list of UDF-UMP party led by Gilles de Robien, and became a Regional Councillor in her native Picardy region on 28 March 2004. Her work and attendance at the Regional Council earned her the recognition of her political opponents.\n\nStanding at seventh position in the list of the presidential majority led by Caroline Cayeux during the regional elections of 2010, she temporarily lost her mandate for a few months, but returned to the Regional Council after the resignation of Édouard Courtial on 14 October 2010.\n\nSince 2005 Gossuin has presented seasons of the program \"Miss Swan\" on TF6. In 2006, she became a columnist for the magazine \"Public\" and the program \"Morning café\" on M6. In March 2007, she joined the channel Direct 8 and became a contributor to the program \"Un Max de services\". from April 2004 until October 2011 she was part of the team of contributors to the program \"Touche pas à mon poste !\" presented by Cyril Hanouna on France 4.\n\nOn 5 December 2010 Gossuin and Jacky presented the Miss Nationale 2011 contest, a new initiative created by Geneviève de Fontenay. The program was also broadcast on channel BFM TV.\n\nIn 2011, she co-hosted with Énora Malagré the program \"Ça va mieux en le disant\" on France 4. Since October 2012, she presents on the same channel \"Un coach pour changer ma vie\", a controversial program about therapeutic efficacy. In 2012, she was a contributor to the program \"Faut pas rater ça !\" still on the same channel. On 29 April 2016, she was announced to be France's spokesperson for the Eurovision Song Contest 2016. Her off-key interpretation of part of the French entry that year went viral on social media and became the subject of numerous video mash-ups and memes. She returned as France's spokesperson for the Eurovision Song Contest 2017, and presented the French points again in 2018.\n\nIn March 2011, she joined the morning team of the radio program \"Manu à la radio !\" on NRJ co-hosted by Virginie de Clausade and replaced her during her maternity leave. Gossuin also co-hosted from August 2011 to June 2012 the program \"Manu dans le 6/9!\" on the same radio station.\n\nGossuin has regularly participated at the game show \"Mot de passe\" hosted by Patrick Sabatier on France 2. She participated at the first season of \"La Ferme Célébrités\" in 2004 where she was ranked third, staying ten weeks and earning 150,000 € for her association. She participated six times at \"Fort Boyard\" in 2001, 2003, 2008 (with her husband), 2009, 2011 and 2012 to raise funds for associations.\n\nShe also participated in the program \"Incroyables Expériences\" broadcast on 27 February 2010 on France 2. She participated on 17 December 2011 at a prime time of the program \"N'oubliez pas les paroles\" hosted by Nagui on the same channel. With Gérard Lenorman, she earned 50,000 € for the association Vaincre la musoviscidose. She participated at \"Qui veut gagner des millions ?\" (French version of \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\") in August 2012 on TF1. In 2013, she regularly participates in the game show \"Tout le monde aime la France\" hosted by Sandrine Quétier on the same channel.\n\nÉlodie Gossuin married the model Bertrand Lacherie on 1 July 2006 in Compiègne. She added his family name attached to hers (Gossuin-Lacherie).\n\nShe gave birth on 21 December 2007 to twins, a boy and a girl named Jules and Rose. She announced on 29 May 2013 on her Twitter account that she was expecting her third child, but then announced on 23 July that she was again expecting twins.\n\nShe gave birth on 11 October 2013 to her second set of twins, a girl and a boy named Joséphine and Léonard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257946", "title": "Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission", "text": "Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission\n\nThe Hellenic Telecommunications and Post Commission (, \"Ethniki Epitropi Tilepikoinonion kai Tachydromeion\") or EETT is the Greek national regulatory authority for of the telecommunication and postal markets.\n\nThe EETT is responsible for managing numbering resources, controlling and licensing the electromagnetic spectrum in Greece as well as regulating the telecom markets having exclusive rights over the competition in the telecoms market. Thus, all issues concerning competition in the Greek telecom market are resolved by the EETT and not by the Competition Committee which is responsible for ensuring competition in the Greek market (with the exception of telecommunications market).\n\nThe EETT is an independent authority of the Republic and as such has specific rights laid out in the Hellenic Constitution. Its members are elected by the Council of Presidents of the Hellenic Parliament. Nevertheless, under a new proposed law the EETT's board members will be appointed directly by the minister of transport and communications. This is feasible because the EETT is not exclusively named in the Hellenic Constitution as an independent authority of the Republic and thus the regulations concerning its board's election can be altered by law.\n\nSome of EETT's notable achievements are the new national numbering plan of the Hellenic Republic, the liberalisation of the fixed phone and data markets as well as the issue of the fourth GSM license to Q-telecom in 2001. It has also issued licenses in the fixed wireless band.\nFor the 2004 Olympic Games the EETT has developed a hi-tech spectrum control system that has managed to cope with the high spectral control needs of the Games.\n\nThe EETT logo is a white network map on a red background symbolizing \"the tree of communication\". The older logos featured stylished versions of the EETT lettering combined with a globe or a satellite pointing upwards. The new \"tree\" logo was introduced in the first quarter of 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257949", "title": "Kwanbuk", "text": "Kwanbuk\n\nKwanbuk is a region in North Hamgyong Province of North Korea. The region may once have been occupied by the Okjeo people. It was later controlled by Goguryeo and then Balhae, and subsequently contested by Goryeo and the Jin dynasty.\n\nIts literal meaning is \"North of the Ridge\", the ridge (Korean, \"kwan\") in question being Mach'ŏnnyŏng (Chosŏn'gŭl: 마천령, Hancha: 摩天嶺). \n\nThe term Kwanbuk is no longer widely used.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257954", "title": "John Devoy", "text": "John Devoy\n\nJohn Devoy (, ; 3 September 1842 – 29 September 1928) was an Irish rebel leader and exile. He owned and edited the \"Gaelic American\", a New York weekly newspaper, 1903-1928. Devoy dedicated over 60 years of his life to the cause of Irish independence. He was one of the few people to have played a role in the rebellion of 1867, the 1916 Rising and the Irish War of Independence (1919 - 1921).\n\nDevoy was born near Naas, County Kildare, on 3 September, 1842 the son of a farmer and labourer named William Devoy. After the famine, the family moved to Dublin where Devoy's mother obtained a job at Watkins' brewery. Devoy attended night school at the Catholic University before joining the Fenians. In 1861 he travelled to France with an introduction from Timothy Daniel Sullivan to John Mitchel. Devoy joined the French Foreign Legion and served in Algeria for a year before returning to Ireland to become a Fenian organiser in Naas, Co Kildare.\n\nIn 1865, when many Fenians were arrested, James Stephens, founder of the Irish Republican Brotherhood (IRB), appointed Devoy Chief Organiser of Fenians in the British Army in Ireland. His duty was to enlist Irish soldiers in the British Army into the IRB.\n\nIn November 1865 Devoy orchestrated Stephens' escape from Richmond Prison in Dublin.\n\nIn February 1866 an IRB Council of War called for an immediate uprising, but Stephens refused, to Devoy's annoyance, as he calculated the Fenian force in the British Army to number 80,000. The British got wind of the plan through informers and moved the regiments abroad, replacing them with regiments from Britain. Devoy was arrested in February 1866 and interned in Mountjoy Gaol, then tried for treason and sentenced to fifteen years penal servitude. In Portland Prison Devoy organised prison strikes and was moved to Millbank Prison in Pimlico, London.\n\nIn January 1871, he was released and exiled to the United States as one of the \"Cuba Five\". He received an address of welcome from the House of Representatives. Devoy became a journalist for the \"New York Herald\" and was active in Clan na Gael. Under Devoy's leadership, Clan na Gael became the central Irish republican organisation in the United States. In 1877 he aligned the organisation with the Irish Republican Brotherhood in Ireland.\n\nIn 1875, Devoy and John Boyle O'Reilly organised the escape of six Fenians from Fremantle Prison in Western Australia aboard the ship \"Catalpa\". In 1879, Devoy returned to Ireland to inspect Fenian centres and met Charles Kickham, John O'Leary and Michael Davitt en route in Paris; he convinced Davitt and Charles Stewart Parnell to co-operate in the \"New Departure\" during the growing Land War.\n\nDevoy's fundraising efforts and work to sway Irish-Americans to support physical force nationalism during World War I included attempts to assist the Easter Rising in 1916. In 1914, Padraig Pearse visited the elderly Devoy in America, and later the same year Roger Casement worked with Devoy in raising money for guns to arm the Irish Volunteers. Pearse, who was very impressed by Devoy's long and selfless dedication to the cause of Irish freedom, referred to Devoy as \"the greatest Fenian of them all\".\n\nAt the declaration of war between Britain and Germany on 14 August 1914, Sir Roger Casement and Devoy arranged a meeting in New York between the Western Hemisphere's top-ranking German diplomat, Count von Bernstorff, and a delegation of Clan-na-Gael men. The Clan delegates proposed a mutually beneficial plan: if Germany would sell guns to the Irish rebels and provide military leaders, the rebels would revolt against Britain, diverting troops and attention from the war with Germany. Von Bernstorff listened with evident sympathy and promised to relay the proposal to Berlin. Devoy decided to communicate directly with Berlin. At the time, Britain held control of the seas; within days of the start of the war it had cut the transatlantic cable. It would be necessary to send an envoy to deliver the message personally.\n\nJohn Kenny, president of the New York Clan na Gael, was sent. After meeting the German ambassador in Rome and presenting Devoy's plan, Kenny met in Germany with Count von Bulow. He then travelled to Dublin where he told Tom Clarke and other members of the Irish Republican Brotherhood of the arrangement, and carried back to Devoy the IRB's wishlist for guns, money, and military leaders. The details of Kenny's mission were later published in the Gaelic American.\n\nThough he was sceptical of the endeavour, Devoy financed and supported Casement's expedition to Germany to enlist German aid in the struggle to free Ireland from British rule, including Casement's Irish Brigade. Nervous of Casement's companion Adler Christensen, whom he discovered was a fraudster, and of Casement's decision to put the Irish Brigade at the Germans' disposal in Turkey, Devoy advised Casement to return to the USA, advice which was ignored.\n\nIn 1915 Joseph Plunkett visited Devoy in the US and Casement and diplomats in Germany, setting up a deal with the Germans that Ireland would remain independent if Germany helped the coming Easter Rising by supplying guns and expertise and an attack on Britain simultaneous with the Rising. These guns were supplied, in the SS Aud; Devoy was blamed by the leaders of the Rising for failing to follow instructions that the guns should arrive on Easter Sunday, set for the start of the Rising. The IRB men sent to meet the \"Aud\" drove off a pier in the dark and were drowned, and the boat was scuttled by its captain and the guns sent to the bottom of the sea. Casement was captured as a result of the same mistiming.\n\nIn 1916 Devoy played an important role in the formation of the Clan-dominated Friends of Irish Freedom at the third Irish Race Convention, a propaganda organisation whose membership totalled at one point 275,000. The Friends supported Woodrow Wilson for the presidency in 1916 because of his policy of American neutrality in the world war. Fearful of accusations of disloyalty for their co-operation with Germans and opposition to the United States' entering the war on the side of Great Britain, the Friends lowered their profile after April 1917, when America entered the war.\n\nWith the end of the war, Devoy played a key role in the Friends' advocacy for self-determination for Ireland, in line with Wilson's \"Fourteen Points\", as distinct from recognition by the United States of the sovereignty of the newly declared Irish Republic. Wilson did not guarantee recognition of the Republic, as declared in 1916 and reaffirmed in the popular election in 1918. American-Irish republicans challenged the Friends' refusal to campaign for American recognition of the Irish Republic.\n\nDevoy and the Friends' Daniel F. Cohalan became the key players in a transatlantic dispute with de facto Irish president Éamon de Valera, who toured the United States in 1919 and 1920 in hopes of gaining US recognition of the Republic and American funds. Devoy was scathingly critical of De Valera's visit, saying of him, \"This half-breed Jew has done me more harm in the last two years than the English have been able to do during my whole life.\" Believing that the Americans should follow Irish policy, de Valera formed the American Association for the Recognition of the Irish Republic in 1920 with help from the Philadelphia Clan na Gael. Devoy, who was suspicious of de Valera, had enormous admiration for Michael Collins, whom Devoy referred to as \"Ireland's Fighting Chief\". Diplomatic recognition was not yet forthcoming, and Irish-American groups refused to support Wilson. $5.5m was raised to aid the new Irish nation.\n\nDevoy never married and had no children. Around 1866 he was engaged to Eliza Kenny, the daughter of a local farmer. However his arrest, conviction and subsequent transportation meant the marriage did not go ahead. Kenny waited for Devoy's hopeful return, however she eventually married a man named Thomas Kilmurry in 1884.\n\nWhen Devoy returned to Ireland in 1924, Kenny (who was now an elderly lady and a widow) heard of the news and contacted Devoy's relatives in Dublin. Devoy was previously under the assumption that Kenny had died, however there was a confusion and it was actually Kenny's sister who had previously died. After not having seen each other for 58 years, Devoy visited Kenny, who was living with her niece in Naas. Devoy and Kenny continued correspondence after his return to the United States, up until her death in 1927 aged 81.\n\nDevoy supported the 1921 Anglo-Irish Treaty and the formation of the Irish Free State during the Irish Civil War. In 1924 Devoy triumphantly returned to Ireland as an honoured guest of the Cumann na nGaedheal Government of W. T. Cosgrave.\n\nDevoy was editor of the \"Gaelic American\" from 1903 until his death in Atlantic City on 29 September 1928. \n\nDevoy died on September 29, 1928 from natural causes while visiting Atlantic City, New Jersey. He was 86. His death caused widespread mourning. His body was returned to Ireland where a state funeral was held. He was buried in Glasnevin Cemetery in June 1929.. A large memorial to him stands on the road between his native Kill and Johnstown On 25 October 2016 a statue of Devoy was unveiled in Poplar Square, Naas, County Kildare.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257970", "title": "Everybody Loves a Lover", "text": "Everybody Loves a Lover\n\n\"Everybody Loves a Lover\" is a popular song which was a hit single for Doris Day in 1958. Its lyricist, Richard Adler, and its composer, Robert Allen, were both best known for collaborations with other partners. The music Allen composed, aside from this song, was usually for collaborations with Al Stillman, and Adler wrote the lyrics after the 1955 death of his usual composing partner, Jerry Ross.\n\nThe song's genesis was a comment made to Adler by his lawyer: \"You know what Shakespeare said: 'All the world loves a lover.'\" (In fact, this was a misattribution of a quote by Ralph Waldo Emerson.) Adler and Allen quickly wrote \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" in New York City. Doris Day and Adler knew each other through Day's having starred in the film version of \"The Pajama Game\" whose songs Adler and Ross had written (originally for the stage musical version of \"The Pajama Game\"), and Day had mentioned to Adler that she was looking for a new novelty song to record and Allen on a visit to Los Angeles presented \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" for consideration by Day, her husband-manager Marty Melcher, and Mitch Miller, who headed Columbia Records, for which company Day recorded. Although Day, Melcher and Miller all saw the song's potential as a hit for Day, Melcher made Day's recording of \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" conditional on the song's copyright being granted to Artists Music, the publishing firm he owned with Day – a condition to which Allen was not agreeable. However, after a few days, Melcher phoned Allen to say that Day would record the song without her and Melcher acquiring its publishing rights.\n\nDay recorded \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" in May 1958 with Frank DeVol producing and Earl Palmer on drums. Issued as Columbia catalog number 41195, \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" first reached the \"Billboard\" magazine charts on July 21, 1958. On the Disk Jockey chart, it peaked at number 6; on the Best Seller chart, at number 17; and on the Hot 100 composite chart, it reached number 14. The Doris Day version is noteworthy for the third verse, in which, through overdubbing, the first four lines of verse 2 are superimposed on the first four lines of verse 1, creating a counterpoint duet. The two segments end on the same word, \"Pollyanna\", sung in harmony. The song was Day's last big charting hit in the US, although she would hit number 4 in 1964 in the UK with the title song of her then-current movie \"Move Over, Darling\". The Doris Day version of \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" was used in the soundtrack for the BBC's period drama \"Call the Midwife\".\n\n\"Everybody Loves a Lover\" was remade by the Shirelles in 1962, reaching #19 in January 1963: this version, the group's final collaboration with producer Luther Dixon, replicates the backbeat and instrumentation of the Barbara George hit \"I Know (You Don't Love Me No More)\". \n\nBesides concurrent covers for the UK market by both the Undertakers and Cliff Bennett, the Shirelles' version of \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" was also the template for the Sandie Shaw version recorded for her 1965 \"Sandie\" album, and also the Peaches and Herb version recorded for their 1967 album \"For Your Love\". Also a live performance by Beryl Marsden of \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" with the Shirelles' version's arrangement was recorded at the Cavern Club in June 1963 and released on the multi-artist album \"At The Cavern\" released 1964. Checkmates, Ltd. released a version of the song as part of a medley on their 1967 debut album, \"Live! At Caesar's Palace\". Guy Mitchell also recorded the song in 1960.\n\nIn its original traditional pop format, \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" has also been recorded by The Angels (whose 1962 version bubbled under the Hot 100 with a #103 peak), Alice Babs (as \"Den som glad är\" ), Chisu (as \"Kellä Kulta, Sillä Onni\" ), Sacha Distel (as \"Dis! O Dis!\" ), Nana Gualdi (as \"Junge Leute Brauchen Liebe\" ), Jan Howard, Laila Kinnunen (as \"Kellä Kulta, Sillä Onni\" ), Lill-Babs (as \"Den som glad är\" ), Angélica María (as \"Vivaracho\" ), Guy Mitchell, Jane Morgan, Line Renaud (as \"Dis! O Dis!\" ), and Keely Smith. In 2010 Australian singer Melinda Schneider recorded the song for her Doris Day tribute album \"Melinda Does Doris.\" Instrumental versions have been recorded by Joe Loss and Shirley Scott.\n\nOn 19 November 2015 a remake of \"Everybody Loves a Lover\" by Scott Dreier and Jane Monheit was made available for download at the Doris Day Animal Foundation website in return for a $5 donation, all donations thus raised going in their entirety to the Doris Day Animal Foundation, the song's publishers as well as the artists having waived any royalties. Recorded at EastWest Studios, the track is a preview of Dreier's upcoming tribute CD \"The Doris Day Project\". \n"}
{"id": "2257973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257973", "title": "District Council of Kimba", "text": "District Council of Kimba\n\nThe District Council of Kimba is a local government area located on the northern Eyre Peninsula in South Australia. The district is mostly agricultural in nature, with the township of Kimba being the focal point of the district. With a number of towns positioned close to the Gawler Ranges, the district receives a modest amount of attention from tourists, who also stop by to see Kimba's Big Galah.\n\nPastoralists began colonising the area that would become the district in the early 1900s without many essential facilities such as road and water supplies. In 1913 the Port Lincoln Railway was extended to a new siding named 'Kimba', and two years later, the town of Kimba was officially proclaimed.\n\nWith new settlers to the area, the need for basic facilities was growing, the Kimba Vigilance Committee was established to lobby for the provision of these facilities. In 1925, the District Council of Kimba was established.\n\nSince 1925, the district has grown in size, with a number of areas being added during 1936–1937, and again in 1967.\n\nThe district's focal point is the town and council seat of Kimba; it also includes the localities of Barna, Cootra, Cortlinye, Cunyarie, Kelly, Moseley, Panitya, Solomon, Wilcherry and Yalanda, and part of Buckleboo, Caralue, Lake Gilles, Koongawa, Pinkawillinie and Waddikee.\n\nThe district has most essential facilities available including service stations, automotive repairers, laundromat, learning and business centre, accommodation, supermarkets, speciality shops, and many eating facilities.\n\nOther community services include a medical centre, a hospital, a library and school\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257974", "title": "Barry Andrews (politician)", "text": "Barry Andrews (politician)\n\nBarry Andrews (born 16 May 1967) is an Irish politician who serves as a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the Dublin constituency. He is a member of Fianna Fáil, part of Renew Europe. He previously served as Minister of State for Children from 2008 to 2011. He was a Teachta Dála (TD) for the Dún Laoghaire constituency from 2002 to 2011.\n\nThe Andrews family have a long connection with Fianna Fáil. Before entering political life, Andrews was a secondary school teacher. He was the Director-General of the Dublin-based Institute of International and European Affairs (IIEA), a partly Irish State-funded EU think tank, since 2017. He was CEO of GOAL from 2012 to 2016, during which the agency grew from a turnover of €60m to more than €150m. He announced his resignation to allow for ‘a fresh start in terms of leadership’ in October 2016 in the wake of a fraud in the charity that was discovered in March 2016.\n\nHe was born in Dublin and was educated at Blackrock College and University College Dublin (UCD), where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in English and Philosophy in 1988, and a Masters of Arts in Modern History in 1990. He worked as a secondary school teacher in Dublin from 1991 until 1997, working in Ballyfermot Senior College, Sutton Park School and Bruce College. While a secondary school teacher, he studied law at King's Inns and qualified as a barrister in 1997. His brother, David McSavage is a comedian, and his first cousin is the RTÉ television and radio presenter Ryan Tubridy.\n\nAndrews was first elected to public office in the June 1999 local elections as a Dún Laoghaire–Rathdown County Councillor. He was elected to Dáil Éireann at the 2002 general election. Andrews comes from a family with strong political connections. His grandfather, Todd Andrews, fought in the War of Independence and became a founder-member of Fianna Fáil, and his grandmother, Mary Coyle, was a member of Cumann na mBan. Andrews's father, David Andrews served as a TD from 1965 to 2002 and is a former Foreign Minister, while his uncle, Niall Andrews, was a former Fianna Fáil TD and MEP and his cousin, Chris Andrews (son of Niall Andrews), has been a Sinn Féin TD since 2020 (having previously served as a Fianna Fáil TD from 2007 to 2011). In April 2018, Andrews was described as \"part of Fianna Fáil royalty\".\n\nIn June 2006, Andrews led a group of Fianna Fáil backbenchers in an unsuccessful attempt to establish a backbench committee to influence government policy. At the 2007 general election, Andrews retained his seat in Dún Laoghaire with 8,587 votes.\n\nAndrews was appointed Minister of State for Children in May 2008. As Minister, he framed the Government response to the Ryan Report on Institutional Abuse. This included an Implementation Plan that delivered an additional 200 social workers for the HSE Child and Family Services. In April 2009, Andrews introduced the Early Childhood Care and Education (ECCE) Scheme, which provided, for the first time, free universal access to pre-school education. The scheme benefited 65,000 children in 2013.\n\nAfter the release of the Murphy Report into child abuse in the Dublin diocese in November 2009, Andrews, speaking at a conference in Dublin Castle, said it would be \"amazing\" if there were no consequences for people who were the subject of adverse findings in the report. Asked about the position of the Bishop of Limerick, Donal Murray, the Minister said, \"I think it's everybody's view that if adverse findings are made against an individual in a commission of inquiry then it would be amazing that there be no consequences for them.\". Bishop Murray subsequently apologised to survivors and resigned from office.\n\nIn December 2009, Andrews oversaw the introduction of government policy to lower the legal age of consent to 16. Citing a Joint Oireachtas Committee on the Constitution report which recommended the legal age be reduced to 16 from the current 17. Andrews expressed the view the existing laws were \"inappropriate\" and out of touch with the modern reality of sexual relations between young people, and promised to publish legislation to change the Age of Consent to 16. He noted that Ireland and Malta were \"the only countries in Europe with an age of consent of 17\". However, the law was not passed by the Oireachtas before the 2011 Irish general election in which Fianna Fáil ceded power to a Fine Gael-Labour coalition.\n\nOn 31 January 2011, in the run up to the general election, Andrews was named Health spokesman by the party leader, Micheál Martin. He lost his seat at the general election. For his eight years' service as a TD, Andrews was entitled to a lump sum of €110,312, a partial TD's pension between the ages of 45 and 49 (which he has not claimed), and beginning at age 50 a full pension of approximately €16,000 per year. He is entitled to a ministerial pension of approximately €9,000 from the age of 65.\n\nIn September 2012, he was appointed Fianna Fáil Director of Elections for the Children's referendum.\n\nIn February 2019, he was selected as the Fianna Fáil candidate for the Dublin constituency at the 2019 European Parliament election. He was elected in May 2019 receiving 14.1% of the 1st preference votes, but as the fourth candidate elected he did not take his seat until after the UK left the European Union on 31 January 2020.\n\nIn November 2012, Andrews was appointed chief executive of the Irish aid charity GOAL, replacing the retiring founder John O'Shea. In October 2016, Andrews resigned from GOAL after it was revealed that other senior executives of Goal had been involved in \"large-scale fraud\", though there was no suggestion that he himself was involved in the scandal. In October 2017, the new CEO of GOAL announced a deficit of €31.6 million due to the fraud but said that it would survive after \"one of the most challenging years\" in its 40-year history.\n\nIn March 2017, Andrews was appointed as Director-General of the Irish State-supported EU think tank and advocacy body, the Institute of International and European Affairs (IIEA), with the Chairperson of the IIEA, former Leader of the Labour Party, Ruairi Quinn, describing Andrews as having the \"political and administrative skills\" of value to the IIEA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257976", "title": "Tanglin Police Division", "text": "Tanglin Police Division\n\nThe Tanglin Police Division or 'E' Division, is one of the seven land divisions of the Singapore Police Force. Tanglin Division oversees the safety and security of the central region in Singapore. The division's policing jurisdiction covers several areas which include residential estates, schools, hospitals, hotels, embassies, as well as iconic buildings such as the Istana and the Interpol Global Complex for Innovation. The division is also responsible for upholding law and order in popular retail and entertainment districts such as Orchard Road and Clarke Quay. \n\nThe Tanglin Division Headquarters was formerly located at 17 Napier Road and the building was officially opened on 3 June 1981 by then Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Chua Sian Chin. As part of continual efforts to modernise the Force, Tanglin Division Headquarters was relocated on 6 May 2001 to its current premises at 21 Kampong Java Road.\n\nTanglin Division was headquartered at Orchard Police Station in the Orchard Road area, before moving to Tanglin Police Station at 17 Napier Road, Singapore 258506 between Orchard Road and the Botanical Gardens in 1980. Tanglin Police Station was opened by the then Minister for Home Affairs, Mr Chua Sian Chin, in June 1981. When the Toa Payoh Police Division was closed in 1988, 'E' Division took over half its areas of control while Ang Mo Kio Police Division took over the rest.\n\nWith the implementation of the NPC system in July 2001, the headquarters was moved to its present site at 21 Kampong Java Road, Singapore 228892 on 6 May 2001.\n\n\nIn March 2016, a police constable took photos of policewomen showering at the female locker room of Tanglin Division Headquarters. The constable was jailed for nine months on three charges - perverting the course of justice, insulting the modesty of a woman and attempting to do so. Eight other charges were taken into consideration in sentencing, where a jail term was of the serious aggravating factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257981", "title": "Kwannam", "text": "Kwannam\n\nKwannam () is a traditional Korean term used to refer to the southern region of Hamgyong province, including portions of modern-day North Hamgyong and South Hamgyong, North Korea. Its literal meaning is \"South of the Ridge\", the ridge (Korean, \"kwan\")in question being Mach'ŏnnyŏng 마천령 摩天嶺. The term is no longer in common use.\n\n"}
{"id": "2257984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257984", "title": "Teocalli", "text": "Teocalli\n\nA teocalli (Nahuatl: \"God-house\") is a Mesoamerican pyramid surmounted by a temple. The pyramid is terraced, and some of the most important religious rituals in Pre-Columbian Mexico took place in the temple at the top of the pyramid.\n\nThe famous, although no longer extant, Aztec \"Huey Teocalli\" (\"Great Temple,\" Spanish, Templo Mayor) was located next to what is now Mexico City's main square, the Zócalo. A famous 1848 painting by Emanuel Leutze depicts \"The Storming of Teocalli by Cortez and his Troops\", which Leutze painted four years before his classic \"Washington Crossing the Delaware\".\n\nOne of the Cuban poet José María Heredia's best-known poems is titled \"En el teocalli de Cholula\".\n\nAlso used in modern context by Chicano people involved in the Native American Church. Chicano chapters of the Native American Church refer to the organization as a \"teocalli\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2257987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257987", "title": "Finn (comics)", "text": "Finn (comics)\n\nFinn is a fictional pagan warlock eco-terrorist created by Pat Mills. He first appeared in British fortnightly anthology comic \"Crisis\" in 1989 in the strip \"Third World War\" and later moved to an eponymous series in \"2000 AD\" after \"Crisis\" was cancelled in 1991.\n\nThe character was popular but the series ended in 1996. According to David Bishop the reason the character was suspended was due to concerns that he was in danger of duplicating the appeal of Mills's \"Sláine\". Mills has speculated that part of the reason was because some readers were complaining in the letters page about Finn \"being a sinister witch and saying his authentic pagan practices were a bad example to readers\".\n\nFinn is the alias of Paul. In \"Third World War\" it is established that Paul was once a soldier in the British Army stationed in Northern Ireland, but he deserted to become Finn, an eco-terrorist fighting to save the planet from multi-national corporations.\n\n\"Third World War\" starts as a relatively down-to-earth story set in 2000, with very little in the way of fantasy or science fiction but that changes as Finn becomes more prominent.\n\nIn the eponymous strip in \"2000 AD\" it emerges that the leaders of the corporations are in fact a secret society of powerful aliens called Newts. In this strip Finn is a Cornish mini-cab driver by day, and a white witch fighting the aliens by night. He uses military equipment alongside magical items such as the Hand of Glory.\n\nHe has appeared first as a supporting character in the series \"Third World War\" in the comics magazine \"Crisis\" then in the eponymous strip in \"2000 AD\":\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257996", "title": "List of GM bellhousing patterns", "text": "List of GM bellhousing patterns\n\nThe following is a list of GM bellhousing patterns. Though General Motors has manufactured many different engines, it has kept variance in the bell housing patterns to a relative minimum.\n\nThis was so named because it began with Chevrolet's V8 engines.\n\nThis pattern has a distinctive odd-sided hexagonal shape. Rear wheel drive applications have the starter mounted on the right side of the block (when viewed from the flywheel) and on the opposite side of the block compared to front wheel drive installations. The 2.2l S10/Sonoma had the starter located in the same position as front wheel drive cars. A rear wheel drive bellhousing is displayed at right.\n\nNearly identical to the GM small corporate/metric pattern, except that the starter is located between the cylinder banks, and the lower right bolt hole is moved outward by roughly one inch. Being nearly identical, it too has the distinctive odd-sided hexagonal shape. These engines can be fitted in rear wheel drive vehicles with the right bellhousing and are used in hot rods, kit cars, sand rails and late model engine swaps.\n\nAtlas family engines use a unique bellhousing pattern which no other GM motors share.\n\n\n\nFour bolt holes and two locator pins are common to the Chevrolet, and B-O-P patterns. Some transmissions, most notably the TH200-4R, take advantage of this by integrating both specifications into a \"universal\" bolt pattern casting.\n\nEarly Cadillacs manufactured before 1965 used a \"round top\" bellhousing very similar to early Buicks; around 1965, the bellhousing pattern was revised until the BOP bolt pattern was adopted in 1968.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2257999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257999", "title": "Ground pine", "text": "Ground pine\n\nGround pine or ground-pine may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "2258000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258000", "title": "Karl, Freiherr von Prel", "text": "Karl, Freiherr von Prel\n\nKarl Ludwig August Friedrich Maximilian Alfred, Freiherr von Prel, or, in French, Carl Ludwig August Friedrich Maximilian Alfred, Baron du Prel (3 April 1839 – 4 August 1899), was a German philosopher and writer on mysticism and the occult. In the literature it has become customary to refer to him under various abbreviated French forms of his name, usually \"Carl Du Prel,\" \"Baron Carl Du Prel,\" or simply \"Baron Du Prel.\"\n\nHe was born at Landshut. After studying at the University of Munich he served in the Bavarian army from 1859 to 1872, when he retired with the rank of captain. He then gave himself up to philosophical work, especially in connection with the phenomena of hypnotism and occultism from the modern psychological standpoint. He attempted to deduce the existence of spirit, apart from, and yet entering from time to time into connection with, the phenomena of the senses, by an examination of the relation between the ego of thought and the age of sensible experience as understood by Immanuel Kant. In 1868 he received the degree of doctor from the University of Tübingen in recognition of a treatise on the psychology of dreams (\"Oneirokritikon. Der Traum vom Standpunkt des transcendentalen Idealismus\").\n\ndu Prel sought to combine early parapsychological research and Kantian transcendental idealism to argue that mystical experiences were universal and subjective, paralleling a similar argument made by William James.\n\nSubsequently, he published numerous works on various psychological and scientific subjects, of which the more important are:\n\n\"Der gesunde Menschenverstand vor den Problemen der Wissenschaft\" (1872); \"Der Kampf ums Dasein am Himmel\" (1874), republished in 1882 under the title \"Entwickelungsgeschichte des Weltalls\"; \"Die Planetenbewohner and die Nebularhypothese \" (1880); \"Die Philosophie der Mystik\" (1885); \"Justinus Kerner und die Seherin von Prevorst\" (1886); \"Die monistische Seelenlehre\" (1888); \"Die Mystik der alten Griechen\" (1888); \"Kants mystische Weltanschauung\" (1889); \"Studien aus dem Gebiete der Geheimwissenschaften\" (1890); \"Der Spiritismus\" (1893); \"Die Entdeckung der Seele durch die Geheimwissenschaften\" (1894–1895).\n\nIn \"Der Kampf ums Dasein am Himmel\", von Prel endeavoured to apply the Darwinian doctrine of biological evolution not only to the sphere of consciousness but also even more widely as the philosophical principle of the world. He was one of a large number of German thinkers who, during the latter half of the nineteenth century, endeavored to treat the mind as a mechanism. His interest in Darwinism was also tied to a belief in extraterrestrial life.\n\nAlthough today regarded mostly as an obscure figure in the history of occultism, in his own lifetime du Prel was widely respected as a scientist and philosopher. The fourth edition of Sigmund Freud's \"The Interpretation of Dreams\" (1914) positively cites du Prel as both a mystic and one whose conclusions parallel and apply Freud's work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258005", "title": "Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course", "text": "Mid-Ohio Sports Car Course\n\nMid-Ohio Sports Car Course is a road course auto racing facility located in Troy Township, Morrow County, Ohio, United States, just outside the village of Lexington. Mid-Ohio has also colloquially become a term for the entire north-central region of the state, from south of Sandusky to the north of Columbus.\n\nThe track opened as a 15-turn, 2.4-mile (3.86 km) road circuit run clockwise. The back portion of the track allows speeds approaching . A separate starting line is located on the backstretch to allow for safer rolling starts. The regular start / finish line is located on the pit straight.\n\nIn 1990 the track underwent a refurbishment. A new retaining wall was built, the entire track was resurfaced, widened and concrete was paved in the apexes of the turns to prevent asphalt deterioration. In addition, a straightaway was paved through the chicane, allowing for two different track layouts, the original circuit and a new 13-turn, 2.258 mile (3.634 km) circuit. In 1990, the CART series, along with other racing series, began utilizing the layout. \n\nIn 2006 a second major refurbishment saw several improvements. The entire circuit was repaved and the concrete patches in the turn apexes were removed. A new motorcycle \"short course\" was created by connecting turn one with the backstretch and another motorcycle oval was created by connecting the chicane straight with the backstretch. The additional layouts allow simultaneous use of the multiple course, for instructional and competitive uses. The improvements also included a motocross facility, that has since been used for the AMA Vintage Motorcycle days event.\n\nIn 2019 the ARX came to the track which was the first time rallycross had come to the circuit. The course was a 10-turn, 0.7 mile (1.13 km) and utilized the keyhole section of the track. \n\nThere is grandstand seating for 10,000 spectators and three observation mounds alongside the track raise the capacity to over 75,000. Mid-Ohio is classified as an FIA Grade Two circuit.\n\nThe track was opened in 1962 by Les Griebling and several Mansfield-area businessmen as a location for weekend sports car racing. The track originally had 16 turns, with a left turn in what is today known as \"thunder valley,\" but the turn was straightened after just one year of operation. The track hosted Can-am and F5000 through the 1970s and in 1980, it would host its first CART race with Johnny Rutherford taking victory with Chaparral.\n\nIn 1982 Mid-Ohio was purchased by Jim Trueman, a renowned road racer and the founder of Red Roof Inns. Trueman added permanent grandstands, amphitheater-style seating, garages with spectator balconies, a five-story media and hospitality center, tunnels and an updated paddock area. In addition, a tall, three-sided scoreboard tower was constructed in the infield, strategically placed such that it was visible from nearly all spectator areas around the track. Trueman's daughter, Michelle Trueman Gajoch, was named the president in 1989 and saw day-to-day operations of the circuit. \n\nIn 1990 the track underwent a refurbishment. A new retaining wall was built, the entire track was resurfaced, widened, and concrete was paved in the apexes of the turns to prevent asphalt deterioration. In addition, a straightaway was paved through the chicane, allowing for two different track layouts, the original circuit and a new 13-turn, 2.258 mile (3.634 km) circuit.\n\nIn 2006 the track again underwent extensive renovation. The track and pit lane were completely resurfaced and connectors were added to the track's famed Keyhole section to allow for three separate road course configurations. Also completed was the removal of concrete patches from the track, the relocation of the wall and guardrail at Turn 1, the expansion of gravel traps at the exits of Turn 1 and the keyhole, the replacement of all remaining old-style catch fencing and the standardization of curbing throughout the circuit. These changes have resulted in a faster, safer, more competitive and attractive facility for drivers, riders and race fans.\n\nOn March 2, 2011 it was announced that the track had been purchased from Truesports by Green Savoree Racing Promotions, which also promotes other IndyCar races, ending Truesports' 29 years of ownership. \n\nThe had first hosted SportsCar racing in 1963 as part of the United States Road Racing Championship. The race was 168 miles (270 km) and was won by Ken Miles. The race would be held until the race series was folded in 1968, but the race would return as a 6-hour enduro under the IMSA GT championship in 1972. The track would also hold the U.S. Formula 5000 series from 1970–1976 and was replaced by the revived Can-Am series in 1977–1980. The track continued to host IMSA GT until 1993, and would not return until 2000 with Grand-Am Rolex Sports Car Series. The track would also add the American Le Mans series the next year. The track continued to host the two series until 2012 when ALMS dropped the race, Grand-Am would follow suit the next year. In 2018, track would host the WeatherTech SportsCar championship.\n\nMid-Ohio would host its first CART race in 1980 as a 156 miles (251.057 km), 65 lap race. There would be a brief hiatus as the race would not return until 1983, and the race would be extended as a 200 mile (324.443 km) race. Cart appeared annually until 2003, when CART president Chris Pook hinted at dropping Mid-Ohio from the CART schedule going forward, citing various issues. For many years, Mid-Ohio was on the schedule alongside the Grand Prix of Cleveland, and Pook stated it was not viable to have two races in such close proximity, and favored keeping the race at Cleveland instead. In addition, some observers felt that the powerful Champ Cars had \"outgrown\" the narrow, winding course, citing a lack of passing and competition over the previous several years. The race would return in 2007 under the Indy racing league and would partner as a doubleheader with the American Le Mans Series until 2012 when ALMS dropped the circuit from the calendar. The race has also featured support series such as the Road to Indy, Global Mazda MX-5 Cup, and Stadium Super Trucks.\n\nIn 2013, the track hosted its first NASCAR event as a 200-mile race with the NASCAR Xfinity Series. The length of the race was shortened in 2018 to 170 miles. The race has partnered with Trans-Am, Stadium Super Trucks, F4 United States Championship and partnered ARCA in 2020. Unlike most of the events held at the track, the Xfinity Series actually uses the normal start/finish line located on the pit straight to start the races, instead of the start line on the back straight.\n\nFounded in 1993, The Mid-Ohio School offers licensed drivers and motorcycle riders programs in defensive driving, high performance driving and performance track riding programs. Students in each course partake in classroom and private instruction and group drills. Participants test their newly-refined skills in the controlled environment of the facility's Vehicle Dynamics Center and on the track.\n\nThe Mid-Ohio School is AAA Approved and recognized as a recent recipient of the Ohio State Highway Patrol’s Partners for Safety award. 18 programs are available to drivers and riders of all ages and ability levels from defensive driving programs for teens and adults, on-track high performance courses for the automotive enthusiasts to current and aspiring racers.\n\nThere have been over 50,000 graduates from the Mid-Ohio School, including 18,500 teenagers and 13,300 motorcycle riders.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258017", "title": "Ted Elliott (screenwriter)", "text": "Ted Elliott (screenwriter)\n\nTed Elliott (born July 4, 1961) is an American screenwriter and film producer. Along with his writing partner Terry Rossio, Elliott has written some of the most successful American films of the past 30 years, including \"Aladdin\" (1992), \"Shrek\" (2001) and the \"Pirates of the Caribbean\" series (2003-11).\n\nHe was attached to write a feature version of \"Monkey Island\", which never happened.\n\nIn 2004, he was elected to the Board of Directors of the Writers Guild of America; his term on the board ended in 2006. In 2005, Elliott ran for president of the Writers Guild of America, west, but lost to animation writer and historical figurine maker Patric Verrone. Verrone received 1301 votes; Elliott received 591.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258021", "title": "Troy Garity", "text": "Troy Garity\n\nTroy O'Donovan Garity (born July 7, 1973) is an American film actor. He was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Miniseries or Television Film for his role as Barry Winchell in the television movie \"Soldier's Girl\" (2003).\n\nGarity was born in Los Angeles, California, to actress/activist Jane Fonda and activist/politician Tom Hayden. His parents gave him the last name Garity, the surname of his paternal grandmother. He grew up in Santa Monica. His half-sister is director and cinematographer Vanessa Vadim. His adopted sister is activist Mary Williams.\n\nThrough his mother, Garity is the grandson of New York socialite Frances Ford Seymour and actor Henry Fonda, and a nephew of actor Peter Fonda. His cousins include actress Bridget Fonda. His father is of Irish descent and his mother's ancestry includes Dutch, English, French, German, and Irish.\n\nGarity made his first onscreen appearance as an infant, when his parents carried him through their Vietnam travelogue, \"Introduction to the Enemy\" (1974). He began acting as a child at Santa Barbara's Laurel Springs Camp for the Arts. He made an uncredited appearance in the film \"On Golden Pond\" (1981), trained at the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in NYC, and became a member of the Academy Repertory Company, performing in a number of stage productions.\n\nGarity has appeared in numerous film productions. He played his father in the film \"Steal This Movie\" (2000) based on the life of Yippie founder Abbie Hoffman. His portrayal of Isaac Rosenberg in the film \"Barbershop\" (2002) proved to be his breakout role, and he reprised it in \"\" (2004) and \"\" (2016) – though in the latter, his role is significantly reduced to a cameo appearance. He also starred as Harvey in the Danny Boyle/Alex Garland film \"Sunshine\" (2007) and as the tormented survivor of a tragic family accident in \"Lake City\" (2008).\n\nIn 1998, Garity was named one of \"People\" magazine's \"50 Most Beautiful People\".\n\nFor his portrayal of Barry Winchell in the film \"Soldier's Girl\" (2003), Garity earned a Golden Globe nomination for Best Actor in a Miniseries or a Motion Picture Made for Television and in 2002 he won the Young Hollywood Award for a Standout Performance.\n\nOn August 27, 2007, Garity married actress Simone Bent at Columbia University's St. Paul's Chapel. Garity is the founder of the Peace Process Network, an international gang violence prevention coalition, and he is the chairman of Homies Unidos, a gang violence prevention group in Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258033", "title": "Lemon Tree Passage, New South Wales", "text": "Lemon Tree Passage, New South Wales\n\nLemon Tree Passage is a suburb of the Port Stephens local government area in the Hunter Region of New South Wales, Australia, located at the end of the Tilligerry Peninsula and surrounded by the waters of Port Stephens. At the 2011 census it had a population of 2,547. It is a haven for koalas due to it being densely wooded. The town has a small marina and the local industry is oyster farming.\n\nThe suburb is separated from nearby Bulls Island by a small strait which is also known as Lemon Tree Passage.\n\nLemon Tree Passage has been the focus of an urban legend that states that if a motorist speeds down Lemon Tree Passage Road, they will experience supernatural phenomena. This urban legend provided the focus for the 2013 horror/thriller film \"Lemon Tree Passage\".\n"}
{"id": "2258039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258039", "title": "Archbishop of Albania", "text": "Archbishop of Albania\n\nArchbishop of Tirana, Durrës and All Albania or simply Archbishop of Albania (Albanian: \"Kryepeshkopi i Tiranës, Durrësit dhe gjithë Shqipërisë\") is the primate of the Orthodox Autocephalous Church of Albania.He is also head of the Holy Synod.\n\nThe first Archbishop was Visarion Xhuvani. The current Archbishop is Anastasios of Albania.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258043", "title": "Lemon Tree Passage", "text": "Lemon Tree Passage\n\nLemon Tree Passage may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258050", "title": "Democratic People's Party (South Korea)", "text": "Democratic People's Party (South Korea)\n\nThe Democratic People's Party is a minor conservative political party of South Korea. It was formed in 2000 by disaffected members of the Grand National Party. In the 2000 election, two members were elected to the National Assembly.\n\nA political party by the same name existed during the 1950s, during the First Republic of South Korea.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258051", "title": "John Stevenson (scriptwriter)", "text": "John Stevenson (scriptwriter)\n\nJohn Stevenson (born 1937) is a British screenwriter who, between 1976 and 2006, was a regular writer on Britain's longest-running soap opera, Coronation Street. \nHe was originally a newspaper journalist, before transitioning into screenwriting in the late 1960s. He co-wrote the popular comedy drama, \"Brass\" with Coronation Street scriptwriter, Julian Roach in the 1980s and in 1994, the sitcom, \"Mother's Ruin\", starring Roy Barraclough. However, this was not a ratings success and only ran to one series.\n\nOther series has written for include \"The Last of the Baskets\", \"Nearest and Dearest\", \"How's Your Father?\", \"The Brothers McGregor\" and \"Oh Doctor Beeching!\".\n"}
{"id": "2258054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258054", "title": "First Republic of Korea", "text": "First Republic of Korea\n\nThe First Republic of Korea () was the government of South Korea from August 1948 to April 1960. The First Republic was founded on 15 August 1948 after the transfer from the United States Army Military Government that governed South Korea since the end of Japanese rule in 1945, becoming the first independent capitalist republican government in Korea. Syngman Rhee became the first President of Korea following the May 1948 general election, and the National Assembly in Seoul promulgated South Korea's first constitution in July establishing a democratic presidential system of government.\n\nThe First Republic claimed sovereignty over the entire Korean Peninsula but only held power south of the 38th parallel until the end of the Korean War in 1953 when the border was modified. The First Republic was characterized by Rhee's authoritarianism and corruption, limited economic development, strong anti-communism, and by the late 1950s growing political instability and public opposition to Rhee. The April Revolution in April 1960 led to Rhee's resignation and the transition to the Second Republic of South Korea.\n\nRhee was supported in the elections by the Korea Democratic Party, but didn't include any of its members in his cabinet. In retaliation, the members of the party formed a united opposition Democratic Nationalist Party, and began to advocate a cabinet system which would remove power from the president. This led to a regrouping of the Rhee faction into the Nationalist Party, which later became the Liberal Party, and remained Rhee's base throughout his administration. The country's second parliamentary elections were held on May 30, 1950, and gave the majority of seats to independents.\n\nThe South Korean government continued many of the practices of the U.S. military government. This included the brutal repression of leftist activity. The Rhee government continued the harsh military action against the Jeju Uprising. It also crushed military uprisings in Suncheon and Yeosu, which were provoked by orders to sail to Jeju and participate in the crackdown.\n\nThis government oversaw several prewar massacres, the most notable being the Bodo League massacre where between 100,000 and 1,140,000 were executed on suspicion of supporting communism.\n\nOn June 25, 1950, North Korean forces invaded South Korea, starting the Korean War. Led by the United States, a 16-member coalition undertook the first collective action under the umbrella of the U.N. Command (UNC). Oscillating battle lines inflicted a high number of civilian casualties and wrought immense destruction. With the People's Republic of China's entry on behalf of North Korea in 1951, the fighting came to a stalemate close to the original line of demarcation.\n\nArmistice negotiations, initiated in July 1951, finally concluded on July 27, 1953 at Panmunjom, now in the Demilitarized Zone (DMZ). The resulting Armistice Agreement was signed by the North Korean army, Chinese People's Volunteers and the U.S.-led and South Korean-supported United Nations Command. A peace treaty has not been signed up to now. Following the armistice, the South Korean government returned to Seoul on the symbolic date of August 15, 1953.\n\nAfter the armistice, South Korea experienced political turmoil under years of Syngman Rhee's monarchy, which was ended by student revolt in 1960. Throughout his rule, Rhee sought to take additional steps to cement his control of the government. These began in 1952 (shortly after being elected to a second term), when the government was still based in Busan due to the ongoing war. In May of that year, Rhee pushed through constitutional amendments which made the presidency a directly-elected position. In order to do this, he declared martial law and jailed the members of parliament whom he expected to vote against it. Rhee was subsequently elected by a wide margin. He regained control of parliament in the 1954 elections, and thereupon pushed through an amendment to exempt himself from the eight-year term limit.\n\nRhee's prospects for reelection during the presidential campaign of 1956 initially seemed dim. Public disillusionment regarding his attempt to seek a third term was growing, and the main opposition candidate Shin Ik-hee drew immense crowds during his campaign. Shin's sudden death while on the campaign trail, however, allowed Rhee to win the presidency with ease. The runner-up of that election, Cho Bong-am of the Progressive Party, was later charged with espionage and executed in 1959.\n\nThe events of 1960, known as the April Revolution, were touched off by the violent repression of a student demonstration in Masan on the day of the presidential election, March 15. Initially, these protests were quelled by local police, but they broke out again after the body of a student was found floating in the harbor. Subsequently, nonviolent protests spread to Seoul and throughout the country, and Rhee resigned on April 26.\n\nThis period saw explosive growth in education at all levels, even during the turmoil of the Korean War. The First Republic saw the full implementation of an educational system that had been sketched out by the Council for Korean Education under USAMGIK. This education was shaped by the ideal of \"Hongik Ingan\", the person who is a benefit to all, and sought to prepare students for participation in a democratic society. Some contend that this democratic education contributed to the student protests which brought down the authoritarian Rhee government in 1960.\n\nThe first Education Law came into force on December 31, 1949. The most important aspect of this was the introduction of universal compulsory education at the primary level. This requirement led to widespread school construction; by the end of the First Republic, primary-school enrollment had topped 95%. In addition, the dual ladder system used by the Japanese occupation government was replaced by a single-ladder system, with 6 years of primary education, 3 of middle-school education, 3 of high-school education, and 4 of college education.\n\nThis period also saw the adoption of South Korea's first national curriculum.\n\nThe economy of this period was deeply troubled.\n\nDuring 1945–1950, United States and South Korean authorities carried out a land reform that retained the institution of private property. They confiscated and redistributed all land held by the Japanese colonial government, Japanese companies, and individual Japanese colonists. The South Korean government carried out a reform whereby South Koreans with large landholdings were obliged to divest most of their land. A new class of independent, family proprietors was created.\n\nRhee sought to align his government strongly with the United States, and against both North Korea and Japan. The policy of the First Republic on North Korea, before and after the Korean War, was one of \"unification by force.\" Although some talks towards normalization of relations with Japan took place, they achieved little. Meanwhile, the government took in vast sums of American aid, in amounts sometimes near the total size of the national budget.\n\nOn January 18, 1952, Rhee declared South Korean sovereignty over the waters around the Korean Peninsula, in a concept similar to that of today's exclusive economic zones. The maritime demarcation thus drawn up, which Rhee called the \"Peace Line\", included Liancourt Rocks as South Korean territory.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258060", "title": "Andriy Serdinov", "text": "Andriy Serdinov\n\nAndriy Serdinov (born November 17, 1982) is a Ukrainian swimmer, who competed in the 2000 Olympics, 2004 Olympics and the 2008 Olympics. Serdinov also won the bronze medal in the 100 m butterfly at the 2004 Summer Olympics.\n\nSerdinov was also the world record holder in this event, which stood for approximately five minutes. He broke Michael Klim's mark during the semifinals of the World Championships in Barcelona, Spain, in 2003, only to have Michael Phelps break it in the next semifinal. It was later again broken by Ian Crocker in the final, the day after.\n\nIn 2003 he won two golds at the Summer Universiade, in the 50 m and 100 m butterfly.\n"}
{"id": "2258063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258063", "title": "Comadur", "text": "Comadur\n\nComadur is a Swiss manufacturing company, based in the town of Le Locle, near La Chaux-de-Fonds. It is part of the Swatch Group and specializes in producing jewel bearing stones, sapphire crystals and ceramic components for the watch making industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258076", "title": "Lårdal", "text": "Lårdal\n\nLårdal is a former municipality in Telemark county, Norway. Lårdal is a small village located next to the lake Bandak, in the eastern parts of the county Telemark. Lårdal was earlier its own municipality, but in 1964 it made a larger municipality together with Mo, called Tokke. There is a church, a school and a place where you can buy fast food. Three years ago Lårdal had its own grocery store, but because of the low population in Lårdal, they had to close it down. Now, the people living in Lårdal have to go to Høydalsmo to buy food. Lårdal is also home to the former journalist and television presenter Bjørn Honerød. \n\nThe parish of \"Laurdal\" was established as a municipality January 1, 1838 (see formannskapsdistrikt). On 1 January 1964 a merger took place between Lårdal and Mo, creating the new municipality Tokke. Before the merger Lårdal had a population of 1,929. \n\nThe Old Norse form of the name was \"Lagardalr\". The first element is the genitive case of \"lǫgr\" m 'water, river', the last element is \"dalr\" m 'dale, valley'. (For a similar name see > Lardal.)\n\nUntil 1884 the name was written \"Laurdal\", in the period 1884-1920 \"Laardal\", from 1921 on \"Lårdal\".\n"}
{"id": "2258083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258083", "title": "Dirac fermion", "text": "Dirac fermion\n\nIn physics, a Dirac fermion is spin  particle (a fermion) which is different from its antiparticle. The vast majority of fermions – perhaps all – fall under this category.\n\nIn particle physics all fermions in the standard model have distinct antiparticles (\"perhaps\" excepting neutrinos) and hence are Dirac fermions. They are named for Paul Dirac, and can be modeled with the Dirac equation.\n\nA Dirac fermion is equivalent to two Weyl fermions. The counterpart to a Dirac fermion is a Majorana fermion, a particle that must be its own antiparticle.\n\nIn condensed matter physics, low-energy excitations in graphene and topological insulators, among others, are fermionic quasiparticles described by a pseudo-relativistic Dirac equation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258089", "title": "Karl Heinrich Rau", "text": "Karl Heinrich Rau\n\nKarl Heinrich Rau (23 November 1792 – 18 March 1870) was a German political economist.\n\nRau was born at Erlangen, Bavaria. He studied from 1808 to 1812 at the University of Erlangen, where he afterwards remained as a Privatdozent. In 1814 he obtained the prize offered by the academy of Göttingen for the best treatment of the question how the disadvantages arising from the abolition of trade guilds might be removed. His memoir, greatly enlarged, was published in 1816 under the title \"Über das Zunftwesen und die Folgen seiner Aufhebung\". In the same year appeared his \"Primae lineae historiae politices\".\n\nIn 1818 he became professor at Erlangen. In 1822 he was called to the chair of political economy at Heidelberg where the rest of his life was spent, in the main, in teaching and research. He took some part, however, in public affairs: in 1837 he was nominated a member of the first chamber of the Duchy of Baden, and in 1851 he was one of the commissioners sent to England on the part of the Zollverein to study the Industrial Exhibition. A result of this mission was his account of the agricultural implements exhibited at London (\"Die landwirthschaftlichen Geräthe der Londoner Ausstellung\", 1853). He was elected a corresponding member of the French Institute in 1856. He died at Heidelberg on 18 March 1870.\n\nHis principal work is the \"Lehrbuch der politischen Ökonomie\" (1826–37), an encyclopaedia of the economic knowledge of his time, written with a special view to the guidance of practical men. The three volumes are respectively occupied with (1) political economy, properly so called, or the theory of wealth, (2) administrative science (\"Volkswirthschaftspolitik\") and (3) finance. The two last he recognizes as admitting of variations in accordance with the special circumstances of different countries, while the first is more akin to the exact sciences, and is in many respects capable of being treated, or at least illustrated, mathematically. On economics, he adopts the general position of Adam Smith and Say, but retains a tendency to advocate the extension of the economic functions of the state.\n\nThe threefold division of this work marks his close relation to the older German cameralistic writers, with whose works he was familiarly acquainted. It is a consequence in part of his conformity to their method and his attention to administrative applications that his treatise was found peculiarly adapted for the use of the official class and long maintained its position as their special textbook. He was the economics teacher, says Roscher, of the well-governed middle states of Germany from 1815 to 1848. The book passed through many editions; in that of 1870 by Adolf Wagner it was transformed into a new book.\n\nIn the earlier part of his scientific life Rau tended strongly towards the relative point of view and a historical method in economics, but he never actually joined the historical school of economics. To the end, he occupied a somewhat indeterminate position with respect to that school; he subordinated historical investigation to immediate practical interests, and politics moved in the direction of limiting rather than extending the sphere of state action. His general merits are thoroughness of treatment, accuracy of statement, and balance of judgment; he shows much industry in the collection and skill in the utilization of statistical facts; and his exposition is orderly and clear.\n\nBesides the publications already mentioned, he was author of the following: \"Ansichten der Volkswirthschaft\", 1821; \"Malthus und Say über die Ursachen der jetzigen Handelsstockung\", 1821; \"Grundriss der Kameralwissenschaft oder Wirthschaftslehre\", 1823; \"Über die Kameralwissenschaft, Entwickelung ihres Wesens und ihrer Theile\", 1825; \"Über die Landwirthschaft der Rheinpfalz\", 1830; and \"Geschichte des Pfluges\", 1845.\n\nRau founded in 1834 the \"Archiv der Politischen Oekonomie und Polizeiwissenschaft\", in which he wrote a number of articles, afterwards issued in separate form: among them may be named those on the debt of Baden, on the accession of Baden to the \"Zollverein\", on the crisis of the Zollverein in the summer of 1852, on the American banks, on the English poor law, on List's national system of political economy and on the minimum size of a peasant property.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258097", "title": "Bette Grayson", "text": "Bette Grayson\n\nBette Grayson (1922 – 22 February 1954) was a Hollywood actress and the second wife of playwright Clifford Odets.\n\nShe died at the age of 32.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258098", "title": "Jaipal Reddy", "text": "Jaipal Reddy\n\nSudini Jaipal Reddy (16 January 1942 – 28 July 2019) was an Indian politician who was the Member of Parliament in the Lok Sabha of India for five terms. He represented the Chevella constituency of Telangana and was a member of the Indian National Congress. He served as a Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting in the I. K. Gujral cabinet in 1998. In 1999 he returned to Indian National Congress after 21 years. In 2004 he was re-elected to 14th Lok Sabha from Miryalaguda Lok Sabha Constituency and then he served as a Union Minister for Information and Broadcasting and Union Minister for Urban Development in the United Progressive Alliance-1. In 2009 he was re-elected to the 15th Lok Sabha from the Chevella constituency and served as a Union Minister for Urban Development and Union Minister for Petroleum and Natural Gas. He was the Union Minister for the Ministry of Earth Sciences and the Ministry of Science and Technology from 29 October 2012 to 18 May 2014.\n\nReddy was born in Nermatta, a village in Chandur Mandal in Nalgonda District in Telangana State but is actually from Maadgula, Mahbubnagar district in Telangana. He had been polio-stricken since he was 18-months old, and uses crutches to walk.\n\nHe had an M.A. from the Osmania University, Hyderabad. He had been an agriculturist. He married Lakshmi on 7 May 1960. The couple have two sons and one daughter.\n\nReddy was a student leader during his college life and in 1970s he joined the Indian National Congress. He became an MLA of Kalwakurthy in Andhra Pradesh.\n\nReddy was an MLA of Kalwakurthy between 1969 and 1984, a constituency in Andhra Pradesh for four terms. He quit his membership of the Congress Party to protest against the emergency and joined the Janata Party in 1977 and later on its splinter Janata Dal.\nHe was the general secretary of the Janata Party from 1985 to 1988. He was elected to the 8th Lok Sabha in 1984 from Mahbubnagar lok sabha. He joined back the Congress Party in 1999 and was elected to the 14th in 2004 from Miryalaguda constituency and the 15th in 2009 from Chavella. He was also a member of the Rajya Sabha on two occasions, 1990–1996 and 1997–1998.\n\nHe also held the position of leader of opposition in the Rajya Sabha for a year from June 1991 to June 1992.He served as the minister for Information and Broadcasting in the government on two occasions: in 1997–1998 under I. K. Gujral and from 2004 under Manmohan Singh with additional responsibility for Culture. He also served as the minister for Urban Development and Petroleum and Natural Gas.\n\nHe acted as the spokesman for several parties of which he has been a member and was awarded the Outstanding Parliamentarian Award in 1998. He was the first from South India and the youngest parliamentarian to achieve this award.\n\nThe last cabinet reshuffle of the UPA-II government took place on 28 October 2012. Reddy was shifted from his current ministry to the Science and Technology ministry after he differed on the gas allocation to Reliance and his refusal to accept demands of Reliance. The oil ministry had imposed a fine of 7000 Rs. crores on Mukesh Ambani's company for the sharp drop in production of gas and violations mentioned in CAG's 2011 report. Further, the oil ministry did not approve company's US$7.2 billion stake in deal with BP. Opposition parties including the BJP, SP, and AAP said that he was removed owing to alleged pressure from the corporate houses, particularly from the Reliance group of Industries. However he refuted the claims and said that he needed to understand the new portfolio.\n\nReddy died on 28 July 2019 at AIG Hospital,Gachibowli in Hyderabad from pneumonia.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258101", "title": "Gina Barreca", "text": "Gina Barreca\n\nRegina Barreca (born 1957) is an American academic and humorist. She is a Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor of English literature and feminist theory at the University of Connecticut and winner of UConn's highest award for excellence in teaching. She is the author of ten books and editor of 11 others. Her weekly articles from \"The Hartford Courant\" are syndicated internationally by the Tribune Co. and her work has appeared in \"The New York Times\", \"The Independent of London\", \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", \"Cosmopolitan,\" and \"The Harvard Business Review\". She is a member of the New York Friar's Club and an honoree of the Connecticut Women's Hall of Fame. Her latest book, \"\"If You Lean In, Will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse?\" Questions and Thoughts for Loud, Smart Women in Turbulent Times\", was published by St. Martin's Press in the spring of 2016 and was an ELLE Reader's Prize selection that June. Currently, she is working on a book about loneliness.\n\nBarreca grew up in Brooklyn and Long Island, New York, and is of Italian descent. She was the first woman to be named Alumni Scholar at Dartmouth College, where she earned her 1979 bachelor's degree. Her stories from this time can be found in her memoir, \"Babes in Boyland: A Personal History of Co-education in the Ivy League.\"\n\nShe was a Reynolds Fellow and earned her 1981 M.A. at New Hall, Cambridge University, and earned her 1987 Ph.D. (English Literature) from the Graduate School, City University of New York, dissertation: “Hate and Humor in Women’s Literature: Twentieth-Century British Writers.”.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1987, Barreca was a Graduate Assistant/Adjunct Lecturer at Queens College. In 1987 she became an Assistant Professor of English at the University of Connecticut, where she became an Associate Professor of English in 1991. From 1997 on she has been Professor of English. She has also been a Reed Fellow for English Language and Literature at UConn since 2017. As of 2018, she has received the American Association of University Professors Excellence in Research and Creativity: Career Award, and was named the Board of Trustees Distinguished Professor of English Literature.\n\nShe is currently a columnist for the \"Hartford Courant\", as well as a blogger for \"Psychology Today,\" where she has over 6 million views.\n\nBarreca has also published articles in \"The New York Times\", \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\", \"The Atlanta Journal-Constitution\", the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"Harvard Business Review\", \"The Dartmouth Alumni Magazine\", \"The Orlando Sentinel\", \"Ms.\" magazine, \"The Common Review\", \"The Chronicle of Higher Education\", and \"Cosmopolitan\" and elsewhere. Barreca's books have been translated into Chinese, German, Spanish, and Japanese.\n\nBarreca cowrote a series of humor columns in \"The Washington Post\" with Gene Weingarten about the differences between men and women. These became the basis of the book she wrote with Weingarten, \"I'm with Stupid: One Man. One Woman. 10,000 Years of Misunderstanding Between the Sexes Cleared Right Up.\" They worked for two years via email and on the phone without having met first.\n\nBarreca appeared in Milton Friedman's documentary \"Free to Choose\" - Episode 6, as a student for Dartmouth College.\n\nIn 2011, Barreca published a memoir called \"Babes in Boyland: A Personal History of Co-education in the Ivy League.\"\n\nHer most recent book, \"\"If You Lean In, Will Men Just Look Down Your Blouse?\" Questions and Thoughts for Loud, Smart Women in Turbulent Times\", was published by St. Martin's Press in the spring of 2016.\n\nCurrently she is working on a book about loneliness that will be released in 2020.\n\nA noted public speaker, Barreca lectures nationally and internationally about a variety of topics including humor, women's comedy, women's lives, everybody's stress, and gender issues in the workplace. She has served as an advisor to the Library of Congress for work on humor and the American character, and was deemed a \"feminist humor maven\" by \"Ms.\" magazine.\n\nShe has appeared on dozens of radio and television programs including \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", \"20/20\", \"48 Hours\", \"The Joy Behar Show\", \"Dr. Phil\", and \"The Today Show\".\n\nRecently, Barreca joined the Mark Twain House and Museum Board of Trustees.\n\nBarreca married her husband, Michael Meyer, in 1991. They live in Storrs, Connecticut.\n\n\n\n\nShe has received a number of honorary degrees. In 2000, she received an honorary degree from Shepard's College in West Virginia. She received an honorary degree from Manchester Community College in 2014, and honorary Doctorate of Human Letters, Charter Oak State College, Connecticut in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258103", "title": "Francis Polkinghorne Pascoe", "text": "Francis Polkinghorne Pascoe\n\nFrancis Polkinghorne Pascoe (1 September 1813 – 20 June 1893) was an English entomologist mainly interested in Coleoptera, commonly known as beetles.\n\nHe was born in Penzance, Cornwall and trained at St. Bartholomew's Hospital, London. Appointed surgeon in the Navy he served on Australian, West Indian and Mediterranean stations. He married a Miss Mary Glasson of Cornwall and settled at Trewhiddle near St Austell where his wife's property produced china clay. Widowed in 1851 he settled in London devoting himself to natural history and entomology in particular. The results of collecting trips to Europe, North Africa and the Lower Amazons were poor and Pascoe worked mainly on insects collected by others. His entomological papers listed and described species collected by Alfred Russel Wallace (in \"Longicornia Malayana\"), Robert Templeton and other assiduous collectors but not prolific writers on systematic entomology. He became a Fellow of the Entomological Society in 1854, was president from 1864–1865, a Member of the Société Entomologique de France and belonged to the Belgian and Stettin Societies. He was also a Fellow of the Linnean Society (elected 1852) and was on the Council of the Ray Society. His 2,500 types are in the Natural History Museum, London.\n\nPascoe accepted the fact of evolution but was an opponent to natural selection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258107", "title": "Ko Hung", "text": "Ko Hung\n\nKo Hung may represent the romanization of:\n"}
{"id": "2258114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258114", "title": "Archdiocese of Tomis", "text": "Archdiocese of Tomis\n\nThe Archdiocese of Tomis () is a diocese of the Romanian Orthodox Church within Constanța County. It is part of the Metropolis of Muntenia and Dobrudja. The seat is in Constanța. It is headed by Archbishop Teodosie Petrescu.\n\nAccording to historical tradition, the apostles Andrew and Philip installed bishops here in the cities of the Roman province of Scythia Minor. Church historian Sozomen noted that in the IV century, these territories were part of a single diocese, which was governed by the Bishop of Tomis. First he mentioned the Bishop of Dobrudja was Evangelicus (approx. 303). Sozomen also wrote of a meeting in 369 between the Bishop of Tomis, Brittany, and the Eastern rimmian Emperor Valens. Bishop Gerontius of Tomis participated in the sessions of the Second Ecumenical Council in 381. It is believed that at this time the metropolis of Scythia was formed with a chair in Tomis. For this purpose, the Roman Emperor Theodosius I the Great (379–395) placed three dioceses on the Black Sea coast between the Crimea and modern-day Varna (Bulgaria) under the jurisdiction of the Tomis see. In 536, the diocese of Tomis was reorganized into a Metropolitan area and 14 subordinate Episcopal sees were established within the borders of Scythia Minor.\n\nAfter the Slavic-Avar invasion, the see of Tomis became an autocephalous archdiocese. For a short time, the metropolis was restored in the X century, when Tomis was first mentioned in sources under the name of Constantia. The invasions of the XI—XII centuries, especially the Pechenegs, finally upset the Church organization in Dobrudja. Its restoration took place in the second half of the 13th century, along with the resumption of Byzantine control over the area. Since Constantia (Tomis) had suffered greatly from previous invasions, the see of the metropolis was transferred to Vicina in 1261. After the transfer of the last Metropolitan of Vicina, Hyacinth, to Wallachia (1359) and the formation of The Ungro-Vlachian metropolis, the jurisdiction of the Metropolitan of Silistra extended to the territory of Dobrudja. In 1388, Dobrudja became part of Wallachia. In 1417, Dobrudja was conquered by the Turks and came under the jurisdiction of the Silistrian metropolis.\n\nIn 1878, Dobrudja became part of Romania. In this situation, the entry of Dobrudja under the canonical jurisdiction of the Lower Danube Diocese (with a seat in Galaţi) on March 16, 1879, fulfilled the religious aspirations of the Romanians Dobrogea.\n\nIn 1923 the Diocese of Constantia (Tomis) was created, which included the counties of the southern part of Dobruja: Constanţa, Ialomița, Durostor and Caliacra. In 1949 Tulcea County was also assigned the Diocese of Constantia, but in 1950, the Diocese of Constantia was abolished, and its territory returned to the Lower Danube diocese, which became known as the Tomis and Lower Danube Archdiocese in 1975.\n\nOn February 12, 1990, the Archdiocese of Tomis and Lower Danube Archdiocese was split into Archdiocese of Tomis and Archdiocese of Lower Danube; the Archdiocese covered all of Dobrudja. On April 15, 2004, the diocese of Tulcea was established in the territory of Northern Dobrudja.\n\nThe following is a list of bishops of Dobrudja:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258117", "title": "Global symmetry", "text": "Global symmetry\n\nIn physics, a global symmetry is a symmetry that holds at all points in the spacetime under consideration, as opposed to a local symmetry which varies from point to point.\n\nGlobal symmetries require conservation laws, but not forces, in physics.\n\nAn example of a global symmetry is the action of the formula_1 (for formula_2 a constant - making it a global transformation) group on the Dirac Lagrangian:\n\nUnder this transformation the fermionic field changes as formula_4 and formula_5 and so:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258123", "title": "Rhine knee", "text": "Rhine knee\n\nThe Rhine knee or Rhine's knee () is the name of several distinctive bends in the course of the river Rhine.\n\nIn Basel, the Rhine changes its westerly direction of flow in an angle of 90 degrees to a northerly direction, along the borders of France and Germany, to flow to the North Sea. From a political viewpoint, the Rhine knee is near the tripoint of France, Germany and Switzerland. Therefore, this region is called \"Regio TriRhena\". The Basel knee separates the High Rhine from the Upper Rhine section.\n\nThe whole Rhine knee lies within Swiss territory and is settled by the city of Basel and its adjacent municipalities Riehen and Bettingen. Farther north are the German cities of Lörrach and Weil am Rhein as well as the French towns Huningue and Saint Louis.\n\nThe Basel knee arose in the last glacial period (Würm glaciation), when the river flowed directly from today's Grenzach-Wyhlen west of the city to the area of Weil am Rhein in the north. The northern Wiese tributary transported large rubble and gravel sediments from the Feldberg glacier into the Rhine Valley, enforcing the river's characteristic bend to the south.\n\nThe Upper Rhine again changes its flow direction from west to north at another bend near the German town of Bingen and the mouth of the Nahe tributary. Coming here from the city of Mainz, parallel to the crest of the Rhenish Massif, the turn to the north at Bingen marks the opening of a water gap between the Hunsrück mountain range in the west and the Taunus in the east, stretching up to Koblenz in the north and separating the Upper from the Middle Rhine. \n\nThe Rhine narrows at the site are called Bingen Hole (\"Binger Loch\"), marked by the Mouse Tower on an island in the river and uphill Ehrenfels Castle. Until several blasting operations in the 19th century, an underwater reef of quartzite was a great threat to ship transport.\n\nThere is also a bridge in Düsseldorf called \"Rhine knee bridge\".\n"}
{"id": "2258135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258135", "title": "History of Australia (1788–1850)", "text": "History of Australia (1788–1850)\n\nThe history of Australia from 1788–1850 covers the early colonial period of Australia's history, from the arrival in 1788 of the First Fleet of British ships at Sydney, New South Wales, who established the penal colony, the scientific exploration of the continent and later, establishment of other Australian colonies. European colonisation created a new dominant society in Australia in place of the pre-existing population of Aboriginal Australians.\n\nIt is commonly reported that the colonisation of Australia was driven by the need to address overcrowding in the British prison system, and the fact of the British losing the Thirteen Colonies of America in the American Revolution; however, it was simply not economically viable to transport convicts halfway around the world for this reason alone. Many convicts were either skilled tradesmen or farmers who had been convicted for trivial crimes and were sentenced to seven years' transportation, the time required to set up the infrastructure for the new colony. Convicts were often given pardons prior to or on completion of their sentences and were allocated parcels of land to farm.\n\nSir Joseph Banks, the eminent scientist who had accompanied Lieutenant James Cook on his 1770 voyage, recommended Botany Bay as a suitable site. Banks accepted an offer of assistance from the American Loyalist James Matra in July 1783. Matra had visited Botany Bay with Banks in 1770 as a junior officer on the \"Endeavour\" commanded by James Cook. Under Banks's guidance, he rapidly produced \"A Proposal for Establishing a Settlement in New South Wales\" (24 August 1783), with a fully developed set of reasons for a colony composed of American Loyalists, Chinese and South Sea Islanders (but not convicts).\nFollowing an interview with Secretary of State Lord Sydney in March 1784, Matra amended his proposal to include convicts as settlers. Matra's plan can be seen to have “provided the original blueprint for settlement in New South Wales”. A cabinet memorandum December 1784 shows the Government had Matra's plan in mind when considering the creation of a settlement in New South Wales. \"The London Chronicle\" of 12 October 1786 said: “Mr. Matra, an Officer of the Treasury, who, sailing with Capt. Cook, had an opportunity of visiting Botany Bay, is the Gentleman who suggested the plan to Government of transporting convicts to that island”. The Government also incorporated into the colonisation plan the project for settling Norfolk Island, with its attractions of timber and flax, proposed by Banks's Royal Society colleagues, Sir John Call and Sir George Young.\n\nOn 13 May 1787, the First Fleet of 11 ships and about 1,530 people (736 convicts, 17 convicts' children, 211 marines, 27 marines' wives, 14 marines' children and about 300 officers and others) under the command of Captain Arthur Phillip set sail for Botany Bay. A few days after arrival at Botany Bay the fleet moved to the more suitable Port Jackson where a settlement was established at Sydney Cove on 26 January 1788. This date later became Australia's national day, Australia Day. The colony was formally proclaimed by Governor Phillip on 7 February 1788 at Sydney. Sydney Cove offered a fresh water supply and a safe harbour, which Philip famously described as:\n\nPhillip named the settlement after the Home Secretary, Thomas Townshend, 1st Baron Sydney (Viscount Sydney from 1789). The only people at the flag raising ceremony and the formal taking of possession of the land in the name of King George III were Phillip and a few dozen marines and officers from the \"Supply\", the rest of the ship's company and the convicts witnessing it from on board ship. The remaining ships of the Fleet were unable to leave Botany Bay until later on 26 January because of a tremendous gale. The new colony was formally proclaimed as the Colony of New South Wales on 7 February.\n\nOn 24 January 1788 a French expedition of two ships led by Admiral Jean-François de La Pérouse had arrived off Botany Bay, on the latest leg of a three-year voyage that had taken them from Brest, around Cape Horn, up the coast from Chile to California, north-west to Kamchatka, south-east to Easter Island, north-west to Macao, and on to the Philippines, the Friendly Isles, Hawaii and Norfolk Island. Though amicably received, the French expedition was a troublesome matter for the British, as it showed the interest of France in the new land.\n\nNevertheless, on 2 February Lieutenant King, at Phillip's request, paid a courtesy call on the French and offered them any assistance they may need. The French made the same offer to the British, as they were much better provisioned than the British and had enough supplies to last three years. Neither of these offers was accepted. On 10 March the French expedition, having taken on water and wood, left Botany Bay, never to be seen again. Phillip and La Pérouse never met. La Pérouse is remembered in a Sydney suburb of that name. Various other French geographical names along the Australian coast also date from this voyage.\n\nGovernor Phillip was vested with complete authority over the inhabitants of the colony. Phillip's personal intent was to establish harmonious relations with local Aboriginal people and try to reform as well as discipline the convicts of the colony. Phillip and several of his officers—most notably Watkin Tench—left behind journals and accounts of which tell of immense hardships during the first years of settlement. Often Phillip's officers despaired for the future of New South Wales. Early efforts at agriculture were fraught and supplies from overseas were few and far between. Between 1788 and 1792 about 3546 male and 766 female convicts were landed at Sydney—many \"professional criminals\" with few of the skills required for the establishment of a colony. Many new arrivals were also sick or unfit for work and the conditions of healthy convicts only deteriorated with hard labour and poor sustenance in the settlement. The food situation reached crisis point in 1790 and the Second Fleet which finally arrived in June 1790 had lost a quarter of its \"passengers\" through sickness, while the condition of the convicts of the Third Fleet appalled Phillip. From 1791 however, the more regular arrival of ships and the beginnings of trade lessened the feeling of isolation and improved supplies.\n\nIn 1792, two French ships, \"La Recherche\" and \"L'Espérance\" anchored in a harbour near Tasmania's southernmost point they called Recherche Bay. This was at a time when Britain and France were trying to be the first to discover and colonise Australia. The expedition led by Antoine Bruni d'Entrecasteaux carried scientists and cartographers, gardeners, artists and hydrographers who, variously, planted, identified, mapped, marked, recorded and documented the environment and the people of the new lands that they encountered at the behest of the fledgling Société D'Histoire Naturelle.\n\nWhite settlement began with a consignment of English convicts, guarded by a detachment of the Royal Marines, a number of whom subsequently stayed in the colony as settlers. Their view of the colony and their place in it was eloquently stated by Captain David Collins: \"From the disposition to crimes and the incorrigible character of the major part of the colonists, an odium was, from the first, illiberally thrown upon the settlement; and the word \"Botany Bay\" became a term of reproach that was indiscriminately cast upon every one who resided in New South Wales. But let the reproach light upon those who have used it as such... if the honour of having deserved well of one's country be attainable by sacrificing good name, domestic comforts, and dearest connections in her service, the officers of this settlement have justly merited that distinction\".\n\nWhen the \"Bellona\" transport came to anchor in Sydney Cove on 16 January 1793, she brought with her the first immigrant free settlers. They were: Thomas Rose, a farmer from Dorset, his wife and four children; he was allowed a grant of 120 acres; Frederic Meredith, who had formerly been at Sydney with HMS \"Sirius\"; Thomas Webb (who had also been formerly at Sydney with the \"Sirius\"), his wife, and his nephew, Joseph Webb; Edward Powell, who had formerly been at Sydney with the \"Juliana\" transport, and who married a free woman after his arrival. Thomas Webb and Edward Powell each received a grant of 80 acres; and Joseph Webb and Frederic Meredith received 60 acres each.\n\nThe conditions they had come out under were that they should be provided with a free passage, be furnished with agricultural tools and implements by the Government, have two years' provisions, and have grants of land free of expense. They were likewise to have the labour of a certain number of convicts, who were also to be provided with two years' rations and one year's clothing from the public stores. The land assigned to them was some miles to the westward of Sydney, at a place named by the settlers, \"Liberty Plains\". It is now the area covered mainly by the suburbs of Strathfield and Homebush.\n\nOne in three convicts transported after 1798 was Irish, about a fifth of whom were transported in connection with the political and agrarian disturbances common in Ireland at the time. While the settlers were reasonably well-equipped, little consideration had been given to the skills required to make the colony self-supporting—few of the first-wave convicts had farming or trade experience (nor the soldiers), and the lack of understanding of Australia's seasonal patterns saw initial attempts at farming fail, leaving only what animals and birds the soldiers were able to shoot. The colony nearly starved, and Phillip was forced to send a ship to Batavia (Jakarta) for supplies. Some relief arrived with the Second Fleet in 1790, but life was extremely hard for the first few years of the colony.\nConvicts were usually sentenced to seven or fourteen years' penal servitude, or \"for the term of their natural lives\". Often these sentences had been commuted from the death sentence, which was technically the punishment for a wide variety of crimes. Upon arrival in a penal colony, convicts would be assigned to various kinds of work. Those with trades were given tasks to fit their skills (stonemasons, for example, were in very high demand) while the unskilled were assigned to work gangs to build roads and do other such tasks. Female convicts were usually assigned as domestic servants to the free settlers, many being forced into prostitution.\n\nWhere possible, convicts were assigned to free settlers who would be responsible for feeding and disciplining them; in return for this, the settlers were granted land. This system reduced the workload on the central administration. Those convicts who weren't assigned to settlers were housed at barracks such as the Hyde Park Barracks or the Parramatta Female Factory.\n\nConvict discipline was harsh; convicts who would not work or who disobeyed orders were punished by flogging, being put in stricter confinement (e.g. leg-irons), or being transported to a stricter penal colony. The penal colonies at Port Arthur and Moreton Bay, for instance, were stricter than the one at Sydney, and the one at Norfolk Island was strictest of all. Convicts were assigned to work gangs to build roads, buildings, and the like. Female convicts, who made up 20% of the convict population, were usually assigned as domestic help to soldiers. Those convicts who behaved were eventually issued with ticket of leave, which allowed them a certain degree of freedom. Those who saw out their full sentences or were granted a pardon usually remained in Australia as free settlers, and were able to take on convict servants themselves.\n\nIn 1789 former convict James Ruse produced the first successful wheat harvest in NSW. He repeated this success in 1790 and, because of the pressing need for food production in the colony, was rewarded by Governor Phillip with the first land grant made in New South Wales. Ruse's 30-acre grant at Rose Hill, near Parramatta, was aptly named 'Experiment Farm'. This was the colony's first successful farming enterprise, and Ruse was soon joined by others. The colony began to grow enough food to support itself, and the standard of living for the residents gradually improved.\nIn 1804 the Castle Hill convict rebellion was led by around 200 escaped, mostly Irish convicts, although it was broken up quickly by the New South Wales Corps. On 26 January 1808, there was a military rebellion against Governor Bligh led by John Macarthur. Following this, Governor Lachlan Macquarie was given a mandate to restore government and discipline in the colony. When he arrived in 1810, he forcibly deported the NSW Corps and brought the 73rd regiment to replace them.\n\n\nWhile the actual date of original exploration in Australia is unknown, there is evidence of exploration by William Dampier in 1699, and the First Fleet arrived in 1788, eighteen years after Lt. James Cook surveyed and mapped the entire east coast aboard HM Bark \"Endeavour\" in 1770. In October 1795 George Bass and Matthew Flinders, accompanied by William Martin, sailed the boat \"Tom Thumb\" out of Port Jackson to Botany Bay and explored the Georges River further upstream than had been done previously by the colonists. Their reports on their return led to the settlement of Banks' Town. In March 1796 the same party embarked on a second voyage in a similar small boat, which they also called the \"Tom Thumb\". During this trip they travelled as far down the coast as Lake Illawarra, which they called Tom Thumb Lagoon. They discovered and explored Port Hacking. In 1798–99, Bass and Flinders set out in a sloop and circumnavigated Van Diemen's Land, thus proving it to be an island.\n\nAboriginal guides and assistance in the European exploration of the colony were common and often vital to the success of missions. In 1801–02 Matthew Flinders in \"The Investigator\" led the first circumnavigation of Australia. Aboard ship was the Aboriginal explorer Bungaree, of the Sydney district, who became the first person born on the Australian continent to circumnavigate the Australian continent. Previously, the famous Bennelong and a companion had become the first people born in the area of New South Wales to sail for Europe, when, in 1792 they accompanied Governor Phillip to England and were presented to King George III.\n\nIn 1813, Gregory Blaxland, William Lawson and William Wentworth succeeded in crossing the formidable barrier of forested gulleys and sheer cliffs presented by the Blue Mountains, west of Sydney, by following the ridges instead of looking for a route through the valleys. At Mount Blaxland they looked out over \"enough grass to support the stock of the colony for thirty years\", and expansion of the British settlement into the interior could begin.\n\nIn 1824 the Governor Sir Thomas Brisbane, commissioned Hamilton Hume and former Royal Navy Captain William Hovell to lead an expedition to find new grazing land in the south of the colony, and also to find an answer to the mystery of where New South Wales's western rivers flowed. Over 16 weeks in 1824–25, Hume and Hovell journeyed to Port Phillip and back. They made many important discoveries including the Murray River (which they named the Hume), many of its tributaries, and good agricultural and grazing lands between Gunning, New South Wales and Corio Bay, Victoria.\n\nCharles Sturt led an expedition along the Macquarie River in 1828 and discovered the Darling River. A theory had developed that the inland rivers of New South Wales were draining into an inland sea. Leading a second expedition in 1829, Sturt followed the Murrumbidgee River into a 'broad and noble river', the Murray River, which he named after Sir George Murray, secretary of state for the colonies. His party then followed this river to its junction with the Darling River, facing two threatening encounters with local Aboriginal people along the way. Sturt continued downriver on to Lake Alexandrina, where the Murray meets the sea in South Australia. Suffering greatly, the party had to then row back upstream hundreds of kilometres for the return journey.\n\nSurveyor General Sir Thomas Mitchell conducted a series of expeditions from the 1830s to 'fill in the gaps' left by these previous expeditions. He was meticulous in seeking to record the original Aboriginal place names around the colony, for which reason the majority of place names to this day retain their Aboriginal titles.\n\nThe Polish scientist/explorer Count Paul Edmund Strzelecki conducted surveying work in the Australian Alps in 1839 and became the first European to ascend Australia's highest peak, which he named Mount Kosciuszko in honour of the Polish patriot Tadeusz Kosciuszko.\n\nTraditional Aboriginal society had been governed by councils of elders and a corporate decision-making process, but the first European-style governments established after 1788 were autocratic and run by appointed governors—although English law was transplanted into the Australian colonies by virtue of the doctrine of reception, thus notions of the rights and processes established by the \"Magna Carta\" and the Bill of Rights 1689 were brought from Britain by the colonists. Agitation for representative government began soon after the settlement of the colonies.\n\nThe Second Fleet in 1790 brought to Sydney two men who were to play important roles in the colony's future. One was D'Arcy Wentworth, whose son, William Charles, went on to be an explorer, to found Australia's first newspaper and to become a leader of the movement to abolish convict transportation and establish representative government. The other was John Macarthur, a Scottish army officer and founder of the Australian wool industry, which laid the foundations of Australia's future prosperity. Macarthur was a turbulent element: in 1808 he was one of the leaders of the Rum Rebellion against the governor, William Bligh.\n\nFrom about 1815 the colony, under the governorship of Lachlan Macquarie, began to grow rapidly as free settlers arrived and new lands were opened up for farming. Despite the long and arduous sea voyage, settlers were attracted by the prospect of making a new life on virtually free Crown land. From the late 1820s settlement was only authorised in the limits of location, known as the Nineteen Counties.\n\nMany settlers occupied land without authority and beyond these authorised settlement limits: they were known as squatters and became the basis of a powerful landowning class, the Squattocracy. As a result of opposition from the labouring and artisan classes, transportation of convicts to Sydney ended in 1840, although it continued in the smaller colonies of Van Diemen's Land (first settled in 1803, later renamed Tasmania) and Moreton Bay (founded 1824, and later renamed Queensland) for a few years more.\n\nThe Swan River Settlement (as Western Australia was originally known), centred on Perth, was founded in 1829. The colony suffered from a long-term shortage of labour, and by 1850 local capitalists had succeeded in persuading London to send convicts. (Transportation did not end until 1868.) New Zealand was part of New South Wales until 1840 when it became a separate colony.\n\nThe first governments established after 1788 were autocratic and each colony was governed by a British Governor, appointed by the British monarch. There was considerable unhappiness with the way some of the colonies were run. In most cases the administration of the early colonies was carried out by the British military. The New South Wales Corps, which was in charge of New South Wales, became known as the \"Rum Corps\", due to its stranglehold on the distribution of rum, which was used as a makeshift currency at the time. In New South Wales this led to the \"Rum Rebellion\". Although English law was transplanted into the Australian colonies by virtue of the doctrine of reception, thus notions of the rights and processes established by the \"Magna Carta\" and the Bill of Rights 1689 were brought from Britain by the colonists. Agitation for representative government began soon after the settlement of the colonies.\n\nThe oldest legislative body in Australia, the New South Wales Legislative Council, was created in 1825 as an appointed body to advise the Governor of New South Wales. William Wentworth established the Australian Patriotic Association (Australia's first political party) in 1835 to demand democratic government for New South Wales. The reformist attorney general, John Plunkett, sought to apply Enlightenment principles to governance in the colony, pursuing the establishment of equality before the law, first by extending jury rights to emancipists, then by extending legal protections to convicts, assigned servants and Aboriginal peoples. Plunkett twice charged the colonist perpetrators of the Myall Creek massacre of Aboriginal people with murder, resulting in a conviction and his landmark \"Church Act\" of 1836 disestablished the Church of England and established legal equality between Anglicans, Catholics, Presbyterians and later Methodists.\n\nIn 1840, the Adelaide City Council and the Sydney City Council were established. Men who possessed 1,000 pounds' worth of property were able to stand for election and wealthy landowners were permitted up to four votes each in elections. Australia's first parliamentary elections were conducted for the New South Wales Legislative Council in 1843, again with voting rights (for males only) tied to property ownership or financial capacity. Voter rights were extended further in New South Wales in 1850 and elections for legislative councils were held in the colonies of Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania.\n\nBy the mid-19th century, there was a strong desire for representative and responsible government in the colonies of Australia, later fed by the democratic spirit of the goldfields and the ideas of the great reform movements sweeping Europe, the United States and the British Empire. The end of convict transportation accelerated reform in the 1840s and 1850s. \"The Australian Colonies Government Act\" [1850] was a landmark development which granted representative constitutions to New South Wales, Victoria, South Australia and Tasmania and the colonies enthusiastically set about writing constitutions which produced democratically progressive parliaments—though the constitutions generally maintained the role of the colonial upper houses as representative of social and economic \"interests\" and all established constitutional monarchies with the British monarch as the symbolic head of state.\n\n\nThe colonies relied heavily on imports from England for survival.\nThe official currency of the colonies was the British pound, but the unofficial currency and most readily accepted trade good was rum. During this period Australian businessmen began to prosper. For example, the partnership of Berry and Wollstonecraft made enormous profits by means of land grants, convict labour, and exporting native cedar back to England.\n\nThe Australian people and the colonists spent a large part of the early nineteenth century building infrastructure such as railways, bridges and schools. This allowed them to get on with economic development and allowed the country to lay the pathway to being a modern-day superpower.\n\nSince time immemorial in Australia, Indigenous people had performed the rites and rituals of the animist religion of the Dreamtime. The permanent presence of Christianity in Australia however, came with the arrival of the First Fleet of British convict ships at Sydney in 1788. As a British colony, the predominant Christian denomination was the Church of England, but one tenth of all the convicts who came to Australia on the First Fleet were Catholic, and at least half of them were born in Ireland.\n\nA small proportion of British marines were also Catholic. Some of the Irish convicts had been Transported to Australia for political crimes or social rebellion in Ireland, so the authorities were suspicious of the minority religion for the first three decades of settlement. It was therefore the crew of the French explorer La Pérouse who conducted the first Catholic ceremony on Australian soil in 1788—the burial of Father Louis Receveur, a Franciscan friar, who died while the ships were at anchor at Botany Bay, while on a mission to explore the Pacific.\n\nIn early colonial times, Church of England clergy worked closely with the governors. Richard Johnson, Anglican chaplain to the First Fleet, was charged by the governor, Arthur Phillip, with improving \"public morality\" in the colony, but he was also heavily involved in health and education. The Reverend Samuel Marsden (1765–1838) had magisterial duties, and so was equated with the authorities by the convicts. He became known as the \"flogging parson\" for the severity of his punishments\n\nCatholic convicts were compelled to attend Church of England services and their children and orphans were raised by the authorities as Protestant. The first Catholic priest colonists arrived in Australia as convicts in 1800—James Harold, James Dixon, and Peter O'Neill, who had been convicted for \"complicity\" in the Irish 1798 Rebellion. Fr. Dixon was conditionally emancipated and permitted to celebrate Mass. On 15 May 1803, in vestments made from curtains and with a chalice made of tin he conducted the first Catholic Mass in New South Wales.\n\nThe Irish led Castle Hill Rebellion of 1804 alarmed the British authorities and Dixon's permission to celebrate Mass was revoked. Fr. Jeremiah Flynn, an Irish Cistercian, was appointed as Prefect Apostolic of New Holland, and set out from Britain for the colony, uninvited. Watched by authorities, Flynn secretly performed priestly duties before being arrested and deported to London. Reaction to the affair in Britain led to two further priests being allowed to travel to the Colony in 1820—John Joseph Therry and Philip Connolly. The foundation stone for the first St Mary's Cathedral, Sydney was laid on 29 October 1821 by Governor Lachlan Macquarie.\n\nThe absence of a Catholic mission in Australia before 1818 reflected the legal disabilities of Catholics in Britain and the difficult position of Ireland within the British Empire. The government therefore endorsed the English Benedictines to lead the early Church in the Colony. The Church of England lost its legal privileges in the Colony of New South Wales by the \"Church Act of 1836\". Drafted by the reformist attorney-general John Plunkett, the Act established legal equality for Anglicans, Catholics and Presbyterians and was later extended to Methodists. Catholic missionary William Ullathorne criticised the convict system, publishing a pamphlet, \"The Horrors of Transportation Briefly Unfolded to the People\", in Britain in 1837. Laywoman Caroline Chisolm did ecumenical work to alleviate the suffering of female migrants.\n\nInitially, education was informal, primarily occurring in the home. At the instigation of the then British Prime Minister, the Duke of Wellington, and with the patronage of King William IV, Australia's oldest surviving independent school, The King's School, Parramatta, was founded in 1831 as part of an effort to establish grammar schools in the colony. By 1833, there were around ten Catholic schools in the Australian colonies. Today one in five Australian students attend Catholic schools.\n\nIn regard to medicine, hundreds of medical men are known to have arrived in Australia between 1788 and 1868 as \"transportees\", this includes the \"Founding Fathers\" of Australian medicine: William Redfern, D'arcy Wentworth and William Bland, these men also founded several institutes which developed as the settlement turned from a goal into a colony. Redfern, who has been called the \"Father of Australian Medicine\" arrived as a convict in 1801.\n\nSydney's first Catholic Bishop, John Bede Polding requested a community of nuns be sent to the colony and five Irish Sisters of Charity arrived in 1838 to set about pastoral care of convict women and work in schools and hospitals before going on to found their own schools and hospitals. At Polding's request, the Christian Brothers arrived in Sydney in 1843 to assist in schools. Establishing themselves first at Sevenhill, in South Australia in 1848, the Jesuits were the first religious order of priests to enter and establish houses in South Australia, Victoria, Queensland and the Northern Territory—where they established schools and missions.\n\nAustralian composers who published musical works in this period include Francis Hartwell Henslowe, Frederick Ellard, Charles Edward Horsley, Isaac Nathan, Stephen Hale Marsh (1805–1888), and Henry Marsh (1824–1885). Some Australian folksongs date to this period.\n\nAmong the first true works of Australian literature produced over this period was the accounts of the settlement of Sydney by Watkin Tench, a captain of the marines on the First Fleet to arrive in 1788. In 1819, poet, explorer, journalist and politician William Wentworth published the first book written by an Australian: \"A Statistical, Historical, and Political Description of the Colony of New South Wales and Its Dependent Settlements in Van Diemen's Land, With a Particular Enumeration of the Advantages Which These Colonies Offer for Emigration and Their Superiority in Many Respects Over Those Possessed by the United States of America\", in which he advocated an elected assembly for New South Wales, trial by jury and settlement of Australia by free emigrants rather than convicts. In 1838 \"The Guardian: a tale\" by Anna Maria Bunn was published in Sydney. It was the first Australian novel printed and published in mainland Australia and the first Australian novel written by a woman. It is a Gothic romance.\n\nEuropean traditions of Australian theatre also came with the First Fleet, with the first production being performed in 1789 by convicts: \"The Recruiting Officer\" by George Farquhar. Two centuries later, the extraordinary circumstances of the foundations of Australian theatre were recounted in \"Our Country's Good\" by Timberlake Wertenbaker: the participants were prisoners watched by sadistic guards and the leading lady was under threat of the death penalty. The play is based on Thomas Keneally's novel \"The Playmaker\". The Theatre Royal, Hobart, opened in 1837 and it remains the oldest theatre in Australia. The Melbourne Athenaeum is one of the oldest public institutions in Australia, founded in 1839 and it served as library, school of arts and dance hall (and later became Australia's first cinema, screening \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\", the world's first feature film in 1906). The Queen's Theatre, Adelaide opened with Shakespeare in 1841 and is today the oldest theatre on the mainland.\n\nAboriginal reactions to the sudden arrival of British settlers were varied, but often hostile when the presence of the colonisers led to competition over resources, and to the occupation by the British of Aboriginal lands. European diseases decimated Aboriginal populations, and the occupation or destruction of lands and food resources led to starvation. By contrast with New Zealand, where the \"Treaty of Waitangi\" was seen to legitimise British settlement, no treaty was signed with the Eora people of Sydney Cove, nor any of the other Aboriginal peoples in Australia.\n\nAccording to the historian Geoffrey Blainey, in Australia during the colonial period:\nIn a thousand isolated places there were occasional shootings and spearings. Even worse, smallpox, measles, influenza and other new diseases swept from one Aboriginal camp to another... The main conqueror of Aborigines was to be disease and its ally, demoralisation.\nSince the 1980s, the use of the word \"invasion\" to describe the British colonisation of Australia has been highly controversial. According to Australian Henry Reynolds however, government officials and ordinary settlers in the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries frequently used words such as \"invasion\" and \"warfare\" to describe their presence and relations with Aboriginal Australians. In his book \"The Other Side of the Frontier\", Reynolds described in detail armed resistance by Aboriginal people to white encroachments by means of guerrilla warfare, beginning in the eighteenth century and continuing into the early twentieth.\n\nIn the early years of colonisation, David Collins, the senior legal officer in the Sydney settlement, wrote of the local Aboriginal people:\n\nWhile they entertain the idea of our having dispossessed them of their residences, they must always consider us as enemies; and upon this principle they [have] made a point of attacking the white people whenever opportunity and safety concurred.\n\nIn 1847, Western Australian barrister E.W. Landor stated: \"We have seized upon the country, and shot down the inhabitants, until the survivors have found it expedient to submit to our rule. We have acted as Julius Caesar did when he took possession of Britain.\" In most cases, Reynolds says, Aboriginal people initially resisted British presence. In a letter to the \"Launceston Advertiser\" in 1831, a settler wrote:\n\nWe are at war with them: they look upon us as enemies—as invaders—as oppressors and persecutors—they resist our invasion. They have never been subdued, therefore they are not rebellious subjects, but an injured nation, defending in their own way, their rightful possessions which have been torn from them by force.\n\nReynolds quotes numerous writings by settlers who, in the first half of the nineteenth century, described themselves as living in fear and even in terror due to attacks by Aboriginal people determined to kill them or drive them off their lands. He argues that Aboriginal resistance was, in some cases at least, temporarily effective; the killings of men, sheep and cattle, and burning of white homes and crops, drove some settlers to ruin. Aboriginal resistance continued well beyond the middle of the nineteenth century, and in 1881 the editor of \"The Queenslander\" wrote:\n\nDuring the last four or five years the human life and property destroyed by the aborigines in the North total up to a serious amount. [...] [S]ettlement on the land, and the development of the mineral and other resources on the country, have been in a great degree prohibited by the hostility of the blacks, which still continues with undiminished spirit.\n\nReynolds argues that continuous Aboriginal resistance for well over a century belies the myth of peaceful settlement in Australia. Settlers in turn often reacted to Aboriginal resistance with great violence, resulting in numerous indiscriminate massacres by whites of Aboriginal men, women and children. Among the most famous massacres of the early nineteenth century were the Pinjarra massacre, the Myall Creek massacre, and the Rufus River massacre.\n\nFamous Aboriginal men who resisted British colonisation in the eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries include Pemulwuy and Yagan, and many others went unrecorded. In Tasmania, the \"Black War\" was fought in the first half of the nineteenth century.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258152", "title": "Pol Swings", "text": "Pol Swings\n\nPol F. Swings (24 September 1906 – 28 October 1983) was a Belgian astrophysicist who was known for his studies of the composition and structure of stars and comets. He used spectroscopy to identify the elements in astronomical bodies, and, in particular, comets. Swings studied at the University of Liège, where he was professor of spectroscopy and astrophysics from 1932 to 1975. He was also a visiting professor at the University of Chicago in the United States (1939–43, 1946–52).\n\nFrom his study of cometary atmospheres, he is credited with the discovery of the Swings bands and the Swings effect. Swings bands are emission lines resulting from the presence of certain atoms of carbon; the Swings effect was discovered with the aid of a slit spectrograph and is attributed to fluorescence resulting partly from solar radiation.\n\nMoreover, Swings studied spectroscopy of interstellar space and investigated the rotation of stars, as well as nebulae, novae, and variable stars. Pol Swings was awarded the Francqui Prize for Exact Sciences in 1948.\n\nIn 1981, Swings became a founding member of the World Cultural Council.\n\n1637 Swings, an asteroid of the Main belt is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "2258162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258162", "title": "Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat", "text": "Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat\n\nSaint-Léonard-de-Noblat () is a commune in the Haute-Vienne department in the Nouvelle-Aquitaine region in west-central France, on a hill above the river Vienne. It is named after Saint Leonard of Noblac.\n\nInhabitants are known as \"Miaulétous\".\n\nSaint-Léonard church is a UNESCO World Heritage Site part of the World Heritage Sites of the Routes of Santiago de Compostela in France. Lajoumard, administratively part of Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat, is one of the oldest villages in Nouvelle-Aquitaine.\n\nSaint-Léonard-de-Noblat is the hometown of the chemist and physicist, Joseph Louis Gay-Lussac.\n\nAdrien Pressemane, a porcelain painter, lived in the town and represented the district in parliament.\n\nRaymond Poulidor, considered by some as the most popular racing cyclist in France, lived in the town. He was known as \"the eternal second\" of the Tour de France after repeatedly losing, often against Jacques Anquetil, who won five times. Poulidor later competed against Eddy Merckx, who also won five times. Poulidor's best victory was in Milan-Sanremo.\n\nSerge Gainsbourg, (Lucien Ginzburg) (1928-1991), took refuge a few months during the year 1944 to the local high school, thereby escaping the persecution of Jews (his parents had immigrated from Crimea) . A comprehensive article on this stay appears in the journal \"Memory of Here\" (No. 3). His presence in Saint Léonard - it lasted about 6 months - has long been ignored, to the point of creating a controversy about a street name (2001). Only the Press House now called the singer. The debate is closed, since the arrival of Serge in Saint-Léonard has been proven by several witnesses.\n\nGilles Deleuze, French philosopher, lived and is buried there.\n\nMario David, of his real name Jacques Paul Jules Marie David, French actor, (1927-1996) was at school here.\n\nGeorges-Emmanuel Clancier, (1914-2018), French writer and poet. In Saint-Léonard-de-Noblat, he met Raymond Queneau and Michel Leiris.\n\nDaniel-Henri Kahnweiler (1884-1979), German writer and collector, who promoted the Cubist movement and discovered, among others, Picasso and Braque, took refuge in Saint-Léonard during the war.\n\nPhilippe de Vomécourt (1902-1964), French Resistance and Special Operations Executive (SOE) agent in World War II. His home was near Noblat.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258167", "title": "Georg Wilhelm von Siemens", "text": "Georg Wilhelm von Siemens\n\nGeorg Wilhelm von Siemens (30 July 1855, Berlin – 14 October 1919, Arosa, Switzerland) was a German telecommunications industrialist of the Siemens family.\n\nKnown as Wilhelm von Siemens, he was the second son of Werner von Siemens by first wife Mathilde Drumann, and was a general partner of the family company Siemens. Then under the name \"Siemens & Halske\" (S & H), the company was incorporated in 1897, with Wilhelm's uncle Carl Heinrich von Siemens as its first chairman of the Supervisory Board. Wilhelm's elder brother Arnold von Siemens succeeded his uncle as Chairman of the Board from 1904 until his death in 1918, while Wilhelm served as chairman of the board of the sister company, Siemens-Schuckertwerke AG, from 1903 until 1918. After his brother Arnold's death in 1918, he succeeded him as chairman of Siemens & Halske AG until his own death the following year. His successor in both chairmanships became his younger (half-)brother, Carl Friedrich von Siemens.\n\nMarried in 1882 to Eleonore Siemens (2 March 1860 – 26 July 1919), a first cousin, they were parents of:\n\nHe is credited with championing the Berlin to Iraq railway system that was to be completed about 1915. The direct competition such a railway system posed to British imperial domination could have been one of the causes of WW I. Beginning in 1899, he founded Siemensstadt, a locality of Berlin, in order to expand production by building new factories and worker's accommodation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258170", "title": "Friends World Committee for Consultation", "text": "Friends World Committee for Consultation\n\nThe Friends World Committee for Consultation (FWCC) is a Quaker organisation that works to communicate between all parts of Quakerism. FWCC's world headquarters is in London. It has General Consultative NGO status with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations since 2002. FWCC shares responsibility for the Quaker UN Office in Geneva and New York City with the American Friends Service Committee and Britain Yearly Meeting.\n\nFWCC was set up at the 1937 Second World Conference of Friends in Swarthmore, Pennsylvania, US, \"to act in a consultative capacity to promote better understanding among Friends the world over, particularly by the encouragement of joint conferences and intervisitation, the collection and circulation of information about Quaker literature and other activities directed towards that end.\"\n\nBetween representative meetings, governance is carried out by a Central Executive Committee of 17 members from around the world, which meets annually in a different part of the world. The current General Secretary is Gretchen Castle, who is also Chairperson for the Conference of Secretaries of World Christian Communions, the first woman to hold this office.\n\nFWCC has four sections in addition to the world office in London:\n\nAfrica Section represents Friends throughout the continent of Africa. Most African Friends are from the evangelical and programmed traditions. However, a significant minority are from the unprogrammed tradition. South Africa Yearly Meeting is principally an unprogrammed Yearly Meeting and there are unprogrammed Meetings elsewhere in Africa, notably in Kenya. Africa Section is numerically the most numerous of the Sections and the administrative headquarters are in Nairobi, Kenya. The 2012 Friends World Conference was held in Kenya.\n\nAsia West Pacific Section (AWPS) is geographically the largest FWCC Section stretching from Japan in the north to New Zealand and Australia in the south and from the Philippines in the east to India in the west. Asia West Pacific Section is growing significantly and recently welcomed into Membership the Philippine Evangelical Friends Church, a Filipino programmed and evangelical Friends Meeting; Marble Rock Friends and Mahoba Yearly Meeting in India. Some AWPS Friends Meetings are numerically small, e.g. those in Korea and Hong Kong but nonetheless give generously to Friends work internationally and contribute a lot to the life of Friends. Other Friends Meetings in the Section are relatively large with several thousand Friends. The geographical area of the AWPS region includes numerically large Friends Meetings of the evangelical programmed tradition which have not as yet affiliated with FWCC, although friendly relations are maintained locally.\n\nEurope and Middle East Section (EMES) is numerically the smallest of the Quaker Sections but historically the oldest and is growing in former Eastern Bloc countries, though declining in so-called Western Europe countries. EMES includes Britain Yearly Meeting, the mother Meeting of Friends, being the heir to the former London Yearly Meeting. Britain Yearly Meeting's \"Faith and Practice\" or book of discipline is used by many Friends around the world as a guide to Friends' practices and procedures. Britain Yearly Meeting is the largest Meeting in the Section with approximately 16,000 Members, followed by Ireland Yearly Meeting with around 1,000 Members. Other Yearly Meetings in Europe are small, in some cases smaller than Monthly Meetings in Asia but retain the name and form of Yearly Meetings for historical reasons.\n\nFriends have a long-standing presence in the Middle East and the Palestine, dating back to Ottoman times. For example, Friends School, Ramallah, is a noted educational centre and Friends are active in attempts to build peace at the grass roots in this troubled area. Britain Yearly Meeting's Quaker Peace and Social Witness (QPSW) is one of the significant international Friends agencies. The FWCC Quaker United Nations Office (QUNO) in Geneva is partly supported by Britain Yearly Meeting. Friends presence at the United Nations has engaged and continues to engage in much quiet diplomacy to reduce violence and build peace around the world. Friends House in Geneva is a quiet haven in a busy international city and hosts Geneva Meeting.\n\nSection of the Americas is numerically the second largest section and includes Friends from all Friends traditions in both North and South America as well as in the Caribbean and Central America. Section of the Americas is officially bi-lingual in Spanish and English, though Canada Yearly Meeting also operates in both English and French. FWCC's other QUNO branch is located adjacent to the New York UN Building and is closely connected with the quasi-Quaker organisation American Friends Service Committee (AFSC). AFSC was founded by Friends and still has a substantially Friends Board of Trustees, however, only the Director of AFSC is required to be a Friend and the vast majority of AFSC staff, including senior staff, are not Friends and are not familiar with Friends worship or testimonies leading to some Friends' Meetings distancing themselves from AFSC and its activities. In 1947 the Nobel Peace Prize was awarded to Friends for 300 years of work for peace and received on behalf of Friends by AFSC and its London counterpart, the Friends Service Committee, now known as Quaker Peace and Social Witness. Approximately 160,000 Friends live in the USA and some 300,000 live in Latin America. US Friends are often relatively affluent whereas many Latin American Friends come from relatively impoverished and oppressed indigenous communities. As in Asia and Africa, in Latin America, Friends are a growing church. Section of the Americas Friends have a long history dating back to the mid-17th Century. Friends founded or helped found a number of the US States, notably Pennsylvania, named after distinguished 17th Century English Friend, William Penn; Rhode Island; New Jersey and Delaware all had substantial Friends' contributions in their founding. William Penn's constitutional documents for Pennsylvania formed an important and influential source for the later United States Constitution. In the early colonial period Friends were persecuted in Massachusetts and New York. Friends also had a substantial impact in the early days of colonisation of the Caribbean, for example in the 17th century and early 18th century 25% of the population of Barbados was Friends. The history of suffering is a uniting factor with Latin American Friends, many of whom live in difficult circumstances and find living the transformative Peace Testimony a daily commitment.\n\nIt is difficult to speak about American Friends as a whole because they represent such a broad and diverse range of Friends traditions, however, it is a tribute to their commitment to Friends beliefs that they respect each other and work together.\n\nThe first World Conference of Friends was held in the U.K. in 1920 and the second, at which FWCC was founded, took place in Pennsylvania in 1937. The third was held in Oxford, U.K. in 1952 and the fourth in Greensboro, North Carolina, U.S.A. in 1967. In 1991, the Fifth World Conference was held on three sites in The Netherlands, Honduras and Kenya. The sixth World Conference was held near Nakuru in Kenya in 2012.\n\nBetween the World Conferences, Triennial meetings of representatives were held up to 2007, when it was decided that there should be longer gaps between these meetings, in part due to environmental concerns.\n\nIn future Plenary Meetings will be held every six to eight years and called International Representatives Meetings. The first of these was held in Peru in January 2016, and the next is planned for South Africa in 2023.\n"}
{"id": "2258177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258177", "title": "Siluria, Alabama", "text": "Siluria, Alabama\n\nSiluria is a former town and now a neighborhood in Alabaster, Alabama, located in Shelby County, Alabama in the Birmingham, Alabama, metropolitan area. It was the home of a large cotton mill and company-built mill village which began operations in 1896 and finally closed in 1979. It was incorporated on 25 May 1954, but was later annexed by Alabaster in May 1971. It's named for the Silurian geological period because of rocks found there. A post office was established in 1872, and remained in operation until it was discontinued in 1972.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258184", "title": "King-Lincoln Park", "text": "King-Lincoln Park\n\nKing-Lincoln Park is an 18.8 acre (76,000 m²) park in Newport News, Virginia. It is maintained by the Newport News Department of Parks, Recreation and Tourism.\n\nKing-Lincoln Park is located at 600 Jefferson Avenue, where the road meets the waters of Hampton Roads harbor.\nIt was originally known as Pinkett beach.\n\nThe land that makes up King-Lincoln Park was known as Pinkett's Beach until it was turned into a park by the city in 1968. It was originally known as Lincoln Park to honor Abraham Lincoln. After the assassination of Martin Luther King, Jr., the park's name was changed to honor him as well.\n\nRecently, an effort has been made to drop the Lincoln name from the park and rename it Martin Luther King Jr. Park.\n\nThe park offers visitors a saltwater fishing pier, a beach, basketball courts, tennis courts, a playground and picnic shelters. A stage has been built at the park for presentation of events such as concerts. A nature center with interpretive programs is present. Floral gardens are planned.\n"}
{"id": "2258186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258186", "title": "Typhoon Haitang (2005)", "text": "Typhoon Haitang (2005)\n\nTyphoon Haitang, known in the Philippines as Typhoon Feria, was the first super typhoon of the 2005 season in the northwestern Pacific. It had winds up to 260 km/h (160 mph) at peak intensity, and caused over 18 serious injuries and 13 confirmed deaths in Taiwan and People's Republic of China. Damage totaled about $1.1 billion (2005 USD), most of which occurred in mainland China.\n\nAn estimated 15 million people were affected by the typhoon. A total of 2,151 homes were destroyed, of roads were washed out and several thousand power lines were downed by the storm Damage to infrastructure amounted to ¥8 billion (US$1.17 billion).\n\nIn addition, statistics show that the province of Fujian 06,300 houses collapsed, 17,700 damaged; crops affected area of 107,160 hectares, 37,240 hectares disaster area, total destruction of an area of 13,170 hectares, a reduction in 49,000 tons of food, aquatic products loss of breeding area of 08,360 hectares, 64,400 tons; 1028 production of industrial and mining enterprises, roads interrupted 50 times, the destruction of 187.02 kilometers roadbed; damage to the transmission, communications line 359.75 kilometers; 305 damaged embankments, 44.85 kilometers, levee breach 19 Department, 1.4 km, damaged embankment, irrigation facilities in 1348, damaged locks, hydrological stations, electrical and mechanical pumping station, Station 238, 110 destroyed.\n\nFlood Control and Drought Prevention Headquarters from Zhejiang Province, show that, as of 16:00 yesterday afternoon, Zhejiang province tolls in direct economic losses amounting to 5.46 billion yuan. Direct loss of water conservancy facilities in which 582 million yuan, transportation and communications facilities direct loss power 1.81 billion yuan, agricultural 1.92 billion yuan in direct economic losses. Economic losses mainly concentrated in the Wenzhou region, accounting for the loss of local loss of more than 70% of the total.\n\nFlood Control and Drought Relief headquarters in Zhejiang Province, deputy director of the Office of Yao-wei on that by the typhoon, southern Zhejiang and other places persistent heavy rainfall, Wenzhou Yongjia, Yueqing water and other cities and towns, townships, etc. Cangnan Town flooded water, water, the deepest water of Town more than 4 meters deep.\n\nYao Wei said on, according to Flood Control and Drought Prevention Headquarters of Zhejiang cities reported preliminary summary statistics of the disaster, a total of four City Zhejiang 26 counties (cities), 465 villages and towns affected 6.092 million people, the collapse of housing 5710.Crops affected 183,220 hectares of farmland, destroyed an area of 45,400 hectares, 62,769 industrial and mining production, interrupted Highway 447, 598.2 kilometers roadbed damage, 522.7 kilometers of transmission line damage, damage to communication lines 408.7 kilometers, or damage to beware of 1112, 203.0 kilometers, levee breach 653, 46.6 kilometers, 60 small hydropower stations. At present, there are more than 700 people trapped inside, casualties need to enter a verification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258187", "title": "Eric Ives", "text": "Eric Ives\n\nEric William Ives (12 July 1931 – 25 September 2012) was a British historian and an expert on the Tudor period. He was Emeritus Professor of English History at the University of Birmingham. In 2001 he was awarded the Order of the British Empire by Queen Elizabeth II in recognition of his services to history.\n\nIves was born on 12 July 1931, Essex, England into a Plymouth Brethren family. He was educated at Brentwood School, then an all-boys public school in Brentwood, Essex. He studied history at Queen Mary College, London, graduating with Bachelor of Arts (BA). He then went on to complete his Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) from the same university.\n\nOn 24 November 1955, as part of national service, he was commissioned into the Education Branch of the Royal Air Force as a pilot officer. He was given the service number 2766509. He was promoted to flying officer on 24 November 1956, and to flight lieutenant on 24 May 1957.\n\nFollowing his two-year nation service, he worked for a short time with the History of Parliament Trust as a research assistant. The next four years were spent as a Fellow at the University of Birmingham's Shakespeare Institute, Stratford-upon-Avon. From 1961, he was a lecturer in Modern History at the University of Liverpool. In 1967, he returned to the University of Birmingham as a history lecture. In 1987, he was appointed Professor of English History and Dean of the Faculty of Arts, a position he retained until his retirement in 1997. From 1989 until 1993 he was also pro-vice-chancellor, an important position in the overall running of the university. He was head of the Modern History department from 1994 until 1997.\n\nHe was particularly noted for his work on the life of Anne Boleyn, the second wife and queen of King Henry VIII of England. His theories on her life have drawn him into fierce debate with the American historian Retha Warnicke, who wrote \"The Rise and Fall of Anne Boleyn\" in 1989 to challenge Ives's findings. He began researching Anne Boleyn about 1979, publishing the results in 1986. The biography, \"Anne Boleyn\", was modified and expanded for re-publication in 2004 under the new title of \"The Life and Death of Anne Boleyn\". In 2009, he published a study of Lady Jane Grey and the circumstances of her accession and downfall.\n\nHe also wrote extensively on the History of Law and the development of modern higher education. His biographical writing on Tudor courtiers covers the Welsh land-owning magnate William Brereton, who was unjustly condemned to death in 1536 on the false charge of being Anne Boleyn's lover. In 2000 the University of Birmingham Press published \"The First Civic University: Birmingham, 1880-1980 - An Introductory History\", which he co-wrote with Diane K. Drummond and Leonard Schwarz.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258193", "title": "Archdiocese of Vad, Feleac and Cluj", "text": "Archdiocese of Vad, Feleac and Cluj\n\nThe Archdiocese of Vad, Feleac and Cluj is an episcopal see of the Romanian Orthodox Church. Cathedral of this archbishopric is the Dormition of the Theotokos Cathedral in Cluj.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258202", "title": "HMS Vulcan", "text": "HMS Vulcan\n\nEight ships and a shore establishment of the Royal Navy have borne the name HMS \"Vulcan\", after the god Vulcan, of Roman mythology:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258210", "title": "Stationary wavelet transform", "text": "Stationary wavelet transform\n\nThe Stationary wavelet transform (SWT) is a wavelet transform algorithm designed to overcome the lack of translation-invariance of the discrete wavelet transform (DWT). Translation-invariance is achieved by removing the downsamplers and upsamplers in the DWT and upsampling the filter coefficients by a factor of formula_1 in the formula_2th level of the algorithm. The SWT is an inherently redundant scheme as the output of each level of SWT contains the same number of samples as the input – so for a decomposition of N levels there is a redundancy of N in the wavelet coefficients. This algorithm is more famously known as \"\"algorithme à trous\"\" in French (word \"trous\" means holes in English) which refers to inserting zeros in the filters. It was introduced by Holschneider et al.\n\nThe following block diagram depicts the digital implementation of SWT.\nIn the above diagram, filters in each level are up-sampled versions of the previous (see figure below).\n\nKIT\n\nA few applications of SWT are specified below.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258212", "title": "CUC International", "text": "CUC International\n\nCUC (Comp-U-Card) International Inc. was a membership-based consumer services conglomerate with travel, shopping, auto, dining, home improvement and financial services offered to more than 60 million customers worldwide based out of Stamford, Connecticut and founded by Kirk Shelton and Walter Forbes. In 1998, it became involved in a Securities and Exchange Commission investigation into what, at the time, was the biggest accounting scandal in corporate history.\n\nTheir main product, a shopping service, originally a membership telephone-based drop-ship service called Comp-U-Card begun in 1973, was made available online to users of The Source in the mid-1980s, and later CompuServe after its purchase of The Source. It later offered its Shoppers Advantage service on America Online, Prodigy, GEnie and Delphi as well. It was perhaps the first company conducting electronic commerce, although its web based service first went online in 1995.\n\nFounded in 1973 by Walter Forbes, CUC's main line of operations was its mail-order clubs such as Shopper’s Advantage, AutoVantage, Traveler’s Advantage, and its Comp-U-Card program, and had been trying to find a way to streamline its clubs and sell retail through a kind of interactive televisions. In an age before the internet and sites such as Amazon.com, this idea was innovative.\n\nCUC went through various company presidents and lost a lot of money during the ‘70’s and by 1979 was losing more than $2 million a year. By 1983, Forbes and his company had found investors such as Reader's Digest and Eckerd Drugs but had lost nearly $14 million. After licensing their “interactive shopping” idea in Europe, the Morgan Stanley group took CUC public in the United States in 1983 and raised $20 million.\n\nThroughout the 1980s and early 1990s, CUC continued to grow and acquire other companies. They made strategic deals with other entertainment, communication, retail and investment companies such as America Online and AT&T. and grew to have over 30 million customers via their mail order clubs. CUC never made any large acquisitions until 1995. Prior to that time, all acquisitions were relatively small and strategic.\n\nIn February 1996, seeking to expand its operations into the field of interactive entertainment, CUC approached software companies Sierra On-Line Inc. and Davidson & Associates Inc. They bought Sierra for $1.5 billion and Davidson for $1.6 billion, both in stock. These acquisitions allowed CUC, as a larger outlet, to streamline its distribution network. In addition, product placements and advertisements in these software companies’ products allowed CUC to find new customers in demographics it had not reached before. \n\nIn December 1997, CUC merged with HFS Incorporated. A competition was held internally at CUC, primarily among their senior marketing staff but open to all employees, to come up with a new corporate name. The winner was to receive dinner \"anywhere in the world\". No employee submission was selected to win, as the name of the company had already been decided. The new company was named Cendant.\nAfter the merger, Cendant retained its core business as a direct marketer and thereafter also specialized in Hotel Franchises, Car Rentals, Travel agencies, and its consumer software operations, Cendant Software. The merger of these two companies, which between them owned \"a virtual monopoly in the worldwide market for full-service timeshare exchange services,\" according to the Federal Trade Commission, caused the FTC to require \"the parties to divest one of their timeshare exchange companies to re-establish a viable competitor in the market\" \n\nCendant Software, composed of Sierra, Davidson & Associates (including Blizzard Entertainment), Knowledge Adventure and Gryphon Software, was sold in 1998 to French publisher Havas, which then merged with Vivendi, which then merged with Activision.\n\nAfter the accounting scandal, the original \"Comp-U-Card\" division was bought out by some remaining executives and reorganized into a company called Trilegiant. It was later renamed Affinion Group, and is still located in Stamford, Connecticut.\n\nOn October 23, 2005, Cendant Corporation announced its decision to split into four separate companies: Realogy, Travelport, Wyndham Worldwide and Avis Budget Group.\"\n\nOn April 16, 1998, less than one year after the new brand was introduced, Cendant disclosed that for three years prior to the merger, CUC had fraudulently overstated its income by over US$500 million. This caused Cendant stock to plummet from $39 to $20 in a single day, eventually reaching $9, and costing shareholders about US$14 billion. Cendant/CUC was eventually required to pay more than US$2.85 billion in class action settlements to shareholders.\n\nThe Securities and Exchange Commission brought civil charges against CUC president Kirk Shelton, and CEO and Chairman Walter Forbes, for the \"long-running financial fraud\", which, it alleged, started in 1995. The SEC stated that CUC inflated its books in order to inflate its stock price, which allowed it to use its stock to buy other companies; and in turn these mergers and acquisitions were executed in order to generate financial reserves and purchase reserves that were intended to be \"big enough to bury the fraud\".\n\nShelton was convicted in January 2005 of 12 counts of fraud and related charges, and sentenced to 10 years in prison. Shelton and Forbes were tried together; although Shelton was convicted of all 12 charges brought, the jury was unable to reach a verdict for Forbes on any charge. A hung jury deadlocked Forbes' second trial also, and a third trial was set for September 2006. Retried and convicted, he was sentenced to 12 years on January 17, 2007. Former CUC Chief Financial Officer Cosmo Corigliano, former Comptroller Anne Pember, and former accountant Casper Sabatino all plead guilty in June 2000 to several fraud and related charges.\n\nIn addition to their prison terms, both Shelton and Forbes were each ordered to pay Cendant US$3.275 billion in restitution. Cendant is unlikely to ever receive the full amount, as according to the payment schedule of US$2,000 per month ordered by the judge, it would take over 134,000 years to pay. \n\nInvestigators found that over US$500 million in nonexistent company income had been reported during 1996 and 1997. Membership sales revenue had been overreported, and membership cancellations information held back, allowing for the company's earnings to be manipulated at will. With too much debt and too little real income, however, the real resources of the company were dwindling, despite the considerable flotation of the stock numbers. As the imaginary books and the real company finances diverged more and more, the requirements of appearances became greater. Even the cooked books were insufficient to cover all of the company's losses, at which time they turned to mergers with, and acquisition of, new companies. Purchased companies' assets could be similarly inflated, and the increase either boost operating income, or write off losses. The misreporting of assets by CUC from 1995 to 1997 is similar to that performed during the Enron scandal and other recent frauds. \n\n"}
{"id": "2258223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258223", "title": "Ignace Tiegerman", "text": "Ignace Tiegerman\n\nIgnacy Tiegerman (24 February 189331 May 1968), usually seen as Ignace, but also Ignaz, was a Polish pianist and teacher.\n\nHe was an exceptional interpreter of the Romantic school (Field, Chopin, Brahms, et al.). He studied with Theodor Leschetizky but his lessons with Leschetizky's assistant Ignaz Friedman were more significant. Tiegerman considered Friedman his mentor, and Friedman deemed him \"the greatest talent I ever worked with.\"\n\nHis recordings are highly regarded, despite their not being of studio sound quality in most cases. He was said to be the only rival Vladimir Horowitz ever feared. Due to health reasons, he spent most of his life teaching in Cairo.\n\nHis finest pupil was Henri Barda, and he also taught Edward Said, Mario Feninger, Nicolas Constantinidis, and Prince Hassan Aziz Hassan. Hassan called him \"a wonder of human realization\" and Said later recalled many wonderful late-night conversations with him\n\n"}
{"id": "2258228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258228", "title": "Noel Hogan", "text": "Noel Hogan\n\nNoel Anthony Hogan (born 25 December 1971) is an Irish musician and record producer best known as the lead guitarist and co-songwriter of the Irish alt-rock band the Cranberries.\n\nHogan formed the Cranberries with his brother Mike and drummer Fergal Lawler in 1989. The group recruited Dolores O'Riordan as singer soon after forming. The band went on to sell in excess of 40 million records worldwide. In total, Hogan has released eight albums with the Cranberries.\n\nThe Cranberries went on a six-year hiatus from 2003 to 2009. However, after lead singer Dolores O'Riordan's death on 15 January 2018, Hogan confirmed that the Cranberries had disbanded after the release of the posthumous album \"In the End\", saying : \"The Cranberries without Dolores just isn't The Cranberries, we won't replace our friend and lead singer\".\n\nWith the Cranberries on hiatus from 2003–2009, Hogan turned to focus on his own music. He began working with programmer Matt Vaughan, who had already done work on unreleased Cranberries songs and Dolores O'Riordan's solo material. Mono Band was born with Noel as the sole band member. With vocals being supplied by Richard Walters, Alexandra Hamnede, Kate Havnevik, and other guest artists, Noel worked with Cranberries' veteran producer Stephen Street to compile a mix of 12 tracks. Working on his side project at the same time, saw their resulting debut album, \"Mono Band\", released on 20 May 2005.\nHogan and Mono Band vocalist Richard Walters went on to form Arkitekt. Arkitekt released two EPs at that time in 2009, working on new material.\n\nHogan's work independent of the Cranberries has been released on his own label, Gohan Records and is published through Fairwood Music (UK) Ltd for the world.\n\nHogan has also been producing bands on the local music scene of Limerick. Gohan Records has recently released, in collaboration with Limerick Live 95FM's Green and Live show, Tonelist, a collection featuring better-known and up and coming musicians in the Limerick music scene.\n\nHogan's musical equipment that he has used with the Cranberries over the years includes:\n\nGuitars\n\nAmplifiers\n\nEffects\n\n"}
{"id": "2258231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258231", "title": "Anthopleura", "text": "Anthopleura\n\nAnthopleura is a genus of sea anemones, of the family Actiniidae.\n\nAccording to the World Register of Marine Species, this genus includes:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258234", "title": "The Progressive Blues Experiment", "text": "The Progressive Blues Experiment\n\nThe Progressive Blues Experiment is the debut album by Johnny Winter. \"The Progressive Blues Experiment\" was originally issued on Austin's Sonobeat Records label in 1968. When Winter signed to Columbia Records, the rights were sold to Imperial Records who reissued the album in 1969.\n\nWinter plays here in a trio with his late-sixties band. Several blues artists are covered including B.B. King (\"It's My Own Fault\"), Sonny Boy Williamson (\"Help Me\"), and Slim Harpo (\"I Got Love If You Want It\").\n\nThe Imperial edition of the album reached number 40 on the \"Billboard\" 200 albums chart. In 2005, Capitol issued a 24-bit remastered edition of this recording on CD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258236", "title": "Because of You (Kelly Clarkson song)", "text": "Because of You (Kelly Clarkson song)\n\n\"Because of You\" is a song recorded by American pop singer Kelly Clarkson for her second studio album, \"Breakaway\" (2004). It was written by Clarkson along with its producers David Hodges and Ben Moody, both from Evanescence. It was released on August 16, 2005 by RCA Records, as the third single from \"Breakaway\". Clarkson originally wrote \"Because of You\" when she was 16 years old to cope with the emotional distress caused by her parents' divorce. She wanted the song to be included on her debut studio album, \"Thankful\" (2003), but her record label rejected the song. She then polished the song with Hodges and Moody before successfully convincing her label to include it on \"Breakaway\".\n\nLyrically, \"Because of You\" explores the pain of Clarkson’s deteriorating relationship with her father. The song begins with a piano-led melody and as it launches into the chorus, the sound of a roaring guitar becomes apparent. \"Because of You\" received positive reviews from music critics, who complimented its expressive lyrics, creative arrangement, and Clarkson's vocal prowess. It peaked at number seven on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and sold over 2 million digital downloads in the United States. It was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). \"Because of You\" became Clarkson's biggest success in Europe, topping the European Hot 100 Singles chart. It also reached number one in Brazil, the Netherlands, Denmark and Switzerland, as well as the top ten in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe song's accompanying music video was directed by Vadim Perelman. Clarkson wrote the treatment for the video herself in order to reflect the pain that she felt due to her parents' divorce. The video's plot centers on Clarkson engaging in a heated argument with her husband in front of her child before realizing that she was repeating her parents' mistake. It won in the category for Best Female Video at the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards. \"Because of You\" was performed live at numerous venues, including the My December Tour (2007) as well as the All I Ever Wanted Tour (2009). It was covered by several artists including Ronan Parke, who was a runner-up in the fifth series of \"Britain's Got Talent\", and added to the international soundtrack of Brazilian soap opera \"Belíssima\". In 2007, the song was recorded by Reba McEntire as a duet with Clarkson, which was released as a lead single for McEntire's twenty-fourth studio album \"\". This version reached number 36 on the Canadian Hot 100. \"Piece by Piece\", the title track from Clarkson's seventh studio album, serves as the canonical sequel to \"Because of You\".\n\n\"Because of You\" was written by Clarkson alongside its producer, David Hodges and Ben Moody. They also wrote and produced another track, titled \"Addicted\", that appeared in Clarkson's album \"Breakaway\" (2004). Clarkson originally wrote \"Because of You\" when she was 16 years old as a means of coping with the emotional distress caused by the divorce of her parents. She wrote the lyrics of the song in less than 25 minutes.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Guardian\", Clarkson said that she wanted to include the song in her first album, \"Thankful\" (2003), but she was laughed at. Then she took the initiative to polish the song by sending a tape to Moody and Hodges, with whom she later worked, and received co-writing credit of the song. Clarkson explained, \"Hearing the Evanescence album, you can obviously tell that David and Ben have a real passion for music and that big kind of background. And I have a big voice and I like the music to match it, so it was a real dream team.\"\n\nAccording to Moody, he was very impressed with Clarkson and the song itself, saying \"She had these ideas already in place for songs; all I really had to do was build music around them and develop them. It was quite easy.\" Clarkson also admitted that \"Because of You\" is the most depressing song she has ever written. Despite the revelation, she told \"Entertainment Weekly\" in August 2011 that she wanted to be remembered for the song because she had to work hard to get it on \"Breakaway\" (2004) when everyone was against it. She added, \"I think I’m most proud of that song – just getting it on an album because no one liked it until it hit no. 1 worldwide and everybody was on board.\"\n\n\"Because of You\" is a piano ballad with a length of three minutes and 39 seconds. It is set in common time and has a moderate tempo of 69 beats per minute. The song is composed in the key of F minor, and then modulated to the key of G minor, with Clarkson's vocal range spanning over two octaves from G#3 to F5. Tony Heywood of MusicOMH noted that the song's piano arrangement is reminiscent of Tori Amos. Lyrically, \"Because of You\" is a fiery ode to Clarkson's father, and begins with Clarkson singing \"oohs\" over a somber piano which creates a \"wintry tone.\" As the song launches into the chorus, the roaring guitar is evident, and the lyrics, \"Because of you I never stray too far from the sidewalk / Because of you I learned to play on the safe side so I don’t get hurt,\" were deemed as \"touching\" by Dave Donelly of Sputnikmusic.\n\n\"Because of You\" received universal critical acclaim. Film Laureate of Blogcritics considered \"Because of You\" and \"Where Is Your Heart\" as his two favorite songs from \"Breakaway,\" writing \"[Clarkson] commands these two songs like a seasoned pro and directs herself in her songs the way Steven Spielberg said Barbra Streisand directs herself in her songs as if she's directing an actor in a movie.\" Dave Donnelly of Sputnikmusic compared the song to Evanescence's \"My Immortal\" (2003). (Note that two of the songwriters and producers of \"My Immortal\" were also involved in this track.) He added that Clarkson managed to take the piano-driven song in a different direction with a \"stormy, hard blues vocal... avoiding the typical raised-key final chorus cliché along the way\". Christa L. Titus of \"Billboard\" lauded the song for its absence of schmaltz factor, \"only a potent, pained, grown-up anthem of gross betrayal and loss.\" She concluded her review, writing \"it is time for Clarkson to return to No. 1 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100; she has certainly become the most consistent hope for top 40 staple status.\"\n\nCritics also lauded Clarkson's vocal prowess in the song. Pam Avoledo of Blogcritics thought that vocally, the song is Clarkson's \"shining\" moment. Tony Heywood of MusicOMH noted that in the song, Clarkson's voice is \"full of vulnerability, ache and wounded pride.\" On May 15, 2007, the song was listed as one of the recipients of BMI Pop Awards. At the 24th ASCAP Pop Music Awards, the song was honoured with the Most Performed Songs award. In July 2008, BBC News reported that according to Performing Right Society, \"Because of You\" was the second most played song in the United Kingdom over the last five years, following Daniel Powter's \"Bad Day\" (2005). On March 5, 2013, \"Billboard\" ranked the song at number seven in its list of Top 100 American Idol Hits of All Time. Additionally, it also appeared at number five of Clarkson's Top 15 Biggest \"Billboard\" Hot 100 hits through the week ending April 29, 2017.\n\n\"Because of You\" entered the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 99 on the week ending September 3, 2005. On November 19, 2005, the song peaked at number seven and became her sixth single to reach the top-ten. It also topped the Pop Songs chart on the week ending October 29, 2005. It became the seventh best selling single of the 2000s decade on the Pop Songs chart compiled by \"Billboard\". On January 31, 2008, \"Because of You\" was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). As of September 2017, the song has sold 2,079,000 digital copies in the United States. The single also appeared and peaked on the UK Singles Chart at number seven on the week ending December 4, 2005. As of April 2016, the song sold over 430,000 copies in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn Australia, the song debuted and peaked at number four on the issue dated December 5, 2005. It was certified gold by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments over 35,000 units. The song became the 58th best-selling single in Australia in 2006. In New Zealand, \"Because of You\" debuted on New Zealand Singles Chart at number 37 on the week ending December 5, 2005, and peaked at number 19 two weeks later. On the week ending March 20, 2006, \"Because of You\" debuted at number eight on the German Singles Chart. Three weeks later, it peaked at number four and stayed in the position for three consecutive weeks. The song was certified gold by The Federal Association of Music Industry for shipments over 150,000 copies. In Europe, \"Because of You\" received a commercial success. The song topped the charts in the Netherlands and Switzerland, and reached the top five in Austria, Belgium (Flanders), Ireland and Norway.\n\nThe accompanying music video for \"Because of You\" was directed by Vadim Perelman and was produced by Rhonda Vernet. Clarkson wrote the treatment for the video herself in order to reflect the pain that she felt due to her parents' divorce. Nevertheless, Clarkson also allowed Perelman to take control of the production of the video. According to Perelman, he wanted to create a disconnection to show \"that this kind of dysfunctional family can exist anywhere.\" In an interview with MTV News, Clarkson confessed that the video is sad, rationalizing, \"It's a sad song, so the video obviously has to follow that. But it ends really happy and everything and the family, my family, ends up breaking the cycle of my parents.\" Since the music video deals specifically with her parents' divorce, Clarkson had to seek for her parents' permission. She explained,\n\"It's very close to home [for me]. I OK'd it with my family and everything because they think it's important, because we're obviously very different now than we were when we were younger. And it's important for people to see that raw kind of emotion that happens in life. It sucks sometimes, so it's important to see that I think. And that's what we're portraying in the video.\"\nIn the video, the younger version of Clarkson is played by Kennedy Nöel, the daughter of her musical director, Jason Halbert. The video premiered on October 3, 2005, on \"Total Request Live\".\n\nThe video starts at the Clarksons' household. There, she and her husband are engaged in a heated argument and he threatens to smash down a picture of the family at one point. Time freezes still and her husband becomes immobile; Clarkson, however, is immune to this. Looking around her house, she sees her younger self. Hand in hand, the younger and older versions of Clarkson relive her troubled childhood as various painful memories are seen, such as the younger Clarkson making a picture for her father who tosses it into the sink while talking on the phone, and Clarkson's mother making an unappreciated dinner for her father as she puts the father's dinner into the bin on a stormy evening. These events drive her mother to the point of taking pills before closing the door in the younger Clarkson's face, so that she doesn't see her starting to cry. The breaking point is finally seen when Clarkson's parents have a physical fight and throw objects at each other. Soon after, Clarkson's father packs his bags and leaves despite the younger Clarkson's pleas for him to stay. The older Clarkson runs back in time to the present, and instead of fighting with her husband, they make up. They then see that their daughter in the video had seen them fight, and they embrace her and each other. Throughout the music video, Clarkson is shown singing on the front porch, her mother's bed and a room full of mirrors, reflecting an image of her younger self. Note that Kelly is holding Kennedy's hand in the scene where the childhood memories are revealed.\n\nElizabeth Black of VH1 ranked the music video at number four in her list of \"Five Emotive Music Video Performances.\" She reasoned, \"Kelly Clarkson practically sobs her way through this hurt and angry expression of the pain that the narrator’s father has caused her through his absence and lack of love.\" The same opinion was echoed by Johnni Macke of E! who felt that watching the music video was heartbreaking. She explained, \"It really paints a picture of the heartbreak that comes from your family fighting in front of you. Clarkson gets real as she sings the sad lyrics and witnesses the sadness that comes when someone breaks your family into pieces.\" The music video won the category of Best Female Video at the 2006 MTV Video Music Awards. This marks the second time Clarkson has won the same category two years in a row; her first win in the category was at the 2005 MTV Video Music Awards for the music video of \"Since U Been Gone.\" The music video was also nominated in the category of Viewer's Choice Award, but lost to Fall Out Boy's \"Dance, Dance\" (2005). At the 2006 MuchMusic Video Awards, the music video won the category of . The video was also nominated at the 2006 MTV Australia Video Music Awards in the category of Best Pop Video, but lost to Ashlee Simpson's \"Boyfriend\" (2005). According to Jocelyn Vena of MTV, the video for \"Because of You\" was referenced in Taylor Swift's music video for \"Mine\" (2010), writing \"When Swift's character remembers the fights her parents used to have, her memories mirror Clarkson's attempts to exorcise the demons of her past to find love in her future.\"\n\nClarkson performed \"Because of You\" at the 48th Grammy Awards which took place on February 8, 2006, at the Staples Center in Los Angeles, California. Donning a red dress and singing from beside a grand piano, her performance in that event garnered positive reviews from critics. Elysa Gardner of \"USA Today\" lauded Clarkson's performance and ranked it as one of the three best performances, writing, \"The pre-performance clip of a girlish-looking Clarkson emphasized how little Kelly has matured. The girl most likely to escape the \"American Idol\" stigma was in fine, creamy voice, and kept the Mariah-esque riffing to a minimum.\" Robert Lloyd of the \"Los Angeles Times\" considered Clarkson's performance as one of the highlights in the event and described her performance as a \"thin-skinned rendition [...] in which her whole being seemed involved.\" Yahoo! Music praised Clarkson's rendition of the song, calling it \"perfectly fine\" despite the saying that it was \"a little reminiscent of those many mediocre, superficial ballads trotted out on 'Idol.'\" In 2016, the performance was listed by \"Billboard\" as one of Clarkson's ten \"most powerful and undeniable performances.\" Jason Scott of \"Billboard\" commented, \"Here, Clarkson serves up her signature power ballad backed by lush orchestration, sending chills through the crowd shortly before picking up two statues: best pop vocal album for \"Breakaway\" and best female pop vocal performance for \"Since U Been Gone.\"\n\nOn August 21, 2007, Clarkson performed \"Because of You\" and \"Never Again\" (2007) on the fifth season of \"Canadian Idol\". \"Because of You\" was performed at the My December Tour (2007). Clarkson's performance of the song was accompanied only by Wurlitzer organ that earned her a prolonged ovation when she sent her voice soaring into the rafters. While touring at Beacon Theatre, New York City, Clarkson performed the song using only one keyboard, which was deemed by Donna Freydkin of \"USA Today\" as the most memorable moment of the event. She also performed the song using only a keyboard as an instrument during her tour at Massey Hall, Toronto. \"Because of You\" was also performed at the All I Ever Wanted Tour (2009). Clarkson's performance of the song during the tour in the Hammerstein Ballroom, New York City, was given a positive review by Jim Cantiello of MTV. He explained that Clarkson's powerful rendition \"literally stopped the show [...] for almost 30 seconds because the audience erupted in such wild applause.\" Caryn Ganz of \"Rolling Stone\" noted that Clarkson sang the song to pay homage to Reba McEntire who was in the audience.\n\n\nRecording\n\nPersonnel\n\nSource:\n\nLisa Tucker covered the song on the fifth season of \"American Idol\" in 2006. However, her performance was met with negative reviews from the judges and she was consequently eliminated from the show.\nOn June 4, 2011, \"Britain's Got Talent\" contestant, Ronan Parke covered \"Because of You\" in the finale of the fifth series of the show. Parke also recorded the song and included it in his debut album, \"Ronan Parke\". In an interview with Digital Spy, Parke stated that it was really challenging to record \"Because of You.\" He added, \"I asked the producer if we could leave out some of the big notes. We left them until the end and I was actually a bit scared by the noise that came out of me - I didn't know I could sound that loud!\" \"Because of You\" was also covered by Kim Bo Kyung, who was a contestant in South Korean singing competition show, \"Superstar K2.\" Her performance received positive response from the judges and was considered as one of the highlights in the show even though she failed to advance into the Top 11. Following her elimination, she recorded the studio version of \"Because of You\" which was released as a digital download by Sony Music Entertainment due to an overwhelming demand. She also received a personal video message from Clarkson who gave her words of advice and support. The song also was covered by Orange Caramel, a South Korean girl group, on Christmas Day for MBC's special programme, \"ICON\". Besides these cover versions, \"Because of You\" was also included in international soundtrack to Brazilian soap opera \"Belíssima\".\n\nIn 2007, Clarkson re-recorded \"Because of You\" as a duet with American country singer Reba McEntire. The song was released as a single on May 15, 2007, as the lead single for McEntire's album, \"\". The duet garnered mixed reviews from critics who felt that even though McEntire's singing was pleasant, she brought nothing new to the song. At the 50th Grammy Awards, McEntire and Clarkson received a nomination for Best Vocal Country Collaboration for the song. In the United States, \"Because of You\" became McEntire's seventh song to peak at number two at Hot Country Songs. It also became Clarkson's second song to appear on the chart. The music video was directed by Roman White which depicts McEntire and Clarkson as two retro Hollywood lounge singers. The plot centers on Clarkson's relationship with her abusive partner which is witnessed by McEntire. The song was performed live by the two singers in various venues, notably at the 42nd Annual Academy of Country Music Awards and during their 2 Worlds 2 Voices Tour.\n\nAccording to McEntire, Clarkson was the first singer to pair up with her for the album \"\" (2007). She also claimed that \"Because of You\" was not the original song to be included in the album; it was another song that she recorded with Clarkson, titled \"A Lot Like You.\" McEntire explained that it was Narvel, her husband, who convinced her to go back in the studio and record \"Because of You\" after he heard both McEntire and Clarkson rehearsing the song. She expressed, \"Narvel saw it. That wasn't one of the songs we had talked about recording – matter of fact, Kelly and I had already recorded a song, 'A Lot Like You,' for the duet project, and he said, 'You've got to do this one together,' so we did.\" Musically, the song is different from the original version. Thom Jhurek of Allmusic described the duet version as \"a big, overblown power ballad\" which incorporates \"guitars compressed to the breaking point, sweeping strings, and enormous crashing cymbals.\" The use of violin was also incorporated into the duet, giving it a melodramatic quality that was deemed \"unnecessary\" by Nancy Dunham of Blogcritics. The song was officially sent to radio stations on May 15, 2007, as the lead single from the album. It was added to country radio playlists on May 28, 2007.\n\nThe song received mixed reviews from critics. Lana Cooper of PopMatters loved the duet and deemed it as \"the most unique track on the album.\" She also felt that McEntire and Clarkson complemented each other in the song, writing \"The double-feature cover of Clarkson’s hit showcases two women with exceptional and distinctive voices playing to one another’s strengths.\" The same opinion was echoed by Nancy Dunham of Blogcritics who believed that \"the two use just the right amount of vocal passion to make the ardent lyrics come alive, but stay out of the cheese zone.\" Scott Sexton of About.com lauded the duet version of the song, writing \"As of now anything Reba touches turns to gold, but with this hit alone she has a great shot at platinum.\" Kevin John Coyne of Country Universe praised McEntire's beautiful singing although he said that she did not bring \"anything new\" to the song. He also added that the song \"had the potential to be reworked into an interesting mother/daughter confrontation\" but he was disappointed because McEntire did not change the viewpoints of the song. He graded the production of the song as \"C-\", writing \"The end result is the song doesn’t make any sense, and is just confusing to listen to.\" Thom Jurek of Allmusic criticized the instrumentation of the song, saying \"This could have been a Meat Loaf reject from \"\".\" Gayle Thompson of The Boot ranked \"Because of You\" at number ten in her list of \"Top 20 Reba McEntire songs.\" She also included both McEntire and Clarkson at number six for their duet of \"Because of You\" in her list of \"Cross Country: Top 10 Country-Pop Duets.\" Gary Trust of \"Billboard\" listed the pair as one of the 10 all-female hit collaborations that have scaled \"Billboard\" charts in recent years. On March 5, 2013, \"Billboard\" ranked the song #71 in its list of Top 100 American Idol Hits of All Time.\n\nAt the 42nd Annual Academy of Country Music Awards, McEntire and Clarkson received a nomination in the category of Musical Event of the Year for \"Because of You,\" but lost to Tracy Lawrence with Kenny Chesney and Tim McGraw for their collaboration in \"Find Out Who Your Friends Are\" (2006). At the 50th Grammy Awards, McEntire and Clarkson received a nomination in the category of Best Vocal Country Collaboration for the song, but lost to Willie Nelson and Ray Price. The pair also received a nomination for the Vocal Event of the Year at the 2008 Academy of Country Music, but lost to Tracy Lawrence with Kenny Chesney and Tim McGraw for their collaboration in \"Find Out Who Your Friends Are\". At the 2008 ASCAP Country Music Awards, the song was honoured with the Most Performed Songs award.\n\nIn the United States, \"Because of You\" debuted at number 42 on the Hot Country Songs on the week ending June 2, 2007. On the week ending September 8, 2007, the song jumped to its new peak at number two and was held off the top spot by Rodney Atkins' \"These Are My People\" (2007). It became McEntire's seventh song to peak at number two, and her first in over ten years.\nHad the song jumped to number one, it would have been McEntire's 23rd number one song on the chart as well as the first remake of a pop song to top Hot Country Songs since Mark Chesnutt's cover of Aerosmith's \"I Don't Want to Miss a Thing\" spent two weeks at number one in 1999. \"Because of You\" also made an appearance on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 at number 52, and peaked at number 50. This version has sold 621,000 copies in the US as of September 2017. In Canada, \"Because of You\" debuted at number 60 on the Canadian Hot 100 on the week ending July 14, 2007. Two weeks later, the song jumped to a new peak at number 36 and stayed in the position for two weeks. It was certified gold by Music Canada on December 4, 2007 for shipments over 40,000 units.\n\nThe music video, directed by Roman White, debuted on June 21, 2007. It depicts McEntire and Clarkson as 1930's Hollywood lounge singers. In the video, McEntire encounters Clarkson attempting to conceal a bruise inflicted by the latter's abusive partner. When Clarkson's boyfriend is fighting with her, McEntire leaves the dressing room. While performing on stage, Clarkson witnesses her boyfriend played by Andrew M. Springer flirting with another woman. After the performance, she smashes a vase out of anger in the dressing room. Her boyfriend enters the room to take her out for the rest of the evening. Though apprehensive, Clarkson leaves on his arm before looking back uncertainly at McEntire, who uncomfortably fiddles with a hairbrush as she watches them leave. The music video hit number one on CMT's Top 20 Countdown on September 13, 2007. At the 2008 CMT Music Awards, the music video received nominations for three awards. It received a nomination for the Video of the Year, but lost to Taylor Swift's \"Our Song\" (2007) and for the Collaborative Video of the Year, but lost to Bon Jovi featuring LeAnn Rimes, \"Till We Ain't Strangers Anymore\" (2007). Roman White, who directed the music video, received a nomination for the Video Director of the Year, but lost to Michael Salomon.\n\nMcEntire and Clarkson first performed \"Because of You\" together at the 42nd Annual Academy of Country Music Awards in May 2007. A month later, the pair performed the song in an episode of CMT Crossroads at Ryman Auditorium which debuted on Country Music Television on June 24, 2007. On September 19, 2007, they appeared on \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" where they sang the song together. \"Because of You\" was also performed as the encore of the 2 Worlds 2 Voices Tour (2008), a co-headlining concert tour by McEntire and Clarkson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258244", "title": "Albert Sassoon", "text": "Albert Sassoon\n\nSir Albert Abdullah David Sassoon, 1st Baronet , (25 July 181824 October 1896) was a British Iraqi businessman and philanthropist.\n\nSassoon was born on 25 July 1818 in Baghdad into the Sassoon family. He was educated in India. After his father's death, he served as head of his family's merchant company \"David Sassoon & Sons\" (Later called \"David Sassoon & Co.\").\n\nUnder Albert Sassoon's leadership \"David Sassoon & Sons\" established in 1874 in Bombay a new subsidiary, the \"Sassoon Spinning and Weaving Company\", which opened serval cotton mills there. In 1875 the company built the Sassoon Docks, the first wet docks in Bombay. The company was also instrumental in the founding of the Imperial Bank of Persia in 1889.\n\nAfter a visit to England in 1873 Albert Sassoon settled there permanently in 1875 to direct \"David Sassoon & Sons\" from London. The management of the company's affairs in Bombay was left to his younger brother Solomon David Sassoon (1841–1894).\n\nAlbert Sassoon died in Brighton in 1896, aged 78, and was buried in the Sassoon Mausoleum, which he had built in Brighton (England). In 1933 his body was removed and reburied in the Liberal Jewish Cemetery, Willesden in London.\n\nHe was a major benefactor to the city of Bombay. Among his gifts was a significant contribution towards the reconstruction of the Elphinstone High School and the erection of a large equestrian statue of the Prince of Wales, Albert Edward, commemorating his visit to India in 1875. He also financed many scholarships and became a close adviser to the government on educational and building projects.\n\nDavid Sassoon donated Rs. 60,000, while the Government of Bombay Presidency bore the remainder of the cost of Rs. 65,000, for the construction of the David Sassoon Library and Reading Room on Rampart Row, Kala Ghoda in Bombay. Its construction was completed in 1870, and like many buildings in the vicinity such as Elphinstone College, Army and Navy Buildings and Watson's Hotel, it was built using yellow Malad stone. The entrance portico bears his white stone bust.\n\nThe Dr. Bhau Daji Lad Museum, formerly The Victoria and Albert Museum, was built with the patronage of many wealthy Indian businessmen and philanthropists including Albert Sassoon, Sir Jamsetjee Jejeebhoy and Jaganath Shunkerseth. \n\nIn 1866 Sassoon was made a Companion of the Order of the Star of India (CSI), and in 1872 a Knight Companion of the Order of the Bath (KCB). Around the same time he received \"Order of Lion and Sun\" from Shah of Persia for \"work in Persia and his services in development of Persian commerce\". During his visit to England in 1873 he received the freedom of the city of London. After Albert Sassoon had settled in England he was created Baronet Sassoon in 1890.\n\nAlbert Sassoon married Hannah Meyer Moise (1823–1895) in 1838. They had six children. The eldest son was Edward Sassoon (1856–1912), who in turn was the father of Philip Sassoon (1888–1939) and Sybil Cholmondeley, Marchioness of Cholmondeley (1894–1989).\n\nAlbert Sassoon's father, David Sassoon (1792–1864), was a leading Baghdad merchant and a treasurer under Ahmet Pasha, the Governor of Baghdad. However, he fled after he was implicated in a corruption scandal, moving from Baghdad to Bushire, in Iran, and finally settled in Bombay (now Mumbai) in 1832, where he founded a large mercantile business, called \"David Sassoon & Sons\".\n\nAlbert Sassoon's great-great-great-grandson is the actor Jack Huston.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258253", "title": "Batty Bay", "text": "Batty Bay\n\nBatty Bay is a narrow bay in the Qikiqtaaluk Region, Nunavut, Canada. It is an arm of Prince Regent Inlet on the eastern side of Somerset Island.\n\nIt was an area frequented by Arctic explorers such as Sir John Franklin and Captain John Ross, who left his boats there in 1832. William Kennedy (explorer) wintered there in 1852.\n"}
{"id": "2258266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258266", "title": "Cloch", "text": "Cloch\n\nCloch or Cloch Point () is a point on the coast of the Firth of Clyde, Scotland. There has been a lighthouse since 1797 to warn ships off The Gantocks.\n\nCloch Point lies on the A770, north of Inverkip, three miles south-west of Gourock, on the east shore of the Firth of Clyde, directly opposite Dunoon.\n\nThe Cloch Lighthouse was designed by Thomas Smith and his son-in-law Robert Stevenson. The building was completed in 1797. There appear to be two generations of keepers' houses, the older now used as stores and the more recent having crow-stepped gables. The short circular-section tower has a corbelled walkway and triangular windows. The foghorns were added between 1895 and 1897.\nThe light was built by John Clarkson (engineer); Kermack and Gall built the tower, while Smith and Stevenson installed the oil lantern which was first lit on 11 August 1797. The light was replaced in 1829 with an argand lamp and silvered reflector. About 1900, it was lit with acetylene. A radio beacon was installed about 1931.\n\nThe dioptric and catadioptric lenses floated in baths of mercury and were rotated by a clockwork mechanism powered by falling weights. As well as tending the light, the keepers had to wind the mechanism by hand every two to three hours.\n\nToday, the light is fully automated and unmanned. The main light has been replaced by a light on a pole outside the lantern room.\n"}
{"id": "2258272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258272", "title": "Kurakin", "text": "Kurakin\n\nKurakin () is a historical Russian masculine surname. Its feminine counterpart is Kurakina. It may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258277", "title": "Gaius Ummidius Durmius Quadratus", "text": "Gaius Ummidius Durmius Quadratus\n\nGaius Ummidius Durmius Quadratus (c. 12 BCE – c. 60 CE) was a Roman senator of the Principate. He was the first member of the Ummidii to reach the office of consul in his family, or a \"homo novus\". Quadratus is also known for his tenure as Roman governor of Syria from \"c.\" 50 until his death.\n\nGaius Ummidius Durmius Quadratus was born c. 12 BCE. His family, the Ummidii, were wealthy aristocrats from the town of Casinum, Latium. His second family name, \"Durmius\", has been explained in one of two ways: either his mother was a Durmia, or he was a Durmius adopted into the Ummidii. If the latter, this would mean one Marcus Durmius was his father, known to have been a mint official c. 19 BCE; it is commonly agreed that there is some relationship between Quadratus and the mint official.\n\nAlthough it is accepted that Quadratus had at least one child—the wealthy Ummidia Quadratilla, memorialized in one of Pliny the Younger's letters—not only is the name of his wife unknown, but also whether Quadratus had married more than once.\n\nThe \"cursus honorum\" – the sequence of positions held by Roman senators – of Quadratus is known from two inscriptions, one erected while he was governor of Lusitania, the other much later while governor of Syria. It is possible his relative Marcus Durmius helped Quadratus at the beginning of his senatorial career by facilitating his entrance into the \"decemviri stlitibus iudicandis\", one of the four boards that comprised the \"vigintiviri\", a minor magistracy that was a required first step to enter the Senate. Mireille Corbier dates this achievement to the year 14. Upon promotion as a quaestor, he became a member of the Senate; moreover, he achieved a distinction rarely granted to a \"homo novus\": being one of the two imperial quaestores.\n\nFor the following years Quadratus advanced rapidly through the traditional republican magistracies, becoming curule aedile around the year 16 and praetor in 18. Immediately after that office, he became prefect of the \"aerarium Saturni\", or overseer of the treasury of Saturn, then held a special office Tiberius had created: \"curator tabularum publicarum\", or keeper of the public archives; Corbier assigns the dates he held these offices to the years 18 and 19 respectively. Quadratus could have expected to acceded to the consulship upon in due course, but his only known office for many years after conclusion of his tenure as \"curator\" was proconsular governor of Cyprus, a modest public province. Ronald Syme speculates that he had somehow fallen from the Emperor's favour. Quadratus is next attested as governor of the imperial province of Lusitania in 37 CE, administering the oath of allegiance to the new emperor on Tiberius' death. The dates when he started and ended his governorship are uncertain. The previous governor, Fulcinius Trio, returned to Rome before 1 July 31 when he began his tenure as suffect consul; normally governors served for three years at a time, and another man may have been in office between him and Quadratus, but at this point in his reign Tiberius often prolonged the time senators were assigned to imperial provinces; it is possible Quadratus was dispatched to distant Lusitania as early as the year 31, and remained there through the reign of Caligula.\n\nBy the reign of Claudius, Quadratus was definitely back in Rome, for the Syrian inscription attests he was suffect consul at this time. Syme writes he held the fasces \"perhaps in 38 or 39. For discretion, let his consulship be registered as 'c. 40'.\" Soon after leaving his office, Quadratus was admitted to the \"Quindecimviri sacris faciundis\", the priesthood entrusted with care of the Sibylline Books and one of the four most prestigious Roman priesthoods. He did not remain in Rome long, for he is attested appointed by Claudius as governor in \"Illyria\"—either the province of Dalmatia or Pannonia. His governorship of Syria followed.\n\nThe procurator of Iudaea, Ventidius Cumanus, was accused of partiality to the Samaritans, who were at variance with the Galileans, and both parties appealed to Quadratus. The governor went to Samaria in 52 and suppressed the disturbance. The Samaritan and Galilean insurgents were crucified; five (eighteen according to Josephus) Galileans whom the Samaritans pointed out as instigators of the movement were executed in Lydda; the high priest Ananias and Anan, the governor of the Temple, were sent in chains to Rome; and the leaders of the Samaritans, the procurator Cumanus, and the military tribune Celer were also sent to plead their cause before the emperor. In fear of further disturbances, Quadratus hurried to Jerusalem; finding the city peacefully celebrating the Feast of Passover, he returned to Antioch. Cumanus was deposed and was succeeded by Felix, appointed at the request of the high priest, Jonathan, whom also Quadratus had sent to Rome.\n\nTacitus' version of the story can not be reconciled with that of Josephus, since, according to the former, Felix and Cumanus were procurators at the same time, the one in Samaria and the other in Galilee. According to Tacitus, also, Quadratus himself sat in judgment upon Cumanus, and he expressly states that Quadratus was superior to the procurator in authority. Quadratus died during his tenure of office. Several coins struck by him have been found.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258278", "title": "Go Hui-dong", "text": "Go Hui-dong\n\nGo Hui-dong (1886–1965), also known by the pen name Chun-gok, born in Seoul, was the first Korean painter to adopt Western styles. He spent most of his life in Seoul. He studied French there from 1899 to 1903 and briefly took a post with the Korean government. Leaving the post in 1905, he studied Korean painting for several years and then traveled to Japan, where he studied Western-style painting under Kuroda Seiki from 1909 to 1915. He returned to Korea in 1915 and sought to fuse traditional and Korean styles. Currently his house located in Bukchon Village is open to public.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258284", "title": "Lasiocampidae", "text": "Lasiocampidae\n\nThe Lasiocampidae are a family of moths also known as eggars, snout moths (although this also refers to the Pyralidae), or lappet moths. Over 2,000 species occur worldwide, and probably not all have been named or studied.\n\nTheir common name \"snout moths\" comes from the unique protruding mouth parts of some species which resemble a large nose. They are called \"lappet moths\" due to the decorative skin flaps found on the caterpillar's prolegs. The name \"eggars\" comes from the neat egg-shaped cocoons of some species. The scientific name is from the Greek \"lasio\" (wooly) and \"campa\" (caterpillar).\n\nCaterpillars of this family are large and are most often hairy, especially on their sides. Most have skin flaps on their prolegs and a pair of dorsal glands on their abdomens. They feed on leaves of many different trees and shrubs, and often use these same plants to camouflage their cocoons. Some species are called tent caterpillars due to their habit of living together in nests spun of silk.\n\nAs adults, the moths in this family are large bodied with broad wings and may still have the characteristic elongated mouth parts, or have reduced mouthparts and not feed as adults. They are either diurnal or nocturnal. Females lay a large number of eggs which are flat in appearance and either smooth or slightly pitted. In tent caterpillars, the eggs are deposited in masses and covered with a material that hardens in air. Females are generally larger and slower than the males, but the sexes otherwise resemble each other. Moths are typically brown or grey, with hairy legs and bodies.\n\nSubfamily Chionopsychinae (one genus, two species)\n\nSubfamily Chondrosteginae (two genera)\n\nSubfamily Lasiocampinae (130 genera)\n\nSubfamily Macromphaliinae (15 genera)\n\nSubfamily Poecilocampinae (two genera)\n\nGenera \"incertae sedis\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258287", "title": "James Craig (actor)", "text": "James Craig (actor)\n\nJames Craig (born James Henry Meador, February 4, 1912 – June 27, 1985) was an American actor. He is best known for appearances in films like \"Kitty Foyle\" and \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\", and his stint as a leading man at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer in the 1940s where he appeared in films like \"The Human Comedy\".\n\nHe was born in Nashville, Tennessee and studied at the Rice Institute, planning a career in medicine. After graduation he worked for a time as a professional footballer, and a debt collector. A visit to Hollywood made him decide to become an actor. He returned home and worked in little theatre for a year, then went back to Hollywood. He did a screen test for Paramount who offered him a contract.\n\nHe began appearing in films at Paramount, originally using the name James Mead. He most often was seen in B-movies and serials. His early credits included \"Sophie Lang Goes West\" (1937), \"This Way Please\" (1937), \"Thunder Trail\" (1937), \"Born to the West\" (1937), \"The Buccaneer\" (1938), \"The Big Broadcast of 1938\" (1938), and \"Swing, Teacher, Swing\" (1938). He was in \"Pride of the West\" (1938).\n\nCraig left Hollywood and went to New York. He appeared on Broadway in \"Missouri Legend\" (1938), which re-ignited Hollywood interest in him.\n\nCraig tested for the role of Rhett Butler in \"Gone with the Wind\" and had the lead in \"North of Shanghai\" (1939) for Columbia.\n\nHe was in \"The Lone Wolf's Daughter\" (1939) and the serial \"Flying G-Men\" (1939). He was in \"Blondie Meets the Boss\" (1939), \"Romance of the Redwoods\" (1939), \"Blind Alley\" (1939), \"Outside These Walls\" (1939), and \"Missing Daughters\" (1939). He was in a Buster Keaton short, \"Pest from the West\" (1939), then \"Good Girls Go to Paris\" (1939) and the serial \"Overland with Kit Carson\" (1939). He did a short with Andy Clyde, \"Trouble Finds Andy Clyde\" (1939), then \"Behind Prison Gates\" (1939), \"The Man They Could Not Hang\" (1939), and \"Konga\" (1939).\n\nCraig was in some Charley Chase shorts, \"Skinny the Moocher\" (1939) and \"Static in the Attic\" (1939). After \"A Woman Is the Judge\" (1939) he appeared in the Three Stooges film \"Oily to Bed, Oily to Rise\". Craig followed this with \"Taming of the West\" (1939), \"Scandal Sheet\" (1939), \"Forestalled\" (1939), and \"Cafe Hostess\" (1940).\n\nCraig signed with Universal in November 1939. The studio announced they wanted to build him into a leading man. He had a support role in \"Black Friday\" (1940), then he did \"The House Across the Bay\" (1940) for Walter Wanger.\n\nHe returned to Universal for \"Zanzibar\" (1940) where he had the male lead. He was down the cast list for \"Secret Enemy\" (1940), and the serial \"Winners of the West\" (1940) but had a lead part in \"South to Karanga\" (1940). Craig had smaller parts in \"I'm Nobody's Sweetheart Now\" (1940), \"Seven Sinners\" (1940), and \"Lucky Ralston\" (1940).\n\nCraig's big break happened when RKO bought out his contract with Universal to play one of Ginger Rogers' suitors in \"Kitty Foyle\" (1940). This was a big hit.\n\nRKO gave him the romantic lead in \"Unexpected Uncle\" (1941) and he played a New Hampshire farmer who sells his soul in \"All That Money Can Buy\", also titled \"The Devil and Daniel Webster\" (1941), with Walter Huston and Edward Arnold.\n\nHe appeared with Lucille Ball in an RKO Western, \"Valley of the Sun\" (1942). Edward Small cast him in \"Friendly Enemies\" (1942), supporting Charles Ruggles and Charles Winninger.\n\nLouis B. Mayer, head of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, thought Craig resembled the studio's most popular male star Clark Gable. Mayer signed Craig to a seven-year contract to potentially fill in for Gable when he enlisted in the United States Army Air Forces.\n\nMGM started off Craig as the lead in some B Westerns, \"The Omaha Trail\" (1942) and \"Northwest Rangers\" (1942). The latter was a remake of \"Manhattan Melodrama\" with Craig playing the role played by Gable in the original. Both films lost money.\n\nCraig went back to RKO for \"Seven Miles from Alcatraz\" (1942) then did a naval propaganda short, \"Freedom Comes High\".\n\nMGM launched Craig as a star in \"The Human Comedy\" (1943), which was a massive success. He was Ann Sothern's love interest in \"Swing Shift Maisie\" (1943) and supported Margaret O'Brien in \"Lost Angel\" (1943).\n\nIn 1944, Craig co-starred with William Powell and Hedy Lamarr in \"The Heavenly Body\". That year exhibitors voted him the second most likely to be a \"star of tomorrow\".\n\nCraig supported Ronald Colman in \"Kismet\" (1944), and Lana Turner in \"Marriage Is a Private Affair\" (1944); the latter was a big hit. Craig was given the star role in \"Gentle Annie\" (1945) and \"Dangerous Partners\" (1945); he was reunited with O'Brien in \"Our Vines Have Tender Grapes\" (1945).\n\nCraig starred in \"She Went to the Races\" (1945), and two with Butch Jenkins, \"Boys' Ranch\" (1946) and \"Little Mister Jim\" (1947), which both lost money. Craig replaced Van Johnson in the Dr. Kildare series. The film, \"Dark Delusion\" (1947) lost money.\n\nCraig was loaned out to be in \"The Man from Texas\" (1948). Eagle Lion borrowed him for \"Northwest Stampede\" (1948) then he went back to MGM to play the villain in \"Side Street\" (1949). It flopped as did \"A Lady Without Passport\" (1950), where Craig supported Lamarr and John Hodiak, and \"The Strip\" (1951) with Mickey Rooney.\n\nCraig had the lead in a Western, \"Drums in the Deep South\" (1951) for the King Brothers and RKO. He supported Yvonne De Carlo in \"Hurricane Smith\" (1952). He wrote the script for the Western \"Scorching Fury\" (1952). The \"Los Angeles Times\" noted that Craig's MGM contract \"seems to go on and on... notwithstanding he only seems to appear in the company's films at well-spaced intervals.\"\n\nWalter Wanger gave him the lead in \"Fort Vengeance\" (1953). He supported in \"Code Two\" (1953) for MGM. In 1953 his $2,500 a week contract with MGM ended.\n\nCraig began appearing on TV in \"The Westerner\" for \"Chevron Theatre\" and \"Studio 57\" and \"Wedding March\" for \"Ford Television Theatre\". He did \"Dead Reckoning\" for \"Science Fiction Theatre\" (1955).\n\nCraig returned to features with \"Last of the Desperados\" (1955), where he had the lead, and \"While the City Sleeps\" (1956), which he had a support role. He could be seen in starring roles in B films like \"The Women of Pitcairn Island\" (1956), \"Shoot-Out at Medicine Bend\" (1957) with Randolph Scott, \"The Persuader\" (1957), \"The Cyclops\" (1957) for Bert I. Gordon, \"Naked in the Sun\" (1957), \"Ghost Diver\" (1957), \"Man or Gun\" (1958) and \"Four Fast Guns\" (1960).\n\nHe guest starred on shows like \"The Millionaire\" (1956), \"Broken Arrow\" (1957), \"Have Gun – Will Travel\" (1958), \"Colgate Theatre\" (1958), \"Death Valley Days\" (1960), and \"Tales of Wells Fargo\" (1962).\n\nCraig went to Japan for \"The Revenge of Doctor X\" (1967), also known as \"Venus Flytrap\". He had support roles in \"Hostile Guns\" (1967), \"Fort Utah\" (1967) and \"Arizona Bushwhackers\" (1968) and guest starred in \"Daniel Boone\", \"Custer\", and \"The Virginian\"\n\nCraig could also be seen in \"The Devil's Brigade\" (1968), \"If He Hollers, Let Him Go!\" (1968), \"Bigfoot\" (1970), and \"The Tormentors\" (1971).\n\nBoth his last film and television performance came in 1972: he played Dr. Hainer in the sci-fi movie \"Doomsday Machine\" and John Rodman on \"The ABC Afternoon Playbreak\" episode \"This Child Is Mine\".\n\nCraig was married to Mary June Ray (from 1939 to 1954), Jil Jarmyn (married 1963, divorced 1963), and Sumie Jassi; each union ended in divorce.\n\nCraig's first wife claimed he hit her. In 1963, a judge issued an arrest warrant to Craig for refusing to attend a divorce hearing involving his second wife Jane. He turned himself in and successfully argued his release. Jane alleged he had broken into their home, beaten her and cut up her clothes; she also alleged he had a problem with drinking. In 1967 Jane killed her eleven year old son by a previous marriage, then committed suicide.\n\nCraig had two sons, Robert and James Jr., and a daughter; one of the sons predeceased him.\n\nDuring his 1954 divorce hearing, Craig revealed he made money from a variety of sources in addition to acting, including race horses, a cafe, a chicken ranch and carpentry.\n\nAfter retiring from acting in 1972, Craig became a real estate agent.\n\nCraig died of lung cancer at Western Medical Center in Tustin, California, in 1985. He was 74. He was survived by three children and four grandchildren.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258293", "title": "The Voyage (opera)", "text": "The Voyage (opera)\n\nThe Voyage is an opera in three acts (plus a prologue and an epilogue) by the American composer Philip Glass. The English/Latin/Spanish libretto was written by David Henry Hwang.\n\nThe work was commissioned by the Metropolitan Opera, New York City, and first performed there on October 12, 1992 (that date being the 500th anniversary of Christopher Columbus discovering the Americas). The British premiere was in Leeds, England, performed by The City Of Leeds Youth Opera, with Johnathon Cliff and Mike Williamson as the directors, with Richard Pascoe playing Columbus.\n\nGlass did not want to create a biographical opera about Columbus, especially in a year when there were countless films, documentaries and other events doing the same job. Instead he opted to make his opera a more general study of exploration – of the oceans, of space and time and of the mind. Columbus remains a central character though, appearing in the second act and the epilogue.\n\nWe see a scientist in a wheelchair (reminding us of Professor Stephen Hawking), pondering time and space. He sings that despite man's inadequate mind, body and technology, the will to explore and follow one's vision \"towards holes on the horizon\" has always existed. Meanwhile, the chorus poses eternal questions about time and space repeatedly, growing in volume and intensity.\n\nAbove an ice-age Earth, a spacecraft hurtles through space out of control. Its occupants are frantic; the Commander sings that nothing on the ship works properly, whilst the rest of the crew call out the ship's status and instrument readings. They see that the planet they are passing can support life, and they decide to make for it. As they await the inevitable crash landing, they recall moments from their lives. They survive the crash and decide to split up, each taking with them one of the \"directional crystals\" from the ship. Any two of these crystals will, when brought together, indicate the course back to the crew's home planet. The crew consider their new home and what sort of world they would like to live in; each has their own markedly different ideal world. The Commander leaves the wrecked ship to see what awaits her. Outside, she is met by a group of natives that dance a rite of spring and imagine the Commander to be a fantastic god descended from the sky. They sweep her up and she goes with them, becoming part of their celebration.\n\n\"Spain, 1492\"\n\nColumbus is at the court of Queen Isabella bidding them farewell as he prepares to set sail for the Indies. He is promised untold riches and power on his return. Suddenly this scene fades and we realise that we are aboard Columbus' ship; he has been reminiscing about his departure. It is the 32nd day of the voyage. Doubts are beginning to set in as they sail the endless blue ocean. Isabella appears to him in a vision and reminds him of the faith of Noah and of the Virgin Mary and tells him to hold fast to his faith. She promises him that by seeing the journey through he will further the kingdom of God, as well as gain riches and power. Suddenly the First Mate shouts that he has sighted land.\n\n\"Year 2092\"\n\nIn a space station above the Earth, two astronomers (\"Space Twins\") scan for signs of life in the cosmos. At the same time, on the Earth, two archeologists (the \"Earth Twins\") have discovered two of the Directional Crystals from the ship that crashed thousands of years earlier. As they bring the crystals together, their scanning equipment homes in on the planet from which the space travellers in Act I originated. A mission to travel to the planet is begun and we see a terrific celebration as the ship prepares for launch, with dignitaries, politicians, dancers, musicians and a large crowd of well-wishers. The explorers enter the ship and bid farewell to their loved ones. The ship blasts off and another journey of discovery begins.\n\n\"1506\"\n\nWe see Columbus on his deathbed. Monks chant around him and Isabella appears to accompany the explorer on his final journey into the unknown. (She has already passed on to that realm herself). He accuses her of breaking her promises to him but she claims that he undertook his voyage for pride and vanity, guided by Lucifer. Even so, she offers herself to him but he rejects her, saying that the journey he is about to undergo is far more seductive. Pondering man's eternal quest for knowledge and exploration, he is transported up to the stars.\n\nThe libretto is published as part of \"Trying to Find Chinatown: The Selected Plays\" of David Henry Hwang by Theatre Communications Group.\n\nIn July 2006, a long-awaited complete recording of the opera became available on Glass' Orange Mountain Music label, based on the staging by the Landestheater Linz (Austria) and conducted by Dennis Russell Davies.\n"}
{"id": "2258325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258325", "title": "Terry Gilkyson", "text": "Terry Gilkyson\n\nTerry Gilkyson was an American folk singer, composer, and lyricist.\n\nGilkyson was born in Phoenixville, Pennsylvania, and graduated from St. George's School, Newport in 1935. By his early twenties, he had become a worker on a ranch in Tucson, Arizona, then joined the military during World War II. In 1947, he married Jane Gilkyson and moved to California to pursue a career as a folk singer.\n\nHe wrote and recorded \"The Cry of the Wild Goose\", which became a hit song for Frankie Laine in 1950, as well as the 1953 hit song \"Tell Me a Story\" recorded by Jimmy Boyd and Laine. In 1951 Gilkyson appeared in, as well as wrote continuing songs for, the Cinecolor Western film \"Slaughter Trail\" that, in the manner of \"High Noon\", had ballads throughout the film relating to the plot. He was also featured vocalist on The Weavers No. 1 hit recording of \"On Top Of Old Smokey\", as well as their recording of \"Across The Wide Missouri\". He appeared and sang in the 1956 Western \"Star in the Dust\" with John Agar, Mamie Van Doren, and Richard Boone.\n\nIn 1956, he formed a group called The Easy Riders with Richard Dehr and Frank Miller. The group had a major hit with \"Marianne\", both written and performed by the trio. The record sold in excess of one million copies, earning a gold disc. The three also wrote \"Memories Are Made of This\", which became a popular song in several versions, most particularly the one sung by Dean Martin backed by the Easy Riders. An adaptation of the song became an anthem for refugees from the 1956 Hungarian Revolution.\n\nIn the 1960s, he left the group to work for the Walt Disney Studios, writing music both for movies and the television series \"The Wonderful World of Disney\" especially \"The Scarecrow of Romney Marsh.\" In 1968, he was nominated for an Academy Award for \"The Bare Necessities\" from the 1967 animated film \"The Jungle Book\".\n\nOther songs Gilkyson wrote for Disney films were:\n\n\nHe died in Austin, Texas, while visiting family. His interment was at Morris Cemetery in his hometown of Phoenixville. Guitarist Tony Gilkyson, formerly of the bands Lone Justice and X, and Austin singer-songwriter Eliza Gilkyson are Terry Gilkyson's son and daughter. His other daughter Nancy has served for 20 years as a vice president at Warner Bros. Records.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258330", "title": "WDSU", "text": "WDSU\n\nWDSU, virtual channel 6 (UHF digital channel 19), is an NBC-affiliated television station licensed to New Orleans, Louisiana, United States. The station is owned by the Hearst Television subsidiary of Hearst Communications. WDSU's studios are located on Howard Avenue in the city's Central Business District, and its transmitter is located on East Josephine Street in Chalmette. On cable, the station is available on Cox Communications channel 7 in both standard and high definition (cable channel 6 is occupied by a local access channel).\n\nThe station first signed on the air on December 18, 1948. It was the first television station to sign on in the state of Louisiana, the first in the city of New Orleans, the first on the Gulf Coast, the first in the Deep South, and the 49th in the nation. WDSU-TV was founded by New Orleans businessman Edgar B. Stern, Jr., owner of WDSU radio (1280 AM, now WODT; and 93.3 FM, now WQUE-FM), which he had recently purchased—along with the construction permit to build the television station—for $750,000. The station has been a primary NBC affiliate since it signed on, owing to WDSU radio's longtime affiliation with the NBC Red Network; however, it initially also carried programming from the three other major broadcast networks at the time: CBS, ABC, and the DuMont Television Network. It lost DuMont programming when that network ceased operations in August 1956. Even after WJMR-TV (channel 61, now Fox affiliate WVUE on channel 8) signed on in November 1953 as a primary CBS and secondary ABC affiliate, WDSU continued to \"cherry-pick\" a few of the higher-rated programs carried by those two networks until September 1957, when WWL-TV (channel 4) signed on as a full-time CBS affiliate. At that time, WJMR became a full-time ABC affiliate, leaving WDSU exclusively with NBC.\nThe radio station was originally located at the DeSoto Hotel (now the Le Pavillon Hotel) on Baronne Street; the \"D\" in the name stood for the DeSoto, while \"S\" referred to the now-defunct \"New Orleans States\" newspaper (which had maintained a news share agreement with WDSU radio that lasted for one year; the paper later merged with the \"New Orleans Item-Tribune\" in 1960, which in turn merged with the \"Times-Picayune\" in 1980) and the \"U\" stood for Joseph Uhalt, who founded the radio station as WCBE in 1923. WDSU-TV originally operated out of studio facilities located within the Hibernia Bank Building, the tallest building in New Orleans at the time (a plaque commemorating its distinction as the station's original broadcasting facility is located on the 14th floor of the building). The WDSU stations moved into the historic Brulatour Mansion on Royal Street in the French Quarter in April 1950; Stern had also bought other buildings near the mansion (including a lumber yard and an ice house) to construct production studios for the radio and television stations. At that point, Stern reorganized his business interests as the Royal Street Corporation. The transmitter site remained at the Hibernia Bank Building until 1955, when a new transmitter facility in Chalmette—where the tower remains today—was completed.\n\nIn the 1950s, WDSU-TV became the springboard for the career of Dick Van Dyke, first as a single comedian and later as the emcee of a locally produced comedy program on the station; among his duties, Van Dyke had also served as a staff announcer, hosted music programs and appeared in a segment during the station's noon newscast. WDSU became the first television station in the New Orleans market to telecast its programming in color in 1955. WDSU was the ratings leader in New Orleans for over a quarter century, largely because of its strong commitment to coverage of local events and news. It originated the first live broadcasts of the Sugar Bowl and Mardi Gras, and was the first area station to provide extensive local hurricane coverage. The station was also the first television station in the market to provide statewide election coverage, as well as the first to utilize a mobile newsgathering unit.\n\nWDSU was also the first to originate an international broadcast, relaying a \"Today\" broadcast from Bimini to the United States in 1955, using a 300,000 watt transmitter built by WDSU-TV engineers via special permission granted to NBC by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). \n\nIn January 1972, Royal Street merged with Columbia, South Carolina-based Cosmos Broadcasting in a $17 million deal. Cosmos decided to sell off the radio stations because the ownership of the three station properties combined would exceed ownership limits of the time set by the FCC. Cosmos eliminated much of the local flavor that had been the station's hallmark, opting to concentrate on its already strong news operation (channel 6 had been saluted by \"Time\" as a news pioneer in 1966). By the early 1980s, rival WWL-TV had overtaken WDSU as the top-rated station from sign-on to sign-off as well as in local news. WDSU has been a solid runner-up to WWL for most of the last quarter-century, although since the mid-2000s, it has had to fend off a strong challenge from a resurgent WVUE. In 1984, WDSU built the first working television studio at a World's Fair for the station's live broadcasts from the event held in New Orleans that year. On February 17, 1986, WDSU became the first NBC affiliate in Louisiana to broadcast its programs in stereo.\nCosmos sold WDSU to Pulitzer, Inc. for $47 million in 1989. In March 1996, the station moved into its current facility on Howard Avenue, located a few blocks from the Le Pavillon Hotel, where WDSU radio began operations in 1923. Also during the 1990s, WDSU became the first New Orleans station to operate its own Doppler weather radar system (\"Super Doppler 6000\"). Pulitzer sold its entire television station division, including WDSU, to Hearst-Argyle Television (predecessor to the present-day Hearst Television) in 1999 for $1.8 billion. WDSU celebrated its 60th anniversary of broadcasting on December 18, 2008.\n\nAs of 2012, although the \"channel 6\" red dot logo is part of the station's branding, WDSU simply identifies its branding by its callsign only in verbal usage, with no mention of the 6. In 2015, the NBC Peacock logo was added to the \"channel 6\" red dot logo; due to the network's requirement to the NBC logo included with any affiliate's logo.\n\nPrior to the landfall of Hurricane Katrina, WDSU shut down operations at its studios in New Orleans around 9:30 p.m. on August 28, 2005, in order to allow station staff to take shelter from the oncoming hurricane. At that point, WDSU's broadcasts began to originate from the studios of ABC-affiliated sister station WAPT in Jackson, Mississippi, where some of WDSU's on-air staff had already evacuated. Fellow sister station, NBC affiliate WESH in Orlando, Florida, also originated some on-air weather content during the storm. In the weeks that immediately followed the hurricane, WDSU's news programming originated from the WAPT facility, using meteorologists and anchors from both stations, with programs being simulcast in Jackson and New Orleans.\n\nThe Howard Avenue studio facility largely withstood Hurricane Katrina with minimal damage, but WDSU's analog and digital transmitters were both destroyed in the storm. In early September, WDSU arranged to transmit its signal via i: Independent Television affiliate (now Ion Television owned-and-operated station) WPXL-TV (channel 49) through the end of December 2005; WDSU also partnered with i O&O KPXB-TV in Houston to simulcast WDSU's morning newscast and continuing coverage of the storm's aftermath that channel 6 had aired between 6:00 and 11:00 p.m. from September 7 to September 13, 2005. The station restored its analog signal, operating at reduced power, in October 2005. WDSU chose to replace its existing transmitter building with an elevated and rugged hurricane resistant building to house its analog and digital transmitters; construction of this building was completed in early February 2008. WDSU's digital signal was restored on August 1, 2007, having temporarily shared a frequency with LeSEA Broadcasting-owned WHNO's digital signal on UHF channel 21. In late February 2008, WDSU's analog signal was upgraded to full power and its digital signal on channel 6.1 was restored on March 6, 2008.\n\nIn September 2008, WDSU broadcast continuous coverage of the approach, landfall and aftermath of Hurricane Gustav for five consecutive days. The storm prompted a massive evacuation of much of the station's viewing area. As a result, on September 1, 2008, satellite provider DirecTV began simulcasting WDSU's coverage of Hurricane Gustav nationally on channel 361. Its storm coverage was also streamed on the station's website, while its broadcast audio was carried by the stations within Citadel Broadcasting's New Orleans radio cluster. C-SPAN2 and ABC affiliate WBRZ (channel 2) in Baton Rouge also ran portions of the station's live news coverage of Gustav.\n\nWDSU tapped the resources of parent company Hearst-Argyle Television, and brought in personnel from Hearst-owned television stations across the country to assist in various capacities. Some members of WDSU's news staff were relocated to support studios in Baton Rouge and Orlando, and provided reports via satellite. All three locations stayed operational throughout the storm's duration. Another of WDSU's sister stations, ABC affiliate KOCO-TV in Oklahoma City, also provided WDSU's coverage of Hurricane Gustav via its second digital subchannel for evacuees who came to Oklahoma City.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nSince March 31, 2012, WDSU digital subchannel 6.2 has been affiliated with MeTV; the subchannel originally launched in 2006 as an affiliate of NBC Weather Plus, before affiliating with The Local AccuWeather Channel in 2009, shortly after Weather Plus' shutdown. Channel 6.2 can be seen on Cox Communications digital cable channel 108 in the New Orleans area, on channel 115 for Charter Spectrum customers on the Northshore, and on channel 136 for Spectrum customers on the Southshore.\n\nWDSU shut down its analog signal, over VHF channel 6, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 43. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former VHF analog channel 6. Like all stations broadcasting on channel 6 prior to the digital switchover, WDSU's audio signal could be heard on 87.75 MHz on the FM band in New Orleans and the surrounding areas.\n\nAs part of the SAFER Act, WDSU kept its analog signal on the air until July 12 to inform viewers of the digital television transition through a loop of public service announcements from the National Association of Broadcasters.\n\nIn October 2006, a dispute between WDSU's owner, Hearst-Argyle Television, and Cox Communications caused WDSU's high definition feed to be pulled from Cox's New Orleans area system. As a result, no HD program content was available from WDSU via any medium (over the air, cable, or satellite), forcing New Orleans viewers looking for high-definition NBC programming to attempt to receive a signal from Baton Rouge affiliate WVLA-TV. In April 2007, WDSU-DT was added to DirecTV's lineup, after which local cable providers gradually began to add the feed as well. On September 27, 2007, Cox Communications and Hearst-Argyle announced an agreement to restore WDSU-DT to Cox's New Orleans area cable systems; WDSU-DT and WDSU's WeatherPlus channel were added to Cox's channel lineup the next day.\n\nToday, WDSU clears the entire NBC programming lineup, only preempting certain programs during instances in which the station has to carry extended breaking news or severe weather coverage. Syndicated programs currently broadcast by WDSU include \"The Real\", \"The Kelly Clarkson Show\", \"Tamron Hall\", \"The Ellen DeGeneres Show\" and \"Entertainment Tonight\" among others. \n\nAmong the station's notable local programs over the years included \"Midday\", one of the earliest magazine programs in the United States, hosted by Terry Flettrich (later Rohe, who eventually served as senior citizens affairs correspondent for \"Good Morning America\"); the \"3:00 Money Movie\", a Saturday afternoon movie showcase with irreverent wraparound segments hosted by Sam Adams, who regularly performed parody songs on a piano serving as clues to the answers during phone-in contests for cash prizes; and \"Morgus the Magnificent\", a program hosted by a mad doctor character played by Sid Noel.\n\nIn the early 1980s, the station sustained criticism among its viewers when it chose to pre-empt \"Late Night with David Letterman\" in favor of airing the syndicated late night talk show \"Thicke of the Night\", which was a notorious flop; around this time, the station also carried feature films during the overnight hours instead of airing the short-lived news program \"NBC News Overnight\". When WDSU began clearing \"Late Night\", the station aired the show an hour later than the recommended 11:35 p.m. timeslot for the network's Central Time Zone stations, instead airing syndicated reruns of \"The Love Boat\". \n\nWDSU serves as the local over-the-air broadcaster of \"Monday Night Football\" games involving the New Orleans Saints, airing simulcasts of ESPN-televised games. WDSU's corporate parent, Hearst Communications, holds a 20% ownership stake in ESPN (the network's remaining ownership interest is held by The Walt Disney Company), and the company has right of first refusal for simulcasts of ESPN's NFL telecasts in a team's home market, which it has never declined for WDSU (in these situations, the station reschedules NBC's Monday lineup). The station also provides additional game analysis from former Saints coach Jim E. Mora. Prior to 2006, when NBC gained the rights to Sunday night games, WDSU also aired Saints games from 1970 to 1997 whenever the team played host to an AFC team at Tulane Stadium/the Superdome, via NBC's contract to broadcast AFC games in those years. The station also provided local coverage of Super Bowl IX, which was hosted at Tulane Stadium, and Super Bowls XV and Super Bowl XX, both of which were hosted at the Superdome.\n\nThe station was unusual in airing \"Maury\" from its September 1991 premiere, carrying the show for 27 years until September 2018, despite the program taking a tabloid/conflict focus in the late 1990s and becoming universally associated with affiliates of smaller networks such as The WB, UPN and The CW. WDSU ended carriage of the show upon the launch of a noon newscast, effectively leaving the program off the station schedule, though it quickly found a new home in the market on WNOL-TV.\n\nWDSU presently broadcasts 38 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with six hours each weekday, 3½ hours on Saturdays and 4½ hours on Sundays). The station also maintains a content partnership with Cumulus Media's New Orleans FM radio cluster (KKND [106.7], KMEZ [102.9], WZRH [92.3] and WRKN [106.1]), which also allows the station to simulcast its broadcast audio during hurricane coverage.\n\nFrom the start of its news operation, WDSU's newscasts were the highest-rated in the New Orleans market for many years. For much of the time since the early 1980s, WDSU's newscasts have been in second place among the market's news-producing stations. By the mid-2000s, WVUE overtook WDSU for second place among the market's 5:00 p.m. newscasts; the two stations traded second at 5:00 p.m. until WDSU overtook WVUE in May 2011. In July 2011, WDSU claimed ratings wins in key demographics at 5:00 and 6:00 p.m.—marking the first time in a quarter-century that a station other than WWL-TV had placed first among viewers most sought by advertisers. Newscasts in less competitive time periods of 4:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. also scored wins in key demographic categories, as well as in household ratings.\n\nAmong WDSU's first staffers was meteorologist Nash Roberts, one of the first television weather forecasters in the United States, who drew predicted weather conditions by marker on wall maps (Roberts left the station in 1973 to become meteorologist at WVUE-TV); and Mel Leavitt, who served as the station's original sports director and later as its special events director. The station's news department began in 1955, under the guidance of original news director Bill Monroe (who later joined NBC News, first serving as Washington-based news editor for \"Today\" and later as moderator of \"Meet the Press\"); Monroe also provided editorials on the station, becoming one of the first stations in the country to provide such segments for television. During the 1950s and 1960s, the station carried editorial cartoons (similar to those commonly found in many newspapers) drawn by cartoonist John Churchill Chase; the twice-daily segments featured his take on major local, national and international news stories with commentary over the illustrated pieces (Chase, who died in 1986, has a street in the Warehouse District named in his honor). Many of the station's reporters in the early years of its news department included staffers from the \"Times-Picayune\" newspaper (including Iris Kelso, who worked at WDSU from 1967 to 1978, before returning to the \"Times-Picayune\").\n\nOn November 11, 2006, after a remarkable 51 years in New Orleans broadcast television—nearly all of them with WDSU—anchor and former news director Alec Gifford (who died in March 2013) officially announced his retirement from broadcasting. Gifford left the station in December 2006. On December 14, 2008, WDSU entered into a content partnership with Biloxi newspaper \"Sun Herald\", to provide supplementary news and weather coverage focused on South Mississippi. WDSU discontinued its noon newscast on September 11, 2009; three days later on September 14, the station launched an hour-long 4:00 p.m. newscast; this program gained a competitor on September 12, 2011, when Fox affiliate WVUE debuted its own hour-long newscast in the 4:00 p.m. timeslot.\n\nOn July 10, 2010, WDSU began broadcasting its local newscasts in widescreen standard definition, along with the introduction of updated graphics. WDSU is one of now two stations in the New Orleans market that have yet to upgrade production of their local news programming to high definition. WGNO began broadcasting high-definition local news in mid-2011 when it installed a new HDTV control room and studio cameras. WVUE was the first only station in the market that broadcasts its local newscasts in true high definition, having upgraded to HD in April 2007. WWL-TV made the switch to full HD on October 1, 2014. On August 16, 2010, WDSU expanded its weekday morning newscast to 2½ hours, by adding a 4:30 a.m. newscast entitled \"WDSU News First Edition\". On September 3, 2018, WDSU relaunched an hour-long midday newscast, ending a nine-year absence.\n\nAs of August 1, 2019, WDSU is now one of three remaining Hearst Television stations to have yet to upgrade production of their local newscasts to HD (Albuquerque ABC affiliate KOAT and Louisville CBS affiliate WLKY are the others). \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258344", "title": "Flor Peeters", "text": "Flor Peeters\n\nFlor Peeters (Baron Peeters) (born 4 July 1903, died 4 July 1986) was a Belgian composer, organist and academic teacher. He was director of the Convervatorium in Antwerp, Belgium, and organist at Mechelen Cathedral from 1923 to his death in 1986.\n\nBorn and raised in the village of Tielen (in the Kempen region, just on the Belgian side of the Belgian-Dutch border), Peeters was the youngest child in a family of eleven. When sixteen years old, he began his studies at the Lemmens Institute in Mechelen (since moved to Leuven), which was named after the nineteenth-century organist Jacques-Nicolas Lemmens. At this college, Peeters's teachers were Lodewijk Mortelmans, Jules Van Nuffel and Oscar Depuydt. Depuydt was well known at the time for his collaboration with the Desmet brothers on the first set of Gregorian accompaniments produced by the Lemmens Institute.\n\nPeeters would later collaborate with Van Nuffel and the institute's other professors, to produce the \"Nova Organi Harmonia\". In 1923 he became an organ teacher at the institute; simultaneously he acquired the position of chief organist at the St. Rumbold's Cathedral in Mechelen, which he held for most of the rest of his life; Van Nuffel had already been choirmaster there for many years.\nAs an organist and pedagogue, Peeters enjoyed great renown, giving concerts and liturgical masterclasses all over the world. He also made recordings of sixteenth-, seventeenth- and eighteenth-century organ music; some of these have been reissued in recent years on compact disc. Most of his own pieces (he wrote well over 100) were for his own instrument, for choir, or for both. Among his many compositions is the well-known \"Entrata Festiva\" (opus 93) for choir, brass, timpani, and organ. Other works include \"Aria\" (opus 51) and \"Toccata, fugue and hymn on \"Ave Maris Stella\"\" (opus 28), \n\nPeeters studied Renaissance music, particularly of the school of Flemish polyphony. This style was also absorbed into his music. In addition, he showed an interest in twentieth-century techniques such as polyrhythms and polytonality.\n\nHe died in Mechelen on his eighty-third birthday; fifteen years before, he had been made a baron by King Baudouin of Belgium.\n\nPupils of Peeters include the American organist and composer Kathleen Thomerson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258352", "title": "Kimchaek", "text": "Kimchaek\n\nKimch'aek (), formerly Sŏngjin (Chosŏn'gŭl: 성진, Hancha: 城津), is a city in North Hamgyong Province, North Korea. It was an open port in 1899. It has a population of 207,699. \n\nThe city received its current name in 1951 during the Korean War, in honor of the Korean People's Army (KPA) general, Kim Chaek. It was known as \"Shirotsu\" during Japanese rule between 1910 and 1945.\n\nKimchaek has a hot-summer humid continental climate (Köppen climate classification: \"Dfb\").\n\nKimch'aek-si is divided into 22 \"tong\" (neighbourhoods) and 22 \"ri\" (villages):\n\nKimchaek is an important port on the Sea of Japan (East Sea of Korea), and is home to an ironworks and the Kimch’aek Polytechnic Institute.\n\nKimchaek is on the Pyongra Line railway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258356", "title": "Chacchoben", "text": "Chacchoben\n\nChacchoben (chak-CHO-ben; Maya for \"the place of red corn\") is a Mayan ruin approximately 110 mi (177 km) south of Tulum and 7 mi (11 km) from the village from which it derives its name.\n\nSettlement by the Maya at the site is estimated at 200 BC, and the structures date from 700 AD. It is characterised by large temples and massive platform groups.\n\nIn the 1940s a farm was established near the site by the Cohuo family. The site was reported visited by archeologist Loring Hewen and briefly described in a letter to ethnohistorian Ralph Roys in 1962. The principal pyramid was apparently then still used as a site for religious worship. The ruins were officially reported to the Mexican government in June 1972 by Dr. Peter Harrison, an American archaeologist who was working on a project for The Royal Ontario Museum, and who also made the first maps of Chacchoben. Harrison stumbled upon this site while flying a helicopter over Mexico and noticed numerous hills in predominately flat lands. Harrison realized there were temples beneath these hills, which were naturally covered over a period of 2000 years.\n\nIn 1994 the Mexican National Institute of Anthropology and History (INAH) excavated and restored the site, which was closed to the public until 2002. Today one temple is still overgrown with nature, and they were unable to restore it.\n\nVisitors to the site today walk a circular path that includes three excavated and restored pyramids, as well as many walls and staircases. Excavation is continuing on several mounds which are known to contain further buildings. Some structures still bear traces of the red paint with which they were originally coated, and INAH has set up shaded areas to prevent further degradation of this pigment by the sun. Also notable at the base of the largest pyramid is a large stone slab called a stela with a Mayan hieroglyphic inscription. Chacchoben is one of the more popular ruin sites in southern Quintana Roo, with regular tourist trips from the port of Costa Maya.\n\nThe surrounding jungle is characterized by abundant species of fauna such as, deer, peccary, armadillo, gray fox, spider monkey and howler monkey. Deeper into the jungle, more dangerous animals like jaguar, ocelot, puma and tapir can be found.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258359", "title": "Supreme Administrative Court of Poland", "text": "Supreme Administrative Court of Poland\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court of the Republic of Poland () is the court of last resort in administrative cases e.g. those betweens private citizens (or corporations) and administrative bodies. This court deals with appeals from lower administrative courts called Voivodship Administrative Courts.\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court is located in Warsaw. It consists of The President of Supreme Administrative Court, Vice Presidents and judges.\n\nThe Supreme Administrative Court is divided into three chambers: Commercial Chamber, Financial Chamber and General Administrative Chamber.\n\nThe Commercial Chamber supervises the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts as far as customs, and most business regulation is concerned. The Financial Chamber supervises the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts when it comes to fiscal obligations and other payments regulated by tax law. The General Administrative Chamber supervises the rest of the jurisdiction of regional administrative courts.\n\nWithin its organization there are three organs: The President of The Supreme Administrative Court, The General Assembly of Judges and The Council of Judges.\n\nThe President of the Supreme Administrative Court manages the functioning of The Supreme Administrative Court and represents it on the outside. He has the right to look into all cases pleaded in The Supreme Administrative Court. He may require not only explanations but also removing faults in a procedure and may also be present during a closed session.\nThe President of Supreme Administrative Court is nominated for 6 years by the Polish President as one of two candidates designated by The General Assembly of Judges. These two candidates are chosen from all the judges of Supreme Administrative Court.\n\nThe Vice-presidents of Supreme Administrative Court take up their activities commissioned by The President. Being designated by The President, they direct the work within each Chamber. They are nominated and dismissed by the President of Poland.\n\nThe General Assembly of Judges consists of judges nominated to the Supreme Administrative Court. At the top of hierarchy there is The President of the Supreme Administrative Court. To their duties belong:\n\nAn absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the members is needed in order to pass the resolution.\n\nThe Council of Judges sets a division of activities within the Supreme Administrative Court and distributes coming cases to the judges. It gives an opinion concerning candidates for judges to The General Assembly. The term of this organ lasts three years. The chairman of The Council is The President of the Supreme Administrative Court. Again, an absolute majority in the presence of at least half of the members is needed here to pass a resolution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258362", "title": "Missouri Route 52", "text": "Missouri Route 52\n\nRoute 52 is an east/west highway running from its eastern terminus at Route 133 east of St. Elizabeth to the Kansas state line where it continues as K-52 (this road continues for 23 additional miles). Highway 52 comprises of primarily two-lane roadway in Missouri. \n\nRoute 52 was formerly Route 24 between Eldon and the Kansas state line. The numbering change was to avoid duplication with the new U.S. Route 24 which came through Missouri in 1926.\n"}
{"id": "2258363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258363", "title": "Karl Ludwig Fridolin von Sandberger", "text": "Karl Ludwig Fridolin von Sandberger\n\nKarl Ludwig Fridolin von Sandberger (22 November 1826 – 12 April 1898), German palaeontologist and geologist, was born at Dillenburg, Nassau, on 22 November 1826. He was educated at the universities of Bonn, Heidelberg and Giessen, at the last of which he graduated Ph.D. in 1846. He then studied at the University of Marburg, where he wrote his first essay, \"Übersicht der geologischen Verhältnisse des Herzogtums Nassau\" (1847).\n\nIn 1849 he became curator of the Natural History Museum at Wiesbaden, and began to study the Tertiary strata of the Mayence Basin, and also the Devonian fossils of the Rhenish provinces, on which he published elaborate memoirs. In 1855 he was appointed professor of mineralogy and geology at the Polytechnic Institute at Karlsruhe, and he took part in the geological survey of Baden. From 1863 to 1896 he was professor of mineralogy and geology at the University of Würzburg. His great work \"Die Land- und Süsswasser-Conchylien der Vorwelt\" was published in 1870-1875. Later he issued an authoritative 2-volume work on mineral veins, \"Untersuchungen über Erzgänge\" (1882–1885). He died at Würzburg on 11 April 1898. His brother Guido Sandberger (1821–1869) was an authority on fossil cephalopoda, and together they published \"Die Versteinerungen des rheinischen Schichtensystems in Nassau\" (1850–1856). Adolf Sandberger, Fridolin's son, was a noted German musicologist and composer.\n\nFridolin Sandberger is credited with the first valid description of \"Laxitextella laxitexta\", which is an extinct clam shrimp species named by him \"Estheria laxitexta\".\n"}
{"id": "2258371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258371", "title": "Suspended Animation (John Petrucci album)", "text": "Suspended Animation (John Petrucci album)\n\nSuspended Animation is a studio album by Dream Theater guitarist John Petrucci, released independently in 2005 through Sound Mind Music. The songs \"Jaws of Life\", \"Glasgow Kiss\" and \"Damage Control\" have been played during the G3 tour, and the latter two are featured as openers to the 2005 DVD and live album \"\". Some releases of the album have \"Curve\" split into two separate tracks, with the majority of the song on track six and the latter portion on track seven. On these editions, \"Lost Without You\" and \"Animate-Inanimate\" form tracks eight and nine respectively. The correct track listing, without the aforementioned anomalies, is shown below.\n\nMark Sabbatini at All About Jazz gave \"Suspended Animation\" a mixed review, initially criticizing some songs as sounding like \"what feels like a market-driven formula for success.\" He nonetheless noted \"Animate-Inanimate\" as a highlight, while praising Petrucci's guitar tone, which he described as \"clear and distinct even during moments of high-speed indulgence\" and setting him apart from his contemporaries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258378", "title": "Houseboat (film)", "text": "Houseboat (film)\n\nHouseboat is a 1958 American Technicolor romantic comedy VistaVision film starring Cary Grant, Sophia Loren, Martha Hyer, and Harry Guardino. The movie was directed by Melville Shavelson, who also directed the original version of \"Yours, Mine and Ours\" (1968). Both the love theme \"Almost In Your Arms\", sung by Sam Cooke and \"Bing! Bang! Bong!\", sung by Sophia Loren, were written by Jay Livingston and Ray Evans.\n\nFor over three years, Tom Winters (Cary Grant) has been separated from his wife and their three children: David (Petersen), Elizabeth (Gibson), and Robert (Herbert). The film begins as he returns home from Europe following his wife's death. The children want to stay in the country with their mother's wealthy parents and her sister Carolyn (Hyer), but Tom takes them to Washington, D.C., where he works in the US State Department.\n\nThe children resent their father, who spends the days giving them historical tours of the Washington sites. One evening, Winters takes the children to a classical outdoor concert, which clearly bores the children. We see Cinzia for the first time watching the orchestra from the side wing. Cinzia then argues with her father backstage before escaping through a window onto the lake behind. She takes a rowing boat where Robert suddenly materialises, having also run away. They go to a funfair on the other side of the lake. Robert has money for pizza but Conzia does not, she cheats him out of a slice by \"showing him how to eat it correctly\" She then compensates for this by winning him a harmonica on one of the side shows. She is enchanted by little \"Roberto\" and his harmonica. When she brings him back home, Tom offers her a job as a maid, unaware she is the daughter of a famous Italian orchestra conductor. Due to her love for the children she accepts.\n\nCarolyn offers Tom and the children her old guest house. This is to be moved on a trailer to a new location. However, while the guest house is being towed down the road, it hits Tom's car, just as it straddles a railtrack. No-one listens to the children pointing out the bigger problem and the guest house is struck by a train. The tow-truck driver, Angelo Donatello (Guardino), feels guilty, and sells Tom his leaky, run-down, old houseboat.\n\nOnce moved in, Tom discovers that Cinzia is unable to cook, do laundry, or even make coffee. Carolyn and others incorrectly assume that Cinzia's relationship with Tom is sexual, while Cinzia innocently wins the affection of Tom and the children. Meanwhile, Tom spends his evenings with Carolyn (who has left her husband), who is secretly in love with him. On the 4th of July, she tries to embarrass Cinzia by selecting a gaudy dress for Tom to buy for her, but Cinzia transforms it into an elegant evening gown. She looks so beautiful in the gown that Angelo, a confirmed womanizer, cancels a date with her, in fear of falling in love and proposing to her.\n\nThat evening, Carolyn arrives at the boat with Captain Alan Wilson (Murray Hamilton) and his wife. Alan, who is somewhat drunk, jokes about Cinzia's living arrangement with Tom and slaps her on the behind as she serves drinks. She calls him an ill-mannered lout and throws a drink in his face before going to her room to cry. Tom asks Alan to leave the boat, but Carolyn takes Alan's side, following which Tom asks all three guests to leave. David cheers Cinzia up, and they make plans to go fishing, but Tom ruins David's plans by inviting Cinzia to the country club dance. Once there, Tom reconciles with Carolyn, and they agree to get married. As he dances with Cinzia, he finally realizes he is in love with her, but she learns of the proposal, becomes upset, and runs away. Tom catches her and breaks it off with Carolyn. A little while later, David unhappily finds Tom and Cinzia passionately kissing in a rowboat. The movement of the rowboat rings a bell in David's room and he covers his ears.\n\nThe children do not want Tom to marry Cinzia. David calls her ugly, Robert rejects her as a mother figure, and Elizabeth wants to continue sleeping in Tom's bed with him. Discouraged by this, Cinzia returns to her father, Maestro Zaccardi, but Tom follows her and she accepts Tom's wedding proposal. \n\nThe wedding takes place on the houseboat. Carolyn serves as maid of honour. The children initially refuse to participate in the ceremony, but as it begins, Elizabeth and David join Tom and Cinzia at the altar, and Robert joins them, playing \"Here Comes the Bride\" on his harmonica.\n\nGrant's wife Betsy Drake wrote the original script, and Grant originally intended that she would star with him. After he began an affair with Loren while filming \"The Pride and the Passion\" (1957), Grant arranged for Loren to take Drake's place with a rewritten script for which Drake did not receive credit. The affair ended in bitterness before \"The Pride and the Passion\"s filming ended, causing problems on the \"Houseboat\" set. Grant hoped to resume the relationship, but Loren agreed to marry Carlo Ponti instead.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258380", "title": "Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model", "text": "Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model\n\nIn quantum field theory, the Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model (or more precisely: \"the Nambu and Jona-Lasinio model\") is a complicated effective theory of nucleons and mesons constructed from interacting Dirac fermions with chiral symmetry, paralleling the construction of Cooper pairs from electrons in the BCS theory of superconductivity. The \"complicatedness\" of the theory has become more natural as it is now seen as a low-energy approximation of the still more basic theory of quantum chromodynamics, which does not work perturbatively at low energies.\n\nThe model is much inspired by the different field of solid state theory, particularly from the BCS breakthrough of 1957. The first inventor of the Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model, Yoichiro Nambu, also contributed essentially to the theory of superconductivity, i.e., by the \"Nambu formalism\". The second inventor was Giovanni Jona-Lasinio. The common paper of the authors that introduced the model appeared in 1961. A subsequent paper included chiral symmetry breaking, isospin and strangeness.\nAt the same time, the same model was independently considered by Soviet physicists Valentin Vaks and Anatoly Larkin.\n\nThe model is quite technical, although based essentially on symmetry principles. It is an example of the importance of four-fermion interactions and is defined in a spacetime with an even number of dimensions. It is still important and is used primarily as an effective although not rigorous low energy substitute for quantum chromodynamics.\n\nThe dynamical creation of a condensate from fermion interactions inspired many theories of the breaking of electroweak symmetry, such as technicolor and the top-quark condensate.\n\nStarting with the one-flavor case first, the Lagrangian density is\n\nThe terms proportional to \"λ\" are the four-fermion interactions, which parallel the BCS theory.\nThe global symmetry of the model is U(1)×U(1) where Q is the ordinary charge of the Dirac fermion and χ is the chiral charge.\n\nThere is no bare mass term because of the chiral symmetry. However, there will be a chiral condensate (but no confinement) leading to an effective mass term and a spontaneous symmetry breaking of the chiral symmetry, but not the charge symmetry.\n\nWith \"N\" flavors and the flavor indices represented by the Latin letters \"a\", \"b\", \"c\", the Lagrangian density becomes\n\nChiral symmetry forbids a bare mass term, but there may be chiral condensates. The global symmetry here is SU(\"N\")×SU(\"N\")× U(1) × U(1) where SU(\"N\")×SU(\"N\") acting upon the left-handed flavors and right-handed flavors respectively is the chiral symmetry (in other words, there is no natural correspondence between the left-handed and the right-handed flavors), U(1) is the Dirac charge, which is sometimes called the baryon number and U(1) is the axial charge. If a chiral condensate forms, then the chiral symmetry is spontaneously broken into a diagonal subgroup SU(\"N\") since the condensate leads to a pairing of the left-handed and the right-handed flavors. The axial charge is also spontaneously broken.\n\nThe broken symmetries lead to massless pseudoscalar bosons which are sometimes called pions. See Goldstone boson.\n\nAs mentioned, this model is sometimes used as a phenomenological model of quantum chromodynamics in the chiral limit. However, while it is able to model chiral symmetry breaking and chiral condensates, it does not model confinement. Also, the axial symmetry is broken spontaneously in this model, leading to a massless Goldstone boson unlike QCD, where it is broken anomalously.\n\nSince the Nambu–Jona-Lasinio model is nonrenormalizable in four spacetime dimensions, this theory can only be an effective field theory which needs to be UV completed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258390", "title": "Revolutions of 1830", "text": "Revolutions of 1830\n\nThe Revolutions of 1830 were a revolutionary wave in Europe which took place in 1830. It included two \"romantic nationalist\" revolutions, the Belgian Revolution in the United Kingdom of the Netherlands and the July Revolution in France along with revolutions in Congress Poland, Italian states, Portugal and Switzerland. It was followed eighteen years later, by another and possibly even stronger wave of revolutions known as the Revolutions of 1848.\n\nThe romantic nationalist revolutions of 1830, both of which occurred in Western Europe, led to the establishment of similar constitutional monarchies, called popular monarchies. Louis-Philippe I became \"King of the French\" on 31 July 1830, and Leopold I became \"King of the Belgians\", on 21 July 1831.\n\nIn France, the July Revolution led to the overthrow of the Bourbon King, Charles X, who had been reinstated after the fall of the French Empire of Napoleon Bonaparte. In his place, Charles' cousin Louis-Philippe, Duke of Orléans was crowned as the first \"King of the French\". It marked the shift from one constitutional monarchy, the Bourbon Restoration, to another, the July Monarchy; the transition of power from the House of Bourbon to its cadet branch, the House of Orléans; and the substitution of the principle of popular sovereignty for hereditary right. Supporters of the Bourbons would be called Legitimists, and supporters of Louis Philippe Orléanists.\n\nThe French July Monarchy would last until the revolution of 1848.\n\nThe Belgian Revolution broke out on 25 August 1830. The short-term influence was the outbreak of the French July Revolution one month earlier: Belgium had been attached to the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815, and a Belgian Patriot movement had emerged, campaigning for a written constitution that would limit the powers of the Dutch absolute monarchy and enshrine fundamental civil rights; the French July Revolt appeared to them to be an equivalent struggle to their own. Within this context, the staging of a nationalistic opera (\"La muette de Portici\") in Brussels led to a minor insurrection among the capital's bourgeoisie, who sang patriotic songs and captured some public buildings in the city. This early revolutionary group was swelled by a large number of urban workers. The following day, the revolutionaries began flying their own flag, clearly influenced by that of the Brabant Revolution of 1789. To maintain order, several bourgeois militia groups were formed. The situation in Brussels led to widespread unrest across the country. King William I rejected his son's advice to negotiate with the rebels, forcing them towards a more radical, pro-independence stance, and sent a large military force to Brussels to suppress the insurrection.\n\nBetween 23 and 28 September 1830, heavy fighting took place between Dutch forces and Brussels revolutionaries, who were reinforced by small contingents from across the country. The Dutch were eventually forced to retreat. In the aftermath of the failed attack and concurrent mass desertions of Belgian soldiers from the Dutch army, the revolution spread around Belgium. Dutch garrisons were pushed out of the area, until only Antwerp and Luxembourg remained occupied. The Provisional Government of Belgium, led by Charles Rogier, was formed on 24 September and Belgian independence was officially proclaimed on 4 October while work began on creating a constitution. In December, international governments at the Conference of London recognized the independence of Belgium and guaranteed its neutrality. The Dutch, however, only recognized Belgium's independence and the terms of the Conference in 1839. The Constitution, finally adopted in 1831, protected individual freedoms and was considered as a template for future liberal constitutionalists around the world. It also created a popular monarchy (\"King of the Belgians\", rather than \"King of Belgium\") to ward off fears of mob rule associated with republicanism in the aftermath of the French Revolution of 1789. The first King of the Belgians, Leopold I, was crowned in July 1831.\n\nThe outbreak of the revolutions in Europe provided the opportunity for Brazilian liberals to expel Emperor Pedro I from the country, where he had played an authoritarian role since the struggle for independence. Given his commitment to Portuguese liberals, he took their side in the Portuguese Civil War.\n\nSimultaneously in Congress Poland, the unsuccessful November Uprising against the Czar of Russia occurred. The uprising began on 29 November 1830 in Warsaw when the young Polish officers from the local Army of the Congress Poland's military academy revolted, led by lieutenant Piotr Wysocki. They were soon joined by large segments of Polish society, and the insurrection spread to the territories of Lithuania, western Belarus, and the right-bank of Ukraine.\n\nDespite some local successes, the uprising was eventually crushed by a numerically superior Imperial Russian Army under Ivan Paskevich. Czar Nicholas I decreed that henceforth Poland was an integral part of Russia, with Warsaw little more than a military garrison, and its university was closed.\n\nIn Switzerland, the rural population was poor and uneducated while politically and economically under the control of the nearby cities. During the French controlled Helvetic Republic in 1798 the ideas of freedom and equality spread. The medieval idea of different laws for city citizens and countryside peasants was overthrown. However, in 1803 the Helvetic Republic collapsed and was replaced by the Act of Mediation which struck a compromise between the \"Ancien Regime\" and a Republic. In the following years, even the limited freedoms under the Act were undermined and following Napoleon's defeat in 1813 the Act was overturned. In the Restoration, which started in 1814, the new constitution reduced the representation of rural areas in the cantonal councils.\n\nFollowing the French July Revolution in 1830, a number of large assemblies were held calling for new cantonal constitutions. As each canton had its own constitution, the assemblies in each canton addressed different specifics, but they all had two main issues. First, they called for peacefully adjusting the constitutions by adjusting the way seats in local legislatures and the Tagsatzung were allocated. In particular they objected to what they saw as the over-representation of the cantonal capital in the government. Secondly, they sought a way to amend the constitution. Very few cantons even had a way to amend or modify the constitutions, and none of them allowed citizen's initiatives to be added.\n\nThe first assembly was held near Weinfelden in Thurgau in October and November 1830. Followed in November by meetings in Wohlenschwil, Aargau then Sursee, Lucerne and finally the Ustertag near Uster in Zurich. In December there were three assemblies in the Canton of St. Gallen in Wattwil, Altstätten and St. Gallenkappel as well as in Balsthal in Solothurn. The final assembly was held in Münsingen in Bern in January 1831.\n\nThe speeches and articles reporting on the assemblies were widely distributed and became very popular. The crowds were generally well behaved and orderly. For example, in Wohlenschwil it was reported that they met \"in unexpectedly quiet attitude with decency and perfect order\". Even in Aargau and St. Gallen, where the crowd marched through the streets of Aarau (known as the \"Freiämtersturm\") and St. Gallen, the protest march was peaceful. Following the assemblies and marches, cantonal governments quickly gave into the demands of the assemblies and amended their constitutions.\n\nBy 1830, revolutionary sentiment in favour of a unified Italy began to experience a resurgence, and a series of insurrections laid the groundwork for the creation of one nation along the Italian peninsula.\n\nThe Duke of Modena, Francis IV, was an ambitious noble, and he hoped to become king of Northern Italy by increasing his territory. In 1826, Francis made it clear that he would not act against those who subverted opposition toward the unification of Italy. Encouraged by the declaration, revolutionaries in the region began to organize.\nNew French king Louis-Philippe had promised revolutionaries such as Ciro Menotti that he would intervene if Austria tried to interfere in Italy with troops. Fearing he would lose his throne, Louis-Philippe did not, however, intervene in Menotti's planned uprising. The Duke of Modena abandoned his \"Carbonari\" supporters, arrested Menotti and other conspirators in 1831, and once again conquered his duchy with help from the Austrian troops. Menotti was executed, and the idea of a revolution centered in Modena faded.\n\nAt the same time, other insurrections arose in the Papal Legations of Bologna, Ferrara, Ravenna, Forlì, Ancona and Perugia. These successful revolutions, which adopted the \"tricolore\" in favour of the Papal flag, quickly spread to cover all the Papal Legations, and their newly installed local governments proclaimed the creation of a united Italian nation. The revolts in Modena and the Papal Legations inspired similar activity in the Duchy of Parma, where the \"tricolore\" flag was adopted. The Parmese duchess Marie Louise left the city during the political upheaval.\n\nThe rebellious provinces planned to unite as the \"Province Italiane Unite\" (United Italian Provinces), which prompted Pope Gregory XVI to ask for Austrian help against the rebels. Metternich warned Louis-Philippe that Austria had no intention of letting Italian matters be, and that French intervention would not be tolerated. Louis-Philippe withheld any military help and even arrested Italian patriots living in France.\n\nIn the spring of 1831, the Austrian army began its march across the Italian peninsula, slowly crushing resistance in each province that had revolted. This military action suppressed much of the fledgling revolutionary movement, and resulted in the arrest of many radical leaders.\n"}
{"id": "2258395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258395", "title": "Dimethylacetamide", "text": "Dimethylacetamide\n\nDimethylacetamide (DMAc or DMA) is the organic compound with the formula CHC(O)N(CH). This colorless, water-miscible, high-boiling liquid is commonly used as a polar solvent in organic synthesis. DMA is miscible with most other solvents, although it is poorly soluble in aliphatic hydrocarbons.\n\nDMA is prepared commercially by the reaction of dimethylamine with acetic anhydride or acetic acid. Dehydration of the salt of dimethylamine and acetic acid also furnishes this compound:\n\nDimethylacetamide can also be produced by the reaction of dimethylamine with methyl acetate.\nThe separation and purification of the product is carried out by multistage distillation in rectification columns. DMA is obtained with 99% yield referred to methyl acetate.\n\nThe chemical reactions of dimethylacetamide are typical of \"N\",\"N\"-disubstituted amides. Hydrolysis of the acyl-N bond occurs in the presence of acids:\nHowever, it is resistant to bases. For this reason DMA is useful solvent for reactions involving strong bases such as sodium hydroxide.\n\nDimethylacetamide is commonly used as a solvent for fibers (e.g., polyacrylonitrile, spandex) or in the adhesive industry. It is also employed in the production of pharmaceuticals and plasticizers as a reaction medium. \n\nA solution of lithium chloride in DMAc (LiCl/DMAc) can dissolve cellulose. Unlike many other cellulose solvents, LiCl/DMAc gives a molecular dispersion, i.e. a \"true solution\". For this reason, it is used in gel permeation chromatography to determine the molar mass distribution of cellulose samples.\n\nDimethylacetamide is also used as an excipient in drugs, e.g. in Vumon (teniposide), Busulfex (busulfan) or Amsidine (amsacrine).\n\nDMA is an versatile Lewis basic solvent, e.g. used to establish the ECW model.\n\nDimethylacetamide is a medium potency reproductive toxicant (toxic for reproduction, category 1B) and may damage fertility or the unborn child. It is harmful in contact with skin or if inhaled and causes serious eye irritation.\n\nDimethylacetamide can cause hepatotoxicity, including occupational dimethylacetamide exposure-induced hepatotoxicity. At high doses (400 mg/kg body mass daily), dimethylacetamide causes effects on the central nervous system (e.g. depression, hallucinations and delusion).\n\nDimethylacetamide may be incompatible with polycarbonate or ABS. Devices (e.g. syringes) that contain polycarbonate or ABS can dissolve when coming into contact with dimethylacetamide.\n\nIn 2011, dimethylacetamide was identified in the EU as a Substance of very high concern (SVHC) because of its reproductive toxicity. In 2014, the European Commission has started an investigation to restrict the use of dimethylacetamide in the EU according to REACH.\n\nIn 2015, the CNESST (Committee on Standards, Equity, Health and Safety at Work in Quebec) has adopted a tightened classification of dimethylacetamide:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258406", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258406", "title": "Slow Down (Larry Williams song)", "text": "Slow Down (Larry Williams song)\n\n\"Slow Down\" is a rock and roll song written and performed by Larry Williams. Recorded in 1957, AllMusic writer Stewart Mason describes it as \"raucous enough to be punk rock\nnearly a full two decades before the concept was even in existence.\" Specialty Records released it as a single in 1958, but only the second-side \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\" reached the record charts. Both songs were later covered by the Beatles.\n\nWilliams recorded the song at Master Recorders, Hollywood, California, on September 11, 1957. Music journalist Gene Sculatti describes the instrumentation provided by the back-up musicians as \"unstoppable, nongimmicky, almost careening out of control with its pounding piano and booting sax, 'Slow Down' is arguably Williams's hippest track\". The personnel includes:\n\n\"Slow Down\" was performed by the Beatles during their early career. In 1964, they recorded a version and Parlophone released it on the \"Long Tall Sally\" EP in June in the UK. In July, the song was included on the American album \"Something New\". Capitol Records released it as a single, with \"Matchbox\" (also from the \"Long Tall Sally\" EP) as the A-side. \"Slow Down\" reached number 25 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song is also included on the 1988 \"Past Masters\" compilation. A performance specifically recorded for broadcast by the BBC is found on the album \"Live at the BBC\" (1994).\n\nIn \"Revolution in the Head\", author Ian MacDonald criticized the performance as \"one of the Beatles' least successful rock-and-roll covers\", lacking \"bottom, drive and basic cohesion\" and stated that \"The guitar solo is embarrassing and the sound balance a shambles\". He also pointed out the edit at 1:14 whereupon the piano momentarily disappears and McCartney's bass becomes inaudible. According to MacDonald, the personnel includes:\n"}
{"id": "2258407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258407", "title": "Mukho", "text": "Mukho\n\nMukho () is a harbor in Donghae City, Gangwon Province, South Korea. It is located on the shore of the East Sea (Sea of Japan). In the past it played an important role in the shipping of iron ore and coal; much of this role has been taken over by Donghae Harbor in recent years. Mukho is an important harbor of refuge and home to a large number of fishing vessels. A passenger ferry operates from the port to Ulleung Island. The harbor is connected to land-based transportation by two stations on the Yeongdong Line and an interchange on the Donghae Expressway. The ship Mangyongbong 92 carrying a 140 person delegation for the 2018 Winter Olympics from North Korea berthed at this harbor, as protesters opposing North Korea subsequently gathered singing Aegukga. The harbor first opened in 1941.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258409", "title": "Brewers–Cubs rivalry", "text": "Brewers–Cubs rivalry\n\nThe Brewers–Cubs rivalry is a Major League Baseball (MLB) rivalry between the Milwaukee Brewers and Chicago Cubs. Both clubs are members of MLB's National League (NL) Central Division. The rivalry is also sometimes known as the I-94 Rivalry, because the two teams' ballparks are located only from each other off Interstate 94 (I-94). Bob Uecker and Harry Caray have been sportscasters for their respective teams. \n\nThe Brewers and Cubs have been playing each other in spring training Cactus League games since the Brewers franchise began as the Seattle Pilots in 1969. However, the rivalry did not begin until , when the Brewers moved from the American League (AL) Central Division to the National League Central. Until then, the Brewers had a rivalry with Chicago's AL team, the White Sox.\n\nThe Cubs lead the regular season series 189–180. The teams have never met in the postseason.\n\nThe Brewers and Cubs met for the first official time on June 13, 1997 in interleague play, a 4–2 Brewers victory at Wrigley Field in Chicago. They met for the first time as division rivals on June 15, 1998, a 6–5 Cubs victory also in Wrigley Field.\n\nAfter battling for the NL Central title in both 2007 and 2008, the teams met at Miller Park for the Brewers' home opener in 2009. During the second game of the series on April 11, the Brewers had the highest attendance in Major League Baseball for the rivalry game.\n\nDuring games in Milwaukee, it was sometimes common for there to be many Cubs fans in attendance. This has been largely due to the ticket availability at Miller Park; Wrigley Field has routinely sold out in the past, so it has often been easier and cheaper for Cubs fans to watch games at Miller Park. During the 2006 season, the Milwaukee Brewers started the \"Take Back Miller Park\" campaign to regain home field advantage. Since then, the dominating presence of Cubs fans has somewhat dwindled as the Brewers have become more popular with local fans following the sale of the team from Bud Selig to Mark Attanasio. Through the 2007 and 2008 seasons, the rivalry became more intense with both teams battling for the National League Central crown, a prize the Cubs eventually claimed both seasons. During 2008, the Brewers had a sellout streak going at the start of a mid-July series at home against the Cubs.\n\nThe rivalry was less prominent in the early 2010s, as both teams finished well out of playoff contention in 2010, while in 2011 the Brewers claimed the NL Central title and the Cubs struggled to a 71–91 record.\n\nAfter the season ended, former Brewer player, coach and manager Dale Sveum was hired by the Cubs to be their new manager in . The Brewers in 2012, won 13 of 17 games against the Cubs to take the all-time series at 118–117.\n\nIn 2017, a surprisingly competitive Brewers team led by young prospects and resurgent veterans challenged the defending World Series champion Cubs for the division, the two played in a key end of the season series which led to the Cubs clinching their second division crown in a row, finishing the season 92–70, six games ahead of the 86–76 Brewers.\n\nThe rivalry reached a pivotal stage in 2018. After narrowly missing the playoffs in 2017, the Brewers made several acquisitions during the off-season. They signed free agent outfielder Lorenzo Cain and acquired former Miami Marlins outfielder Christian Yelich in a blockbuster trade. These acquisitions, both occurring on January 25, 2018, helped the Brewers match the Cubs in terms of offensive prowess. \nDuring the regular season, the Cubs won eight of first nine meetings, but the Brewers the Brewers ended up winning the last four series against the Cubs and both teams were tied for first place in the NL Central after 162 games. The teams faced off in a tie-breaker game for the division title. Milwaukee won 3–1, winning the division and securing home-field advantage throughout the National League playoffs. The Brewers also enjoyed a large contingent of Brewers fans at Wrigley Field during this game, which marked a turn in a series where Cubs fans normally \"took over\" Miller Park. The Cubs were relegated to the Wild Card Game, which they lost to the Colorado Rockies. The Brewers went on to beat the Rockies in the NLDS but lost to the Los Angeles Dodgers in the NLCS.\n\nSports rivalries of the same cities/states:\n"}
{"id": "2258411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258411", "title": "Matchbox (song)", "text": "Matchbox (song)\n\n\"Matchbox\" is a song written and recorded by Carl Perkins and released in 1957. Blind Lemon Jefferson wrote and recorded a song entitled \"Match Box Blues\" in 1927, which is musically different but which contains some lyric phrases in common. \n\n\"Matchbox\" was recorded as a rockabilly song by Carl Perkins in December 1956 and by fellow Sun Records performer, Jerry Lee Lewis - who played piano on the original track - in 1958. The Carl Perkins tune shares some lyrics with 1920s blues songs by Ma Rainey and Blind Lemon Jefferson but the music is totally different. Sam Phillips and Sun Records released the Carl Perkins version as the B-side to \"Your True Love\". Although only the A-side became a record chart hit in 1957, \"Matchbox\" is one of Perkins' best-known recordings and variety of musicians have recorded the tune.\n\nMa Rainey recorded \"Lost Wandering Blues\" in Chicago in March 1924. Paramount Records issued it on the standard ten-inch 78 rpm single (no. 12098) Her lyrics include the matchbox as a suitcase reference:\n\nThree years later, Blind Lemon Jefferson used it for the title of his recording as \"Match Box Blues\" on March 14, 1927, for Okeh Records in Atlanta, Georgia. Blues author Paul Oliver stated that both Rainey and Jefferson \"may have absorbed [the line] from traditional usage.\"\n\nJefferson recorded the song twice more in April 1927 for Paramount Records. Although they contain some differences, they include\n\nSubsequently, the song was recorded by several blues and country swing musicians, such as Lead Belly, Big Bill Broonzy, the Shelton Brothers, and Roy Newman and His Boys.\n\nAfter recording \"Your True Love\" at Sun Records studio, Carl Perkins's father Buck suggested that he write a song based on snatches of lyrics that he remembered. Buck knew only a few lines from the 1927 song from the recordings by Jefferson or the Shelton Brothers. As Perkins sang the few words his father had suggested, Jerry Lee Lewis, who was at that time a session piano player at Sun Studios, began a restrained boogie-woogie riff. Carl began picking out a melody on the guitar and improvised lyrics. The Sun recording on December 4, 1956 was produced by Sam Phillips at Sun Studios in Memphis.\n\nPerkins maintained that he had never heard Jefferson's song when he recorded \"Matchbox\". The songs are musically, thematically, and lyrically totally different. Jefferson's song is about a mean spirited woman; Perkins' is about a lovelorn \"poor boy\" with limited prospects. The song was published and copyrighted in 1957 in the US with words and music by Carl Lee Perkins by Knox Music/Hill and Range Songs of New York.\n\nThe \"Matchbox\" recording session is historically significant as a milestone in rock and roll history because later that day, Elvis Presley, Johnny Cash, and Lewis were all in the Sun Studio with Sam Phillips with Carl Perkins and his band. The impromptu group formed at this jam session became known as the Million Dollar Quartet.\n\nCarl Perkins performed the song on ABC-TV's \"Ozark Jubilee\" on February 2, 1957. Perkins and his band also performed the song on the syndicated TV show \"Ranch Party\" hosted by Tex Ritter in 1957. There was also a promo ad for the release of the Sun single in \"Billboard\" magazine.\n\nThe Beatles were fans of Perkins and performed \"Matchbox\" during their shows in 1961 and 1962. The song served as the vocal spot for their drummer, Pete Best, until his sacking in August 1962, at which point John Lennon took over as lead singer. A live version from December that year was included on the 1977 album \"Live! at the Star-Club in Hamburg, Germany; 1962\". In July 1963, the Beatles performed \"Matchbox\" with Ringo Starr, Best's replacement, on lead vocals for their BBC radio show \"Pop Go the Beatles\". This version was included on the 1994 compilation \"Live at the BBC\".\n\nStarr also sang lead vocals when the band recorded the song for their \"Long Tall Sally\" EP in 1964. Perkins was visiting London and was invited to observe the session on June 1. Starr later recalled feeling \"very embarrassed\" because he had a bad throat; two days later, he was hospitalized with acute tonsillitis and pharyngitis, resulting in him missing the start of the Beatles' world tour. The band were supplemented on the recording by producer George Martin, who played piano. In his commentary on the track, author Ian MacDonald dismisses the Beatles' performance as \"flat-footed\", adding that, as a keen student of Perkins' guitar playing, only George Harrison demonstrates \"any motivation\" in his contribution.\n\n\"Matchbox\" was released in the UK on June 19 as the final track on \"Long Tall Sally\". In the US, it instead appeared on the Capitol Records LP \"Something New\" in July, before being issued on a single, backed by \"Slow Down\", on August 24. \"Matchbox\" peaked at number 17 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart and number 6 on Canada's CHUM Hit Parade. The song was subsequently included on the Beatles compilation albums \"Rock 'n' Roll Music\", \"Past Masters\" and \"Mono Masters\".\n\nCarl Perkins' \"Matchbox\", along with \"Blue Suede Shoes\", \"Honey Don't\", and \"Gone, Gone, Gone\" was performed live on February 19, 1987, at the Palomino Club in North Hollywood, California, by George Harrison, Bob Dylan, John Fogerty, Taj Mahal, and Jesse Ed Davis. This performance was filmed and recorded. The assembled musicians were dubbed \"the Silver Wilburys\", perhaps a reference to an earlier name for the Beatles, the Silver Beetles.\n"}
{"id": "2258413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258413", "title": "Ibn Khordadbeh", "text": "Ibn Khordadbeh\n\nAbu'l-Qasim Ubaydallah ibn Abdallah ibn Khordadbeh () (c. 820 – 912 CE), better known as Ibn Khordadbeh or Ibn Khurradadhbih, was the author of the earliest surviving Arabic book of administrative geography. He was a Persian geographer and bureaucrat of the 9th century. He was the son of Abdallah ibn Khordadbeh, a prominent Abbasid general, who was the son of a Zoroastrian convert to Islam. Ibn Khordadbeh was appointed \"Director of Posts and Intelligence\" for the province of Jibal in northwestern Iran under the Abbasid Caliph al-Mutammid (ruled 869–885 CE). In this capacity ibn Khordadbeh served as both postmaster general and the Caliph's personal spymaster in that vital province.\n\nAround 846-847CE ibn Khordadbeh wrote \"Kitāb al Masālik w’al Mamālik\" (\"The Book of Roads and Kingdoms\") (with the second edition of the book being published in 885CE). In this work, ibn Khordadbeh described the various peoples and provinces of the Abbasid Caliphate. Along with maps, the book also includes descriptions of the land, people and culture of the Southern Asian coast as far as Brahamputra, The Andaman Islands, peninsular Malaysia and Java. The lands of Tang China, Unified Silla (Korea) and Japan are referenced within his work. He was also one of the earliest Muslim writers to record Viking trade to the east: 'merchants called \"Rus\" traded in the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, transporting their merchandise by camel as far as Baghdad.\n\nIbn Khordadbeh clearly mentions Waqwaq twice: \"East of China are the lands of Waqwaq, which are so rich in gold that the inhabitants make the chains for their dogs and the collars for their monkeys of this metal. They manufacture tunics woven with gold. Excellent ebony wood is found there.\" And again: \"Gold and ebony are exported from Waqwaq.\"\n\nThe book does not reflect a strong influence from Greek earlier works such as Ptolemy's. The work uses heavily Persian administrative terms, gives considerable weight to Pre-Islamic Iranian history, uses native Iranian cosmological division system of the world. These reflect the existence of Iranian sources at the heart of the work.\n\nIt is one of the few surviving sources that describes Jewish merchants known as Radhanites.\n\nKhordadbeh wrote other books. He wrote around 8–9 other books on many subjects such as \"descriptive geography\" (the book \"Kitāb al Masālik w’al Mamālik\"), \"etiquettes of listening to music\", \"Persian genealogy\", cooking\", \"drinking\", \"astral patterns\", \"boon-companions\", \"world history\", \"music and musical instruments\". The book on music had the title \"Kitāb al-lahw wa-l-malahi\" which is on musical matters of Pre-Islamic Persia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258415", "title": "Yes It Is", "text": "Yes It Is\n\n\"Yes It Is\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles. Written by John Lennon (credited to Lennon–McCartney) it was first released in 1965 as the B-side to \"Ticket to Ride\". It features some of the Beatles' most complex and dissonant three-part vocal harmonies and showcases George Harrison's early use of volume pedal guitar. Ian MacDonald describes the song as having \"rich and unusual harmonic motion.\"\n\nIn his 1980 interview with \"Playboy\", John Lennon described \"Yes It Is\" as an attempt to rewrite \"This Boy\" (the style of the song) that \"didn't quite work\". Paul McCartney on the other hand described it as \"a very fine song of John's\" that he and Lennon had finished writing together.\n\nThe song is in the 12/8 time signature, in the key of E and begins (on \"If you wear red tonight ...\") with a I–IV–ii7–V7 chord progression (E–A–F#m7–B7) in which the word \"to\"night\"\" (B melody note) appears as a \"delicately haunting\" 4th above the F#m7, creating a suspension. The melodic pitches of this first two bar phrase are repeated (with initial repetition of the G# melody note) on \"remember what I said tonight,\" except that the B melody note on the second \"to\"night\"\" is now backed by a ♭VII (D) chord that shapes the B melody note into a more \"luscious\" 6th. The chorus (\"Yes it is, it's true. Yes it is, it's true\") involves a I (E chord) – III (G# chord) – IV (A chord) – I (E chord) progression in which the major III (G#) chord appears for the first time in the song to propel the Plagal drop from IV (A) to the tonic I (E) chord.\n\nOver the course of a five-hour recording session, the Beatles attempted 14 takes of the basic track before perfecting it. \"Yes It Is\" was recorded on 16 February 1965, the same day that they completed Harrison's \"I Need You\". After completing the rhythm track, Lennon, McCartney and Harrison recorded their vocal harmonies in three hours, singing live together using the suggestion of George Martin that they sing their three part harmony in the style of a barber shop quartet.\n\n\"Yes It Is\" was released as the B-side of the \"Ticket to Ride\" single in both the US and the UK. American pressings of the single erroneously show \"Yes It Is\" as being from the film \"Eight Arms to Hold You\" (the original title for the film, \"Help!\"), in which it did not appear. It reached number 46 in the \"Billboard\" Hot 100.\n\nThe song was included on \"Beatles VI\" in the US (utilizing the \"duophonic\" stereo remix from the original mono track, with additional echo and reverb added), and on subsequent compilation albums including \"Love Songs\", the British version of the \"Rarities\" album, \"Only the Beatles\", a British promotional cassette for Heineken Beer in 1986 (on which it made its first true stereo appearance), \"Past Masters, Volume One\", and also on \"Anthology 2\" in an alternate version that combines the second and fourteenth takes. The original mono single mix appears on the \"Mono Masters\" CD as part of \"The Beatles in Mono\" box set.\n\nAuthor Ian MacDonald praised \"Yes It Is\" along with its accompanying a-side \"Ticket to Ride\". He described the both songs as \"psychologically deeper than The Beatles had ever recorded before\" and declared that they marked a huge step forward in the Beatles development as songwriters.\n\nAccording to Ian MacDonald:\n"}
{"id": "2258422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258422", "title": "Goguryeo art", "text": "Goguryeo art\n\nGoguryeo art is the art of Goguryeo, an ancient Korean kingdom (37 BCE – 668 CE) which occupied large areas of present-day Northeast China and Korea. Its distinct style is marked by flowing lines and vivid colors. The prime examples of this style are tomb murals excavated in North Korea and Manchuria, which were produced from the 3rd to 7th centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258423", "title": "I'm Down", "text": "I'm Down\n\n\"I'm Down\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles written by Paul McCartney (credited to Lennon–McCartney) and first released as the B-side to the single \"Help!\" in 1965. According to critic Richie Unterberger of AllMusic, \"I'm Down\" is \"one of the most frantic rockers in the entire Beatles' catalog.\" McCartney told writer Barry Miles that the song and his vocal style on it were influenced by Little Richard, \"I used to sing his stuff but there came a point when I wanted one of my own, so I wrote 'I'm Down.'\"\n\nThe Beatles recorded \"I'm Down\" on 14 June 1965 in the same session as \"Yesterday\" and \"I've Just Seen a Face\".\n\nThe Beatles recorded the backing track in seven takes. The first of these takes can be heard on \"Anthology 2\", with a quiet organ track and no backing vocals. At the beginning of the Anthology version, McCartney says, \"Let's hope this one turns out pretty darn good, huh?\" in a faux American accent. During the session, particularly between takes one and two, McCartney can be heard repeating the phrase \"Plastic soul, man, plastic soul\". He later said that the phrase, which the Beatles later adapted for the title of their album \"Rubber Soul\", was used by black musicians to describe Mick Jagger.\n\nThe official release date for the \"Help\"/\"I'm Down\" single was 19 July 1965 on Capitol Records in the United States and 23 July on Parlophone in the United Kingdom. \"I'm Down\" was never released on an official Beatle studio album, and was only available in the US in mono as the B-side of the \"Help!\" single until the summer of 1976. That year, it appeared in stereo on \"Rock 'n' Roll Music\", a compilation LP released in the US by Capitol featuring up-tempo Beatles' tracks. The first CD release was in 1988 on the compilation \"Past Masters, Volume One\", where it appeared in true stereo.\n\nThere is also an alternate version of the song (take 1) on \"Anthology 2\". The tempo is slower and there are no backing vocals.\n\nThe Beatles used \"I'm Down\" to close concerts in their final year as a live act, replacing \"Long Tall Sally\" for most of those shows.\n\nDuring their performance at Shea Stadium in August 1965 (the largest audience the Beatles ever drew during their career as a live touring band), the band played a memorably frenzied version of the song, with John Lennon playing runs on a Vox Continental combo organ with his elbows at times. Lennon's antics caused both Lennon and George Harrison to laugh during the performance as they sing backing vocals from the same microphone. Footage of this performance may be seen on \"The Beatles Anthology\" video. Paul McCartney won praise for his soulful singing when they performed it at the Hollywood Bowl.\n\nThe band also played this song during their 12 September 1965 appearance on \"The Ed Sullivan Show\", which was recorded 14 August 1965, the day before the Shea concert. Lennon played the keyboard with his elbow for this performance as well. However, Lennon played guitar, rather than organ, for a version recorded in Tokyo on their 1966 tour, even though a Vox organ was set up on stage.\n\nThe Beatles also played \"I'm Down\" to close their brief live concert at the Circus Krone-Bau in Munich, West-Germany, on June 24, 1966. A recording of the show was aired on German television some time later and can be accessed through several sites. In this show, just prior to playing \"I'm Down\", an interlude occurred providing a glimpse of the relationships between the band members: \nMcCartney played the song to open his set at The Concert for New York City following the 11 September 2001 terrorist attacks. The concert was held at Madison Square Garden in support of firefighters, policemen, and other public workers who suffered from the aftermath of the attacks. He also reintroduced \"I'm Down\" into his set list for his three concerts at Citi Field (which replaced Shea Stadium) in July 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258434", "title": "Are language", "text": "Are language\n\nThe Are language is an Austronesian language of the eastern Papua New Guinean mainland.\n"}
{"id": "2258437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258437", "title": "WGNO", "text": "WGNO\n\nWGNO, virtual and UHF digital channel 26, is an ABC-affiliated television station licensed to New Orleans, Louisiana, United States. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with CW affiliate WNOL-TV (channel 38). The two stations share studios at The Galleria on Galleria Drive (just south of I-10) in Metairie; WGNO's transmitter is located on East Josephine Street in Chalmette. On cable, the station is available on Cox Communications and AT&T U-verse channel 11.\n\nThe station first signed on the air at 5:00 p.m. on October 16, 1967, as WWOM-TV. The call sign stood for \"The Wonderful World Of Movies,\" an adaptation of the \"Wonderful World of Music\" meaning used by co-owned radio station WWOM 600 AM, now WVOG, and 98.5 WWOM-FM, now WYLD-FM. The station inaugurated programming with a greeting by then-Mayor Victor H. Schiro, which was followed by its first program, the 1927 Al Jolson film \"The Jazz Singer\". Originally owned by David Wagenvoord, it was the first independent station in the state of Louisiana and the first commercial television station to sign on in New Orleans since WWL-TV Channel 4 debuted as the market's CBS affiliate on September 7, 1957.\n\nThe station—which broadcast for eight hours a day from late afternoon to midnight during its first years of operation—maintained a general entertainment programming format consisting mostly of older movies, some theatrical cartoon shorts and a few off-network syndicated programs. During its first decade on the air, the station also cherry-picked several programs from NBC, ABC and CBS that WDSU (channel 6), WVUE-TV (then on channel 12, now on channel 8) and WWL-TV chose not to broadcast. In 1969, the station experimented with a 24-hour daily schedule, claiming to be the first television station in the United States to broadcast on such a schedule; however, this format was short-lived.\nThe station was sold to Communications Corp. of the South in 1971; after the purchase was finalized, the station changed its call letters to WGNO-TV on March 9, 1972. Around this time, the station began running more off-network syndicated sitcoms and westerns, along with a moderate amount of cartoons. The station expanded its programming schedule to about 12 hours each day by 1972, then began signing on at 10:00 a.m. in 1974; WGNO expanded its daily programming hours to about 19 hours a day by 1975. The station was sold to Seymour Smith and his family in 1976, continuing to program a general entertainment format with vintage sitcoms, older movies and religious programs.\n\nWGNO began to be carried on many cable providers in southern Louisiana (including within the Baton Rouge market) during the 1970s, before it was replaced by Atlanta-based superstation WTCG. In 1981, WGNO also ran business news programming from the Financial News Network. From 1982 to 1987, WGNO aired a series of public service announcements featuring a character called \"Tom Foote\"; Tom was a local entertainer seen in area schools and in the French Quarter. For a time, the station produced an hour-long program called \"Tom Foote's Video Clubhouse\", as well as \"News for Kids\", produced by Foote.\n\nWGNO was purchased by Glendive Media in 1978, who would in turn sell the station to Tribune Broadcasting in 1983. By coincidence, the station's callsign reflects a connection with Tribune's flagship television station in Chicago, WGN-TV (whose own call letters stand for \"World's Greatest Newspaper\", in reference to the longtime slogan of the company's founding newspaper, the \"Chicago Tribune\"); however, channel 26 had the \"WGN\" lettering in its callsign twelve years before Tribune even bought the station; this connection, coupled with the fact that two other Tribune-owned television stations also incorporated the \"WGN\" name in their callsigns (Denver's KWGN-TV and Atlanta's WGNX (now WGCL-TV), the former of which remains owned by the company), channel 26 kept the WGNO call letters. Under Tribune, the station continued to grow, and WGNO remained the leading independent station in the market even as other competitors signed on the air—WNOL-TV (channel 38) in March 1984 and later, WCCL (channel 49, now Ion Television owned-and-operated station WPXL-TV) in March 1989. WGNO reportedly turned down an offer by Fox to become a charter affiliate of the network, prior to its October 1986 launch; Fox programming instead went to WNOL, which its then-owners TVX Broadcast Group used as leverage to get Fox to sign a deal to affiliate with the majority of the company's independent stations. The station dropped the \"-TV\" suffix from the callsign on August 17, 1988.\n\nOn November 2, 1993, the Warner Bros. Television division of Time Warner announced the formation of The WB Television Network, in which the Tribune Company held a minority ownership interest (initially 12.5%, before eventually expanding to 22%). As a result, Tribune affiliated the majority of its independent stations with the network as charter affiliates. This effectively ended WGNO's 28-year run as an independent station upon The WB's launch on January 11, 1995. At that time, The WB only offered a few hours of programming each week (airing only for two hours on Wednesday nights at the time of its launch, before adding a three-hour Sunday evening lineup, and a Monday-Saturday children's program block in September 1995); as a result, WGNO continued to run syndicated programming for the remainder of the broadcast day.\n\nThat same year, Burnham Broadcasting sold longtime ABC affiliate WVUE-TV (now owned by Gray Television) and three other stations to SF Broadcasting, a joint venture between Savoy Pictures and Fox, resulting in all four stations dropping their \"Big Three\" affiliations and joining Fox. On August 14, 1995, ABC signed a 10-year affiliation agreement with Tribune Broadcasting for WGNO to become its New Orleans affiliate. WVUE switched its affiliation to Fox on January 1, 1996 (as SF Broadcasting's only ABC affiliate to join that network; KHON-TV in Honolulu, WALA-TV in Mobile and WLUK-TV in Green Bay were all affiliated with NBC prior to their switches), resulting in a three-way swap that resulted in WGNO becoming the market's new ABC affiliate, while the WB affiliation (along with cartoons and some syndicated programs that were part of WGNO's inventory) moved to former Fox affiliate WNOL-TV (channel 38).\n\nAs a result of joining ABC, channel 26 became the second Tribune-owned station to switch to a \"Big Three\" network (Atlanta sister station WGNX, now owned by the Meredith Corporation as WGCL-TV, was set to affiliate with The WB at its launch, but joined CBS one month prior in December 1994 after WAGA-TV switched from CBS to Fox through a deal with New World Communications) and only the third \"Big Three\" station in its portfolio (along with KDAL-TV (now KDLH) in Duluth, Minnesota, a CBS affiliate that Tribune had owned from 1960 to 1970). From 1999—when Tribune sold CBS affiliate WGNX (now WGCL-TV) in Atlanta to the Meredith Corporation—until 2013, WGNO was the only Tribune-owned television station that was affiliated with a \"Big Three\" network (by 2007, the company's other 22 stations were, and remain, affiliates of either Fox, The CW or MyNetworkTV). However, Tribune's December 2013 acquisition of Local TV added eleven additional \"Big Three\" stations to its portfolio; the purchase also displaced WGNO/WNOL as the company's smallest television stations by market size, with the Fort Smith, Arkansas duopoly of CBS affiliate KFSM-TV and MyNetworkTV affiliate KXNW filling that role.\n\nTribune Broadcasting began managing the operations of WNOL under a local marketing agreement in 1996. The company merged with channel 38's then-owner Qwest Broadcasting (a company run by a group of minority investors led by Quincy Jones) in 2000, creating the market's first television duopoly with WGNO. Despite now being placed under common ownership, WGNO and WNOL continued to operate separately from one another: WNOL continued to be based out of its existing studio facility on Canal Street. In July 2005, WGNO relocated from its studio facilities at the World Trade Center New Orleans in the city's Central Business District to a facility at New Orleans Centre.\nAs Hurricane Katrina approached the Louisiana coast in August 2005, WGNO's operations were moved to fellow ABC affiliate WBRZ-TV in Baton Rouge. For a time after the hurricane hit, the station's evening newscasts were produced out of various locations throughout the New Orleans area as the main studio at the World Trade Center New Orleans was inaccessible. WGNO eventually established temporary facilities (including a makeshift studio and control room) from two trailers outside of the Louisiana Superdome, with most of the station's broadcast equipment being purchased from eBay resellers. In April 2006, WGNO announced that its broadcast operations would temporarily relocate back to the World Trade Center building as New Orleans Centre management decided not to re-open the complex and terminated the station's lease agreement (WGNO had only moved into the facility a few weeks before Katrina hit the area).\n\nIn February 2007, Tribune announced that rather than move WGNO to WNOL's facility on Canal Street, the station would instead move its operations to The Galleria building in nearby Metairie; this made WGNO the first New Orleans area television station to move its studio facilities outside of the city proper. Station management indicated that they wanted to keep WGNO's operations in New Orleans, but could not find a facility that was suitable. The station began broadcasting from new high definition-ready studios inside The Galleria on August 29, 2007 (coinciding with the second anniversary of Hurricane Katrina), which included a brand-new news set and weather center.\n\nOn April 1, 2012, Tribune Broadcasting removed all WGNO, WNOL, and its then 21 other television stations from satellite provider DirecTV due to a carriage dispute over an increase in payments to transmit the stations' signals. DirecTV signed a new carriage agreement with Tribune on April 4, 2012, restoring both stations as well as the other Tribune-owned stations on DirecTV.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Hunt Valley, Maryland-based Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it would acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. Had the deal received regulatory approval by the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division, the acquisition of WNOL-TV and WGNO would have marked Sinclair's entry into Louisiana (the virtual duopolies of fellow ABC affiliate WEAR-TV and NBC affiliate WPMI-TV in the Pensacola, Florida–Mobile, Alabama market and Fox affiliate KBTV-TV and CBS affiliate KFDM in the Beaumont–Port Arthur market are the closest existing Sinclair properties to New Orleans).\n\nOn July 18, 2018, hours after Sinclair submitted a revision to the acquisition proposal that rescinded plans for WGN-TV and CW-affiliated sisters KDAF in Dallas-Fort Worth and KIAH in Houston to be sold to closely tied third-party companies—WGN-TV LLC and Cunningham Broadcasting, respectively—in order to address concerns expressed by FCC chairman Ajit Pai concerning the partner licensees Sinclair proposed using to allow it to operate certain Tribune stations in circumvention of the 39% national ownership cap, the FCC Commissioners' Board voted unanimously, 4-0, to send the Sinclair-Tribune acquisition proposal to an evidentiary review hearing before an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain stations in markets where Sinclair and Tribune both had television properties. On August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, and concurrently filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the DOJ over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Media Group announced it would acquire Tribune's assets for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. The deal—which would make Nexstar the largest television station operator by total number of stations upon its expected closure late in the third quarter of 2019—would give the WGNO/WNOL duopoly additional sister stations in Baton Rouge (Fox affiliate WGMB-TV, CW affiliate WBRL-CD, independent station KZUP-CD and NBC-affiliated SSA partner WVLA-TV), Alexandria (Natchez, Mississippi-licensed Fox affiliate WNTZ-TV) and Lafayette (CBS affiliate KLFY-TV). Factoring in Nexstar's existing properties in Shreveport (NBC affiliate KTAL-TV and SSA partners KMSS-TV [Fox] and KSHV-TV [MyNetworkTV]) and Monroe (Fox affiliate KARD and NBC-affiliated SSA partner KTVE), the combined company would have television stations in every media market within the state of Louisiana, except for Lake Charles, as a result. The deal was approved by the FCC on September 16, 2019 and closed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWhen Hurricane Katrina made landfall on the Louisiana coast on August 29, 2005, the storm destroyed WGNO's analog and digital transmitters. WGNO and WNOL temporarily transmitted their analog signals from a multi-purpose tower in Algiers, and broadcast their digital signals as subchannels of i: Independent Television (now Ion Television) owned-and-operated station WPXL-TV until March 29, 2008, when WNOL's digital transmitter on UHF channel 15 began operations. On March 1, 2008, WGNO completed construction of its replacement digital transmitter; however, since it operated on the same frequency as its analog signal (on UHF channel 26), the digital transmitter could not become operational until WGNO's analog transmitter was shut down. Until then, WGNO's high definition digital feed was remapped to virtual channel 26.1 through WNOL's digital signal on UHF channel 15, with WNOL's programming broadcasting in standard definition on virtual channel 38.1. On June 12, 2009, WGNO flash-cut its digital signal into operation on UHF channel 26, allowing WNOL to resume high definition broadcasts on digital channel 15.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast on WGNO include \"Extra\", \"The Big Bang Theory\", \"The People's Court\", \"Divorce Court\", and \"Access Hollywood\". The station also produces \"NOLA Marketplace\", a program profiling New Orleans area businesses.\n\nIn 1993, legendary network executive Brandon Tartikoff, who had engineered a successful turnaround of NBC's programming and viewership during the 1980s as president of the network, created a game show for WGNO called \"NO It Alls\" (hosted by present-day sports director Ed Daniels and hostess Isis Casanova); the program entered into national syndication in 1996, under the modified title \"Know It Alls\". \"NO It Alls\" ended in March 1996 with the start of the station's news programming.\n\nFrom 1993 (when the team relocated to New Orleans from Denver) until 1995, WGNO served as the over-the-air broadcaster of the American Association's New Orleans Zephyrs (now a member of the Pacific Coast League), carrying games from the minor league baseball franchise.\n\nFor a few years, WGNO had no NFL games outside of one simulcast wild card game from ESPN per year due to its ABC affiliation, and WDSU carrying the \"Monday Night Football\" games of the New Orleans Saints that were carried by ABC until the 2006 move of that package to ESPN. Until 2015, it carried Saints games that were produced as part of the NFL Network's \"Thursday Night Football\" package before that moved to a split between NBC and CBS. Thus, the only way the station would carry a Saints game is if they were a wild card or low division winner, and ESPN was chosen to broadcast that Wild Card Weekend game with ABC. This changed with the 2018 NFL season, when CBS' portion of the Thursday night schedule was moved to Fox and NBC's portion, except for the annual NFL Kickoff and Thanksgiving night games, became exclusive to NFL Network. WGNO now carries any Saints Thursday night games not broadcast on Fox.\n\nWGNO also airs select New Orleans Pelicans games through the network's broadcast rights with the NBA.\n\nWGNO presently broadcasts 22 hours of locally produced newscasts each week (with four hours on weekdays, and one hour each on Saturdays and Sundays); in regards to the number of hours devoted to news programming, it is the lowest newscast output out of the New Orleans market's television stations. Unlike most ABC affiliates in large or mid-sized markets, WGNO does not carry a morning newscast on weekends; it also does not carry traditional local newscasts in the 5:00, 6:00, and 10:00 p.m. timeslots on weekdays or on Saturday evenings, opting to air the magazine-style news program \"News with a Twist\" in those slots. In addition, the station produces the half-hour public affairs program \"The 411\", which airs Sundays at 6:30 a.m. with a rebroadcast later that morning on WNOL-TV.\n\nDuring hurricane coverage, WGNO often partners with other Tribune-owned stations to supplement WGNO's storm coverage; audio of the station's hurricane coverage is also simulcast on WTIX-FM (94.3), as was the case during Hurricane Gustav in September 2008 (in which WGNO hurricane coverage resulted in the station canceling local segments of the \"Jerry Lewis MDA Telethon\", which aired as scheduled on WNOL-TV) and Hurricane Isaac in August 2012. Since it launched its news operation in 1996, WGNO's newscasts have typically placed last among the market's four news-producing stations, similar to that of other former independents and Fox stations that joined a Big Three network as a result of the affiliation switches that occurred between 1994 and 1996.\n\nPrior to affiliating with ABC, news programming on WGNO consisted solely of news updates that ran daily from 1971 to the mid-1980s, airing during the station's syndicated programming. The station also produced a sports discussion program called the \"Hometown Sports Page\" during its latter years as an independent in the early 1990s. WGNO began developing a full-scale news department shortly after taking the ABC affiliation; the news department launched on March 18, 1996, with the debut of half-hour newscasts at 5:00 p.m. each weeknight and seven nights a week at 10:00 p.m. The station added an additional half-hour early evening newscast at 6:00 p.m. on September 21, 1998 (prior to that point, the station continued to air syndicated programming during the 6:00 p.m. half-hour). During the mid-to-late 2000s, the station was known for its \"Wheel of Justice\" series, which featured a bounty hunter named Tat-2, capturing local criminals with arrest warrants.\n\nOn May 1, 2006, WGNO began producing a half-hour primetime newscast at 9:00 p.m. weeknights for WNOL, designed as a competitor to the longer established hour-long newscast on Fox affiliate WVUE that had been airing in that same timeslot since the 1996 switch; the program ended on June 4, 2010, due to declining ratings (three days later on June 7, WNOL moved The CW's primetime schedule from the recommended 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. slot for the network's Central Time Zone affiliates, to 8:00 to 10:00 p.m. on tape delay). For many years after joining ABC, WGNO had the distinction of being one of the largest major network affiliates by market size that did not produce a weekday morning or midday newscast; this changed on September 8, 2008, when the station debuted a half-hour newscast at 11:00 a.m.; this was followed on September 29 by the launch of a two-hour morning newscast, \"Good Morning New Orleans\", running from 5:00 to 7:00 a.m. On April 20, 2009, WGNO moved its 6:00 p.m. newscast to the 6:30 timeslot, in order to reach viewers whose work commutes prevented them from arriving home in time to watch a 6:00 p.m. newscast; syndicated programming filled the program's former timeslot. The program did not attract significant viewership, and fell to last place in the evening news ratings within a year of its launch; the following year, the station reinstated its 6:00 p.m. newscast, creating the New Orleans market's only hour-long news block during that hour.\n\nOn January 31, 2011, WGNO reformatted the 6:00 p.m. newscast as \"News with a Twist\", a newsmagazine format that focuses on lighter stories and commentary and utilizes a mostly unscripted format. On December 12, 2011, the \"News with a Twist\" format was extended to the 5:00 p.m. newscast, concurrent with cancellation of the 6:30 p.m. newscast; the station's Saturday evening newscasts were replaced on December 17 with a weekend edition of \"News with a Twist\" that recaps feature stories seen during that week's 5:00 and 6:00 p.m. broadcasts. The weekday morning, 11:00 a.m. and Sunday evening newscasts retain a more traditional news format. WGNO – as well as WDSU – continue to broadcast their local newscasts in widescreen standard definition (WVUE was the first New Orleans area station to broadcasts its newscasts in high definition with WWL-TV upgrading to HD in October 2014); channel 26 is also the only news-producing television station owned by Tribune Broadcasting that does not broadcast its news programming in true high definition.\n\nAt the start of April 2020, the \"News with a Twist\" format was entirely discontinued as the state became a major hotspot in the coronavirus pandemic and Nexstar felt a return to a traditional newscast format in evening hours was much more appropriate.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258448", "title": "Magical Mystery Tour (song)", "text": "Magical Mystery Tour (song)\n\n\"Magical Mystery Tour\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles and the title track to the December 1967 television film of the same name. It was released on the band's \"Magical Mystery Tour\" soundtrack record, which was a double EP in Britain and most markets but an album in America, where Capitol Records supplemented the new songs with tracks issued on the Beatles' 1967 singles. The song was written primarily by Paul McCartney and credited to the Lennon–McCartney partnership.\n\nThe Beatles recorded the track in April and May 1967, soon after completing work on their album \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\", and several months before committing to make the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film. The song serves as an introduction to the audience, in the style of McCartney's opening title track to \"Sgt. Pepper\", and includes ringmaster calls, a trumpet fanfare and traffic sounds.\n\n\"Magical Mystery Tour\" is credited to Lennon–McCartney, although written primarily by Paul McCartney. McCartney said it was co-written by the pair. John Lennon said, \"Paul's song. Maybe I did part of it, but it was his concept.\" In 1972, Lennon said, \"Paul [wrote it]. I helped with some of the lyric.\" According to Hunter Davies' contemporary account of the recording sessions for the song, McCartney arrived with the chord structure but only the opening refrain (\"Roll up / Roll up for the mystery tour\"). McCartney asked Mal Evans, the Beatles' assistant and former road manager, to search local bus stations for posters with text that could be adapted for the song, in the manner of Lennon's \"Being for the Benefit of Mr. Kite!\" When Evans was unsuccessful, a brainstorming discussion took place in the studio the following day to complete the lyrics.\n\nThe lyrics explain in a general way the premise of the film: a charabanc mystery tour of the type that was popular in Britain when the Beatles were young. McCartney said that he and Lennon expanded the tour to make it magical, which allowed it to be \"a little more surreal than the real ones\", and that the song was \"very much in our fairground period\". There are also interpretations of the lyric as an explicit reference to drugs, since the Beatles were experimenting with acid in those years. McCartney himself said about the song:\n\nThe first session for \"Magical Mystery Tour\" took place at EMI Studios in London on 25 April 1967, less than a week after the final sessions for \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\". Since the song was not complete, much of the time was spent rehearsing before the group attempted a recording. Three takes were required to achieve a basic track, with a line-up comprising McCartney on piano, Lennon on acoustic guitar, George Harrison on lead guitar, and Ringo Starr on drums. During reduction mixing of this performance, flanging effect was added to Harrison's guitar part and to the piano over the song's coda. On 26 April, McCartney overdubbed his bass guitar part and the four band members, together with Evans and Neil Aspinall, added percussion such as maracas, tambourine, cowbell and extra drums; Lennon, McCartney and Harrison then taped heavily echoed, vocalised shouts. The following night, McCartney added his lead vocal while Lennon and Harrison sang backing vocals, including the \"Roll up / Roll up for the mystery tour\" lines. The backing vocals were recorded at a far slower speed so that the voices sounded higher when the tape speed was corrected.\n\nOn 3 May, a brass fanfare and other trumpet parts were added in a disorganised session where the four trumpet players, including David Mason and Elgar Howarth, began the evening without a score. According to Philip Jones, a friend of the session players, they became so impatient at the lack of activity that Howarth wrote out the score himself. A glockenspiel part was also overdubbed over the coda.\n\nIn author Ian MacDonald's description, the slow progress on the recording was indicative of the Beatles' drug intake during this period and, in the case of Lennon and Harrison, their disinterest in McCartney's film project at the time. The band committed to making \"Magical Mystery Tour\" in early September, after the death of their manager, Brian Epstein. The sessions for the soundtrack music ended on 7 November, when McCartney recorded a new barker-style introduction for \"Magical Mystery Tour\" and traffic sounds were added. The tape loop of traffic sounds was taken from a recording made on a bridge overlooking the M1 motorway and mixed to pan across the stereo image. The spoken introduction replaced an effort by Lennon, which was nevertheless retained in the version heard in the film. The latter version, which includes Lennon promising \"the trip of a lifetime\", in the middle of the track, also had additional applause and different bus sounds.\n\n\"Magical Mystery Tour\" was released as the title track to a six-song double EP in the United Kingdom on 8 December 1967. It was the first example of a double EP in Britain. The format was chosen over a single-disc EP playing at 33⅓ rpm because the Beatles were unwilling to accept the loss of audio fidelity inherent in the latter option. In the United States, the double EP was stretched to an LP by adding five songs previously released as singles. Although \"Billboard\" magazine announced that the US release was to take place in mid December, the album was issued on 27 November.\n\nThe song plays over the opening scene in the \"Magical Mystery Tour\" film, which was broadcast on BBC1 in the UK on 26 December, and as a reprise at the end. Although the television film was savaged by critics, earning the Beatles their first public and critical failure, the soundtrack record was highly successful. With regard to the unusual format, Nick Logan of the \"NME\" referred to it as \"the Beatles' new six-track EP, mini-LP or extended single, whatever you like to call it!\"<ref name=\"Sutherland/NME\"></ref> In the UK, it peaked at number 2 on the singles chart compiled by \"Record Retailer\" (later adopted as the UK Singles Chart) while the band's \"Hello, Goodbye\" held the top position. The EP was number 1 on \"Melody Maker\"s singles chart, demoting \"Hello, Goodbye\" for a week.\n\n\"Magical Mystery Tour\" later appeared on the Beatles' 1973 greatest hits compilation \"1967–1970\" and their 1982 themed compilation \"Reel Music\". During the CD era, the LP version of \"Magical Mystery Tour\" was issued on CD in all markets.\n\nIn \"Melody Maker\", Bob Dawbarn cited the sound quality of the EP as an example of why singles should be available in stereo in the UK, and he described \"Magical Mystery Tour\" as \"a massive storming piece with Paul singing lead over a tom-tom beat. The effect is mainly of guitars and brass with piano taking over at the end.\" \"Hit Parader\"s reviewer said that the soundtrack showed the Beatles extending their supremacy over \"80 scillion other groups\" and displaying a self-discipline in their arrangements and production that was absent on the Rolling Stones' new album, \"Their Satanic Majesties Request\". The writer concluded: \"In the opening song, the Beatles announce that they will take us away on their Magical Mystery Tour and they do indeed. You must listen in stereo.\"\n\nHaving been one of the few critics to review \"Sgt. Pepper\" unfavourably, Richard Goldstein of \"The New York Times\" complained that the Beatles were once more relying on studio artifice at the expense of true rock values and were overly focused on motif. Pairing \"Magical Mystery Tour\" with \"Your Mother Should Know\", he wrote: \"Both ... are motifs disguised as songs. Both declare their moods (in stock musical phrases) but neither succeeds in establishing them. Instead, these cuts are as tedious and stuffy as an after-dinner speech.\" Rex Reed of \"HiFi/Stereo Review\" wrote a scathing critique in which he derided the group's singing and writing on the album, saying that \"gimmicks don't compensate for confused musical ideas\", and \"Magical Mystery Tour\" was \"no more than a Radio City Music Hall parody. Nothing different or clever here.\" Robert Christgau of \"Esquire\" described the title song as \"disappointing\" and \"perfunctory\", although he conceded that the Beatles' new music should be viewed in the context of the television film. Writing in \"The Village Voice\" in 1976, in his retrospective on albums released during 1967, Christgau dismissed \"Magical Mystery Tour\" as \"the lame theme to their worst movie\" and said that along with \"The Fool on the Hill\", which followed it on the US LP, it had led listeners to overlook the quality of the remaining soundtrack songs.\n\nIn his book \"Revolution in the Head\", Ian MacDonald writes of the song: \"While energetic, the result is manufactured, its thin invention undisguised by a distorted production tricked out with unconvincing time and tempo changes ... The main idea – 'Roll up', etc. – is shop-worn, while the contrasting section – 'The Magical Mystery Tour is coming', etc. – does little more than transpose the verse sequence of 'Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds'.\" Writing for Rough Guides, Chris Ingham describes it as \"the bare bones of a song accompanied by faintly tired brassy parping\". Musicologist Walter Everett states: \"I agree with those who call 'Magical Mystery Tour' a warmed-over 'Sgt. Pepper'-type fanfare/invitation to what's to follow … The transcendent modulation is not accompanied by compelling enough lyrics or sufficient melodic interest … to rise to greatness.\"\n\nReviewing for \"Mojo\" in 2002, Charles Shaar Murray admired the song, saying that \"[McCartney's] lead vocal at its richest and most 'blaring' meets Lennon's filtered, vinegary backing part in one of the most inspired juxtapositions of Britain's two most distinctive rock voices\". He added: \"The sheer enthusiasm and excitement with which the song welcomes an uncharted but benign future represents the same archetypal '60s vision which informed the original \"\": that there is a better world ahead, and that it's gonna be \"fun\".\" Rob Sheffield of \"Rolling Stone\" cites the track as an example of how the 2009 remasters of the Beatles' CDs transformed their sound, particularly with regard to Starr's drums. In his description, \"'Magical Mystery Tour' goes from a likeable psychedelic trifle to a heavy krautrock blow-out.\"\n\nIn 1976, the American band Ambrosia covered \"Magical Mystery Tour\" for \"All This and World War II\", a film that set new recordings of 30 Lennon–McCartney compositions to newsreel footage from World War II. The song appears at the start of the film, accompanied by footage of German cavalry advancing into Poland in September 1939. Released as a single in the US, Ambrosia's version peaked at number 39 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The song has also been covered by Cheap Trick, Jive Bunny and the Mastermixers, and Don Latarski.<ref name=\"Fontenot/About\"></ref>\n\nMcCartney performed \"Magical Mystery Tour\" throughout his 1993 New World Tour. A live version from the tour was included on his album \"Paul Is Live\" and in the accompanying concert film, directed by Aubrey Powell.\n\nAccording to Mark Lewisohn and Walter Everett, except where noted:\n\nThe Beatles\n\nAdditional musicians\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258456", "title": "Joseph Isidore Samson", "text": "Joseph Isidore Samson\n\nJoseph Isidore Samson (2 July 1793 – 28 March 1871) was a 19th-century French actor and playwright.\n\nSamson was born at Saint-Denis, near Paris, the son of a restaurateur. He took first prize for comedy at the Conservatoire in 1812, married an actress with whom he had toured in France, and joined the Comédie-Française in 1826. There he remained until 1863, creating more than 250 parts.\n\nIn 1829 Samson became a professor at the Conservatoire, under whom Rachel Félix (1821–1858), Rose Cheri (1824–1861), the Brohans and others were trained. He wrote several comedies, among them \"La Belle-Mère et le gendre\" (1826), and \"La Famille poisson\" (1846). Samson died in Paris on 28 March 1871.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258460", "title": "Hamza Hamzaoğlu", "text": "Hamza Hamzaoğlu\n\nHamza Hamzaoğlu (born 1 July 1970) is a Turkish professional football manager and former player who is the manager of Süper Lig club Gençlerbirliği.\n\nHamzaoğlu began his career in 1988 with İzmirspor. In 1995, he transferred to Galatasaray as captain and midfielder, where he won the league two times, the cup and Super Cup one time. He left the club after 4 years and later played for Siirtspor, İstanbulspor, Yozgatspor and Konyaspor, before ending his career at Beylerbeyi in 2004.\n\nHamzaoğlu represented the Turkey U21 national team from 1991 until 1993, making 9 appearances in the process. He also made one appearance for the senior Turkey national team in 1993.\n\nHamzaoğlu began his managerial career with Konyaspor in 2004 as the club's caretaker manager, but it wasn't until 2008 that he signed a full-time contract with Malatyaspor. He left Malatyaspor the following year for Eyüpspor and managed Denizlispor a year later. In 2011, he was appointed at Akhisarspor, helping them achieve promotion to the Süper Lig by winning the club's first ever major trophy, the 2011–12 TFF First League. Hamzaoğlu also became the assistant of Fatih Terim in the Turkey national team the next year. \n\nOn 28 November 2014, he was appointed as the new manager of Galatasaray on the same day Cesare Prandelli was released from his contract. He signed a five-month contract until the end of the season. Hamzaoğlu won the league and the cup in that season, and in the following the Super Cup. His contract got terminated on 18 November 2015. Hamzaoğlu was also awarded the Turkish Manager of the Year Award for the year 2015.\n\nHe then managed Bursaspor, Osmanlıspor, Antalyaspor and BB Erzurumspor. In November 2019, he became the new manager of Süper Lig club Gençlerbirliği.\n\nGalatasaray\n\nKonyaspor\n\nAkhisarspor\n\nGalatasaray\n\n"}
{"id": "2258467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258467", "title": "Hapag-Lloyd Flight 3378", "text": "Hapag-Lloyd Flight 3378\n\nHapag-Lloyd Flight 3378 (HF-3378) was a passenger service operated by Hapag-Lloyd Flug from Chania, on the island of Crete, Greece, to Hannover, Germany. On 12 July 2000, the aircraft flying the route, an Airbus A310-304, registration with 143 passengers and 8 crew on board, set off for Hannover leaving the landing gear fully extended, as a precaution, since a malfunction had prevented its proper retraction after take-off. The plane eventually ran out of fuel while attempting a diversion to Vienna, crash-landing just short of runway 34. No fatalities resulted, although the aircraft was written off.\n\nCaptain Wolfgang Arminger (56) was the pilot-in-command. The flight departed at 10:59 CEDT, shortly after which it was found to be impossible to fully retract the landing gear, as indicated by both the red \"gear unsafe\" lamp and the yellow \"gear door open\" lamp. After a total of four retraction attempts, the gear was left in the fully extended condition where all lights indicated a valid condition with the doors trimmed for cruise airspeed. The flight continued towards Germany, as fuel must be burned before landing in any case. The crew had to cope with a heavier cockpit workload that was aggravated by the unavailability of the airline HF radio station for technical consultation, forcing the first officer to spend almost an hour establishing alternative communications with the airline through ACARS and Stockholm Radio. Using the Flight Management System (FMS), the crew estimated the aircraft's fuel consumption, and the captain in consultation with dispatch decided to shorten the flight and divert to Munich, where another A310 would be ready to take the passengers to their final destination. However, the captain ignored the fact that the FMS was not designed to take into account the extra drag produced by the extended landing gear. In fact, Munich was not within range, as eventually became clear from the unexpectedly rapid fall in fuel reserves. At about 12:00 CEDT, this led the captain to decide to divert to Vienna-Schwechat Airport.\n\nShortly thereafter, the first officer noted and reported to the captain that they had already consumed half of their initial fuel load, although they had progressed to only their last waypoint \"YNN\" still inside Greece (about a third of the total distance to Vienna). At 12:34, the FMS prediction for fuel remaining upon arrival at Vienna fell to 1.9 t. Under such conditions, the airline rules require immediate diversion to the nearest suitable airport, which would have been Zagreb, 10 minutes away. The investigation report states \"there was no evidence of immediate crew response to this situation.\" While contact with Zagreb ATC was made 9 minutes later, the crew pressed on towards Vienna, requesting the most direct access to a runway. At 12:53, the crew notified Vienna ATC that if direct runway access were not available, they would prefer to divert to closer Graz. This prompted Vienna ATC to inquire and finally learn that the flight was short of fuel, but the pilots declared no emergency, still anticipating a normal landing. When the fuel gauges fell through 1.9 t remaining, the first officer twice urged the captain to declare an emergency, but the captain postponed such action. At 13:01, the \"LT-Fuel low level\" warning indicated remaining fuel of 1340 kg, which automatically generates an ACARS message. At this time, the aircraft was northeast of Zagreb, south-east from Graz, and from the destination Vienna. At 11:07 UTC, the crew finally declared an emergency due to lack of fuel, while still stating that they expected to reach Vienna.\n\nAt this point, the crew was still debating a possible diversion to Graz, but discovered that the approach chart for that airport was missing from the aircraft map collection. At 11:12 UTC, the crew still debated the contribution of the FMS to their plight; the first officer (correctly) distrusted its performance with gear down, while the captain still defended it. The captain instructed the first officer to request no emergency services for post-landing, and to defer deployment of the flaps, especially if the engines flamed out. At 11:26 UTC, the pressure dropped at the inlet of the right external fuel pump, but the pump was left running. Both engines flamed out from the runway, although the first officer was able to restart them for a few more minutes of thrust. As there was no time for the final checklist, the \"Land Recovery\" switch was neglected, resulting in limited operation of inboard ailerons needed for stability control at low speeds. The left wing tip hit the grassy surface about 660 m short of the runway, followed by the left landing gear, which collapsed after 22 m. The aircraft skidded on the left engine and the right main landing gear, over arrays of approach lights and antennas, turning left 90°, and coming to rest off the runway near the end taxiway. About 26 passengers received minor injuries while using the escape slides. Although the photographs suggest that the aircraft remained structurally intact, it was written off due to the severe damage to the underside of the fuselage. This was the sixth hull-loss of an Airbus A310.\n\nThe final Report on the investigation of the incident was published (only in German) on 21 March 2006 by the Air Accident Investigation Board (\"Flugunfalluntersuchungsstelle\") of the Austrian Federal Office for Transport (\"Bundesanstalt für Verkehr\", BAV). The Report identified the cause of the failure of landing gear retraction as a minor oversight during maintenance; an inadequately secured lock nut allowed a screw to gradually turn, eventually leading to a 10 mm adjustment error that prevented complete retraction.\n\nThe Report identified several key reasons why the cockpit crew failed to adequately cope with this relatively minor technical malfunction of the landing gear, continuing the flight to engine failure due to fuel exhaustion.\n\nThe Report makes 14 recommendations for improvements in systems, documents and procedures to avoid such problems in future.\n\nHapag-Lloyd reported that the Captain Wolfgang Arminger voluntarily left the airline six months after the incident. In 2004, a Hannover district court convicted Captain Arminger of \"dangerous interference in the air traffic,\" saying he was \"endangering others' lives\" mainly by failing to divert to Zagreb, and gave him a six-month suspended prison sentence. The conviction was criticized by German court reporter Gisela Friedrichsen who thought the two court sessions of the main trial were not enough to present and evaluate all evidence.\n\nA report published in 2012 by the American Bar Association argues that airline safety is undermined by such prosecutions because its threat would impede the investigative processes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258469", "title": "Boomerang (1947 film)", "text": "Boomerang (1947 film)\n\nBoomerang! is a 1947 American crime film noir based on the true story of a vagrant who was accused of murder by an incompetent police force, only to be found not guilty through the efforts of the prosecutor. It stars Dana Andrews, Lee J. Cobb, Karl Malden, Arthur Kennedy and Jane Wyatt.\n\nThe film was directed by Elia Kazan, based on a 1945 story (written by Fulton Oursler, credited as \"Anthony Abbot\") in \"Reader's Digest\" and was shot largely in Stamford, Connecticut after Kazan was denied permission to film in Bridgeport, Connecticut, where the actual events occurred. This semidocumentary also contains voice-overs by Reed Hadley. The film was entered into the 1947 Cannes Film Festival.\n\nFather Lambert (Wyrley Birch), a priest, is shot dead on a Bridgeport, Connecticut street at night. The police, led by Chief Robinson (Lee J. Cobb), fail to immediately find the murderer. It soon becomes a political hot potato, with the police accused of incompetence, and the city's reform-minded administration comes under attack. Robinson and the prosecutor Henry Harvey (Dana Andrews) come under severe pressure by political leaders to find the killer or bring in outside help.\n\nAfter strenuous efforts yield nothing, a vagrant ex-serviceman, John Waldron (Arthur Kennedy), is apprehended and identified in a lineup. Pushed by politicians, the press, and the public, the police need someone to bring to trial. Waldron is interrogated for two days by police until, deprived of sleep, he confesses. The evidence seems solid, and a gun in his possession is believed to be the gun that was used in the shooting.\n\nHarvey, however, is not convinced. He questions Waldron, investigates the evidence and the witnesses. Harvey then risks his reputation and incurs the wrath of the police and the public in proposing that the defendant is innocent, while he and his wife (Jane Wyatt) are also being threatened by a businessman named Harris (Ed Begley). In court, even though he is the prosecutor, Harvey lays out the flaws in the case before the judge, and indicates he intends to dismiss the charges. The judge suspects Harvey's motives; Harvey's relationship with Chief Robinson is strained; and a mob unsuccessfully attempts to impose their own justice on Waldron.\n\nA sub-plot involving Paul Harris and a property under consideration for sale to the city—at a price Harris desperately needs to keep himself afloat—also has a prominent place in the film. Harris tries to blackmail Harvey by threatening to destroy his wife, a planning committee member, unless he supports the sale and sits idle, allowing Waldron to be convicted.\n\nAt a preliminary hearing, Harvey once again presents evidence that would lead to Waldron's exoneration. When a reporter gets wind of the double-dealing and threatens Harris with exposure, Harris commits suicide in the courtroom.\n\nThe film ends with a narration that the murder was never solved, and the real Henry Harvey was Homer Cummings who rose to the position of U.S. Attorney General.\n\n\nThe film is based on an actual murder case in Bridgeport, Connecticut in 1924. While walking near the Lyric Theatre in downtown Bridgeport, the Rev. Hubert Dahme (\"Father George Lambert\" in the film) was fatally shot behind the left ear by a gun fired at close range. Those in the theatre were so shocked that no one thought to call for an ambulance until 10 minutes had passed. Two hours later, the priest was pronounced dead at St. Vincent's Hospital in Bridgeport. A vagrant and discharged soldier, Harold Israel, was indicted for the murder. Israel confessed to the crime, and a .32 revolver was found in his possession that police believe was used in the murder. Fairfield County, Connecticut state's attorney Homer Cummings conducted a thorough investigation and found Israel innocent of the crime. Cummings (named \"Henry Harvey\" in the film) later became Attorney General of the United States under Franklin D. Roosevelt. The \"Morning Record\" was the name used in the film for the \"Bridgeport Post\" (now the \"Connecticut Post\").\n\nAlmost all of the film was shot in Stamford, Connecticut, except for the courtroom scene shot in White Plains, New York.\n\nStamford locations:\n\nThe movie premiered at the Palace Theatre in Stamford on March 5, 1947, with Kazan and Andrews in attendance. (Kazan later filmed \"Gentleman's Agreement\" which takes place in Darien, Connecticut, adjacent to Stamford, and which also included the actress Jane Wyatt.)\n\nWhen first released film critic Bosley Crowther discussed the filmmaking, writing the \"...style of presentation has resulted in a drama of rare clarity and punch.\"\n\nThe staff at \"Variety\" gave the film a positive review and wrote, \"\"Boomerang!\" is gripping, real-life melodrama, told in semi-documentary style. Lensing was done on location at Stamford, Conn, the locale adding to realism. Based on a still unsolved murder case in Bridgeport, Conn, plot is backed up with strong cast...All the leads have the stamp of authenticities. The dialog and situations further the factual technique. Lee J. Cobb shows up strongly as chief detective, harassed by press and politicians alike while trying to carry out his duties. Arthur Kennedy is great as the law's suspect.\"\n\nWins\n\nNominations\n\nThe film is recognized by American Film Institute in these lists:\n\n\"Boomerang!\" was dramatized as a half-hour radio play on the November 10, 1947 broadcast of \"The Screen Guild Theater\" with Dana Andrews and Jane Wyatt, on the January 14, 1949 broadcast of the Ford Theatre with Dana Andrews and lastly, on \"Hollywood Sound Stage\" with Tyrone Power and Jane Wyatt on February 28, 1952.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258471", "title": "Glenn Gordon Caron", "text": "Glenn Gordon Caron\n\nGlenn Gordon Caron (born April 3, 1954; sometimes credited as Glenn Caron) is an American television writer, director and producer, best known for the television series \"Moonlighting\" in the 1980s and \"Medium\" in the 2000s. He lives in Los Angeles, California.\n\nCaron was born to a Jewish family in Oceanside, New York. After graduating from the State University of New York at Geneseo in 1975, Caron studied with Del Close and The Second City in Chicago before working at an advertising agency. \n\nWhile at the ad agency he was invited by NBC to write a pilot for the network. The pilot did not receive a series order, but Caron's work impressed writer-producer James L. Brooks, who invited him to join the writing staff of \"Taxi\", although he only worked on one episode.\n\nCaron subsequently coproduced the first 12 episodes of \"Remington Steele\" (NBC, 1982-'87) before leaving to form his own company, Picturemaker Productions. Caron created \"Moonlighting\" (ABC, 1985-'89), a worldwide hit that revitalized the career of Cybill Shepherd and launched the career of Bruce Willis. Between its third and fourth seasons, Caron directed his first feature film, \"Clean and Sober\" (1988), starring Michael Keaton. He was fired by ABC from \"Moonlighting\" before the start of its fifth (and final) season, reportedly because Shepherd demanded it. Caron then directed three more feature films — \"Wilder Napalm\" (1993), starring Dennis Quaid and Debra Winger, and written by Vince Gilligan, who later created the AMC series \"Breaking Bad\"; the Warren Beatty-Annette Bening vehicle \"Love Affair\" (1994), a remake of the 1939 film of the same name; and \"Picture Perfect\" (1997), starring Jennifer Aniston — before returning to television in 1999 as the creator of the short-lived series \"Now and Again\" (CBS, 1999-2000). \n\nIn 2001 Fox ordered 13 episodes of the Caron-created romantic comedy \"Fling\". Seven episodes were shot, but the network became unhappy with the direction of the series during production and canceled it before any of those episodes could be broadcast. Four years later Caron created \"Medium\" for NBC. He also served as executive producer of the show, wrote several episodes and directed the series's pilot episode. It ran for seven seasons, with the last two airing on CBS.\n\nIn 2008 Caron wrote a pilot for CBS titled \"The Meant to Bes\", about a woman who dies only to find herself sent back to Earth to help people get their life back on track. However, it wasn't given a series order.\n\nIn 2013 Caron wrote a pilot for a proposed Fox series titled \"The Middle Man\". Set in the 1960s, a Boston FBI agent and his Irish-American informant take on the Italian-American mafia. Ben Affleck was attached to direct the pilot episode, but it was never filmed. The following year Fox ordered a pilot for \"The Cure\", a medical drama to be cowritten and coproduced by Caron and \"New Yorker\" writer Malcolm Gladwell, but it too was never filmed. Caron was also attached to write a pilot for ITV Studios in 2016 based on Alan Glynn's novel \"Paradime\".\n\nCaron wrote and produced episodes of the first and second seasons of the FX series \"Tyrant\", and in the spring of 2017 he joined CBS's \"Bull\" as a consulting producer before becoming the series's showrunner at the beginning of season two.\n\nGlenn Gordon Caron was the recipient of the 2007 Outstanding Television Writer Award at the Austin Film Festival. He was also nominated for four Primetime Emmy Awards for his work on \"Moonlighting\" between 1986 and '87 and won a Writers Guild of America award for his 1985 pilot script for \"Moonlighting\".\n\nGlenn Gordon Caron has been married to his second wife, Tina DiJoseph, since 2006; the couple has one child. Caron has three children from his first marriage. He is the founder-owner of Picturemaker Productions.\n\nOn December 19, 2018, \"The Boston Globe\" published an op-ed by actress Eliza Dushku in which she claimed she was fired by Caron from the CBS series \"Bull\" in 2017 after she confronted its star, Michael Weatherly, about sexually charged remarks he'd made to her while filming the final three episodes of the show's first season. Caron had been hired as a consulting producer for those three episodes prior to becoming \"Bull\"'s showrunner and an executive producer for season two; Dushku was also expected to join the series on a full-time basis in its second season. CBS paid her $9.5 million to settle her claims of wrongful dismissal and sexual harassment. Dushku signed a nondisclosure agreement as part of her settlement, but after news of the settlement leaked and Weatherly and Caron gave statements to \"The New York Times\" — \"The idea that our not exercising her option to join the series was in any way punitive just couldn't be further from the truth,\" said Caron — Dushku said she felt compelled to respond, writing, \"The narrative propagated by CBS, actor Michael Weatherly, and writer-producer Glenn Gordon Caron is deceptive and in no way fits with how they treated me on the set of the television show \"Bull\" and retaliated against me for simply asking to do my job without relentless sexual harassment.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2258477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258477", "title": "Swiss cottage, Cahir", "text": "Swiss cottage, Cahir\n\nThe Swiss Cottage is an early 19th-century \"cottage orné\" (ornamental cottage) located at Kilcommon near the town of Cahir, County Tipperary in Ireland. It is managed by the Office of Public Works and open to the public as a tourist attraction.\n\nThe Swiss cottage was built around 1810 and is a noted example of a \"cottage orné\", or ornamental cottage. Its design is attributed to the English Regency architect John Nash, who also designed a number of other buildings in Cahir.\n\nOriginally part of the estate of Lord and Lady Cahir, the \"fantasy\" cottage was used for entertaining guests. The then estate owner and Lord Cahir (later Viscount Cahir) was Richard Butler, 1st Earl of Glengall and 10th Baron Cahir (1775–1819), who married Emily Jeffereys from Blarney Castle in 1793.\n\nAfter some years of neglect, restoration of the cottage started in 1985. The restoration was overseen by a partnership of the Irish Georgian Society, the Port Royal Foundation and Sybil Connolly. The Swiss cottage opened to the public as a historic house museum in 1989.\n\nLaid out in a T-shaped plan, the cottage has three bays to the front, timber-work verandas on several sides, and an ornate thatched roof. Its interior includes a parquet floor and timber spiral staircase, with some rooms containing original wallpapers attributed to Joseph Dufour and company; reputedly among \"the first commercially produced Parisian wallpaper\".\n\nSimilar buildings exist elsewhere in Ireland at Burrenwood (County Down), Derrymore (County Armagh), and Glengarriff (County Cork). As with the earlier Petit hameau de la Reine at Versailles in France, these picturesque cottages were popular with gentry in the early 19th century as places to \"play at being peasants\" and to entertain guests.\n\n\"Milady Cahir\" is referred to by Napoleon's Josephine in connection with the Château de Malmaison.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258482", "title": "Pineau des Charentes", "text": "Pineau des Charentes\n\nPineau des Charentes, (Pineau Charentais, or simply Pineau) is a regional French aperitif, made in the départements of Charente, Charente-Maritime and, to a much lesser extent, Dordogne in western France. While popular within the region of production, it is less well known in other regions of France and somewhat uncommon abroad.\n\nIt is a fortified wine (mistelle or vin de liqueur), made from either fresh, unfermented grape juice or a blend of lightly fermented grape must, to which a Cognac eau-de-vie is added and then matured.\n\nPineau is also found as a home-made product in the neighbouring Deux-Sèvres and Vendée départements. There is also a similar drink called \"Troussepinette\" that is made in the Vendée, which is often flavoured with pine or fruits such as pear. Elsewhere in France analogous drinks are made (Macvin in Jura, Floc de Gascogne in the Armagnac area; there is also Pommeau, similarly made by blending apple juice and apple brandy), but these products are much less well known nationally and internationally than Pineau.\n\nAccording to legend, during the harvest of 1589, a winemaker accidentally added grape must into a barrel that he believed was empty but in fact contained eau de vie. The mixture was duly returned to the cellars for fermentation. A few years later, the barrel was retrieved and was found to contain the drink that is now associated with the region of Charente. In 1921, a winemaker from Burie (Charente-Maritime), Emile Daud and P&C, commercialised the drink.\n\nThe dominant white variety of pineau is made using the grapes Ugni blanc, Folle blanche and Colombard, with occasional Sémillon, Sauvignon blanc and Montils. The mixture is aged for at least 18 months, including a minimum of 8 months in oak barrels. It is typically two years old when bottled.\n\nThe resulting drink is between 16 and 22% ABV (but in commercial practice nearly always 17%) and is traditionally a deep gold in color, but colors and qualities vary from vineyard to vineyard, depending on the lie of the land, the soil composition and the grape used. The taste is predominantly sweet, but is balanced by both acidity and the increased level of alcohol.\n\nFiner varieties are aged for over 5 years in barrel, and often for several decades. After 5 years, it is called \"vieux pineau\", and if barrel aged for more than 10 years, \"très vieux pineau\". Très vieux pineau is more of a rarity, given its more stringent quality and maturation standards. Normandin-Mercier is a Cognac house known for producing a fine, long-lived example of très vieux pineau. Before these age designations can be used on the label, an examining commission must certify both the duration of aging and the finished product.\n\nThe red and rosé varieties, very popular locally, are made from the grapes Cabernet Franc, Cabernet Sauvignon, and Merlot, and are aged for at least 14 months, including a minimum of 8 months in oak barrels. The finished drink is again between 16 and 22% ABV (usually 17%) and varies between a deep mahogany brown colour and a very dark pink.\n\nThe annual production of pineau is around 14,000,000 litres. Around 80% of this is made in the Charente-Maritime département.\nIts production is controlled under the Appellation d'Origine Contrôlée 'vin de liqueur' classification, though it is not a wine in the ordinary sense. In principle the same producer grows the grapes, makes the wine and distills it into brandy, presses the fresh grape juice and then blends and matures the result. The geographical zone authorized for the production of Pineau des Charentes AOC is practically identical with that for Cognac, and in fact many of the artisanal producers of pineau (numbering several hundred) also sell their own Cognac.\n\nWhen a good harvest is expected, the best grapes may be picked by hand, however most producers harvest most of their crop mechanically. Very strict rules and formulae for the ratios of brandy and fresh grape juice are followed by each vintner and the process is even more tightly controlled for organic producers. The year of the pineau depends on the year of the eau de vie and not on the grape juice, as the juice must be freshly squeezed from freshly picked grapes – literally squeezed and mixed the same day as harvesting.\n\nThe act of mixing the eau de vie with the fresh grape juice is referred to as \"assemblage\", assembly or blending. It stops the fermentation of the grape must through a process called \"mutage\".\n\nAn increasing number of vineyards in the area now produce and sell pineau in which both the grape juice and the brandy come from organically-grown grapes. Their products have certification.\n\nLike other fortified wines such as Sherry, Pineau des Charentes does not benefit from aging. However, storing unopened bottles away from sources of light will do no harm to the wine, although bottles should be stored upright to reduce the exposed surface area. Once opened, Pineau des Charentes will keep for some time in the refrigerator.\n\nPineau des Charentes should be served chilled (8–10 °C) in a tulip-shaped glass such as a sherry glass. The taper of this type of glass better enhances the aroma of the wine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258488", "title": "Dark Water (short story collection)", "text": "Dark Water (short story collection)\n\nDark Water is the English title of a collection of short stories by Koji Suzuki, originally published in Japan as Honogurai mizu no soko kara (Kanji: 仄暗い水の底から; literally, \"From the Depths of Dark Waters\"). The book was first published in 1996, and released in 2004 in English translation.\n\nThe collection contains seven stories, and an extra plotline forming the prologue and epilogue.\n\n\nSuzuki is concerned with the atrocities committed by humans themselves rather than by otherworldly forces. There are themes of urban decay, family troubles and domestic abuse running throughout the stories. The characters themselves are often selfish, cruel and self-absorbed. Suzuki uses these characters to explore emotions such as rage, fear and longing. His stories often take as their theme life after the Japanese asset price bubble burst, as they were written shortly afterwards.\n\nThe one thing that all the stories have in common is the repeated use of water imagery. Many of the events take place at sea, but even the land-based plotlines have a connection to water. In \"Watercolors\", for instance, the characters are plagued by water dripping through their ceiling. While its generally believed that water drips through the ceiling in \"Floating water\", this is not true; this was just an element put into the films.\n\n is a manga version of Koji Suzuki's book \"Dark Water\" from 2002, illustrated by Meimu. Just like the book, it's a collection of short horror stories linked to water.\n"}
{"id": "2258492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258492", "title": "Jean LeClerc (actor)", "text": "Jean LeClerc (actor)\n\nJean LeClerc (born July 7, 1948, in Montreal, Quebec) is a Québécois actor. In the original French, his name is spelled Jean Leclerc. He is best known for his work in the United States as Jeremy Hunter on the American daytime soap operas \"All My Children\" and \"Loving\" in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nLeClerc first started his career in Quebec on the television series \"Les Belles Histoires des pays d'en haut\". Roles in Québécois movies followed, culminating in his first English-speaking role in the 1976 Canadian film, \"Strange Shadows in an Empty Room\". That same year, he acted in a television miniseries about the life of Sarah Bernhardt, playing the role of Bernhardt's husband Jacques Damala, and the following year he played a film director in the horror anthology film \"The Uncanny\". LeClerc moved to the United States in 1982, playing the part of a French doctor on the soap opera \"The Doctors\". He played similar roles on \"The Edge of Night\" and \"As the World Turns\" before being offered the role of American Jeremy Hunter in 1985.\n\nIn 1991, LeClerc and his \"All My Children\" costar Genie Francis made an extended appearance on another ABC soap opera \"Loving\" for the November sweeps period in an effort to boost the show's ratings. LeClerc left \"All My Children\" in 1992 to join \"Loving\" full-time until his character was killed off in 1995. In 2001, LeClerc briefly reappeared on \"All My Children\", with his character Jeremy appearing as a ghost.\n\nLeClerc most recently appeared in a \"Patty Duke Show\" television reunion special and in the 2005 film \"Idole instantanée\".\n\nLeClerc also appeared on Broadway as the title character in a production of \"Dracula\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2258503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258503", "title": "Félix María de Samaniego", "text": "Félix María de Samaniego\n\nFélix María de Samaniego (October 12, 1745 – August 11, 1801), was a Spanish neoclassical fabulist.\n\nHe was born and died in Laguardia, Álava, in the Basque Country, and was educated at Valladolid. A government appointment was secured for him by his uncle the Count de Peñaflorida.\n\nHis \"Fábulas\" (1781–1784), one hundred and fifty-seven in number, were originally written for the boys educated in the school founded by the Biscayan Society. In the first installment of his fables he admitted that he had taken Tomás Iriarte for his model, a statement which proves that he had read Iriarte's fables in manuscript; he appears, however, to have resented their publication in 1782, and this led to a rancorous controversy between the former friends. Samaniego, however, was highly original in the matters of quiet humour and careless grace, and his popularity kept on growing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258505", "title": "WNOL-TV", "text": "WNOL-TV\n\nWNOL-TV, virtual channel 38 (UHF digital channel 15), is a CW-affiliated television station licensed to New Orleans, Louisiana, United States. The station is owned by Nexstar Media Group, as part of a duopoly with ABC affiliate WGNO (channel 26). The two stations share studios at The Galleria on Galleria Drive (just south of I-10) in Metairie; WNOL-TV's transmitter is located on East Josephine Street in Chalmette. There is no separate website for WNOL-TV; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WGNO.\n\nOn cable, WNOL-TV is available on Cox Communications and AT&T U-verse channel 13.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on March 25, 1984. It was the second independent station to sign on in the New Orleans' market, after eventual sister station WGNO, which signed on the air in October 1967; the station maintained a general entertainment format, running a variety of cartoons, sitcoms, older movies, drama series and religious programs (many of which were formerly carried by WGNO). The station's original slogan, \"Don't Stay Home Without Us,\" was an homage to the popular American Express advertising campaign featuring Karl Malden.\n\nIn 1985, the station was sold to the TVX Broadcast Group. In July of that year, WNOL became the first commercial station in New Orleans (second station after PBS member WYES-TV) to begin stereo broadcasts. WNOL, as with TVX's other television stations, became a charter affiliate of Fox when the network launched on October 6, 1986. (The station's schedule continued to represent more of an independent station as Fox's lone series at that time was a late night talk show, and they wouldn't start a full seven days of programming until 1993.) Reportedly, WGNO passed on the Fox affiliation; after that occurred, TVX used WNOL as leverage to get Fox to sign a deal to affiliate with the majority of the company's independent stations. TVX acquired Taft Broadcasting's independent and Fox-affiliated stations in 1987. Subsequently, the following year, TVX began selling off many of its television stations; in 1989, TVX sold WNOL to Qwest Broadcasting, a company owned by minority investors led by musician Quincy Jones. In addition to Fox network programming, WNOL continued to offer cartoons, sitcoms, movies and drama series on its schedule into the 1990s.\n\nIn March 1994, Fox entered into a partnership with minority-owned communications firm Savoy Pictures (which would serve as majority partner) to form SF Broadcasting. On August 25 of that year, SF Broadcasting announced that it would acquire three television stations from Burnham Broadcasting—among them, New Orleans's longtime ABC affiliate WVUE (channel 8)—adding those stations alongside a fourth Burnham station that SF had acquired two months earlier in a separate deal. As part of the deal, WVUE and the three other acquired stations (WLUK-TV in Green Bay, KHON-TV in Honolulu and WALA-TV in Mobile) would switch their respective network affiliations from ABC (on WVUE) and NBC (on the three other stations) to Fox beginning in the fall of 1995. The Fox affiliation moved to WVUE on January 1, 1996; unlike the \"Big Three\" affiliates that switched to Fox through a similar deal between the network and New World Communications, WVUE and the other former Burnham stations also carried the Fox Kids weekday and Saturday blocks. The switch spawned a three-way affiliation swap in the market as WNOL joined The WB, a network that had been carried from the network's launch in January 1995 on WGNO (the result of that station's ownership by network part-owner Tribune Broadcasting)—which in turn picked up the ABC affiliation from WVUE. WNOL also acquired select cartoons and other syndicated programs that were previously part of WGNO's programming inventory. As the 1990s progressed, WNOL began to decrease its reliance on classic sitcoms, and gradually added more talk and reality series for the station's daytime schedule. After Fox picked up the rights to air NFL games in 1994, channel 38, via the NFL on Fox, succeeded WWL-TV as the New Orleans Saints' station of record; it only served in this role for the 1994 and 1995 seasons; in 1996, WVUE-TV took over this role.\n\nWGNO's owner Tribune Broadcasting, which held a minority ownership interest in The WB, entered into a local marketing agreement to operate WNOL in 1996; Tribune purchased the station outright in 2000, following the company's merger with Qwest, creating the first television duopoly in the New Orleans market between WNOL and WGNO. Along with other similarly formatted stations, WNOL began to scale back on carrying cartoons (such as \"The Wacky World of Tex Avery\") beginning in 2000. Cartoons on the station were eventually relegated to weekends only, when The WB discontinued the Kids' WB weekday afternoon block in December 2005, leaving its existing Saturday morning block.\n\nWhen Hurricane Katrina hit the New Orleans metropolitan area on August 29, 2005, the storm destroyed the transmitter facilities of both WNOL and WGNO. The two stations set up temporary analog transmitter facilities from a multi-purpose tower in Algiers; WGNO and WNOL also partnered with i: Independent Television affiliate (now Ion Television owned-and-operated station) WPXL-TV (channel 49) to transmit its digital signals as separate subchannels on that station. On March 29, 2008, WNOL began transmitting its digital signal from a new tower in Metairie, broadcasting on UHF channel 15, ending the relay of both stations on WPXL. Tribune management decided that since it elected to relocate WGNO's digital signal to its analog-era UHF channel 26 when most full-power stations switched to digital-only transmissions in 2009, that it would instead flash-cut WGNO's digital signal on the air upon the transition and instead carry WGNO's digital signal as a digital subchannel of WNOL in the interim.\n\nFrom March 29, 2008 to June 12, 2009, WNOL's digital signal was divided into a high definition feed for WGNO on digital channel 15.1 (mapped to virtual channel 26.1) that transmitted in ABC's recommended 720p resolution format, while WNOL's digital feed transmitted in 480i standard definition on digital channel 15.2 (mapped as virtual channel 38.1); Cox Communications continued to carry an HD feed of WNOL (presented in 1080i) via a fiber optic connection over the provider's HD tier to allow high definition broadcasts of CW network programming to continue in some form. When WGNO's analog signal was shut down on June 12, 2009, that station moved its programming to its newly separate digital channel on UHF 26, allowing WNOL to resume broadcasting HD programming in 1080i for the first time since August 2005.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, Time Warner and CBS Corporation announced that the two companies would launch The CW, a network developed as a joint venture between the two companies that initially featured a mix of programming from both The WB and UPN (the latter of which was acquired by CBS less than a month before the merger announcement on December 31, 2005, after its split from Viacom was finalized). The network signed a ten-year affiliation agreement with Tribune Broadcasting to affiliate with 16 of the 19 WB-affiliated stations that the company owned at the time, with WNOL being named as the New Orleans affiliate of the network. Channel 38 became a charter affiliate of The CW when the network commenced operations on September 18, 2006. UPN affiliate WUPL (channel 54), which was owned by CBS at the time (it is now owned by Tegna), became an affiliate of MyNetworkTV, a competing network developed by the Fox Television Stations and Twentieth Television subsidiaries of News Corporation.\n\nUnusual for a duopoly, even after Tribune acquired WNOL, its operations remained separate from WGNO; the station continued to be based at a facility located on Canal Street. In February 2007, Tribune announced that rather than move WGNO to WNOL's facility, that channel 26 would instead move to The Galleria building in nearby Metairie. As a result, WNOL merged its operations with WGNO within its studio space at the Galleria.\n\nOn April 1, 2012, Tribune Broadcasting removed all WNOL, WGNO, and its then 21 other television stations from satellite provider DirecTV due to a carriage dispute over an increase in payments to transmit the stations' signals. DirecTV signed a new carriage agreement with Tribune on April 4, 2012, restoring both stations as well as the other Tribune-owned stations on DirecTV.\n\nOn May 8, 2017, Hunt Valley, Maryland-based Sinclair Broadcast Group announced that it would acquire Tribune Media for $3.9 billion, plus the assumption of $2.7 billion in debt held by Tribune. Had the deal received regulatory approval by the FCC and the U.S. Department of Justice's Antitrust Division, the acquisition of WNOL-TV and WGNO would have marked Sinclair's entry into Louisiana (the virtual duopolies of fellow ABC affiliate WEAR-TV and NBC affiliate WPMI-TV in the Pensacola, Florida–Mobile, Alabama market and Fox affiliate KBTV-TV and CBS affiliate KFDM in the Beaumont–Port Arthur market are the closest existing Sinclair properties to New Orleans).\n\nOn July 18, 2018, hours after Sinclair submitted a revision to the acquisition proposal that rescinded plans for WGN-TV and CW-affiliated sisters KDAF in Dallas-Fort Worth and KIAH in Houston to be sold to closely tied third-party companies—WGN-TV LLC and Cunningham Broadcasting, respectively—in order to address concerns expressed by FCC chairman Ajit Pai concerning the partner licensees Sinclair proposed using to allow it to operate certain Tribune stations in circumvention of the 39% national ownership cap, the FCC Commissioners' Board voted unanimously, 4-0, to send the Sinclair-Tribune acquisition proposal to an evidentiary review hearing before an administrative law judge amid \"serious concerns\" about Sinclair's forthrightness in its applications to sell certain stations in markets where Sinclair and Tribune both had television properties. On August 9, 2018, Tribune announced it would terminate the Sinclair deal, and concurrently filed a breach of contract lawsuit in the Delaware Chancery Court, alleging that Sinclair engaged in protracted negotiations with the FCC and the DOJ over regulatory issues, refused to sell stations in markets where it already had properties, and proposed divestitures to parties with ties to Sinclair executive chair David D. Smith that were rejected or highly subject to rejection to maintain control over stations it was required to sell.\n\nOn December 3, 2018, Irving, Texas-based Nexstar Media Group announced it would acquire Tribune's assets for $6.4 billion in cash and debt. The deal—which would make Nexstar the largest television station operator by total number of stations upon its expected closure late in the third quarter of 2019—would give the WGNO/WNOL duopoly additional sister stations in Baton Rouge (Fox affiliate WGMB-TV, CW affiliate WBRL-CD, independent station KZUP-CD and NBC-affiliated SSA partner WVLA-TV), Alexandria (Natchez, Mississippi-licensed Fox affiliate WNTZ-TV) and Lafayette (CBS affiliate KLFY-TV). Factoring in Nexstar's existing properties in Shreveport (NBC affiliate KTAL-TV and SSA partners KMSS-TV [Fox] and KSHV-TV [MyNetworkTV]) and Monroe (Fox affiliate KARD and NBC-affiliated SSA partner KTVE), the combined company would have television stations in every media market within the state of Louisiana, except for Lake Charles, as a result. The sale was approved by the FCC on September 16 and was completed on September 19, 2019.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWNOL shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 38, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 15. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 38. As previously mentioned, the station upgraded its feed from 480i standard definition to 1080i high definition with the transition and the relocation of WGNO to a separate digital channel.\n\nSyndicated programs broadcast by WNOL-TV include \"Jerry Springer\", \"How I Met Your Mother\", \"Family Guy\", \"Seinfeld\", and \"Modern Family\". Occasionally as time permits, WNOL may take on the responsibility of airing ABC network programs when WGNO is unable to in the event of extended breaking news or severe weather coverage.\n\nWNOL airs the CW network's prime time schedule on a one-hour tape delay (airing it from 8:00 to 10:00 p.m., instead of the recommended 7:00 to 9:00 p.m. slot for the network's Central Time Zone affiliates). This scheduling was implemented on June 7, 2007 following the cancellation of the WGNO-produced 9:00 p.m. newscast; syndicated programs instead fill the 7:00 p.m. hour (sister stations KWGN-TV in Denver and KPLR-TV in St. Louis also air The CW's prime time schedule in this manner; however unlike WNOL, both stations air local newscasts as lead-ins to the lineup).\n\nSister station WGNO began producing a half-hour prime time newscast at 9:00 p.m. for WNOL-TV on May 1, 2006; the weeknight-only newscast competed against a longer established hour-long in-house newscast on Fox affiliate WVUE-DT (channel 8), and gained a competitor in June 2007, when WUPL began airing a half-hour prime time newscast produced by WWL-TV (channel 4) in that timeslot. The program suffered from dismal ratings, which resulted in the cancellation of the newscast after a four-year run; the program aired for the last time on June 4, 2010.\n\nAs a result of the newscast's cancellation, WNOL is currently one of only two Tribune-owned television stations that do not carry daily newscasts (alongside WCCT/Hartford–New Haven). Although WGNO no longer produces a newscast for WNOL, channel 38 continues to carry other local programs produced by WGNO; the station airs rebroadcasts of WGNO's business program \"NOLA Marketplace\" seven days a week and that station's public affairs program \"The 411\" on Sunday mornings (two hours after its original 6:30 a.m. broadcast on channel 26).\n\n"}
{"id": "2258506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258506", "title": "Maghan I", "text": "Maghan I\n\nMaghan I was a mansa of the Mali Empire, following his father Kankan Musa I's death in 1337. Aside from legendary founder Sundiata, Kankan Musa I is generally regarded as the most successful of the Malian emperors, and Maghan inherited the empire at the height of its glory. He reigned for only four years before being succeeded by his uncle Suleyman in 1341. \n\n"}
{"id": "2258507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258507", "title": "Albuquerque (song)", "text": "Albuquerque (song)\n\n\"Albuquerque\" is the last song of \"Weird Al\" Yankovic's \"Running with Scissors\" album. At 11 minutes and 22 seconds, it is the longest song Yankovic has ever released on any of his official studio albums.\n\nWith the exception of the choruses and occasional bridges, the track is mostly a spoken word narration about Yankovic's made-up life in Albuquerque, New Mexico, after winning a first-class one-way airplane ticket to the city. According to Yankovic, the song is in the style of the \"hard-driving rock narrative\" of artists like The Rugburns, Mojo Nixon and George Thorogood.\n\nYankovic set off to write the lengthy song, considering it as a final track for \"Running with Scissors\". The long meandering story was not expected to be popular and instead Yankovic wanted to compose a song \"that's just going to annoy people for 12 minutes\", making it feel like an \"odyssey\" for the listener after making it through to the end. Yankovic described writing the song as \"free flowing,\" writing down a great deal of material he thought would be funny including previous anecdotes he had recorded, and trimming it down to form a lengthy \"semi-cohesive story.\" The lyrics were too long to include in the liner notes for the album (it ends mid-sentence and goes into a written apology by Yankovic), though full lyrics were posted to Yankovic's website.\n\nThe song starts by Al talking about his childhood with a paranoid mother who force-feeds him sauerkraut until he reaches age \"twenty-six and a half\". One day while listening to the radio, he hears about a contest in which contestants \"guess the number of molecules on Leonard Nimoy's butt\". He wins the contest, only being off by three. The grand prize is a first class one-way ticket to Albuquerque.\n\nDuring the flight, three of the engines burn out, causing the plane to crash and explode, killing everyone on board except him. He finds himself crawling, while carrying all of his belongings, until he reaches his destination.\n\nHe checks into a hotel, taking his time to relax until someone knocks. Although he asks multiple times who it is, he receives no answer. When he finally opens the door himself, he's greeted by a \"big, fat hermaphrodite with a Flock of Seagulls haircut and only one nostril\", who rushes in and grabs his prized possession: his lucky snorkel. The two engage in a fight, only for the man to escape with his snorkel. He vows to stop at nothing until the mysterious man gets what he deserves, but then decides to buy some doughnuts first.\n\nUpon driving to the local doughnut shop, he finds that they have run out of almost everything except for a box of crazed weasels. He purchases the box, only for the weasels inside to latch on and bite his face. As he runs around town screaming for help, he runs into a woman named Zelda, who points out the weasels on his face.\n\nThe two fall in love, marry, buy a house, and have children. One night, after Zelda asks him about joining the Columbia Record Club, he freaks out due to his fear of commitment and they break up, never to see each other again.\n\nShortly afterwards he gets his dream job at the Sizzler and makes employee of the month when extinguishing a grease fire using his own face. He then tells an anecdote about the time he spotted his Sizzler co-worker Marty trying to carry a big couch up a flight of stairs. He asks if Marty needs help, to which Marty replies sarcastically, \"No, I want you to cut off my arms and legs with a chainsaw.\" Taking Marty literally, Al complies. Marty then points out that his remark was not serious, but Al questions how he was supposed to know.\n\nThis reminds him of yet another incident in which a man tells him he \"hasn't had a bite in three days\". He responds by biting his jugular vein, but believes he \"just can't take a joke\" when he doesn't laugh.\n\nAt this point, Al loses his train of thought, and reveals that the point he was attempting to make was his hatred for sauerkraut. He ends the song by attempting to give advice to the listener, claiming that no matter how hard life is, there's \"still a little place called Albuquerque\".\n\nAt the end of the song (around 11:20, after the music ends), faint laughter can be heard in the background. As Yankovic says, \"That's Jim West laughing - I thought it would be a good way to end the album. He's cracking up because of the stupid chord he played at the end of the song.\"\n\nContrary to Yankovic's belief that the song would not be popular, it was one of the best-received songs from the album, and Yankovic incorporated the song as an encore to his tours. When performing this song live, Yankovic has been known to extend the song, by listing off more types of doughnuts, including blueberry, strawberry, raspberry, boysenberry, loganberry, gooseberry, Halle Berry, old-fashioned doughnuts and Nanaimo bars (when performing in British Columbia), as well as Saskatoon berry donuts (when performing in Saskatchewan); listing more names \"Zelda\" calls Yankovic; not telling the \"amusing anecdote\" at first; and even starting the song over completely after he \"loses his train of thought.\" When performing this song live in Canada, Al is known to replace the dream job at Sizzler with one at Tim Hortons, a Canadian doughnut shop. During the guitar solo of the third chorus, Yankovic sometimes introduces West eagerly, but West plays \"Mary Had a Little Lamb\" instead of the real solo. Yankovic acts disappointed, and West walks away acting ashamed.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258509", "title": "Stardock Central", "text": "Stardock Central\n\nStardock Central was a software content delivery and digital rights management system used by Stardock customers to access components of the Object Desktop, TotalGaming.net and ThinkDesk product lines, as well as products under the WinCustomize brand.\n\nIntroduced in 2001 to access games on TotalGaming.net (then known as the \"Drengin Network\"), Stardock Central was later expanded to cover all Stardock products, replacing \"Component Manager\" (1999).\n\nAs of 2010, Stardock Central had been phased out in favour of its successor, Impulse. However, in March 2011 Impulse was sold to GameStop and Stardock soon reopened their own online store. As of April 2012, the Stardock Central software has been revived and released as a Beta to once again provide a proprietary platform for Stardock's digital product downloads.\n\nSoftware on Stardock Central was divided into components, and further divided into packages. When users purchased a product or a subscription, they gained access to it via Stardock Central. The program had the ability to break products into components so that users on slower connections could start using the main portion of the software as soon as possible, and download extras — such as in-game movies or music — at a later date.\n\nTo cater for the various frequent updates provided for many products, once a package has been downloaded and installed Stardock Central only downloaded updated files for new versions. A product archiving and restore function was available to back up components and to allow their transfer to other computers. Users could also use the program to interact on Stardock's discussion boards or access the Stardock IRC server via a built-in IRC client. WinCustomize subscribers could use the \"Skins and Themes\" section to browse and download the WinCustomize library.\n\nStardock Central was similar in concept to the later-developed Steam content delivery system; unlike Steam, it did not require a permanent connection to the Internet, only being required when a user wanted to install or update a product (or when needed for its chatting, content libraries, or forum support).\n\nWhile Stardock Central started development in 2001, it got its biggest test in March 2003 when \"Galactic Civilizations\" was launched simultaneously at retail and online — the first commercial PC game to debut in both venues at once. Those who had purchased Galactic Civilizations at retail could also enter their serial number and download updates to the game. In 2004, Stardock Central began to deliver third party content as well such as games from Take 2, Strategy First, and Ubisoft. \"The Political Machine\" was released in 2004, and in 2005, TotalGaming.net \"phase 2\" was released, adding over a dozen new third-party games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258515", "title": "Kim B. Clark", "text": "Kim B. Clark\n\nKim Bryce Clark (born March 20, 1949) is an American scholar, educator, and religious leader who has been a general authority of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) since April 2015, and the church's seventeenth Commissioner of Church Education since August 2015. He served previously as the 15th president of Brigham Young University–Idaho from 2005 to 2015, and as the dean of the Harvard Business School (HBS) from 1995 to 2005, where he was also the George F. Baker Professor of Business Administration.\n\nKim B. Clark was born on March 20, 1949, in Salt Lake City, Utah. He and his family lived in Salt Lake City until 1960, when his father's new job required them to move to Spokane, Washington. Clark matriculated at Harvard University in 1967 as a pre-med major and left after his freshman year to serve as a missionary for the LDS Church in Germany. Following his mission, Clark enrolled for a time at Brigham Young University. In 1971, he resumed his studies at Harvard, where he received B.A. (1974), MA (1977), and Ph.D. (1978) degrees in economics.\n\nClark joined the Harvard faculty in 1978 and served as Dean of the HBS from 1995 to 2005.\n\nAs a professor at the HBS, Clark's research focused on modularity in design and the integration of technology and competition in industry evolution, particularly within the computer industry. He has published several articles in the Harvard Business Review and peer-reviewed academic journals. A few of his papers were co-authored with former HBS associate dean and former BYU-Hawaii president Steven C. Wheelwright.\n\nIn 2005, Clark left the HBS when LDS Church president Gordon B. Hinckley appointed him president of BYU–Idaho.\n\nOn January 27, 2015, it was announced that effective April 13, 2015, Clark would be succeeded by Clark Gilbert as the president of BYU–Idaho.\n\nClark has served in various assignments in the LDS Church, including bishop, scoutmaster, elders quorum president, Sunday School teacher, and counselor in a stake mission presidency. From 2007 to 2014, Clark served as an area seventy in the church's Idaho Area. On April 4, 2015, Clark was sustained as a member of the First Quorum of the Seventy. On August 1, 2015, he succeeded Paul V. Johnson as the Commissioner of Church Education. He was designated as an emeritus general authority in October 2019.\n\nClark and his wife, Sue, have seven children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258516", "title": "When I Fall in Love", "text": "When I Fall in Love\n\n\"When I Fall in Love\" is a popular song, written by Victor Young (music) and Edward Heyman (lyrics). It was introduced in the film \"One Minute to Zero\". Jeri Southern sang on the first recording released in April 1952 with the song's composer, Victor Young, handling the arranging and conducting duties. The song has become a standard, with many artists recording it; the first hit version was sung by Doris Day released in July 1952.\n\nDay's recording was made on June 5, 1952. It was released by Columbia Records as catalog number 39786 and issued with the flip side \"Take Me in Your Arms\". The song reached number 20 on the \"Billboard\" chart.\n\nA 1996 cover by Natalie Cole, a \"duet\" with her father Nat King Cole by way of vocals from his 1956 cover, won 1996 Grammys for Best Pop Collaboration with Vocals and Best Instrumental Arrangement with Accompanying Vocal(s).\n\n\nThe version by Rick Astley was released on November 30, 1987, coinciding with the 30th anniversary of the release of Nat King Cole's version of the song. This single is mainly remembered for a closely fought contest for UK Christmas number one. Rivals EMI hoping to see their act, Pet Shop Boys, reach number one, re-released the version by Nat King Cole. This led to a slow down of purchases of Astley's version, allowing Pet Shop Boys to reach the coveted top spot. Despite selling over 250,000 copies and gaining a Silver certification from the BPI, it peaked in the UK at number 2 for two weeks. The re-release by Nat King Cole reached number 4. Since the single was released as a double A-side, the other half of the single was \"My Arms Keep Missing You\", which was successful in its own right in Europe.\n\nThe cover version of \"When I Fall in Love\" by Celine Dion and Clive Griffin was featured in the romantic comedy \"Sleepless in Seattle\" and released as a single in July 1993. The song was recorded expressly for the soundtrack and was originally intended as a duet between Dion and Stevie Wonder, but according to Dion when she heard the demo performed by Warren Wiebe she preferred that would be her duet with Wiebe. It was nominated for a Grammy Award for Best Pop Performance by a Duo or Group with Vocal in 1994, and won a Grammy Award for Best Instrumental Arrangement Accompanying Vocalist(s). The award went to David Foster and Jeremy Lubbock. The song appears on both, the \"Sleepless in Seattle\" soundtrack (number one on the \"Billboard\" 200 and 4x Platinum RIAA certification for selling over 4 million copies in the US), and later on Dion's album \"The Colour of My Love\", released in November 1993. The music video was directed by Dominic Orlando in Hollywood, Los Angeles.\n\nAllMusic senior editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine noted that Dion's album, \"The Colour of My Love\", which featured the song, had \"careful production, professional songwriting (highlighted by \"When I Fall in Love,\" \"The Power of Love,\" and \"Think Twice\"). \"The Baltimore Sun\" wrote that \"it's no accident that Celine Dion keeps recording all those movie-theme duets -- she's got the perfect voice for wide-screen romance, all unbridled power and telegraphed emotion.\" They added that she \"sounds great\" when working with \"tunefully romantic stuff\" like \"When I Fall In Love\"\". Larry Flick from \"Billboard\" wrote that Dion \"is at home within an arrangement of delicate rhythms and sweeping orchestration.\" He also noted that Griffin's voice \"is a pure thrill.\" Christopher Smith from TalkAboutPopMusic said that Dion and Griffin \"do credible justice to Nat’s signature tune as she remains in subdued and romantic mood for the entire length\" of the song.\n\n\"When I Fall in Love\" reached top 40 in a few countries, including number 22 in New Zealand, number 23 in the United States, and number 37 in the Netherlands. It was popular on the US Hot Adult Contemporary Tracks, peaking at number 6.\n\nIn 1998, Anne Murray performed \"When I Fall in Love\" with Dion live and included it on her DVD called \"An Intimate Evening with Anne Murray...Live\". Later, this version appeared on Murray's 2007 album \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258521", "title": "Stretford End", "text": "Stretford End\n\nThe Stretford End, previously known simply as the West Stand, is a stand at Old Trafford, the stadium of Manchester United Football Club, It takes its name from nearby Stretford. The stand is divided into two tiers and, in common with the rest of the stadium, has a cantilever roof.\n\nIn the days before all-seater stadia, the Stretford End was the main standing area of the ground, accommodating around 20,000 fans. The last game played in front of the terrace was the final game of the 1991–92 season, a 3–1 win over Tottenham Hotspur on 2 May 1992.\n\nThe terrace was demolished during the 1992 close-season and replaced with a £10 million all-seater cantilever stand by the end of the 1992–93 season, giving Old Trafford an all-seater stadium to comply with the Taylor Report (which required all Premier League and Division One clubs to have all-seater stadia by the start of the 1994–95 season), and its name was officially changed to \"West Stand\", although it is still often referred to as the Stretford End and even has white seats spelling the name out.\n\nThe redevelopment of the Stretford End was first proposed in the summer of 1989 when chairman Martin Edwards was proposing to sell the club and was willing to sell his shares for £10 million and pledge £10 million to any new owner for the redevelopment of the Stretford End; however, the proposed sale of the club to Michael Knighton fell through and Edwards remained the club's owner for well over a decade afterwards.\n\nFor the 2000–01 season, a second tier of seating was added. As well as hosting a number of executive boxes, the first tier of the West Stand is now partly taken up by the family seating area. At the corner with the South Stand is the players' tunnel.\n\nOnly Denis Law (in the 1960s) and Eric Cantona (in the 1990s) have reached the status of \"King of the Stretford End\" among the United faithful, the former for his formidable goal record and the latter for his charisma and aura.\n\nFollowing Manchester United's ending of its sponsorship deal with Vodafone, the name of the next sponsor, AIG, was not displayed in the seats. The 'Nike Swoosh' was relocated to the East Stand and the words \"Stretford End\" were spelled out with white seats in the West Stand.\n\nThe Stretford End has a statue of Denis Law on the upper concourse, which was unveiled on 23 September 2002. Law was known as the \"King of the Stretford End\" as he was idolised by the End's faithful.\n"}
{"id": "2258544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258544", "title": "Kassa (mansa)", "text": "Kassa (mansa)\n\nMansa Camba, also known as Mansa Kassa, briefly acted as mansa of the Mali Empire in 1360. Nephew of the powerful Mansa Kankan Musa I and son of Mansa Suleyman and his principal wife Kassi, Kassa assumed the throne following his father's 1360 death. He was succeeded the same year by Mansa Maghan's son Mari Diata II. Tesfaun Kassa.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258545", "title": "Dwayne Washington (basketball)", "text": "Dwayne Washington (basketball)\n\nDwayne Alonzo \"Pearl\" Washington (January 6, 1964 – April 20, 2016) was an American college and professional basketball player. He was a , guard.\n\nWashington grew up in the Brownsville section of the New York City borough of Brooklyn, where he acquired his nickname as an eight-year-old in a taunting comparison to Earl \"the Pearl\" Monroe. He was a playground phenomenon from Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn, and was rated as the number one overall high school player in the United States in 1983. He brought his flashy play to Syracuse University and the Carrier Dome. \"The Pearl\" was the master of the \"shake and bake\", in which he would leave his defensive opposition standing still while he drove by them for a layup.\n\nWashington was drafted by the New Jersey Nets in the first round (13th pick) of the 1986 NBA draft. In two seasons with the Nets he averaged 9 points per game. In 1988 the Miami Heat selected him in their expansion draft. He played 54 games for the Heat before being released. Following his release, Washington played for the Rapid City Thrillers and San Jose Jammers in the Continental Basketball Association.\n\nWashington had surgery on August 27, 2015, at Crouse Hospital in Syracuse to address a malignant brain tumor. He died of cancer on April 20, 2016, at the age of 52.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258546", "title": "Edward Stanley, 6th Baron Stanley of Alderley", "text": "Edward Stanley, 6th Baron Stanley of Alderley\n\nEdward John Stanley, 6th Baron Sheffield, 6th Baron Stanley of Alderley and 5th Baron Eddisbury (9 October 1907 – 3 March 1971) was a British peer.\n\nHe was the son of the Arthur Stanley, 5th Baron Stanley of Alderley (1875–1931) and Margaret Evelyn Gordon (1875–1964). He was educated at Eton and Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nLord Stanley oversaw the loss of the family's ancestral estate at Alderley Park. With a fondness for gambling, wine and marriage, he had to pay for four divorce settlements, and death duties, even at pre-war levels, for both the 4th and 5th Barons. When the mansion at Alderley Park was destroyed by fire in 1931 he moved into the former farmhouse. When he sold the estate in 1938 to the property developers Hambling Crundall and Co Ltd., many of his older tenants were forced to leave the village.\n\nHe had four wives:\n\nHe and Victoria had one daughter, The Hon. Edwina Maureen Stanley (born 19 January 1933). On his death in 1971, his brother Lyulph Stanley succeeded to his titles, albeit only briefly.\n"}
{"id": "2258547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258547", "title": "Tetrapyrrole", "text": "Tetrapyrrole\n\nTetrapyrroles are a class of chemical compounds that contain four pyrrole or pyrrole-like rings. The pyrrole/pyrrole derivatives are linked by (=- or -- units), in either a linear or a cyclic fashion. Pyrroles are a five-atom ring with four carbon atoms and one nitrogen atom. Tetrapyrroles are common cofactors in biochemistry and their biosynthesis and degradation feature prominently in the chemistry of life.\n\nSome tetrapyrroles form the active core of compounds with crucial biochemical roles in living systems, such as hemoglobin and chlorophyll. In these two molecules, in particular, the pyrrole macrocycle ring frames a metal atom, that forms a coordination compound with the pyrroles and plays a central role in the biochemical function of those molecules.\n\nLinear tetrapyrroles (called bilanes) include:\nCyclic tetrapyrroles having four one-carbon bridges include:\nCyclic tetrapyrroles having three one-carbon bridges and one direct bond between the pyrroles include:\nThe tetrapyrrole portions of the molecules typically act as chromophores because of a high degree of conjugation in them. Therefore, these compounds are commonly colored.\n"}
{"id": "2258550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258550", "title": "Suleyman (mansa)", "text": "Suleyman (mansa)\n\nSuleyman Keita was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1341 to 1360. The brother of the powerful Kankan Musa I, he succeeded Musa's son Maghan to the throne in 1341. His son Kassa briefly assumed the throne following his death in 1360, but was succeeded the same year by Maghan's son Mari Diata II.\n\nMoroccan historian Ibn Battuta traveled to Timbuktu to visit Suleyman's court for a period of eight months in 1352–1353. While there, Ibn Battuta recorded a substantial description of life at the court, including complaints about Suleyman's miserliness, a sharp contrast to Suleyman's famously generous brother Mansa Musa. This miserliness may have been due to the Black death having arrived in Africa and killing 30-50% of inhabitants, according to a 2017 William & Mary University study.\n\nSuleyman's principal wife was Kassi; his rejection of her led to a revolt within the court.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258557", "title": "List of psychotherapies", "text": "List of psychotherapies\n\nThis is an alphabetical list of psychotherapies.\n\nSee the main article psychotherapy for a description of what psychotherapy is and how it developed (see also counseling, and the list of counseling topics).\n\nThis list contains some approaches that may not call themselves a psychotherapy but have a similar aim, of improving mental health and well being through talk and other means of communication.\n\nIn the 20th century, a great number of psychotherapies were created. All of these face continuous change in popularity, methods and effectiveness. Sometimes they are self-administered, either individually, in pairs, small groups or larger groups. However, a professional practitioner will usually use a combination of therapies and approaches, often in a team treatment process that involves reading/talking/reporting to other professional practitioners.\n\nThe older established therapies usually have a code of ethics, professional associations, training programs, and so on. The newer and innovative therapies may not yet have established these structures or may not wish to.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258558", "title": "WUPL", "text": "WUPL\n\nWUPL, virtual channel 54 (UHF digital channel 17), is a MyNetworkTV-affiliated television station serving New Orleans, Louisiana, United States that is licensed to Slidell. The station is owned by Tegna Inc., as part of a duopoly with New Orleans-licensed CBS affiliate WWL-TV (channel 4). The two stations share studios on Rampart Street in the historic French Quarter district and transmitter facilities on Cooper Road in Terrytown, Louisiana. There is no separate website for WUPL; instead, it is integrated with that of sister station WWL-TV.\n\nOn cable, WUPL is available on Cox Communications channel 2 and Charter Spectrum channel 16.\n\nThe station first signed on the air on June 1, 1995, as an affiliate of the United Paramount Network (UPN). It was owned by Texas broadcaster Larry Safir via his company, Middle America Communications. Safir also owned Univision affiliate KNVO in the Rio Grande Valley. Prior to the station's sign-on, WHNO (channel 20) was approached by UPN for an affiliation, though WHNO's owner LeSEA Broadcasting declined all netlet offers on their stations through the country, as the programming planned for both UPN and competitor The WB conflicted with the company's core programming values; as a result, programming from UPN, which launched on January 16, 1995, was only available on New Orleans-area cable and satellite providers through New York City-based national superstation WWOR for the 5½ months prior to WUPL's debut. Along with programming from UPN, the station ran a general entertainment format, offering vintage off-network sitcoms, talk shows, court shows and other syndicated programs. In 1996, Safir entered a deal with Cox Enterprises to take over operations of the station, and in 1997, he sold the station to the Paramount Stations Group subsidiary of Viacom; as a result, WUPL became a UPN owned-and-operated station (Viacom launched UPN in a programming partnership with Chris-Craft Industries/United Television, and acquired a 50% interest in the network from Chris-Craft/United in 1996).\n\nViacom merged with CBS in 2000. Despite Viacom's ownership of WUPL, the market's CBS affiliation remained on WWL-TV (channel 4), the highest-rated television station in New Orleans and CBS' strongest affiliate for over 20 years. Viacom briefly considered buying WWL-TV, in which it would create a duopoly with WUPL. However, after Belo Corporation turned down Viacom's offer to buy the station, Viacom decided instead to sell WUPL to Belo in July 2005 for $14.5 million.\n\nOn January 24, 2006, Time Warner and CBS Corporation (the latter of which took over WUPL and UPN after Viacom split into two companies one month earlier) announced that both companies would partner to launch The CW, which would replace The WB and UPN; the network, which debuted on September 18, 2006, would feature a mix of programs carried over from its two predecessor networks as well as newer series. The day of the announcement of the network's formation, Tribune Broadcasting signed a ten-year agreement to affiliate the network with 16 of the group's 19 WB affiliates; as a result, WNOL-TV (channel 38) was announced as The CW's New Orleans affiliate.\n\nThree weeks later, on February 9, CBS filed a lawsuit against Belo Corporation over the failure to finalize the sale of WUPL to Belo. The deal was slated to close by the end of 2005, but was placed on hold when Hurricane Katrina devastated the New Orleans metropolitan area in late August of that year. Though the lawsuit provided some doubt as to its future affiliation, on July 12, 2006, it was announced that WUPL would become an affiliate of MyNetworkTV. Since News Corporation owns Fox and MyNetworkTV, CBS originally relented on allowing any of its UPN affiliates to affiliate with the new network because The CW did not affiliate with any of News Corporation's UPN stations (CBS and Time Warner instead chose Tribune and CBS Television Stations as The CW's core station groups, with Tribune getting affiliations in the three largest markets of New York City, Los Angeles and Chicago among other markets, along with Tribune's WNOL-TV in New Orleans).\n\nOn February 26, 2007, Belo announced that it would go forward with the purchase of WUPL from CBS. A Belo press release also said the sale—which had already received FCC approval—\"settles litigation between Belo and CBS over the purchase that arose after Hurricane Katrina.\" At that time, Belo closed on WUPL, and later acquired its low-power repeater, WBXN-CA (channel 18; previously a separate station, K10NG, affiliated with The Box and later MTV2) on April 20, 2007. Before then, WUPL was one of two television stations in New Orleans at the time that whose ownership held interest in a major network (the other was former WB affiliate WNOL-TV, owned by that network's part-owner, the Tribune Company), and the only one to be a network owned-and-operated station.\n\nIn mid-April 2007, Belo moved WUPL's operations into WWL-TV's facility on Rampart Street. On June 13, 2013, the Gannett Company announced that it would acquire Belo for $1.5 billion. The sale was completed on December 23.\n\nOn June 29, 2015, the Gannett Company split in two, with one side specializing in print media and the other side specializing in broadcast and digital media. WWL and WUPL were retained by the latter company, named Tegna. As of the start of April 2018, WUPL now has a similar logo to that of WWL's, due to Tegna's company-wide redesign of its graphical imaging, and the MyNetworkTV branding is completely played down, bringing it in line with Tegna's other two MyNetworkTV affiliates.\n\nThe station's digital channel is multiplexed:\nWUPL added MundoMax to its second digital subchannel in 2014 and Heroes and Icons to its third subchannel in 2015. When MundoMax went dark on November 30, 2016, WUPL duplicated its main feed on its second subchannel until the addition of the newly-launched Quest network in late January 2018.\n\nWUPL shut down its analog signal, over UHF channel 54, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal continued to broadcast on its pre-transition UHF channel 24. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 54, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition.\n\nThe station carries high definition programming in the 1080i resolution format rather than in 720p, MyNetworkTV's default HD resolution format, as WWL (and the majority of the former Belo stations, regardless of network affiliation) carries its HD programming in the 1080i format.\n\nOutside of the MyNetworkTV schedule, syndicated programs broadcast by WUPL include \"Mike & Molly\", \"2 Broke Girls\", \"Hot Bench\", and \"Family Feud\". Occasionally as time permits, WUPL may air CBS network programs whenever WWL-TV is unable to in the event of extended breaking news or severe weather coverage.\n\nIn January 2005, WUPL began carrying CBS' morning program \"The Early Show\" in lieu of WWL-TV, which pre-empted the program in the late 1980s in favor of running an extended weekday morning newscast (which as of 2014, runs for 4½ hours); WUPL also carried the syndicated morning news and talk program \"The Daily Buzz\" until 2012, pairing that program and CBS' morning news programs under the umbrella brand \"My Morning News\". WUPL subsequently picked up \"CBS This Morning\" when that program replaced \"The Early Show\" in January 2012 (WWL-TV, however, carried that program's Saturday edition as the station didn't air local newscasts on weekend mornings at the time). However, this changed on December 5, 2016, as WWL picked up \"CBS This Morning\" for the entire two hours (likely due to a corporate mandate from Tegna in order to satisfy their CBS affiliation agreements), while WUPL now carries the 7–9 a.m. block of \"Eyewitness Morning News\" (it also now simulcasts all 4 1/2 hours of the newscast).\n\nWWL-TV began producing a half-hour primetime newscast at 9:00 p.m. for WUPL on June 4, 2007. Titled \"My54 Eyewitness News at 9\", it competed against WVUE (channel 8)'s longer established and hour-long in-house newscast as well as a WGNO (channel 26)-produced half-hour primetime newscast on CW affiliate WNOL-TV. The newscast featured the same anchor team as that seen on \"Eyewitness News Nightwatch\", WWL-TV's 10:00 p.m. newscast. Unlike the 9:00 p.m. newscast on WVUE, the WUPL newscast aired only on Monday through Friday evenings. The WNOL newscast was cancelled after the June 4, 2010 edition due to dismal ratings; by that time, the WWL-produced newscast on WUPL had passed the WNOL newscast at a distant second in the timeslot, behind WVUE. In September 2010, WWL-TV began broadcasting its newscasts in widescreen standard definition; the WUPL newscast was included in the upgrade.\nThe WWL-produced 9:00 p.m. newscast ended its run on WUPL after the April 26, 2013 edition, having been canceled due to consistently low ratings; three days later on April 29, the program was replaced by \"The 504\", a pre-recorded interview show originally hosted by WWL-TV weekday morning co-anchor Melanie Herbert (the program is currently hosted by Sheba Turk, also a WWL weekday morning co-anchor). Newscasts returned to WUPL on September 9, 2014, with the debut of a half-hour weeknight 6:30 p.m. newscast produced by WWL.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258562", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Freetown", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Freetown\n\nThe Archdiocese of Freetown (\"Archidioecesis Liberae Urbis\") is a Roman Catholic diocese in Sierra Leone. It is centred on the city of Freetown, the capital and most populous city of the African country of Sierra Leone.\n\nIt was established as the \"Vicariate Apostolic\" of Sierra Leone, on 13 April 1858 by Pope Pius IX, taking territory from the Vicariate Apostolic of Two Guineas and Senegambia. It itself lost territory in 1897 to the Prefecture Apostolic of Guinea Francese and in 1903 to the Prefecture Apostolic of Liberia.\n\nThe vicariate was elevated to the status of a diocese, taking the name of \"Freetown and Bo\" on 18 April 1950. In 1952, the Prefecture Apostolic of Makeni was split off from its territory. The diocese was elevated to an archdiocese on 11 November 1970, at which time also the diocese of Kenema was split off.\n\nOn 15 January 2011, the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bo was split off the \"Archdiocese of Freetown and Bo\" which is called Archdiocese of Freetown since then.\n\nThe diocese covers an area of , around the Sierra Leone capital city of Freetown.\n\nThe archidiocese has three suffragan dioceses, those of Bo, Kenema and Makeni.\n\nThe cathedral of the Freetown archdiocese is the Sacred Heart Cathedral, also sometimes called simply the Cathedral of Freetown. The cathedral is located in the Howe street of the town of Freetown.\n\nWork on its construction began in November 1884 and was dedicated on October 27, 1887. The Sacred Heart Cathedral follows the Roman rite.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258564", "title": "Body drag", "text": "Body drag\n\nBody drag is the name given to a freestyle trick performed by a windsurfer. The trick involves the rider travelling across the water at high speed and stepping off the board and on to the water while still holding on to the boom which is connected to the sail.\n\nThe result should be that the rider's lower body \"drags\" over the water's surface at speed along with the board and sail. A skilled rider is able to step back onto the board and continue sailing.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258573", "title": "Mari Djata II of Mali", "text": "Mari Djata II of Mali\n\nMari Diata II was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1360 to 1374.\n\nSon of Mansa Maghan, he assumed the throne following the brief 1360 reign of Mansa Kankan Musa I's nephew Kassa. Tunisian historian Ibn Khaldun records that Mari Diata II was remembered as a tyrant, increasing the tax burden on his people to finance \"debauchery and follies of all kinds.\" This may have been an unfair assessment of the monarch by his populace due to the black death and his attempts to stop its spread.\n\nMari Diata was succeeded by his sons Musa II (1374–1387) and Magha II (1387–1389).\n\n"}
{"id": "2258575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258575", "title": "Icklesham", "text": "Icklesham\n\nIcklesham is a village and civil parish in the Rother district of East Sussex, England. The village is located about six miles (10 km) east of Hastings, on the main A259 Hastings to Rye road.\n\nThe civil parish is large, and includes Icklesham itself, Winchelsea, Winchelsea Beach and Rye Harbour.\n\nIcklesham's historic roots can be traced back to 772, when it appeared as \"Icoleshamme\" in a land charter signed by Offa, King of Mercia. Strategically located on the River Brede, it was a prime target in the Norman invasion of 1066 (some 700 years later, evacuation plans were prepared in case of an invasion by Napoleon). The 12th-century parish church is dedicated to St Nicholas.\n\nOn Hogs Hill stands an old windmill, used as a recording studio by Sir Paul McCartney. All Saints church was restored by architect Samuel Sanders Teulon in the late 1840s.\n\nThe parish contains three Sites of Special Scientific Interest—Winchelsea Cutting, \"Dungeness, Romney Marsh and Rye Bay\" and Rye Harbour. Winchelsea Cutting is a roadside cutting with of exposed geological strata. Dungeness, Romney Marsh and Rye is a large site of , lying along the coast, and extending into the neighbouring county of Kent. Its interest is biological and geological, with various habitats of shingle, saltmarsh, sand dunes and saline lagoons. Rye Harbour is another site of biological importance, with a varied habitat of shingle, intertidal mudflats and saltmarsh.\n\nA sandstone circle is located to the east of the parish church in a field by the main A259 road. It was constructed in approximately 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258577", "title": "Hallenstadion", "text": "Hallenstadion\n\nThe Hallenstadion (, \"Zürich Indoor Stadium\") is a multi-purpose facility located in the quarter of Oerlikon in northern Zürich. It is home to the ZSC Lions of the National League (NL) and has a capacity of 11,200 spectators. Designed by Bruno Giacometti, it opened on November 4, 1939, and was renovated in 2004–05.\n\nThe Lions are set to move out of the Hallenstadion at the end of the 2021/22 season to move in a new 12,000-seat arena a few kilometers away in the Altstetten area. Construction for the new Swiss Life Arena officially began on 6 March 2019, with completion scheduled for the summer of 2022.\n\nHallenstadion has been a top venue for entertainment in Switzerland as many international artists have performed at the venue, spanning a wide range of genres.\n\nBicycle race events were held in the Hallenstadion in its first year of service, 1939, and most years since then. The classic \"Zürcher 6-Tagerennen\" (Zürich 6-day race) began there in 1954, running on its characteristic oval of wooden boards, until the arena closed temporarily for renovation in 2004. The event is run there again now, in a more modern atmosphere.\n\nThe Hallenstadion hosted the Ice Hockey World Championships in 1998, along with Basel, and is the home stadium of the ZSC Lions ice hockey team. In February 2006, it hosted semi-finals and the final of the 2006 European Men's Handball Championship.\n\nIt had been the home of the annual Zürich Open, a WTA Tour tennis tournament that was discontinued after 25 years in 2008. On 21 December 2010, tennis returned to the arena with an exhibition featuring Roger Federer against Rafael Nadal, for the benefit of Federer's foundation.\n\nOn September 29, 2009, the Hallenstadion hosted the 2009 Victoria Cup. The game pit the NHL's Chicago Blackhawks against the Champions Hockey League title-holder, the Zurich Lions.\n\nIn April 2011, the 2011 IIHF Women's World Championship top division are being held at Hallenstadion ice rink hockey arena and at Deutweg rink (in Winterthur).\n\nAmong many others, in August 2005 the 14th Dalai Lama gave several teachings and initiations as well as a public talk on \"The Art of Happiness\" open for everyone within 10 days.\n\nThe 61st FIFA Congress was held at the Hallenstadion on 31 May and 1 June 2011, and the 65th FIFA Congress was held there on 28 May and 29 May 2015. The 2016 FIFA Extraordinary Congress took place at the venue on 26 February 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258587", "title": "Musa II of Mali", "text": "Musa II of Mali\n\nMusa II was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1374 to 1387.\n\nMusa II took the throne following the death of his father, Mansa Mari Diata II.\nHe was succeeded by his brother Maghan II.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258592", "title": "Front loop", "text": "Front loop\n\nFront loop is the name given to a trick performed by a windsurfer (also known as a forward loop) whereby the rider performs a jump from a wave face and forces the sail, board and rider to perform a forward somersault in one motion. In its basic form, the rider's hands maintain their position on the boom and the rider's feet maintain their position on the board. Some consider the forward loop to be one of the harder intermediate moves to learn as it goes against most learned reactions whilst sailing.\n\nThe rotational motion occurs when the center of resistance is removed by jumping the board off the water and the center of effort of the sail has been moved forward of the system's center of mass\n\nFront loops may be initiated, unhooked, from close-hauled through broad-reach points of sail, with ease of initiation often determined by wave-face rather than wind direction.\n\nTo properly position the center of effort, the rider typically moves their body from a windward sailing position to a position toward the back and centerline of the board. The forward leg will often be straightened—the rear leg bent. To achieve this position, the sail will have been sheeted out slightly during the motion. The rider's rear hand will often move further back on the boom to assist in proper placement of center of effort and sheeting-in later.\n\nNext, the board is jumped from the water, by straightening the rear leg, with the nose of the board commonly 45 degrees higher than the tail as it leaves the water. To assist rotation, and depending upon the desired initiation time of the rotation of the loop, the board may be carved (turned) downwind as it is jumped, and the bottom surface may be tilted about a longitudinal axis to expose it to the wind.\n\nTo prepare for maximum speed of rotation, the rider next moves the center of effort of the sail as far away from their center of mass as possible. Starting with the sail held close to the body, the sail is moved (in its current plane) to windward until the forward arm is extended. This motion is most easily accomplished prior to sheeting-in. For maximum extension, the torso may be arched toward the mast as well. \n\nWhen the rider wishes to initiate center of effort rotation, the sail is sheeted in. Some feel that looking at the clew at this point assists rotation.\n\nThe axis of rotation determines whether the maneuver is a forward-loop, spin-loop, or cheese-roll. Other variations depend upon the \"ramp\" from which the rider performs the maneuver, with large wave faces allowing double or triple-loops and accomplished \"loopers\" performing spin-loops off of flat water.\n\nA double forward is an innovation of this move, it involves two full rotations of board and sail in the air.\n\nVariations include:\n\nLearning to do a front loop may have more perceived than actual risks. With the axis of rotation nearly vertical, the rider's hands remaining on the boom, and the board heading downwind at initiation, there is little danger of landing on the equipment. While learning, it is possible to tear top, monofilm panels of a sail without X-Ply if the front of the mast drives hard into the water during the rotation.\n\nLanding incorrectly from higher loops can break the board in half.\nAlso if the Sailer does not angle the sail enough for the rotation he or she could lands on their side and could blow out their ear drum .\n\nThe double forward was made famous by Robert Teriitehau and perfected by Ricardo Campello. It is now a commonly performed move in competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258600", "title": "List of artists and art institutions in Portland, Oregon", "text": "List of artists and art institutions in Portland, Oregon\n\nThe following is a partial list of institutions and individuals who are and active in the art scene of Portland, Oregon.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258601", "title": "Maghan II", "text": "Maghan II\n\nMaghan II was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1387 to 1389. He was the son of Mansa Mari Diata II and the brother of Mansa Musa II.\n\nTunisian historian Ibn Khaldun records that Maghan II succeeded his brother to the throne in 1387, but reigned for only two years before his throne was usurped by Sandaki in 1389.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258610", "title": "FMRFamide", "text": "FMRFamide\n\nFMRFamide (H-Phe-Met-Arg-Phe-NH2) is a neuropeptide from a broad family of FMRFamide-related peptides (FaRPs) all sharing an -RFamide sequence at their C-terminus. First identified in Hard clam (\"Mercenaria mercenaria\"), it is thought to play an important role in cardiac activity regulation. Several FMRFamied related peptides are known, regulating various cellular functions and possessing pharmacological actions, such as anti-opiate effects. In \"Mercenaria mercenaria\", FMRFamide has been isolated and demonstrated to increase both the force and frequency of the heartbeat through a biochemical pathway that is thought to involve the increase of cytoplasmic cAMP in the ventricular region.\n\nFMRFamide is an important neuropeptide in several phyla such as Insecta, Nematoda, Mollusca, and Annelida. \nIt is the most abundant neuropeptide in endocrine cells of insect alimentary tracts along with allatostatin and tachykinin families, however the neuropeptide’s function is not known. Generally, the neuropeptide is encoded by several genes such as flp-1 through flp-22 in C. elegans. The common precursor of the FaRPs is modified to yield many different neuropeptides all having the same FMRFamide sequence. Moreover, these peptides are not functionally redundant.\n\nIn invertebrates, the FMRFamide-related peptides are known to affect heart rate, blood pressure, gut motility, feeding behaviour and reproduction. In vertebrates such as mice, they are known to affect opioid receptors resulting in elicitation of naloxone-sensitive antinociception and reduction of morphine-induced antinociception.\n\nDetection of this neuropeptide is important because its expression lays down the foundation of the CNS in the early stages of development in invertebrates. In recent years, neuromodulatory actions of FMRFamide in invertebrates have become more apparent. This is, in part, due to the extensive studies done on the Planorbid and Lymnaeid families of pond snails.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258618", "title": "Canton, Cardiff", "text": "Canton, Cardiff\n\nCanton () is an inner-city district and community in the west of Cardiff, capital of Wales, lying west of the city's civic centre. Canton is one of the most ethnically diverse of Cardiff's suburbs, with a significant Pakistani and Indian population. The total population of Canton increased to 14,304 at the 2011 census. It is also the most Welsh-speaking district of central Cardiff, with 19.1% of the population speaking Welsh.\nThe name (from \"St. Canna's Town\") refers to the 6th-century female saint after whom Pontcanna is also named. Canton, also known as Treganna (\"tref\" town + Saint Canna), was a 13th-century manor in Llandaff. It became part of Victorian era Cardiff in 1875.\n\nCanton, or Treganna in the Welsh language, was formed around a 13th-century Manor in Cardiff and assumed lands from nearby Llandaff and Leckwith parishes under the stewardship of an Earl (or Baron) de Kanetune, although today the manor comes under the jurisdiction of the Manor of Llandaff. It is believed that Canton is named after St Canna, the holy matron in the Celtic age of Saints, and Canna herself is reputed to have been a relative of King Arthur\n\nIn 1215, a parishioner called Lucia de Kanetune is recorded as occupying a field ‘near the Earl's wall’. In 1230, a man named as Walter de Canetune is named in the Cardiff charter, and signed the charter, obviously as a resident of quite high status. In 1262, a doctor or ‘Physicus’ called Nicholas de Kanetone gave evidence in a legal dispute between the Abbeys of Margam and St. Peter's, Gloucester. In 1290, Richard de Canetone is recorded as a witness on the new Cardiff charter. Also in 1290 (Cartae 1 page 294) records:\n\nFrom around 1250, for several hundred years Canton Cross was the site of the largest and most significant trading market in the South Wales area. The market was open daily except Sundays on the extensive Canton common lands at the junction where Llandaff Road and Leckwith Road now cross Cowbridge Road East, opposite where the Canton Cross Vaults public house still stands.\n\nGoods, including all manner of fresh food stuffs, live animals and household items were brought from all over Cardiff and the South Wales Valleys to be traded at the market. Items that were to be exported were then transported or herded to the docks at Cardiff, Penarth and Swanbridge. Imports of fresh foods and tradeable goods were also brought to the market from those ports.\n\nIn the year 1450, stewardship of the Manor of Caneton is recorded as having been granted to Sir David ap Mathew, Lord of Llandaff manor but a resident of Radyr.\n\nIn 1853 St. Johns, Canton was completed and opened as a local chapel annexe of nearby Llandaff Cathedral. From around 1840, Halket Street, Canton, became home to many Irish families, indeed Canton was the recognised centre of Cardiff's increasing Irish community, most of whom were fleeing the potato famines in their own country and seeking work and housing in the ports of Liverpool and Cardiff. In 1870 the large Atlas Engineering works was built in Canton and opened its doors, creating many new skilled jobs in the area.\n\nThe independent hamlet of Canton was incorporated as a district of the City of Cardiff by charter in 1875. Included in Canton was Pwll-coch, which had previously been considered part of Ely.\n\nIn 1899, the Manor House was recorded as still standing, on the west side of Canton Common but it was in a poor condition and in danger of falling down. At that time it was under the occupation of a Mr. Richard Williams, but there is no record of when the Manor House was eventually demolished.\n\nThe extensive common lands at Ely Common were already in the process of being converted into a municipal recreation ground called Victoria Park and new housing by the city council in 1899. The market near Canton Cross, which by then had wound down to a weekly cattle market, had been relocated to lands that now house Cantonian High School in adjacent Fairwater. The market yard and rows of stables would be full of the farmers’ carts and traps from all over the Vale of Glamorgan. The market dealt with sheep and pigs as well as cattle and the market buildings also included a slaughterhouse, so the animals could be butchered on site ready for transporting to the many butchers shops all over Cardiff. The market's tram depot and stabling was also next to Severn Road Council School, trams ran on rails with overhead electric power from the depot and Victoria Park to the city centre and on to other locations in Cardiff from 1902, until they were replaced by Cardiff's electric trolleybuses in 1950. The traditional Canton Cross common land now has Cardiff City FC's Cardiff City Stadium football ground and Cardiff International Sports Stadium built on it, with the last remnant of the medieval market represented only by Bessemer Road fruit market. In recent years many commercial car dealerships have moved into the area.\n\nCanton has long been recognised as one of the most multi-cultural areas of Cardiff since the vast influx of Irish immigrants in the mid 19th century and today houses a significant and thriving Asian population such as Pakistanis and Indians.\n\nThe main road through the district is Cowbridge Road East, a busy thoroughfare with many shops as well as pubs and restaurants and independent retailers. Canton is home to Thompson's Park and Victoria Park, to the education centre Llanover Hall, and to the Chapter Arts Centre, which is housed in the former buildings of Canton High School.\n\nThough the area has strong working-class roots, many artists and young professionals have found the proximity to the city centre and the number of arts venues and pubs an attraction, which has resulted in gentrification and a bohemian feel.\n\nIn 2016, work started to redevelop the old Arjo Wiggins Teape Paper Mill site, on the other side of the mainline railway. Eight hundred houses were expected to be completed, with the 'urban village' being marketed as The Mill.\n\nThe main road running through the heart of Canton is Cowbridge Road East, which is served by many bus services. The following bus services all run through Canton:\n\n\nCowbridge Road East links the area with Culverhouse Cross, Ely, Caerau, Cardiff and Fairwater to the west and the city centre to the east.\n\nCanton is served by Waun-Gron Park railway station in the west and Ninian Park railway station in south which are both on the Cardiff City Line between Central and Radyr railway stations.\n\nCardiff Canton TMD is home to the main depot of Transport for Wales.\n\nIn the 2011 census it was recorded that 2,625 or 19.1% of Canton residents (over 3 years old) could speak Welsh. This was a significant increase on the figures for the 2001 census, which were 1,964 and 15.6%. Canton has two Welsh-medium primary schools, Ysgol Gymraeg Pwll Coch and Ysgol Gymraeg Treganna, and one Welsh-language place of worship: Salem (Presbyterian Church of Wales) on Market Road (founded 1856, current building built in 1910). The current Cardiff Chinese Christian Church on Llandaff Road was originally a Welsh-language baptist chapel (opened 1853), but the language of the services was changed to English in the late nineteenth century.\n\nSchools include Lansdowne Primary School, Radnor Primary School, Ysgol Gymraeg Pwll Coch, Ysgol Gymraeg Treganna, and Fitzalan High School. It also has the large Canton Library.\n\nCanton Rugby Football Club is a rugby union team from the district of Canton, Cardiff, South Wales (established 1877). The club play their home games at Lawrenny Avenue, off Leckwith Road, Cardiff. It is a member of the Welsh Rugby Union and is a feeder for the Cardiff Blues.\nCanton RFC was founded and commenced playing in 1876 and was one of three clubs that founded the Cardiff & District Union. Only Canton RFC remain from the three teams that played within the Canton boundary during this time. The original ground was located at Alexandra Park, using the Boar's Head as the club headquarters (both on Leckwith Road). The teams of the 1880s provided a steady supply of players to Cardiff RFC, some of whom gained international caps for Wales.\n\nCanton Rangers Football Club now in its 20th anniversary is Affiliated to the South Wales Football Association since 1999. The FAW Silver accredited club operates Mini, Junior, Youth and Senior football teams from Under 5s through to Adults who play their games in the Cardiff and District Football League. The club also operates a Senior men's team who play in the South Wales Alliance Division. The club has won a number of League and Cup competitions across a range of different age groups. In May 2015 the club won the Welsh Community Football Award for Club of the Year for South Wales, then winning FAW Community Club of the year for Wales in May 2016.\n\nCanton Liberal FC also reside from the Canton Area. The Liberal's were formed in 2006 and are affiliated to the South Wales Football Association. The Club since their formation have risen through the welsh pyramid system. The Senior 1st Team sit one promotion away from the Newly Formed Welsh Football League and play their home games at the Cardiff International Sports Campus as the host community club associated with the facility. The Senior Reserve side play their games within the Cardiff & District Football League.\n\nCanton is both an electoral ward, and a community of the City of Cardiff. There is no community council for the area. The electoral ward of Canton is located in the constituency of Cardiff West. It is bounded by Fairwater and Llandaff to the north; Riverside and Grangetown to the east; the Vale of Glamorgan to the south; and Caerau and Ely to the west.\n\nCanton Ward is represented by three County Councillors on Cardiff County Council. Since Cardiff became a unitary authority in 1996 Canton has been represented by Labour Councillors. Currently they are Stephen Cunnah, Susan Elsmore and Ramesh Patel. They hold an advice surgery every Saturday morning (except in August) at Canton Library, Library Street from 10.00 - 11.00am.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258619", "title": "Kilwa District", "text": "Kilwa District\n\nKilwa is one of the five districts of the Lindi Region of Tanzania. It is bordered to the north by the Pwani Region, to the east by the Indian Ocean, to the south by the Lindi Rural District and to the west by the Liwale District. The district includes the historical sites of Kilwa Kisiwani and Songo Mnara which are part of the World Heritage and the former main town of Kilwa Kivinje.\n\nAccording to the 2002 Tanzania National Census, the population of the Kilwa District was 171,850. \n\nRecent (2003 through to at least 2007) developments in the area include the development of a significant natural gas field underlying the Songo Songo Island group in the Indian Ocean, and continuing efforts to locate hydrocarbon reserves (oil and/or gas) along structural trends around the Songo Songo group at least as far north as the island of Nyuni. These researches have not been completed.\nThese developments have already made the district economically important, and as industries are developed along the pipeline route, this level of economic importance is expected to be increased, even if the other hydrocarbon searches are unsuccessful.\n\nThe Kilwa District is administratively divided into 23 wards:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258621", "title": "Eugene C. Pulliam", "text": "Eugene C. Pulliam\n\nEugene Collins Pulliam (May 3, 1889 – June 23, 1975) was an American newspaper publisher and businessman who was the founder and president of Central Newspapers Inc., a media holding company. During his sixty-three years as newspaper publisher, Pulliam acquired forty-six newspapers across the United States. Major holdings of Central Newspapers, which he founded in 1934, included the \"Indianapolis Star\", the \"Indianapolis News\", the \"Arizona Republic\", and the \"Phoenix Gazette\", as well as newspaper in smaller cities in Indiana, Arizona, and other states. Pulliam's early career included work as a reporter for the \"Kansas City Star\" and as editor and publisher of the \"Atchison (Kansas) Daily Champion\". Prior to 1960 Pulliam also operated radio stations WAOV and WIRE in Indiana and KTAR in Arizona. The Kansas native, a graduate from DePauw University in 1910, founded the \"DePauw Daily\", an independent student newspaper, and in 1909 was one of ten DePauw students who cofounded Sigma Delta Chi, a journalism fraternity that was later renamed the Society of Professional Journalists. In August 2000, the Gannett Company acquired Central Newspapers for US$2.6 billion, with the Eugene C. Pulliam Trust as the principal beneficiary of the sale.\n\nWell known as a political conservative, Pulliam was a delegate to the Republican national convention in 1952 that named General Dwight D. Eisenhower as the Republican Party's presidential nominee. Pulliam was also an outspoken advocate of freedom of the press. Pulliam wrote and published \"Window on the Right,\" a syndicated domestic-affairs column during the 1960s; wrote \"The Unchanging Responsibility of the American Newspaper in a Changing Society\" (1970); \"The People and the Press: Partners for Freedom\" (1965), coauthored with Frederic S. Marquardt; and \"South America, Land of the Future, Jewel of the Past\" (1951), coauthored with his wife, Nina Mason Pulliam. Pulliam was the father of newspaper publisher Eugene Smith Pulliam; Martha Corinne (Pulliam) Quayle, the mother of Dan Quayle, the 44th Vice President of the United States; and Helen Suzanne (Pulliam) Murphy. He was a trustee of DePauw University, a three-term member the Associated Press's board of directors, and a member of New York Central Railroad's board of directors, as well as a founder of the Phoenix Zoo.\n\nPulliam was born on May 3, 1889, in a sod dugout house at Ulysses in Grant County, Kansas, to Martha Ellen (Collins) and Reverend Irvin Brown Pulliam, who was a Methodist missionary sent to establish church congregations in the frontier towns of western Kansas. The Pulliam family moved frequently and Eugene grew up in a variety of prairie towns. He got his first taste of the newspaper business as a six-year-old boy selling newspapers in Chanute, Kansas.\n\nPulliam entered DePauw University in Greencastle, Indiana, in 1906. While a student at DePauw, Pulliam was a campus correspondent for the \"Indianapolis Star\", a member of the Psi Phi chapter of Delta Kappa Epsilon fraternity, and founder of the \"DePauw Daily\", an independent student newspaper. He was also a cofounder, in 1909, with nine other students at DePauw of Sigma Delta Chi, a journalism fraternity that was later renamed the Society of Professional Journalists. Pulliam graduated from DePauw in 1910. Later in life he served for thirty-two years as a member of DePauw's board of trustees and also chaired a committee that had a monument erected outside of DePauw's East College to commemorate the founding of Sigma Delta Chi.\n\nEugene C. Pulliam married Myrta Smith, a former college classmate, in 1912. Their son, Eugene S. Pulliam, was born on September 7, 1914, and joined the family business in 1935 as director of WIRE, an Indianapolis radio station his father owned at that time. Myrta (Smith) Pulliam died in 1917. Eugene Smith Pulliam died on January 20, 1999.\n\nEugene C. Pulliam married Martha Ott (1891–1991) of Franklin, Indiana, in 1919; they divorced in 1941. Eugene and Martha Pulliam were the parents of two daughters, Martha Corinne Pulliam, who later married James Cline Quayle, and Helen Suzanne Pulliam, who later married William Murphy. Martha (Ott) Pulliam, a graduate of Franklin College, was publisher of the \"Lebanon\" (Indiana) \"Reporter\" from the early 1940s to December 1990. She died in 1991. James and Martha C. (Pulliam) Quayle were the parents of Dan Quayle (Eugene C. Pulliam's grandson), who served as the 44th Vice President of the United States from 1989 to 1993.\n\nFollowing his divorce from Martha (Ott) Pulliam in 1941 Eugene C. Pulliam married Nina G. Mason (1906–1997). During their thirty-four-year marriage, which ended upon his death in 1975, Nina (Mason) Pulliam served as secretary-treasurer and a board member of Central Newspapers, Inc., the holding company that Eugene Pulliam founded in 1934. Eugene and Nina Pulliam also traveled extensively, including a twenty-two-nation tour in 1947. During their extended trips they filed reports of their experiences, which were published in the Pulliam newspapers. They also coauthored \"South America, Land of the Future, Jewel of the Past\" (1951). Nina (Mason) Pulliam died on March 26, 1997.\n\nAfter graduating from DePauw University in 1910, Pulliam moved to Atchison, Kansas, where he began working at the \"Atchison Daily Champion\". A few months later, he received a job to become a reporter at the \"Kansas City Star\", at that time the largest newspaper in the lower Midwest, and moved to Kansas City. In 1912, at the age of twenty-three, Pulliam returned to Atchison to become the editor and publisher of the \"Daily Champion\". He is believed to have been one of the youngest newspaper editors in the United States at that time. With financial backing from his first wife's family, Pulliam purchased the \"Daily Champion\", which was the first of forty-six newspapers he eventually owned. In 1915, Pulliam sold the \"Daily Champion\" and bought the \"Franklin\" (Indiana) \"Star\". In 1923, he sold the \"Franklin Star\" and purchased the \"Lebanon\" (Indiana) \"Reporter\".\n\nAfter moving to Oklahoma in 1929, Pulliam bought six newspapers and established the Oklahoma Newspapers, Inc. During the Great Depression, Pulliam operated twenty-three newspapers and in 1930 became president of Vincennes Newspapers, the predecessor to Central Newspapers, Inc., a holding company he formed in 1934. During his sixty-three years as a newspaper publisher, Pulliam operated forth-six newspapers. He subsequently expanded his holdings through acquisitions of newspapers in the eastern United States (in Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Pennsylvania), in the southeast (in North Carolina, Georgia, and Florida), and in the Midwest (in Indiana and Kentucky). Central Newspapers holdings included newspaper outlets in several Indiana cities and in Arizona. As president of Central Newspapers, Inc., Pulliam's publishing holdings came to include the \"Franklin\" (Indiana) \"Evening Star\"; the \"Lebanon Reporter\"; the \"Indianapolis Star\", which he acquired in 1944; the \"Muncie Star\"; the \"Arizona Republic\" and its one-time rival the \"Phoenix Gazette\", both of which were purchased in 1946; the \"Indianapolis News\", acquired in 1948; and the \"Huntington Herald-Press\".\n\nPrior to 1960, Pulliam was head of radio stations WAOV and WIRE in Indiana and KTAR in Arizona. He also served three successive terms as a member of the Associated Press’s board of directors, from 1961 to 1969, as well as a vice president of the organization. In addition, Pulliam was a major stockholder of the New York Central Railroad, becoming a director of the railroad company in 1954.\n\nPulliam was an active supporter of General Dwight D. Eisenhower's bid for U.S. president and served as a delegate to the 1952 Republican National Convention in Chicago, Illinois, where General Eisenhower was named the Republican Party's presidential nominee. However, Pulliam was less willing to endorse Barry Goldwater's candidacy against President Lyndon Johnson in the 1964 presidential race. Well known as a political conservative, Pulliam also wrote and published a syndicated domestic-affairs column called \"Window on the Right\" during the 1960s. In addition, Pulliam was an outspoken advocate of freedom of the press.\n\nPulliam died after suffering a heart attack at his retirement home in Phoenix, Arizona, on June 23, 1975, at the age of eighty-six. His remains are interred at Oak Hill Cemetery in Lebanon, Indiana. Over a career that spanned six decades, Pulliam either owned or operated forty-six newspapers in the United States. At the time of his death, Pulliam was publisher of The \"Arizona Republic\", the \"Phoenix Gazette\", and owner of the \"Indianapolis Star\", the \" Indianapolis News\", the \"Muncie Star\", the \" Muncie Press\", and the \"Vincennes Sun Commercial\".\n\nNina (Mason) Pulliam, his widow, became president of Central Newspapers, retaining the office until 1979. She also served from 1975 to 1978 as the publisher of the \"Arizona Republic\" and the \"Phoenix Gazette\". She stepped down as publisher of the two Arizona newspapers in 1978 and retired from Central Newspapers in 1979 at the age of seventy-three. Eugene C. and Nina Mason Pulliam were also among the founders of the Phoenix Zoo.\n\nPulliam's son, Eugene S. Pulliam, took over as publisher of the \"Indianapolis Star\" and the \"Indianapolis News\", the Central Newspapers company's two major newspapers in Indianapolis. In 1975, the \"Indianapolis Star\" won a Pulitzer Prize for its series on police corruption, with Eugene C. Pulliam's granddaughter, Myrta Pulliam, as a contributor. In 1991 the \" Indianapolis Star\" won another Pulitzer Prize for its investigation of medical malpractice in Indiana.\n\nOn August 1, 2000, the Gannett acquired Central Newspapers, Inc., for $2.6 billion. The Eugene C. Pulliam Trust, which owned 78 percent of the company's stock, was the principal beneficiary of the transaction. As a condition of his will, Pulliam had ordered that the trust could not sell the corporation unless it was \"seriously threatened\" by a \"substantially complete loss\" of value. In a somewhat controversial move the trustees interpreted this clause loosely and declared that the merger would be the only way to prevent the corporation from suffering a long-term loss of value.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258622", "title": "Sandaki (mansa)", "text": "Sandaki (mansa)\n\nMansa Sandaki or Sandaki Mari Djata, also known as Sandiki or Santigi, was a mansa of the Mali Empire from 1389 to 1390.\n\nDuring the reign of Mansa Musa II, the empire was run by the court's \"sandaki\" (\"high counselor\"). Sandaki Mari Djata, who had no relation to the famous founder of the same name, proved an apt if not ruthless leader. He launched a military campaign to put down rebellions in the eastern section of the empire that met with mixed results. At the same time, he imprisoned the mansa for attempting to take back his authority.\n\nWhen Mansa Musa II died in 1387, the throne went to his brother Maghan II. Sandaki Mari Djata refused to give up power and killed him. From 1389 to 1390, Sandaka Mari Djata ruled Mali as the second of two non-Keita monarchs in the empire's history.\n\nThe last brother of Musa II, Mahmud killed Sandaki Mari Djata in 1390. He became mansa that same year, restoring the Keita dynasty back to the throne.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258624", "title": "Ricardo Asch", "text": "Ricardo Asch\n\nRicardo Hector Asch (born 26 October 1947) is an obstetrician, gynecologist, endocrinologist, and fugitive. He worked with reproductive technology and pioneered gamete intrafallopian transfer (GIFT). In the mid-1990s, he was accused of removing ova from women without their consent for use on other patients, as well as associated financial crimes, at the University of California, Irvine's fertility clinic: \"The Orange County Register\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s investigations into these practices led to that paper's receiving the 1996 Pulitzer Prize for Investigative Reporting. Prior to being federally indicted, Asch fled the United States. Multiple attempts by American officials to extradite him from Latin America have failed. Asch was last reported as living in Mexico in 2011 and has now been caught after eight years on the run.\n\nBorn in Buenos Aires, Argentina, Asch studied at the University of Buenos Aires School of Medicine graduating in 1971. In 1975 he moved to the United States and worked with Robert Benjamin Greenblatt at the Medical College of Georgia before his reproductive endocrinology fellowship at the University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio. Among his many publications were his pioneering experience with GIFT and research on oocyte donation. In 1986 he joined the University of California, Irvine (UCI). In 1990 he became the Director of the Center for Reproductive Health of UCI heading the infertility program. Asch was named Assistant Dean of UCI the same year. He lectured worldwide and accrued two honorary professorships by 1994.\n\nIn 1995, the \"Orange County Register\" broke the story that Asch—then Chief of the University of California, Irvine's Center for Reproductive Health—and his two partners were accused of taking women's eggs without their permission for use by other patients. These eggs were fertilized and the resulting embryos transferred to these other women, some of them then conceiving. At least 15 live births resulted from the alleged practice. At that time, the misappropriation of human eggs was not legally considered a crime. However, numerous civil lawsuits were filed, and UCI paid out more than $27 million to settle patient claims. Auditors from KPMG Peat Marwick investigated the clinic and found that almost $1 million was privately pocketed.\n\nIn 2006, university officials admitted to the \"Los Angeles Times\" that they had not notified at least 20 women whose eggs were stolen by Asch and his colleagues.\n\nAsch and colleagues Jose Balmaceda and Sergio Stone were indicted on charges of mail fraud and income tax evasion. Asch suspended his practice, sold his properties, and fled to Mexico. Balmaceda escaped to Chile, while Stone stayed in the US and was convicted of insurance fraud in 1997 and paid a fine. In January 1996, Asch testified at a deposition in Tijuana that university employees were responsible for errors that had occurred such as mismatching patients and failing to obtain patient consents.\n\nAsch later opened a practice in Mexico and later in Argentina. He was formally fired by the university in 2000. He attained a Mexican citizenship in 2001 in addition to his native Argentine citizenship.\n\nIn 2004 Asch was arrested in Argentina, but an extradition request was denied. Asch's lawyer claims that he was tried in Argentina for fraud and acquitted.\n\nAsch was arrested again in Mexico in November 2010. On December 30, 2010, the Mexican Attorney's General Office (PGR) announced on its website that it had initiated proceedings to have Asch extradited to the United States. However, Asch was released on bail in early 2011. Subsequently, the judge ruled that as Asch had already been tried in Argentina and acquitted, the \"double jeopardy\" rule applied, thus Asch was free and would not be extradited to the United States. He was caught in late 2019.\n\nAsch, who owned an entertainment company at the time of the scandal, was one of the producers of the Andre Agassi and Nick Bollettieri instructional tennis video \"Attack\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258625", "title": "Trevor Morgan (actor)", "text": "Trevor Morgan (actor)\n\nTrevor John Morgan (born November 26, 1986) is an American actor. He has appeared in the films \"Genius\", \"The Sixth Sense\", \"The Patriot\", \"A Rumor of Angels\", \"Jurassic Park III\", \"The Glass House\", \"Chasing 3000\", \"Mean Creek\", \"Barney's Great Adventure\" based on the popular children's television series, \"Local Color\", \"Family Plan\", and \"Uncle Nino\".\n\nTrevor John Morgan was born in Chicago, Illinois as the youngest of four children; he has three older half siblings. and a younger brother, actor, Joey Morgan. His parents are Lisa Morgan and Joe Borrasso of MbM Studios, a talent development and production company. When Morgan was five, the family relocated to Orange County, California, where Trevor appeared in various commercials. In 1997, the family moved to Los Angeles, California, so that he could pursue an acting career.\n\nMorgan first appeared in several commercials for McDonald's and Cheerios and was featured on a Life cereal box. He got his first break as Alec Mackenzie in the feature film \"The Family Plan\", which led him to appear in \"Barney's Great Adventure\". Morgan was given the lead role of Duke Cooper in \"I'll Remember April\". His co-star Haley Joel Osment was given the lead role of Cole Sear in \"The Sixth Sense\", while Morgan played Cole's nemesis, a pretentious young actor.\n\nAfter the success of \"The Sixth Sense\", \"I'll Remember April\" was rushed to video due to Osment's role as Pee Wee Clayton. Morgan's picture was replaced by Osment's on the box for marketing purposes. Actor/director Mel Gibson, who was looking for several child actors to play his seven children in \"The Patriot\", saw Morgan and asked him to audition for the movie. He landed the role, playing son Nathan Martin.\n\nMorgan appeared in the films \"Jurassic Park III\" and \"The Glass House\" (2001). Among his other credits are \"Empire Falls\" as a menacing jock, the independent films \"Mean Creek\", \"Off the Black\" and \"Local Color\", and the baseball flick \"Chasing 3000\". Morgan appeared on the television series, \"ER\", where he played cancer victim Scotty Anspaugh for five episodes. For this role he garnered a 1998 SAG Award along with the main cast members of the show. His additional television credits include \"Genius\" for Disney Telefilms, \"In the Dog House\" for Viacom/Showtime, \"Touched by an Angel\" for CBS, \"Fire Co. 132\" for 20th Century Fox and \"Missing Persons\" for ABC and appeared in The Offspring music video for \"Kristy, Are You Doing Okay?\" as a young Dexter Holland.\n"}
{"id": "2258628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258628", "title": "Grigoraș Dinicu", "text": "Grigoraș Dinicu\n\nGrigoraș Ionică Dinicu (; April 3, 1889 – March 28, 1949) was a Romanian violin virtuoso and composer of Roma ethnicity. He is most famous for his often-played virtuoso violin showpiece \"Hora staccato\" (1906) and for making popular the tune Ciocârlia, composed by his grandfather Angheluș Dinicu for \"nai\" (the Romanian pan flute). It is rumored that Jascha Heifetz once said that Grigoraș Dinicu was the greatest violinist he had ever heard. In the 1930s he was involved in the political movement of the Romanian Roma and was made honorary president of the \"General Union of the Romanian Roma\". Other well known compositions are: \"Hora mărțișorului\" (\"Mărțișor\", literally \"little March\", is a major Romanian seasonal holiday on March 1), \"Ceasornicul\" (\"The Clock\") and \"Căruța poștei\" (\"The Post Wagon\").\n\nHe was born in Bucharest, in the neighborhood of the \"lăutari\" named \"Scaune\" (\"Chairs\"). Because his father was busy with his activity as a \"lăutar\", he handed him over to \"moș Zamfir\", an old violinist, who taught him the first tunes. He attended the Bucharest Conservatory, where he studied with Dumitru Georgescu-Kiriac. The most famous of his teachers was Carl Flesch, the violin pedagogue, with whom he studied in 1902. He received a scholarship at the Vienna Conservatory, but he was not allowed to go there because he was Romani, an episode that he never forgot.\n\nAfter graduation he played violin with the Orchestra of the Ministry of Public Instruction, and also performed as a soloist. \"Hora staccato\" dates from the beginning of this period; he wrote it as a graduation exercise. For forty years, from 1906 until 1946, he directed popular music concerts. He also toured abroad as a soloist and conductor, and he also played a great deal of light music in nightclubs, hotels, restaurants, and cafés in Bucharest and throughout Western Europe.\n\nHis music is mostly for violin and piano, though some pieces (such as \"Hora staccato\") have later been arranged for other combinations of instruments (for example, trumpet and piano, as well as violin and orchestra and a popular arrangement by Russian mandolin virtuoso Dave Apollon).\n\nHe died in Bucharest of laryngeal cancer.\n\nThe jazz manouche violinist Stéphane Grappelli was a great admirer of Dinicu and of the way that the violin was played in the \"lăutarească music\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2258631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258631", "title": "East Sydney", "text": "East Sydney\n\nEast Sydney may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258634", "title": "Baby Boy (Beyoncé song)", "text": "Baby Boy (Beyoncé song)\n\n\"Baby Boy\" is a song recorded by American singer Beyoncé featuring Jamaican dancehall singer Sean Paul from Beyoncé's debut solo studio album \"Dangerously in Love\" (2003). Both artists co-wrote the song with Scott Storch, Robert Waller and Shawn \"Jay-Z\" Carter; the former also co-produced the song. Containing a lyrical interpolation of \"No Fear\" by hip hop group O.G.C, \"Baby Boy\" is an R&B and dancehall song with Caribbean and Asian influences; its lyrics detail a woman's fantasies.\n\nColumbia Records and Music World Entertainment released \"Baby Boy\" as the second single from \"Dangerously in Love\" on August 3, 2003. \"Baby Boy\" topped the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 for nine consecutive weeks and was Beyoncé's longest-running solo number-one single until 2007, when it was surpassed by \"Irreplaceable\". It reached the top ten in many countries and was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) and the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). It also reached the top 10 in Australia, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, the Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Scotland, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United Kingdom.\nThe song's music video was directed by Jake Nava and mostly shows Beyoncé dancing in various locations. \"Baby Boy\" has remained a staple of Beyoncé's concert set lists. The American Society of Composers, Authors, and Publishers (ASCAP) recognized it as one of the most performed songs of 2004. In 2005, American singer-songwriter Jennifer Armour filed a copyright infringement lawsuit claiming that the song had used the primary musical hook from her song \"Got a Little Bit of Love for You\". The suit was later dismissed.\n\nIn 2002, Beyoncé went to Miami, Florida, in the United States, to work with American record producer Scott Storch for her debut solo studio album \"Dangerously in Love\". She and Storch wrote \"Baby Boy\", with contributions from American songwriter Robert Waller and Beyoncé's now-husband, hip hop artist Jay-Z. The song also contains a lyrical interpolation of \"No Fear\" by hip hop group O.G.C. used towards the ending of the song: \"We steppin' in hotter this year\".\n\nOnce the track was supposedly done, Beyoncé had the idea that it would be \"perfect\" if Jamaican reggae artist Sean Paul contributed a vocal track. Beyoncé contacted Paul about a possible collaboration for \"Baby Boy\". Sean Paul agreed, and flew in from Jamaica to join the recording sessions of the song. He contributed a toast verse, and they finished recording \"Baby Boy\" in March 2003, during the later stages of the album's recording.\n\n\"Baby Boy\" is a midtempo contemporary R&B and dancehall song with reggae, house and South Asian influences. It was composed using common time in the key of C minor, and set in moderate groove of 92 beats per minute. Storch's knowledge on Indian contributes to its Asian influences. Neil Drumming of \"Entertainment Weekly\" noted that \"'Baby Boy' goes full-tilt Bollywood 'n da hood, with Sean Paul ripping a pulsing tabla raga\". Beyoncé's vocals are accompanied by clicky and castanet-sounding beats, synthesized handclaps and slaps. According to Roger Friedman of Fox News Channel, \"Baby Boy\" is based on the reggae song \"Here Comes the Hotstepper\" (1995), performed by Jamaican singer Ini Kamoze.\n\n\"Baby Boy\" is considered to be a sequel to Jay-Z's song \"'03 Bonnie & Clyde\" (2002) featuring Beyoncé. The lyrics detail a woman's fantasies, and in keeping with the album's overall theme, Beyoncé's deemed them as personal to her. Paul remarked: \"She's telling me about her fantasies and picturing me and her going here and there, all over the world ... I'm answering back, like, 'I'm wit it'.\" The lyrics are constructed in the toast–chorus–verse form; Sean Paul performs the toasting while Beyoncé sings all other verses and choruses. The pattern is repeated twice; a further chorus and verse follow, resolving at the toasting and final verse.\n\n\"Baby Boy\" was released as the second single from Beyoncé's debut studio album, \"Dangerously in Love\" (2003). It was serviced to contemporary hit and rhythmic contemporary radio in the United States on August 3, 2003. It was released as a CD single and 12-inch single in the United Kingdom on October 6, 2003. The song was released for maxi single in Canada the following day, and in Germany on October 13. It was released in the United States as a 12-inch and CD single on October 14 and 28, 2003, respectively. \"Baby Boy\" was included in the revamped edition of Sean Paul's second studio album \"Dutty Rock\" (2003).\n\nIn 2005, American singer–songwriter Jennifer Armour filed a copyright infringement lawsuit, claiming that Beyoncé had used some lyrics and the musical hook from her song \"Got a Little Bit of Love for You\". In 2003, Armour's former label manager had submitted demo recordings to record labels, including Beyoncé's Columbia Records and Sean Paul's Atlantic Records. According to the district court, an expert witness (Chair, Department of Music Theory & Composition, Shepherd School of Music, Rice University) determined the songs to be \"substantially similar\" (a requirement for an infringement finding). With regard to the musical hook, the expert witness stated in his report: \"When the aural comparisons of the two songs are presented in the key of C minor (for easy comparison) and presented back-to-back, in A–B–A–B fashion, even the least musically inclined listener should immediately determine that the two songs are strikingly similar; I daresay that many listeners may even perceive them as being the same song! And again, transposing a song for this purpose does not alter any fundamental qualities or characteristics of the song but merely assists the ability of those unfamiliar with the technicalities of music in making a comparison.\" The district court judge nonetheless ruled that she, herself, couldn't hear the similarities between the two songs and dismissed the case, denying the motion for the songs or case to be heard by a jury. On appeal, the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirmed the district court's ruling, but ruled with different reasoning. It held that there was no infringement based on Beyoncé's claim that Armour's demo tape was received shortly after the writing of Beyoncé's song had been substantially completed. However, the court did not address the issue of substantial similarity.\n\n\"Rolling Stone\" magazine reviewer Anthony DeCurtis wrote that Beyoncé sounded as if she was \"having fun\" on the song, while Stephen Thomas Erlewine of the online music guide service AllMusic described Beyoncé's vocals as \"assured and sexy\". Mark Anthony Neal of the international webzine PopMatters, regarded \"Baby Boy\" as one of the \"high-profile collaborations\" on \"Dangerously in Love\". Lisa Verrico of the daily British newspaper \"The Times\" described the song a \"Latino-tinged collaboration ... Paul does a reggae rap in the middle, but it's when he chats while Beyoncé half raps that the pair have real chemistry\". Yancey Strickler of the \"Flak\" magazine wrote that \"'Baby Boy'<nowiki>'</nowiki>s diwali stutter is enhanced by Sean Paul's dancehall monotone\".\n\nJames Anthony of the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" commented that the track \"bridges the gap between the genres of R&B and dancehall\". \"Los Angeles Times\" writer Natalie Nichols wrote that \"the ... house-spiced 'Baby Boy' successfully meld[s] [Beyoncé's] breathy cooing with hip, interesting production.\"\n\nBritish record label EMI was honored by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) at the 2005 ASCAP Pop Music Awards as Publisher of the Year for publishing \"Baby Boy\", among other songs. Scott Storch earned Songwriter of the Year award at the same event.\n\n\"Baby Boy\" attained a positioning on the commercial charts before its physical release in the United States. The track led to a higher \"Billboard\" 200 chart placing for \"Dangerously in Love\", and helped the album to attain multi-platinum certification in the United States. The single debuted on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, at number fifty-seven, while its predecessor \"Crazy in Love\" was still on the top spot. \"Baby Boy\" dominated the airplays in the United States, ultimately reaching the top of the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. It reached the chart's top spot eight weeks after its debut, and stayed there for nine consecutive weeks. The single stayed number one for a week longer than \"Crazy in Love\" had, becoming Beyoncé's longest-charting number-one single. The feat was not broken until her single \"Irreplaceable\" (2006), from her second album \"B'Day\" (2006), spent ten weeks at the top spot from late 2006 until early 2007 due to heavy airplay. The song became Sean Paul's first number-one single in the United States. \"Baby Boy\" stayed on the Hot 100 for twenty-nine weeks, and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) on June 6, 2006. \"Baby Boy\" achieved success on \"Billboard\" crossover and mainstream radio charts, appearing on the Top 40 Tracks, Rhythmic and Mainstream Top 40, as well as peaking atop the Radio Songs and Dance/Mix Show Airplay, and at number two on Dance Club Songs. As of October 6, 2010, \"Baby Boy\" had sold 6,000 physical units in the United States.\n\nInternationally, \"Baby Boy\" performed just as well, peaking inside the top ten on all of the charts it appeared on, excluding the Ö3 Austria Top 40, Ultratop 50 Wallonia and Italian Singles Chart,\non which it reached the top twenty. The single debuted at number two in the United Kingdom, becoming the chart's highest debut of the week and \"Baby Boy\"'s highest entry internationally. Even though it spent eleven weeks on the chart, it failed to reach the top, being held off by \"Where Is the Love?\" by The Black Eyed Peas. In Australia and New Zealand, \"Baby Boy\" peaked at numbers three and two, respectively. It was certified platinum by the Australian Recording Industry Association (ARIA) for shipments in excess of 70,000 units.\n\nThe music video for \"Baby Boy\" was filmed by English director Jake Nava, who also shot Beyoncé's \"Crazy in Love\" video. It was recorded in Miami, Florida on August 7–8, 2003. Parts of the video were captured in a house with different style rooms: one in a Japanese style and one in an old English style.\n\nScenes featuring Beyoncé and Paul are shown separately. The video begins with Paul sitting on a throne while toasting; Beyoncé is leaning against a wall and dancing. In the following scene, Beyoncé is seen on a bed. Paul is shown with several women who are lying on the floor caressing each other. Beyoncé walks towards the beach; she spots a man, and the two touch and flirt. As the second verse of the begins, Beyoncé is at a party. At the party Beyoncé decides to dance with the same man that she interacted with earlier. Then, water floods the floor of the party as she sings \"the dance floor becomes the sea\". As the second chorus of the song begins, the video is cut with scenes of Beyoncé and four back-up dancers dancing on a platform in the sand on the beach. The original track is interrupted towards the end with an Arabic instrumental, designed for the music video. This section showcases Beyoncé vigorously dancing on the sand.\n\nSal Cinquemani of the online publication Slant Magazine, described the video as a \"baby-oil-logged follow-up\" to \"Crazy in Love\"'s \"bootylicous video\". In 2013, John Boone and Jennifer Cady of E! Online placed the video at number nine on their list of Beyoncé's ten best music videos, praising the extended belly-dancing breakdown. \"Baby Boy\" premiered on MTV's program \"Total Request Live\" on August 25, 2003 at number ten and reached the top spot. It stayed on the show for forty-one days, the same chart run \"Me, Myself and I\" earned.\n\nBeyoncé first performed \"Baby Boy\" live at the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards; she sang it in a medley with the pre-recorded vocals of Paul. Beyoncé later sang \"Baby Boy\" with Paul at the 2003 MTV Europe Music Awards. \"Baby Boy\" has been included on the set list for most of Beyoncé's concert tours. It served as opening song of her Dangerously in Love Tour (2003). During her performance of the song on the tour, she was initially suspended from the ceiling of the arena that was gradually lowered to a red lounger—a prop she also used during the 2003 MTV Video Music Awards. The footage taken at Wembley Arena in London, England was included on Beyoncé's first live album \"\" (2004). Beyoncé also performed \"Baby Boy\" with her former group Destiny's Child during their final tour Destiny Fulfilled... and Lovin' It (2005), and it was included on their second live album \"\" (2006).\n\n\"Baby Boy\" was a part of Beyoncé's set list on The Beyoncé Experience (2007) in Los Angeles, California, and on I Am... World Tour (2009–10). On August 5, 2007, Beyoncé performed the song at the Madison Square Garden in Manhattan, New York City, New York; wearing a belly-dancer-type outfit, she descended the staircase holding an umbrella and was met by three men wearing fatigues. A short section of Chaka Demus & Pliers' song \"Murder She Wrote\" (1993) was incorporated into \"Baby Boy\". Jon Pareles of \"The New York Times\" praised the performance, writing that Beyoncé \"needs no distractions from her singing, which can be airy or brassy, tearful or vicious, rapid-fire with staccato syllables or sustained in curlicued melismas. But she was in constant motion, strutting in costumes\". She performed in a similar arrangement at the Los Angeles' Staples Center on September 2, 2007. She was dressed in a belly dancing outfit, and the performance was executed with several male backup dancers and live instrumentation. Beyoncé re-produced the dance she executed in the song's music video. When Beyoncé performed \"Baby Boy\" in Sunrise, Florida on June 29, 2009, she was wearing a glittery gold leotard. When her performance began, she was suspended in the air, and then lowered to the B-stage to where she sang \"Baby Boy\" with an excerpt from Dawn Penn's \"You Don't Love Me (No, No, No)\". Animated graphics of turntables, faders and other club equipment were projected behind the dancers and musicians. Beyoncé was accompanied by her backing band Suga Mama, which consisted of two drummers, two keyboardists, a percussionist, a horn section, three imposing backup vocalists and the lead guitarist Bibi McGill. \"Baby Boy\" was included on her live album \"The Beyoncé Experience Live\" (2007), and the deluxe edition of \"I Am... World Tour\" (2010). At the 2005 ASCAP Pop Music Awards, \"Baby Boy\", along with Beyoncé's two other singles from \"Dangerously in Love\" – \"Me, Myself and I\" and \"Naughty Girl\" – was recognized as one of the most performed songs of 2004.\n\n\"Baby Boy\" was performed by Beyoncé in a pink fringe dress at a concert at Palais Nikaïa in Nice, France, on June 20, 2011, and at the Glastonbury Festival on June 26, 2011, where she brought out British trip hop singer Tricky to guest on the song. Between May 25–28, 2012, Beyoncé performed the song during her \"\" revue at Revel Atlantic City, New Jersey. Jim Farber of the \"Daily News\" wrote: \"The first, and last parts of the show stressed the steeliest Beyoncé, told in bold songs... [like] dancehall-inflected 'Baby Boy.'\" On February 3, 2013, Beyoncé performed the song during the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show. In 2013, Beyoncé performed \"Baby Boy\" as a medley with \"Get Me Bodied\" during her The Mrs. Carter Show World Tour (2013–14), while the songs were performed separately in 2014. The song was also performed during The Formation World Tour (2016).\n\n!scope=\"col\" colspan=\"3\"| Mastertone\n"}
{"id": "2258637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258637", "title": "The Art Gym", "text": "The Art Gym\n\nThe Art Gym is a nonprofit, noncollecting contemporary arts exhibition space at Marylhurst University in Marylhurst, Oregon near Portland, United States. The Art Gym is devoted to the artwork of the Pacific Northwest supporting retrospectives, mid-career surveys, experimental, and large-scale exhibitions. Since 1980, The Art Gym, has shown the work of more than 300 artists, produced more than 80 exhibition catalogs, and sponsored numerous artist roundtables and public forums.\n\nThe Art Gym was founded in 1980 by Marylhurst University art faculty members Kay Slusarenko, Paul Sutinen, and Terri Hopkins, who together raised $1500 from a banquet and cookie sale, to open the 2,700 square foot gallery. Hopkins, in particular, lead the charge to curate the exhibits, and to raise the necessary funds for them. The university funds the space and basic infrastructure. Since then, the gallery has occupied what was previously the campus gymnasium and theater on the third floor of the university's B.P. John Administrative Building. The Art Gym is dedicated to producing exhibitions and publications featuring artists of the Pacific Northwest.\n\nIn 1990, \"Oregonian\" reporter Randy Gragg asserted it had \"become one of the Northwest's most important showcases of regional art,\" and noted that it had already shown the work of more than 250 Northwest artists, most from the Portland metropolitan area. He noted three \"key opportunities\" offered by the Art Gym: \"young emerging artists new on the scene, mid-career artists wanting to break new ground and senior artists who deserve recognition.\"\n\nThe Art Gym held a fundraiser exhibit for its 20th anniversary, in 2000, to raise money to refinish the floors and rebuild the movable walls. The exhibit, titled \"Wonder Women to the Rescue,\" featured 34 local artists, each of whom contributed 50% of proceeds to the cause.\n\nMarylhurst University announced it would cease operations in 2018, prompting concern about the Art Gym's future. In July 2018, the Art Gym announced that it would be moving to the Oregon College of Art and Craft effective August 1, 2018.\n\nIn 2005, The Art Gym received a Governor's Arts Award.\n\nIn 2013, Robert and Mercedes Eichholz Foundation awarded a million dollar match endowment to support the Art Gym's curator position.\n\nAshley Stull Meyers was appointed the Art Gym's third director and curator in 2017.\n\nPrevious directors include Terri Hopkins (from 1980 to 2013) and Blake Shell (from 2013 to 2017).\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2258638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258638", "title": "Charles-Henri Sanson", "text": "Charles-Henri Sanson\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson, full title \"Chevalier Charles-Henri Sanson de Longval\" (15 February 1739 – 4 July 1806), was the royal executioner of France during the reign of King Louis XVI, and High Executioner of the First French Republic. He administered capital punishment in the city of Paris for over forty years, and by his own hand executed nearly 3,000 people, including the King himself.\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson was the fourth in a six-generation family dynasty of executioners. His great-grandfather, a soldier in the French royal army named Charles Sanson (1658–1695) of Abbeville, was appointed as Executioner of Paris in 1684. Upon his death in 1695, the Sanson patriarch passed the office to his son, also named Charles (1681- September 12, 1726). When this second Charles died, an official regency held the position until his young son, Charles John Baptiste Sanson (1719 - August 4, 1778), reached maturity. The third Sanson served all his life as High Executioner, and in his time fathered 16 children, 10 of whom survived to adulthood. The eldest of his sons, Charles-Henri—known as \"The Great Sanson\"—apprenticed with his father for 20 years, and was sworn into the office on 26 December 1778.\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson was born in Paris to Charles-Jean-Baptiste Sanson and his first wife Madeleine Tronson. He was first raised in the convent school at Rouen until in 1753 a father of another student recognized his father as the executioner and he had to leave the school in order to not ruin the school's reputation. Charles-Henri was then privately educated. He had a strong aversion to his family's business.\n\nHis father's paralysis and the assertiveness of his paternal grandmother, Anne-Marthe Sanson, led Charles-Henri to leave his study of medicine and to assume the job of executioner in order to guarantee the livelihood of his family. As executioner (\"bourreau\"), he came to be known as \"Monsieur de Paris\"—\"Gentleman of Paris\". On January 10, 1765, he married his second wife, Marie-Anne Jugier. They had two sons: Gabriel (1767–1792), who also worked in the family business and had been his assistant and heir apparent from 1790, but he died after slipping off a scaffold as he displayed a severed head to the crowd, and Henri (1769–1830), who became his official successor.\n\nIn 1757, Sanson assisted his uncle Nicolas-Charles-Gabriel Sanson (1721–1795, executioner of Reims) with the extremely gruesome execution of the King's attempted assassin Robert-François Damiens. His uncle quit his position as executioner after this event. In 1778 Charles-Henri officially received the blood-red coat, the sign of the master executioner, from his father Charles-Jean-Baptiste and held this position for 38 years, until his son Henri in 1795 succeeded him after he showed serious signs of illness. Most of the executions were performed by Sanson and up to six assistants.\n\nSanson was the first executioner to use the guillotine, and he led the initial inspection and testing of its prototype on April 17, 1792 at Bicêtre Hospital in Paris. Swift and efficient decapitations of straw bales were followed by live sheep and finally human corpses, and by the end, Sanson led the inspectors in pronouncing the new device a resounding success. Within the week, the Assembly had approved its use and on April 25, 1792, Sanson inaugurated the era of the guillotine by executing Nicolas Jacques Pelletier for robbery and assault at the Place de Grève on April 25, 1792. The use of the guillotine transformed Sanson's status under the revolutionary ideology from outcast to citizen, equal in rights and civil duties.\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson performed 2,918 executions, including Louis XVI. Even though he was not a supporter of the monarchy, Sanson was initially reluctant to execute the king but in the end performed the execution. As David Jordan notes, \"No Monsieur de Paris had ever had the honor of executing a king, and Sanson wanted precise instructions.\" Sanson experienced the political and psychological pressures of revolutionary Paris. He had the duty to execute Louis XVI under the power of the sitting Provisional Government. Being the heir to a line of executioners, to refuse this duty would have brought shame to the family name and danger to himself and to his family members. He experienced the stress of having to execute not only the king but also successive waves of officials as those in power shifted rapidly in a time of revolutionary change.\n\nHowever, the execution of Louis XVI was of particular import. Fearing rescue efforts, the streets of Paris were lined with troops as Louis’s carriage took its somber two hours to travel to the scaffold arriving at 10 am on January 21, 1793. After Sanson efficiently cut his hair, Louis attempted to address the crowd but was silenced with a drum roll and Louis was executed, Sanson pulling his head from the basket to show to the crowd. But the execution may not have gone as smoothly as possible: “One of two accounts of Louis’ death suggest the blade did not sever his whole neck in one go, and had to be borne down on by the executioner to get a clean cut.” Quite possibly, then, the execution went from being quick and fast to being more difficult and painful. As David Andress notes, however, “With his spine severed already, it is nevertheless unlikely that Louis could have uttered the ‘terrible cry’ that one account claims.”\n\nOn July 17, 1793, Sanson executed Charlotte Corday. After Corday's decapitation, a man named Legros lifted her head from the basket and slapped it on the cheek. Sanson indignantly rejected published reports that Legros was one of his assistants. Sanson stated in his diary that Legros was in fact a carpenter who had been hired to make repairs to the guillotine. Witnesses report an expression of \"unequivocal indignation\" on her face when her cheek was slapped. The oft-repeated anecdote has served to suggest that victims of the guillotine may in fact retain consciousness for a short while, including by Albert Camus in his \"Reflections on the Guillotine.\" (\"Charlotte Corday's severed head blushed, it is said, under the executioner's slap.\"). This offense against a woman executed moments before was considered unacceptable and Legros was imprisoned for three months because of his outburst.\n\nThe Queen, Marie Antoinette, was executed by his son Henri on October 16, 1793, who succeeded his father in 1795 and Charles-Henri only attended. Later, using the guillotine, Sanson and his men executed successive waves of well-known revolutionaries, including Danton, Robespierre, Saint-Just, Hébert and Desmoulins.\n\nAfter the Revolution, Sanson was instrumental in the adoption of the guillotine as the standard form of execution. After Joseph-Ignace Guillotin publicly proposed Antoine Louis' new execution machine, Sanson delivered a memorandum of unique weight and insight to the French Assembly. Sanson, who owned and maintained all his own equipment, argued persuasively that multiple executions were too demanding for the old methods.\n\nThe relatively lightweight tools of his trade broke down under heavy usage, and the repair and replacement costs were prohibitive, unreasonably burdening the executioner. Even worse, the physical exertion required to use them was too taxing and likely to result in accidents, and the victims themselves were likely to resort to acts of desperation during the lengthy, unpredictable procedures.\n\nCharles-Henri Sanson died on July 4, 1806, and is buried in a family plot in Montmartre Cemetery in Paris.\n\nSanson's eldest son Gabriel (1767–1792) had been his assistant and heir apparent from 1790, but he died after slipping off a scaffold as he displayed a severed head to the crowd. With his death, the hereditary obligation fell to the youngest son, Henri (1769–1840), who was a soldier in the Revolution (sergeant, then captain of the national guard in Paris, later in the artillery and police of the Tribunals), and was married to Marie-Louise Damidot. Henri assumed the family office from Charles-Henri in August, 1795, and he remained the official Executioner of Paris for 47 years. Henri guillotined Marie Antoinette and the chief prosecutor Fouquier-Tinville (1795), among many others.\n\nCharles-Henri's grandson, Henry-Clément Sanson, was the sixth and last in the dynasty of executioners, serving until 1847.\n\nIn the late 1840s the Tussaud brothers Joseph and Francis, gathering relics for Madame Tussauds wax museum visited the aged Henry-Clément Sanson and secured parts of one of the original guillotines used during the Age of Terror. The executioner had \"pawned his guillotine, and got into woeful trouble for alleged trafficking in municipal property\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258647", "title": "El Molinón", "text": "El Molinón\n\nEstadio El Molinón (), officially Estadio Municipal El Molinón-Enrique Castro \"Quini\", is an association football stadium in Gijón, Asturias, Spain. The stadium is the home ground of Real Sporting de Gijón. With a capacity of 30,000 seats, El Molinón is the 20th largest stadium in Spain and the second largest in Asturias.\n\nEl Molinón is the oldest professional football field in Spain. It has been in use since at least 1908, and is located on the site of an old watermill, hence the stadium's name, the Spanish word for \"big mill\".\n\nReal Sporting started to use El Molinón as official ground in 1917. The first official match was held on April 22, 1917 between Real Sporting and Arenas Club de Getxo as part of the 1917 Copa del Rey. Arenas won 0–1. On August 5 of that same year, the first great renovation of the stadium was finished.\n\nOn 2 May 1920, El Molinón held the 1920 Copa del Rey Final, where Barcelona defeated Athletic Bilbao by 2–0.\n\nIn 1924 Real Sporting bought El Molinón and became the owner of the stadium. In 1931 the main stand was destroyed by fire, but it was later re-built. In 1944, Gijón City Hall re-bought El Molinón due to Real Sporting's bad financial situation.\n\nIn 1968 four floodlights were installed at El Molinón and the first night match was played against Mestalla. On 11 April 1969, due to the financial trouble of Real Sporting, the stadium was formally sold to the city Town Hall by 30 million pesetas. On 30 November 1969, El Molinón became the first all-covered stadium in Spain and on 28 January 1970, the first match to be televised in Spain was played at El Molinón. Real Sporting defeated Osasuna by 3–0. The club also played all of its UEFA Cup home-matches in this stadium, including the win against A.C. Milan by 1–0 on 30 September 1987.\n\nOn 28 June 1995, Real Sporting beat the record attendance for the club at El Molinón, with 42,000 people at the relegation playoffs against Lleida.\n\nDuring 1997–98, El Molinón prepared to adapt to the new UEFA and FIFA security legislation: all people must be seated and the fences must be removed. The stadium's capacity was reduced from 42,000 to 25,885. However, plans were put forward for the stadium to be renovated and expanded. After the expansion between 2009 and 2011, El Molinón's capacity again grew to 29,029 seats.\n\nOn 28 February 2018, just one day after the death of Real Sporting's all-time top scorer Quini, the City Council of Gijón agreed unanimously to rename the stadium as \"Estadio El Molinón-Enrique Castro \"Quini\"\" in his memory. Three months later, after a popular initiative, the gate 1 of the stadium was renamed as former goalkeeper Jesús Castro, brother of Quini.\n\nOn 8 January 2019, El Molinón used for the first time the video assistant referee at the Copa del Rey round of 16 match against Valencia. However, as in that season it was only used in La Liga, the stadium would not have again the VAR until the 2019–20 season.\n\nThe stadium hosted its first women's football match ever on 21 April 2019. 9,700 spectators attended the local derby between Real Sporting and Gijón FF.\n\nThis is a list of league and playoffs games attendances of Sporting de Gijón at El Molinón.\n\nSporting played all the competitive games at this stadium except one in the 2002–03 season due to the closure of the stadium after the game against Numancia. This game, not included in the table, was played against Almería at the Estadio Antonio Amilivia in León.\nThe first international match in El Molinón was held on 22 April 1928 between Spain and Italy. 49 years later, El Molinón held again another international match between Spain and Norway. On 22 March 2013, El Molinón held a World Cup Qualifying match between Spain and Finland. The match finished in a 1-1 draw.\n\nThe stadium played host to three matches in Group B. Two of them were famous in the 1982 World Cup, West Germany's shock 1-2 defeat to Algeria being the first. After the result of Algeria's final group game was known, a rather uncontested 1–0 victory of West Germany against Austria which sent both teams through at Algeria's expense. In German the match is known as Nichtangriffspakt von Gijón (lit. \"Non-aggression pact of Gijón\") or Schande von Gijón (lit. \"Shame of Gijón\"). This shameful game at Gijon directly led to a change of the rules, requiring the last matches in the group phase to be played simultaneously.\n\nIn 1981, some scenes of the film \"Volver a empezar\", prized with the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film in 1983, were shot in El Molinón.\n\nThe stadium has hosted concerts by many famous artists, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258652", "title": "Exodus (The New Power Generation album)", "text": "Exodus (The New Power Generation album)\n\nExodus is the second studio album by the New Power Generation. Although the track listing boasts 21 tracks, many of them are narrative segues, leaving only nine actual songs. Of those, one is an instrumental. The album spawned three singles, however only one was released in the United States.\n\nThe album's title was seen as mysterious by most people, due to Prince's quirks and unusual behavior in various interviews given during promotion of the album. However, in an interview, former NPG dancer Mayte Garcia made a statement regarding the album's title and concept:\nIn the same interview, Morris Hayes added on to Mayte's statement and said:\nWhile their previous album, \"Goldnigga\" was more hip-hop oriented, \"Exodus\" is more of a pure funk offering, strongly influenced by the sound of Parliament and P-Funk. This album still downplays Prince's involvement in the band, with \"Tora Tora\", another in the long line of Prince's personas, as a background vocalist whose face is covered with a red veil (evidenced in the video of \"The Good Life\"). The front man for the NPG on this release is bass player Sonny T. who handles the lead vocals. Prince does provide lead vocals on two tracks, \"Return of the Bump Squad\" and \"The Exodus Has Begun\" using manipulated vocals and is clearly present on many of the spoken segues, although sometimes using a disguised accent.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258656", "title": "Trevor Morgan", "text": "Trevor Morgan\n\nTrevor Morgan may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258659", "title": "Frederick Manfred", "text": "Frederick Manfred\n\nFrederick Feikema Manfred (January 6, 1912 – September 7, 1994) was a noted Western author. Manfred's novels are very much connected to his native region. His stories involve the American Midlands, and the prairies of the West. He named the area where the borders of Minnesota, Iowa, South Dakota, and Nebraska meet, \"Siouxland.\"\n\nManfred was born in Doon, Iowa. He was baptized Frederick Feikes Feikema, VII, and he used the name Feike Feikema when he published his first books. He was the oldest of six boys, all over six feet tall, and was himself six feet nine inches tall. Manfred was a third generation Frisian American, whose family originated in the village of Tzum, in the Dutch province of Friesland.\n\nManfred was raised in the Christian Reformed Church. James Bratt argues that Manfred rebelled against this upbringing, being filled with \"religious doubts and ethical chafings.\" Bratt goes on to discuss this influence that this upbringing had on Manfred's writing, and suggests that the qualities of his work - \"earthy detail, metaphysical sweep, both set to biblical cadence - are precisely those of his native faith.\"\n\nIn 1937 Manfred worked as a sports reporter for The Minneapolis Journal. He was fired a couple years later, due to his involvement in union organization. Shortly after this Manfred developed tuberculosis and entered Glen Lake Sanatorium in Oak Terrace, Minnesota, in April 1940. It was in this sanatorium that he met his future wife Maryanna Shorba. Manfred left the sanatorium in 1942 and worked on the staff of Modern Medicine and as assistant campaign manager for Hubert Humphrey, who was a candidate for mayor of Minneapolis. He fictionalized this period in his book \"Boy Almighty\", published under the name Feike Feikema.\n\nManfred published \"The Primitive\", the first novel in his World's Wanderer trilogy, in 1949. It was poorly received, and the next two books in the trilogy, \"The Brother\" (1950) and \"The Giant\" (1951), met with mixed reviews. In 1952 Manfred decided to change his name from Frederick Feikema to Frederick Feikema Manfred, and Frederick Manfred became his publishing name. \"Lord Grizzly\", the first of The Buckskin Man Tales, was the first work Manfred published under his new name. It was a best seller and one of the finalists for the National Book Award in 1954. The Buckskin Man Tales are the novels \"Lord Grizzly\", \"Conquering Horse\", \"Scarlet Plume\", \"King of Spades\", and \"Riders of Judgment\".\n\nFor a time he lived in a house which is now the interpretive center of Blue Mounds State Park in Rock County, Minnesota. He attended Calvin College in Michigan. He had three children with his wife Maryanna Shorba Manfred: Freya Manfred, Frederick Manfred Jr., and Marya Manfred.\n\nManfred was the writer-in-residence in the English Department at the University of South Dakota during the 1970s and 80s. According to his daughter Freya Manfred, \"Many of those who drank coffee with him, watched him, listened to him, learned from him, are now well-known national or regional writers: Pete Dexter, Michael Doane, Elly Welt, William Earls, Dan O'Brien, Linda Hasselstrom, Craig Volk, Bill Holm, John Calvin Rezmerski, and Joe and Nancy Paddock.\"\n\nManfred died in Luverne, Minnesota in 1994, of a brain tumor, at the age of 82. In 2013, a Frisian translation was published of Manfred's autobiographical novel \"Green Earth\", titled \"De Griene Ierde\".\n\nNote: There are also a handful of non-fiction titles, notably \"The Wind Blows Free\", a memoir of the Dust Bowl, \"Conversations with Frederick Manfred\", and \"Prime Fathers\" and \"Duke's Mixture\", anthologies of FM's essays.\n\nRobert C. Wright, \"Frederick Manfred\" (Twayne's United States Authors series ; TUSAS 336)\n\n• Frederick Manfred discusses Lord Grizzley and his other writings with his daughter Freya Manfred in this two-part program recorded in 1988:\n\nNorthern Lights Minnesota Author Interview TV Series #51: </nowiki>Northern Lights TV Series #52: </nowiki>\n\n• Author John Calvin Rezmerski reads from The Frederick Manfred Reader as part of the 1997 Minnesota Book Awards program - Northern Lights TV Series #376 (1997): </nowiki>\n"}
{"id": "2258663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258663", "title": "Jason Cranford Teague", "text": "Jason Cranford Teague\n\nJason Cranford Teague is a web designer and author. He designed \"Computer-Mediated Communications Magazine\", the first online magazine, in 1994.\n\nHe is best known for his books \"CSS3 Visual Quickstart\" (2013) and \"Fluid Web Typography\" (2012).\n\nTeague has been working as a web designer for more than 20 years. Notable clients include EPA, USDA, Aspen Institute, Marriott, Bank of America, Cisco, Coca-Cola, Virgin Group, CNN, Kodak, and WebMD.\n\nTeague has written several books and articles about web design and media. His books include the best selling \"DHTML and CSS for the World Wide Web\" (originally 1999, fifth printing 2013), \"Final Cut Pro 4 and the Art of Filmmaking\" (2004), \"Photoshop at Your Fingertips\" (2004), and \"Speaking In Styles\" (2009).\n\n\n\nTeague has contributed numerous articles to \"Apple Developers Connection\", \"Computer Arts Magazine\", and \"Macworld Magazine\". He writes regularly about technology, politics, and culture on webbedENVIRONMENTS. He has also appeared on TechTV's \"The Screen Savers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2258667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258667", "title": "GB virus C", "text": "GB virus C\n\nGB virus C (GBV-C), formerly known as hepatitis G virus (HGV) and also known as human pegivirus – HPgV is a virus in the family \"Flaviviridae\" and a member of the \"Pegivirus\", is known to infect humans, but is not known to cause human disease. Reportedly, HIV patients coinfected with GBV-C can survive longer than those without GBV-C, but the patients may be different in other ways. Research is active into the virus' effects on the immune system in patients coinfected with GBV-C and HIV.\n\nThe majority of immunocompetent individuals clear GBV-C viraemia, but in some individuals, infection persists for decades. However, the time interval between GBV-C infection and clearance of viraemia (detection of GBV-C RNA in plasma) is not known.\n\nAbout 2% of healthy US blood donors are viraemic with GBV-C, and up to 13% of blood donors have antibodies to E2 protein, indicating possible prior infection.\n\nParenteral, sexual, and vertical transmissions of GBV-C have been documented. Because of shared modes of transmission, individuals infected with HIV are often coinfected with GBV-C; the prevalence of GBV-C viraemia in HIV patients ranges from 14 to 43%.\n\nSeveral but not all studies have suggested that coinfection with GBV-C slows the progression of HIV disease. \"In vitro\" models also demonstrated that GBV-C slows HIV replication. This beneficial effect may be related to action of several GBV-C viral proteins, including NS5A phosphoprotein and E2 envelope protein.\n\nIt has a single-stranded, positive-sense RNA genome of about 9.3 kb and contains a single open reading frame (ORF) encoding two structural (E1 and E2) and five nonstructural (NS2, NS3, NS4, NS5A, and NS5B) proteins. GB-C virus does not appear to encode a C (core or nucleocapsid) protein like, for instance, hepatitis C virus. Nevertheless, viral particles have been found to have a nucleocapsid. The source of the nucleocapsid protein remains unknown.\n\nGBV-C is a member of the family \"Flaviviridae\" and is phylogenetically related to hepatitis C virus, but replicates primarily in lymphocytes, and poorly, if at all, in hepatocytes. GBV-A and GBV-B are probably tamarin viruses, while GBV-C infects humans. The GB viruses have been tentatively assigned to a fourth genus within the \"Flaviviridae\" named \"\"Pegivirus\"\", but this has yet to be formally endorsed by the International Committee on Taxonomy of Viruses.\n\nAnother member of this clade, GBV-D, has been isolated from a bat (\"Pteropus giganteus\"). GBV-D may be ancestral to GBV-A and GBV-C.\n\nThe mutation rate of the GBV-C genome has been estimated at 10 to 10 substitutions/site/year.\n\nGBV-C infection has been found worldwide and currently infects around a sixth of the world's population. High prevalence is observed among subjects with the risk of parenteral exposures, including those with exposure to blood and blood products, those on hemodialysis, and intravenous drug users. Sexual contact and vertical transmission may occur. About 10–25% of hepatitis C-infected patients and 14–36% of drug users who are seropositive for HIV-1 show the evidence of GBV-C infection.\n\nIt has been classified into seven genotypes and many subtypes with distinct geographical distributions. Genotypes 1 and 2 are prevalent in Northern and Central Africa and in Americas. Genotypes 3 and 4 are commons in Asia. Genotype 5 is present in Central and Southern Africa. Genotype 6 can be encountered in Southeast Asia. Finally, genotype 7 has been reported in China. Infection with multiple genotypes is possible.\n\nGenotype 5 appears to be basal in the phylogenetic tree, suggesting an African origin for this virus.\n\nHepatitis G virus and GB virus C (GBV-C) are RNA viruses that were independently identified in 1995, and were subsequently found to be two isolates of the same virus. Although GBV-C was initially thought to be associated with chronic hepatitis, extensive investigation failed to identify any association between this virus and any clinical illness. GB Virus C (and indeed, GBV-A and GBV-B) is named after the surgeon, G. Barker, who fell ill in 1966 with a non-A non-B hepatitis which at the time was thought to have been caused by a new, infectious hepatic virus.\n"}
{"id": "2258670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258670", "title": "Dizzy, Miss Lizzy", "text": "Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\n\n\"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\" is a rock and roll song written and recorded by Larry Williams in 1958. Although identified as a \"genuine rock & roll classic\", it had limited success on the record charts. Seven years later, the Beatles recorded the song, and John Lennon performed it with the Plastic Ono Band in 1969.\n\nAt the end of 1957, Williams scored with one of his biggest hits, \"Bony Moronie\". On February 19, 1958, he entered the Radio Recorders studio in Hollywood, California, to record a potential follow-up. He was again was backed by some well-known session musicians, including René Hall, who is credited as the band leader and with supplying the distinctive guitar riff. However, it is Williams' vocal that makes the song stand out, according to music journalist Gene Sculatti, \"at ease with its own intensity [that is] finally out of Richard's shadow\" (Little Richard and Williams were both signed to Specialty Records).\n\nSpecialty released \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\" on both the 78 rpm and newer 45 rpm record formats. Williams had several completed recordings to choose from, but the label decided to go with \"Slow Down\", a track he had recorded at the same September 11, 1957, session that produced \"Bony Moronie\". Both sides received notices in \"Billboard\" magazine, but only \"Dizzy, Miss Lizzy\" reached the \"Top 100 Sides\" chart. It peaked at number 69 during the week ending April 19, 1958. Both songs were included on Williams's first album, the Specialty compilation \"Here's Larry Williams\" (1959).\n\n\nIn 1965, the Beatles recorded \"Dizzy Miss Lizzy\" in response to requests from Capitol Records (their US record label) for new material. The song is included on the UK album \"Help!\" and the US album \"Beatles VI\". They recorded it along with another Williams tune, \"Bad Boy\", on the same day.\n\nGroup biographer Ian MacDonald describes the song as \"an unprepossessing shambles of \"ersatz\" hysteria and jumbled double-tracking\". However, AllMusic's Stephen Thomas Erlewine comments \"'Dizzy Miss Lizzy' gives John an opportunity to flex his rock & roll muscle.\"\n\nLennon later recorded \"Dizzy Miss Lizzy\" at a performance at the Toronto Rock and Roll Revival on September 13, 1969. The song is included on the Plastic Ono Band album \"Live Peace in Toronto 1969\".\n\nIn \"Revolution in the Head\", MacDonald lists the following:\n"}
{"id": "2258671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258671", "title": "Rafał Olbiński", "text": "Rafał Olbiński\n\nRafal Olbinski (born February 21, 1943) is a Polish illustrator, painter, and educator, living in the United States. He is considered one of the major representatives of the Polish School of Posters.\n\nOlbinski was born in Kielce, Poland. He graduated from the architecture program of the Warsaw University of Technology in 1969.\n\nOlbinski immigrated to the United States in 1981, where he soon established himself as a prominent painter, illustrator and designer. Olbinski's work is very similar to the work of the famous Belgian surrealist Rene Magritte; Olbinski describes his approach to painting and illustrating as \"poetic surrealism\". He has cited his influences as \"everybody\", specifically Saul Steinberg, Milton Glaser, Marshall Arisman and Brad Holland.\n\nRafal Olbinski's works are included in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art (Poster Collection), the Carnegie Foundation in New York, National Arts Club in New York, the Smithsonian Institution and the Library of Congress in Washington, Suntory Museum in Osaka, Japan, the Poster Museum in Warsaw, Poland, and others throughout Europe and the United States.\n\nIn 1992 Olbinski began a close collaboration with Sheri and Kenneth Nahan of Patinae, Inc. and Nahan Galleries. They continue to represent his works world wide since that date.\n\nIn 1996 he was commissioned by the U.S. Information Agency to design a poster celebrating the 25th Earth Day Anniversary. From 2002 through 2010, a selection of Olbinski paintings was included in the Grand Space projection in Grand Central Terminal, as a highlight of the Earth Day Celebration in New York. The other artists featured in the show are Keith Haring, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg, and Andy Warhol.\n\nIn 1999 Olbinski was commissioned to create a surreal image of San Francisco, by Gallery 444. The proceeds from the painting were given to The SF Chronicle Season of Sharing Fund, funding services for those in need. This was followed by a major exhibition of paintings by Olbinski held at Gallery 444.\n\nIn 2001, the Willy-Brandt House in Berlin presented the works of Rafal Olbinski in a one-man retrospective exhibition entitled \"Art at the Turn of the Century\".\nIn 2002 he created the set designs for the Opera Company of Philadelphia's performance of Mozart's Don Giovanni, highly acclaimed by critics in the New York Times and the Philadelphia Inquirer. In the same year the exhibition \"Art with Moral Purpose\" at the Goethe Institute in Hamburg exhibited the paintings and posters of Olbinski.\n\nOlbinski was commissioned to create several paintings, illustrating articles and essays on moral values, which appeared in seven consecutive issues of the German news magazine \"Stern\". This led to a traveling exhibition of these paintings, the first hosted by the wife of the then President of Germany, Eva Luise Köhler.\n\nIn 2008 Olbinski had a one-man exhibition titled \"Olbinski - photokina Expo\" for Hewlett Packard (Cologne, Germany). In 2009 he had a large museum exhibition at The Jule Collins Smith Museum in Auburn entitled \"New Dreams of Old Values\".\n\nHe has completed many large murals for installations in public space in Europe. He has produced more than 100 opera illustrations for album covers for Allegro-Music's Opera D'Oro Series.\n\nOlbinski is on the faculty of the School of Visual Arts in New York City.\n\nFor his artistic achievements, he has received more than 150 awards including Gold and Silver Medals from the Art Directors Club of New York, Gold and Silver Medals from the Society of Illustrators in New York and Los Angeles, and The Big Crit 2000 award by Critique Magazine in San Francisco. In 1994 he was awarded the International Oscar for The World's Most Memorable Poster, Prix Savignac in Paris. The President of the Republic of Poland awarded Olbinski the highest award in the field of arts, the gold medal, \"Gloria Artis.\"\n\nIn 1994, he received the Creative Review Award for the Best of British Illustration in London. In 1995 his poster was chosen as the official New York City Capital of the World Poster in an invitational competition by a jury led by Mayor Rudy Giuliani. In the following year he won the Steven Dohanos Award for the best painting in the Annual Member Exhibition of the Society of Illustrators. In July 2002 the city of Fondi, Italy awarded him Divina Giulia for his contribution to contemporary art.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258672", "title": "Virgilio Garcillano", "text": "Virgilio Garcillano\n\nVirgilio Olivar Garcillano (born c.1948) also known as Garci, is a former official of the Philippine Commission on Elections who allegedly was involved in Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo's alleged electoral fraud in the Hello Garci scandal.\n\nGarcillano was missing as he is suspected to be in hiding, initially abroad but recently in the country. Some sources stated that he was seen leaving the Philippines for Kota Kinabalu, Malaysia. Other sources also stated that Garcillano was seen boarding a jet en route to Singapore. Garcillano also momentarily was seen in Surigao City, particularly in a beach resort under heavy guard. An arrest warrant was issued to his last known address in Cagayan de Oro City but his father-in-law refused to sign it, but it was considered served. The Philippine National Police and National Bureau of Investigation were requested by the Philippine Congress to locate Garcillano to respond to allegations in Congress.\n\nIndependent sources confirmed that Virgilio Garcillano took a flight from Subic last July 14, to Singapore, contrary to denials by Philippine authorities. He spent a night in Singapore, and then flew for London.\n\nThe management of the Bureau of Immigration, Air Transportation Office, and other government agencies were blamed for the escape of Garcillano.\n\nGarcillano was believed to have returned in the Philippines through Sabah, Malaysia via a motorized boat on November 20. He appeared before media on November 26. He issued statements denying election rigging and admitted that he called the President. He also denied that he ever left the Philippines and having a biological relationship with Michaelangelo Zuce, an opposition witness.\n\nIn December 2006, Garcillano was cleared of perjury charges by the Department of Justice. He ran for Representative of the First Congressional District of Bukidnon in the 2007 Philippine Midterm elections in May but he lost to Candido Pancrudo, Jr. of Lakas-CMD. Garcillano resides in Baungon and Malaybalay City, Bukidnon.\n\nAn insider of Smart Communications worked with the ISAFP (Intelligence Service, Armed Forces of the Philippines) in wiretapping political leaders during the 2004 elections, and Smart admitted it was possible that an employee coordinated with ISAFP. Vidal Doble said two of his former superiors at the \"\"Project Lighthouse\"\" operation – Col. Paul Sumayo and Capt. Frederick Rebong – \"\"coordinated\"\" with a \"\"recruit\"\" and contact inside Smart. Ramon Isberto of Smart, said - \"\"This first came out two to three years ago. The company has not participated in any efforts to monitor conversations.\"\" Speechless wiretappers: Doble said he and everybody else involved in \"Project Lighthouse\" were shocked to hear President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo speak with former Virgilio Garcillano about the rigging of poll results. Doble said \"Project Lighthouse\" had 14 members divided into four teams - \"\"All of the teams knew about the conversation of PGMA (Arroyo) and commissioner Garcillano\".\" Doble revealed those who gave the order to launch \"Project Lighthouse\": Western Command (Wescom) chief Vice Admiral Tirso Danga, former deputy chief of staff for intelligence; Brigadier Gen. Marlou Quevedo, former ISAFP chief; Army Col. Allen Capuyan, former head of the ISAFP's special operations group; and \"\"down the line\"\" the project \"\"group commander\"\" Col. Sumayo; Capt. Rebong; and Capt. Lindsay Rex Sagge.\n\nOn September 6, 2007, retired Philippine Court of Appeals Justices Santiago Ranada and Oswaldo Agcaoili filed (a 15-page petition for prohibition with temporary restraining order or preliminary injunction) with the Supreme Court of the Philippines to enjoin the September 7, 2007 Senate of the Philippines (committee on national defense) wiretap probe (on the alleged wiretapping of telephone conversations of President Gloria Macapagal-Arroyo and former election commissioner Virgilio Garcillano \"inter alia\").\n\nOn September 12, 2007, Garcillano was released from the Chinese General Hospital and Medical Center in the Sta. Cruz, Manila after a biopsy due to prostate disease. Garcillano's lawyer Ed Tamondong confirmed this illness and promised that Garci will appear at the September 21 Senate of the Philippines hearing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258676", "title": "Vale, Guernsey", "text": "Vale, Guernsey\n\nVale (Guernésiais: \"Lé Vale\"; French: \"Le Valle\") is one of the ten parishes of Guernsey in the Bailiwick of Guernsey, Channel Islands.\n\nIn 933 the islands, formerly under the control of William I, then Duchy of Brittany were annexed by the Duchy of Normandy. The island of Guernsey and the other Channel Islands represent the last remnants of the medieval Duchy of Normandy.\n\nMuch of the Vale parish belonging to the fief Saint Michael, which benefited the Benedictine monks who lived in an abbey that had been built next to the Vale Church from when it was granted in 1032 by Robert of Normandy who had apparently been caught in a storm and his ship had ended up safe in Guernsey. The rights to the fief were removed by Henry VIII when he undertook the Dissolution of the Monasteries.\n\nThe Castle of Saint Michael, now called Vale Castle, has an origin going back at least 1,000 years and was used as a refuge from pirate attacks. It was probably started in the late 10th century. In 1372 Owain Lawgoch, a claimant to the Welsh throne, attacked Guernsey at the head of a free company, on behalf of France. This event is popularly called \"La Descente des Aragousais\". Owain Lawgoch withdrew after killing 400 of the Island militia. The poem of the same name refers to the castle as the \"Château de l'Archange\", the location of the last-ditch stand against the insurgents.\n\nIn 1615 the island was required to maintain the Vale Castle, while the Crown maintained Castle Cornet. It has been a focal point for defence; the most recent modifications were undertaken by the German occupiers.\n\nUntil 1806 the parish occupied territory on the mainland of Guernsey, the Vingtaine de l'Epine, as well as the whole of Le Clos du Valle, a tidal island forming the northern extremity of Guernsey separated from the mainland by Le Braye du Valle, a tidal channel. Le Braye was drained and reclaimed in 1806 by the British Government as a defence measure. Vale now consists of two non-contiguous territories.\n\nThe Vale postal code mainly starts with GY3 with some starting GY8.\n\nThe features of the parish include:\nThe parish of the Vale hosts:\n\nThe parish was twinned with the Normandy port of Barneville-Carteret in 1987.\n\nVale comprises the whole of the Vale administrative division\n\nIn the 2016 Guernsey general election there was a 3,774 or 74% turnout to elect six Deputies. Those elected (in order of votes received) being \"Matt Fallaize\", \"Dave Jones\", \"Mary Lowe\", \"Laurie Queripel\", \"Jeremy Smithies\" and \"Sarah Hansmann Rouxel\".\n\nDave Jones died in July 2016 and a by-election was held in October 2016 to elect a replacement.\n"}
{"id": "2258679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258679", "title": "Chestnut Grove, North Carolina", "text": "Chestnut Grove, North Carolina\n\nChestnut Grove is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately three miles north-northwest of King.\n"}
{"id": "2258685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258685", "title": "Goethe Prize", "text": "Goethe Prize\n\nThe Goethe Prize of the City of Frankfurt () is an award for achievement \"worthy of honour in memory of Johann Wolfgang von Goethe\" made by the city of Frankfurt am Main, Germany. It was usually an annual award until 1955, and thereafter has been triennial. Many recipients are authors, but persons working in several other creative and scientific fields have been honoured. The prize money is €50,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258690", "title": "Maghan III", "text": "Maghan III\n\nMaghan III, also known as Mahmud I, was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1390 to about 1400. He assumed the throne following the usurper Sandaki, who ruled for only two years.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258693", "title": "Edward Stanley, 4th Baron Stanley of Alderley", "text": "Edward Stanley, 4th Baron Stanley of Alderley\n\nEdward Lyulph Stanley, 4th Baron Sheffield, 4th Baron Stanley of Alderley and 3rd Baron Eddisbury PC (16 May 1839 – 18 March 1925) was an English peer.\n\nHe was the son of Edward Stanley, 2nd Baron Stanley of Alderley, and the former Henrietta Dillon-Lee. He was educated at Eton College and Balliol College, Oxford.\n\nStanley (then known as the Honourable Edward Lyulph Stanley) contested Oldham, in the Liberal interest, at elections in 1872, 1874, 1880 and 1885. He only won the 1880 contest and served in the House of Commons during the 1880–1885 Parliament. He was appointed a Privy Counsellor in 1910.\n\nStanley was a member of the London School Board from 1876 to 1885 and also from 1888 to 1896. He wrote a book \"Our National Education\" (1899).\n\nStanley married Mary Katherine Bell, daughter of Lowthian Bell, on 6 February 1873. They had eight children:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258704", "title": "Albert Jean Michel de Rocca", "text": "Albert Jean Michel de Rocca\n\nAlbert Jean Michel de Rocca (1788 – 31 January 1818) was a French lieutenant during the Napoleonic Wars. He was also the second husband of Anne Louise Germaine de Staël.\n\nDe Rocca was born in Geneva, Republic of Geneva, in 1788. He served in the French army during the Peninsular war and was seriously injured. After returning to Geneva, he had an affair with Germaine de Staël, who, exiled from Paris by Napoleon, lived in her castle at nearby Coppet. The lady bore a son on 7 April 1812, whose father legitimated as Louis-Alphonse Rocca. They separated when Madame de Staël started on a European tour, to reach London through Vienna, Moscow, St. Petersburg and Stockholm. Later they married and moved together to Paris after Waterloo and Napoleon's second abdication. On 5 January 1817 Germaine de Staël suffered a seizure left her paralysed. De Staël subsequently died on 14 July 1817, soon followed by de Rocca, who died in Hyères on 31 January 1818.\n\nDe Rocca left two descriptions of the military events in which he was involved: \"Mémoire sur la guerre des Français en Espagne\" and \"La campagne de Walcheren et d'Anvers\" (a failed landing by the British in Kingdom of Holland and Belgium)\". His portrait as Hussard de Chamborant, with his horse \"Sultan\", an oil on cloth by Pierre - Louis Bouvier, still decorates Madame de Staël's bedroom in Coppet.\n\nHis son Louis-Alphonse married Marie Louise Barthelot de Rambuteau, daughter of Claude-Philibert Barthelot, comte de Rambuteau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258716", "title": "Robert Skeris", "text": "Robert Skeris\n\nRobert A. Skeris is an American Roman Catholic priest. He has been based in the Archdiocese of Milwaukee since 1961. He earned a Master of Arts (MA) degree in Liturgical Studies from the University of Notre Dame and studied at the Universities of Cologne and Bonn in Germany. He earned his Doctor of Theology in 1975 from the University of Bonn.\n\nSkeris was influential in founding (and was intimately involved with) the \"Consociatio Internationalis Musicae Sacrae\". As Associate Professor of Theology at the University of Dallas, he taught liturgy, sacramental theology, ecclesiology and apologetics, as well as church music at the adjacent Holy Trinity Seminary. \n\nAfter having pursued further research in hymnology at the University of Southern California and the Claremont Colleges, Skeris was appointed Director of the Hymnology Section at the International Institute for Hymnological and Ethno-Musicological Studies in Maria Laach in 1978, where he worked for the West German Bishops' Conference and the Academy of Science in Mainz as researcher in charge of the Roman Catholic contribution to the joint ecumenical project \"Das Deutsche Kirchenlied\", a critical edition of congregational hymns printed in the German language area between 1481 and 1800. \n\nHaving served from 1986 through 1989 as Professor and Prefetto della Casa at the Pontifical Institute of Sacred Music in Rome, where he also had been named Consultor to the Vatican's Office of Pontifical Ceremonies, Skeris joined the faculty of Christendom College in 1990. Through the decade of his service at Christendom as Associate Chaplain, Chairman of the Theology Department, director of the Christendom College Choir and Schola Gregoriana, and organizer of the annual summer Church Music Colloquium, he made Christendom College not only a center of intellectual renewal, but a genuine center for the restoration of the sacred. He has been Professor Emeritus of Sacred Theology since 2000. \n\n\nSkeris is a Knight Commander of the Equestrian Order of the Holy Sepulchre, and President Emeritus of CMAA (the Church Music Association of America).\n\nCurrently, he is Director of the Centre for Ward Method Studies at the B.T. Rome School of Music at The Catholic University of America (CUA).\n\n"}
{"id": "2258719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258719", "title": "Deathday Party", "text": "Deathday Party\n\nDeathday (formerly Deathday Party) is a Los Angeles-based Experimental Post-punk band, formed in Santa Ana, California in 2008 by brothers Alex Guillén and Giovanni Guillén. Previous incarnations of the group can be traced back to Santa Ana's Koo's scene of the late 1990s.\n\nDeathday made their live debut with a performance at Los Angeles venue, The Smell, in September 2008 and began performing around Los Angeles as a duo accompanied by vintage drum machine. As their sound progressed and became more focused, Joevanie Lopez was recruited to add drums and expand the outfit’s execution.\n\nIn 2009, the trio began to work on what would become their debut album amidst the summer heat, immersing themselves in isolation, dark iconography, occultism, and American violence. To capture the aesthetics of the subject matter musically, the band exercised heavy use of tape saturation and manipulation, recording on everything from reel-to-reels to boomboxes. Cascading through a plethora of tape mediums and analog devices intentionally gave the recordings a sense of urgency and decay. In October 2010, these recordings emerged in the form of Ghost Pains, a self-released EP.\n\nUpon its release, Ghost Pains captured the attention of French label, Desire, at which point, label head Jérôme Mestre requested the band expand the EP to a full-length. The band added one more song to the now self-titled album: “Charles Joseph Whitman,” a song recounting the 1966 shooting rampage of the Austin tower sniper, and the last song written for the album. Incidentally, the band entered the studio for that final day of recording on January 8, 2011, the same day as the 2011 Tucson shooting of Senator Gabrielle Giffords. The dread of these events lies like a fog over the album.\n\nDeathday was released on March 6, 2012.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258724", "title": "Piotr Trochowski", "text": "Piotr Trochowski\n\nPiotr Artur Trochowski (, ; born 22 March 1984) is a retired German professional footballer who played as an attacking midfielder. According to his FIFA World Cup 2010 profile he is a playmaker known for \"his speed, agility, tricky dribbling and refined technique.\"\n\nFormed at Bayern Munich, he spent six-and-a-half seasons at Hamburger SV before transferring to Sevilla in 2011. Sevilla cancelled his contract in September 2014, after which he filed a lawsuit. In 2015, he signed for FC Augsburg on a one-year deal.\n\nTrochowski made his full international debut for Germany in 2006, and earned 35 caps over four years. He was part of their squads which reached the UEFA Euro 2008 Final and the semi-finals of the 2010 FIFA World Cup.\n\nTrochowski was born in Tczew in Poland. The family, with father Wiesław and mother Alicja, left for Hamburg under the right of return when Piotr was five years old. All of his grandparents held German nationality for some period of time.\n\nAs a nine-year-old boy, Trochowski started his career with Billstedt Horn and then played for SC Concordia and FC St. Pauli, in Hamburg. In 1999, he got transferred to FC Bayern Munich, starting with its junior side then progressing to the amateur team. He made it also to Bayern's first team but was never a regular in this side, making only 13 appearances in the Bundesliga.\n\nIn January 2005, he moved back to Hamburg to play for Hamburger SV. Team manager Thomas Doll gave him a chance and Trochowski proved his worth. Within two seasons, he played himself into the starting line-up of the team, scoring five goals (including one [and an assist] against former team Bayern Munich, in a 24 September 2005 2–0 home win) in his first full season as Hamburg reached the UEFA Champions League.\n\nOn 5 April 2011, Trochowski's agent Roman Grill confirmed that his client would move to Sevilla when his contract expired at the end of the season. He had been an irregular player for Hamburg during the second half of the season, making just two starts out of 11 possible Bundesliga matches after the winter break. In his first season with the club, he featured in 35 La Liga games, scoring one goal and providing two assists as Sevilla finished in a disappointing ninth place.\n\nOn 15 September 2012, he smashed in a half-volley after only 69 seconds, to hand his side a 1–0 victory over reigning La Liga champions Real Madrid.\n\nIn September 2014, Sevilla stated that the club and Trochowski terminated the contract by mutual consent. He disagreed threatening a lawsuit against the club which he later went through with.\n\nOn 16 July 2015, Trochowski joined the Bundesliga club FC Augsburg for a short trial before signing a full contract with Augsburg until the end of the 2015–16 season five days later. Having made few appearances due to injuries, he was released by Augsburg at the end of the season.\n\nHe later retired.\n\nSince Trochowski was born in Poland, he was eligible to play for Poland. His mother sent several letters to the Polish Football Association (PZPN), informing it about her talented son and about his willingness to cap for Poland. The PZPN, however, was not interested, which disappointed both Trochowski and his mother, and he chose to play for Germany. Trochowski said in response, \"My heart is closer to Poland, but nobody there was interested in me, so I play for the Germans. There was no reply to my mother's letter, and the Germans were interested in me.\" He said this in an interview in August 2005. In the German daily \"Die Welt\", however, Trochowski said that, \"Even back then, I wanted to play for Germany, because here I enjoyed my schooling and gained my footballing skills.\"\n\nTrochowski played for the German under-20 team at the 2003 FIFA World Youth Championship. One year after his move to Hamburg, senior national coach Joachim Löw called him for the first time, and he debuted on 7 October 2006 in a friendly against Georgia at the Ostseestadion in Rostock; he started the game and was replaced by Torsten Frings for the final 14 minutes of the 2–0 victory. After having appeared six times during the qualification matches, Trochowski was selected for the final 23-man squad for Euro 2008, but was unused as Germany reached the final. He scored his first international goal on 15 October 2008, the sole goal in a 2010 World Cup Qualifier against Wales in Mönchengladbach.\n\nPiotr is part of a football family – his three brothers are all semi-professional players: Christoph (plays for SC V/W Billstedt), Sławomir (plays for Hamm United) and Arkadiusz (plays for TuS Hamburg).\n\nHis cousin Krystian is a German international rugby union player, playing for the Berliner RC in the Rugby-Bundesliga.\n\n\nBayern Munich\n\nHamburger SV\n\nSevilla\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258733", "title": "Mental Health Act", "text": "Mental Health Act\n\nMental Health Act is a stock short title used for legislation relating to mental health law.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258741", "title": "Archana Airways", "text": "Archana Airways\n\nArchana Airways was a regional airline based in New Delhi, India. It operated domestic scheduled services with a fleet of turboprop aircraft from 1994 to 2000.\n\nArchana Airways Limited was founded on 29 April 1991 and started its full service operation in 1993 with three brand new Czech built L-410 UVP-E9, 17 seater commuter aircraft. In 1994 the company was granted scheduled airlines status by Government of India through Director General of Civil Aviation, New Delhi.\n\nSeeing the quality of service provided by Archana Airways, in 1994, it was approached by MPAVN (now MPSIDC) to connect some sectors in State of Madhya Pradesh and also subscribe equity of the company as co-promoter.\n\nArchana was among the smallest of the 30 old aviation companies which had come into being by 1994. The airline quickly set up in-house facilities, for overhaul of aircraft and training programs for pilots, cabin attendants, traffic assistants and security staff.\n\nArchana was operating its schedule flight to Kullu, Shimla, Jaipur, Udaipur and Jodhpur sector.\n\nIn the beginning of 1995, to connect more sectors, the company planned an expansion to acquire bigger capacity aircraft. The plan was to acquire two new DASH-8 Aircraft on deferred credit basis.\n\nThe company was having three L410 (17 Seater) aircraft out of which two aircraft met with an accidents in Kanpur ('96) and Kullu ('96). The company acquired three new Let L-410 aircraft during 96–97. The promoters started feeling credit crunch and were unable to pay the instalments of the aircraft. The company incurred heavy losses due to low load factors and high cost of operation. In 2000, it went out of business.\n\nAs of October 1994, Archana Airways served the following cities:\n\n\n\n\nArchana Airways operated the Bombardier Dash 8 aircraft. It formerly operated Let L-410 aircraft.\n\nArchana Airways Limited has been taken over by Ascent Pinnacle Capital Limited\n"}
{"id": "2258757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258757", "title": "James Lindgren", "text": "James Lindgren\n\nJames Lindgren is a professor of law at Northwestern University. Born in 1952 in Rockford, Illinois, Lindgren graduated from Yale College (1974, cum laude) and the University of Chicago Law School (1977), where he was an editor of the \"University of Chicago Law Review\". He received his Ph.D. in Sociology from the University of Chicago in 2009.\n\nAfter two years of private practice in estate planning and litigation in Chicago, Lindgren became a Project Director at the American Bar Foundation, a think tank specializing in Law & Society. Before coming to the Northwestern faculty in 1996, Lindgren taught at several law schools, including the Universities of Connecticut, Virginia, Texas, and Chicago, and Chicago Kent College of Law. Lindgren has published in most major law reviews, including the \"Yale Law Journal\" and the \"Harvard, Columbia, Stanford, California, Northwestern, Georgetown, UCLA, University of Pennsylvania\", and \"University of Chicago Law Reviews\".\n\nLindgren’s work spans a broad range of fields, though the majority of his recent work involves empirical research, public opinion, viewpoint diversity, estates, probate, aging, or retirement. His articles, \"Counting Guns in Early America\" and \"Fall from Grace\", both of which involve detailed analyses of the physical culture of early America as revealed in probate records, are among the most downloaded law review articles ever published. His historical and doctrinal work on extortion was adopted by the Supreme Court in \"United States v. Evans\" (1992), which held that bribery behavior could be punished as extortion under the federal Hobbs Act. Lindgren is a cofounder of the Section on Scholarship of the Association of American Law Schools and a former chair of its Section on Social Science and the Law.\n\nLindgren was a leading critic and investigator of charges of scholarly impropriety against pro-gun-control scholar Michael Bellesiles, who eventually resigned\nand had his Bancroft Prize rescinded.\nLater he investigated charges about a single-sentence claim in anti-gun-control scholar John Lott's book, \"More Guns, Less Crime\", concluding that Lott's behavior was \"troubling\".\n\nLindgren blogs at the weblog \"The Volokh Conspiracy\", where he primarily blogs about politics from a libertarian perspective. \n\nLindgren has long supported abortion rights and legally recognizing same-sex marriages.\n\nJames Lindgren's work on extortion laws was cited by the United States Supreme Court in Evans v. United States, 504 U.S. 255 where the Court said \"[a]s we explained above, our construction of the statute is informed by the common law tradition from which the term of art was drawn and understood. We hold today that the Government need only show that a public official has obtained a payment to which he was not entitled, knowing that the payment was made in return for official acts.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "2258764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258764", "title": "Jigme Lingpa", "text": "Jigme Lingpa\n\nJigme Lingpa (1730–1798) was a Tibetan \"tertön\" of the Nyingma lineage of Tibetan Buddhism. He was the promulgator of the Longchen Nyingthik, the Heart Essence teachings of Longchenpa, from whom, according to tradition, he received a vision in which the teachings were revealed. The Longchen Nyingthik eventually became the most famous and widely practiced cycle of Dzogchen teachings.\n\nPrefiguring Jamgon Kongtrul's creation of the \"Five Collections\", Jigme Lingpa gathered Nyingma texts that had become rare, starting with Nyingma tantras held in the manuscript collection of the Mindrolling Monastery. This collection of the Nyingma tantras led to the amassing of the \"Nyingma Gyübum\" (, \"Collection of Nyingma Tantras\") for which Getse Mahapandita wrote the catalogue, proofread and arranged for its printing by soliciting the expensive and labour-intensive project of carving the woodblocks for the woodblock printing. The wood block carving was forded through the patronage of the royal family of Derge () of Kham, who favoured and honoured Jigme Lingpa. Getse Mahapandita also arranged for the printing of texts by Jigme Lingpa and Longchenpa. Getse Mahapandita proofread the works of Jigme Lingpa, Longchenpa and the \"Nyingma Gyübum\".\n\nJigme also wrote a nine-volume history of the Nyingma school of Tibetan Buddhism and other works. His non-sectarian presentation of the Madhyamaka (Middle Way view) follows Je Tsongkhapa's system.\n\nA major precursor of the Rimé movement, Jigme Lingpa had many distinguished disciples in all four lineages. The first Dodrupchen Rinpoche, Dodrupchen Jigme Trinle Ozer, became his main lineage-holder. Among those held by tradition to be Jigme Lingpa's reincarnations are Ye shes rdo rje, the Mdo mkhyen brtse ye shes rdo rje (1800–66, his mind-emanation), Patrul Rinpoche (speech-emanation) and Jamyang Khyentse Wangpo (body-emanation). In Bhutan his tradition is held by successive incarnation of the Padtselling tulku and Jikmé Kündröl Namgyel. Both Druptop Namgyel Lhündrup, 1st Padtselling Tulku (1718-1786) and Jigmé Tenpé Gyeltshen, 2nd Padtselling Tulku (1788-1850) were students of Jigme Lingpa.\n\nJigme Lingpa, translated by Sam van Schaik, states how his learnings commenced and he mentions grammar, the \"glorious Chimpu\" site of Samye (, the cave wherein Padmasambhava first transmitted the Vajrayana lineage in Tibet) vajra, and Longchenpa: \n\nJanet Gyatso, in mentioning Rigdzin Kumaradza, Ganachakra, the Anglo-Nepalese War, beer and black magic, states that:\nWhen explaining the transmission and reception of the 'treasures' (Tibetan: terma) of 'The Words of the Omniscient One' () and 'The White Lotus' () Jigme Lingpa makes reference to an admixture of 'mindstream' (), 'Absolute [Truth]' () and 'adhishthana' () and van Schaik (2004: p. 45) has rendered the Tibetan in English as follows : \"the blessing of the truth-continuum\" (), \"the blessing of the continuum\" (), and \"the transmission-blessing of symbols and words\" ().\n\nJigme Lingpa was a reincarnation of two important masters, Vimalamitra and King Trisong Deutsen. As the embodiment of these two figures, Tibet's two primary Dzogchen lineages were combined in him—the Vima Nyingtik and Khandro Nyingtik, both of which are contained in the \"Nyingtik Yapshi\". Hence, the Longchen Nyingthig terma cycle is considered a condensation of these profound teachings.\n\nThe texts that were revealed by Jigme Lingpa, in their present-day form, comprise three volumes known as the \"Nyingtik Tsapö\" (). The numerous treatises, sadhanas and prayers it contains deal primarily with tantric practice, in particular the generation stage and Dzogchen.\n\nJikmé Lingpa discovered the Longchen Nyingtik teachings as mind terma at the age of twenty-eight. Tulku Thondup writes:\nIn this vision, the wisdom dakinis gave Jikmé Lingpa a casket containing five yellow scrolls and seven crystal beads. One of the scrolls contained the prophetic guide of Longchen Nyingtik, called Nechang Thukkyi Drombu. At the instruction of a dakini, he ate the yellow scrolls and crystal beads, and all the words and meaning of the Longchen Nyingtik terma were awakened in his mind.\n\nJikmé Lingpa kept this terma secret for years, and he did not even transcribe the terma until he entered another retreat in which he had a series of visions of Longchen Rabjam. Tulku Thondup explains:\n\n\"The Loud Laugh of the Dakini\" () is a Chöd sādhanā from the \"Longchen Nyingtik\".\n\nJigme Lingpa is also renowned for his autobiographical works, primarily his outer autobiographies found in his nine-volume \"Collected Works\" alongside his \"Heart Sphere\" cycle and other historical works. Most notably, his autobiographical works showed the dynamics of relationships between Tibetan Buddhist visionaries and lay political figures. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258765", "title": "Dig It (Beatles song)", "text": "Dig It (Beatles song)\n\n\"Dig It\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles from their 1970 album \"Let It Be\". The song is credited to Lennon/McCartney/Harrison/Starkey; it is one of the few songs to be credited to all of the Beatles. This song and the 39-second \"Maggie Mae\" appear on the \"Let It Be\" album, but are excluded from the \"Let It Be... Naked\" album, instead being replaced with \"Don't Let Me Down\". Glyn Johns' May 1969 version of the album, then titled \"Get Back\", had a 3:59 excerpt of \"Dig It\", which was later reduced to the much shorter version in the final album.\n\nSeveral versions were recorded during the \"Get Back\"/\"Let It Be\" sessions, on 24, 26, 27, 28, and 29 January 1969, at Apple Studio. The 51-second version on the album is an extract taken from the 26 January version, which was a 15-minute jam that evolved from a loose \"Like a Rolling Stone\" jam. A segment of the jam session, 4 minutes and 30 seconds in length, appears in the documentary film \"Let It Be\". The participants in that session are John Lennon on vocals and 6-string bass, George Harrison on guitar, Paul McCartney on piano, Ringo Starr on drums, George Martin on maracas and Billy Preston at the organ; also participating in the jam, but not heard on the released version, was Linda Eastman's six-year-old daughter Heather. Eastman later became McCartney's wife.\n\nIn the early part of the jam, Lennon sings the main lyric with interjections from Harrison, while Heather adds wordless vocals. As the performance winds down, Lennon exhorts the others to continue. McCartney adds a baritone backup vocal of \"dig it up, dig it up, dig it up\" and variations, and Lennon begins to repeat \"Like a rolling stone\", then goes into the \"famous persons\" part (mentioning \"the FBI\", \"the CIA\", \"the BBC\", \"B.B. King\", and \"Doris Day\" then \"Matt Busby\").\n\nThe excerpt on the \"Let It Be\" album fades in on Lennon's second \"Like a rolling stone\" and concludes with Lennon speaking in a falsetto: \"That was 'Can You Dig It?' by Georgie Wood, and now we'd like to do 'Hark, the Angels Come'.\" The second sentence of that line is cut off in \"Let It Be\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s film recording of the jam session. (\"Wee Georgie Wood\" was a 4'9\" music-hall performer and child star.) The interjection actually comes from the first version, recorded on the 24th. This version was much different, described by Beatles bootleg scholars Doug Sulpy and Ray Schweighardt as \"sounding like a cross between the traditional 'Sailor's Hornpipe' and a slowed down rendition of Neal Hefti's 'Batman,' as played on slide guitar.\" An excerpt from this version (entitled \"Can You Dig It?\") can be heard on the \"Fly on the Wall\" bonus disc to \"Let It Be... Naked\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258767", "title": "Robert Groves Sandeman", "text": "Robert Groves Sandeman\n\nSir Robert Groves Sandeman, KCSI (1835–1892) was a British Indian Army officer and colonial administrator. He was known for his activities in Balochistan, where he introduced a system of \"tribal pacification\" that endured until the partition of India in 1947.\n\nSandeman was born on 25 February 1835, the son of General Robert Turnbull Sandeman. He was educated at Perth and University of St Andrews, and joined the 33rd Bengal Infantry in 1856. When that regiment was disarmed at Phillour by General John Nicholson during the Indian Rebellion of 1857, he took part in the final capture of Lucknow as adjutant of the IInd Bengal Lancers. After the suppression of the Mutiny he was appointed to the Punjab Commission by Sir John Lawrence.\n\nIn 1866 he was appointed district officer of Dera Ghazi Khan, and there first showed his capacity in dealing with the Baluch tribes. He was the first to break through the close-border system of Lord Lawrence by extending British influence to the independent tribes beyond the border. In his hands this policy worked admirably, owing to his tact in managing the tribesmen and his genius for control. \n\nIn February 1871, he was given political control over the warring Marri, Bugti and Mazari tribes of the Sulaiman Hills at the Mithankot conference between the then governments of Punjab and Sindh provinces.\n\nIn 1876, with the help of Nawab Sir Imam Baksh Khan Mazari of Rojhan, he negotiated the Treaty of Kalat with the Khan of Kalat, which subsequently governed relations between Kalat and the government. He became agent to the governor-general of Balochistan in 1877, an office which he held until his death.\n\nSandeman introduced an innovative system of tribal pacification in Balochistan, informally termed 'Sandemanization', that was in effect from 1877 to 1947. He gave financial allowances to tribal chiefs who enforced control, and used British military force only when necessary. However, the Government of India generally opposed his Forward Policy methods and refused to allow it to operate in India's North West Frontier. Historians have long debated its scope and effectiveness in his mostly peaceful spread of Imperial influence. \n\nDuring the Second Afghan War in 1878 his influence over the tribesmen was of the utmost importance, since it enabled him to keep intact the line of communications with Kandahar, and to control the tribes after the British disaster at Maiwand. For these services he was made K.C.S.I. in 1879. In 1889 he occupied the Zhob valley, a strategic advantage which opened the Gomal Pass through the Waziri country to caravan traffic. Sandeman's system was not so well suited to the Pashtun as to his Baluch neighbours. But in Balochistan he was a pioneer, a pacificator and a successful administrator, who converted the region from a state of complete anarchy into a province as orderly as any in British India. \n\nSandeman died at Bela, the capital of Las Bela state, on 29 January 1892. His nephew by his sister Julia was Walter Massy-Greene, who became a cabinet minister in Australia.\n\nRecent scholarship in postcolonial studies and on colonial Balochistan has disputed this overtly laudatory account of Sandeman's life and career as explicated in books such as Tucker's \"Sir Robert G. Sandeman: Peaceful Conqueror of Balochistan\" and Bruce's \"The Forward Policy and its Results\". At a conceptual level, the idea of colonial rulers bringing order to the colonized territory has been questioned by authors such as Edward Said and Nicholas Dirks who argue that this myth resulted from a misunderstanding of (mostly unwritten) local social and cultural norms. It was the product of an effort to make alien peoples and territories governable through the invention of categories of savage and civilized. In respect of colonial Balochistan, Simanti Dutta points out that Sandeman skillfully exploited an existing rift between the Baloch ruler, the Khan of Kalat, and his subordinate tribal chiefs to leverage his influence and project British power into a region which was strategically significant in the context of Anglo-Russian rivalry in Afghanistan. A careful examination of historical records suggests that there were a number of armed uprisings against British rule in Balochistan during and after Sandeman's tenure which had to be put down through the use of lethal force and imposition of crippling financial penalties on the defaulting tribes. \n\n"}
{"id": "2258775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258775", "title": "South Normanton", "text": "South Normanton\n\nSouth Normanton is a village and civil parish in the Bolsover District of Derbyshire, England. The population at the 2011 Census (including Upper Birchwood) was 9,445. An ex-mining village, it is located two miles east of Alfreton and is approximately 510 feet above sea level at one of its highest points, near St. Michael and All Angels Parish Church near the middle of town. The historic industries of the village were agriculture, stocking, spinning and mining. Normanton means 'the farm of the north men' or 'Northwegans'. It was a purely agricultural settlement but added tanning as a secondary industry during medieval times, using the bark of the oak and birch, both plentiful in the area. In the 18th and 19th centuries, the main industries were framework knitting and mining. The knitters, or shiners as they were known from the state of their trouser seats after a 14-hour day sitting at their machines, tended to live in certain areas, around the Dog Pool, along Water Lane and particularly up the narrow alleys around the Old Market place. South Normanton Colliery closed in 1952, B Winning in 1964 and A Winning in 1969. Carnfield Hall was for several centuries the seat of the Revel family. The hall contains a varied collection of antique furniture, porcelain and glass, family portraits and much more. It is now a family home shown to the public by the present owners. The township also includes the housing estate of Broadmeadows although the housing estate is divided between the parishes of South Normanton and Pinxton. South Normanton is also home to the East Midlands Designer Outlet.\n\nBefore 1888 South Normanton was a small hamlet concerned with farming activities. There were very few buildings in the area and only a small track road leading to the settlement.\nAround 1888 the only houses that were there were a few cottages around the church of St Michael, on the hilltop in South Normanton Centre and the Windmill. The church was also there of course. All the settlement and buildings at this point were clustered around the main road along the roadsides of what is now Church Street and Market Street (a linear settlement). There were farming fields around the arched shaped village.\n\nAround 1921 the village began its main industry of mining. Many people moved in from the surrounding countryside to work in the mines. The wages they earned were better than the crops that they grew in the fields as security so they came to the village in their hundreds. Many terraced houses were built to accommodate them. These were small and cheap housing for the poor people that came, the streets around Peel Street, South Street and Albert Street. More houses were built on Berristow Lane and Carter Lane East. At this time there was one infant school called Hamlet Lane School. The population of the village grew dramatically. Notice on the 1921 map that the 'hamlet' remains.\n\nAround 1957 the government and councils of Britain were concerned about the lot of poor people in the country and began a house building programme to improve the housing. In South Normanton New Street and Hilcote Street were built (new street shows up on the 1880 to 1888 map of south normanton and hilcote st shows up on the 1900 map along with half of downing street) along with King Street and other such areas. Schools were built to educate the children of the villagers and shops sprang up to serve the community. At the same time some houses were beginning to spring up along the main roads of Market Street and Mansfield Road. The schools included; Glebe Junior School, New Street Secondary School, Green Infant School and Brigg Infant School.\nIn the period after the Second World War the council built an estate to give some of the residents of South Normanton the chance to rent very high quality housing. This was known as council housing. The streets in South Normanton that were built were along Lansbury Drive. The secondary school (Frederick Gent School) was built in 1959 also helped cater for the growing population.\n\nAfter the 1980s there had been a huge infilling around South Normanton. The areas of Broadmeadows, Rippon Homes and newer housing areas were built. These were higher cost housing for the private market. Major roads had also been built including the M1 motorway creating easier access to the village and surrounding area for car owners. The East Midlands Designer Outlet (owned by McArthurGlen Group) is located near the edge of the settlement close to the M1.\n\nBroadmeadows is a newly built housing estate partly in South Normanton. The estate is built on the borders of the parishes of South Normanton and Pinxton. The first named street on the Broadmeadows estate was The Broadlands. Property number 1 was named by the Smith family as 'Broadlands' prior to numbering of the new street. With the addition of 'The Broadlands' the street name was duly adopted by the parish council shortly thereafter.\n\nSouth Normanton has some sporting facilities. <br>\nThe village is home to South Normanton Athletic F.C. and it also has many Sunday and Saturday teams such as Carnfield F.C., a Grassroots Football Charter Standard Club (South Normanton Colts Football Club, catering for Under 7s to under 17s), and a Mini Colts soccer skills group (www.sncfc.co.uk).\n\nA few footballers from the village went on to play professionally, such as Lee Holmes (formerly of Derby County), Jordan Smith (Nottingham Forest) and Chris Martin (formerly of Nottingham Forest and Port Vale).\n\nThere are three professional footballers, currently playing in the football league.\n\nSouth Normanton is also home to the South Normanton School of Boxing catering for all ages from 10 upwards; the South Normanton Cricket Club was formed in 1990; and the South Normanton Cycling Club most commonly known as 'SNCC'.\n\n\nThe village is in an area which can pick up the television signals of East Midlands, West Midlands, Yorkshire, East Riding of Yorkshire and Lincolnshire.\n\nThe radio stations that cover the village are Peak FM, Amber Sound FM, Mansfield 103.2 FM, Radio Derby and Radio Nottingham.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258776", "title": "Stéphane Freiss", "text": "Stéphane Freiss\n\nStéphane Freiss (born 22 November 1960) is a French film, television, and stage actor. He won a César Award for his performance in the 1988 film \"Chouans!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2258803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258803", "title": "IEC 60364", "text": "IEC 60364\n\nIEC 60364 \"Electrical Installations for Buildings\" is the International Electrotechnical Commission's international standard on \"electrical installations of buildings\". This standard is an attempt to harmonize national wiring standards in an IEC standard and is published in the European Union by CENELEC as \"HD 60364\". The latest versions of many European wiring regulations (e.g., BS 7671 in the UK) follow the section structure of IEC 60364 very closely, but contain additional language to cater for historic national practice and to simplify field use and determination of compliance by electrical tradesmen and inspectors. National codes and site guides are meant to attain the common objectives of IEC 60364, and provide rules in a form that allows for guidance of persons installing and inspecting electrical systems.\n\nThe standard has several parts:\n\n"}
{"id": "2258805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258805", "title": "Oasis Hong Kong Airlines", "text": "Oasis Hong Kong Airlines\n\nOasis Hong Kong Airlines Limited () was a long-haul Asian airline. It operated scheduled services to London Gatwick Airport and Vancouver International Airport from its hub, Hong Kong International Airport. The airline offered low fares as its selling technique, which was similar to the operation principle of a low-cost airline.\n\nOasis was one of a growing number of long-haul passenger airlines, such as Zoom Airlines, to adopt a budget airline model pioneered by the now defunct Laker Airways Skytrain service in the 1970s. Oasis offered non-stop service from Hong Kong to London, and began a service to Vancouver on 28 June 2007. The airline was voted \"World's Leading New Airline\" at the Annual World Travel Awards 2007.\n\nMuch of the original success of Oasis Hong Kong was due to the airline's widely advertised minimum fares beginning at just GBP£75 one way. However, fares later became much less competitive.\n\nOn 9 April 2008, Oasis's CEO Stephen Miller announced at a press conference that the company would cease operations after suffering an accumulated loss of HK$1 billion (US$128 million) since its launch in October 2006. Accounting firm KPMG was appointed provisional liquidator by the airline.\n\nOasis Hong Kong Airlines was founded by Rev. Raymond C. Lee, and his wife, Priscilla H. Lee in February 2005. The chief executive, Steve Miller, was founder and first chief executive of another Hong Kong-based airline, Dragonair.\nIts inaugural route to London commenced service on 26 October 2006, The first flight, flight O8 700, took off from Hong Kong International Airport after a 24-hour delay. The airline had been scheduled to begin operations on 25 October, but Russia revoked the London-bound flight's fly-over rights at 12:09 pm, one hour before the flight's scheduled departure.\n\nOasis originally operated as a low-fare airline, and claimed that it had already broken-even after the first six months of operations. The airline said that this was achieved through flying long-haul so as to decrease maintenance and fuel costs. It also has a lower cost per passenger-kilometer compared to other airlines in Hong Kong. Business passengers, and those who used to have to transfer en route to get to London, would be Oasis' main sources of revenue. Like many other airlines, Oasis planned to hedge a proportion of its fuel purchases to guard against future fuel price increases.\n\nOasis's subsequent liquidation proved the airline's unviability in practice. In an attempt to be competitive, the airline offered lower than sustainable fares leading to rapidly accumulating losses. Oasis also faced stiff competition by a number of well established carriers operating on its Hong Kong-London route including Cathay Pacific, British Airways, Qantas, Air New Zealand and Virgin Atlantic, and by the fact that its competitors flew into the more convenient and centrally located Heathrow while Oasis was consigned to Gatwick.\n\nOasis Hong Kong Airlines was liquidated on 9 April 2008. The last flight, flight O8 901, departed from Vancouver at 10:15 am and arrived at Hong Kong at 3:09 pm. The liquidator KPMG China announced the liquidation at 2 pm on that day and over the following few days it would conduct a search for potential buyers for the airline. \nOn 8 July 2008, it was announced that unsecured creditors of collapsed Oasis Hong Kong Airlines, including ticket holders, will eventually receive no more than 10 percent of what they are owed, according to the airline's provisional liquidator, KPMG.\n\nOn 16 September 2008, this estimate was reduced to 'less than 5%'. No timetable was given for distribution of these funds.\n\nTickets were sold through the company website and travel agents. One-way fares between Hong Kong and London were launched from £75 or HK$1,000 (excluding taxes and charges), but there were actually four fare classes. As time went on fares became uncompetitive with airlines such as Air New Zealand and British Airways offering full-service for a similar price and flying from the more convenient Heathrow and supply varied from time to time.\n\nSeat pitch of economyOasis was 32\" (the same as Cathay Pacific and Air Canada; one inch more than British Airways and Virgin Atlantic), and a businessOasis section offered at least 50\" seat pitch. The 747-400 cabins were configured for 81 business and 278 economy passengers or 71 business and 268 economy passengers, in which a section of what were First Class seats were sold as Business Class.\n\nTwo hot meals and soft drinks were served free on both long haul routes in all classes. Snacks and alcoholic drinks were also free for business class passengers and available to be ordered in economy. Free headphones, blankets and pillows were also distributed in all classes, while passengers could purchase noise-canceling headphones and amenity kits on board. Each passenger had personal seat-back TV which had at least 16 channels available, in addition to up to 12 channels of audio, although these were not on demand.\n\nOn 28 February 2007, Oasis Hong Kong moved all its passenger check-in operation into the newly commissioned Terminal 2 of the Hong Kong International Airport, being the first airline in Hong Kong to do so.\n\nThe airline originally operated on two routes, from Hong Kong to London Gatwick Airport and Vancouver International Airport. It expected to introduce a six-weekly service to Vancouver International Airport, the focus city of another low-cost carrier WestJet, from 28 June 2007. The airline's press release which stated that \"it's a market where there is substantially less reliance on feeder traffic\" suggested nothing about the WestJet connectivity. It was also believed that the long-awaited Oakland service (near San Francisco) would soon come on line once the Vancouver service was established. Other routes were also planned. Oasis is believed to have wanted to commence service to Chicago and New York before reaching Washington DC.\n\nOn 17 August 2007, Oasis Hong Kong Airlines expressed its interest to provide service to many destinations in Europe and Asia on the HKSAR Government website, and on 7 September 2007 expressed its interest in providing services to six destinations in North America.\n\nThe Oasis Hong Kong Airlines fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\n\nIn 2007, Oasis Hong Kong was voted \"World's Leading New Airline\" and \"Asia's Leading Budget/No Frills Airline\" at the Annual World Travel Awards 2007. It was also named \"New Airline of the Year\" by the Centre for Asia Pacific Aviation of Australia, and was voted \"Best New Service\" and \"Best Business Class Carrier\" at the 2007 World Low Cost Airline Congress Awards held in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258806", "title": "Volunteer, North Carolina", "text": "Volunteer, North Carolina\n\nVolunteer is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately east-southeast of the town of Pilot Mountain.\n"}
{"id": "2258807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258807", "title": "Paul Samwell-Smith", "text": "Paul Samwell-Smith\n\nPaul Granville Samwell-Smith (born Paul Smith, 8 May 1943, in Richmond, Surrey, England) is an English musician and record producer. He was a founding member and the bassist of the 1960s English rock band The Yardbirds, which launched leading guitarists Eric Clapton, Jeff Beck and Jimmy Page to fame. As a youth, Samwell-Smith attended Hampton School with The Yardbirds drummer Jim McCarty.\n\nWhile in The Yardbirds, he co-produced and engineered much of their music, working with record producers such as Mickie Most, Simon Napier-Bell and Giorgio Gomelsky. Samwell-Smith was a major contributor to the original tracks written by The Yardbirds during his tenure with the band. He left The Yardbirds in June 1966 to pursue a career as a record producer.\n\nIn late May 1963, he formed The Yardbirds with Keith Relf, Anthony Topham, Chris Dreja, and Jim McCarty. He mainly used an Epiphone Rivoli bass. He played on the UK albums, \"Five Live Yardbirds\" and \"Yardbirds\" (also known as \"Roger the Engineer\") and on the US albums \"For Your Love\", \"Having a Rave Up\", and \"Over Under Sideways Down\" (which was \"Roger the Engineer\" retitled for the US market), all released on Epic Records. He provided background vocals on many songs like \"Good Morning Little School Girl\", \"For Your Love\", \"Heart Full of Soul\", \"Evil Hearted You\", and more. He composed the Gregorian chant arrangements and lyrics of the songs \"Still I'm Sad\" and \"Turn Into Earth\". While in the Yardbirds he started working on the technical side in the studio. In 1966, becoming tired of touring and wanting to focus on production, he left the Yardbirds and was replaced by Jimmy Page. The last Yardbirds album he played on was \"Roger the Engineer\".\n\nIn the early 1980s, Samwell-Smith played in the Yardbirds reunion band Box of Frogs with original Yardbird members Chris Dreja and Jim McCarty. The Box of Frogs did not tour because Chris Dreja was busy with his photography and Samwell-Smith was busy in the recording studio.\n\nHe was inducted to the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame as a member of the Yardbirds in 1992.\n\nHe went on to become a successful producer with credits including the most successful albums of Cat Stevens, and in addition, Jethro Tull, Carly Simon, Renaissance, Murray Head, Chris de Burgh, Beverley Craven, Illusion and Claire Hamill, as well as producing two of Amazing Blondel's albums for Island Records, and the first and second albums by All About Eve for Mercury. Samwell-Smith also co-produced \"American Tune\" with Paul Simon.\n\nPaul Samwell-Smith was the musical producer for the film \"Harold and Maude\" in 1971, with music written by Cat Stevens, which became a cult classic. In addition, two decades later, he produced \"Postcards from the Edge\" in 1990, as a music sound recording and recording supervisor.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258809", "title": "Miguel Lifschitz", "text": "Miguel Lifschitz\n\nRoberto Miguel Lifschitz (born September 13, 1955 in Rosario, Santa Fe), is an Argentine politician and civil engineer of the Socialist Party who has been Governor of the Province of Santa Fe since 2015. Before being elected Governor at the 2015 general election, he was Mayor of Rosario from 2003 to 2011.\n\nHe obtained his degree at the Engineering Faculty of the National University of Rosario in 1979, and worked in the private sector until 1989, when he became Director-General of the Public Housing Service (\"Director General del Servicio Público de la Vivienda\") of the city of Rosario, under the socialist administration of Héctor Cavallero.\n\nHe continued working in various public offices, as Municipal Secretary-General (\"Secretario General de la Municipalidad\"), Public Services' Secretary (\"Secretario de Servicios Públicos\") and General Cabinet Coordinator for the Municipality of Rosario (\"Coordinador General de Gabinete de la Municipalidad de Rosario\"), between June and December 2003, under the administration of Hermes Binner.\n\nLifschitz ran for Mayor of Rosario and was elected in the provincial elections of 7 September 2003 for the period 2003–2007. In 2006 he began acknowledging he could run for reelection. In March 2007, a survey showed that Lifschitz would win by a wide margin over any of the other major prospective candidates (52.9% of the total votes).\nLifschitz competed in the primaries of the Progressive, Civic and Social Front, on 1 July 2007, against Carlos Comi (of ARI); he obtained around 90% of the vote. In the main election of 2 September 2007, he won his reelection for the period 2007–2011 by a landslide (57–31%) over his closest competitor, former Socialist mayor Héctor Cavallero (who ran for the Peronist-led Front for Victory).\n\nIn the elections of June 14, 2015 was elected as the new governor of the Province of Santa Fe, a position he assumed on December 10.\n"}
{"id": "2258811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258811", "title": "Northeast Delta Dental Stadium", "text": "Northeast Delta Dental Stadium\n\nNortheast Delta Dental Stadium (formerly known as Merchantsauto.com Stadium) is a stadium in Manchester, New Hampshire that holds 7,500 people. It is used primarily for baseball, and is the home field of the New Hampshire Fisher Cats minor league (AA) baseball team. The first game played at the ballpark was on April 7, 2005, between the New Britain Rock Cats and the Fisher Cats. The first concert was performed by Bob Dylan on August 27, 2006. In 2011 insurance company Northeast Delta Dental signed a 10-year contract for the ballpark's naming rights with a five-year option.\n\nThe park was built on the former Singer Park in the Manchester Millyard, a soccer (and occasionally rugby) stadium that was also used for circuses, carnivals and a summer concert series. In 2017 1,000 seats were added when renovations were done on the left field section of the park. At least a portion of the ballpark is located on the site where bricks recovered from the demolition of the Arms Textile Mill were buried. The Arms Textile Mill was the site of the deadliest outbreak of anthrax in United States history.\n\nThe ballpark is located in the downtown area along the Merrimack River, facing northwest towards the heart of downtown. The park is within walking distance of many local landmarks, including Manchester's mill district, the SNHU Arena, the WMUR television station, the University of New Hampshire at Manchester college campus, and countless restaurants, bars, and hotels. It has an open concourse, allowing fans to view the action on the field at all times, and includes 32 luxury suites that line the upper level and provide fans with a panoramic view of the field.\n\nOne of the dominant features is the Hilton Garden Inn hotel located beyond the fence in left-center field. The hotel is 7 stories high (6 excluding clock tower) and has more than 125 rooms; each room on the south side of the hotel has windows that overlook center field and have shatterproof glass due to the proximity to the park. The Hilton hotel also has a restaurant which offers outdoor patio seating directly overlooking left-center field. Delta Dental Stadium is one of the only professional baseball fields in the United States with a hotel located inside/ alongside the stadium.\n\nIn April 2008 the park opened the Sam Adams Bar and Grill, offering a buffet, full menu, and bar directly overlooking the left field of the park. The Bar and Grill is now known as the Sam Adams Brewhouse.\n\nPrior to the start of the 2017 season, the Fisher Cats announced the most ambitious renovation project in the stadium's history. Team owner Art Solomon invested a million dollars into the facility to transform the left field plaza and pavilion, adding a new tiered seating section beyond the left field wall, a state-of-the-art live music stage, a tiki bar and a rock waterfall at the top of the main entrance stairs. The project was completed in time for Opening Day 2017.\n\nOn October 21, 2006, the stadium hosted the funeral service for fallen city police officer Michael Briggs, who was shot while responding to a domestic dispute call.\n\nOn July 16, 2008, the stadium hosted a record 8,762 fans for the 2008 Northeast Delta Dental Eastern League All-Star Game. This record was surpassed on May 26, 2009 with 8,903 fans in attendance. Red Sox pitcher John Smoltz started the game for the opposing Portland Sea Dogs in a rehab start.\n\nMajor League Baseball's future stars returned for the Eastern League All-Star Game on July 13, 2011, and again in 2017 for the Eastern League All-Star Classic July 11–12. The facility is the only stadium in the league to host the game three times in a decade.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258813", "title": "Rosebud, North Carolina", "text": "Rosebud, North Carolina\n\nRosebud is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately two miles west-northwest of Walnut Cove.\n"}
{"id": "2258821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258821", "title": "Poplar Springs, Stokes County, North Carolina", "text": "Poplar Springs, Stokes County, North Carolina\n\nPoplar Springs is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately two miles east of King, on North Carolina State Highway 66.\n"}
{"id": "2258823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258823", "title": "Culebra Cut", "text": "Culebra Cut\n\nThe Culebra Cut, formerly called Gaillard Cut, is an artificial valley that cuts through the Continental Divide in Panama. The cut forms part of the Panama Canal, linking Gatun Lake, and thereby the Atlantic Ocean, to the Gulf of Panama and hence the Pacific Ocean. It is from the Pedro Miguel lock on the Pacific side to the Chagres River arm of Lake Gatun, with a water level above sea level.\n\nConstruction of the cut was one of the great engineering feats of its time; the immense effort required to complete it was justified by the great significance of the canal to shipping, and in particular the strategic interests of the United States of America.\n\n\"Culebra\" is the name for the mountain ridge it cuts through and was also originally applied to the cut itself. From 1915 to 2000 the cut was named \"Gaillard Cut\" after US Major David du Bose Gaillard, who had led the excavation. After the canal handover to Panama in 2000, the name was changed back to \"Culebra\". In Spanish the cut is known as the Corte Culebra and is also called the Snake Cut.\n\nThe excavation of the cut was begun by a French venture, led by Ferdinand de Lesseps, which was attempting to build a sea-level canal between the oceans, with a bottom width of 22 meters (72 ft). Digging at Culebra began on January 22, 1881. A combination of disease, underestimation of the problem, and financial difficulties led to the collapse of the French effort, which was bought out by the United States in 1904. The French had excavated some of material from the cut, and had lowered the summit from 64 meters (210 ft) above sea level to 59 meters (193 ft), over a relatively narrow width.\n\nThe United States took over on May 4, 1904. Under the leadership of John F. Stevens, and later George Washington Goethals, the American effort started work on a cut that was wider but not as deep, as part of a new plan for an elevated lock-based canal, with a bottom width of ; this would require creation of a valley up to wide at the top. A vast amount of new earthmoving equipment was imported, and a comprehensive system of railways was constructed for the removal of the immense amounts of earthen and rocky spoil.\n\nMajor David du Bose Gaillard, of the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers, joined the project at the same time as Goethals, and he was put in charge of the central district of the canal, which was responsible for all of the work between Gatun Lake and the Pedro Miguel locks — most notably, the Culebra Cut. Gaillard brought dedication and quiet, clear-sighted leadership to his difficult, complex task.\n\nThe scale of the work was massive. Hundreds of large steam drills bored holes in which were planted tons of dynamite, which blasted the rock of the cut so that it could be excavated by steam shovels, most made by Bucyrus-Erie. Dozens of spoils trains took the spoil from the shovels to the landfill dumps, about away. In a typical day, 160 trainloads of material were hauled away from a cut . This workload on the railroads required some skillful co-ordination. At the busiest times, there was a train going inbound or outbound almost every minute.\n\nSix thousand men worked in the cut, drilling holes, placing explosives, controlling steam shovels, and running the dirt trains. They also moved and extended the railroad tracks as the work moved forward. Twice a day work stopped for blasting, and then the steam shovels were moved in to take the loose spoil (dirt and rock) away. More than 600 holes filled with dynamite were fired daily. In all, of dynamite were used. In some locations, about of dynamite were planted and detonated for a single blast.\n\nThe excavation of the cut was one of the greatest areas of uncertainty in the creation of the canal, due to the unpredicted large landslides. The International Board of Consulting Engineers had mistakenly decided that the rock would be stable at a height of with a slope of 1 in 1.5; in practice, the rock began to collapse from that slope at a height of only . The misjudgment was in part due to unforeseen oxidation of the underlying iron strata due to water infiltration, which caused weakening and eventually a collapse of the strata. Strain softening of the underlying shale layers of sedimentary units caused continuation of sliding as the strength of the slide post-failure was reduced.\n\nThe first and largest major slide occurred in 1907 at Cucaracha. The initial crack was first noted on October 4, 1907, followed by the mass wasting of about of clay. This slide caused many people to suggest the construction of the Panama Canal would be impossible; Gaillard described the slides as tropical glaciers, made of mud instead of ice. The clay was too soft to be excavated by the steam shovels, and it was therefore largely removed by sluicing it with water from a high level.\n\nAfter this, the sediment in the upper levels of the cut were removed, resulting in less weight over the weak strata. Landslides continued to be a problem after the canal's opening, causing intermittent closures.\n\nSteam shovels broke through the Culebra Cut on May 20, 1913. The Americans had lowered the summit of the cut from to above sea level, at the same time widening it considerably, and they had excavated over of material. Some of this material was additional to the planned excavation, having been brought into the cut by the landslides.\n\nGaillard was promoted to colonel in 1913. One month later, on December 5, he died of a brain tumor in Baltimore, Maryland, and hence he did not live to see the opening of the canal in 1914. The \"Culebra Cut\", as it was originally known, was renamed to the Gaillard Cut on April 27, 1915, in his honor. After the handing over of the canal to Panama in 2000, the old name \"Culebra Cut\" was reinstated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258827", "title": "The Bat (1926 film)", "text": "The Bat (1926 film)\n\nThe Bat is a 1926 American comedy-mystery silent film directed by Roland West and starring Jack Pickford and Louise Fazenda. The film is based on the 1920 Broadway hit play \"The Bat\" by Mary Roberts Rinehart and Avery Hopwood, which itself was an adaptation of Rinehart's 1908 mystery novel \"The Circular Staircase.\"\n\nGideon Bell, owner of the Favre Emeralds, receives a letter stating that the emeralds will be stolen at midnight by \"the Bat\", and that police will not be able to stop the robbery. The Bat, a figure dressed as a bat, murders Gideon and steals the emeralds. The Bat leaves a bat-shaped note for the chief of police to inform him that he will be traveling to the country. The Bat travels by car to a mansion built by Courtleigh Fleming, the president of the Oakdale Bank, who has recently been found dead in Colorado. The mansion is being rented for the summer by writer Cornelia Van Gorder, whose maid, Lizzie Allen, sets up a bear trap to catch the Bat. Richard Fleming, Courtleigh's spendthrift nephew, wishes to lease the mansion, and plans with Dr. H. E. Wells to frighten Van Gorder away.\n\nThe newspaper reports that Brooks Bailey, a cashier at Oakdale Bank, has robbed the bank of $200,000 and has disappeared. Van Gorder's niece, Miss Dale Ogden, arrives with a supposed new gardener. Van Gorder asks the gardener about his knowledge on alopecia, urticaria, and rubeola, and he answers as if the terms referred to plants rather than medical conditions. On the staircase, Richard is shot, and Miss Dale manages to snatch part of a blueprint of the house from his pocket. Detective Moletti accuses her of trying to find a supposed hidden room in the mansion that should be shown on the blueprint. Detective Anderson arrives, and the group gets a call from the house phone in the garage, which sounds like groans of distress. A circular light shines on the wall, with the shadow of a bat in its center, but after investigating, the group finds that the shape was caused by a miller moth on a car headlight.\n\nDr. Wells has Miss Dale recreate Richard's murder, and she notes that she tucked the blueprint in a Parker House roll on a tray, but the blueprint is now gone. The new gardener is revealed to be Brooks Bailey, and Anderson attempts to arrest him for robbery, murder, and impersonation, but Miss Dale stops him, revealing that she and Brooks are engaged. Dr. Wells searches for the hidden room by knocking on walls, which causes the others to investigate the sound, leading them to a ballroom which is supposedly haunted. The candles in the ballroom go out when lit, and a shape appears to float towards Anderson and Lizzie, but it turns out to be the Japanese butler Billy carrying a lamp. After being confronted by Moletti, Dr. Wells knocks Moletti unconscious by striking his head, and he hides Moletti's body in another room. A beaten man enters the house, and Anderson finds that he has no identification on his person.\n\nBilly sees a mysterious figure wearing a hat, and as he leaves to tell the others, the Bat's shadow passes by the door. The Bat sets up a system of wires that attach to a light switch. Outside, Brooks sees the figure in the hat crossing the roof, and realizes that it is the supposedly dead Courtleigh Fleming. Miss Dale finds the hidden room, located behind a fireplace. The Bat confronts her, demanding the combination to the safe in the hidden room, but she escapes. Dr. Wells is accused of helping the Bat, and the Bat is soon captured and held at gunpoint. However, the Bat activates the wire system, turning off the lights and allowing himself to escape. The Bat flees outside but his leg is caught in the bear trap placed earlier by Lizzie. The others find him and remove his mask, revealing him to be Moletti. The beaten, unknown man announces that he is the true Detective Moletti, and that the man underneath the Bat's mask was merely an impersonator of Moletti.\n\n\nDirector Roland West was reportedly a huge fan of Rinehart's stage play \"The Bat\". So much so, that when initial negotiations to purchase the rights to the play fell through, he became inspired to instead direct an adaptation of another horror-themed stage play, called \"The Monster\". On September 11, 1925, \"The Film Daily\" reported that Roland West had purchased the rights to the play for $75,000 with the intent to produce a film version.\n\nOn November 4, 1925, \"The Film Daily\" reported that Julien Josephson had completed the screenplay adaptation of \"The Bat\". \"The Trade Review\" reported that Josephson allegedly had \"written the screen story of \"The Bat\" without changing the general plot, but has added mystery complications calculated to baffle even the hundreds of thousands who have seen the stage play,” with West going so far as to claim that \"The picture will be a complete surprise even to those who have seen the stage play.\" \n\nThe prop department was directed by Ned Herbert Mann, who constructed the miniatures for the film: the buildings and \"the Bat\" in flight. The interior of the mansion was constructed at the United Artists' Hollywood sound stage under the direction of William Cameron Menzies. Scenic artist Harvey Meyers was enlisted to paint shadows on the sets to enhance the somber atmosphere of the more suspenseful, dark scenes that are later into the film. Cinematographer Arthur Edeson, assisted by then-newcomer Gregg Toland, was enlisted to shoot the film.\n\nAround the time of filming, much of the film's production was shrouded in mystery, in accordance with the secrecy behind the identity of \"the Bat\" character, with many of those involved in the filming being obliged to take an oath to not reveal any details of the story publicly and with West disallowing visitors onto the set. West also made his cast work at night, stating that \"Given the quiet of the studio at midnight, when no other companies are working, and plenty of spooky music from an orchestra, the players really are in a mood to simulate dark deeds.\"\n\n\"Motion Picture World\" George T. Pardy called \"The Bat\" \"a box-office knockout\" and became one of West's best-received films. \"The New York Times\" dubbed the film as \"both entertaining and exciting\" and \"Photoplay\" dubbed the film as \"It's thrilling. It's chilling. It's a scream of laughter and spookiness.\"\n\nThe film was considered to be one of the \"most coveted\" lost films for decades, until a print was discovered in the 1980s and restored by film director and archivist Robert Gitt for UCLA.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258831", "title": "Pinnacle, North Carolina", "text": "Pinnacle, North Carolina\n\nPinnacle is an unincorporated community and census-designated place in southwestern Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately SSE of the town of Pilot Mountain, between Pilot Mountain State Park and Hanging Rock State Park. As of March 2015, the exact population is 855.\n\nThe town was originally known as Culler, named for Emanuel W. Culler who owned the land on which a railroad station was built and served as the towns first mayor. The present name was adopted in 1894. Pinnacle was incorporated in 1901 but the charter was repealed in 1903.\nSome east of Pinnacle on State Route 1186 is the \"Rock House\", the remains of a massive four-story stone structure with three-foot-thick walls built in 1770 by Capt. John 'Jack' Martin, one of the first two settlers of Stokes County, on a grant from the Crown. Martin served in the North Carolina House of Representatives and as presiding judge of Stoke County court for over 30 years. The house was built by slaves using local flint stones, with a fireplace large enough to roast an ox and stuccoed white plaster on the exterior, and was used as a blockhouse by early settlers. Colonel Martin, who was born in Essex County, Virginia and became a fierce fighter for the Continental cause during the Revolutionary War. Targeted by Tories during and following the War, when he was badly wounded while spying for American forces on the eve of the Battle of Kings Mountain, Martin was the brother of militia General Joseph Martin, namesake of Martinsville, Virginia. Col. Jack Martin saw action at the battles of Chestnut Ridge, Surrey County, Colsons, Old Fields, Alamance and Guilford Courthouse. The Rock House served as the mustering ground for colonial forces during the Revolutionary War as well as the War of 1812. One of the oldest structures in Stokes County and listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975, the house burned in 1890, and only the great rock walls remain. Rock House was acquired in 1975 by the Stokes County Historical Society, which has struggled recently to protect the ruins from vandals.\nIn addition to the Rock House, the Hauser Farm was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258838", "title": "Oak Ridge, Stokes County, North Carolina", "text": "Oak Ridge, Stokes County, North Carolina\n\nSandy Ridge is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately four miles NNE of county seat Danbury, on North Carolina State Highway 704.\n"}
{"id": "2258843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258843", "title": "Abiola", "text": "Abiola\n\nAbiola is a Nigerian name of Yoruba origin. The meaning of Abiola is \"born in honor, wealth\".\n\nNotable people with the surname include:\n\nNotable people with the first/given name include:\n"}
{"id": "2258848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258848", "title": "Neatman, North Carolina", "text": "Neatman, North Carolina\n\nNeatman is an unincorporated community in Stokes County, North Carolina, United States, approximately 3 miles north-northwest of Germanton.\n"}
{"id": "2258850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258850", "title": "Raghuram Bhat", "text": "Raghuram Bhat\n\nAdwai Raghuram Bhat () (born 16 April 1958, Puttur, Mysore State) is a former Indian cricketer who played in 2 Tests in 1983.\n\nRaghuram Bhat dominated school and junior level games. After some fine performances, he made his Ranji trophy debut in the 1979-80 season against Tamil Nadu at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium. He had a slow start to his career taking just one wicket on his debut game. \nHe soon found success at the Ranji level. In just his 6th first class game he picked up 9 wickets against Kerala at Davangere. In the quarterfinal against Punjab he took 9 wickets to help Karnataka reach the semifinals.\n\nRaghuram Bhat is chiefly remembered for the role he played in Karnataka's victory in the semifinal against Bombay. The 1981-82 Ranji semifinal was played between a strong Bombay team and Karnataka at the M. Chinnaswamy Stadium. Bombay had at their disposal some of the then current stars of the Indian cricket team, including Sunil Gavaskar, Dilip Vengsarkar, Ashok Mankad, Sandeep Patil, Ravi Shastri and Balwinder Sandhu.\n\nSunil Gavaskar captaining Bombay won the toss and decided to bat. Gavaskar opened the batting with Ghulam Parkar and put on a 62 run opening stand. Raghuram Bhat soon got into the act and dismissed Gavaskar for 41. He then had Vengsarkar bowled for 8. A 101 run partnership was established between Ghulam Parkar and Sandeep Patil. Raghuram Bhat got Ghulam Parkar Leg before wicket. That bought Ashok Mankad to the crease. Raghuram Bhat had Mankad edge the ball to Gundappa Viswanath at slip to leave Bombay at 184 for 5. Raghuram Bhat completed his hat-trick by dismissing Suru Nayak. Raguram Bhat went on to claim 3 more wickets as he ended up with his then best figures of 8 for 123. Bombay were dismissed for 271.\n\nKarnataka batted well in their first innings. A fine century from M.Sudhakar Rao and a knock of 78 from Brijesh Patel ensured Karnataka overhauled Bombay's first innings total. Some fine late order batting from Syed Kirmani and Raghuram Bhat ensured Karnataka reached 470.\n\nThe pitch by then had deteriorated and was expected to help spin. Ghulam Parkar and Vengsarkar opened the batting for Bombay in the 2nd innings and put on 72. Bhat dismissed Vengsarkar and soon had Suru Nayak giving him a return catch to leave Bombay at 107 for 2. \nBhat and fellow spinner B.Vijaykrishna went through the middle order to leave Bombay at 160 for 6. Sunil Gavaskar unusually walked to bat at number 8 and soon faced trouble from the spin of Raghuram Bhat. Gavaskar had earlier decided to bat left handed against Bhat, but was talked out of it by Bombay team manager Sharad Diwadkar. Sensing that he had no chance against Bhat, Sunil Gavaskar decided to bat as a left-hander against him. Sunil Gavaskar survived against Bhat batting as a left-hander and against Vijaykrishna batting as a right-hander. Gavaskar batted over 60 minutes as a left-hander and ensured Bombay did not lose outright. Bombay ended up at 200 for 9. Karnataka went through to the final based on the big first innings lead. Raghuram Bhat ended up with 13 wickets.\n\nKarnataka lost the final to Delhi despite scoring 705 in the first innings. The next Ranji season proved to be fruitful for Bhat as helped Karnataka win the Ranji trophy for the 3rd time, beating Bombay on first innings lead. He took 4 wickets in the final and capped off a wonderful Ranji trophy campaign.\nHe played the Irani Trophy that year and picked up 7 wickets in the game. His performances in the season bought him into national limelight and he was selected for the upcoming series against Pakistan.\n\nRaghuram Bhat played his first test against Pakistan at Vidarbha Cricket Association Ground, Nagpur. His first test wicket was Javed Miandad. He later picked up Mudassar Nazar's wicket as well. India drew the game and the series was shared between the 2 arch rivals.\nRaghuram Bhat's next test was against the West Indies at the Green Park Stadium in Kanpur. Bhat picked up the wickets of Clive Lloyd and Gus Logie. India lost the test by an innings and 83 runs. This test also marked the end of Bhat's international career as he was dropped from the Indian team.\n\nRaghuram Bhat was one of the stalwarts for Karnataka. He along with B.Vijaykrishna bore bulk of the bowling workload for Karnataka. He ended up with 343 wickets in the Ranji Trophy. He retired after the 1992-93 pre-quarter final against Madhya Pradesh\n\nSince he retired from first-class cricket, just as a young Sunil Joshi was making his mark for Karnataka, Bhatt has served in many capacities - as umpire, administrator and coach. In July 2011, he was appointed as the coach of the Goan cricket team.\n\nA reference is made to the incident where Sunil Gavaskar batted left handed against Raghuram Bhat in the Kannada movie Ganeshana Maduve.\n"}
{"id": "2258854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258854", "title": "Reformatio in peius", "text": "Reformatio in peius\n\nIn law, a (Latin: \"change for the worse\") occurs when, as the result of an appeal, the appellant is put in a worse position than if they had not appealed. For example, an appellant in a criminal case might receive a more severe sentence on appeal than in their original trial. \n\nWhether or not \"reformationes in peius\" are allowed depends on the jurisdiction and the applicable procedural law. In civil law jurisdictions, \"reformationes in peius\" are generally not allowed in appeals in administrative law cases, as well as in criminal and civil appeals as long as only one party appeals the decision. However, exceptions exist.\n\nUnder the case law of the Boards of Appeal of the European Patent Office (EPO), a Board cannot put a sole appellant in a worse position than if he had not appealed the first instance decision. Hence in relation to appeals, the term \"prohibition of \"reformatio in peius\"\" essentially means that a person should not be placed in a worse position as a result of filing an appeal. Thus, in general, EPO Boards of Appeal are prevented in opposition appeal proceedings from going beyond the request of a sole appellant to put it in a worse position than it was before it appealed. The central case detailing this principle is G 4/93 consolidated with G 9/92. \n\nThis principle however does not hold without exceptions, as laid out for example in decision G 1/99. In this case, an error of judgement had been made by an Opposition Division in allowing the addition of a limiting feature going beyond the content of the application as filed (contrary to ). The Board allowed the patent proprietor to file requests in order to overcome this deficiency, since\nStill under the case law of the boards of appeal of the EPO, the doctrine of \"reformatio in peius\" does not however apply separately to each point or issue decided, or to the reasoning leading to the impugned decision.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258857", "title": "Avenger-class escort carrier", "text": "Avenger-class escort carrier\n\nThe \"Avenger\"-class escort carrier was a class of escort carriers comprising three ships in service with the Royal Navy during the Second World War and one ship of the class in the United States Navy called the Charger Type of 1942-class escort carrier. All three were originally American type C3 merchant ships in the process of being built at the Sun Shipbuilding and Drydock Company Chester, Pennsylvania. The ships laid down in 1939 and 1940 were launched and delivered to the Royal Navy by 1942 under the Lend-Lease agreement.\n\nThe ships had a complement of 555 men and an overall length of , a beam of and a height of . Their displacement was at normal load and at deep load. Propulsion was provided by four diesel engines connected to one shaft giving , which could propel the ships at .\n\nAircraft facilities were a small combined bridge–flight control on the starboard side and above the long wooden flight deck, one aircraft lift , one aircraft catapult and nine arrestor wires. Aircraft could be housed in the half hangar below the flight deck. Armament comprised three single mounted 4-inch dual purpose anti-aircraft guns and fifteen 20 mm cannons on single or twin mounts. They had the capacity for fifteen aircraft which would typically be a mixture of Grumman Martlet or Hawker Sea Hurricane fighter aircraft and Fairey Swordfish or Grumman Avenger anti-submarine aircraft. The three ships in the class were , and . A fourth ship, was built at the same time to the same design but was commissioned in the U.S. Navy.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258865", "title": "Isotopologue", "text": "Isotopologue\n\nIsotopologues are molecules that differ only in their isotopic composition. They have the same chemical formula and bonding arrangement of atoms, but at least one atom has a different number of neutrons than the parent.\n\nAn example is water, where its hydrogen-related isotopologues are: \"light water\" (HOH or HO), \"semi-heavy water\" with the deuterium isotope in equal proportion to protium (HDO or HHO), \"heavy water\" with two deuterium isotopes of hydrogen per molecule (DO or HO), and \"super-heavy water\" or tritiated water (TO or HO, as well as HTO [HHO] and DTO [HHO], where some or all of the hydrogen atoms are replaced with tritium isotopes). Oxygen-related isotopologues of water include the commonly available form of heavy-oxygen water (HO) and the more difficult to separate version with the O isotope. Both elements may be replaced by isotopes, for example in the doubly labeled water isotopologue DO.\n\nThe atom(s) of the different isotope may be anywhere in a molecule, so the difference is in the net chemical formula. If a compound has several atoms of the same element, any one of them could be the altered one, and it would still be the same isotopologue. When considering the different locations of the same isotopically modified element, the term \"isotopomer\", first proposed by Seeman and Paine in 1992, is used.\nIsotopomerism is analogous to constitutional isomerism of different elements in a structure. Depending on the formula and the symmetry of the structure, there might be several isotopomers of one isotopologue. For example, ethanol has the molecular formula CHO. Mono-deuterated ethanol, CHDO, is an isotopologue of it. The structural formulas CH−CH−O−D and CHD−CH−O−H are two isotopomers of that isotopologue.\n\nSingly substituted isotopologues may be used for nuclear magnetic resonance experiments, where deuterated solvents such as deuterated chloroform (CDCl) do not interfere with the solutes' H signals, and in investigations of the kinetic isotope effect.\n\nIn the field of stable isotope geochemistry, isotopologues of simple molecules containing rare heavy isotopes of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, nitrogen, and sulfur are used to trace equilibrium and kinetic processes in natural environments and in Earth's past.\n\nMeasurement of the abundance of clumped isotopes (doubly substituted isotopologues) of gases has been used in the field of stable isotope geochemistry to trace equilibrium and kinetic processes in the environment inaccessible by analysis of singly substituted isotopologues alone.\n\nCurrently measured doubly substituted isotopologues include:\n\nBecause of the relative rarity of the heavy isotopes of C, H, and O, IRMS of doubly substituted species requires larger volumes of sample gas and longer analysis times than traditional stable isotope measurements, thereby requiring extremely stable instrumentation. In addition, the doubly-substituted isotopologues are often subject to isobaric interferences, as in the methane system where CH and CHD ions interfere with measurement of the CHD and CHD species at mass 18. A measurement of such species requires either very high mass resolving power to separate one isobar from another, or modeling of the contributions of the interfering species to the abundance of the species of interest. These analytical challenges are significant: The first publication precisely measuring doubly substituted isotopologues did not appear until 2004, though singly substituted isotopologues had been measured for decades previously.\n\nAs an alternative to more conventional gas source IRMS instruments, tunable diode laser absorption spectroscopy has also emerged as a method to measure doubly substituted species free from isobaric interferences, and has been applied to the methane isotopologue CHD.\n\nWhen a light isotope is replaced with a heavy isotope (e.g., C for C), the bond between the two atoms will vibrate more slowly, thereby lowering the zero-point energy of the bond and acting to stabilize the molecule. An isotopologue with a doubly substituted bond is therefore slightly more thermodynamically stable, which will tend to produce a higher abundance of the doubly substituted (or “clumped”) species than predicted by the statistical abundance of each heavy isotope (known as a stochastic distribution of isotopes). This effect increases in magnitude with decreasing temperature, so the abundance of the clumped species is related to the temperature at which the gas was formed or equilibrated. By measuring the abundance of the clumped species in standard gases formed in equilibrium at known temperatures, the thermometer can be calibrated and applied to samples with unknown abundances.\n\nThe abundances of multiply substituted isotopologues can also be affected by kinetic processes. As for singly substituted isotopologues, departures from thermodynamic equilibrium in a doubly-substituted species can implicate the presence of a particular reaction taking place. Photochemistry occurring in the atmosphere has been shown to alter the abundance of O from equilibrium, as has photosynthesis. Measurements of CHD and CHD can identify microbial processing of methane and have been used to demonstrate the significance of quantum tunneling in the formation of methane, as well as mixing and equilibration of multiple methane reservoirs. Variations in the relative abundances of the two NO isotopologues NNO and NNO can distinguish whether NO has been produced by bacterial denitrification or by bacterial nitrification.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258874", "title": "She's a Woman", "text": "She's a Woman\n\n\"She's a Woman\" is a song by the English rock band the Beatles, written mainly by Paul McCartney and credited to Lennon–McCartney. John Lennon contributed to the lyrics and middle eight (the bridge). The song was finished in the studio the morning of the session. It was released as the B-side to \"I Feel Fine\" in 1964, their last single release that year. It reached number 4 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 from frequent airplay. In New Zealand, the song reached number one for one week.\n\nThe song's chorus was briefly heard in the movie \"Help!\" (1965).\n\n\"She's a Woman\" has been described as an example of the rock and roll, rhythm and blues and pop rock genres. The song, penned mainly by Paul McCartney (Lennon helped with the lyric and bridge) was his attempt at imitating the vocal style of Little Richard. This is why the song is in such a high register, even for McCartney's tenor range. Some takes of the song (especially recordings of live concerts) feature an extended outro. \"She's a Woman\" is the first Beatles song that is longer than three minutes.\n\nThe structure of the song is fairly simple, with the melody carried mostly by McCartney's voice. His bass and a backing piano produce a countermelody, with Lennon's guitar playing chords on the backbeat. After the first verse, the piano also plays chords on the upbeats. George Harrison plays a bright guitar solo during the middle eight. \n\nAuthor Ian MacDonald noted in his book \"Revolution in the Head\" that the final mix of \"She's a Woman\" at the time of its original release was unusual of the time, with the bass kick on Starr's drum kit being barely audible due to it being compressed in the mixing process. MacDonald suggested that McCartney's bass part might be responsible for the rearrangement of the mixing as its more prominent volume was in sacrifice of the drums' usual mixing due to limiting problems.\n\nIn the United States, the song was released on the Capitol album \"Beatles '65\" with considerable reverb added by executive Dave Dexter, Jr. Both mono and stereo versions were released, the stereo version presented in a duophonic (mock stereo) mix. These were released on CD in 2004 as part of \"The Capitol Albums, Volume 1\" boxed set compilation.\n\nA genuine stereo version of the song was released in 1987 on the \"Past Masters, Volume 1\" CD; the true mono version was not made available in CD format until 2009 as part of \"The Beatles in Mono\" boxed set compilation.\n\nThere is also another stereo version that sounds the same but with McCartney's count-in which appears on the CD EP box set. This stereo version with the count-in also appeared on a bonus stereo vinyl EP included with an earlier vinyl EP box set. The song is heard being played on a tape recorder underground during the Salisbury Plain scene in the movie \"Help!\". In the UK, the first album release was on the 1978 compilation LP \"Rarities\" in mono in the box set \"The Beatles Collection\" and later released separately.\n\nThe band started including the song in their live shows in 1965. It is characterised by the classic percussive \"honk\" of Lennon's Rickenbacker 325. One of the versions of the song can also be found on the Beatles' live albums, \"Live at the Hollywood Bowl\" and \"Live at the BBC\", while a version from the first of two shows at Nippon Budokan in Tokyo in 1966 appears on \"Anthology 2\".\n\nOn the US charts, the song was the final of 11 top ten hits in the calendar year 1964, giving the Beatles an all-time record for most top ten hits in a calendar year on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 charts by one artist/group (surpassed by rapper Drake in 2018). It was also the twelfth top 10 hit written by Lennon–McCartney, an all-time record for most top 10 hits in a calendar year on the Billboard Hot 100 by a songwriter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258875", "title": "Sioux Falls Stadium", "text": "Sioux Falls Stadium\n\nSioux Falls Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium, in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. It originally opened in 1941 and was renovated in 2000. It holds 4,500 people.\n\nIt is primarily used for baseball, and is the home field of the unaffiliated Sioux Falls Canaries baseball team of the American Association. It was their home stadium when they won the American Association championship in 2008. Promoting the home team, the stadium is often affectionately proclaimed \"The Birdcage\".\n"}
{"id": "2258881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258881", "title": "Sioux City Explorers", "text": "Sioux City Explorers\n\nThe Sioux City Explorers are a professional baseball team based in Sioux City, Iowa, in the United States. The Explorers are a member of the South Division of the American Association of Independent Professional Baseball, which is not affiliated with Major League Baseball. From their inception in 1993 to the present, the Explorers have played their home games at Lewis and Clark Park. \n\nThe Explorers, frequently called the X's, have played in the American Association since 2006. Previously, they were members of the Northern League.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258885", "title": "Shankar Nag", "text": "Shankar Nag\n\nShankar Nagarakatte (), better known as Shankar Nag (9 November 1954 – 30 September 1990) was an Indian actor, screenwriter, director, and producer known for his work in Kannada cinema and television. He directed and acted in the teleserial, \"Malgudi Days\", based on celebrated novelist R. K. Narayan's short stories.\n\nShankar Nag received the inaugural IFFI Best Actor Award (Male): Silver Peacock Award\" at the 7th International Film Festival of India for his work in the film \"Ondanondu Kaladalli\". He co-wrote \"22 June 1897\", an Indian national award-winning Marathi film. He is the younger brother of actor Anant Nag.\n\nShankar Nagarkatte was born on 9 November 1954 in Mallapur,(Uttara Kannada District, honnavar Taluk) His parents were Anandi and Sadanand Nagarkatte. Born into a Konkani-speaking family, his family settled in Shirali, a village near Bhatkal in Uttara Kannada of Karnataka State. He had an elder sister, Shyamala, and an elder brother, actor Anant Nag. After completing formal education, Shankar moved to Mumbai. In Mumbai, he was attracted to Marathi theatre and immersed himself in theatrical activities. Incidentally, he met his future wife, Arundhathi during a drama rehearsal.\n\nNag then shifted base to Karnataka. His elder brother Anant had already established himself as an actor and urged Shankar to act in films. In 1978 Shankar made his debut in the role of a mercenary in Girish Karnad's epic film \"Ondanondu Kaladalli,\" where he played a mercenary who earns a position in a rival army to get even with his brother, whom he considers his enemy. \n\nShankar was lapped up by commercial cinema. \"Seetharamu, Auto Raja and Preethi Madu Thamashe Nodu\" were amongst his early commercial successes. He made for an unconventional hero with an unshaven face, distinct swagger, dark eyes and had a rough voice.The masses accepted him as an action hero. Although he had never undergone any martial arts training, he earned the sobriquet of \"Karate King.\" At the same tim\"e\" he made his directorial debut with \"Minchina Ota\", the pioneering heist movie in Kannada cinema\".\" This won him seven state awards, including best film. Janma Janmada Anubandha and Geetha (both with music by Ilayaraja) followed. There was no looking back after that. Shankar became the pioneer of balancing acting with directing, massy commercial movies with classy meaningful movies. Some of his most popular movies include Nyaya Gedditu, Sangliayana and C.B.I Shankar.\n\nHis directorial ventures include \"Accident\" (which won many state and national awards), \"Ondu Muttina Kathe\" (with Rajkumar in the lead – loosely based on John Steinbeck's novel \"The Pearl\"), \"Nodi Swamy Navirodu Hige\", \"Lalach\" and \"Hosa Theerpu\" (remake of \"Dushman\" – his only directorial remake in Kannada). Accident particularly is a landmark in Indian Cinema.\nShankar did not limit his efforts to cinema. He was equally immersed in theatre and television. \"Malgudi Days\" is the best example of Shankar's oeuvre on television. Prior to globalisation, Doordarshan was the only broadcaster in India. In addition to programme production, Doordarshan used to invite private producers to produce television serials. Shankar accepted the offer and directed \"Malgudi Days\", based on the collection of short stories by R.K.Narayan in 1987, under the banner of Padam Rag Films. Well known actors Vishnuvardhan and Anant Nag appeared in the serial. Master Manjunath, who played the role of impish Swami, became a household name.\nThe music, accompanied by the nasal twang was composed by L. Vaidyanathan. The teleserial was shot in Agumbe, Shimoga district, Karnataka. Shankar went to direct another teleserial, titled \"Swami\" in the same year. \"Malgudi Days\" has been rated as one of the finest serials ever to be made in the history of Indian television.\n\nHe anchored the \"Parichaya\" program on DD1-Kannada, in its starting days.\nShankar retained an interest in theatre. His brother Anant Nag and he founded SANKET, an amateur theatre group, which still produces plays. His first ever directorial effort in Kannada was \"Anju Mallige\" by Girish Karnad. He continued with productions like \"Barrister\", \"Sandhya Chhaya\". Sometime here he was joined by T N Narasimhan who wrote and co-directed \"Nodi Swamy Navirodu Hige\" which had, apart from himself, his wife Arundhati Nag and Ramesh Bhat in the cast.\n\nNag died in a car crash at Anagodu village on the outskirts of Davanagere town on 30 September 1990 during the pre-production work for his film \"Jokumaraswamy\". His last film as an actor, \"Sundarakanda\", was released a few days after his death. For \"Sundarakanda\", Nag's voice was dubbed by Murali. \"Nigooda Rahasya\", one of his last films also had his brother, Anant Nag, complete the voice dubbing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258891", "title": "Lewis and Clark Park", "text": "Lewis and Clark Park\n\nLewis and Clark Park is a stadium in Sioux City, Iowa. It is primarily used for baseball and is the home field of the Sioux City Explorers minor league baseball team. The ballpark opened in 1993 and has a capacity of 3,631 people.\n\nThe park is named for Meriwether Lewis and William Clark, leaders of the Lewis and Clark Expedition of the American West who journeyed across the western frontier of early America from 1804 to 1806. The expedition's only casualty, Charles Floyd, was lost near present-day Sioux City.\n"}
{"id": "2258894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258894", "title": "Golden Mile, Durban", "text": "Golden Mile, Durban\n\nThe Golden Mile (or, colloquially, \"The Mile\") is the popular stretch of beachfront in the city of Durban, KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa, including the promenade that runs along with it. It runs roughly from uShaka Beach (where the uShaka Marine World is located) in Point Waterfront to Suncoast Casino and Entertainment World in the north and now includes a route directly to Moses Mabhida Stadium. It abuts the central business district of the city to its west. \n\nIt is one of the main tourist attractions in the Durban area. The wide stretch of golden sands, artificially separated by various piers, provides excellent opportunities for sun-worshippers and swimmers to enjoy the sub-tropical sunshine and warm waters of the Indian Ocean. Most of the Mile's beaches are protected year-round by lifeguards and shark nets. The Mile is also a well-known surfer's haven. The South Beach end, in particular, is well known as a safe beach for neophyte surfers. The beachfront properties are a mix of residential apartments and tourist hotels, development of which boomed in the 1970s, although remnants of Durban's art-deco architecture are still evident. Interspersed among the beachfront properties are several popular restaurants and nightclubs.\n\nThe Golden Mile has long been a popular domestic holiday destination and during the holiday seasons (June–July and December–January) \nSouth Africans from across the country, but in particular the Gauteng region, flock to enjoy its many attractions, which include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258903", "title": "Cycling club", "text": "Cycling club\n\nA cycling club is a society for cyclists. Clubs tend to be mostly local, and can be general or specialised. The Cyclists' Touring Club, (CTC) in the United Kingdom is a national cycling association; the Tricycle Association, Tandem Club and the Veterans Time Trial Association, for those over 40, are specialist clubs. Members of specialist or national groups often belong to local clubs.\n\nOther groups support leisure cyclists or campaign for improved facilities for cyclists. The London Cycling Campaign, Friends of the Earth, and Greenwich Cyclists are examples of campaign groups.\n\nCycling clubs flourished in 19th century in a time when there were not commercial cars on the market and the principal way of transportation was Horse-drawn vehicles, such horse and buggy or horsecar. Among the earliest clubs can be named The Bicycle Touring Club that operated since 1878.\n\nA cycling club's activities vary from one aspect of cycle sport to a range of cycling and social activities. Racing clubs organise competitions for members and others, including track cycling, cyclo-cross, road bicycle racing and time trials). Most competitive cyclists belong to a club affiliated to one of the national racing associations, such as British Cycling and Cycling Time Trials in the UK, and may also organise training through BC or ABCC-qualified coaches. Riders often race in their club's colours.\n\nCycling clubs may offer touring, weekly club rides (traditionally on Sunday mornings), regular meetings and social events.\n\nSome clubs are sponsored by commercial organisations. Riders advertising in return for the support.\n\nMany clubs are named after their home town or district. A few clubs are named after the topography of their region, such as the Alpine Bicycle Club of Golden, Colorado. Some have no connection, such as the Acme Wheelers in south Wales, Zenith CC in Leicester, Gemini BC in north-west Kent. Some clubs are just named after the behaviour of the members — VC Daft.\n\nSome call themselves Road Clubs or use a foreign title such as Coureurs or Velo. Examples in Britain are Warrington Road Club, Leicestershire Road Club and Archer RC); Clayton Velo, Yorkshire Velo, Rugby Velo, Thames Velo, VC Elan, VC Londres or Velo Sport Jersey all use foreign names that reflect the origins of cycle-racing in France. Another common title is Wheelers - for example, Huddersfield Star Wheelers. Forming coinages from multiple words is also common practice such as Echelon Velodynamics Bicycle Club.\n\nSome names have roots in political or social movements. The National Clarion Cycling Club spread socialist ideas by bicycle in the late 1890s and early 1900s. The name remains - Bury Clarion, Crewe Clarion, Fenland Clarion, London Clarion, North Cheshire Clarion, Nottingham Clarion, etc - but the politics has mostly disappeared. Other names reflect historical religious allegiance, such as Manchester St Christopher's Catholic Cycling Club) or jobs: RAF CC, Northumbria Police CC, GB Fire Service Road Team, Army Cycling Union. Others evoke the wandering nature of cycling - '34 Nomads, Altrincham Ravens, Lewes Wanderers, Colchester Rovers - or an aspiration: Norwood Paragon, Sheffield Phoenix, Dulwich Paragon.\n\nThe early 21st century has also seen the development of internet-based clubs (e.g.: i-Team.cc, and Team Internet).\n\nCycling organizations or cycling associations are - similar to automobile associations - organizations for cyclists, bicycle sports and bicycle mobility, bicycle touring, advocating bycicle-friendliness and the bicycle and cycling in general. As such, they generally support sustainable transport. Larger national organizations, may have arisen from older, local cycling clubs.\n\nMost associations have the commonality that they aim to promote cycling as an everyday activity, e.g. commuting. When the focus is on a specific aspect of cycling, we can distinguish between:\n\nMost organizations lean towards either cycling as a mobility or bicycle / BMX racing. The political goals can be quite different, because cycling as a mobility is an everyday issue and pervades questions about environmentalism, transport and sustainability. Sports associations emphasize the event character of cycling and do not usually try to advocate the aspects of bicycle as regular traffic vehicles.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258905", "title": "Admiralty House, London", "text": "Admiralty House, London\n\nAdmiralty House in London is a Grade I listed\nbuilding facing Whitehall, currently used for UK government functions and as ministerial flats. It was opened in 1788 and until 1964 was the official residence of the First Lord of the Admiralty.\n\nAdmiralty House is a four-story building of yellow brick. The front facade has a symmetrical facade of three broad bays and one additional small bay at the southern end. The rear facade is of five bays and faces Horse Guards Parade, with a basement-level exit under the corner of the Old Admiralty Building.\n\nThe front of the house faces Whitehall; its main entrance is in the corner of the Ripley Courtyard, cutting through the corner of the older Ripley Building, to which it is connected on the first and second floors.\n\nAdmiralty House was designed by Samuel Pepys Cockerell, a protégé of Sir Robert Taylor, and opened in 1788. Built at the request of Admiral of the Fleet Viscount Howe, First Lord of the Admiralty, in 1782–83 for \"a few small rooms of my own\", it was the official residence of First Lord of the Admiralty until 1964, and has also been home to several British Prime Ministers when 10 Downing Street was being renovated. U.S. President John F. Kennedy attended a meeting there with Prime Minister Harold Macmillan in 1962 to discuss the allies' reaction to the communist threat and more wide-ranging matters.\n\nWinston Churchill lived in the house while serving as First Lord of the Admiralty for two terms, 1911–15 and 1939–40. It now contains government function rooms and three ministerial flats.\n\nAdmiralty House is part of a complex of former Admiralty buildings and is sometimes confused with the more visible Ripley Building (also known as the Old Admiralty Office), built in 1726, or the Admiralty Extension, built between 1898 and 1904, and also with Admiralty Arch (1910).\n\nIn recent times, Lord Malloch-Brown used one of the flats in Admiralty House while he was Minister of State for Africa, Asia and the United Nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258906", "title": "Maxi single", "text": "Maxi single\n\nA maxi single or maxi-single (sometimes abbreviated to MCD or CDM) is a music single release with more than the usual two tracks of an A-side song and a B-side song.\n\nThe term came into wide use in the 1970s, where it usually referred to 7-inch vinyl singles featuring one track on the A-side and two on the B-side. The 1975 reissue of David Bowie's \"Space Oddity\", where the featured song is coupled with \"Changes\" and \"Velvet Goldmine\", is a typical example. By the mid-1970s, it was used to refer to 12\" vinyl singles with three or four tracks (or an extended or remixed version of the lead single/song) on the A-side, with an additional two or three tracks on the B-side; the B-side was initially used by DJs. Later, in the 1980s, a typical practice was to release a two-song single on 7\" vinyl and cassette, and a maxi-single on 12\" vinyl.\n\nThese first 12\" maxi-singles were promotional and mostly sent to discotheques and radio stations. Examples of such promos—released at almost same time in 1975—are Gary Toms Empire \"Drive My Car\", Don Downing \"Dream World\", Barrabas \"Mellow Blow\", The Trammps \"Hooked for Life\", Ace Spectrum \"Keep Holdin' On\", South Shore Commission \"Train Called Freedom\", The Chequers \"Undecided Love\", Ernie Bush \"Breakaway\", Ralph Carter \"When You're Young and in Love\", Michael Zager & The Moon Band Feat. Peabo Bryson \"Do It with Feeling\", Monday After \"Merry-Go-Round\", The Ritchie Family \"I Want to Dance\" and Frankie Valli \"Swearin' to God\".\n\nSalsoul Records made 12\" maxi-singles commercially available for the first time in May 1976 with the release of \"Ten Percent\" by Double Exposure (SALSOUL 12D-2008). An earlier 12\" catalog number from this label is \"More\" by Carol Williams (SALSOUL 12D-2006), but it was released later.\n\nOccasionally, a cassette single was released in two cassette formats simultaneously: a traditional Cassette single with two tracks and a cassette maxi-single with four or more tracks, generally remixes. This practice was experimented with in the 1980s.\n\nExample: Debbie Gibson – \"Out Of The Blue\" (cassette maxi-single) released by Atlantic in 1987 in the USA. Includes four mixes: 1. Club Mix, 2. Bonus Beats, 3. Drumapella, 4. Dub version. This was packaged in a 12\" × 3\" cassette maxi single longbox (with a regular cardboard slipcase/cassette inside), although most later maxi singles were just issued in regular style cassette cases.\n\nWhen CDs began to appear as a popular single format in the late 1980s (see CD single), songs were occasionally released in two CD formats simultaneously, 3\" and 5\", predominantly as a marketing ploy but potentially as a logical extension of the 7\" and 12\" vinyl record formats to CD, with the 5\" CD sometimes marketed as a \"maxi-single\", most commonly in the US, and European countries (outside of the UK). While the 5\" CD version occasionally had additional or longer track mixes, the track listing was often identical.\n\nShortly after the onset of the 1990s, CD had clearly become the music format of choice. As the 1990s progressed, nearly every single release was available on CD, and vinyl and cassette single releases gradually became less common.\n\nThe UK became a thriving market for CD singles, but in 1998 the UK Chart Supervisory Committee reduced the maximal playing time of chart-eligible CD singles from 40 minutes to 20 minutes, though 12\" vinyl singles could still play for up to 40 minutes. While Maxi-CDs had been much loved among the dance community, as most if not all of the remixes that had been commissioned by the label could be released commercially, lobbying by artists in other genres who felt obliged to record extra and cover tracks to provide enough material for their single releases was responsible for the rule change. As a result, the U.K.'s singles from around mid-1998 often appeared as three separately-sold CDs with three tracks each, or more commonly, two CDs and an extra format (such as 7\", 12\" or DVD single). Very often, at least one track was common to all formats. Single releases in the US and elsewhere still included many tracks (primarily remixes) and called themselves maxi-singles to differentiate from the three-track UK versions.\n\nExample: Saint Etienne \"Who Do You Think You Are?\" (US CD single)\nReleased by Warner Music in 1993 in the USA. Includes eight different tracks, six of which are versions of the title song. Digipak packaging. Labeled \"compact disc maxi-single\" on the front cover.\n\nAnother extensive example is the collection of singles released for the award-winning \"Mellon Collie and the Infinite Sadness\" by The Smashing Pumpkins. Each of the five singles (\"Bullet with Butterfly Wings\", \"1979\", \"Zero\", \"Tonight, Tonight\", \"Thirty-Three\") had two or more additional songs; most of them had six or seven. All of the maxi singles were released together, with additional tracks on some, as \"The Aeroplane Flies High\" box set, for a total of thirty-three tracks across the five singles. Adding that to the total number of other unique tracks on the main CD and vinyl releases of the album itself brings the grand total track count of \"Mellon Collie\" to fifty-eight.\n\nAs a result of the 1998 UK Chart Supervisory Committee ruling on chart eligible singles containing no more than 20 minutes of material, many of the U.K.'s dance music singles contained edited / faded mixes. This increased demand for imported European & American CD maxi singles in the UK, especially amongst DJs who required full-length tracks.\n\nA digital maxi single is a series of digital downloads mostly containing remixes. Unlike a normal maxi single, tracks can be bought and sold based on preference. Even if a single had a maxi single and a digital maxi single released with exactly the same content, they were still counted differently on charts. For instance, the maxi single was counted as two points, while the digital maxi single (if all songs were downloaded and if the single were to contain the standard five tracks) was counted as ten points.\n\nMaxi singles are the common format of singles by the Japanese idol girl group AKB48, the best-selling music artist by number of singles sold in Japan and the artist with the best-selling single of the year in the country for the past six years, in what is the world's largest physical music market.\n\nWith music stores in the US devoting significantly less shelf space to singles, the format's future in the US remains in doubt. In the UK, having watched sales of CDs drop since the previous rule change, and amid allegations that the consumer no longer felt that UK-issued singles were good value for money, the Chart Supervisory Committee once again changed the rules governing the formats of singles released in the UK. From early 2003, a format described as a \"Maxi-CD\" was reintroduced, alongside a new two-track CD single with a lower retail price. The current rules in the U.K. allow for up to 40 minutes of audio tracks on a Maxi-CD, as long as all tracks are remixes of the title track. In practice, however, many of the U.K.'s Maxi-CDs still contain only three mixes and come nowhere near the maximal allowable playing time. However, releases on dance labels (such as EMI's Positiva) are nearly always Maxi-CDs in the true sense, with more than three mixes. Madonna and Lady Gaga are the rare examples of popular American artists who still released maxi-singles on physical formats into the 2010s.\n\nExample: Erasure – \"Breathe\" (US CD single)\nReleased by Mute in 2005 in the USA. Includes eight different tracks, six of which are versions of the title song, plus a CD-ROM section with the video of the title song. Standard jewel case packaging.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258907", "title": "Third Army (Turkey)", "text": "Third Army (Turkey)\n\nThe Turkish Third Army is a field army of the Turkish Army and is the country's largest army.\n\nIt traces its origins to 1923, but further back, the Ninth Army Troops Inspectorate was redesignated the Third Army Troops Inspectorate on 15 June 1919. General Ragıp Gümüşpala commanded the army between 1958 and 1960. In the days of the Soviet Union the Third Army was stationed on the Caucasus border to counter any Soviet attack by the Transcaucasus Military District. In 1973 the Army, with headquarters at Erzincan, had the 8th Corps at Elâzığ (including the 12th Infantry Division (Turkey), today 12th Mechanised Infantry Brigade at Ağrı), the 9th Corps at Erzurum (including 9th Infantry Division at Sarıkamış (which was active to at least 1996), and the 11th Corps at Trabzon. \n\nAfter 1974–75 and the Turkish invasion of Cyprus 11th Corps headquarters was moved to North Cyprus.\n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Warsaw Pact and the Soviet Union, the General Staff decided to send 120,000 men of the Third Army to the border with Iraq. This was done in order to increase readiness against any possible crisis in the area (such as during the Persian Gulf War and Iraq War). Most of the armored, mechanized, and commando brigades are located in the central region in order to act rapidly into any scenario around Turkey's borders. Today, the army garrisons the Turkish borders with Armenia and Georgia. \n\nSome 300 men from the Third Army were sent to serve alongside the United Nations troops in Somalia (UNITAF/UNOSOM II). In addition, Lieutenant General Cevik Bir, who had previously commanded the army's 4th Armoured Brigade, became Force Commander of UNOSOM II (1992-95).\n\n9th Infantry Division was seemingly disbanded in 2005. A Russian source in 2007 gave the following details on the army:\"the 3rd Field Army, consist[s] of 8th and 9th Army Corps, 48th Separate Infantry Brigade, 4th Separate Armoured Brigade.\"\n\n9th Army Corps, which has in its composition: the 3rd infantry division, 7th, 14th, 25th separate mechanized brigade, separate mechanized infantry battalion, a separate tank battalion, deployed in the area Argadan, Kagysman, Erzurum, along the Turkish-Georgian and Armenian–Turkish border. 8th Army Corps has in its composition: 10th separate infantry brigade, 1st, 12th (Ağrı), 34th, 42nd Mechanized Brigades, 9th Separate Armored Brigade and 151st Artillery Regiment IRGC (Iranian Revolutionary Guard), located along the Turkish–Iranian border.\"\n\nIn June 1941, the Third Army was organized as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258908", "title": "Disinformation (company)", "text": "Disinformation (company)\n\nThe Disinformation Company (abbreviated as Disinfo) was a privately held, limited American publishing company until 2012 when it was sold to Red Wheel/Weiser/Conari. It also owned \"Disnformation Books\", which focused on current affairs titles and books exposing alleged conspiracy theories, occultism, politics, news oddities, and purported disinformation. It is headquartered in New York City, New York. Arguably, its most visible publications to date are \"50 Things You're Not Supposed to Know\" and the \"Everything You Know About [subject] Is Wrong\" series, both by the company's editor-at-large Russ Kick.\n\nIn 1996, Tele-Communications Inc. (now Comcast) funded a Hollywood-based Internet initiative responsible for online projects like the Getty Museum and an Internet-based political humor soap opera entitled \"Candidate 96\". The initiative launched its own interactive website, featuring the tag line; \"everything you know is wrong\". Soon after the site's launch, TCI cancelled funding and support for the site.\n\nThe founding team kept it going, being nominated for an award for politics in the first Webby Awards ceremony. The Disinformation Company, as it was now known, was then acquired by Razorfish. Eventually, the Disinformation Company became privately held.\n\nIn addition to publishing books, the company also had a home video division as well as multimedia and Internet projects.\n\nIn 2000, Disinfo organized DisinfoCon, a 12-hour event featuring Richard Metzger, rock musician Marilyn Manson, underground filmmaker Kenneth Anger, painter Joe Coleman, Douglas Rushkoff, Mark Pesce, Grant Morrison, Robert Anton Wilson, Todd Brendan Fahey and others.\n\nIn 2002, the company produced a four-episode documentary series called \"Disinformation\" (also alternatively titled as \"Disinfo Nation\").\n\nIn 2008, the Disinformation Company itself was accused of spreading propaganda (such as 9/11 \"Truth\" material) by Louis Proyect.\n\nAs of August 31, 2018, the Disinfo.com website was inactive. While the Disinformation Company Ltd. was still listed as the owner, all content was deleted and the domain was for sale.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258914", "title": "Gao (mansa)", "text": "Gao (mansa)\n\nGao was Mansa of the Mali Empire from 1300 to 1305.\n\nMansa Gao was one of two sons of Kolonkan. Kolonkan was a sister of the legendary founder Sundiata Keita. The mansa assumed the throne following the murder of the usurper Sakura on his return from the hajj. He ruled until 1305, when he was succeeded by his son Mohammed ibn Gao.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258917", "title": "T-Bones Stadium", "text": "T-Bones Stadium\n\nJustBats Field at T-Bones Stadium, formerly CommunityAmerica Ballpark, is a baseball park in Kansas City, Kansas, located in the Kansas City neighborhood of Piper. It is the home of the Kansas City T-Bones of the independent American Association, and the former home of the Kansas City Wizards (now Sporting Kansas City) of Major League Soccer. It is located in the Village West area at 1800 Village West Parkway. Many local area High School teams, including Bonner Springs High School, in their annual Butch Foster Memorial Baseball Classic play at the ballpark and it is also the home of the Kansas City Kansas Community College Blue Devils. It has also been used for concerts and some community events.\n\nThe ballpark was originally named after CommunityAmerica Credit Union, a Kansas City area financial institution, which held naming rights to the park from 2002 to 2017. The reported dimensions of CommunityAmerica are down the left field line (with an wall, affectionately known as \"the Little Green Monster\"), to left center, to dead center, to right center, and down the right field line. Walls are about five feet high, with the exception of the Little Green Monster and the bullpen area in left center.\nThe walls are about high at the bullpens, which are in center field and add a few extra angles and contours to the outfield. The playing and seating areas are completely surrounded by a wide concourse.\nWith the addition of bleacher seats in 2008, the park has 6,537 fixed seats, though its capacity (including the concourse, picnic area, right field grass berm, and center field party area) is usually considered over 7,500.\n\nGround was broken on September 4, 2002, and was completed in just over nine months by Titan Construction, opening June 6, 2003. Baseball had a record paid attendance of 10,345 on June 23, 2007. Major League Soccer attendance, with the new seating configuration, regularly exceeds 8,000, and its record paid attendance was 10,385 on March 29, 2008. The 2006 Northern League All-Star game was held at CommunityAmerica Ballpark on July 18, with related festivities the day before.\nSporting Kansas City played its home games at the stadium while the team's new stadium was being constructed. Because of the soccer presence, the Baseball configuration had taken an unusual step. In most natural grass fields the base lines where baserunners run between bases is dirt. However, CommunityAmerica Ballpark had dirt sliding pits just around the three bases, homeplate, and the pitchers mound. This was so that grounds crews would not need to install excessive amounts of grass for each Wizards home game. On March 29, 2008, the Wizards played their first game at the ballpark and defeated D.C. United 2-0 in front of a sell-out crowd.\n\nBefore the start of the 2008 season, the left field berm area was replaced with permanent bleacher seats. Additional metal bleachers were added on the concourse running from behind the former left field berm to the bullpens in center field. This added 2,172 to the ballpark's fixed seating capacity, raising it from its originally 4,365 fixed seats.\n\nOn June 3, 2007 the ballpark was the site of a world record-setting performance of the Deep Purple hit \"Smoke on the Water\" by 1683 guitarists, in a publicity stunt for KYYS radio (now KZPT).\n\nOn November 20, 2017, the T-Bones announced that the naming rights agreement between the team and CommunityAmerica would not be renewed, with the facility being named T-Bones Stadium on an interim basis. In July 2019, the T-Bones reached a naming-rights deal with Kansas City-based Pro Athlete, Inc. to use their JustBats brand in renaming the playing surface JustBats Field at T-Bones Stadium.\n\nThe Unified Government of Wyandotte County/Kansas City, Kansas evicted the T-Bones from the stadium on October 14, 2019 for failure to keep up rent and utility payments. Days later, the Unified Government approved a stadium lease with an organization trying to purchase the T-Bones. The purchase was completed. The new five-year lease has three five-year options.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258925", "title": "Aube (musician)", "text": "Aube (musician)\n\nAkifumi Nakajima was born in January 1959 in Japan. He was interested in sound work since the 80s, but had not released anything until he was asked to create music for an art installation in the early 90s. After that, he created an enormous amount of work - most of which was based on one sound source. Anything was used - from glass to oscillators and even pages from the Bible. His early work was noisier, while his later work leaned toward ambient.\n\nAs stated previously, each recording in Aube's catalogue is synthesized from one source sound. Many of his earliest recordings use water as a source, in either a still form or a gush, as from a faucet or a stream. Among the most well-known are \"Hydrophobia\" (1991, Vanilla, Japan), \"Luminous\" (1993, G.R.O.S.S., Japan), \"Métal De Métal\" (1996, Manifold, USA), \"Cardiac Strain\" (1997, Alien8 Recordings, Canada), \"Set On\" (2001, Manifold, USA) and many more.\n\nOn 9 December 2013, it was discovered by Eric Lanzillotta, a friend of his, that Akifumi had died on 25 September 2013. In memory of him, Eric shared a live recording of a collaboration between him and Akifumi on Soundcloud, which was recorded in 2004.\n\nSeveral compilation CDs are of note in Aube's History. Most notable, perhaps, is the \"Come Again\" compilation, released in 1991 on Vanilla Records, which contains one of the first tracks recorded under the Aube moniker. Later compilations of note include \"Come Again II\" (1993, Vanilla/Furnace, Japan/USA), \"The Japanese/American Noise Treaty\" (1995, Relapse, USA), and \"Ant-Hology\" (1998, Ant-Zen, Germany).\n\nAkifumi Nakajima also formed many collaboration projects with other Japanoise artists. They are as follows; \"Club Skull\" with Hiroshi Hasegawa of C.C.C.C. & Fumio Kosakai of Incapacitants. \"SIAN\" with Shohei Iwasaki of Monde Bruits. \"Kinkakuji\" with Maso Yamazaki of Masonna. \"Ginkakuji\" with Hiroshi Hasegawa of C.C.C.C.. \"Gokurakuji\"' with Maso Yamazaki of Masonna & Hiroshi Hasegawa of C.C.C.C.. \"Loop Circuit\" with Dub Murashita of Dubwise. \"Hyper Ventilation\" with Dub Murashita of Dubwise. \"Meiji Jingu\" with Kohei Gomi of Pain Jerk. \"Ise Jingu\" with Masahiko Ohno of Solmania. \"Heian Jingu\" with Toshiji Mikawa of Incapacitants, and \"Atsuta Jingu\" with Kohei Gomi of Pain Jerk, Masahiko Ohno of Solmania & Toshiji Mikawa of Incapacitants. In 2005 he cooperated with the Italian experimental artist Maurizio Bianchi for two projects titled \"Junkyo\" (Noctovision) and \"Mectpyo Saisei\" (Para Disc).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258931", "title": "Foothills Stadium", "text": "Foothills Stadium\n\nFoothills Stadium, formerly Burns Stadium, is a stadium in Calgary, Alberta. It is primarily used for baseball, and was formerly home to the Calgary Cannons AAA baseball club until September 2002, when the team relocated to Albuquerque, New Mexico, USA. It was later the home field of the Calgary Vipers baseball team of the North American League. It originally opened in 1966. The most notable early team to play in the stadium was the Calgary Expos of the Pioneer League. The stadium has undergone several renovations, notably in 1985 prior to the arrival of the Calgary Cannons. Most recently the stadium was refurbished in 2004 including the installation of ViperVision Video Screen in right field. It holds 6,000 people.\n\nThe status of the stadium was a consistent story throughout the Cannons history. The ballpark's owner, the City of Calgary, risked scuttling the move of the Gulls to Calgary by choosing to reassess the feasibility of AAA baseball in Calgary in 1984. Council ultimately voted to support Parker, agreeing to a seven-year lease and $1.5 million to renovate Foothills, one of the PCL's conditions on approving the relocation. In the Cannons early years, Foothills was regarded as a park with good atmosphere. Mel Kowalchuck of the Edmonton Trappers described the park in 1988: \"They provide a good atmosphere at the park. Seating's good, and so is the field. The lighting, concessions, parking ... everything's good.\"\n\nRenovations to Foothills again became a major issue in 1993, when the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues demanded that the Cannons upgrade Foothills to AAA standards. The Cannons and the city fought a protracted battle to see who would pay the majority of the $2 million renovation costs. The debate also included the Alberta government. Parker argued that if council did not choose to pay the majority of the renovation costs that he would sell or relocate the team. Groups representing Portland, Oregon, Fresno and Sacramento, California all expressed interest in the team. Unable to reach an agreement with the city, the Cannons then turned to the federal government in March 1994, making a pitch for a federal infrastructure grant to help pay for renovations. Renovations to Foothills Stadium finally began following the 1994 season.\n\nAs other teams built new ballparks throughout the 1990s, Foothills' lack of luxury boxes, small clubhouses and open concourse became a growing concern for Parker. By 1998, he was arguing the need for a new stadium, or a major renovation of Foothills at a cost of $20 million. Despite numerous efforts to convince city council to help renovate Foothills, Parker was unable to secure support for the project. When the Cannons were sold and relocated in 2002, Foothills Stadium was regarded as one of the major reasons why the team moved south to Albuquerque.\n\nWith the Calgary Vipers folding, the stadium is currently being used by the University of Calgary Dinos baseball team, as well the Calgary Junior Dinos, Calgary PBF Redbirds and Babe Ruth Calgary.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "2258932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258932", "title": "Mohammed ibn Gao", "text": "Mohammed ibn Gao\n\nMansa Mohammed ibn Gao was mansa of the Mali Empire from 1305 to 1310.\n\nMansa Mohammed ibn Gao, as his name suggests, was the son of his predecessor, Mansa Gao. He inherited the throne following his father's death in 1305 and ruled until being succeeded by his uncle, Abubakari II in 1310.\n\n"}
{"id": "2258933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258933", "title": "Milestones (book)", "text": "Milestones (book)\n\nMa'alim fi al-Tariq, also Ma'alim fi'l-tareeq, () or Milestones, first published in 1964, is a short book by Egyptian Islamist author Sayyid Qutb in which he lays out a plan and makes a call to action to re-create the Muslim world on strictly Quranic grounds, casting off what Qutb calls \"Jahiliyyah\".\n\n\"Ma'alim fi al-Tariq\" has been called \"one of the most influential works in Arabic of the last half century\". It is probably Qutb's most famous and influential work and one of the most influential Islamist tracts written. It has also become a manifesto for the ideology of \"Qutbism\". Commentators have both praised \"Milestones\" as a ground-breaking, inspirational work by a hero and a martyr, and reviled it as a prime example of unreasoning entitlement, self-pity, paranoia, and hatred that has been a major influence on Islamist terrorism.\n\nEnglish translations of the book are usually entitled simply \"Milestones\" (the book is also sometimes referred to in English as \"Signposts\"). The title \"Ma'alim fi al-Tariq\" translates into English as \"Milestones Along the Way\", \"Signposts on the Road\", or different combinations thereof.\n\"Ma'alim fi al-Tariq\" marked the culmination of Qutb's evolution from modernist author and critic, to Islamist activist and writer, and finally to Islamist revolutionary and theoretician. It was written in prison, where Qutb spent 10 years under charges of political conspiracy against Egypt's Nasser regime, and first published in 1964. Four of its thirteen chapters were originally written for Qutb's voluminous Quranic commentary, \"Fi Zilal al-Qur'an\" (In the shades of the Qur'an).\n\nLess than a year after its publication, Qutb was again arrested and brought to trial in Egypt under charges of conspiring against the state. Excerpts from the book were used to incriminate Qutb and he was found guilty, sentenced to death and executed by hanging in 1966. His death elevated his status to \"Shaheed\" or martyr in the eyes of many Muslims. \"Milestones\" became a bestseller and widely distributed across the Arab speaking world. To date, close to 2,000 editions of the work are said to have been published.\n\nIn his book, Qutb seeks to set out \"milestones\" or guiding markers along a road that will lead to the revival of Islam from its current \"extinction.\"\n\nAccording to Qutb, the Muslim community has been \"extinct for a few centuries\" and reverted to Jahiliyyah (\"\"The state of ignorance of the guidance from God\"\") because those who call themselves Muslims have failed to follow \"the laws of God\" or Sharia (also shariah, Shari'a, or Shari'ah), traditional Islamic law. Following the sharia is not just important but a defining attribute of Muslims, more necessary than belief itself, because \"according to the Shari'ah, 'to obey' is 'to worship'.\" This means Muslims must not only refrain from worshiping anything other than God, they must not \"obey\" anything other than God: \"anyone who serves someone other than God\"—be that someone (or something) a priest, president, a parliament, or a legal statute of a secular state— is \"outside God's religion\", although he may \"claim to profess this religion\".\n\nQutb sees sharia as much more than a code of religious or public laws. It is a \"complete\" way of life based on \"submission to God alone,\" crowding out anything non-Islamic. Its rules range from \"belief\" to \"administration and justice\" to \"principles of art and science.\" Being God's law, sharia is \"as accurate and true as any of the laws known as the 'laws of nature,'\" such as gravity or electricity, and part of the universal law \"which governs the entire universe\".\n\nThe modern Muslim world has erred by approaching the Qur'an for the sake of \"discussion, learning and information\" or \"to solve some scientific or legal problem.\" In fact it should be approached as a source of \"instruction for obedience and action\" to remove man from the servitude of other men and to the servitude of God.\n\nWhen of God's law is established on earth, it will lead to blessings falling on all mankind. Sharia is \"the only guarantee\" against \"any kind of discord\" in life. and will \"automatically\" bring \"peace and cooperation\" among individuals. Knowledge of the \"secrets of nature, its hidden forces and the treasures concealed in the expanses of the universe,\" will be revealed \"in an easy manner.\" The \"harmony between human life and the universe\" of sharia law will approach the perfection of heaven itself.\n\nJust as sharia is—in Qutb's view—all encompassing and all wonderful, whatever is non-Muslim (or Jahiliyyah) is \"evil and corrupt,\" and its existence anywhere intolerable to true Muslims. In preaching and promoting Islam, for example, it is very important not to demean Islam by \"searching for resemblances\" between Islam and the \"filth\" and \"the rubbish heap of the West.\"\n\nAccording to Qutb, to ignore this fact and attempt to introduce elements of socialism or nationalism into Islam or the Muslim community (as Egypt's Arab Socialist Union government was doing at the time), is against Islam. Qutb stresses that in the early days of Islam, Muhammad did not make appeals to ethnic or class loyalty. Though these crowd-pleasing appeals would have undoubtedly shortened the thirteen years of hardship Muhammad had to endure while calling unresponsive Arabs to Islam, \"God did not lead His Prophet on this course. ... This was not the way,\" and so must not be the way now.\n\nTo restore Islam on earth and free Muslims from \"jahili society, jahili concepts, jahili traditions and jahili leadership,\" Qutb preaches that a vanguard (\"tali'a\") be formed modeling itself after the original Muslims, the companions (\"Sahaba\") of Muhammad. Qutb believes these Muslims successfully vanquished Jahiliyyah principally in two ways:\n\n\nFollowing these principles the vanguard will fight Jahiliyyah with a twofold approach: preaching, and \"the movement\" (jama'at). Preaching will persuade people to become true Muslims, while the movement will abolish \"the organizations and authorities of the Jahili system\" by \"physical power and Jihaad\". Foremost amongst these organizations and people to be removed is the \"political power\" which rests on a complex, \"interrelated ideological, racial, class, social and economic support,\" but ultimately includes \"the whole human environment.\" Force is necessary, Qutb explains, because it is naive to expect \"those who have usurped the authority of God\" to give up their power without a fight.\n\nRemaining aloof from Jahiliyyah and its values and culture, but preaching and forcibly abolishing authority within it, the vanguard will travel the road, gradually growing from a cell of \"three individuals\" to ten, from ten to a hundred, until there are thousands, and blossom into a truly Islamic community. The community may start in the homeland of Islam but this is by no means \"the ultimate objective of the Islamic movement of Jihad.\" Jihad must not merely be defensive, it must be offensive, and its objective must be to carry Islam \"throughout the earth to the whole of mankind.\"\n\nTrue Muslims should maintain a \"sense of supremacy\" and \"superiority,\" on the road of renewal, but it is important that they also prepare themselves for a \"life until death in poverty, difficulty, frustration, torment and sacrifice\", and even to brace themselves for possibility of death by torture at the hands of Jahiliyyah's sadistic, arrogant, mischievous, criminal and degraded people. Qutb ends his book by an example of persecution against Muslims from the Quran's \"\"surat Al-Burooj\"\", enjoining modern-day Muslims to endure the same or worse tortures for the sake of carrying out God's will. After all, \"this world is not a place of reward\"; the believer's reward is in heaven.\n\nTwo of Qutb's major influences were the medieval Islamic scholar Ibn Taymiya, and contemporary British Indian (later Pakistani) Islamist writer Sayyid Abul Ala Maududi. Both used the historical term \"jahiliyya\" to describe contemporary events in the Muslim world.\n\nTwo other concepts popularized by Qutb in \"Milestones\" also came from Maududi: \n\nQutb's precept—that sharia law is essential to Islam. and that any self-described \"Muslim\" ruler who ignores it in favor of man-made laws is actually a non-Muslim who should be fought and overthrown—came from a fatwa of Ibn Taymiya. According to Quran, whoever judge by any law other than the law of Allah is non-muslim.\n\nQutb's intense dislike of the West notwithstanding, some of his ideas have been compared to European fascism:\n\nalthough it differs from that ideology in being based on religion and not on race or ethnicity. \nFascism having made some impact among anti-British Arab Muslims before, during, and after World War II. The influence of particular fascist thinkers (particularly French fascist Alexis Carrel) in Qutb's work is disputed. \n\nThe centrality of an Islamic 'vanguard' (Arabic: \"tali'a\") in Qutb's political program also suggests influence from Leninist thinking.\n\nQutb's book was originally a bestseller and became more popular as the Islamic revival strengthened. Islamists have hailed him as \"a matchless writer, ... one of the greatest thinkers of contemporary Islamic thought,\" and compared to Western political philosopher John Locke. Egyptian intellectual Tariq al-Bishri has compared the influence of \"Milestones\" to Vladimir Lenin's pamphlet \"What Is To Be Done?\", where the founder of modern Communism outlined his theories of how Communism would be different from socialism.\n\nCritics allege that Qutb's \"Milestones\" helped to open up a Pandora's box of takfir (by declaring that the Muslim world was actually non-Muslim and so many Muslims not actually Muslims, and potentially guilty of apostasy) that has brought serious internal strife, in particular terrorism, to the Muslim world in recent decades. \n\nQutb repeatedly proclaims that \"serving human lords\" is intolerable and is a practice Islam \"has come to annihilate.\" Christians and Jews are guilty of it since, according to Qutb, they give priests and rabbis \"the authority to make laws\" and \"it is clear that obedience to laws and judgments is a sort of worship.\" Because of this, Qutb says, these religions are actually polytheist, not monotheist.Qutb says this from chapter number 9 and verse number 31 from the Quran.\n\nQutb asserted that \"World Jewry\" was and is engaged in conspiracies whose \"purpose\" is:\nHe also alleged that the West had a centuries-long \"enmity toward Islam\" which led it to create a \"well-thought-out scheme ... to demolish the structure of Muslim society.\" At the same time, \"the Western world realizes that Western civilization is unable to present any healthy values for the guidance of mankind,\" and \"the American people blush\" with shame when confronted with the \"immoralities\" and \"vulgarity\" of their own country in comparison with the superiority of Islam's \"logic, beauty, humanity and happiness\".\n\nOlivier Roy has described Qutb's attitude as one of \"radical contempt and hatred\" for the West, and complains that the propensity of Muslims like Qutb to blame problems on outside conspiracies \"is currently paralyzing Muslim political thought. For to say that every failure is the devil's work is the same as asking God, or the devil himself (which is to say these days the Americans), to solve one's problems.\"\n\nOther questions involve Qutb's ideas of sharia and freedom.\n\nQutb's ideology is premised upon sharia law and its application to every aspect of life. He does not explain or illustrate how any specific statutes are better or different from man-made law — evidence to support assertions in \"Ma'alim fi al-Tariq\" is limited to scriptural quotations — but does assure readers sharia is \"without doubt ... perfect in the highest degree\", and will free humanity from servitude to other men.\n\nSome, such as scholar Khaled Abou El Fadl, have questioned Qutb's understanding of sharia, and his assumptions that sharia is not only perfect but accessible to mortals in its completeness.\n\nQutb's assertion that the Qur'an should be approached as a source of \"instruction for obedience and action\" (following the fundamentalist prescription that \"the Quran is our law,\"\n\nQutb explains that sharia law needs no human authorities for citizens to obey and thus frees humanity from \"servitude\" because \n\nThis uniquely free socioeconomic system not only frees Muslims to be true Muslims, but explains why offensive jihad to \"establish the sovereignty of God\", i.e. true Islam, \"throughout the world\" would not constitute aggression towards non-Muslims but rather \"a movement to wipe out tyranny\" and to introduce \"true freedom\" to mankind, since even the most contented and patriotic non-Muslim living in a non-Muslim state is still obeying a human authority. These non-Muslims must be freed by Islamic jihad, just as the non-Muslims of Persia or Byzantium were freed by invading Muslim armies in the 7th Century AD.\n\nQutb's political philosophy has been described as an attempt to instantiate a complex and multilayer eschatological vision, partly grounded in the counter-hegemonic re-articulation of the traditional ideal of academic jargon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258953", "title": "Mercy Ships", "text": "Mercy Ships\n\nMercy Ships is an international charity. Mercy Ships currently operates the largest non-governmental hospital ship in the world, providing humanitarian aid like free health care, community development projects, community health education, mental health programs, agriculture projects, and palliative care for terminally ill patients.\n\nMercy Ships has operated in more than 57 developing nations and 18 developed nations around the world, with a current focus on the countries of Africa.\n\nThe organization has its International Support Center (ISC) in Garden Valley, Texas. Mercy Ships also has 16 national resource offices in countries that include Spain, Britain, Canada, Germany, Switzerland, the Netherlands, South Africa, Australia, France, Korea, Denmark, Belgium, New Zealand, Sweden and Norway.\n\nA major inspiration for Mercy Ships president and founder Don Stephens was the work of the international hospital ship . Stephens' research showed that 95 of the 100 largest cities in the world were port cities. Therefore, a hospital ship could deliver healthcare very efficiently to large numbers of people. The birth of Stephens' disabled son, John Paul, also inspired him to move forward with his vision of a floating hospital. A visit with Mother Teresa in Calcutta, India, further deepened his commitment to serving the world's neediest people.\n\nMercy Ships was founded in 1978 by Don and Deyon Stephens. It has outfitted and operated a total of four hospital ships to serve developing nations since 1978. Originally, it was a part of the YWAM (Youth with a Mission) family of Christian ministries, before becoming a standalone organization in 2003. The organization uses retired ocean liners and ferries that have been transformed into floating hospitals.\n\nThe first ocean liner acquired was the \"Victoria\", which was purchased for its scrap value of US$1 million. The nine-deck vessel was transformed into the hospital ship over a four-year period. The 522-foot ship was equipped with three operating rooms, a dental clinic, an x-ray machine, a laboratory and 40 patient beds. The ship's 350-member crew included Mercy Ships founders Don and Deyon Stephens, who lived on board the ship with their four young children for ten years.\nIn 1983, the \"Anastasis\" (the Greek word for \"resurrection\") began operations in the South Pacific, then moved to Central America and the Caribbean Sea in the mid-80s. The ship moved on to Africa in 1991 and remained in service there until 2007. The final port of call for the \"Anastasis\" was Monrovia, Liberia.\n\nMercy Ships purchased the Norwegian coastal ferry \"Polarlys\" in 1994 and transformed it into the MV \"Caribbean Mercy,\" a hospital ship serving Central American and Caribbean ports. The ship offered berths for 150 crew and was equipped initially for field medical clinics. Over the course of several years, the ship was equipped with modern eye-surgery capabilities. The first eye surgery was performed on board the \"Caribbean Mercy\" in early 1997, while the ship was docked in Guatemala. On land, volunteers from the \"Caribbean Mercy\" also provided dental, orthopedic and healthcare services. The \"Caribbean Mercy\" visited 138 ports of call and remained in service until May 2005.\nIn 1983, the Canadian ferry \"Petite Forte\" was donated to Mercy Ships to provide relief operations in the Caribbean. Initially christened the \"Good Samaritan,\" the ship was re-christened the MV \"Island Mercy\" in 1994. The 60-berth vessel remained in service until spring of 2001. The countries it served included Brazil, the Dominican Republic, Guyana and Haiti. The ship also reached beyond the Caribbean with relief and medical operations in Guinea-Bissau, Western Samoa, the Tokelau Islands and New Zealand.\n\nSince 2000 Mercy Ships has the 16,500-ton flagship \"Africa Mercy\", which measures almost 500 feet long. The \"Africa Mercy\" has greater capacity than all three previous Mercy Ships combined. A second, purpose-built hospital ship, the \"Global Mercy\", is currently under construction. In May 2007, the \"Africa Mercy\" sailed into the port in Monrovia to meet up with the \"Anastasis,\" enabling crew, equipment and supplies to be transferred from the oldest Mercy Ship to the newest one.\nThe \"Africa Mercy\", the only current Mercy Ship, in 2007 made its official maiden voyage to Monrovia, Liberia, from the shipyard in England. In 2008, the \"Africa Mercy\" continued its service to Liberia—offering free surgeries, assistance in healthcare infrastructure development, and community-based preventive health care programs that benefited thousands of individuals and many communities. More than 1,200 surgical procedures and 10,000 dental procedures were completed, along with community health projects such as HIV/AIDS prevention and construction of wells and latrines.\n\nEarly in 2010, the ship was docked in Lomé, Togo for the 2010 field service. In August 2010, the \"Africa Mercy\" went into shipyard in South Africa, where it was equipped with new, more efficient generators. In 2009, the ship was docked in Cotonou, Benin from February to December, providing free surgeries and medical care. Mercy Ships also worked with Beninese citizens on agriculture and water development projects on the ground in Benin. Before the \"Africa Mercy\" arrives in port, flyers are distributed to alert the public to the ship's upcoming visit. An advance team begins a massive screening of thousands of prospective patients, to see which men, women and children qualify for a surgery. It is common for people to walk for days (and even from neighboring countries) to find out whether they may be eligible for surgical treatment.\n\nAs of January 2020, the \"Africa Mercy\" was docked in Dakar, Senegal. It was field-serviced in Conakry, Guinea, from August 2018 until June 2019. The summer was spent in the Canary Islands for its annual maintenance period. Prior to that, the volunteer crew completed a field service in Douala, Cameroon which lasted from August 2017 through June 2018. Prior to that, the \"Africa Mercy\" served in the port of Cotonou, Benin August 2016 to the summer of 2017. The summer of 2016 was spent completing dry dock and annual maintenance in Durban, South Africa. The ship was previously docked in Toamasina, Madagascar from October 2014 through June 2016, for two field services. Before that, the ship served in Pointe Noire, Republic of Congo from August 2013 till May 2014. Before The Republic of Congo the vessel was docked in Conakry, Guinea and Lomé, Togo. The \"Africa Mercy\" docked in Freetown, Sierra Leone for its 2011 field service, which lasted for ten months. At the conclusion of each field service, the \"Africa Mercy\" goes into dry dock, where it is resupplied and receives any needed repairs or upgrades before heading to its next port of call.\n\nMercy Ships is a predominantly Christian interdenominational missionary organization, describing their mission as \"bringing hope and healing to the forgotten poor, following the 2000-year-old model of Jesus\". The organization treats all patients free of charge, and without regard to their religion, race or gender.\n\nMercy Ships vessels have visited 594 ports, covering 56 developing nations. Its volunteers have provided services and materials in developing countries valued at over $1.53 billion. Mercy Ships has delivered services to more than 2.71 million direct beneficiaries and Mercy Ships volunteers have performed more than 95,000 free operations, such as cleft lip and palate, cataract removal, straightening of crossed eyes, and orthopedic and facial reconstruction. They have:\n\nMercy Ships is a Better Business Bureau accredited charity. Mercy Ships has built a broad base of financial support, beginning with donations from the public and from crew members. Medical companies donate pharmaceuticals, equipment and supplies to Mercy Ships. Corporations also make in-kind donations of materials such as fuel, food and building supplies. In addition, governments that work with Mercy Ships typically waive or cover port fees and associated costs for the ship to dock.\n\nIn 1991, the government of Togo became the first African nation to invite the Mercy Ship \"Anastasis\" to dock and provide free surgical care. The 2012 Field Service in Lomé, Togo, marked the fifth visit of Mercy Ships to the West African country. During the five-month stay in port, the ship's volunteer medical crew provided free surgeries, free dental procedures and trained local healthcare representatives. Mercy Ships also renovated portions of the Be-Kpota Anfamé Clinic in Lomé to serve as its 40-bed HOPE (Hospital Out-Patient Extension) Center for post-surgical recovery, which was returned to use as a Ministry of Health Clinic when the \"Africa Mercy\" departed.\n\nMercy Ships vessels have visited Sierra Leone five times, beginning in 1992. Mercy Ships has tailored its work in Sierra Leone to support the country's National Health Sector Strategic Plan, which aims to strengthen the national health system.\n\nIn December 2011, Mercy Ships signed on as a full partner to a Health Agreement with Sierra Leone, focusing on improving the country's principal hospitals. The agreement calls for Mercy Ships to focus on upgrading medical and surgical services, patient recordkeeping and the physical conditions of hospital buildings and infrastructure.\n\nThe organization's partner in Sierra Leone is the Aberdeen Women's Centre, formerly the Aberdeen West Africa Fistula Center. The Aberdeen Women's Centre is one of the few locations on the African continent offering obstetric fistula repair for women who have been injured during childbirth. Started by Mercy Ships with the Ministry of Health, Addax Foundation and other partners, the Fistula Centre is now operated by the Gloag Foundation (UK).\n\nThe Mercy Ships 2012 field service in Conakry marked the third visit by a Mercy Ship to Guinea, which was also visited by the earlier Mercy Ship \"Anastasis\" (now retired). Mercy Ships partnered with the country's Ministry of Health and Public Hygiene and other organizations to improve the country' health care delivery system. A special outreach was made to ensure that many patients from remote areas of the country were able to be screened for treatable conditions.\nIn August 2018 Mercy Ships arrived in Conakry for the fourth time and stayed there for a ten-month mission.\n\nThe Mercy Ships 2013 field service in Pointe Noire marked the first visit by a Mercy Ship to the Republic of Congo. Mercy Ships partnered with the country's Ministry of Health, and programs addressed requests by the authorities in Congo-Brazzaville to support continuing education opportunities for practicing professionals. Those included mentoring and training in nursing, anesthesiology, infection control, cataract removal surgery, basic surgical skills, trauma care, newborn resuscitation, palliative care, midwifery, and community health education. Mercy Ships partnered with local hospital infrastructures to help improve quality of care, teamwork and communication.\n\nThe 2015–2016 field service was the third Mercy Ships visit to Madagascar, located off the southeastern coast of Africa. Madagascar is the world's fourth-largest island nation. A political crisis in recent years has hampered the nation's ability to meet a number of millennium development goals and has taken a heavy toll on Madagascar's economy and people. According to the office of the President of Madagascar, there was a clear and important need for the expertise Mercy Ships brought to the nation, both in terms of specialized surgical and medical care as well as healthcare training and capacity building.\n\nThe 2016–2017 field service of the \"Africa Mercy\" took place in Cotonou, Benin where the hospital ship docked from August 2016 through to June 2017. During the \"Africa Mercy’s\" 10-month stay in the port of Cotonou, Mercy Ships provided over 1,793 free life-changing surgeries for adult and child patients on board. The volunteer crew treated 6,942 people at a land-based dental clinic, mentored 88 Beninese healthcare professionals and trained 1,874 participants in medical capacity building courses such as Essential Surgical Skills, Primary Trauma, Safe Anesthesia and more.\n\nThe 2017–2018 field service of the \"Africa Mercy\" was completed in June 2018. During this port stay, Mercy Ships provided more than 2,508 life-changing surgeries for adult and child patients on board, treated more than 9,000 at a land-based dental clinic, and provided capacity building medical training courses to 1,475 Cameroonian healthcare professionals. These courses included SAFE Obstetric Anesthesia, SAFE Pediatric Anesthesia, Essential Surgical Skills, Primary Trauma Care and others. Additionally, 89 Cameroonian medical professionals were mentored including surgeons, nurses, anesthesia providers and healthcare workers.\n\nThe 2018–2019 field service of the \"Africa Mercy\" took place in Conakry, Guinea from August 2018 through June 2019. During the Africa Mercy's 10-month stay in Guinea, Mercy Ships provided 2.230 patients with 2,442 specialized surgeries. The off-ship dental clinic treated 7,937 patients who received over 41,000 dental procedures. The medical capacity building program trained 1099 participants in courses including primary trauma care, essential surgical skills and more, while 155 anesthesia providers, nurses, surgeons and other healthcare professionals participated in a mentoring program.\n\nMedical personnel on the \"Africa Mercy\" provide surgeries and healthcare to treat a wide range of problems, including cleft lip and palate, cataract, crossed eyes (strabismus), bowed legs (genu varum), burns and burn scars, dental problems and obstetric fistula repair for injuries sustained during childbirth. Many of these ailments are extremely severe because patients have had little prior access to medical care. In addition, people with disfiguring medical conditions have often been shunned by their communities, so medical treatment from Mercy Ships can also help relieve the stigma and isolation that they have experienced.\n\nThe lower deck of the \"Africa Mercy\" is equipped with five operating theaters, 82-bed recovery wards, a CT scanner, an X-ray machine and a laboratory. During its two field services to Toamasina, Madagascar between October 2014 to June 2016, the volunteer crew of the \"Africa Mercy\" performed 2,951 free surgeries, had 137 participants in the Medical Capacity Building Mentoring program which included surgeons, doctor and nurse anesthetists, lab and sterile technicians, Ward, OR and ER nurses and a dentist. Mercy Ships Medical Capacity Building courses taught 1,882 health care professionals participants in internationally recognized training that included SAFE Obstetric Anesthesia, SAFE Pediatric Anesthesia, WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, Ponseti Method, Essential Surgical Skills, Essential Pain Management, Glaucoma, Mental Health, Dental, Biomedical and Primary Trauma Care. The dental clinics provided 49,577 free dental care procedures for tooth decay and infections, provided clinical dental hygiene services on 2,277 patients, provided dentures for 543 patients, for a total of 12,688 unique dental patients. In addition, Mercy Ships increased health care delivery systems by renovating in-country hospital facilities.\n\nOn the upper decks of the \"Africa Mercy,\" the ship has 126 cabins that provide accommodations for more than 400 crew, including families, couples and individuals. The ship is equipped with a day care center, an accredited academy for all grades through senior year of high school, a library, a launderette, a shop for groceries and sundries, a restaurant, a gymnasium, and a donated Starbucks cafe. A fleet of 28 vehicles travels with the ship, for use in Mercy Ships land-based operations.\n\nIn addition to providing free surgical, medical and dental care, Mercy Ships is committed to investing in local healthcare infrastructure in ways that will continue to have a positive impact long after the ship leaves port. By developing medical facilities on land and training local personnel, Mercy Ships ensures that increased medical care can be provided after the \"Africa Mercy\" departs from its host country.\n\nIn the 2014–2016 field services in Toamasina, Madagascar, Mercy Ships renovated buildings at Hospital Kelly and CHUT. Renovations were completed of an operating block (4 theatres), large ward building, biomedical/Ponseti/physical therapy building, allied health and nursing, training facility and septic/sewerage system, water distribution system, roads and sidewalks at the local CHUT hospital.\n\nAdditionally, Mercy Ships volunteers had 137 participants in the Medical Capacity Building Mentoring program which included surgeons, doctor and nurse anesthetists, lab and sterile technicians, Ward, OR and ER nurses and a dentist. Mercy Ships Medical Capacity Building courses taught 1,882 health care professionals participants in internationally recognized training that included SAFE Obstetric Anesthesia, SAFE Pediatric Anesthesia, WHO Surgical Safety Checklist, Ponseti Method, Essential Surgical Skills, Essential Pain Management, Glaucoma, Mental Health, Dental, Biomedical and Primary Trauma Care.\n\nThe agricultural training program worked at a site near the capital where Mercy Ships volunteers trained 56 agricultural trainers during two 21-week courses in organic farming and food preservation techniques to help communities to achieve sustainable food production. They trained 34 orphanage workers and community farmers during two practical courses in Toliara. 464 community leaders were taught during two leadership courses. In addition to medical and surgical care, agriculture training and infrastructure projects are an important component of the ship's mandate.\n\nIn the 2013–2014 field service in the Republic of Congo, Mercy Ships renovated building at the Loandijili General Hospital and the Caritas compound.\n\nIn the 2012–2013 field service, Mercy Ships renovated portions of the Be-Kpota Anfamé Clinic in Lomé, Togo and a wing of the Ignace Deen Hospital in Conakry, Guinea.\n\nIn Sierra Leone during its 2011 Field Service, Mercy Ships donated three modular buildings to Rokupa Government Hospital in Freetown, providing a new Tuberculosis, Leprosy and HIV Outpatient Department, a Cholera Treatment Centre, offices and storage space. Mercy Ships also donated a drill rig to Living Water Sierra Leone, a Mercy Ships partner that provides shallow well drilling, pump repair and hygiene education.\n\nDuring its 2010 Field Service in Lomé, Togo, Mercy Ships extensively renovated a clinic to create a Hospital Out-Patient (HOPE) Center for Mercy Ships patients recovering from surgery. When the Africa Mercy departed from Togo, the updated facility became a clinic for the Ministry of Health.\n\nThe volunteer crew of the \"Africa Mercy\" is made up of more than 400 volunteers from more than 45 nations.\n\n\nMercy Ships offers short-term (two weeks to two years) and long-term (minimum two years) volunteer opportunities. Mercy Ships needs volunteers for both medical and non-medical jobs. Due to the nature of the ship, positions for surgeons, dentists, and nurses are often readily available, but jobs such as deckhands, carpenters, seamen, teachers, cooks, engineers, machinists, welders, plumbers, videographers, photographers, writers, electricians and agriculturalists are also available. Volunteer crew often serve as blood donors, since there is a high demand for donated blood due to limited space to maintain a blood bank on board.\n\nVolunteers with Mercy Ships are responsible for paying all costs associated with their service, including crew fees, travel expenses, passports, immunizations, insurance and personal expenses. Because of this commitment, Mercy Ships is able to use direct contributions from its supporters to bring hope and healing to the poorest of the poor.\n"}
{"id": "2258989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258989", "title": "Same-sex marriage in Oregon", "text": "Same-sex marriage in Oregon\n\nSame-sex marriage has been legally recognized in Oregon since May 19, 2014, when a U.S. Federal District Court judge ruled in Geiger v. Kitzhaber that Oregon's 2004 state constitutional amendment banning such marriages discriminated on the basis of sexual orientation in violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Federal Constitution. A campaign that was then under way to win voter approval of a constitutional amendment legalizing same-sex marriage was suspended following the decision. In July 2015, the Governor of Oregon signed into law a bill passed by the state Legislature to codify gender-neutral marriage in various Oregon statutes. The law change went into effect on January 1, 2016.\n\nOregon began recognizing same-sex marriages from other jurisdictions in October 2013. Domestic partnerships have been allowed since 2008.\n\nIn March and April 2004, Multnomah County issued marriages licenses to more than 3,000 same-sex couples until ordered by a state judge to stop doing so. In November, Oregon voters approved an amendment to the State Constitution that made it state policy to recognize only marriages \"between one man and one woman\". The validity of the licenses issued the previous spring was disputed, and the Oregon Supreme Court ruled in April 2005 that the newly adopted constitutional amendment had invalidated them.\n\nSince February 2008, same-sex couples have had access to domestic partnerships, which guarantee almost all of the rights of marriage.\n\nOn March 3, 2004, Multnomah County began issuing licenses to same-sex couples after its attorney issued a legal opinion that such marriages are lawful. On that day, Multnomah County issued 422 marriage licenses, compared to the 68 it issues on an average day. Local businesses reported an increase in the sales of flowers and other marriage-related services directly related to the beginning of same-sex marriages. According to the 2000 US Census, 3,242 same-sex couples were living in the county. Neighboring Washington and Clackamas counties announced that they were studying Multnomah County's legal opinion, but did not plan to immediately follow suit.\n\nAt a hearing on March 9, 2004, after the county had issued approximately 1,700 marriage licenses to same-sex couples, County Circuit Judge Dale Koch refused to issue an injunction to stop the county from continuing the process. A later study by \"The Oregonian\" showed that the first week's 2,026 people from Multnomah County had received such licenses, while about 900 others came from other locations in Oregon, about 490 from the state of Washington, and 30 from other states.\n\nOn March 10, 2004, the State Legislature's Legislative Counsel, Greg Chaimov, issued an opinion that \"state law requires a county clerk to license the marriage of a same-sex couple.\" The office of Attorney General Hardy Myers issued an opinion March 12, 2004, after reviewing it with the Governor, that concluded that Oregon law prohibits county clerks from issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples; that the Oregon Supreme Court would likely find denying such licenses violates Article I, Section 20 of the Oregon Constitution; but that current state practices should not change in anticipation of such a ruling. It also said that the Attorney General's office lacked the authority to order Multnomah County to cease issuing licenses for same-sex marriages.\n\nOn March 15, 2004, Multnomah County commissioners announced that they would continue to issue licenses to same-sex couples. On March 16, 2004, following public hearings, Benton County commissioners voted 2–1 to begin issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples on March 24, 2004, but they reversed their decision on March 22 after receiving two letters from the Attorney General and a phone call threatening the arrest of the county clerk, and decided to issue no marriage license at all pending a decision by the Multnomah County Court.\n\nWith the consent of the state, three same-sex couples sued the state of Oregon in Multnomah County Court, including Mary Li and Rebecca Kennedy, the first same-sex couple to receive a marriage license from Multnomah County. At a hearing before Judge Frank Bearden on April 16, 2004, in \"Li and Kennedy v. State of Oregon\", the American Civil Liberties Union and Basic Rights Oregon represented the plaintiffs and the Oregon Department of Justice and the Defense of Marriage Coalition defended the state's position. On April 20, 2004, Bearden ordered the county to stop issuing same-sex marriage licenses, and ordered the state to recognize the 3,022 same-sex marriage licenses already issued. The Oregon state registrar had been holding the completed licenses pending a court decision as to their validity, rather than entering them into the state's records system. Bearden also found that the Oregon Constitution would likely allow some form of marriage rights to same-sex couples, and directed the Legislature to act on the issue within 90 days of the start of its next session. He ruled that if the Legislature failed to address the issue within that time, he would allow Multnomah County to resume issuing marriage licenses to same-sex couples. It was understood that both parties would appeal the decision.\n\nIn July 2004, the Court of Appeals lifted the temporary ban blocking the registration of the marriage licenses issued by Multnomah County. The state announcing that processing would take a week and began doing so within hours of the court's action.\n\nOn May 21, 2004, the Defense of Marriage Coalition received approval for the language of a proposed initiative to prohibit same-sex marriage. They began circulating petitions to obtain the 100,840 valid signatures needed by July 2 to place the initiative on the November ballot. On November 2, 2004, voters approved by a margin of 57% to 43% Ballot Measure 36, a constitutional amendment defining the marriage of a man and a woman as the only one recognized by the state. The Defense of Marriage Coalition said that opponents of Measure 36 outspent their group more than 2 to 1.\n\nThe (now defunct) amendment reads: \"It is the policy of Oregon, and its political subdivisions, that only a marriage between one man and one woman shall be valid or legally recognized as a marriage.\"\n\nOn December 15, 2004, the Oregon Supreme Court heard arguments in the appeal of \"Li and Kennedy v. State of Oregon\". Oregon argued that Multnomah County lacked the authority to issue same-sex marriage licenses and that Ballot Measure 36 was retroactive, making the issue of those licenses moot. The Defense of Marriage Coalition argued that Measure 36 was not retroactive, there had been no constitutional violation of the rights of same-sex couples, and Multnomah County did not have the authority to issue same-sex marriage licenses even to remedy a constitutional violation. The ACLU argued that Measure 36 was not retroactive, that the rights of same-sex couples under the Equal Privileges and Immunities clause of the Oregon Constitution had been violated, and that counties are required to remedy perceived constitutional violations.\n\nOn April 14, 2005, the Oregon State Supreme Court decided \"Li and Kennedy v. State of Oregon\", ruling that Multnomah County lacked the authority to remedy a perceived violation of the Oregon Constitution and that all marriage licenses issued to same-sex couples were void when issued. The court noted that the Oregon Constitution had since been amended to limit marriage to opposite-sex couples and it therefore declined to rule as to whether or not same-sex couples had any rights under the Equal Privileges and Immunities clause of the Oregon Constitution.\n\nOn October 16, 2013, based on an opinion from the Oregon Department of Justice, the state's Chief Operating Officer Michael Jordan announced that Oregon would begin recognizing same-sex marriages from other jurisdictions \"for the purposes of administering state programs.\"\n\nIn February 2013, Basic Rights Oregon, a LGBT rights organization, formed the group Oregon United for Marriage to put an initiative on the ballot in November 2014 to provide for the legal recognition of same-sex marriages. The initiative would replace the state's constitutional amendment restricting marriage to opposite-sex couples with the right of all persons to marry without respect to gender. On July 26, 2013, the petition campaign to get the required signatures was launched. By early December 2013, the 116,284 minimum required signatures had been reached, but signature collection continued. The campaign was endorsed by the Democratic Party of Oregon and various major businesses.\n\nThe campaign gathered more than 160,000 signatures, enough to place its proposal, the Oregon Same-Sex Marriage Amendment, on the November 4, 2014, statewide ballot. Following the May 2014 U.S district court decision in \"Geiger v. Kitzhaber\" (see below), striking down Oregon's ban on same-sex marriage, the group announced that it was \"confident that the freedom to marry is secure in Oregon\" and that it would not proceed with the measure.\n\nOn October 15, 2013, two couples, a pair of unmarried lesbians and two men already married in Canada, filed a lawsuit, \"Geiger v. Kitzhaber,\" in U.S. district court in Eugene, Oregon, challenging the Oregon Constitution's ban on same-sex marriage. It made Oregon the 20th state to have a federal lawsuit challenging its ban on same-sex marriage since the U.S. Supreme Court's decision in \"United States v. Windsor\" (2013) invalidated part of the \"Defense of Marriage Act\". Two more couples and the Basic Rights Education Fund filed another same-sex marriage case on December 19, 2013, with this latter case captioned \"Rummell and West v. Kitzhaber.\"\n\nOn January 22, 2014, Judge Michael McShane consolidated the two lawsuits and scheduled oral arguments for April 23. On February 20, Attorney General Ellen Rosenblum told the court that she believed \"that performing same-sex marriages in Oregon would have no adverse effect on existing marriages, and that sexual orientation does not determine an individual's capacity to establish a loving and enduring relationship.\" She found it impossible to defend the state's ban \"under any standard of review\" and her office would no longer defend the ban in court. The plaintiffs in both \"Geiger\" and \"Rummell\" filed motions asking for summary judgment; this procedure used in cases where there are no material issues of fact requiring a trial, and a fast resolution is desired.\n\nThe court heard oral argument on motions for summary judgment in the consolidated lawsuit on April 23, 2014. While all parties present supported same-sex couples' right to marry, Judge McShane questioned whether Oregon voters should get another say on the issue, since they approved the amendment defining marriage; and whether to stay the ruling and await guidance from same-sex marriage cases pending in the U.S. courts of appeal, or to implement the ruling immediately. The court scheduled another oral argument session for May 14, where the National Organization for Marriage (NOM), an organization that opposes same-sex marriage, tried to qualify for intervention in the case. On May 14, Judge McShane rejected NOM's attempt to intervene in the case, ruling that the group was unreasonably late in filing its request to intervene and that it failed to convincingly demonstrate that it should be allowed to intervene on behalf of three anonymous Oregon-based members of NOM.\n\nAt noon on May 19, 2014, Judge McShane issued his opinion, ruling that the state's constitutional ban was unconstitutional. He wrote:\nMinutes after the decision was announced at noon, officials in at least four counties were fulfilling requests for marriage licenses from same-sex couples. The first to wed in Multnomah County were two of the plaintiffs, Deanna Geiger and Janine Nelson. That county issued 96 licenses the first day, and judges officiated at wedding ceremonies in a Portland ballroom.\n\nThe National Organization for Marriage (NOM) immediately asked the United States Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals to issue an emergency stay of McShane's ruling, which that court denied on grounds of lack of standing. NOM then filed a request on May 27 with Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy seeking to block Judge McShane's order. Justice Kennedy referred the matter to the entire Supreme Court, which on June 4 rejected NOM's request.\n\nIn July 2015, several amendments to marriage and spousal laws on Oregon's statutes were passed by the state Legislature and signed into law by the state Governor. The reforms make all mentions to Oregon's marriage and spousal gender-neutral and came into effect on January 1, 2016.\n\nIn February 2016, the Legislature passed a bill legally defining marriage as a union between two individuals. It passed the House in a 43-13 vote and the Senate in an 18-11 vote. On March 14, 2016, Governor Kate Brown signed the bill and it took effect immediately. The definition of marriage in the state of Oregon is now the following:\nWith same-sex couples allowed to marry in Oregon, an April 2014 study by UCLA's Williams Institute found that allowing marriage for same-sex couples would add $47.3 million to Oregon's economy during the first three years. The study estimated allowing marriages for same-sex couples would also add 468 new jobs to Oregon's economy.\n\nBy county, most same-sex marriages those two years were performed in Multnomah, Washington and Lane counties. No same-sex marriages were recorded in Gilliam, Harney, Lake, Sherman and Wheeler counties.\n\nThe state stopped recording marriages by the sex of the partners in 2016. As such, only data for 2014 and 2015 exists.\n\nA June 2011 Public Policy Polling survey found that 48% of Oregon voters thought that marriage for same-sex couples should be legal, while 42% thought it should be illegal and 11% were not sure. A separate question on the same survey found that 76% of Oregon voters supported the legal recognition of same-sex couples, with 43% supporting same-sex marriage, 33% supporting civil unions but not marriage, 22% favoring no legal recognition and 1% not sure.\n\nA June 2012 Public Policy Polling survey found that 46% of Oregon voters thought that marriage for same-sex couples should be legal, while 45% thought it should be illegal and 9% were not sure. A separate question on the same survey found that 74% of Oregon voters supported the legal recognition of same-sex couples, with 44% supporting same-sex marriage, 30% supporting civil unions but not marriage, 23% favoring no legal recognition and 3% not sure.\n\nA December 2012 Public Policy Polling survey found that 54% of Oregon voters thought marriage for same-sex couples should be allowed, while 40% thought it should not be allowed. 5% were not sure.\n\nAccording to an April 2013 DHM Research poll, 49% of Oregon voters supported changing the Oregon Constitution to allow marriage for same-sex couples, 42% were opposed and 9% were undecided.\n\nA February 2014 poll released by Oregon United For Marriage showed that 55% of the state supported marriage for same-sex couples while 41% were opposed.\n\nAccording to a May 2014 DHM Research poll, 58% of Oregon voters supported changing the Oregon Constitution to allow marriage for same-sex couples, 36% were opposed and 6% were undecided.\n\nA May 2014 Public Policy Polling survey found that 54% of Oregon voters thought same-sex marriage should be allowed, while 40% thought it should not be allowed. 6% were not sure.\n\nAccording to the Public Religion Research Institute (PRRI), in 2015 and 2016, respectively, 62% and 65% of Oregon residents supported same-sex marriage. By 2017 (according to the PRRI), support had increased to 67%, with 25% opposed and 8% undecided.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2258995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258995", "title": "Arrabbiata sauce", "text": "Arrabbiata sauce\n\nArrabbiata sauce, or \"sugo all'arrabbiata\" in Italian, is a spicy sauce for pasta made from garlic, tomatoes, and dried red chili peppers cooked in olive oil. The sauce originates from the Lazio region, around Rome. \"Arrabbiata\" literally means \"angry\" in Italian; the name of the sauce refers to the spiciness of the chili peppers.\n\nArrabbiata sauce is usually served with penne pasta. The dish has been celebrated several times in Italian movies, notably in Marco Ferreri's \"La Grande Bouffe\" and Federico Fellini's \"Roma\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2258996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2258996", "title": "Richmond County Bank Ballpark", "text": "Richmond County Bank Ballpark\n\nThe Richmond County Bank Ballpark at St. George (RCB Ballpark) is a baseball stadium located on the north-eastern tip of Staten Island. The ballpark is the home of the Staten Island Yankees, the NY-Penn League affiliate of the New York Yankees, and of Wagner College Seahawks Baseball. The ballpark was also home of the city's Pro Cricket team the New York Storm in 2004. In addition, local high schools have the chance to play at least one game at the Richmond County Bank Ballpark. The Ballpark at St. George is more commonly referred to as Staten Island Yankees Stadium instead of its proper name, whose naming rights were given to Richmond County Savings Bank.\n\nThe site on which the ballpark was built, on St. George overlooking New York Harbor, was once the site of the B&O Railroad rail yards for the City of New York, and the current stadium parking lot was the site of Major League Baseball in the 1880s. The New York Metropolitans of the American Association played at the St. George Grounds in 1886–1887 and the New York Giants played there while awaiting the construction of the second Polo Grounds.\n\nRichmond County Bank Ballpark was part of a deal with both the Yankees and New York Mets, brokered by then-Mayor Rudy Giuliani. Due to Major League Baseball territory rules, the Yankees and Mets have veto power over each other (and any other Major League Baseball franchise), if they want to bring an affiliated minor-league team into the New York City metropolitan area. The Yankees and Mets had attempted to move minor-league teams to the area in the past, only to be turned down with their rival. With help (and public money) from the mayor, both teams agreed to allow each other to have a minor-league team in the city in return for new stadiums. The Mets moved a franchise to a new stadium, called Keyspan Park (renamed MCU Park in 2010), in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn.\n\nA groundbreaking ceremony was held on June 8, 2000, upon which RCB's sponsorship was announced. The park opened a little more than a year later on June 24, 2001.\n\nWhen the September 11 attacks happened across New York Harbor, the RCB Ballpark was used as a staging area for emergency workers due to its proximity to the Staten Island Ferry's St. George Terminal, and thus to Manhattan. After the attacks, the RCB Ballpark soon became a \"spiritual link and sight line to Manhattan\" for Staten Island residents.\n\nIn 2005, RCB Ballpark hosted two of the four concerts of the Across the Narrows Festival. The other two concerts took place simultaneously at KeySpan Park. On August 17, 2010, RCB Ballpark hosted the NY-Penn League All Star Game. This was the ballpark's first opportunity to host the game and the second time that it was held in New York City.\n\nOn August 5, 2017, Impact Wrestling hosted a live event at the stadium. 1,100 fans attended the event.\n\nBeginning in 2018, the Richmond County Bank Ballpark was host to the MAAC Baseball Tournament., the stadium will continue to host the tournament until at least 2023.\n\nThe Richmond County Bank Ballpark was designed by Populous. It was designed to take advantage of the stadium's location overlooking New York Harbor. The main entrance to the stadium is located on street level with the seating bowl and field built below street level. Sails at each entrance are a reference to the Staten Island Ferry boats, which frequently pass nearby, and the St. George Ferry Terminal, which is about away. The batter's eye in center field is able to retract so that spectators can view the Manhattan skyline.\n\nRCB Ballpark has 18 regular-sized luxury suites along with a 60-person Skyline Suite with one of the best views of the harbor. A small kids’ area is located down the left-field line with games.\n\nA replica of the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge is located on top of the main scoreboard.\n\nThe outfield walls have changed several times over the course of the stadium's history. Originally the stadium had four LED video boards spaced out on the outfield wall that would display rotating advertisements throughout the game. After these boards malfunctioned the team replaced them with traditional signage along the wall. These signs were replaced with a new video board in right field in 2007. The new video board is one of the longest in the minors. Also in 2007 the Ballpark received a brand new high-definition main video board on top of the scoreboard.\n\nThe St. George Terminal of the Staten Island Ferry is less than a five-minute walk from the ballpark. The S40 and S44 buses directly serve the stadium, but the stadium is accessible from the buses that terminate at the St. George Ferry Terminal.\n\nThe St. George station of the Staten Island Railway is also at the ferry terminal. From 2001 to 2009, on game days during the baseball season, SIR trains served the RCB Ballpark station adjacent to the stadium, with trains from both St. George and Tottenville. In 2010, train service to RCB Ballpark station was suspended due to budget cuts from the MTA.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2259013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2259013", "title": "Centennial Field", "text": "Centennial Field\n\nCentennial Field is the name of the baseball stadium at the University of Vermont in Burlington, Vermont, and is the home of the Vermont Lake Monsters of the New York–Penn League in Minor League Baseball, the Class A Short-Season affiliate of the Oakland Athletics.\n\nBeyond the left-field fence is the former home of the University of Vermont's men's and women's soccer teams, which also served as home field for its men's and women's lacrosse teams, and its college football team (1900–1974).\n\nThe facility takes its name, Centennial Field, from the fact that the land on which it was built was dedicated to its current purpose on July 6, 1904, at the conclusion of the three-day celebration of the 100th anniversary of the first graduating class of the University of Vermont (UVM). Its first baseball game was on April 17, 1906, with UVM's 10–4 victory over the University of Maine. Larry Gardner was the first batter for UVM. Future-Boston Red Sox pitcher Ray Collins started the game for Vermont and threw the first pitch at the ballpark. Gardner and Collins are among 11 former Catamounts to reach the major leagues, the latest being Matt Duffy, who played for UVM during 2008–2009 and for the Houston Astros during 2015–2016.\n\nIn addition to the baseball field, the adjacent soccer field was used by UVM's college football team until 1974, and UVM's men's and women's lacrosse teams in the 1990s through 2006. The school's men's soccer team played there from 1975 to 2011 and the women played there from 1995 to 2011 before moving to Virtue Field on campus. The Centennial Field soccer stands had 5,000 seats and drew America East record crowds during the 1989 postseason when UVM advanced to the NCAA Men's Soccer Championship East Regional Finals with wins over Yale and UConn. Vermont hosted the long-running Smith Barney Men's Soccer Classic at Centennial Field that featured many national powers including UCLA, Stanford, Old Dominion, San Francisco, New Mexico and North Carolina. Its recent women's soccer tournament has featured Indiana, Notre Dame and Villanova.\n\nDuring the era that Catamounts had a football team, Centennial Field had stands on both sides of the gridiron. UVM's game with UMass in 1966 had a record crowd of 10,000 fans. That season, Vermont featured Little All-American halfback Bobby Mitchell and UMass had future NFL quarterback Greg Landry. The football field was also the home to several Vermont high school state championship games.\n\nThe baseball park was part of the sports complex constructed as part of the UVM Centennial celebration. The original wooden baseball bleachers burned on March 12, 1913. The current concrete and steel main grandstand was erected in 1922. Today, it seats 4,415 for baseball.\n\nThe first UVM ice hockey game was played on the football portion of Centennial Field. The field's large foul territory comes from the running track that at one time circled the park, including the area where the grandstand currently stands.\n\nIn the summer of 2005, Centennial Field was the Vermont stop on ESPN's \"50 States in 50 Days\" tour. In 2007, it was recognized by ESPN.com's Jim Caple as one of the top 10 ballpark destinations in the U.S. It is also featured in the 2008 book \"101 Baseball Places To See Before You Strike Out\" by Josh Pahigian.\n\nCentennial Field showed its age and was in need of repair in 2010 to meet minor league baseball ballpark standards. Much needed upgrades began in earnest after that season with Vermont Lake Monsters owner Ray Pecor investing in over $1 million in improvements prior to the start of the 2012 season, and another $1 million prior to 2013. Pecor made these improvements -including new lights, a state-of-the-art video scoreboard and many field-surface improvements after agreeing with then-UVM president John Bramley on a 20-year lease just $1 per year.\n\nOn June 28, 2012, Oakland extended its minor league player development contract through the end of the 2014 season. In the announcement Athletics vice president and general manager Billy Beane was quoted as saying, \"The baseball history and community support in Burlington makes it a very special place. We look forward to this partnership growing for many years to come.\"\n\nIn 2003, 2005, and 2006, the field hosted the America East Conference Baseball Tournament. In 2003 and 2006, Vermont won the conference's regular season championship. In the past, it also hosted American Legion Baseball and was home to the American Legion Northeast Regional tournament in 2007.\n\nOn February 20, 2009, it lost its longest tenant with Director of Athletics Dr. Robert Corran announcing the University of Vermont would discontinue the varsity baseball (and varsity softball) program following the completion of the 2009 season. Corran said at the time that he expected that the university would continue to maintain and the baseball field before Bramley stepped in by leasing it to the Lake Monsters for 20 years starting in 2012. The UVM baseball team played its last home game of the 2009 season at Centennial Field on May 12, 2009, when they hosted Bryant in a midweek non-conference doubleheader. The Catamounts last contest was two weeks later at the 2009 America East Baseball Championship in Endicott, New York, UVM won nine of its last 10 conference games to qualify for the postseason for the seventh time since 2002. Five members of the 2009 team, Justin Albert, Matt Duffy, Justin Milo, Ethan Paquette and Joe Serafin, would be drafted by or sign with major league organizations.\n\nWith the movement of UVM's soccer facility to Virtue Field after the 2011 season, baseball became the primary sport played at Centennial Field. In addition to the Lake Monsters, the Vermont Principal's Association's four state championship games returned to Centennial Field in 2012 after a two-year absence.\n\nCentennial Field has been home to affiliated minor league and summer collegiate baseball teams through the years.\n\nDr. Clarence Beecher, a one-time mayor of Burlington and dean of the UVM College of Medicine, led a group that brought the Philadelphia Athletics' Provincial League Class C team to play at Centennial Field in 1955, Vermont's first affiliated minor league team. The Provincial League was founded in 1935 and based in Quebec. The League was affiliated with the National Association from 1940 to 1943 and 1950 to 1955. Between 1950 and 1955, it was a Class C minor-league; the Philadelphia Athletics had an affiliate during this time. In 1954, the American League Athletics were based in Philadelphia and their Provincial League club in Drummondville, Quebec.\n\nDr. Beecher had been president of the Burlington Cardinals during the Northern League's final season and assumed the same position with the new club when the Provincial League Dummondville club became available in the fall of 1954.\n\nThe 1955 Burlington Athletics attracted 51,267 fans to Centennial Field for the season, the second highest attendance in the League. Burlington went 65–64 to finish in third-place, 20.5 games behind the first-place St. Jean Canadians. Burlington pitcher Jack Hale tied for the league-lead in wins with 17. In the playoffs, Burlington beat first-place St. Jean in the first round but lost the championship to the Quebec Braves, four games to one. Two of the 1955 Athletics, pitcher Bob Davis and outfielder Bill Kern would reach the major leagues.\n\nThe Provincial League was not financially sustainable and disbanded prior to the 1956 season.\n\nAffiliated minor League baseball returned to Centennial Field in 1984 when Mike Agganis moved his AA Eastern League Lynn Pirates from Lynn, Massachusetts to Burlington. The club had been affiliated with the Pittsburgh Pirates and Agganis signed a four-year agreement with the Cincinnati Reds. The club was renamed the Vermont Reds.\n\nThe club finished in fourth-place in 1984 and 1985, and in second-place in 1986. The Reds excelled in the post-season and won the Eastern League championship each of these three years. Vermont finished fourth again in 1987 but lost in the League finals. Barry Larkin, Jeff Montgomery, Rob Dibble, Kal Daniels, Chris Sabo, and Norm Charlton all starred in Burlington and became the core of the 1990 World Champion Cincinnati Reds.\n\nLarkin had the most distinguished career of all of the Vermont Reds alumni playing for Cincinnati from 1986 to 2004. A 12-time National League all-star and three-time Gold Glove Award winner, he was the 1995 National League Most Valuable Player and was inducted into the National Baseball Hall of Fame in 2012.\n\nAfter the 1987 season, Cincinnati signed a new affiliation agreement with the Chattanooga Lookouts. The Seattle Mariners had themselves been affiliated with Chattanooga and signed with Agganis and the Burlington franchise. The Vermont Reds became the Vermont Mariners.\n\nThe team finished second in the Eastern League behind the Glens Falls Tigers. Vermont made the playoffs but lost to the Albany-Colonie Yankees in the finals. Mariners manager Rich Morales was named Eastern League Manager of the Year and Jim Wilson and Omar Vizquel were Eastern League All-Stars.\n\nKen Griffey Jr. was selected by the Seattle Mariners with the first pick of the 1987 Major League Baseball draft. Griffey played for the Bellingham Mariners in 1987 and spent most of the 1988 season with the Class A California League San Bernardino Spirit. Griffey was promoted to Burlington and played at Centennial Field late in the 1988 season. He played in 17 games for the Mariners and hit two home runs. In 2016, Griffey was enshrined in the National Baseball Hall of Fame, joining Larkin.\n\nFuture major league star shortstop Omar Vizquel spent the bulk of the 1988 season with the Mariners hitting .254 with 30 stolen bases, before he was called up to Triple A in early August, prior to Griffey becoming active. Vizquel that year showed glimpses of his outstanding fielding that would earn him 11 Gold Gloves throughout his big league career, second-most among shortstops in major league history.\n\nBy September 1988, with the team in the Eastern League playoffs, Agganis had decided to move the franchise to Canton, Ohio. Canton was building a brand-new ballpark, Thurman Munson Memorial Stadium, which would have a capacity of 5,700. More so, the Canton metropolitan area offered twice the population of Burlington. Agganis told \"The New York Times\", \"Our attendance has averaged out to about 85,000 over five years in Burlington. In Canton, we can probably do between 225,000 and 300,000 attendance.\" The franchise moved to Canton after the 1988 season, affiliated with Cleveland, and became the Canton–Akron Indians.\n\nMinor league baseball returned to Centennial Field in 1994. Burlington businessman Ray Pecor, owner of Lake Champlain Transportation Co. in Burlington since 1976, purchased the franchise rights of the Jamestown Expos and brought minor league baseball back to Burlington.\n\nThe Vermont Expos debuted at Centennial Field on June 16, 1994. They lost 6–5 to the Pittsfield Mets but more than 5,000 fans attended the game.\n\nIn the franchise's second season in Burlington, the Expos won the 1995 McNamara Division title and in 1996, it repeated as division champs and captured its only New York Penn League championship.\n\nThe Expos passed one million in cumulative attendance during the 2002 season. The team changed its name to the Lake Monsters in 2006, one year after the big league parent franchise Montreal Expos moved to Washington and became the Nationals. The 2005 Vermont Expos are the last professional team to be named the Expos.\n\nIn 2011, Vermont changed its major league affiliation from the Washington Nationals (National League) to the Oakland Athletics (American League). That season Vermont returned to the NYP postseason for the first time in 15 seasons by capturing the Stedler Division pennant on the final day of the regular season.\n\nSince the franchise moved to Vermont in 1994, 68 former Expos/Lake Monsters have reached the major leagues (as of July 2015) including future standouts Addison Russell, Orlando Cabrera, Jamey Carroll, Milton Bradley, Jorge Julio, Jason Bay, Ian Desmond, Jordan Zimmermann, Tommy Milone, and Danny Espinosa.\n\nThe summer collegiate Northern League (baseball, 1934–1952) Burlington Cardinals played at Centennial Field from 1935 to 1941 and from 1946 to 1952. The league disbanded when it was not sanctioned by ECAC and NCAA member institutions due to its semi-professional status. Collegiate summer leagues since can include only amateur players.\n\nAmong the many future major leaguers who played for the Cardinals, Johnny Podres made his professional debut at Centennial Field in 1950 pitching for Cardinals. In 2005, the Vermont Expos invited Podres back to Centennial Field to throw out the first pitch in honor of the 50th anniversary of the 1955 Brooklyn Dodgers World Series championship.\n\nThe collegiate Northern League was revived in the late 1970s through the 1980s and Centennial Field was the home of the Burlington Expos, Burlington A's and the Queen City Royals. The first edition of the Burlington Expos collegiate team was led by current Clemson head baseball coach, Jack Leggett, a native of South Burlington who also was the coach of the UVM baseball team at the time. Future major league pitchers Kirk McCaskill and Mike Rochford hurled for the Expos during the summers.\n\nThe Vermont Division for Historic Preservation erected a marker at the ballpark in 1997. It reads,\n\nNamed to commemorate the 100th anniversary of the University of Vermont's first graduating class, Centennial Field has been the home of UVM athletics since 1906. The three ballparks that have stood on this site have hosted semi- professional and minor league baseball, as well as exhibitions by visiting Major League and Negro League ballclubs. The current grandstand, constructed in 1922, is one of the oldest still in use. Among the outstanding players who have graced Centennial's diamond are Larry Gardner, Ray Collins, Tris Speaker, Jesse Hubbard, Robin Roberts, Kirk McCaskill, Barry Larkin, and Ken Griffey, Jr.\n\n"}
