{"id": "1892829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892829", "title": "Columbus Civic Center", "text": "Columbus Civic Center\n\nColumbus Civic Center is a 10,000-seat multi-purpose arena in Columbus, Georgia, built in 1996.\n\nThe arena was built in 1996, along with a Softball Complex, to fully complete South Commons (an area consisting of a baseball and football stadium, and a skateboard park). The venue replaced the Municipal Auditorium, which was constructed in 1955.\n\nThe Columbus Civic Center is home to the Columbus Lions indoor football team, the Columbus River Dragons professional ice hockey team, and the Auburn Tigers college ice hockey team. Several other sports teams have also used the arena in the past. The Columbus Cottonmouths ice hockey team played in the arena from 1996 until 2017, the Columbus Riverdragons basketball team from 2001 to 2005, the Columbus Wardogs indoor football team from 2001 to 2004, the Chattahoochee Valley Vipers indoor football team during 2006, and the Columbus Comets indoor soccer team during 1997.\n\nThe arena is also the primary concert venue in the Greater Columbus area, hosting artists such as KISS (in 1997), Kelly Clarkson (in 2009), and Lady Antebellum (in 2012). The Civic Center has also hosted several professional wrestling events, such as World Wrestling Entertainment's Friday Night Smackdown (in 2006 and 2014), and WCW Monday Nitro (in 1996).\n\nIn 2016, the arena also hosted the Columbus District Qualifier of the FIRST Robotics Competition Peachtree District. 40 teams attended this event making it the largest district qualifier of the Peachtree District, as well as the first in the history of the Peachtree District. The Fernbank LINKS (FRC Team 4468), Columbus Space Program (FRC Team 4188), and RoboMustangs (FRC Team 5074) were the winners of the event. G3 Robotics (FRC Team 1648) also won the Chairman's Award, the most prestigious award in the FIRST Robotics Competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892832", "title": "Berglund Center", "text": "Berglund Center\n\nBerglund Center (originally called the Roanoke Civic Center) is a 10,500-seat multi-purpose arena located in the Williamson Road neighborhood of Roanoke, Virginia. It was built in 1971. It was the former home to the Roanoke Dazzle basketball team, as well as the Roanoke Express and Roanoke Valley Vipers ice hockey teams. Currently, it is the home of the Roanoke Rail Yard Dawgs of the Southern Professional Hockey League, Virginia Tech, Radford University and Roanoke College men's ice hockey teams. The arena is also the home of the annual boys basketball games between Roanoke's two city high schools, Patrick Henry High School and William Fleming High School.\n\nOpened in October 1971, the Roanoke Civic Center was also the former home of the American Basketball Association (1967-1976) professional basketball franchise Virginia Squires. The Squires played there (in addition to the Norfolk Scope, Richmond Coliseum and Hampton Coliseum; all within the state of Virginia) from 1971 to 1972. The Virginia Squires used the Civic Center for only one season due to low attendance, before folding in 1976. Elvis Presley performed there in 1972, 1974, 1976, and was due to return in 1977, about a week after his death. It hosted 251 professional wrestling events between 1975 and 2013. WCW held Fall Brawl (1994) there and \"Monday Nitro\" on March 31, 1997. WWE brought \"Monday Night Raw\" on December 1, 1997, May 6, 2013, and November 17, 2014. The 1977-1981 Southern Conference men's basketball tournaments were held there as well.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2006, professional basketball was active again at the Roanoke Civic Center, with the National Basketball Association's D-League franchise, the Roanoke Dazzle. College basketball was also recently contested there, in the form of the Big South Conference men's basketball tournaments in 2001 and 2002. The Metro Conference men's basketball tournament was held here in 1991. When both the Dazzle and Vipers folded after the 2005-06 season, the Roanoke Civic Center was left with 60 open dates to fill for the upcoming fall and winter. Eventually, nearly two-thirds of these open dates were awarded to the Virginia Tech, Radford University and Roanoke College hockey clubs, the arena's primary tenants until 2016, when the Mississippi Surge relocated to Roanoke, becoming the Rail Yard Dawgs.\n\nBuilt at the same time as the Scope and Richmond Coliseum, the Roanoke Civic Center is the area's premier sports and entertainment venue. There are eight restrooms and six concession stands at the arena, which has a ceiling height and 10 spotlights as well as a portable stage that is no larger than 60-by-40 feet. There are 8,372 permanent seats at the arena; the arena floor measures over . The Eclipse forms the Coliseum's half-house configuration. The arena recently began a $6.2 million renovation project expected to last until 2016. The arena's heating system has been replaced, and plans call for upgrades to the arena's electrical system and to all arena entrances, as well as for all seats to be replaced.\n\nAdjacent are a exhibit hall with of column-free space, and a 2,440-seat theatre that can be used for concerts, Broadway shows, the Roanoke Symphony Orchestra and other special events. The theatre features a -by-105-foot stage; 1,625 seats in the theatre are in the orchestra level, 295 in the loge and 520 in the balcony. After recent renovations, the facility became known as the Roanoke Performing Arts Theatre.\n\nA special events center was added to the Civic Center in 2007; it is used for trade shows, meetings, conventions and other special events. It can hold up to 3,066 seated, 5,850 standing. The ceiling height is 32 feet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892836", "title": "Hayashi Razan", "text": "Hayashi Razan\n\n, also known as Hayashi Dōshun, was a Japanese Neo-Confucian philosopher and writer, serving as a tutor and an advisor to the first four \"shōguns\" of the Tokugawa \"bakufu\". He is also attributed with first listing the Three Views of Japan. Razan was the founder of the Hayashi clan of Confucian scholars.\n\nRazan was an influential scholar, teacher and administrator. Together with his sons and grandsons, he is credited with establishing the official neo-Confucian doctrine of the Tokugawa shogunate. Razan's emphasis on the values inherent in a static conservative perspective provided the intellectual underpinnings for the Edo bakufu. Razan also reinterpreted Shinto, and thus created a foundation for the eventual development of Confucianised Shinto in the 20th century.\n\nThe intellectual foundation of Razan's life's work was based on early studies with Fujiwara Seika (1561–1619), the first Japanese scholar who is known for a close study of Confucius and the Confucian commentators. This \"kuge\" noble had become a Buddhist priest; but Seika's dissatisfaction with the philosophy and doctrines of Buddhism led him to a study of Confucianism. In due course, Seika drew other similarly motivated scholars to join him in studies which were greatly influenced by the work of Chinese Neo-Confucianist Zhu Xi, a Sung-dynasty savant. Zhu Xi and Seika emphasized the role of the individual as a functionary of a society which naturally settles into a certain hierarchical form. He separated people into four distinct classes: samurai (ruling class), farmers, artisans and merchants.\n\nRazan developed a practical blending of Shinto and Confucian beliefs and practices. In particular, he argued that Shinto was a provisional and local form of Confucian ideas, enabling a Confucian interpretation of Shinto shrine rituals. This coherent construct of inter-related ideas lent themselves to a well-accepted program of samurai and bureaucrat educational, training and testing protocols. In 1607, Hayashi was accepted as a political adviser to the second \"shōgun\", Tokugawa Hidetada.\n\nRazan became the rector of Edo's Confucian Academy, the Shōhei-kō (afterwards known at the Yushima Seidō) which was built on land provided by the \"shōgun\". This institution stood at the apex of the country-wide educational and training system which was created and maintained by the Tokugawa shogunate. Razan had the honorific title \"Daigaku-no-kami,\" which became hereditary in his family. It also happened that the position as head of the Seidō became hereditary in the Hayashi family. \"Daigaku-no-kami\", in the context of the Tokugawa shogunate hierarchy, effectively translates as \"Head of the State University.\n\nIn the elevated context his father engendered, Hayashi Gahō (formerly Harukatsu), worked on editing a chronicle of Japanese emperors compiled in conformance with his father's principles. \"Nihon Ōdai Ichiran\" grew into a seven-volume text which was completed in 1650. Gahō himself was accepted as a noteworthy scholar in that period; but the Hayashi and the Shōhei-kō links to the work's circulation are part of the explanation for this work's 18th and 19th century popularity. Contemporary readers must have found some degree of usefulness in this summary drawn from historical records.\n\nThe narrative of \"Nihon Ōdai Ichiran\" stops around 1600, most likely in deference to the sensibilities of the Tokugawa regime. Gahō's text did not continue up through his present day; but rather, he terminated the chronicles just before the last pre-Tokugawa ruler. This book was published in the mid-17th century and it was reissued in 1803, \"perhaps because it was a necessary reference work for officials\".\n\nRazan's successor as the Tokugawa's chief scholar was his third son, Gahō. After Razan's death, Gahō finished work his father had begun, including a number of other works designed to help readers learn from Japan's history. In 1670, the Hayashi family's scholarly reputation was burnished when Gahō published the 310 volumes of \"The Comprehensive History of Japan\" (本朝通鑑, \"Honchō-tsugan\").\n\nRazan's writings were compiled, edited and posthumously published by Hayashi Gahō and his younger brother, Hayashi Dokkōsai (formerly Morikatsu):\n\nRazan's grandson, Hayashi Hōkō (formerly Nobuatsu) would head the Yushima Seidō and he would bear the inherited title \"Daigaku-no kami\". Hōkō's progeny would continue the work begun in the 18th century by the scholarly Hayashi patriarch.\n\nAs a political theorist, Hayashi lived to witness his philosophical and pragmatic reasoning become a foundation for the dominant ideology of the \"bakufu\". The political dominance of Hayashi's ideas lasted until the end of the 18th century. This evolution developed in part from Razan's equating samurai with the cultured governing class. Razan helped to legitimize the role of the militaristic \"bakufu\" at the beginning of its existence. His philosophy moreover encouraged the samurai class to cultivate themselves, a trend which became increasingly widespread over the course of his lifetime and after his death. Razan's aphorism encapsulates this view:\nHayashi Razan and his family played a significant role is helping to crystallize the theoretical underpinnings of the Tokugawa regime.\n\nIn January 1858, Hayashi Akira, the hereditary \"Daigaku-no-kami\" descendant of Hayashi Razan, headed the bakufu delegation that sought advice from the emperor in deciding how to deal with newly assertive foreign powers. This was the first time the Emperor's counsel was actively sought since the establishment of the Tokugawa shogunate. The most obvious consequence of this transitional overture was the increased numbers of messengers which were constantly streaming back and forth between Tokyo and Kyoto during the next decade. In the 19th century, this scholar-bureaucrat found himself at a crucial nexus of managing political change, moving arguably \"by the book\" through uncharted waters with Razan's well-settled theories as the only guide.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892841", "title": "Cleavage (embryo)", "text": "Cleavage (embryo)\n\nIn embryology, cleavage is the division of cells in the early embryo. The process follows fertilization, with the transfer being triggered by the activation of a cyclin-dependent kinase complex. The zygotes of many species undergo rapid cell cycles with no significant overall growth, producing a cluster of cells the same size as the original zygote. The different cells derived from cleavage are called blastomeres and form a compact mass called the morula. Cleavage ends with the formation of the blastula.\n\nDepending mostly on the amount of yolk in the egg, the cleavage can be holoblastic (total or entire cleavage) or meroblastic (partial cleavage). The pole of the egg with the highest concentration of yolk is referred to as the vegetal pole while the opposite is referred to as the animal pole.\n\nCleavage differs from other forms of cell division in that it increases the number of cells and nuclear mass without increasing the cytoplasmic mass. This means that with each successive subdivision, there is roughly half the cytoplasm in each daughter cell than before that division, and thus the ratio of nuclear to cytoplasmic material increases.\n\nThe rapid cell cycles are facilitated by maintaining high levels of proteins that control cell cycle progression such as the cyclins and their associated cyclin-dependent kinases (cdk). The complex Cyclin B/CDK1 a.k.a. MPF (maturation promoting factor) promotes entry into mitosis.\n\nThe processes of karyokinesis (mitosis) and cytokinesis work together to result in cleavage. The mitotic apparatus is made up of a central spindle and polar asters made up of polymers of tubulin protein called microtubules. The asters are nucleated by centrosomes and the centrosomes are organized by centrioles brought into the egg by the sperm as basal bodies. Cytokinesis is mediated by the contractile ring made up of polymers of actin protein called microfilaments. Karyokinesis and cytokinesis are independent but spatially and temporally coordinated processes. While mitosis can occur in the absence of cytokinesis, cytokinesis requires the mitotic apparatus.\n\nThe end of cleavage coincides with the beginning of zygotic transcription. This point is referred to as the midblastula transition and appears to be controlled by the nuclear:cytoplasmic ratio (about 1/6).\n\nDeterminate cleavage (also called mosaic cleavage) is in most protostomes. It results in the developmental fate of the cells being set early in the embryo development. Each blastomere produced by early embryonic cleavage does not have the capacity to develop into a complete embryo.\n\nA cell can only be indeterminate (also called regulative) if it has a complete set of undisturbed animal/vegetal cytoarchitectural features. It is characteristic of deuterostomes – when the original cell in a deuterostome embryo divides, the two resulting cells can be separated, and each one can individually develop into a whole organism.\n\nIn the absence of a large concentration of yolk, four major cleavage types can be observed in isolecithal cells (cells with a small even distribution of yolk) or in mesolecithal cells or microlecithal cells (moderate amount of yolk in a gradient) – bilateral holoblastic, radial holoblastic, rotational holoblastic, and spiral holoblastic, cleavage. These holoblastic cleavage planes pass all the way through isolecithal zygotes during the process of cytokinesis. Coeloblastula is the next stage of development for eggs that undergo these radial cleavaging. In holoblastic eggs, the first cleavage always occurs along the vegetal-animal axis of the egg, the second cleavage is perpendicular to the first. From here, the spatial arrangement of blastomeres can follow various patterns, due to different planes of cleavage, in various organisms.\n\nIn the presence of a large amount of yolk in the fertilized egg cell, the cell can undergo partial, or meroblastic, cleavage. Two major types of meroblastic cleavage are discoidal and superficial.\n\n\n\nDifferences exist between the cleavage in placental mammals and the cleavage in other animals. \n\nMammals have a slow rate of division that is between 12 and 24 hours. These cellular divisions are asynchronous. Zygotic transcription starts at the two-, four-, or eight-cell stage. Cleavage is holoblastic and rotational.\n\nAt the eight-cell stage, having undergone three cleavages the embryo goes through some changes. At this stage the cells begin to tightly adhere in a process known as compaction.. Recently, it has been proposed that in placental mammals the cells become more likely to contribute to one of the first two cell types to arise, the inner cell mass or trophectoderm, depending on their position within the compacted embryo. A single cell can be removed from a pre-compaction eight- cell embryo and used for genetic testing and the embryo will recover.\n\nMost of the blastomeres in this stage become polarized and develop tight junctions with the other blastomeres. This process leads to the development of two different populations of cells: Polar cells on the outside and apolar cells on the inside. The outer cells, called the trophoblast cells, pump sodium in from the outside, which automatically brings water in with it to the basal (inner) surface to form a blastocoel cavity in a process called cavitation. The trophoblast cells will eventually give rise to the embryonic contribution to the placenta called the chorion. The inner cells are pushed to one side of the cavity (because the embryo isn't getting any bigger) to form the inner cell mass (ICM) and will give rise to the embryo and some extraembryonic membranes. At this stage, the embryo is called a blastocyst.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892855", "title": "David Mountbatten, 3rd Marquess of Milford Haven", "text": "David Mountbatten, 3rd Marquess of Milford Haven\n\nDavid Michael Mountbatten, 3rd Marquess of Milford Haven, (12 May 1919 – 14 April 1970), styled Viscount Alderney before 1921 and Earl of Medina between 1921 and 1938, was the son of the 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven and Countess Nadejda de Torby.\n\nLord Milford Haven was born in 1919. He was the only son of George Mountbatten, 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven (who had been born as Prince George of Battenberg) and Russian Countess Nadejda (Nada) Torby who wed in 1916. His paternal grandparents were Prince Louis of Battenberg and Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine. Therefore, he was a great-great-grandson of Queen Victoria. His maternal grandparents were Grand Duke Michael Mikhailovich of Russia and Countess Sophie of Merenberg. He is also a descendant of the Russian writer Aleksandr Pushkin as well as Peter the Great's African protégé, General Abram Petrovich Gannibal.\n\nHe grew up at the family home in Holyport, Berkshire and enjoyed a close friendship with his first cousin Prince Philip of Greece and Denmark, later the Duke of Edinburgh. They both attended Dartmouth Naval College. He served as best man to the prince at Prince Philip's marriage in November 1947 to the Princess Elizabeth, later Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nWith the death of his father on 8 April 1938, he became the 3rd Marquess of Milford Haven and head of the House of Mountbatten.\n\nDuring the Second World War Milford Haven served in the Royal Navy. In 1942 he was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for taking the destroyer \"Kandahar\" through a minefield in an attempt to rescue the cruiser \"Neptune\". In 1943 he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross for his work on Malta convoy operations. He retired from the Navy in 1948. He subsequently joined The Castaways' Club, which enabled him to keep in close contact with many of his naval contemporaries.\n\nHe then played a prominent part in the London demi-monde of the 1950s, which brought together a colourful mix of aristocrats and shadowy social climbers like osteopath Stephen Ward. This hard-partying set formed the nucleus for the Profumo affair.\n\nMilford Haven was married twice: \n\nMilford Haven, aged 50, died of a heart attack on 14 April 1970 in London. His ashes were buried in the Battenberg Chapel at St. Mildred's Church, Whippingham, on the Isle of Wight (photo).\n\n"}
{"id": "1892861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892861", "title": "Spermatogonium", "text": "Spermatogonium\n\nA spermatogonium (plural: \"spermatogonia\") is an undifferentiated male germ cell. Spermatogonia undergo spermatogenesis to form mature spermatozoa in the seminiferous tubules of the testis.\n\nThere are three subtypes of spermatogonia in humans:\n\nAnticancer drugs such as doxorubicin and vincristine can adversely affect male fertility by damaging the DNA of proliferative spermatogonial stem cells. Experimental exposure of rat undifferentiated spermatogonia to doxorubicin and vincristine indicated that these cells are able to respond to DNA damage by increasing their expression of DNA repair genes, and that this response likely partially prevents DNA break accumulation. In addition to a DNA repair response, exposure of spermatogonia to doxorubicin can also induce programmed cell death (apoptosis).\n"}
{"id": "1892865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892865", "title": "Economy class", "text": "Economy class\n\nEconomy class, also called third class, coach class, steerage, or to distinguish it from the slightly more expensive premium economy class, standard economy class or budget economy class, is the lowest travel class of seating in air travel, rail travel, and sometimes ferry or maritime travel. Historically, this travel class has been called tourist class or third class on ocean liners.\n\nTravel classes originated from a distinction between \"cabin class\" and \"steerage\" on sailing vessels in the 18th century. Cabin class, for wealthier passengers included small cabins and a shared dining room while \"steerage\" provided open decks with bunks often near the tackle to operate the Steer rudder in converted cargo space on the \"between decks\" area where passengers from poorer backgrounds cooked their own meals.\n\nWith the arrival of steamships, competition between ocean liner companies led some companies like the Inman Line to offer additional options to economy passengers seeking to immigrate including small shared cabins and regular meals which were termed \"Third Class\". Many large liners evolved three and sometimes four segregated cabin, dining and recreation spaces for First, Second, Third and Steerage Class passengers. After immigrant travel dropped beginning in the 1920s, steerage class was abandoned and Third Class cabins were often upgraded, redecorated and offered to budget travelers as \"Tourist Class\". This became the main low budget class for ocean travelers, gradually replacing Third Class especially during the boom in immigration after World War Two.\n\nAs ocean liners adjusted to the loss of passengers to air travel and switched to recreational cruising in the 1960s, most ships became \"one class\" to save on separate recreational and dining levels. However the evolution of the cruise ship led to a variety of premium services and exclusive dining areas. Many ferries operating on shorter routes have continued to offer cabin fares and large open accommodation for economy travelers similar to the cabin/steerage divisions or earlier eras.\n\nIn North America, it is known as coach class by companies such as Amtrak. Most European railways call it second class, except in the United Kingdom and Ireland, where it is referred to as standard class (abbreviated \"STD\" on tickets) instead. It has been re-branded in some cases to broaden expectations. In Canada Via Rail refers to coach as economy class. In India, the lowest class of service was branded third class under the British colonial rule. It was re-branded as second class following independence to avoid its former segregationist connotations. Today Indian Railways offers Economy AC-3 also in the same class. In Indonesia, the cheapest class for train is an economy class train and it is the highest percentage of train users in Indonesia for intercity and long distance travel. The economy class coach in Indonesia originally did not have air conditioning, but as the services of PT Kereta Api is developing, PT Kereta Api has launched an economy class coach with air conditioning, branded as \"Ekonomi AC\" (English: Economy with AC). Similar branding are also used by long distance bus companies through the country.\n\nGenerally economy class seats consists of a seat, sometimes with a fold-down tray, that may recline. The seat may also include a pocket attached to the back of the seat in front for storage of small items such as magazines. Depending on the configuration of the passenger compartment, luggage can be stowed in overhead racks or at each end of the coach cars.\n\nStandard class seating on British intercity trains often includes seating around permanent tables. Power sockets are available and some services offer (chargeable) Wi-Fi Internet access.\n\nIn continental Europe, second class mostly consists of open interior coaches with 2+2 seating arrangement, with or without air-conditioning, in rows or face to face, or (in some express trains) compartments of six to eight seats. Some commuter trains have a higher seating density, with 3+2 seating arrangement.\n\nIn Spain 2nd-class cabins are called Tourist class on the AVE superfast trains. They offer electric sockets and there are video and audio services on most major routes.\n\nNorth American intercity passenger trains are separated into different coach classes by the type of car (e.g., sleepers). Economy seating on North American passenger trains typically does not include meal service in the fare.\n\nEconomy class also exists on some sleeper services, most notably on most Russian Railways routes, which designates the class as \"Platzkart\", with cars featuring an open 9-bay layout, where each bay has six bunk beds in two tiers – four transversally, and two longitudinally on the opposing side of the aisle, with the lower bunks functioning as seats in daytime. Several European railways also provide similar \"coach class\" sleeper cars, commonly dubbed Couchette cars. There is a debate, though, whether Platzkart class is a full tier down from the traditional second class/\"coupe\", or is just a cheaper variant, as there used to exist an even cheaper \"hard bed\" class with three-tier bunks and no bedding, which is long since discontinued in Russia, but is still employed in China.\n\nEconomy class seats usually recline and have a fold-down table. Seat pitch ranges from , usually , and for international economy class seats. Domestic economy seat width ranges from . Full economy class is usually denoted 'Y' with schedule flexibility, but can be many other letters.\n\nA pocket on the seat in front will typically contain an airsickness bag, an inflight magazine, a duty-free catalogue, and a safety and evacuation card. Depending on the airline, extras might include a blanket, an amenities bag (e.g. ear plugs, toothpaste, eye mask), and headphones. In-flight entertainment in economy class is either a \"mainscreen\" mounted to the aircraft bulkhead providing the same viewing for all cabin passengers or individual screens for each seat that may show video on demand. For passengers sitting immediately behind a bulkhead or on the same row as an emergency exit, the in-flight entertainment screen may be contained within one of the armrests of the seat. Some low-cost carriers can charge a fee for headphones. However, economy standards vary between carriers. Aeroflot, Qantas, and Cathay Pacific offer in-flight audio and visual entertainment and meals on both international and selected domestic routes to all passengers, including those in economy, while other airlines such as Transaero may charge an additional fee for the in-flight entertainment.\n\nAvailability of food also varies. Some major carriers no longer serve meals in economy for short flights. Meals are now only generally provided on international flights. Some airport vendors have started to offer packaged meals to economy travellers that can be carried on to flights. Low-cost carriers, such as EasyJet and Ryanair, charge for food and drinks on flights. In addition, many carriers, particularly within the United States and Canada, also make economy passengers pay for airport check-in, checked bags, pillows, blankets, and headphones.\n\nMany airlines have created a slightly enhanced Economy class with, for example, a slightly larger pitch between seats such as Economy Plus from United Airlines. Arguably, such enhanced Economy classes only restore some of the comfort and amenities that were lost over the past few decades.\n\nPerhaps the first cheaper-than-standard airline flights were United's Boeing 247s between San Francisco and Los Angeles (Burbank) in 1940. Their nonstop DC-3s carried full-fare passengers ($18.95 one way) and Boeings flew a couple of two-stop flights each way for $13.90. That ended in 1942, and low fares did not reappear on scheduled airlines until 1948 when Pan Am started one DC-4 flight a day from New York La Guardia to San Juan with a $75 fare instead of the normal $133. In 1949, a tourist seat on a Pan Am DC-4 from New York to Rio cost $382 instead of $460 on the standard DC-4 making the same stops.\n\nIn late 1948, Capital Airlines started one DC-4 flight each way a day between Chicago and New York La Guardia. Each flight left at 1 AM and stopped for ten minutes at Pittsburgh (Allegheny County). Chicago-NY fare was $29.60 plus 15% federal tax; seats on all other flights cost $44.10 plus tax. Coach flights slowly spread (all domestic flights were one-class, coach or standard, until TWA started two-class 1049Gs in 1955); in 1961, domestic coach passenger-miles for the year exceeded first-class for the first time.\n\nIATA allowed transatlantic tourist fares in summer 1952: New York to London cost $270 one way instead of $395. In the next few years, tourist fares spread around the world.\n\nSeveral airlines offer a Premium Economy class to passengers willing to pay slightly more for better seats and, in some cases, better service. Premium Economy class is positioned as a middleground between Standard Economy class and business class in terms of price, comfort, and amenities. These include Air Canada, Air New Zealand, Alitalia, American Airlines, Lufthansa, Thai Airways, Cathay Pacific Airways, All Nippon Airways, British Airways, South African Airways, Virgin Australia, Virgin Atlantic, EVA Air, Qantas, Delta Airlines, JetBlue Airways, United Airlines (United offers economy plus, which is different. See below), Scandinavian Airlines, Philippine Airlines, PAL Express, Air Vistara, Singapore Airlines (from 9 August), Pakistan International Airlines (only on 777 and A310 family), Aeroflot (only on 777), China Southern Airlines and Kuwait Airways (only on Boeing 777-300ER). The definition for Premium Economy class is not standardized and varies widely from airline to airline, from a slightly larger seat pitch with no other amenities, such as Economy Plus on United Airlines, to a true separate Premium Economy class with larger and more comfortable seats, better dining options, and better service.\n\nBasic economy, a.k.a. fifth class (if premium economy is counted as third class and standard economy is counted as fourth class) or last class, is the class below regular economy. Basic economy was first provided by Delta Air Lines for America's domestic market in 2012, closely followed by American Airlines (AA) and United Airlines for some domestic routes. Both Delta Airlines and AA also plan to provide basic economy for international routes, which could see other airlines follow suit, leading to its global adoption. The class has been criticised as \"a clever way to raise the price of standard economy fares\" and for its poorly designed pricing algorithms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892867", "title": "Druuna", "text": "Druuna\n\nDruuna is an erotic science fiction and fantasy comic book character created by Italian cartoonist Paolo Eleuteri Serpieri. Most of Druuna's adventures revolve around a post-apocalyptic future, and the plot is often a vehicle for varied scenes of hardcore pornography and softcore sexual imagery. Druuna is frequently depicted as sparsely clothed or nude, and Serpieri's high quality renditions of her are often reproduced as poster prints.\n\nDruuna starred in nine volumes of the \"Morbus Gravis\" (\"Severe Disease\") series between 1985 and 2018. These stories were featured prominently in \"Métal hurlant\" and \"Heavy Metal\" magazines. Druuna has also been featured in Serpieri's numerous and popular sketchbooks, which have sold more than a million copies in twelve languages. Serpieri himself appears in many of the stories as the character Doc.\n\nDuring the thirteen years of publication of Druuna's adventures in \"Morbus Gravis\", the plot has evolved through several stages, differentiated with numerous jumps in the storyline, with some attendant inconsistencies.\n\nIn the first volumes in the series, the action unfolds in a place called The City, a futuristic but degraded urban environment. Humans live in a cramped, hostile, and decadent society, controlled by a religious oligarchy based on the knowledge of \"Truth.\" In this society, books are banned and power is exercised by a corrupt and despotic militarized bureaucracy.\n\nAlthough never clearly stated, this current era, known as the \"Age of Man\", is presumed to be the aftermath of a war. As told by the priests, an incurable, infectious disease called Evil has spread among the population that transforms people in a progressive and rapid fashion into amorphous, tentacled mutants. As a precautionary measure, all of the City's inhabitants are forcibly injected with a serum periodically distributed in overcrowded health facilities. Many believe that those found to be \"healthy\" will be sent to the City's upper levels, a place inaccessible to the majority but where those selected enjoy a better life free from want and hardship. Similarly, those infected with \"Evil\" are sent to the lower levels. Druuna and her lover Shastar exist in this environment.\n\nAfter a series of adventures, Druuna discovers that the City is actually a giant spaceship which left Earth after an unspecified cataclysm and has drifted through space for centuries. At some point, Lewis, the ship's captain, delegated control to the computer Delta, which is responsible for creating the current state of affairs. (The Priests are actually androids operated by Delta.) Delta transformed Lewis into an immortal being, using organic parts from the healthy people who had been admitted to the upper levels of the City. Now, Lewis, tired of immortality, wants to die, which would eliminate Delta and destroy the City. This conflict is partially responsible for the gradual degradation of life on the ship/planetoid.\n\nDruuna is recruited by Lewis to help him destroy Delta. Unaware of fact that it would mean destruction of the City and all its inhabitants, Druuna finds Delta and carries out Lewis's plan. At the end Lewis reveals his true plan to destroy the City, but also confesses he fell in love with her and changes his mind about destruction. In turn, Lewis puts Druuna in a state similar to hibernation for centuries, waiting for an opportunity to improve conditions on the City. The story then introduces a man named Will, who commands another ship, similar to the City, which has become, thanks to the evolution of Evil, a super-organism. It is revealed that apart from the City, humanity is not entirely extinguished, but that other groups of humans survived, using genetic engineering to improve their abilities.\n\nEmbarking on Commander Will's spacecraft, Druuna discovers that the minds of Shastar and Lewis have been merged and transferred to the new ship's computer. The disease called Evil appears among the new ship's crew, so Will and Doc (author Serpieri's alter-ego) telepathically introduce Druuna into the mind of Lewis-Shastar, discovering the elements that make up the antidote serum. When Druuna gets trapped in the computer mind, Will enters it to rescue her. Discovering that they actually have no means to develop a cure for the disease, they decide to destroy the ship and crew (as well as the computer that houses the merged minds of Shastar and Lewis). Druuna, Will, and a few others escape in a rescue capsule, where they are all put into a state of suspended animation.\n\nAfter the capsule crashes on an unknown planet, Druuna awakens alone. She is soon caught in a war between two alien species, one of which is composed of parasitic beings who need organic specimens as hosts, and the other of intelligent robots pursuing the objective of creating organic life. Apparently, the planet is Earth thousands of years after a war between men and machines resulted in the extinction of the former. The machines want to recreate their creators to try to understand humanity. Will briefly reappears and is kidnapped. Shastar also reappears, now working with the machines in their aim to recover the human species. Toward that aim, they decide to clone Druuna.\n\nThe \"Morbus Gravis\" series is noteworthy for featuring explicit content in terms of both graphic violence and sex. Volume 3, \"Creatura\", in fact, features near-totally explicit sexual penetration, and the three subsequent books feature totally uncensored penetration. The \"Heavy Metal\" reprints differ from the stand-alones by having censored hardcore portions via oversize speech/thought balloons. In vol. 5, \"Mandragora\", several pages were simply excised. The series returned to a non-explicit depiction of penetration in such scenes with vol. 7, \"The Forgotten Planet\".\n\nIn most cases, Druuna's role is that of a willing sexual object, submitting to sexual advances of all kinds with little or no complaint, other than the occasional sad pout, though she has been raped on more than one occasion in the series. Serpieri claims that the character's approach to sexual pleasures is a challenge to Judeo-Christian mores on sexuality.\n\nIn the album \"Druuna X\", Serpieri states that he styled Druuna as influenced by Valérie Kaprisky's appearance in the film \"La Femme publique\", but because of the influence of the copious Western comics he had drawn at that point, in the first few pages of \"Morbus Gravis\" Druuna appeared to exhibit Native American facial features, compared to the later appearance to which she evolved.\n\n\nThe character has also appeared in the 3D videogame \"\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1892874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892874", "title": "Ordnung", "text": "Ordnung\n\nThe Ordnung is a set of rules for Amish, Old Order Mennonite and Conservative Mennonite living. \"Ordnung\" is the German word for order, discipline, rule, arrangement, organization, or system. Because the Amish have no central church government, each assembly is autonomous and is its own governing authority. Thus, every local church maintains an individual set of rules, adhering to its own Ordnung, which may vary from district to district as each community administers its own guidelines. These rules are largely unwritten, yet they define the very essence of Amish identity. Conservative Mennonites refer to Ordnung by the English terms \"discipline\" or \"standard\" and are usually written.\n\nAnabaptists, such as the Amish, believe in a literal interpretation of the Bible. Thus the Ordnung is intended to ensure that church members live according to the biblical Word of God. The Ordnung is a set of behavioral rules, and all members within a church agree to have their lives ordered by that code. Each person is expected to live simple lives devoted to God, to family, and to the community, based upon God's laws.\n\nOutsiders may consider the Ordnung as legalistic, thereby resulting in harsh consequences when broken. But to the Amish, the Ordnung provides a strong sense of group identity; all of its rules are supported by scripture, meaning that any outside persecution is considered as the natural result of Christian discipleship. The “world”, with its grasping to gather possessions, is seen as in direct conflict with the teachings of Jesus. The Ordnung creates boundaries for the Amish, much like a children's schoolyard fence. Remaining within the enclosure allows them freedom, but to cross the fence would mean worldly danger.\n\nIn Garry Schmidt's book, \"Early Anabaptist Spirituality\", he indicates that a person who has learned to live within a respectful Ordnung was appreciating the value of freedom of heart, peace of mind, and clear conscience. Such a person had more freedom, more liberty, and more privilege than those outside the church.\n\nSome of the most common Ordnung rules are: separation from the world, hard work, a woman's submission to her husband, mode of dress, and refusal to buy insurance. Outsiders often think of the Ordnung in terms of restrictions (e.g., no electrical power lines, no telephone in the home, no personal ownership of automobiles). However, many of the Ordnung guidelines are for the purpose of guarding a person's character. The Ordnung attempts to prevent pride, envy, vanity, laziness, dishonesty, etc. Therefore, the foundations of the Amish life are: an unassuming character, the love of friends and family, and respect for the community.\n\nThe purpose of the Ordnung is to guide Amish behavior into being more Christ-like, thus defining who they are. It intends that they be separate and different from the world. The world often exhibits the human tendency of self-exaltation, and the Ordnung provides a way for the Amish to refrain from such behavior. Anything viewed as disruptive to their society, such as personal power, wealth, and status, are funneled through the Ordnung into the social order of love and brotherhood. Disobedience to these lifestyle regulations is punished by discipline initiated by the church leaders. One of the more severe actions that the Amish bishop can mete out is Shunning (Meidung).\n\nTwo types of Ordnung must be distinguished.\n\nThe first are printed rules, the second are generally verbal and are universally understood by the local members. All rules guide the Amish believer in the application and practice of godly principles.\n\nBoth types clarify what is considered worldly and sinful. To be worldly is to be lost. Any rule that is not directly supported by biblical references will be justified through reasoning as to why violating it would cause the believer to turn worldly.\n\nSeparation from the world means to be different from the world, and the congregation must agree on how they are to be different. This is accomplished through the Ordnung. Two times each year the members come together (Ordnungsgemee) and express their unity before they partake in communion. Their concurrence on the Ordnung implies complete satisfaction with it. The agreement brings peace among members, and peace with God. If there is not group unity, then the Lord’s Supper is not observed.\n\nObedience is a close associate to Ordnung, because it is a symbol informing the body of believers as to whether a member loves the church or does not. There is no middle ground.\n\nAn important part of Amish life is \"Gelassenheit\" (), yieldedness, letting be, or submission to the will of God (in modern German approximately: composure, tranquility, serenity). This concept derives from the Bible when Jesus said, \"not my will but thine be done,\" thereby making individuality, selfishness, and pride, abhorrent; see humility. \"He submits to Christ, loses his own will, and \"yields\" (Gelassenheit) himself in all areas.\" Serving others and submitting to God, therefore, permeates all aspects of Amish life. A person’s personality must be modest, reserved, calm, and quiet. The values which must be apparent in a believer’s actions are submission, obedience, humility and simplicity. Gelassenheit should be the overriding aspect for every person within the Amish community, and it must be viewable through actions and possessions. Lamentations 3:26 \"quietly wait,\" \"in the Froschauer [German] Bible reads 'in Gelassenheit' (instead of quietly) – one probable Biblical reference that helped to establish this important 'Anabaptist term.'\"\n\nThe Ordnung is used to produce Gelassenheit, which is to be shown via a yielding of spirit to the traditions. The Amish glance back into the past and examine their traditions, treasuring them. The past is always the main resource for coping with the present. An Amish businessman may look forward to plan for new markets for his products; however, he never loses sight of the past and its precious legacy. To give yourself under the church means to yield, to submit. Modern culture's aggressive individualism sharply contrasts with the Amish gelassenheit. Through Gelassenheit, an Amish person yields to the Ordnung, the will of God, church, elders, parents, community, and traditions. The individual suppresses the will of 'self' in lieu of the Amish community.\n\nThere are several levels of piety in the Ordnung moral code.\n\n\nThere could be another category that is so clearly wrong, it is not included in the Ordnung. Murder would be a prime example.\n\nModern technology is used selectively by the Amish for fear that it may weaken the family structure. If any equipment does not maintain principles of Gelassenheit, it is banned. Anything which could promote sloth, luxury or vanity is strictly prohibited. Because 120-volt electricity connects to the outside world, it violates the Amish idea of separation from society. Owning an automobile could be a sign of status and it would promote vanity and competition between the church members; a direct violation of Gelassenheit's value of modesty. A telephone in the house would be a temptation to stay at home speaking to a friend rather than walking or taking a buggy ride to visit a neighbor (though a 'community' telephone is often maintained at a suitable distance from the home to permit contact during emergencies).\n\nAlthough Amish home and social life has remained mostly unaltered, a new technology can be adopted once it has passed a rigorous examination. The Ordnung is used to examine any new proposed use of technology. A proposal may be accepted for business reasons, but never for personal wishes, for entertainment, or for self-indulgences. A proposal will likely be rejected if it could have negative social implications. A telephone in the home is prohibited among the Old Order Amish because it interferes with face-to-face visits with neighbors. However, a few of the more liberal districts have allowed the telephone. Any technology that is seen to be corrupting spiritual or family life is rejected out of hand. Television would never be considered because it brings unbiblical values into the home.\n\nAmish dairy farms have discarded the metal milk bucket and three-legged stool in favor of an automated milking system. The Food and Drug Administration and the United States Department of Agriculture demand that certain guidelines be followed before milk can be marketed. Thus, power equipment and refrigerated bulk tanks are a necessity and permitted. However, the electricity needed to run a modern dairy must be produced, typically using gas or diesel generators. This may be more expensive than grid electricity, but lacks the degree of intrusion on Amish values and households that would result if fixed-line external power were used.\n\nIn farming, horses are used to pull wagons, buggies, and agricultural equipment. Gasoline engines may be allowed to run the machinery but horses are required for locomotion. The Old Order Amish are permitted to use modern transportation as long as they don't own or operate the equipment.\n\nAll of these guidelines are set out in the Ordnung, creating a balance between tradition and change.\n\nA district’s Ordnung is meant to convey the community's rigid traditions, so whenever members begin exploring new things which raise concerns, the local church must decide if such activities should be allowed. Twice a year each Amish district holds a council meeting led by the bishop. After listening to a discussion on the issue in question, the adult church members, men and women (all are expected to attend unless they are ill), vote. To ensure that the idea is carefully considered, voting is designed to make any change difficult, because once a rule has been adopted it is difficult to have it rescinded. If two or more people reject the change, the Ordnung remains unaltered. The Amish allow for change, but their emphasis centers on tradition.\n\nWhen considering a modification of the Ordnung, the members must also consider the implication to the districts around them. If neighboring districts believe a particular change is too radical, the offended district could break off communications and refuse to recognize them as fellow Amish. This threat is of concern, not only for community reasons, but because of family ties. For example, an Amish woman might decide that voting for a change is not worth the risk that she may never again talk to her daughter who married a young man from another district. Because of the threat of being shunned, change to the Ordnung is usually incremental and done in concert with other districts.\n\nNo Ordnung of any Anabaptist subgroup remained totally unchanged. Many Old Order Amish, Old Order Mennonites, Old Colony Mennonites and German Baptist groups have changed their Ordnung during the last 150 years so much, that they shifted away from the Old Order type of Community. For example, even the most traditional Old Order Amish groups like the Swartzentruber Amish and the Nebraska Amish allow their members to ride in cars under certain circumstances, primarily in cases of emergency.\n\nThe Amish have few written explanations \"why\" certain things are regulated by the Ordnung. Non-Amish are not allowed to attend their council meetings, and most Amish are hesitant to discuss the details with outsiders, therefore the precise reasons are difficult to explain. They formulate their rules with two interconnected goals in mind. First, is it compatible with their values? If a particular decision might disrupt their religion, tradition, community, or families, they are likely to prohibit it. The second purpose is to create a fence between themselves and Englishers. Most Americans see the Amish as different because they drive buggies, use horse drawn farm implements, dress plainly, etc. These differences are not accidental. When asked today why they have rejected a specific thing, many members of the church will simply reply: “Because it’s not Amish.”\n\nBecause each Amish district is a separate church, Ordnung rules will differ from locale to locale. There are diverse groups among the Amish, thereby creating distinctions within their Ordnung. The following is a general list and not exhaustive.\n\n\n\n\"Amish practices evolve over time. As modernization takes place, the Amish negotiate to what degree they will accept and utilize technology and other practices of the outside world. This cultural compromise has allowed the Amish to remain a distinct group, yet survive economically.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892875", "title": "California State Route 189", "text": "California State Route 189\n\nState Route 189 (SR 189) is a state highway in the U.S. state of California that runs through the San Bernardino Mountains in San Bernardino County. The route travels from State Route 18 near Crestline to State Route 173 in Lake Arrowhead, serving Twin Peaks and Blue Jay along its way.\n\nSR 189 begins at Lake Gregory Drive approximately twenty feet north of State Route 18, between the community of Arrowhead Highlands to the west and the community of Rimforest to the east. It wends its way northeastward to the community of Twin Peaks. It continues roughly eastward through Twin Peaks to the community of Agua Fria (Spanish, \"cold water\"), where it forms a tee with the northern terminus of Daley Canyon Road. It turns northeast and continues from there through the downtown section of the community of Blue Jay. It ends at State Route 173 in the Village area of the community of Lake Arrowhead.\n\nSR 189 is not part of the National Highway System, a network of highways that are considered essential to the country's economy, defense, and mobility by the Federal Highway Administration.\n\nIn 1933, a road from Strawberry Peak to the road between Cajon Pass and Lake Arrowhead was added to the state highway system. It was given the number of Route 189 in 1935. The route was unchanged by the 1964 state highway renumbering.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892883", "title": "Media in Boston", "text": "Media in Boston\n\nThis is a list of television and radio stations along with a list of media outlets in and around Boston, Massachusetts, including the Greater Boston area. As the television media market titled as \"Boston-(Manchester)\" it stretches as far north as Manchester, New Hampshire, and ranks as the ninth-largest media markets, and one of top-ten-largest radio media market in the United States according to Nielsen Media Research.\n\nThe Boston television market includes all but the 4 westernmost counties and Bristol County in Massachusetts and the 6 southern counties in New Hampshire, plus Windham County, Vermont. \nLocal cable channels<br>\nComcast is the main cable television provider, it also competes against RCN in select parts of the city.\n\n\nThe Boston radio market is the tenth largest in the country, encompassing over 4 million people in Essex, Middlesex, Norfolk, Plymouth and Suffolk counties.\n\n\n\n\n\nInner suburbs:\n\nOuter suburbs:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892885", "title": "18 Wheels of Steel", "text": "18 Wheels of Steel\n\n18 Wheels of Steel is a series of trucking simulators developed by SCS Software and published by ValuSoft from 2002 to 2011, as a spin-off of \"Hard Truck\", with the first game becoming the third \"Hard Truck\" game released.\n\nThe first installment in the series, released in 2002.\n\nThis installment is very similar to \"Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel\" except that the graphics were updated, more trucks and cargo were added, and a new map was created that enables users to travel across the entire continental U.S., through 30 cities. In this version, players can choose from 30 trucks and 40+ trailers. Time is made up of a total of 24 minutes in a day in the clock. This game focuses on the delivery of cargo. Players will also battle 3 AI drivers. Unlike in Hard Truck: 18 Wheels of Steel, the sleep timer was removed from the simulation. There is an improved traffic model as well as airplanes, helicopters, and trains with authentic sounds.\n\nIn this installment, released in 2004, the user can travel across the entire continental US, and also through northern Mexico and southern Canada, through 30 cities. The sleep timer was brought back in this version. It has an improved traffic model. \"18 Wheels of Steel: Pedal to the Metal\" requires OpenGL. It also has the fastest map to date besides \"Haulin\"' and is the first trucking game to feature more than one country.\n\nIn this updated installment, the player can travel through the United States, as well as southern Canada, though it differs from \"18 Wheels of Steel: Pedal to the Metal\" in that Mexican cities are not present. The player can travel through 30+ cities and choose from 35+ rigs, 45+ cargoes and 47+ trailers. The player has to use the mouse to look outside of the cab at the mirrors. The graphics are also much improved in this version, and users can see drivers in other vehicles and when the trucks are \"lugged\" under 1500 RPM, they emit black exhaust much like older non-computerized trucks do. However, other graphical features such as dynamic dashboard gauges were replaced with simple inanimate textures, although this and minor bugs were fixed with a patch released by SCS Software in 2008. Players can also buy things to protect themselves.\n\nThis installment adds more cities and has more realistic graphics, but Mexico is gone from this installment, as in \"Convoy\". The ability to use custom soundtracks and save games during deliveries was added also. Users can choose from 32 rigs, 45+ cargoes and 47+ trailers in the game, including double trailers. The game does not require a very powerful computer to operate properly since it can run on most older PCs. The game's engine, Prism3d, may not respond on older graphic cards resulting in a game crash on the game's start-up. Countries include the United States and Canada.\n\nThis installment of the game is very similar to and has the same game play as Haulin' but with renamed companies, 2 new trucks, and 3 cities in Mexico added. The previous 9 cities [Chihuahua, Guaymas, Monterrey, etc.] from 18 Wheels of Steel: Pedal to the Metal have returned but the map for each was slightly updated.\n\n\"Extreme Trucker\" lets the player deliver cargoes in any of the three main areas of the game: Yungas Road (also known as Road of Death), Tuktoyaktuk Winter Road, and the Australian Outback. This game is quite different from the previous installments as the whole concept was changed. The player can no longer drive around in free roam unless they decide to go around the map during a delivery, but they can only pick a job offer from the selection menu if users have met its requirements of having multiple new trucks and accomplished deliveries. The trucks and cars are modeled after real brands, although users can not own any vehicles through the game and are simply truck drivers seeking various jobs. Still, today's low to mediocre range computer will be able to run the game without getting low FPS. The game was mostly poorly received by critics. Game was criticised mostly for change of series concept. But it was well received by players and some reviews were positive towards the game and praised the game for its graphics and gameplay.\n\nReleased in 2011, \"Extreme Trucker 2\" is a sequel to \"18 Wheels of Steel: Extreme Trucker\". The game has two additional locations: Montana and Bangladesh, and a few new types of cargo.\n"}
{"id": "1892887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892887", "title": "Chickamauga campaign", "text": "Chickamauga campaign\n\nThe Chickamauga campaign of the American Civil War was a series of battles fought in northwestern Georgia from August 21 to September 20, 1863, between the Union Army of the Cumberland and Confederate Army of Tennessee. The campaign started successfully for Union commander William S. Rosecrans, with the Union army occupying the vital city of Chattanooga and forcing the Confederates to retreat into northern Georgia. But a Confederate attack at the Battle of Chickamauga forced Rosecrans to retreat back into Chattanooga and allowed the Confederates to lay siege to the Union forces.\nIn his successful Tullahoma campaign in the summer of 1863, William S. Rosecrans moved southeast from Murfreesboro, Tennessee, outmaneuvering Braxton Bragg and forcing him to abandon Middle Tennessee and withdraw to the city of Chattanooga, suffering only 569 Union casualties along the way. Union general-in-chief Maj. Gen. Henry W. Halleck and President Abraham Lincoln were insistent that Rosecrans move quickly to take Chattanooga. Seizing the city would open the door for the Union to advance toward Atlanta and the heartland of the South. Chattanooga was a vital rail hub (with lines going north toward Nashville and Knoxville and south toward Atlanta), and an important manufacturing center for the production of iron and coke, located on the navigable Tennessee River. Situated between Lookout Mountain, Missionary Ridge, Raccoon Mountain, and Stringer's Ridge, Chattanooga occupied an important, defensible position.\n\nAlthough Braxton Bragg's Army of Tennessee contained about 52,000 men at the end of July, the Confederate government merged the Department of East Tennessee, under Maj. Gen. Simon B. Buckner, into Bragg's Department of Tennessee, which added 17,800 men to Bragg's army, but also extended his command responsibilities northward to the Knoxville area. This brought a third subordinate into Bragg's command who had little or no respect for the commanding general. Lt. Gen. Leonidas Polk and Maj. Gen. William J. Hardee had already made their animosity well known. Buckner's attitude was colored by Bragg's unsuccessful invasion of Buckner's native Kentucky in 1862, as well as by the loss of his command through the merger. A positive aspect for Bragg was Hardee's request to be transferred to Mississippi in July, but he was replaced by Lt. Gen. D.H. Hill, a general who did not get along with Robert E. Lee in Virginia. The Confederate War Department asked Bragg in early August if he could assume the offensive against Rosecrans if he were given reinforcements from Mississippi. He demurred, concerned about daunting geographical obstacles and logistical challenges, preferring to wait for Rosecrans to solve those same problems and attack him. He was also concerned about a sizable Union force under Maj. Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside that was threatening Knoxville. Bragg withdrew his forces from advanced positions around Bridgeport, which left Rosecrans free to maneuver on the northern side of the Tennessee River. He concentrated his two infantry corps around Chattanooga and relied upon cavalry to cover his flanks, extending from northern Alabama to near Knoxville.\n\n (August 21, 1863)\n\nRosecrans ordered a brigade to shell Chattanooga from the western side of the Tennessee River and skirmish with the main Confederate force in the city to divert attention away from the flanking column sent southwest of the city. Other Union units were deployed along the river to the east. The diversion was successful, with Bragg concentrating his army east of Chattanooga. After concluding that his position was untenable, Bragg abandoned the city on September 6 and retreated into northern Georgia.\n\n (September 10–11, 1863)\nBragg intended to attack General James S. Negley's isolated division of the Union XIV Corps, commanded by George H. Thomas, before Rosecrans could concentrate the rest of his army at that location. He ordered the divisions of Thomas Hindman and Patrick Cleburne to concentrate together and launch a joint attack under Hindman's command. Due to delays in conveying orders, Cleburne's division failed to arrive in time on the 10th, while Thomas reinforced the isolated division with the rest of his corps. After the two divisions were united the next day, they failed to launch a coordinated attack on Thomas' positions and were repulsed.\n\n (September 19–20, 1863)\n\nBelieving that Thomas L. Crittenden's XXI Corps was isolated from the rest of the Union army, Bragg ordered his army to concentrate near Lee's and Gordon's Mills; however, Rosecrans had been concentrating his army along Chickamauga Creek. Detachments from Thomas' Corps and Confederate cavalry collided on September 19, with both commanders feeding reinforcements into the engagement. The day ended without a clear victory by either side. The next day, Bragg ordered attacks in an echelon formation starting with the left flank at dawn but Polk, commanding the Confederate left wing, failed to properly supervise his command. The attacks began four hours late and failed to dislodge the Union army from its positions. Shortly after 11 a.m., an attack by Longstreet's corps struck a gap in the Union line, routing most of the Union army. Thomas formed his corps on Snodgrass Hill and held off further Confederate attacks for the remainder of the afternoon before retreating back to Chattanooga near sundown.\n\nRosecrans retreated into Chattanooga after the battle of Chickamauga. Reinforcements were sent from the Army of the Tennessee and the Army of the Potomac. Both Crittenden and Alexander McCook, commander of the XX Corps, were replaced on September 28 for alleged misconduct at Chickamauga, although they were both cleared of the charge. U.S. Grant, recently made commander of the Military Division of the Mississippi and placed in command of the Union forces near Chattanooga, decided to replace Rosecrans with Thomas on October 19.\n\nAt the time of Chickamauga, the Army of Tennessee was suffering from a shortage of food and of wagons to transport supplies; it also lacked pontoon bridges to cross the Tennessee River. Bragg consequently decided to lay siege to the Union army. The Confederates occupied Missionary Ridge and spread a picket line along the south bank of the river towards Alabama. Fire from Confederate sharpshooters prevented supply wagons from reaching Chattanooga.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892888", "title": "Stockholm International Youth Science Seminar", "text": "Stockholm International Youth Science Seminar\n\nStockholm International Youth Science Seminar (SIYSS) is an annual weeklong event for young international scientists, arranged in connection with the Nobel festivities by the SIYSS Committee of the Swedish Federation of Young Scientists.\n\nThe history of SIYSS dates back to 1976 when the first seminar was organized by the Swedish Federation of Young Scientists, with inspiration from Society for Science & the Public in USA. Turning out a great success, the SIYSS program has continued, combining the encounter with Swedish science and the Nobel Prize Awarding Ceremonies with an intense social program ever since then.\n\nThe program aims to promote international understanding and friendship, bringing together young people from all over the world with similar interests. The participants are selected in different ways; some are winners of national science fairs, others represent organizations for young scientists or are selected by merit at their home universities. Whatever their background, they all have two things in common: a great interest in natural sciences and a curiosity for other cultures and people.\n\nScientists from the following countries have participated in the SIYSS as of 2009:\n\n\nAlso, every year winners of the EU Contest and the Intel ISEF participate in the event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892890", "title": "Kentucky Supreme Court", "text": "Kentucky Supreme Court\n\nThe Kentucky Supreme Court was created by a 1975 constitutional amendment and is the state supreme court of the U.S. state of Kentucky. Prior to that the Kentucky Court of Appeals was the only appellate court in Kentucky. The Kentucky Court of Appeals is now Kentucky's intermediate appellate court.\n\nCriminal appeals involving a sentence of death, life imprisonment, or imprisonment of twenty years or more are heard directly by the Kentucky Supreme Court, bypassing the Kentucky Court of Appeals. All other cases are heard on a discretionary basis on appeal from the Kentucky Court of Appeals.\n\nThe Kentucky Supreme Court promulgates the Rules of Court and Rules of Evidence. Through two of its subagencies, the Kentucky Office of Bar Admissions (KYOBA) and Kentucky Bar Association (KBA), it is the final arbiter for bar admissions (KYOBA) and discipline (KBA).\n\nIn the event that two or more justices of the Kentucky Supreme Court recuse themselves from a case, the Governor of Kentucky appoints Special Justices to sit for that particular case.\n\nThe court meets in a courtroom located on the second floor of the Kentucky State Capitol in Frankfort. The second floor of the capitol building is also home to offices for the justices and Supreme Court personnel.\n\nThe Administrative Office of the Courts (AOC), under the aegis of the Kentucky Supreme Court, serves as the administrative support agency for Kentucky courts and Circuit Court Clerks. The role of the AOC is similar to that of the Legislative Research Commission (LRC) for the Kentucky General Assembly.\n\nIn its short history, the Kentucky Supreme Court has not produced much jurisprudence of note. A study published in 2007 by the Supreme Court of California found that of all state supreme courts in the United States, the decisions of the Kentucky Supreme Court were the least followed by other states' appellate courts.\n\nNotable decisions of the Kentucky Supreme Court include \"Kentucky v. Wasson\", 842 S.W.2d 487 (Ky. 1992), in which the court invalidated the criminalization of same-sex sodomy as a state equal protection violation. This Kentucky decision, based on the Kentucky Constitution, was made at a time when the applicable federal equal protection precedent was \"Bowers v. Hardwick\", 478 U.S. 186 (1986), which held that federal constitutional protection of the right of privacy was not implicated in laws penalizing homosexual sodomy. In 2003, the United States Supreme Court reversed itself and overturned \"Bowers\", issuing a decision in \"Lawrence v. Texas\", 539 U.S. 558 (2003) that mirrored Kentucky's \"Wasson\" ruling. While some thought the Kentucky Supreme Court \"Wasson\" opinion to have been progressive, others criticized the opinion for having no basis in the 1890 Kentucky Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892892", "title": "County of Castell", "text": "County of Castell\n\nCastell was a county of northern Bavaria, Germany, ruling a string of territories in the historical region of Franconia, both east and west of Würzburg. Little is known about the noble Counts of Castell, although they were the counts of Kreis Gerolzhofen, Regierungsbezirk, and Unterfranken of Bavaria. They were a member of the \"Fränkische Grafenkolleg\" (\"Franconian Counts College\").\n\nThe two main branches of the House of Castell were Protestant Castell-Remlingen (later split into Castell-Castell) and Protestant and Catholic Castell-Rüdenhausen.\n\nCastell was composed of three territories (\"Flecken\") and 28 villages, with about 10,000 inhabitants at the time of mediatisation. The County of Castell joined Bavaria in 1806.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892894", "title": "The New Avengers (comics)", "text": "The New Avengers (comics)\n\nThe New Avengers is a fictional team of superheroes appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The title has been used for four American comic book series. The first two were written by Brian Michael Bendis and depicted a version of Marvel's premiere superhero team, the Avengers. The third was written by Jonathan Hickman and depicted a group of characters called the Illuminati (formerly introduced in \"New Avengers\" Vol. 1 #7 [July 2005]). The fourth is written by Al Ewing and depicts the former scientific terrorist group A.I.M., reformed as \"Avengers Idea Mechanics\", whose field team has appropriated the name \"New Avengers\" for itself.\n\n\"The New Avengers\" is a spin-off of the long-running Marvel Comics series \"The Avengers\". The first issue, written by Brian Michael Bendis and penciled by David Finch, was dated January 2005 but appeared in November 2004. Finch penciled the first six issues and issues #11-13. Succeeding pencilers with multiple-issue runs include Steve McNiven, Leinil Francis Yu, Billy Tan, and Stuart Immonen. The roster at first comprises Luke Cage, Captain America, Iron Man, Spider-Man and \"Spider-Woman\" (Veranke). Later stretches included the mutant X-Man Wolverine, the unstable and godlike Sentry, and the deaf ninja Echo, in the guise of Ronin.\n\nThe team itself was not named the \"New Avengers\" within the series. A splinter group of Avengers that chose not to comply with federal superhuman registration, the team considers itself the authentic Avengers. A concurrent government-sanctioned team gathered in the sister series \"The Mighty Avengers\". This series launched in early 2007 and was itself supplanted by a different government-sanctioned team in the series \"Dark Avengers\", which was launched in late 2008. At this time the team welcomed Clint Barton (recently returned from the dead) as Ronin, as well as Doctor Strange and Iron Fist.\n\nBy the end of the first volume, the \"New Avengers\" team consisted of Ronin, Captain America (Bucky Barnes), Ms. Marvel, Mockingbird, Spider-Man, Spider-Woman (Drew), Wolverine, and team leader Luke Cage. Writer Brian Michael Bendis said in an interview that these characters are the authentic Avengers because Captain America said they were. This statement is repeated when the team, believing Captain America (Rogers) is alive, attempts to rescue him. Spider-Man claims that if they get Captain America back, they can call themselves Avengers again. Luke Cage contends that they are Avengers already. The series ended with \"The New Avengers\" #64 (April 2010), at the conclusion of the \"Siege\" storyline. A one-shot titled \"The New Avengers: Finale\" was also released.\n\nIn March 2010, Marvel announced the series would be relaunched in June as part of the company's rebranding initiative, \"Heroic Age\" . In the first issue of the series, the new team consisted of Luke Cage, Victoria Hand, Iron Fist, Jessica Jones, Mockingbird, Ms. Marvel, Spider-Man, The Thing, and Wolverine. Wolverine and Spider-Man operated on the main Avengers team as well as the New Avengers, and Doctor Strange accepted an offer to join the team after their first mission while searching for the new Sorcerer Supreme after the death of Doctor Voodoo. Daredevil joined the team in issue #16 after accepting an offer from Luke Cage and Jessica Jones. Jessica left the team for personal reasons and was later joined by Luke Cage, thus ending that iteration of the team.\n\n\"New Avengers\" was renumbered as a new volume in January 2013, written by Jonathan Hickman and originally drawn by Steve Epting. The new volume shifted its focus to the powerful group known as the Illuminati, which includes Black Bolt, Captain America, Doctor Strange, Iron Man, Mister Fantastic, and Namor, who reassembled to confront the threat of incursions. Black Panther and Reed Richards discovered that universal decay centered on Earth was causing universes to collide with one another, with Earth at the focal point. In issue #3, Black Panther, who had previously opposed the existence of the Illuminati, joined the group, and the Beast was brought in to fill the spot vacated by the death of Professor X. In the same issue, Captain America leaves. In issue #12, after having helped the Illuminati to defeat Thanos's army, Black Bolt's brother Maximus joined the team. Bruce Banner joined the team in Avengers Vol. 5 #28 after discovering the universal decay on his own.\n\nVolume 4 of \"New Avengers\" launched in October 2015 as a part of the All-New, All-Different Marvel relaunch, written by Al Ewing with art by Gerardo Sandoval. The comic features a different team from the past three volumes: it focuses on A.I.M. (Advanced Idea Mechanics), a former super-villain group which has been rebranded as the Avengers Idea Mechanics, and their field team which has taken the name of the New Avengers. Sunspot is the new head of A.I.M., with Songbird as the field leader; other members include Wiccan, Hulkling, Squirrel Girl, Pod, Power Man, White Tiger, and Hawkeye as an open informant for S.H.I.E.L.D. Later, there is a schism in the team: Wiccan, Hulkling and Squirrel Girl are expelled from A.I.M. and informed by Sunspot that the three of them are now what remains of the New Avengers; during the same story, Cannonball was revealed to be working for A.I.M. as well. Hawkeye, who had been fired from S.H.I.E.L.D., later rejoins the trio of remaining New Avengers to form a lineup jokingly called \"Wiccan's Kooky Quartet\". During the events of Civil War II, the New Avengers assist A.I.M. on one last mission, which Hawkeye sits out for reasons of plausible deniability. After Sunspot's funeral, Advanced Idea Mechanics is declared officially dead so the team breaks up, but later reform as U.S.Avengers.\n\nFollowing a reign of destruction by an insane Scarlet Witch, the Avengers disband. Six months later, with the Fantastic Four and the X-Men unable to act, the supervillain Electro shuts down power at the Raft, a \"maximum-maximum security\" prison for super-powered criminals, allowing for a mass breakout. \"Jessica Drew (Spider-Woman)\", an agent for the international law-enforcement agency S.H.I.E.L.D., is at the Raft with attorney Matt Murdock (Daredevil) and \"hero for hire\" Luke Cage. They are joined by Captain America, Iron Man, and Spider-Man. They are also assisted by a mentally unbalanced Sentry, who is imprisoned at the Raft. The riot is quelled, although 42 inmates escape. Captain America declares fate has brought this group together, just as it had the original Avengers. Most of the heroes agree to join the team. Daredevil refuses the offer and Sentry is returned to his cell.\n\nThe team's first mission is to capture the remaining super-powered criminals who escaped during the riot. The unexpected emergence of an unrelated team of youthful heroes, the Young Avengers, is also a matter of concern. There is also a growing sense of unease with S.H.I.E.L.D. after the disappearance of its leader, Nick Fury. The New Avengers travel to the Savage Land to capture the reptilian mutant Sauron, encountering resistance from the Savage Land Mutates (led by Brainchild) and a rogue squadron of S.H.I.E.L.D. agents led by Yelena Belova. During this conflict, Canadian mutant Wolverine joins the team (while maintaining concurrent membership in the X-Men). The group also recruits the Sentry, a powerful hero who erased all memory of his career from the world after he was manipulated by the mutant Mastermind and The General.\n\nWith Xavier unable to repair the fractured psyche of the Scarlet Witch, the New Avengers and Cyclops' team of X-Men consider the alternatives. Fearful that the heroes are preparing to kill his sister, former Avenger Quicksilver convinces her to use her reality-altering powers to transform the planet and its history. Instantaneously, Magneto rules the planet under the banner of the \"House of M\", with mutants in the majority and non-powered humans as an oppressed minority. Reality is eventually restored, but the Scarlet Witch removes the superhuman abilities from over 99% of the mutants on Earth. These lost powers manifest as the Collective, the assembled energy of the depowered mutants. This energy is controlled by the intelligence known as Xorn (who once posed as Magneto) and uses the energy-wielder Michael Pointer as a host. The Avengers manage to separate the two after the Collective/Xorn attempts to re-power Magneto.\n\nAfter the reckless actions of the New Warriors result in the deaths of over 600 civilians in Stamford, Connecticut, Congress passes the Superhuman Registration Act, which requires all superhumans to register with the federal government. Many superheroes comply with this law, but others oppose the law on the grounds that it violates civil liberties. This ideological split leads to a \"Civil War\" within the New Avengers and the superhuman community at large, with Iron Man leading those who comply with the law, and Captain America leading those who oppose it. By the time that open hostilities between the two factions come to a close, Spider-Man's closely guarded secret identity is exposed to the world, and Bill Foster (one of Henry Pym's successors as Giant-Man) is killed. Shortly thereafter, Captain America is seemingly assassinated.\n\nIn the aftermath of the superhero civil war, the New Avengers become an unofficial group of unregistered heroes. The team moves to Doctor Strange's Sanctum Sanctorum in Greenwich Village, recruiting the resurrected Clint Barton (now using the name and costume of Ronin). They eventually relocate to an empty apartment building owned by Danny Rand's (Iron Fist) Rand Corporation, but leased in the name of Samuel Sterns (the Leader, an adversary of the Hulk).\n\nFollowing this, the New Avengers play a major role in repelling the \"Secret Invasion\" of Earth by the Skrulls, a shapeshifting alien race which has sought to conquer the planet for years. In one confrontation, the team rescues several heroes who had been kidnapped and replaced by Skrull impostors at various unspecified times in the past. This includes the presumed-dead Mockingbird, wife of Clint Barton (Ronin), with whom she reunites. Additionally, it is revealed that Spider-Woman was replaced by the Skrull queen Veranke, prior to the prison break at The Raft that led to the formation of the New Avengers. Thus, Jessica Drew had never been a member of the team.\n\nUpon the Skrulls' defeat, S.H.I.E.L.D. is dismantled and replaced by H.A.M.M.E.R., a new intelligence agency. Norman Osborn (who has been Spider-Man's archenemy as the Green Goblin) is placed in control of H.A.M.M.E.R. and the Thunderbolts, while assembling a team of Avenger imposters composed of supervillains. Meanwhile, the revamped New Avengers roster consists of Captain America (Bucky Barnes), Luke Cage, Ronin, Mockingbird, Ms. Marvel, Spider-Man, the real Spider-Woman and Wolverine. Captain America offers these \"new Avengers\" his home as a base of operations. Iron Fist announces he must leave the group to attend to personal business, but will remain on call. The team elects Ronin as leader (with Ms. Marvel as second-in-command), and persuades Spider-Man to once again reveal his secret identity to his fellow members.\n\nWith the Registration Act having been revoked in the aftermath of the \"Siege\" of Asgard led by Osborn (who is incarcerated for his actions), Steve Rogers (the original Captain America, returned from his alleged death) reassembles the Avengers. Steve convinces a reluctant Luke Cage to be part of the new lineup after Tony Stark sells the reconstructed Avengers Mansion to Cage for a dollar, and Steve gives Cage carte blanche to maintain the New Avengers team, leading it as he sees fit. Given the freedom to recruit almost anyone he wants for the New Avengers team (except Iron Man or Thor), Cage selects Clint Barton (who has resumed the Hawkeye identity), Iron Fist, Jewel (Cage's wife Jessica Jones), Ms. Marvel, Mockingbird, Spider-Man, the Thing (who maintains concurrent membership in the Fantastic Four) and Wolverine. Rogers also sends him Victoria Hand on the grounds that she can provide the team with a unique insight from which Rogers feels they will benefit. Although Hawkeye leaves the team when a crisis comes up with the main Avengers team (claiming that he only joined them to spend time with his wife), the team later enlists a now-weakened Doctor Strange after he assists them in tackling a dimensional crisis. Squirrel Girl and Wong are hired as a super-powered babysitter for Cage's and Jewel's baby and mansion housekeeper respectively, although they do not serve directly on the main lineup of the New Avengers. Spider-Man appears to want to leave the team prior to the \"Fear Itself\" event due to his distrust of Victoria Hand and his new responsibilities in the Future Foundation, but subsequent conversations with Wolverine and Luke Cage convince him to remain an active member. After \"Fear Itself\", the team lineup shifts, initially with the addition of Daredevil to the team and later with Jessica Jones leaving the team out of fear for her baby Danielle's safety.\n\nLuke Cage leaves the team after the events of \"Avengers vs. X-Men\" to ensure the security of his wife and baby.\n\nThe remaining New Avengers band together with Doctor Strange when the Ghost of Daniel Drumm returns. He possesses each of the New Avengers and kills various evil sorcerers. Convinced that Daniel set his brother (Brother Voodoo) up to fail in his new role, Doctor Strange defeats him by using dark magic (recognizing that Drumm had only killed dark magic specialists while trying to frame Strange). As a result, Doctor Strange subsequently regains his position of Sorcerer Supreme.\n\nUnder the \"Marvel NOW!\" label, a third volume of \"New Avengers\" was launched, written by Jonathan Hickman. With Hickman in charge of the entire Avengers line, \"New Avengers\" carried a parallel storyline to the main \"Avengers\" series. Rather than featuring a traditional team of Avengers, the book focused on the Illuminati. Black Panther joins Black Bolt, Captain America, Doctor Strange, Iron Man, Mister Fantastic, and Namor when faced with a universal threat. Beast joins the team as a replacement for the deceased Professor X.\n\nBlack Panther discovers a second Earth hanging above Wakanda and witnesses the Black Swan destroy the alternate Earth. Black Panther captures and imprisons the Black Swan and reforms the Illuminati. Using the Black Swan's information, Reed Richards discovers the threat of Incursions, a multiversal chain reaction causing universes to collide with one another, with Earth of every universe at the focal point, resulting in the destruction of both universes unless one Earth is destroyed, allowing the other to pass through. As the Illuminati consider darker and darker avenues to save the universe, Captain America's steadfast morals are put at odds with the other members of the Illuminati. Captain America is voted out of the group with a spell of forgetfullness cast by Dr. Strange.\n\nFaced with the possibility of having to destroy a world, the scientists of the Illuminati set about building a number of weapons, including a number of antimatter injection bombs similar to the one used by the Black Swan, a Dyson Sphere designed to weaponize the sun, a Builder Worldkiller ship kept in Jupiter's orbit, and a rogue planet kept slightly out-of-phase with Earth. The Illuminati survived a number of incursions using these and other methods; at one near Liberty Island, Galactus ate the alternate Earth, and they used an antimatter bomb to destroy a dead Earth over Latveria. During the Infinity event, alternate-universe Builders destroyed an Earth for the Illuminati. The event ended with the defeat of Thanos's forces and the capture of Thanos and his generals Proxima Midnight and Corvus Glaive, all three of whom were imprisoned in amber by Thanos's son Thane. They joined the Black Swan and Terrax the Enlightened as Illuminati prisoners.\n\nThe members of the Illuminati became increasingly cut off from the outside community as a result of their actions. Namor's kingdom was destroyed by Proxima Midnight during Thanos's invasion, and Black Panther was cast out of Wakanda for his alliance with Namor, with whom his sister Shuri was at war. Black Bolt and his brother Maximus faked the Inhuman king's death following the destruction of the Terrigen Bomb to allow the Inhumans to rebuild separately from the Illuminati's machinations. Doctor Strange, feeling increasingly cut off from his scientist-dominated colleagues, decided to empower himself to perhaps be able to solve the incursions, and so used the Blood Bible to travel to the Sinner's Market, where he sold his soul in exchange for godlike power. Upon discovering multiversal decay on his own after meeting an alternate version of himself, Bruce Banner confronted Tony Stark about what he'd been doing, and Stark brought him in as a member of the Illuminati.\n\nFaced with a number of multiversal groups also trying to survive the incursion crisis - the faceless sorcerers the Black Priests, the adaptoid robots the Mapmakers, and the mysterious Ivory Kings - the Illuminati built a device to allow them to view other Earths' pasts so they could see how incursions there were handled. They learned about Mapmakers and Black Priests, but also discovered that the Black Swan had teamed up with alternate Illuminati groups in the past, and had even killed alternate versions of Iron Man and Reed Richards when they were no longer useful. Just before the team could confront Black Swan about her deception, another incursion occurred, this time pitting the Illuminati against the Great Society, a team of heroes which, like the Illuminati, had thus far fought off incursions to save its world.\n\nFollowing an eight-month ellipsis during the \"Time Runs Out\" storyline, a new group calling themselves the New Avengers emerge. This team consists of former members of the Avengers who broke away from the main team after Captain America partnered with S.H.I.E.L.D. to hunt down the Illuminati.\n\nAs part of the \"All-New, All-Different Marvel\" event, Sunspot's branch of the Avengers become the latest incarnation of the New Avengers. Their first opponent ended up being the terrorist organization W.H.I.S.P.E.R. (short for World Headquarters for International Scientific/Philosophical Experimentation and Research) that was founded by Mister Fantastic's Earth-1610 counterpart Maker and consisting of the former members of A.I.M. that were chased off by Sunspot. The New Avengers fought W.H.I.S.P.E.R. to destroy their Life-Minus experiment which involved capturing the souls of the dead in special crystals as part of a plan to create a new lifeform. The crystals were later destroyed by Songbird's sonic scream. The Life-Minus experiment also conjured up Moridun, a dark entity from the Fifth Cosmos (the Marvel Universe having recently been reborn in its eighth iteration in the events of Secret Wars).\n\nThe New Avengers encountered Moridun when he took over the body of M'Ryn the Magus — leader of the Knights of the Infinite, a magical order of Kree-Skrull hybrids who revealed Hulkling to be their prophesied future king. When Moridun attacked them and attempted to devour their souls, repeating the phrase \"Life is horror\", the New Avengers apparently defeated him — but Moridun planted a seed of his consciousness inside Billy Kaplan's mind and began to slowly infect him. Billy changed his codename from Wiccan to Demiurge, and began to act increasingly amoral. They were alerted to Moridun's survival when the Avengers of the year 20XX came back to the present day through A.I.M.'s new time machine, warning that Moridun would destroy Demiurge's soul completely and use his near-godlike power to almost completely destroy the world. Finding Billy already infected, the future Avengers tried to kill him; instead, with Hulkling's help, Billy was able to recognise Moridun's presence in his own mind and successfully defeat him on the mental plane, expelling Moridun from his body and mind.\n\nThe Maker engineered the prison break of Angela Del Toro, the former White Tiger, and presented her with the Tiger Amulet from the Ultimate Universe. She fought with Ava Ayala in Rome, causing the Tiger Gods from the two amulets to merge into one, leaving Del Toro with the powers of the White Tiger and Ava powerless.\n\nIn the crossover, A.I.M. received a distress call from Rick Jones when he is taken into S.H.I.E.L.D. custody. Hawkeye decided to break with S.H.I.E.L.D. for good and supported a rescue mission. Hulkling, Wiccan and Squirrel Girl, the only three dissenters, were expelled from A.I.M. and teleported to the desert – Sunspot also conferred the name of \"New Avengers\" on them. The remaining A.I.M. field team successfully rescued Rick from the Agents of S.H.I.E.L.D.'s battlecarrier. In response, the U.S. military launched an attack on Avengers Island with the American Kaiju (a Marine corporal transmogrified into a giant lizard monster) – as A.I.M. evacuated the island, they battled the monster with the mentally-controlled giant robot Avenger Five. Meanwhile, S.H.I.E.L.D. also launched a counterattack as led by John Garrett, forcing Songbird to reveal that she had been a deep-cover S.H.I.E.L.D. mole. The American Kaiju was defeated by forcing it back into human form. Rick Jones got cold feet about throwing in with A.I.M. and fled, and as a result S.H.I.E.L.D. successfully detained Hawkeye. The remainder of A.I.M. successfully evacuated to Avenger Two, a secondary base in the Savage Land run by Sunspot's old friend Cannonball.\n\nHawkeye was fired from S.H.I.E.L.D. for his betrayal. He, Wiccan, Hulkling and Squirrel Girl decided to re-form the New Avengers with Wiccan as the new team leader after fighting the Plunderer together. Meanwhile, Songbird openly became a S.H.I.E.L.D. agent, but was in fact still loyal to Sunspot.\n\n\"The New Avengers\" has been collected in the several trade paperbacks. They were released as hardcover editions previously.\n\n\"The New Avengers\" has also been collected in the following hardcovers:\n'The New Avengers\" has also been collected in the following Marvel Omnibus:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892895", "title": "Władysław Hieronim Sanguszko", "text": "Władysław Hieronim Sanguszko\n\nPrince Władysław Hieronim Sanguszko (1803–1870) was a Polish nobleman, landowner, conservative politician.\n\nWładysław participated in the November Uprising in 1830–1831. He was owner of Gumniśki estate and ran there an Arabian horse stud farm. From 1861 to 1869 member of the National Sejm in Galicia and member of the Herrenhaus. An opposite of the January Uprising of 1863–1864. Since 1854 chairman of the \"Society of Friends of Arts\" in Kraków.\n\nHe was married to his maternal first cousin Princess Izabella Maria Lubomirska and had five children: \n\n\nHis older brother Prince Roman Sanguszko was compelled to walk the entire way to Siberia (about 3300 km) in chains for his part in the November Uprising by personal order of the Russian Czar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892897", "title": "List of Alfred Hitchcock Presents episodes", "text": "List of Alfred Hitchcock Presents episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes from the 1955–1962 television series \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" and the 1962–1965 \"The Alfred Hitchcock Hour\".\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</onlyinclude>\n\nBeginning with this season, the program was expanded to an hour and re-titled \"The Alfred Hitchcock Hour\".\n"}
{"id": "1892898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892898", "title": "Neuro-ophthalmology", "text": "Neuro-ophthalmology\n\nNeuro-ophthalmology is an academically-oriented subspecialty that merges the fields of neurology and ophthalmology, often dealing with complex systemic diseases that have manifestations in the visual system. Neuro-ophthalmologists initially complete a residency in either neurology, neurosurgery, or ophthalmology, then do a fellowship in the complementary field. Since diagnostic studies can be normal in patients with significant neuro-ophthalmic disease, a detailed medical history and physical exam is essential, and neuro-ophthalmologists often spend a significant amount of time with their patients.\n\nCommon pathology referred to a neuro-ophthalmologist includes afferent visual system disorders (e.g. optic neuritis, optic neuropathy, papilledema, brain tumors or strokes) and efferent visual system disorders (e.g. anisocoria, diplopia, ophthalmoplegia, ptosis, nystagmus, blepharospasm, seizures of the eye or eye muscles, and hemifacial spasm). The largest international society of neuro-ophthalmologists is the North American Neuro-Ophthalmological Society (NANOS), which organizes an annual meeting and publishes the Journal of Neuro-Ophthalmology. Neuro-ophthalmologists are often faculty at large university-based medical centers. Patients often have co-existing diseases in other fields (rheumatology, endocrinology, oncology, cardiology, etc.), thus the neuro-ophthalmologist is often a liaison between the ophthalmology department and other departments in the medical center.\n\nNeuro-ophthalmology focuses on diseases of the nervous system that affect vision, control of eye movements, or pupillary reflexes. Neuro-ophthalmologists often see patients with complex multi-system disease and “zebras” are not uncommon. Neuro-ophthalmologists are often active teachers in their academic institution, and the first four winners of the prestigious Straatsma American Academy of Ophthalmology teaching awards were neuro-ophthalmologists. Neuro-ophthalmology is mostly non-procedural, however, neuro-ophthalmologists may be trained to perform eye muscle surgery to treat adult strabismus, optic nerve fenestration for idiopathic intracranial hypertension, and botulinum injections for blepharospasm or hemifacial spasm.\n\nTwo neuro-ophthalmology fellows of Andrew G. Lee published reasons why they chose to pursue the discipline:\nAt the turn of the 20th Century, there was no textbook in the English language on neuro-ophthalmology. In 1906, Dr. William Campbell Posey, Professor of Ophthalmology in the Philadelphia Polyclinic and Dr. William G. Spiller, Professor of Neurology in the University of Pennsylvania, edited \"The Eye and Nervous System: Their Diagnostic Relations By Various Authors\" J.B. Lippincott & Co.. According to the Preface to this book, \"Although it is generally conceded that a knowledge of neurology is indispensable to the ophthalmologist and that an acquaintanceship with ophthalmology is of the greatest service to the neurologist, there is no book in the English language which covers the ground where the two specialties meet.\"\n\nFrank B. Walsh was a pioneer of neuro-ophthalmology, helping to popularize and develop the field. Walsh was born in Oxbow, Saskatchewan in 1895 and earned a degree from University of Manitoba in 1921. He joined the Wilmer Ophthalmological Institute at Johns Hopkins University and began organizing Saturday morning neuro-ophthalmology conferences. Walsh compiled the first neuro-ophthalmology textbook, which was published in 1947 and has been updated over the years by generations of his students.\n\nDoctors have been decreasing the time spent with a patient due to economic pressures, the use of nonphysicians, and increasing reliance on laboratory tests. Neuro-ophthalmology has been affected more so than other specialties due to the complexity of the patients and the time required to do a neuro-ophthalmic history and physical exam. Additionally, the current medical reimbursement system rewards quantity of service (performing assembly line procedures) rather than quality of service (making a correct diagnosis, patient education, and counseling), and seeing complex patients is not adequately recognized.\n\nImproved functional neuroimaging is paving the way for better understanding, assessment, and management of many neurologic and neuro-ophthalmologic conditions. As our understanding of neuroscience evolves, neuro-ophthalmologists are becoming increasingly better at treatment, rather than only diagnosis, and novel therapies are emerging to treat traditionally vision-devastating disease. For example, clinical trials began in February 2014 to use gene therapy to treat Leber hereditary optic neuropathy, which is one of the first uses of gene therapy in the central nervous system. Progress has also been made in understanding retinal ganglion cell regeneration and in re-establishing synaptic connections from the optic nerve to the brain, more than in other regions of the central nervous system. One of the goals of the National Institutes of Health is to use the visual system as a window to understand neural plasticity and regenerative medicine in the central nervous system, an area of neuroscience that has a promising future and is intimately intertwined with neuro-ophthalmology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892913", "title": "Warren Hegg", "text": "Warren Hegg\n\nWarren Kevin Hegg (born 23 February 1968 in Whitefield, Lancashire) is an English cricketer. He played County Cricket for Lancashire. Although primarily a wicket-keeper, Hegg was also a handy lower-order batsman, and made several first-class hundreds. He represented England in two Test matches, however his international career was hampered due to England's selectors choosing Alec Stewart to act as an all-rounder. Hegg represented Lancashire for 19 years, captaining them for three between 2002 and 2004. He retired from competitive cricket in 2005.\n\nHegg made his first-class debut for Lancashire in 1986, and remained with the county for his entire career. In 1989 he set a Lancashire record when he held 11 catches in a single match first-class match; this feat, achieved against Derbyshire, is the equal fifth most dismissals in a match by a wicket-keeper. One of Hegg's finest moments came on 12 June 1996 when playing for Lancashire against Yorkshire in the semi-final of the Benson & Hedges Cup. Chasing 251 to win, Lancashire were 97/5 when Hegg arrived at the crease. Further wickets tumbled around him but Hegg scored 81 from 62 balls to help steer his county to victory by 1 wicket from the very last ball of the match.\n\nHegg played two Test matches during the 1998–99 Ashes tour of Australia when Alec Stewart was moved up the order to play as a specialist batsman. Following Stewart's withdrawal from the winter tour of India in 2001, Hegg was recalled to the England squad for that tour and the one of which followed in New Zealand. Hegg never again played international cricket again, and was second choice to the younger wicket-keeper, James Foster, on the tour.\n\nHegg was appointed captain of his county in 2002. Under his captaincy, Lancashire finished third and second in the County Championship in 2002 and 2003 respectively.\n\nThe 2004 season was an unsuccessful one for Lancashire, with the team being relegated to the second division of the County Championship for the first time in its history, despite having started as the bookmarkers' favourites to win the competition. The squad was severely depleted by injuries, at one point eight bowlers were unavailable, and Hegg himself suffered two hamstring injuries which meant he missed several matches, including the final match of the season which the team needed to win to stay in the first division. Following Lancashire's relegation at the end of 2004, Hegg stepped down as Lancashire captain. He was replaced by batsman Mark Chilton. Hegg said of his time as captain \"It has been a great honour but now the time is right to step down and concentrate on helping the team recapture its position in the first division\".\n\nOn 15 May 2005, Hegg announced that 2005 would be his last year of cricket. Two weeks before the end of the 2005 season, a delivery from fast bowler James Anderson ricocheted off James Middlebrook's stumps, dismissing him, and hit Hegg on the thumb. The freak accident forced Hegg's season to end prematurely, and he finished with a total of 951 first-class dismissals, of which 919 were for Lancashire, just six short of George Duckworth's Lancashire record of 925.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892921", "title": "Army Group D", "text": "Army Group D\n\nArmy Group D (\"Heeresgruppe D\") was a German Army Group which saw action during World War II.\n\nArmy Group D was formed on 26 October 1940 in France, its initial cadre coming from the disbanded Army Group C.\n\nOn 15 April 1941, the status of Army Group D was upgraded. From that date on, the commander of Army Group D was also to be considered Oberbefehlshaber West (or OB WEST – the Commander in Chief for the Western Theatre). As a result of this, Army Group D is sometimes incorrectly referred to as Army Group West.\n\nMay 1941\n\nMay 1944\n\nDecember 1944\n"}
{"id": "1892940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892940", "title": "George Mountbatten, 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven", "text": "George Mountbatten, 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven\n\nCaptain George Louis Victor Henry Serge Mountbatten, 2nd Marquess of Milford Haven, (6 December 1892 – 8 April 1938), born Prince George of Battenberg, styled Earl of Medina between 1917 and 1921, was a Royal Navy officer and the elder son of Louis Mountbatten, 1st Marquess of Milford Haven (Prince Louis of Battenberg) and Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine. His subsidiary titles included Viscount Alderney.\n\nMountbatten was born at Darmstadt in the Grand Duchy of Hesse, then ruled by his maternal uncle Ernest Louis, Grand Duke of Hesse. From birth, he was a prince of the Hessian royal family, albeit of a morganatic branch. His siblings were Princess Alice (mother of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, to whom he was a mentor in Philip's adolescence, a role assumed after his death by his younger brother Louis), Queen Louise of Sweden and Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma.\n\nGeorge followed his father into the Royal Navy, and after passing out from the Royal Naval College at Dartmouth, was promoted to sub-lieutenant on 15 January 1913. He was promoted to lieutenant on 15 February 1914, and served in the First World War. In 1917, his father and several of his relations relinquished their German names, styles and titles in exchange for British peerages at the behest of King George V. Accordingly, Prince George dropped the style of \"Serene Highness\" and his surname was anglicised to \"Mountbatten.\" When his father was created Marquess of Milford Haven in late 1917, George received the courtesy title of \"Earl of Medina\", succeeding to his father's peerage after his death in 1921.\n\nHe remained in the Navy after the war; he was promoted to lieutenant-commander on 15 February 1922 and to commander on 31 December 1926. In 1932, he retired from active service at his own request, with effect from 9 December of that year. On 6 November 1937, shortly before his death, he was promoted to the rank of captain on the retired list.\n\nAn accomplished mathematician, the Marquess \"could work out complicated gunnery problems in his head\" and \"read books on calculus casually on trains\". Queen Elizabeth II, his niece-in-law, considered him \"one of the most intelligent and brilliant of people\".\n\nMountbatten married Countess Nadejda Mikhailovna de Torby (daughter of Russian Grand Duke Michael Mikhailovich Romanov and his morganatic wife, Countess Sophie von Merenberg) on 15 November 1916 at the Russian Embassy, Welbeck Street, London. They lived at Lynden Manor at Holyport in Berkshire and had two children:\n\n\nMountbatten died of bone marrow cancer, aged 45, and was buried in Bray Cemetery, Bray, Berkshire.\n\nMountbatten left artefacts including a collection of pornography to the British Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892945", "title": "Slavuta", "text": "Slavuta\n\nSlavuta (, , , ) is a city of oblast subordinance in the Khmelnytskyi Oblast (province) of western Ukraine, located on the Horyn River. Serving as the administrative center of the Slavutskyi Raion (district), the city itself is also designated as a separate raion within the oblast, and is located approximately 80 km from the oblast capital, Khmelnytskyi, at around .\n\nLocated in Volhynia, Slavuta was founded by a member of Zaslawski family in 1633. As the family extinguished, all its possessions were transferred to Lubomirski family. Eventually the town was passed on to Marianna Lubomirska who married Pawel Sanguszko who turned the town into the family seat of the Sanguszko princes.\n\nBetween 1922 and 1939 it was on the Soviet border with Poland.\n\nIn 1791 the Szapira family set up a Hebrew printing press in Slavuta, which published an influential edition of the Talmud. Moshe Feldenkrais was born in Slavuta on May 6, 1904.\n\nSlavuta has a rich Jewish history. The town had a prominent Jewish community since near its establishment in the 1600s. Town records show 246 Jewish families in 1765.\n\nThe peak of the Jewish population of Slavuta is over 5100 in 1939, about 1/3 of the town's population. In the late 1890s the Jewish population of Slavuta was near 60% at 4900 people.\n\nThe Jewish community consisted of farmers, traders, storekeepers, and rabbinical teachers. Slavuta at one point had nearly 200 Jewish owned shops, largely due to Slavuta being established as a prominent trading town and Jewish center. Slavuta also had three established synagogues.\n\nA complete Talmud, known as \"The Slavita Shas\" was published in 1817 by Rabbi Moshe Shapiro, \"\"Av Bais Din\" and printer of Slavita.\"\n\nWith WWII and the invasion of Nazis, the Jews of Slavuta had a fate similar as the Jews of hundreds of other villages near and far. Many hundreds were able to flee to Tashkent and Siberia. But over 2000 Jews were killed in the Slavuta ghetto and concentration camp. All but one synagogue remained, and the mass grave of Jews killed was left in a field.\n\nAfter WWII, the town still had a sizable Jewish community. The survivors of the ghetto and concentration camp, the Jews who fled to Siberia and Tashkent, as well as surviving Jews from surrounding villages that had been completely destroyed, came back and resettled. Synagogue papers, furniture, and scripts from the surrounding ravaged communities had been brought to the Slavuta synagogue. Slavuta also had many monuments established, dedicated to the Jews killed during WWII. Today, the Jewish population is nearly 700.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1892961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892961", "title": "Tally light", "text": "Tally light\n\nIn a television studio, a tally light is a small signal-lamp on a professional video camera or monitor. It is usually located just above the lens or on the electronic viewfinder (EVF) and communicates, for the benefit of those in front of the camera as well as the camera operator, that the camera is 'live' - i.e. its signal is being used for the 'main program' at that moment. \n\nFor television productions with more than one camera in a multiple-camera setup, the tally lights are generally illuminated automatically by a vision mixer trigger that is fed to a tally breakout board and then to a special video router designed for tally signals. The video switcher keeps track of which video sources are selected by the technical director and output to the main program bus. A switch automatically closes the appropriate electrical contacts to create a circuit, which activates the tally unit located in the camera control units (CCU). \n\nIf more than one camera is on-air simultaneously (as in the case of a dissolve), during the duration of the transition the tally lights of both cameras will remain lit until transition completion. This is also the case when multiple cameras are placed in 'boxes' on screen, sometimes referred to as \"picture in picture\" mode (PiP) . \n\nTally (also known as the 'on-air' indication) lights are typically red, although some cameras and video switchers accept a preview tally signal, which is typically green.\n\nIn addition to the tally lights, an additional light called ISO is sometimes used. ISO is the abbreviation for \"isolated\", and indicates that the video signal is isolated and recorded separately. When the camera's signal isn't used for the main program, but is being recorded for later video editing, a yellow light indicates to the camera operator that the content might be used at a later stage. So, although not 'on air', the operator should try to prevent making sudden moves etc. The ISO content is typically used for b-roll shots such as people's reactions when it's uncertain if, when, and how they will react.\n"}
{"id": "1892983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892983", "title": "Hopton Incline", "text": "Hopton Incline\n\nUntil it closed in 1967 the Hopton Incline was the steepest stretch of conventional, adhesion-worked standard gauge railway running line in the UK. The incline was situated in sparsely populated, exposed limestone uplands in the Peak District of Derbyshire, England.\n\nIt is possible that steeper stretches were to be found in sidings, but the Hopton Incline was on the former Cromford and High Peak Railway's single-track main line as inherited by British Railways.\n\nThe line as a whole opened in part in 1830, with the remainder following in 1831; Hopton Incline was in the first, southern part. The 33 mile route originally included nine inclined planes, which were often referred to as \"planes\" rather than \"inclines\"; staff who worked on inclines, for example, were formally known as \"Planemen\". Initially, all nine planes were double track. Trains were chain-hauled, eight were powered by a stationary winding engine at the summit, with ascending and descending wagons acting as counterbalances to ease the load. The Whaley Bridge incline was initially horse-drawn. At first trains were horse-drawn between inclines, with steam locomotives starting to appear in 1833, becoming universal by the 1860s except on the Whaley Bridge incline. Inclines were a means to cross hilly terrain, but they imposed significant costs in money and time.\n\nFrom south to north the inclines were:\n\nBy the 1870s Hopton Incline's winding engine had given 40 years' service and was life-expired. During that time locomotive power had moved on, therefore in 1877 Hopton incline's chains and engines were removed, after which the incline became a conventional adhesion railway; trains ascended the bank under their own power and descended using their own brakes. The more westerly line on the incline fell into disuse and was lifted at some time between 1889 and 1903. In 1886 an inspector recommended the gradient be eased to allow greater loads, but nothing happened until 1903 when the trackbed at the foot of the incline was raised to ease the slope, which northbound trains approached at the gently downhill gradient of 1 in 1056. The top was also shaved to ease a short final stretch to 1 in 470. From the bottom the amended slope became progressively steeper in stages: 1 in 60 for , 1 in 30 for , 1 in 20 for , then at 1 in 14, easing to 1 in 470 before levelling off. The approach was gently downhill, but it included what in railway terms was a fairly sharp bend of radius, before the incline foot.\nThe section of line including the incline was opened on 29 May 1830. Initially, trains to and from the incline were horse-drawn, but the intention, as enshrined in the enabling legislation, was also to use steam locomotives, the first of which started work in 1833. Horse-haulage finished by the mid-1860s. Steam locomotives started to use the incline from 18 April 1877. Diesel shunter 12006 was trialled in 1959, but was considered unsuitable, largely because it was barely able to climb the incline on its own, without any load. A further trial took place in August 1966, using Class 08 diesel shunter D3778. The locomotive was rostered to take over from steam from 31 August 1966, but for some reason it did not happen and steam monopolised the incline until closure the following spring. Trains were conventional, but locomotives and rolling stock nevertheless had to be carefully selected. Only four-wheeled wagons, tenders and brake vans were permitted and few locomotives could negotiate Gotham Curve's extreme curvature without putting machine and track under unacceptable strain. This led to a limited number of locomotive types using the curve for unusually long periods. In 1931 several NLR 0-6-0Ts were moved from the London area to the line, remaining there until 1960, when they were displaced by a small fleet of J94 0-6-0STs, which worked the stretch until closure. Both classes of locomotive, despite having six-coupled wheels, were specifically designed for low-speed, high power dock and shunting work, where they could encounter severe curves and gradients. Not only was short wheelbase rolling stock necessary for the line's tight curves, but Hopton Incline imposed a severe limit as to what load could be hauled uphill, especially in wet or icy moorland conditions, when splitting trains down to two wagons at a time was not rare.\n\nPassenger services ran up and down the incline from 1833 to 1876. The line's rule book made it clear that passengers were not to stay on board on inclines, but this was not always observed. Loadings in this sparsely-populated upland area were very light. Evidence of the forms of provision is patchy and inconsistent, with the clearest sources being anecdotal. Some horse-drawn provision appears to have been based on stage-coaches, with inside and outside provision similar to the 'Dandy' used on the service to . Later, locomotive-hauled, passengers were accommodated by attaching a specially adapted guard's van to conventional goods trains; the adaptation consisted of putting some seating in the van's goods section. This was known on the line as a \"Fly\", though the term appears to have been used interchangeably to mean the vehicle and the train.\n\nPassenger traffic was slight and general goods was substantially less than the line's promoters foresaw, especially after the line was effectively bypassed in the 1860s then truncated in 1892. The sparsely populated, largely agricultural area surrounding the curve meant that coal was the only significant inflow and milk the only significant outflow, except for the one traffic which dominated all – stone products, notably limestone and burnt lime. This traffic grew, and kept the line through the incline open despite its many operating obstacles, of which the incline was but one. Towards the end the incline's significance grew, as quarrying processes became more efficient and rail sought higher payloads the light trains of four-wheels-only limitations kept trains short and composed of small, slow-moving, obsolescent and uneconomic wagons. There was one other traffic, a Nineteenth Century relic, whereby the line carried water. Limestone uplands drain naturally, so, despite the high rainfall, water supply to outlying properties was a problem. Some railway properties needed water, the railway itself needed water and in the 1960s Prestwich Intake Quarry needed water, so it was carried on trains using specially adapted former locomotive tenders.\n\nOn October 6, 1937, the 8:35 am freight train going from Middleton to Parsley Hay left the rails while running chimney first at the foot of the Hopton Incline. Traveling at a speed of around 45 miles per hour and consisting of four laden wagons and a 20-ton brake van, the engine, three of the wagons, and the brake van were impelled down a 25 foot embankment, coming to rest on a public road. The fourth wagon remained on the embankment, running off on the opposite side of the track.\n\nIn 1971 the Peak Park Planning Board and Derbyshire County Council bought the track bed from the site of Hurdlow station, near Buxton, through the Hopton Incline to High Peak Junction, near Cromford and turned it into the High Peak Trail, which is now National Route 54 of the National Cycle Network. The trail is popular with walkers, cyclists and horse riders.\n\nThe High Peak Trail is also designated as part of the Pennine Bridleway, a leisure route that starts at Middleton Top, not far from the incline, and covers through Derbyshire to the South Pennines.\n\nThe incline was dramatic in railway terms. As part of an off-road trail it catches the public's eye, but not with the same impact as rope-hauled inclines, embankments, machinery, buildings and scenery. The adjacent road also diminishes the impact except for people \"in the know\". It is, nevertheless, preserved for all to enjoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892988", "title": "Counts of Castell", "text": "Counts of Castell\n\nThe House of Castell is a German noble family of mediatised counts of the old Holy Roman Empire. In 1901, the heads of the two family branches, \"Castell-Castell\" and \"Castell-Rüdenhausen\", were each granted the hereditary title of Prince by Luitpold, Prince Regent of Bavaria.\n\nThe family appears in 1057 with \"Robbrath de Castello\". The County of Castell was created in 1200, in the modern region of Franconia in northern Bavaria, Germany. Rulership of Castell was shared between the brothers Louis and Rupert II in 1223, and later with the brothers Albert II, Frederick II and Henry I in 1235. The County was partitioned into Elder and Younger lines in 1254, which were reunited in 1347 with the extinction of the Elder branch. Castell was repartitioned in 1597 into Castell-Remlingen and Castell-Rüdenhausen. When Count Wolfgang Theodoric of Castell-Castell (itself a partition of Castell-Remlingen) died in 1709, the County of Castell was recreated as a partition. Castell was annexed to Castell-Castell in 1772.\n\n\"Partitioned between Elder and Younger lines\"\n\n\"Line extinct and inherited by the Younger line, which renamed itself to Castell\"\n\n\"Line inherited the Elder branch and was renamed to Castell\"\n\n\"Partitioned into Castell-Remlingen and Castell-Rüdenhausen\"\n\n\"Inherited by Count Christian Frederick Charles of Castell-Castell\"\n\nThe family was mediatized in 1806 and 1815, however without the loss of its equal-to-royal rank, and the two states were incorporated into Bavaria. In 1901, both branches received the Bavarian rank of Prince (only in primogeniture), with the title of Prince (Serene Highness) for the heads of the branches and the title of Count/Countess (Illustrious Highness) for all other members of the House.\n\n\n\nThis is a collateral line of Castell-Rüdenhausen. Through the marriage of Count Alexander von Castell-Rüdenhausen (1866–1928) with Baroness Ottilie von Faber (1877–1944), from a well-known family of industrialists, the branch of Faber-Castell was created in 1898.\n\nThe current Faber-Castell company was founded in 1761 at Stein near Nuremberg by cabinet maker Kaspar Faber (1730–84), and it has remained in the family for nine generations. The company opened branches in New York (1849), London (1851) and Paris (1855), and then expanded to Vienna (1872) and St. Petersburg (1874). It opened a factory in Geroldsgrün and expanded internationally, and it launched new products under Kaspar Faber's ambitious great-grandson, Lothar von Faber (1817–96). In 1900, after the marriage of Lothar's granddaughter with a cadet of the Counts of Castell, the A.W. Faber enterprise took the name of \"Faber-Castell\" and a new logo, combining the Faber motto (\"Since 1761\") with the \"jousting knights\" of the Castells' coat-of-arms.\n\nA descendant of the first Prince of Castell-Rüdenhausen, Count Alexander von Castell-Rüdenhausen (1866–1928), married Baroness Ottilie von Faber (1877–1944), heiress of the Faber pencil \"dynasty\", in 1898. Although the immensely wealthy Lothar von Faber had been ennobled in 1861 and titled as \"Freiherr\" (Baron) von Faber in the Kingdom of Bavaria in 1881, in the German Empire, a mediatised nobleman's marriage to Lothar's granddaughter would have been deemed morganatic, and the count's trafficking in commerce considered an act of social for a member of the \"Hochadel\", so Alexander renounced his birth rank prior to the marriage. He was granted the new hereditary title of \"Graf\" (Count) von Faber-Castell by Luitpold, Prince Regent of Bavaria, for the descendants of his marriage to the Faber heiress. Although Alexander and Ottilie divorced in 1918, the Faber business trust had conferred headship of the company on Alexander, who even kept the Fabers' renovated palace at Stein (which would be commandeered to billet journalists during the Nuremberg trials, including Ernest Hemingway and John Steinbeck).\n\nIn 1927, Alexander resumed his original name for himself, his second wife (born a countess, Margit Zedtwitz von Moravan und Duppau, 1886–1973), and their son, Count Radulf (1922–2004). Alexander's issue by his first marriage had never been considered dynasts of the House of Castell, but they inherited the vast Faber fortune and continue to include 'Castell' in their surname with the comital title. Alexander and Ottilie's only son, Count Roland Lothar Wolfgang Christian Ernst Wilhelm von Faber-Castell (1905–78), inherited the headship of the Faber-Castell companies from his parents.\n\nThe immensely wealthy Lothar Faber was ennobled in 1861 and made Baron von Faber in the Kingdom of Bavaria in 1881. The sons of his only son Wilhelm (1851–1893) (by his wife Bertha Faber {1856-1940}, daughter of Lothar's younger brother, Eberhard {1822-1879}, who had founded the New York branch of the company) having died young, a marriage for his granddaughter and heiress Ottilie was arranged with a scion of one of Germany's formerly ruling comital dynasties. Yet in the conservative German Empire of \"fin-de-siècle\" Europe, the marriage of a Faber into a family of the high nobility was regarded as too bold a leap upward socially. A morganatic marriage would have been required, and the Faber pencil works could not have remained in the hands of their descendants because trafficking in commerce was still considered an act of social among members of the \"Hochadel\".\n\nTo resolve this dilemma, the chosen groom, Count Alexander von Castell-Rüdenhausen (1866–1928) renounced his birth rank prior to the marriage. The Castell family had been Imperial counts in Franconia, known since the 11th century. When the Holy Roman Empire was dissolved under pressure from Napoleon I in 1806, the Castell lands were annexed by the Kingdom of Bavaria. Although deprived of sovereignty, in 1815 the Castells were mediatized, their rank with the reigning dynasties of Europe being formally recognized, and family would be granted the hereditary title of Prince.\n\nCount Alexander, a younger son of the first prince, married the pencil heiress, Baroness Ottilie von Faber (1877–1944), in 1898. He was granted the new hereditary title of Count von Faber-Castell in Bavaria for the descendants of their marriage. Although Alexander and Ottilie divorced in 1918, the Faber business trust had transferred headship of the company to Alexander, who even kept the Fabers' renovated palace at Stein (which would be commandeered to billet journalists during the Nuremberg trials, including Ernest Hemingway and John Steinbeck).\n\nIn 1927 Alexander resumed his original name for himself, his second wife (born a countess, Margit Zedtwitz von Moravan und Duppau, 1886–1973), and their son, Count Radulf (1922–2004). His issue by the first marriage had never been considered dynasts of the House of Castell, but they inherited the vast Faber fortune and continue to include \"Castell\" in their name with the comital title.\n\nVarious branches of the family continued to flourish, but the Faber and Faber-Castell corporate holdings usually passed to the eldest male of the patrilineage. Alexander and Ottilie's only son, Count Roland von Faber-Castell (1905–78), inherited headship of the Faber-Castell companies from his parents. His eldest son, left the family business after a dispute with his father and was succeeded by his younger brother, (1941-2016). \nAs the first born, Count Hubertus inherited the majority of the family's assets, yet sold most of his company shares to his successor, after leaving the company. Count Hubertus joined his maternal family business Sal Oppenheim. The company stakes, made Count Hubertus von Faber-Castell, a billionaire.\nCount Anton Wolfgang von Faber-Castell who left a son, Charles Alexander von Faber-Castell (born in Zürich 20 June 1980) of his 1986 marriage to Carla Mathilde Lamesch. His widow, Mary Hogan (born 1951), continues as managing director of Faber-Castell's cosmetics division. His three daughters, Countess Katharina Elizabeth (born 5 May 1988), and twins Countess Sarah Angela and Countess Victoria Maria (born 1 August 1996) succeed him.\n\nHubertus's daughter, Countess Floria-Franziska von Faber-Castell (b. 1974) was married at Kronberg on 17 May 2003 in a much-publicised wedding attended by members of Europe's reigning families, to Donatus, Hereditary Prince of Hesse, a great-grandson of King Victor Emmanuel III of Italy and a grand-nephew of Princess Sophie of Greece and Denmark, sister of Britain's prince consort Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. \nHis second daughter is German-Swiss philanthropist Caroline von Faber-Castell, who is married to Düsseldorf-based entrepreneur Michael Gotzens.\nPatrick von Faber-Castell publicly married German actress Mariella Ahrens in Faber-Castell Castle, near Nuremberg. The siblings own one of the most important collections of silver and jewelry in Germany. Most of the pieces are available to the public in various German museums. The private collection has been recorded by the Kunstmuseum Köln and has been published under the name \"Ein Rheinischer Silber Schatz – Schmuck und Geraet aus Privatbesitz\".\n\nCastell, Texas in the USA is named after Count Carl Frederick Christian of Castell-Castell (1801–1850), who was the Vice President and Business Manager at the beginning of the Adelsverein, a German settlement organization.\n\nThe present heads of the existing two branches are Prince Albrecht of Castell-Castell and Prince Otto Friedrich of Castell-Rüdenhausen.\n\n"}
{"id": "1892999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1892999", "title": "Gonystylus", "text": "Gonystylus\n\nGonystylus is a southeast Asian genus of about 30 species of hardwood trees also known as ramin, melawis (Malay) and ramin telur (Sarawak).\n\nRamin is native to Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, Brunei, the Philippines, and Papua New Guinea, with the highest species diversity on Borneo. It is related to \"Arnhemia\", \"Deltaria\", \"Lethedon\" and \"Solmsia\".\n\nRamin is a medium-sized tree, attaining a height of about 24 m (80 ft) with a straight, clear (branch-free), unbuttressed bole about 18 m (60 ft) long and 60 cm (2 ft) in diameter. The trees are slow-growing, occurring mainly in swamp forests.\n\n \"The Plant List\" recognises 32 accepted species:\n\nThe white wood, harder and lighter in colour than many other hardwoods, is often used in children's furniture, window blinds, dowels, handles, blinds, and decorative mouldings.\n\nHowever, over-exploitation has led to all species of ramin being listed as endangered species, particularly in Indonesia and Malaysia. An estimated 90% of ramin in recent international trade is illegally logged.As the ramin forests themselves come under attack, the fragile ecosystems they support are also at risk. These trees provide the main habitat for other priority species such as the orangutan and the Indochinese, Sumatran and Malayan tigers.\n\nSumatra’s peat swamp forests are an important habitat for ramin trees. The Sumatran ramin tree species are CITES protected species. The logging and trade of ramin has been illegal in Indonesia since 2001. Internationally, any illegal trade in Indonesian ramin is prohibited under the UN Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species (CITES). Indonesian government maps show that 800,000ha (28%) of Sumatra’s peat swamp forest was cleared between 2003 and 2009. Some 22% of this\nclearance was in areas currently allocated to APP’s log suppliers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893001", "title": "Cyatheaceae", "text": "Cyatheaceae\n\nThe Cyatheaceae are a family of tree ferns, the scaly tree ferns, one of eight families in the order Cyatheales in the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I). Alternatively, the family may defined much more broadly (Cyatheaceae \"sensu lato\") as the only family in the Cyatheales, with the PPG I family treated as the subfamily Cyatheoideae. The narrower circumscription is used in this article.\n\nThe family includes the world's tallest tree ferns, which reach heights up to 20 m. They are also very ancient plants, appearing in the fossil record in the late Jurassic, though the modern genera likely appeared in the Cenozoic. Cyatheaceae are the largest family of tree ferns, including about 640 species. Cyatheaceae and Dicksoniaceae, together with Metaxyaceae and Cibotiaceae, are a monophyletic group and constitute the \"core tree ferns\". Cyatheaceae are leptosporangiate ferns, the most familiar group of monilophytes.\n\nThe Cyatheaceae usually have a single, erect trunk-like rhizome (stem). Their fronds (leaves) are also very large, some of the largest in the plant kingdom. Some species have fronds reaching 3–4 m in length, and have a final crown width of some 6 m. The fronds are circinate before unfolding and usually pinnately or bipinnately compound, with deeply pinnately lobed leaflets. The large leaves are covered in scales and hairs, and bear sori (spore clusters) on their undersides. The sori are often covered by a flap of tissue called an indusium, a useful characteristic for classifying the Cyatheaceae. Some indusia are cup-shaped (cyatheoid), while others are hood-shaped (hemitelioid), enclose the sorus (sphaeropteroid), or scaly. Like most ferns, members of the Cyatheaceae are homosporous. Cyatheaceae are found in both New and Old World tropical wet montane forests and cloud forests, with some species extending into south-temperate regions. Most Cyatheaceae are terrestrial, with one sometimes being epiphytic and others having a creeping habit, but these are exceptions to the family norm.\n\nCyatheaceae can be distinguished from arborescent \"Dicksonia\" by the presence of scales, the position of the sori, and the morphology of sporangia and spores. In the Cyatheaceae, the sori occur away from the margins of the pinnules, and are elongate or rounded.\n\n, two different circumscriptions of the family Cyatheaceae are used, as summarized in the table below. In the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I), the family is one of eight in the order Cyatheales, and has three genera. In the classification of Christenhusz & Chase (2014), the family is the only one in the order Cytheales, the families of PPG I being reduced to subfamilies. It then has 13–14 genera. The \"sensu stricto\" circumscription of PPG I is used here.\nSince the exact number of species is not known, classification of the Cyatheaceae \"s.s.\" has had a long and controversial history, and is still undergoing revision. Three tentative clades have been developed: \"Alsophila\", \"Cyathea\", and \"Sphaeropteris\". These are frequently used as genus names. \"Cnemidaria\", \"Trichopteris\" (or \"Trichipteris\"), and \"Nephelea\" (or \"Nephelia\") have also been suggested as genera. Initially, indusium and scale morphology were used to organize the Cyatheaceae into taxonomic ranks. Most recently, plastid DNA has been used, suggesting the Cyatheaceae should be split into four clades: \"Sphaeropteris\", \"Cyathea\", \"Alsophila\", and \"Gymnosphaera + A. capensis\". , it remained unclear which of these groups should be considered genera and which subgenera.\n\nThe Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I) accepts three genera, placing the \"Gymnosphaera\" clade within \"Alsophila\":\n\nIn 2018, Dong and Zuo provided names in \"Gymnosphaera\" for species they considered to belong in this genus. Their hypothesis for the evolutionary relationship between these genera, based on their molecular phylogenetic study, is shown in the cladogram below.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893007", "title": "Castell-Rüdenhausen", "text": "Castell-Rüdenhausen\n\nCastell-Rüdenhausen was a County in the region of Franconia in northern Bavaria of the Holy Roman Empire, ruled by a branch of the Counts of Castell. It was created as a partition of Castell and in 1806, it was mediatised to Bavaria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893016", "title": "Musha, Egypt", "text": "Musha, Egypt\n\nMusha () is a village in the Asyut Governorate, Egypt. \n\nIt is the birthplace of the author and Islamist Sayyid Qutb. The Nicholas S. Hopkins Collection includes photographs of Musha from the 1980s.\n"}
{"id": "1893019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893019", "title": "Gabriel Riesser", "text": "Gabriel Riesser\n\nGabriel Riesser (2 April 1806 – 22 April 1863) was a German politician and lawyer.\n\nBoth of Riesser's grandfathers were rabbis; his paternal grandfather was Jakob Pinchas Katzenellenbogen, rabbi in Lemberg and later Oettingen, and his maternal grandfather was Raphael Cohen, Chief Rabbi of Altona-Hamburg-Wandsbek from 1775. Yet his father, having changed the family name from Katzenellenbogen to Riesser, chose to work as a secretary at the Jewish law court of Altona before he finally became a merchant in Hamburg. After his education at the renowned grammar school Johanneum, Gabriel Riesser went to Heidelberg and Kiel, where he studied law from 1824 to 1828, writing his doctorate dissertation in Heidelberg. He became a leading advocate of Jewish emancipation. He had himself suffered discrimination because of his religion: in Heidelberg and Jena he was denied the position of a university lecturer, in Hamburg in 1829 he was not allowed to practice as a lawyer. In his application he had recurred to a privilege of equal treatment that had been granted during the French occupation. His application, however, was refused because he formally was no citizen (which he as a Jew could not become) of the city of Hamburg.\n\nIn reaction Riesser in 1830 published an essay \"Stellung der Bekenner des mosaischen Glaubens in Deutschland\" (On the Position of Confessors of the Jewish Faith in Germany). In 1832 he founded the journal \"Der Jude, periodische Blätter für Religions- und Gewissensfreiheit\" (The Jew, Periodical for Freedom of Religion and Thought). He also wrote a note on the emancipation of Jews for the parliament of the German state Baden in 1833. From 1836 onwards he composed the \"Jüdische Briefe\" (Jewish Letters) in Bockenheim near Frankfurt am Main, which were subsequently published in Berlin in 1840-42.\n\nRiesser was chairman of the Hamburg Temple Association from 1840-43.\n\nIn 1840 the Senate of Hamburg (city-state government) passed a law stating that \"künftighin auch ein oder zwei Mitglieder der hiesigen israelitischen Gemeinde, wenn sie sonst dazu qualifiziert wären, Notare werden könnten\" (in future also one or two members of the local Jewish community might become notaries, if they otherwise were duly qualified). This change of mind of the senate was brought about by the death of the Jewish notary Meyer Israel Bresselau, who had been installed during French annexation in 1811. Riesser applied for the vacant position. From 1840 to 1857 he practised as a notary in Hamburg.\n\nIn 1848 Riesser was a member of the revolutionary Frankfurt Parliament where he was vice-president. He was elected for the constituency of Saxe-Lauenburg. Riesser was a member of the \"Kaiserdeputation\" which offered the Prussian King Frederich William IV the German crown.\n\nWhen the civil rights of the \"Paulskirchenverfassung\" (Constitution of St. Paul's Church) came into effect in Hamburg on 21 February 1849, Riesser was able to become citizen of Hamburg, a rare and dear franchise at that time, which the bulk of the inhabitants did not hold. In 1859 he was elected to the Bürgerschaft of Hamburg (city-state parliament). In October 1860 he was appointed as a member of the city's new upper court (Obergericht), becoming the first Jewish judge in Germany. In 1861 Isaac Wolffson, Riesser's colleague and fellow advocate for Jewish emancipation, was elected president of the Hamburg parliament, becoming the first Jewish president of a German parliament.\nRiesser was buried at the Jewish Grindel cemetery in Hamburg. When the Nazis ordered its demolition in 1937, the Ashkenazi Congregation transferred the graves, including his, to the Jewish section of Ohlsdorf Cemetery in Hamburg.\n\nThere is a street named after Riesser In Hamburg-Hamm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893020", "title": "Descending aorta", "text": "Descending aorta\n\nThe descending aorta is part of the aorta, the largest artery in the body. The descending aorta begins at the aortic arch and runs down through the chest and abdomen. The descending aorta anatomically consists of two portions or segments, the thoracic and the abdominal aorta, in correspondence with the two great cavities of the trunk in which it is situated. Within the abdomen, the descending aorta branches into the two common iliac arteries which serve the pelvis and eventually legs.\n\nThe ductus arteriosus connects to the junction between the pulmonary artery and the descending aorta in foetal life. This artery later regresses as the ligamentum arteriosum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893027", "title": "Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad", "text": "Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad\n\nThe Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad is a shortline railroad that operates in southwestern Pennsylvania. The SWP uses rail branches that were acquired from CSX Transportation (originally the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad) and Conrail (originally the Pennsylvania Railroad). All of the track used by the SWP is in either Fayette or Westmoreland counties. SWP provides local service to many customers in the area, connecting them to the outside world via interchanges with Norfolk Southern, Wheeling & Lake Erie Railroad, and CSX. SWP has been vital in the location of several new industries to Fayette and Westmoreland Counties in recent years.\n\nThe main line of the SWP railroad runs as far north as Radebaugh in Hempfield Township. It then passes Greensburg and Scottdale (the location of the railyard) to an interchange with NS and W&LE in Everson. The SWP mainline passes through the coal towns of Owensdale and Broadford, before reaching a junction with CSX. It operates over CSX tracks through Connellsville, where it leaves CSX to run south through Dunbar and Mt Braddock to Uniontown. The route ends after passing through Fairchance and Smithfield. Near the end of the line in Smithfield is a new large fracking-sand facility owned by Hi-Crush Partners, which receives 40 ft covered hoppers.\n\nThe railroad features several branch lines. One travels to Yukon (in South Huntingdon Township) to serve a box and packaging facility. Another branch runs from Everson to Mt. Pleasant, Pennsylvania and New Stanton. Here, the Westmoreland Rail Freight Terminal, a large bulk transload facility, is served. This location also has a new ethanol plant under construction. The Bullskin Branch serves a small coal loadout named Bullskin Tipple which actually is in Connellsville Township, Pennsylvania. It is only used occasionally. Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad's operational headquarters are located in Oakmont, Pennsylvania. The SWP is operated by Carload Express, Inc., which also operates three other shortline railroads: The Allegheny Valley Railroad (AVR) serving the Pittsburgh area, the Ohio Terminal Railway, and the Delmarva Central Railroad.\n\nThe current SWP roster consists of SWP 4006 GP40-2 mated with SWP 406 slug, which in combination are referred to as an HD40-2 by Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad. This combination has 3000 HP, 8 powered axles and two fuel tanks. SWP 4006 was repainted and SWP 406 was rebuilt by Metro East Industries, Inc. of St. Louis, Ill in 2015. Other locomotives from sister railroad AVR are lent to SWP from time to time as needed.\n\nThe Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad began operations in June 1995 when Trimax (now Carload Express) was selected to operate of railroad by the Westmoreland County Industrial Development Corporation and the Fay-Penn Industrial Development Corporation. In May 2000, the Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad started service to the Westmoreland Rail Freight terminal near New Stanton. The railroad began service to the Hunter Panels plant in the Fayette Business Park in Fairchance in 2006. In 2011, the Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad commenced service to the Fayette Rail Freight terminal in Smithfield. This facility is now operated by Hi-Crush Partners and serves unit trains of sand for hydraulic fracturing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893028", "title": "Castell-Remlingen", "text": "Castell-Remlingen\n\nCastell-Remlingen was a County located in the region of Franconia in northern Bavaria, Germany, ruled by a branch of the Counts of Castell. It was created as a partition of Castell in 1597, and in 1668 it was partitioned between itself and Castell-Castell. It was annexed to Castell in 1762.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893035", "title": "Alberic Crescitelli", "text": "Alberic Crescitelli\n\nSaint Alberico (Alberic) Crescitelli (1863–1900), Chinese name Guo Xide (), was an Italian Catholic priest and missionary to China. Born in Italy on 30 June 1863, Father Alberico Crescitelli entered the Pontifical Institute for Foreign Missions in 1880 and was ordained a priest on 4 June 1887. The following year he went to China and began work in southern Shaanxi.\n\nCrescitelli was believed to have been killed in the Boxer Rebellion. Crescitelli's confreres, who had known him well and for many years, started his beatification cause in 1908, only eight years after his death. The testimony provided by the confreres was unanimous about the holiness of Crescitelli's life.\n\nAt the Vatican, in St. Peter's Basilica on 18 February 1951, Pope Pius XII declared Alberico Crescitelli \"blessed.\" The Pope's speech was memorable especially for the passage in which he described Father Alberico's martyrdom:\n\nPope John Paul II included him in the list of 120 Martyr Saints of China canonized in St. Peter's Square on October 1, 2000.\n\nThis large group canonisation was bitterly opposed in China itself, with Bishop Fu Tieshan, the leader of the state-run Chinese Patriotic Catholic Association describing it as \"intolerable\". A statement released by the Chinese Foreign Ministry alleged that \"some of those canonised by the Vatican this time perpetrated outrages such as raping or looting in China and committed unforgivable crimes against the Chinese people.\" A further statement from China's State Administration of Religious Affairs singled out Alberico Crescitelli for special comment, alleging that he had been \"notorious for taking the 'right of the first night' of each bride under his diocese.\" The Catholic Church's Holy Spirit Study Centre in Hong Kong has described the accusations as baseless.\n\nIn his homily at the canonisation ceremony on 1 October 2000, Pope John Paul II made a statement asking for forgiveness for any past wrongs by the missionaries to China: \"There are those who with a partial and not very objective reading of history see only limits and errors in their action. If they happened - is there any man exempt from defects? - we ask for forgiveness.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1893037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893037", "title": "Ca trù", "text": "Ca trù\n\nCa trù (, , \"tally card songs\"), also known as hát cô đầu or hát nói, is a Vietnamese genre of musical storytelling performed by a featuring female vocalist, with origins in northern Vietnam. For much of its history, it was associated with a pansori - like form of entertainment, which combined entertaining wealthy people as well as performing religious songs for the royal court.\n\nCa trù is inscribed on the list of Intangible Cultural Heritage in need of Urgent Safeguarding in 2009.\n\nThere are different myths and theories related to ca trù's conception. There is a theory points to a woman named Đào Thị, a talented musician who was beloved by the Lý Dynasty imperial court. This theory also claims that ever since the time of Đào Thị, in admiration of her, women who held a profession as singers (such as ca trù singers) were referred to as Đào nương (\"nương\" here refers roughly to \"maiden\" or \"lady\"). The latter is true although this term is no longer widely used in modern Vietnam.\n\nWhat is known for sure is that ca trù started off like many of Vietnam's arts as being a form of entertainment for the royal court. Officially ca tru count the age of their profession since The Later Le dynasty (, 1010—1225), at that time musicians called performed only on religious court ceremonies. It was only later on that it branched out into being performed at small inns. Indeed, it was mainly scholars and other members of the elite who enjoyed the genere.\n\nIn the 15th century ca tru spread through Northern Vietnam. The artists might be called to celebrate a son's birth, or to celebrate the signing of a contract. Ca tru were outside of the caste system, so they could entertain the most noble clients.\nIn the 20th century, ca trù nearly died out. When the Communists came to power after the 1945 August Revolution, Ca Trù was systematically suppressed, becoming associated with prostitution and the degradation of women. Consequently, before 1976 there existed only two ca tru: and . Later they both started to revive the tradition of ca tru. In actuality, men were allowed many wives in the past and having extramarital affairs was nothing shocking. Thus, it was commonly known that many famous ca trù singers did indeed have affairs with important men, but it was just something to be accepted as a part of society back then, and not a part of the profession itself.\n\nAs of 2009, extensive efforts are being made to invigorate the genre, including many festivals and events where several types of ca trù (among other related arts) are performed. Vietnam has also completed documents to have ca trù recognized by UNESCO as an Intangible Cultural Heritage.\n\nBy 2011 there were 140 ca tru from 23 clubs.\n\nCa trù, like many ancient and highly developed arts, has many forms. However, the most widely known and widely performed type of ca trù involves only three performers: the female vocalist, lute player and a spectator (who also takes part in the performance). Sometimes dance is also performed at the same time.\n\nThe female singer provides the vocals whilst playing her \"phách\" (small wooden sticks beaten on a small bamboo bar to serve as percussion).\n\nShe is accompanied by a man who plays the \"đàn đáy\", a long-necked, 3-string lute used almost exclusively for the ca trù genre.\n\nLast is the spectator (often a scholar or connoisseur of the art) who strikes a \"trống chầu\" (praise drum) in praise (or disapproval) of the singer's performance, usually with every passage of the song. The way in which he strikes the drum shows whether he likes or dislikes the performance, but he always does it according to the beat provided by the vocalists' \"phách\" percussion.\n\nThe number of ca tru melodies is 56, they are called .\n\nNew observers to the art often comment on how strikingly odd the vocal technique sounds, but it is the vocals themselves that are essential in defining ca trù.\n\nCa trù literally translates as \"tally card songs.\" This refers to the bamboo cards men bought when they visited ca trù inns, where this music was most often performed in the past. Men would give the bamboo cards they purchased to the woman of choice after her performance, and she would collect money based upon how many cards she was given.\n\nScholar-bureaucrats and other members of the elite most enjoyed this genre. They often visited these inns to be entertained by the talented young women, who did not only sing, but with their knowledge of poetry and the arts could strike up a witty conversation along with serving food and drink.\n\nBesides these inns, ca trù was also commonly performed in communal houses or private homes.\n\nAlong with efforts made to preserve the genre, ca trù has been appearing in much of recent Vietnamese pop culture, including movies such as the award-winning film \"Mê thảo: thời vang bóng\", \"Trò đời\", \"Trăng tỏ thềm lan\" , \"Thương nhớ ở ai\". The memory of anyone or in songs \"Một nét ca trù ngày xuân\", \"Mái đình làng biển\" by musician Nguyễn Cường, \"Trên đỉnh Phù Vân\", \"Không thể và có thể\", \"Chảy đi sông ơi! \", \"Một thoáng Tây Hồ\" by Phó Đức Phương, \"Chiều phủ Tây Hồ\" by Phú Quang, \"Hà Nội linh thiêng hào hoa\" by Lê Mây, \"Đất nước lời ru\" by Phan Huỳnh Điểu\", \"Nắng có còn xuân\" by Đức Trí\", Giọt sương bay lên\" by Nguyễn Vĩnh Tiến... In 1997 year, for the first time \"Trên đỉnh Phù Vân\" was made public by singer Mỹ Linh. Contemporary folk sound, with the up and down sounds never easy for a soft musician, so choosing this song to sing was a very brave decision of the Mỹ Linh in the early days of her career. The way to deal with the color of ca trù is probably intended to bring out the magic in every song.\n\nBích Câu Đạo Quán Club, founded in low has 90 members, 30 or 40 of whom gather on a given Saturday evenings. The oldest artist is 88 years old. According to the director, 48 -year-old Nguyễn Vân Mai, who trains younger singers and introduces them to classical songs: \"It is very difficult to find young singers who wish to learn this art form. It is also difficult to find good teachers who can convey both the enthusiasm and the technical knowledge.\n\nOn February 23, 2020, Google celebrated the Ca Trù's Founder Commemoration Day with a Google Doodle.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893040", "title": "New Road, Worcester", "text": "New Road, Worcester\n\nNew Road is a cricket ground in the English city of Worcester. It has been the home ground of Worcestershire County Cricket Club since 1896. Since October 2017 the ground has been known for sponsorship purposes as Blackfinch New Road following a five-year sponsorship arrangement with Blackfinch Investments.\n\nThe ground is situated in central Worcester, on the west bank of the River Severn, overlooked by Worcester Cathedral on the opposite bank. Immediately to the northwest is a road called New Road, part of the A44, hence the name. To the northwest is Cripplegate Park.\n\nUntil 1976, the ground was owned by the Dean and Chapter of Worcester Cathedral. The capacity of the ground is 4,500, small by first-class standards.\n\nThere is a small cricket shop located just outside the ground, selling cricket equipment, clothing, books and accessories. This shop opened in July 2008, replacing a long-standing older shop inside the ground. The shop also contains the administrative office for ticket sales and enquiries.\n\nThe ground is often flooded in winter by the nearby river, and was severely affected by the floods of July 2007, leading to the cancellation of several matches, and losses that were estimated to take nine years to recoup.\n\nElton John performed at Worcester Cricket Ground in June 2006.\n\nNew Road has hosted three men's One Day Internationals: one in the 1983 World Cup, when Gordon Greenidge scored 105 not out (the only ever men's international century at the ground) to take the West Indies to an eight-wicket victory over Zimbabwe; and two in the 1999 World Cup: a six-wicket victory for Australia over Scotland and a four-wicket victory for Sri Lanka over Zimbabwe.\n\nThe ground has also seen nine Women's Test matches between 1951 and 2009, including the England Women's decisive victory during the 2005 Ashes, in which Katherine Brunt scored 52 and took match figures of 9/111; Brunt also took a first-innings 6/69 in the 2009 Ashes Test at Worcester, which was drawn. It has staged two Women's ODI in 2000 and 2019.\n\nThe England Lions (formerly England A) played a four-day match against the Australian touring side at New Road in 2009; in a drawn match, Mike Hussey (150) and Marcus North (191 not out) made runs, while Worcestershire's Stephen Moore responded with 120; Brett Lee took 6/76.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893047", "title": "Duchouquet Township, Auglaize County, Ohio", "text": "Duchouquet Township, Auglaize County, Ohio\n\nDuchouquet Township is one of the fourteen townships of Auglaize County, Ohio, United States. The 2010 census found 14,499 people in the township.\n\nLocated in the northern part of the county, it borders the following townships:\n\nMost of Wapakoneta, the largest city and county seat of Auglaize County, is located in southwestern Duchouquet Township, and the village of Cridersville is located in the township's northeast.\n\nDuchouquet Township is the largest township in the county, containing forty-two whole sections, for a total area of . It is the largest township in the county, both in population and in area. The Auglaize River flows through the township.\n\nNamed for Francis Duchoquet, a French trapper who lived with local Shawnees, it is the only Duchouquet Township statewide.\n\nA significant Council House was built in the area by the Shawnee, who arrived in the area after the Miami were forced out in the 1780s. This structure was a meeting place for the most prominent Native American leaders in the region, such as Blue Jacket, Chief Logan, Little Turtle, and Tecumseh. Meanwhile, the township was also the site of an early Quaker mission.\n\nDuchouquet Township was formed on March 4, 1833, while still part of Allen County. After the creation of Auglaize County in 1848, six square miles that had previously been a part of Shawnee Township in Allen County were attached to northern Duchouquet Township.\n\nThe township is governed by a three-member board of trustees, who are elected in November of odd-numbered years to a four-year term beginning on the following January 1. Two are elected in the year after the presidential election and one is elected in the year before it. There is also an elected township fiscal officer, who serves a four-year term beginning on April 1 of the year after the election, which is held in November of the year before the presidential election. Vacancies in the fiscal officership or on the board of trustees are filled by the remaining trustees.\n\nThe entire township is in the Wapakoneta City School District.\n\nThe southern sections of Duchouquet Township are served by the Wapakoneta post office (45895), with the northern section being served by the Cridersville branch of the Lima post office (45806).\n\nMajor highways include Interstate 75 which crosses the county from north to south, passing through both municipalities, and U.S. Route 33 which sits on the township's southern border and passes through Wapakoneta.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893048", "title": "Mainau Declaration", "text": "Mainau Declaration\n\nThe Mainau Declaration is either of two socio-political appeals by Nobel laureates who participated in the Lindau Nobel Laureate Meetings, the annual gathering with young scientists at the German town of Lindau. The name denotes that these declarations were presented on Mainau Island in Lake Constance, the traditional venue of the last day of the one-week meeting.\n\nThe first Mainau Declaration was an appeal against the use of nuclear weapons. Initiated and drafted by German nuclear scientists Otto Hahn and Max Born, it was circulated at the 5th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting (11–15 July 1955) and presented on Mainau Island on 15 July 1955. The declaration was initially signed by 18 Nobel laureates. Within a year, the number of supporters rose to 52 Nobel laureates.\n\nThe initial 18 signatories were:\n\nThe Mainau Declaration 2015 on Climate Change was presented on Mainau Island, Germany, on the occasion of the last day of the 65th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting on Friday 3 July 2015. It is an urgent warning of the consequences of climate change and was initially signed by 36 Nobel laureates. In the months thereafter, 35 additional laureates joined the group of supporters of the declaration. As of February 2016, a total of 76 Nobel laureates endorse the Mainau Declaration 2015.\n\nThe text of the declaration states that although more data needs to be analysed and further research has to be done, the climate report by the IPCC still represents the most reliable scientific assessment on anthropogenic climate change, and that it should therefore be used as a foundation upon which policymakers should discuss actions to oppose the global threat of climate change.\n\nThe following Nobel laureates have thus far signed the Mainau Declaration 2015 or expressed their full support after its presentation. 36 Nobel laureates (left column) signed the declaration on 3 July 2015 on the final day of the 65th Lindau Nobel Laureate Meeting; 40 agreed later on for their names to be listed as signatories.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893050", "title": "Crown of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother", "text": "Crown of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother\n\nThe Crown of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother, also known as The Queen Mother's Crown, is the crown made for Queen Elizabeth, the wife of King George VI, to wear at their coronation in 1937 and State Openings of Parliament during her husband's reign. The crown was made by Garrard & Co., the Crown Jeweller at the time, and is modelled partly on the design of Queen Mary's Crown, though it differs by having four half-arches instead of eight. As with Queen Mary's Crown, its arches are detachable at the crosses pattée, allowing it to be worn as a circlet or open crown. It is the only crown for a British king or queen to be made of platinum.\n\nThe crown is decorated with about 2,800 diamonds, most notably the Koh-i-Noor in the middle of the front cross, which was acquired by the East India Company after the Anglo-Sikh Wars and presented to Queen Victoria in 1851, and a 17-carat (3.4 g) Turkish diamond given to her in 1856 by Abdülmecid I, sultan of the Ottoman Empire, as a gesture of thanks for British support in the Crimean War. The Koh-i-Noor became a part of the Crown Jewels when it was left to the Crown upon Victoria's death in 1901. It had been successively mounted in the crowns of Queen Alexandra and Queen Mary before it was transferred to The Queen Mother's Crown.\n\nAfter the death of the king, Queen Elizabeth, known thereafter as the Queen Mother, did not wear the full crown, but wore it minus the arches as a circlet at the coronation of her daughter, Queen Elizabeth II, in 1953.\n\nIt was placed on top of the Queen Mother's coffin for her lying-in-state and funeral in 2002.\n\nThe crown is on public display along with the other Crown Jewels in the Jewel House at the Tower of London.\n"}
{"id": "1893054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893054", "title": "Anterior lobe of cerebellum", "text": "Anterior lobe of cerebellum\n\nThe anterior lobe of cerebellum is the portion of the cerebellum responsible for mediating unconscious proprioception. Inputs into the anterior lobe of the cerebellum are mainly from the spinal cord.\n\nWhen a person gets most of their calories from alcohol (chronic alcoholism) the anterior lobe can deteriorate due to malnutrition. This is known as anterior lobe syndrome, and it causes unsteady gait. \n\nIt is sometimes equated to the \"paleocerebellum\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1893056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893056", "title": "HMS Donovan (album)", "text": "HMS Donovan (album)\n\nHMS Donovan is the ninth studio album, and tenth album overall, from British singer-songwriter Donovan. It marks the second album of Donovan's children's music, after the \"For Little Ones\" portion of \"A Gift from a Flower to a Garden\". \"HMS Donovan\" is the second double album of Donovan's career, and was released in the UK only, in July 1971 (Dawn Records DNLD 4001 (stereo)).\n\nAfter the release of the 1970 album \"Open Road\" that Donovan recorded with the band of the same name, he and his bandmates embarked on an international tour, partially by boat. Intending to sail around the world for one year, Donovan became homesick and ended the tour early, returning to the UK where he married his longtime affection Linda Lawrence (once girlfriend of Brian Jones) in October 1970. When Linda became pregnant with their first child, Donovan began working to complete a children's album that would eventually contain recordings spanning from July 1968 to 1971.\n\nDonovan had started to conceive of this album as early as 1968. During a session with Paul McCartney that year, he outlined the start to the album by describing an echoey pump organ and a man shouting in Italian announcing a string of circus acts that would then fade out into \"The Walrus and The Carpenter\". He also played \"Mr. Wind\" and \"The Unicorn\" for McCartney, who had recently finished recording \"Blackbird\". A demo of \"Mr. Wind\" was recorded after the \"Barabajagal\" sessions in a lower register and without the voice effects. The original lyrics of the song were printed on the British version of \"Sunshine Superman\", four years before the release of \"HMS Donovan\".\n\nMore than half of \"HMS Donovan\"'s tracks are traditional folk songs, hymns, and classic poems for and about children, which Donovan set to original melodies. Many of the poems were from the book, \"One Hundred Poems for Children\" compiled by Herbert Strang. Other poems come from Lewis Carroll's \"Alice's Adventures in Wonderland\" and \"Through the Looking-Glass\".\n\nOf Donovan's original songs, most were newly written, many while staying on the isle of Crete and along other parts of Open Road's tour. \"Lord of the Reedy River\" was performed by Donovan in the 1969 film \"If It's Tuesday, This Must Be Belgium\". The album was produced by Donovan, save for \"Homesickness\", the record's sole electric rocker, produced by Mickie Most either from sessions in 1968 or 69, as Donovan and Most stopped working together after the \"Barabajagal\" sessions. Other songs backed by drummer John Carr and bassist Mike Thompson were recorded during the previous year's sessions for \"Open Road\".\n\nSome of the songs on \"HMS Donovan\" share melodies with other songs in Donovan's canon. \"Jabberwocky\" has an acoustic arrangement with the same melody as \"Celtic Rock\" from \"Open Road\". \"The Owl and the Pussycat\" and \"The Unicorn\" also have the same melody, but bootleg recordings suggest Donovan once sang these two songs together in a medley during late 1960s live performances. Sydney Carter's \"Lord of the Dance\" borrows the melody from the Joseph Brackett song \"Simple Gifts\". \"The Star\" is better known as \"Twinkle Twinkle Little Star\".\n\nDespite the inclusion of Donovan's minor hit \"Celia of the Seals\", \"HMS Donovan\" did not sell as well as his previous releases and did not appear on the UK charts. Epic Records refused to release the album in the US and Pye Records only put the album out on its subsidiary label Dawn Records in the UK. This prompted Donovan to reunite with his old producer Mickie Most to try to find a hit-making formula for his next album. The fact that sales were the lowest of Donovan's career at the time eventually lead to HMS Donovan becoming the most rare and sought-after LP of Donovan's catalogue; in the 21st Century a search of Ebay reveals that original LP copies of HMS Donovan often trade hands for $100 or more, normally selling for five or ten times the price of any other Donovan LP. Copies that contain the original poster insert are especially collectable. \n\nAfter this album's release, Donovan became involved in two films. First, he played the lead role in Jacques Demy's \"The Pied Piper\", which was released in the US on 25 May 1972. He also provided the English soundtrack for Franco Zeffirelli's \"Brother Sun, Sister Moon\", which was released in the US on 2 December 1972.\n\nIn January 1998, Beat Goes On Records reissued \"HMS Donovan\" (BGOCD372) on CD in the UK. The label Media Arte issued the album on CD in South Korea in 2009.\n\nSide one\n\nSide two\n\nSide three\n\nSide four\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893060", "title": "Castell-Castell", "text": "Castell-Castell\n\nCastell-Castell was a county in the Holy Roman Empire, ruled by a branch of the Counts of Castell. It was established as a partition of Castell-Remlingen in 1668, and it was partitioned between itself and Castell in 1709. It annexed the County of Castell in 1772, and was mediatised to Bavaria in 1806.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893063", "title": "Alex Munter", "text": "Alex Munter\n\nAlexander Mathias \"Alex\" Munter (born April 29, 1968) is the President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) of the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO), and a former elected official and business owner in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada.\n\nThroughout his career, Munter has been at the forefront of numerous social change initiatives.\n\nIn 2001, as head of the city of Ottawa's Health and Social Services Committee, he led the adoption of Canada's first big-city workplace and public place smoking ban on city council. The Ottawa by-law became a model for many other jurisdictions, including New York City, which invited Munter to present to its city health commission in 2002. While second-hand smoke prohibitions are now commonplace, Ottawa's regulations broke new ground and came only a few years after Toronto had been forced to repeal a similar by-law due to public protest.\n\nIn 2003, Munter was approached by Canadians for Equal Marriage, a coalition of churches, professional groups and citizen organizations, and was asked to be the group's National Co-ordinator. In that role, he led a successful national campaign in support of Bill C-38: \"Civil Marriage Act\", the federal legislation to entrench same-sex marriage rights in Canadian law.\n\nSince moving into health and social services administration in 2007, Munter has continued to be a national voice on important public policy issues like gene patenting, obesity, mental health and the future of health care.\n\nIn 2014, Munter spoke for the Children's Hospital of Eastern Ontario (CHEO) when the organization launched a lawsuit against a private company, Transgenomic, challenging the legality of gene patents in Federal Court in Canada. CHEO argued that genes and other segments of the human genome should not be subject to patents for commercial purposes. CHEO declared victory in 2016, when it secured the right to use the disputed genes for all public hospitals and non-profit labs and created a public access framework that could be replicated for other genes. Munter called it \"a historic day for Canada and Canada's health care system.\"\n\nIn 2012, Munter was appointed co-chair of a provincial expert panel on childhood obesity. Its 2013 report proposed a three-pronged strategy to reduce rates of childhood obesity: putting kids on the path to lifelong health, changing the food environment and building healthier communities. Recommendations included baby-friendly hospitals, better support for breastfeeding and restrictions on the marketing of junk food to children.\n\nMunter has also been a vocal advocate of improved access to mental health care and to champion the adoption of innovative technologies within Canadian hospitals, as well as is a frequent speaker on the future of Canada's universal medicare system.\n\nMunter's father emigrated from Germany to Montreal in 1966, his mother had arrived the year before. They met in a French class for immigrants, which his mother was teaching. His family then moved to the Ottawa region in 1977, and settled in the Katimavik-Hazeldean area west of the city. At age 14, Munter began publishing the \"Kanata Kourier\" from his basement as a monthly local paper for the suburban community of Kanata, Ontario. In four years, the paper had a staff of seven and a circulation of 10,000 in the town of 27,000. In recognition of his success in business, he received an award as \"Young Entrepreneur of the Year\" from then-Prime Minister Brian Mulroney in 1988.\n\nMunter was a City and Regional Councillor in Ottawa from 1991 to 2003. From 1997 onward, he headed the council committees responsible for health and social services with oversight of the city's $550 million human services budget. In that role, he led Council to adopt unanimously pioneering smoke-free regulations in 2001; helped open new child care centres, expand the number of child care spaces, and expand public health programs for children and youth; worked with provincial government to oversee the transfer of ambulance services and social housing to the municipal level; initiated Canada's first comprehensive public access defibrillator program; expanded long-term care for seniors; funded hospital expansions and worked with the Community Care Access Centre and community support agencies to improve at-home support services for seniors and people with disabilities.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013, Munter served as co-chair of the Ontario Healthy Kids Panel along with Kelly Murumets, president and CEO of ParticipACTION. The final report recommended starting kids on the right path from conception to birth, changing the food environment, and creating healthier communities.\n\nMunter was Executive Director of the Youth Services Bureau of Ottawa (YSB), one of Ontario largest accredited children's mental health agencies. He was also the Chief Executive Officer of the Champlain Local Health Integration Network (LHIN), the provincial government agency responsible for planning, integrating and funding health services in the Ottawa Region with an annual budget of $2.2 billion.\n\nMunter holds a Bachelor of Social Sciences degree from the University of Ottawa, a Master of Science degree in Behavioural Science from the London School of Economics and a professional designation as a Certified Health Executive (CHE) from the Canadian College of Health Leaders. After leaving city government, he was a Visiting Professor in the School of Political Studies at the University of Ottawa, teaching there and at Montreal's Concordia University.\n\nMunter became much involved in local politics in his role as editor of the \"Kanata Kourier\". He was frequently at odds with Kanata Mayor Des Adam. In August 1989, he sold his paper to Runge Newspapers Inc. for over $300,000 due to competition from the rival paper \"Kanata Standard\", but stayed on as publisher. In November 1989, Munter left the \"Kourier\" to focus on his ongoing studies in Political Science at the University of Ottawa.\n\nHe became a political reporter for the \"Ottawa Citizen\", but left to run as a candidate of the Ontario New Democratic Party in the 1990 provincial election, contesting the riding of Carleton. Munter placed third in this conservative riding, but received more votes than any previous NDP candidate in the area.\n\nMunter briefly returned to the \"Citizen\", then worked for the Spicer Commission on Canada's Future before re-entering politics to run for Kanata City Council against incumbent Bev Read. After winning the election, Munter quickly became a prominent member of the council. He pushed through an initiative to install condom dispensers in some municipal buildings. He also chaired the Kanata Police Services Board.\n\nIn 1993, he came out of the closet as the Ottawa area's first openly gay politician.\n\nThe following year, he ran for a seat on the Regional Municipality of Ottawa-Carleton representing all of Kanata. He easily won the seat against two other Kanata politicians.\n\nDuring his time in office, Kanata was in the midst of an economic boom centred on the high-tech industry. Munter's main concern was managing the area's rapid growth. He supported creating the amalgamated city of Ottawa, and was acclaimed to the new Ottawa City Council when it was created.\n\nHe also chaired the new city of Ottawa's health committee and, along with Medical Officer of Health Robert Cushman, worked to bring in Ottawa's no-smoking by-law.\n\nMunter was courted to run provincially or to challenge for the mayoralty against Bob Chiarelli in 2003, but instead took a hiatus from electoral politics. He became a visiting professor of Urban Studies and Communications at the University of Ottawa and resumed writing for the \"Citizen\". The federal New Democratic Party (NDP) approached him to run in Ottawa Centre in the 2006 federal election to succeed Ed Broadbent but Munter declined. Munter was the co-ordinator for Canadians for Equal Marriage, a group that campaigned successfully in favour of legislation to enshrine same-sex marriage in Canada.\n\nMunter is not a member of any political party now. Locally, the \"Ottawa Sun\" reported Munter campaigned for candidates from all the major parties including Conservative, Liberal, and NDP.\n\nOn February 13, 2006, Alex Munter announced his candidacy for mayor of Ottawa in the November 2006 municipal election. A 2005 poll by the \"Ottawa Sun\" had Munter as a front-runner, in a statistical tie with the incumbent Bob Chiarelli. Another public poll in April 2006 had Munter as the front runner with a significant lead over Chiarelli. Most polls made public in the early stages of the campaign showed Munter in first place, often by a small margin. A poll conducted between October 13 and 18 by UniMarketing and sponsored by Radio-Canada and \"Le Droit\", had Munter ahead by 12 percentage points at 44% of decided voters. Larry O'Brien was in second place with 32% and Chiarelli third (24%).\n\nOn election night, Munter finished second with 36.25%, behind O'Brien (47%) but ahead of Chiarelli (15.6%).\n\nMunter set out several key priorities in his mayor campaign: public safety, fiscal responsibility, local economy and public transit. He promised to limit tax hikes to the inflation rate. While he was a city councillor, he claimed he helped to bring in ten consecutive balanced budgets without any tax increases. His opponents claimed that the budget was balanced despite his votes to increase spending.\n\nHe said he planned to improve public transit in the city of Ottawa, to review the O-Train project and to fix possible irregularities regarding the contract with Siemens. Munter said that the project could have been significantly better than the existing proposal, and that the costs could have been reduced. He did his own proposal of the north–south line by proposing the removal of the Barrhaven and downtown sections. Funding released would have redirected for the development of a future east–west line.\n\nHe criticized outgoing mayor Bob Chiarelli on several occasions for proceeding too quickly on the project, without proper information and consultation. He also criticized the mayor for allegedly providing incorrect information about the project, including saying that there would be additional costs because of an announcement made by John Baird, President of the Treasury Board, that the federal government's $200 million contribution would be delayed until after the November election. After Larry O'Brien's election as the new mayor, the expansion project was completely cancelled by City Council on December 14, 2006.\n\nHe promised to improve safety on the city streets with an increase of the number of police officers. He supported, along with mayors from other cities, increased gun control and stricter measures for drug dealing. He also proposed to give an easier access to leisure activities for kids with lower recreational fees. He wanted the city of Ottawa to be environmentally friendly. In addition to improvements for the public transit system, he also promised to close two landfill sites situated on Carp and Navan Roads in which there were expansion requests by private firms despite opposition by citizens.\n\nMunter has won numerous awards from a wide range of organizations for his contributions to the community, including the Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, the Canadian Institute for Child Health, United Way/Centraide Ottawa, the Federal Business Development Bank, l'Association Canadienne-Française de l'Ontario d'Ottawa, Leadership Ottawa and the Ontario Association of Social Workers.\n"}
{"id": "1893067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893067", "title": "Willie Francis", "text": "Willie Francis\n\nWillie Francis (January 12, 1929 – May 9, 1947) is best known for surviving a failed execution by electrocution in the United States. He was a juvenile offender sentenced to death at age 16 by the state of Louisiana in 1945 for the murder of Andrew Thomas, a Cajun pharmacy owner in St. Martinville who had once employed him. He was 17 when he survived the first attempt to execute him, as the chair malfunctioned. After an appeal of his case taken to the US Supreme Court failed, he was executed in 1947 at age 18.\n\nIn 1944, Andrew Thomas, a pharmacist in St. Martinville, Louisiana, was shot and killed. His murder remained unsolved for nine months, but in August 1945, Willie Francis was detained in Texas due to his proximity to an unrelated crime. Police claimed that he was carrying Thomas' wallet in his pocket, though no evidence of this claim was submitted during the trial. \n\nFrancis initially named several others in connection with the murder, but the police dismissed these claims. A short time later, while under interrogation, Francis confessed to Thomas' murder, writing, \"It was a secret about me and him.\" He had no counsel with him. The meaning of his statement is still uncertain. Author Gilbert King, in his book, \"The Execution of Willie Francis\" (2008), alludes to rumors in St. Martinville of sexual abuse of the youth by the pharmacist. Francis later directed the police to where he had disposed of the holster used to carry the murder weapon. The gun used to kill Thomas was found near the crime scene. It belonged to a deputy sheriff in St. Martinville who had once threatened to kill Thomas. The gun, and the bullets recovered from the crime scene and Thomas' body, disappeared from police evidence just before the trial.\n\nDespite two separate written confessions, Francis pleaded not guilty. During his trial, the court-appointed defense attorneys offered no objections, called no witnesses, and put up no defense. The validity of Francis' confessions were not questioned by the defense, although he had no counsel at the time. Two days after the trial began, Francis was quickly convicted of murder and was sentenced to death by twelve jurors and the judge despite Francis having been underage at 15 at the time of the crime.\n\nOn May 3, 1946, Francis survived an attempt at execution by the electric chair. Witnesses reported hearing the teenager scream from behind the leather hood, \"Take it off! Take it off! Let me breathe goddammit!\" as the supposedly lethal surge of electricity was being applied. The portable electric chair, known as \"Gruesome Gertie,\" was found to have been improperly set up by an intoxicated prison guard and inmate from the Louisiana State Penitentiary at Angola. The sheriff, E.L. Resweber, was later quoted as saying: \"This boy really got a shock when they turned that machine on.\"\n\nAfter the botched execution, a young lawyer, Bertrand DeBlanc decided to take Francis' case. He felt it was unjust, and cruel and unusual punishment, as prohibited in the Constitution, to subject him again to the execution process. DeBlanc had been best friends with Thomas and his decision was greeted with dismay by the citizens in the small Cajun town. DeBlanc took Francis' case to the Supreme Court in \"Francis v. Resweber\", 329 U.S. 459 (1947), citing various violations of his Fifth, Eighth, and Fourteenth Amendment rights. These included violations of equal protection, double jeopardy, and cruel and unusual punishment.\n\nThe US Supreme Court rejected the appeal. Subsequently, Willie Francis was returned to the electric chair on May 9, 1947. He told reporter Elliott Chaze a couple of days prior to the execution that he was going to meet the Lord with his \"Sunday pants and Sunday heart.\" He was pronounced dead in the chair at 12:10 p.m. (CST).\n\nWillie Francis' life was the subject of a 2006 documentary, titled \"Willie Francis Must Die Again,\" written and directed by filmmaker Allan Durand. The film, narrated by actor Danny Glover, chronicles the full story of his case and the unprecedented court battle that followed his failed execution. Produced by regional film director/producer Glen Pitre, the film includes first hand accounts of Francis' original trial, interviews with Sister Helen Prejean, author of \"Dead Man Walking\", a book about the death penalty, and Gilbert King, author of \"The Execution of Willie Francis\" (2008); and cultural perspective provided by director Allan Durand.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893071", "title": "Hart, Austria", "text": "Hart, Austria\n\nHart () is the name of a village in Austria. It is part of the \"Gemeinde\" Lavamünd. It has an average altitude of 630 metres (2083 ft).\n"}
{"id": "1893079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893079", "title": "Battle Circus (film)", "text": "Battle Circus (film)\n\nBattle Circus is a 1953 American war film directed by Richard Brooks, who also wrote the screenplay. The movie stars Humphrey Bogart and June Allyson, and costars Keenan Wynn and Robert Keith.\n\nThe film is set in Korea during the Korean War. Bogart (in his only film for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) plays a surgeon and commander of Mobile Army Surgical Hospital (MASH) 8666 (shortened to \"66\" in the dialogue), with Allyson playing a newly arrived nurse. Despite initial obstacles, their love flourishes against a background of war, enemy attacks, death and injury.\nA young Army nurse, Lieutenant Ruth McCara (June Allyson), is newly assigned to the 8666th MASH, a mobile field hospital constantly on the move during the Korean War. Ruth's personal mission is to serve suffering humanity. She initially experiences an uncomfortable welcoming by the unit's hard-drinking, no-nonsense chief surgeon, Major Jed Webbe (Humphrey Bogart). Jed engages in a helicopter rescue of army casualties while under fire. He is a much-tried doctor by the continual movement of the outfit due to the changing battle lines. Responsible for the dismantling and re-pitching of the tent hospital is Sergeant Orvil Statt (Keenan Wynn), a former circus roustabout. \n\nAt first, Ruth is a bumbling addition to the nurse corps, but she attracts the attention of Jed immediately because of the needless risks she takes. Against her resilience, he continues with sequential passes. After seeing that he is beloved by the unit, she agrees to his advances. He later cautions her that he wants a \"no strings\" relationship. Ruth is warned by the other nurses of his womanizing ways, and that he is probably married. When she asks him if he has someone else back home, he refuses to answer, and they separate.\n\nWhen a young Korean child needs special care, Ruth entreats Jed to perform an open-heart operation, despite the reservations of the unit commander, Lieutenant Colonel Hilary Whalters (Robert Keith). Jed ends up saving the life of the child. Jed is a relentless taskmaster, demanding Captain John Rustford (William Campbell) to fly desperately needed blood supplies at night, even in the teeth of a fierce storm. After the helicopter lands safely, Jed goes on a binge, forcing Whalters to make his chief surgeon either straighten up or ship out. When a now more assured Ruth treats some North Korean prisoners, a frightened prisoner (Philip Ahn) with a concealed grenade is calmly disarmed by her soothing words and manner.\n\nAfter a North Korean advance forces the MASH unit to escape through enemy lines, the lovers are temporarily separated. When the unit's commander is wounded in an attack, Jed has to take command to lead the unit out of danger. Traveling cross-country, he sets out on a perilous journey, attempting to meet up with the nurses who have gone on ahead by rail to a preset rendezvous. Eventually the two caravans safely negotiate the battlefield, and Jed and Ruth are reunited.\n\nAs appearing in \"Battle Circus\", (main roles and screen credits identified):\n\nAccording to Richard Brooks (in an interview filmed for the 1988 \"Bacall on Bogart\" documentary), \"Battle Circus\" was originally called \"MASH 66\", a title rejected by MGM because the studio thought people would not understand the connection to a military hospital. The title of the film actually refers to the speed and ease with which a MASH unit, with its assemblage of tents, and portable equipment, can, like a circus, pick up stakes and move to where the action is. The film's technical advisor, Col. K. E. Van Buskirk, had commanded one of the first MASH units in Korea, and ensured that the MASH and aerial scenes were authentic.\n\nBrooks also noted that Bogart agreed to do the film because the script's humor, set in a story showing the tragedy of war, would make the film seem more realistic to an audience. Bogart was teamed with an old pal, Keenan Wynn and June Allyson who was also a friend. Allyson was initially afraid of acting with Bogart, but her recent roles in light romantic comedy had typecast her and she was encouraged by the studio to attempt more serious fare.\n\nIn retrospect, Bogart did not enjoy working on the film, the least of which was when he burned his left thumb, a scene that was left in the final production. His $250,000 fee was the sole compensation. Bogart told Brooks, a close friend, \"let's not make any more movies together.\"\n\nPrincipal photography took place on location in Calabasas, California, and Camp Pickett, Virginia, where MASH units trained. The aerial sequences with the Bell 47 helicopters were filmed there. The camp commandant offered the film crews use of the base facilities, including his house for the lead actors, after initial scenes were finished.\n\nThe film's sets were designed by the art director James Basevi.\n\nWhile commending \"Battle Circus\" for being a revealing and engrossing wartime drama, reviewers noted that the tepid love story distracted. The review in \"The New York Times\" read,\nBob Thomas of the Associated Press wrote: \"'Battle Circus' is a war story that has everything but a plot. The purpose of the film is noble enough: to show the operations of the mobile hospital units in Korea. This is done graphically and with a great deal of excitement. Unfortunately, the only semblance of a plot is a rather whimsical romance between Humphrey Bogart and June Allyson. It's a change of pace for Bogart, who is seldom required to be grim-faced and is actually likable. Little is required of Miss Allyson, but she displays moments of her unique charm.\"\n\nA retrospective review in \"TV Guide\" noted, \nAccording to MGM records, the film earned $1,627,000 in the US and Canada and $735,000 overseas, resulting in a profit of $265,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893083", "title": "Ingo Hasselbach", "text": "Ingo Hasselbach\n\nIngo Hasselbach (born July 14, 1967 in Berlin-Weißensee) is a German well known for being a former neo-Nazi. He is the author of the book \"Führer Ex: Memoirs of a Former Neo-Nazi\" (with Tom Reiss, also made into a movie directed by ), which has been translated into several languages. Furthermore he was co-founder of the German EXIT project, which helps people leave the neo-Nazi community. The project is modeled on a Swedish project with the same name.\n\nHasselbach's parents were two Communist-party loyal journalists. His mother was an editor at the ADN (\"Allgemeiner Deutscher Nachrichtendienst\", the former GDR's news service), while his father was employed at the broadcasting service in East Berlin. He was raised mostly with his grandparents. After graduating he began an apprenticeship to become a stonemason, but by 1985 he was subjected to legal censure because of rowdyism. His public appeal \"The wall must fall!\" brought him a prison sentence of nine months in 1987. In 1988 he joined the neo-Nazi community and was again legally censured for \"subversive activities\". After a first attempt to escape in August 1989 failed, he was detained again for three months until November 1989. Three days before the Berlin Wall fell a subsequent attempt to escape to West Germany succeeded.\n\nIn the years after German reunification he took a leading position in many right-wing extremist organisations, including the \"National Alternative\" (Nationale Alternative), and the \"Comradeship of Social-revolutionary Nationalists\" (Kameradschaft Sozialrevolutionäre Nationalisten). Then in 1993 he decided to break with the right-wing extremism community. By this point in time he had spent three years of his life in prison (one of the charges being for incitement to violence).\n\nHis acrimonious departure from the neo-Nazi community and the publication of his books, \"Die Abrechnung: Ein Neonazi steigt aus\" written with Winfried Bonengel in 1993 and \"Führer Ex\" written with Tom Reiss in 1996, caused his former comrades to send him a letter bomb disguised as a book, which package was opened by his mother, without however sustaining injury. Hasselbach then confessed his accumulated knowledge about the neo-Nazi community to the German Federal Criminal Police Office. He did not only incriminate others but also himself. In 1997 he was given a two-year suspended sentence for an admitted fire-bombing of a left-wing, alternative youth club.\n\nAfter 1995 he traveled quite often to the U.S. where he began to work as a journalist in the immediate aftermath of the Oklahoma City bombing, focusing on local extreme right-wing terrorism. This helped publicize the English version of his first book \"Die Abrechnung\", \"Führer-Ex\".\n\nHaving finished his second book \"Die Bedrohung - mein Leben nach dem Ausstieg\" (The threat - my life after the dropout) in 1996, Hasselbach lived for some time in the U.S. and the U.K. and campaigned publicly for the abolition of the death penalty and had numerous articles published in the news media on that topic. Following that period up until 2000 he worked together with Winfried Bonengel on the script for the movie \"Führer Ex\", with premiered in German cinemas at the end of 2002.\n\nToday Hasselbach lives in Berlin and works as a freelance writer and journalist. He lives together with German Photographer .\n\n"}
{"id": "1893089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893089", "title": "Public awareness of science", "text": "Public awareness of science\n\nPublic awareness of science (PAwS), public understanding of science (PUS), or more recently, public engagement with science and technology (PEST) are terms relating to the attitudes, behaviours, opinions, and activities that comprise the relations between the general public or lay society as a whole to scientific knowledge and organisation. It is a comparatively new approach to the task of exploring the multitude of relations and linkages science, technology, and innovation have among the general public. While earlier work in the discipline had focused on augmenting public knowledge of scientific topics, in line with the information deficit model of science communication, the discrediting of the model has led to an increased emphasis on how the public chooses to use scientific knowledge and on the development of interfaces to mediate between expert and lay understandings of an issue.\n\nThe area integrates a series of fields and themes such as:\n\nHow to raise public awareness and public understanding of science and technology, and how the public feels and knows about science in general, and specific subjects, such as genetic engineering, bioethics, etc., are important lines of research in this area. Professor of communication, Matthew Nisbet, points up the challenge, for example, in terms of the paradox of the success of science and engineering creating the conditions that have led to the trust or distrust of experts among certain populations and that the correlation appears to be more socioeconomic than religious or ideological.\n\nThe publication of the Royal Society's' report \"The Public Understanding of Science\" (or \"Bodmer Report\") in 1985 is widely held to be the birth of the Public Understanding of Science movement in Britain. The report led to the foundation of the Committee on the Public Understanding of Science and a cultural change in the attitude of scientists to outreach activities.\n\nIn the 1990s, a new perspective emerged in the field with the classic study of Cumbrian Sheep Farmers' interaction with the Nuclear scientists in England, where Brian Wynne demonstrated how the experts were ignorant or disinterested in taking into account the lay knowledge of the sheep farmers while conducting field experiments on the impact of the Chernobyl Nuclear fall out on the sheep in the region. Because of this shortcoming from the side of the scientists, local farmers lost their trust in them. The experts were unaware of the local environmental conditions and the behaviour of sheep and this has eventually led to the failure of their experimental models. Following this study, scholars have studies similar micro-sociological contexts of expert-lay interaction and proposed that the context of knowledge communication is important to understand public engagement with science. Instead of large scale public opinion surveys, researchers proposed studies informed by Sociology of Scientific Knowledge (SSK). The contextualist model focuses on the social impediments in the bidirectional flow of scientific knowledge between experts and laypersons/communities.\n\nThe scholarly debate on public engagement with science developed further into analyzing the deliberations on science through various institutional forms, with the help of the theory of deliberative democracy. Public deliberation of and participation in science practiced through public spheres became a major emphasis. Scholars like Sheila Jasanoff argues for wider public deliberation on science in democratic societies which is a basic condition for decision making regarding science and technology. There are also attempts to develop more inclusive participatory models of technological governance in the form of consensus conferences, citizen juries, extended peer reviews, and deliberative mapping.\n\nSocial scientists use various metrics to measure public understanding of science, including:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe nature of connections among different pieces of information in memory \n\n\n\nGovernment and private-led campaigns and events, such as Dana Foundation's \"Brain Awareness Week,\" are becoming a strong focus of programmes which try to promote public awareness of science.\n\nThe UK PAWS Foundation dramatically went as far as establishing a Drama Fund with the BBC in 1994. The purpose was to encourage and support the creation of new drama for television, drawing on the world of science and technology.\n\nThe Vega Science Trust was set up in 1994 to promote science through the media of television and the internet with the aim of giving scientists a platform from which to communicate to the general public.\n\nThe Simonyi Professorship for the Public Understanding of Science chair at The University of Oxford was established in 1995 for the ethologist Richard Dawkins by an endowment from Charles Simonyi. Mathematician Marcus du Sautoy has held the chair since Dawkins' retirement in 2008. Similar professorships have since been created at other British universities. Professorships in the field have been held by well-known academics including Richard Fortey and Kathy Sykes at the University of Bristol, Brian Cox at Manchester University, Tanya Byron at Edge Hill University, Jim Al-Khalili at the University of Surrey and Alice Roberts at the University of Birmingham.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893099", "title": "Eddie Gilbert (wrestler)", "text": "Eddie Gilbert (wrestler)\n\nThomas Edward \"Eddie\" Gilbert Jr. (August 14, 1961 - February 18, 1995) was an American professional wrestler and booker, better known by his ring name, \"Hot Stuff\" Eddie Gilbert.\n\nGilbert started wrestling in 1977 in the Memphis, Tennessee-based Continental Wrestling Association as \"Tommy Gilbert Jr.\" in honor of his father, Tommy Gilbert. In 1980, he and his father won the AWA Southern Tag Team Championship.\n\nHe spent a little bit of time wrestling in the World Wrestling Federation as an enhancement talent in 1982, before being promoted to mid-card status. He continued to work his way up the card when he was legitimately injured seriously in a car accident in 1983. He spent several months recovering before returning to the ring; upon his return, he stated on television that WWF Champion Bob Backlund had been a tremendous inspiration to him. Gilbert continued wrestling for the WWF until 1984.\n\nLater, he began making a name for himself as Eddie Gilbert in CWA in Memphis, Tennessee. He teamed with his father and Ricky Morton in those years. In addition, he formed a team with Tommy Rich as \"Fargo's Fabulous Ones\", an attempt by Mid-Southern (Memphis) to bury and still cash in on the fame attained by the previous incarnation of the Fabulous Ones, Steve Keirn and Stan Lane, who walked out of the territory after a dispute. They held the AWA Southern Tag Team titles in 1984 until dropping them to Phil Hickerson and the Spoiler (Frank Morrell). The duo would break up soon after, with Gilbert turning heel. The two had a brief but intense feud, which memorably began on television when the two were presented with a \"Tag Team of the Year\" award by announcer Lance Russell and two guests. Gilbert, unaware his former partner was at the taping, badmouthed Rich, then the International Heavyweight Champion, until Rich came out to confront him. Rich immediately got the upper hand, running Gibert into the steel ringpost several times, bloodying him in the process before the cameras went to a commercial. After the commercial break, Gilbert told Russell he wanted Rich to come back out so he could apologize to him in person, stating he was wrong for still being bitter about the break-up of the team, and was fueled by jealousy of Rich's championship title reign and new found star status. When Rich accepted Gilbert's apology, Gilbert suddenly turned on him and, in front of a stunned audience and a speechless Russell, rammed Rich's head into the ringpost, just as Rich had done to him moments earlier. Gilbert then made his way to Bill Watts' Mid-South territory.\n\nIn 1986, Gilbert went to work for Bill Watts at Universal Wrestling Federation, Eddie added the \"Hot Stuff\" to his name. He started a heel stable of wrestlers called \"Hot Stuff International, Inc.\" and he managed it and wrestled. His stable included Sting, Ultimate Warrior and Rick Steiner before they were stars. He was always a ladies' man and he stole Missy Hyatt from John Tatum in 1987, with his stable being renamed \"H & H International, Inc.\" He married Hyatt in 1988. Iceman Parsons and Dick Murdoch would also join his stable later on at different times as well. Sting would eventually leave \"Hot Stuff International, Inc.\" and feud with them.\n\nEddie also worked as a booker, who came up with the famous \"Battle of New Orleans\" angle in late-1987 involving Chris Adams, Terry Taylor, Sting, and himself. Following a match in which Taylor defeated Shane Douglas due to interference by both Gilbert and Rick Steiner, Adams told referee Randy Anderson of the interference. As Adams pleaded his case with Anderson, Gilbert and Taylor attacked him, and Sting eventually evened the sides. The angle eventually spilled outside the ring into the stands, and near the concession area, featuring a huge brawl involving beer kegs, chairs, trash cans, tables, popcorn machines and other objects. Gilbert was awarded Best Booker of 1988 by the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\". He would stay with the Universal Wrestling Federation until the Purchase from Jim Crockett Promotions\n\nFrom there, Gilbert worked in Alabama's Continental Wrestling Federation (CWF), where he reformed Hot Stuff Inc. Gilbert also served as booker, with Paul Heyman as his assistant. The CWF was broadcast nationally on the Financial News Network, and Gilbert's creative work was widely praised by wrestling journalists. However, Gilbert left due to conflicts with management.\n\nGilbert went to the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) -- which had purchased the UWF—and brought Hyatt, Heyman and his brother Doug Gilbert with him. Eddie teamed with Rick Steiner to feud with Kevin Sullivan and his Varsity Club. He also became involved in a feud with Ric Flair and Barry Windham in which he teamed with Ricky Steamboat and Lex Luger. Near the end of his stint there, JCP was renamed World Championship Wrestling, and Gilbert was featured in the first WCW video game.\n\nEddie left WCW in late 1989 and also divorced Hyatt. He went back to the independents where he could book again. He worked for the United States Wrestling Association (USWA) in Memphis (where he feuded with Jerry Lawler) and the Global Wrestling Federation (GWF), as well as Philadelphia's Tri-State Wrestling Alliance promotion. Gilbert also married Madusa at this time after having hit it off with Madusa on TWA promoter Joel Goodhart's radio show, but the marriage was brief.\n\nGilbert's most famous feud in the Memphis territory involved an angle between himself and Lawler in 1990. Eddie and his brother Doug were \"fired\" from the promotion, and in retaliation hit Lawler with their car and fled the scene. Numerous home viewers, fearing for Lawler, immediately called the police to report what they had just seen as a legitimate vehicular assault. Lawler had to inform the police what was going on and Lawler was forced to appear on television (while selling his \"injuries\") sooner than intended out of concern that Gilbert would have been legitimately arrested if he didn't show on TV that he was all right.\n\nGilbert quit the USWA in January 1991. The on air story was that he had chose to leave the promotion rather than be injured by Jim Cornette, Stan Lane, and Steve Keirn.\n\nDue to a pay dispute, Gilbert, along with his brother Doug (who wrestled under a mask as the Dark Patriot) left the GWF in 1992. Eddie Gilbert took with him the GWF North American Heavyweight Championship belt. He made a few defenses of the title in the USWA as the GWF World Heavyweight champion, despite being stripped of the belt and not being recognized as such by the GWF.\n\nHe wrestled in (and booked) the successor to Tri-State Wrestling.\n\nGilbert then returned to the USWA until early 1995 when he worked one night for Smoky Mountain Wrestling before traveling to World Wrestling Council in Puerto Rico to wrestle and book.\n\nIn 1993 he wrestled for NWA Eastern Championship Wrestling, where he again teamed with Doug. He also served as head booker, but gave up his position in September 1993 to Paul Heyman, who eventually took the company national under the name Extreme Championship Wrestling. He would have a feud with Terry Funk.\n\nIn early 1994, Gilbert sat down with Bob Barnett and conducted a filmed shoot interview titled \"Looking For Mr. Gilbert.\" Gilbert spoke openly about his life and career at a time when professional wrestlers rarely appeared on film out of character and almost never spoke publicly about the behind-the-scenes machinations of the wrestling business. The footage from the interview was later marketed on home video and sold through wrestling newsletters, as well as at independent wrestling shows, the first of its kind. \"Looking For Mr. Gilbert\" is now considered the first professional wrestling \"shoot video\", and in the decades since, countless professional wrestlers have conducted sit-down shoot interviews, most notably in RF Video's Shoot Interview series and Kayfabe Commentaries' YouShoot interview series.\n\nGilbert married wrestling valet Missy Hyatt in October 1987. The couple divorced in 1989. Gilbert was also briefly married to Debrah \"Madusa\" Miceli in 1992.\n\nOn February 18, 1995, Gilbert died of a heart attack in his apartment in Isla Verde, Puerto Rico. Ken Wayne and Jason The Terrible found Gilbert in his apartment. His father, Tommy Gilbert, stated that injuries to Eddie's chest and heart muscle had occurred in a serious car crash in 1983 and could have been a factor; Eddie's alleged use of painkillers since the accident could also have contributed to his heart condition. The Eddie Gilbert Memorial Brawl was held in his memory from 1996 to 1999.\n\n Notice the date of death listed as 2007 instead of 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893100", "title": "Zhang Tianyi", "text": "Zhang Tianyi\n\nZhang Tianyi, real name: Zhang Yuanding; 26 September 1906 – 28 April 1985) was a 20th-century Chinese left-wing writer and children's author, whose novels and short stories achieved acclaim in the 1930s for his satiric wit.\n\nZhang was born in Nanjing in 1906. Before the Second Sino-Japanese War, he worked as a teacher, journalist and minor official. His prolific literary career started out in the 1920s. By the early 1930s Zhang had joined both the League of Left-Wing Writers and Mao's Chinese Communist Party. During the war and after the establishment of the People's Republic of China, he continued to write and held various official posts, including the editorship of the literary journal \"Renmin Wenxue\" (\"People's Literature\").\n\nHis novels include \"Big Lin and Little Lin\", \"The Kingdom of Golden Ducks\", and \"The Secret of the Magic Gourd\".\n\nThe hostility of the Chinese Kuomintang regime meant that much of Zhang's writing had to be serialized in underground journals.\n\nThese are the first full editions of Zhang Tianyi's works:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893104", "title": "Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky", "text": "Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky\n\nThe office of Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky was created under the state's second constitution, which was ratified in 1799. The inaugural officeholder was Alexander Scott Bullitt, who took office in 1800 following his election to serve under James Garrard in 1799. The lieutenant governor serves as governor of Kentucky under circumstances similar to the Vice President of the United States assuming the powers of the presidency. The current Lieutenant Governor is Democrat Jacqueline Coleman, who has been office since December 10, 2019.\n\nas specified in Kentucky Revised Statute 11.400\n\n11.400 Duties of Lieutenant Governor.\n(1) In addition to the duties prescribed for the office by the Constitution of the\nCommonwealth of Kentucky, the duties of the Lieutenant Governor shall be as\nfollows:\n(a) To serve as vice chairman of the State Property and Buildings Commission as\nprescribed by KRS 56.450;\n(b) To serve as vice chairman of the Kentucky Turnpike Authority as prescribed\nin KRS 175.430;\n(c) To serve as a member of the Kentucky Council on Agriculture in accordance\nwith KRS 247.417;\n(d) To appoint one (1) member of the Public Officials' Compensation\nCommission as provided in KRS 64.742;\n(e) To serve as a member of the Board of the Kentucky Housing Corporation in\naccordance with KRS 198A.030; and\n(f) To serve as a member of Kentucky delegations on the following interstate\ncompact commissions or boards:\n1. The Southern Growth Policies Board as prescribed by KRS 147.585;\n2. The Breaks Interstate Park Commission as provided in KRS 148.225;\n3. The Falls of the Ohio Interstate Park Commission pursuant to KRS\n148.242;\n4. The Tennessee-Tombigbee Waterway Development Authority pursuant\nto KRS 182.305;\n5. The Interstate Water Sanitation Control Commissions as prescribed by\nKRS 224.18-710; and\n6. The Kentucky Mining Advisory Council for the Interstate Mining\nCompact as provided by KRS 350.310.\n(2) Nothing in this section shall prohibit the Governor and Lieutenant Governor from\nagreeing upon additional duties within the executive branch of the state government\nto be performed by the Lieutenant Governor.\nEffective: June 26, 2007\n\nThe role and powers of the Lieutenant Governor of Kentucky were altered by a 1992 amendment to the Constitution of Kentucky. Prior to that 1992 amendment to the Constitution of Kentucky the lieutenant governor became acting governor at any time that the governor was outside of the commonwealth. Lieutenant governors Thelma Stovall (1975–1979) and Happy Chandler (1931–1935) engaged in high-profile use of their powers as acting governor when the elected governor was out of the commonwealth.\nAlso prior to the 1992 amendment of the Constitution of Kentucky, the lieutenant governor of Kentucky presided over the Kentucky Senate, casting a vote only in the event of a tie. The 1992 constitutional amendment supplanted the office of President pro tempore of the Kentucky Senate with the new office of President of the Kentucky Senate as presiding officer and abolished the lieutenant governor's duties involving the Senate. As a result, the lieutenant governor has no ongoing constitutional duties, and his or her traditional use of the Old Governor's Mansion as an official residence has been phased out.\n\nCandidates for governor and lieutenant governor in Kentucky run together on party slates. This is the result of the same 1992 constitutional amendment; prior to that the candidates for both offices ran separately and, as a result, sometimes the two elected to those offices were not allies and did not work together. This was famously highlighted when then-Lt. Gov. A. B. \"Happy\" Chandler in 1935 and then-Lt. Gov. Thelma Stovall in 1978 called the Kentucky General Assembly into session to enact legislation that was not advocated by the governors at the time (Ruby Laffoon and Julian Carroll, respectively). In 1967 a Republican, Louie Nunn, was elected governor and a Democrat, Wendell H. Ford, was elected lieutenant governor; they served together in that way for four years.\n\nSome accounts also indicate that Kentucky's Confederate government had one lieutenant governor, Horatio F. Simrall, who was elected at the Russellville Convention in 1861. Simrall fled to Mississippi shortly thereafter.\n\n, eleven former lieutenant governors were alive, the oldest being Julian Carroll (served 1971–1974, born 1931). The most recent death of a former lieutenant governor was that of Wendell H. Ford (served 1967–1971, born 1924), on January 22, 2015. The most recently serving lieutenant governor to die was Thelma Stovall (1975–1979) on February 4, 1994.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893109", "title": "Tom Scott (musician)", "text": "Tom Scott (musician)\n\nThomas Wright Scott (born May 19, 1948) is an American saxophonist, composer, and arranger. He was a member of The Blues Brothers and led the jazz fusion group L.A. Express.\n\nScott was born in Los Angeles, California. He is the son of film and television composer Nathan Scott, who had more than 850 television credits and more than 100 film credits as a composer, orchestrator, and conductor, including the theme songs for \"Dragnet\" and \"Lassie\".\n\nHis professional career began as a teenager as leader of the jazz ensemble Neoteric Trio. After that, he worked as a session musician. He wrote the theme songs for the television shows \"Starsky and Hutch\" and \"The Streets of San Francisco\". He played the soprano saxophone solo on the No. 1 hit single \"Listen to What the Man Said\" by the band Wings. In 1976 he played the theme \"I Still Can't Sleep\" in \"Taxi Driver\". In 1982, he collaborated with Johnny Mathis on \"Without Us\", the theme to the 1980s sitcom \"Family Ties\". He also played the lyricon, an electronic wind instrument on Michael Jackson's \"Billie Jean\".\n\nScott was a founding member of the Blues Brothers Band, despite his absence in the two films, \"The Blues Brothers\" and \"Blues Brothers 2000\". According to Bob Woodward's account in \"Wired\", a biography of John Belushi, Scott left the band after their 1980 tour over a salary dispute. However, he reunited with Dan Aykroyd and the Blues Brothers Band in 1988 to record a few tracks for \"The Great Outdoors\".\n\nScott led the house band on two short-lived late night talk shows: \"The Pat Sajak Show\" and \"The Chevy Chase Show\". He was music director for the 68th Academy Awards in 1996, several Emmy Awards telecasts from 1996 to 2007, \"Ebony\"'s 50th Birthday Celebration, and the People's Choice Awards telecasts.\n\nHe has dozens of solo recordings for which he collected thirteen Grammy nominations (three of which he won). He has numerous film and television scoring credits, including composing and conducting the score for the movie \"Conquest of the Planet of the Apes\", and appeared on records by the Beach Boys, Blondie (\"Rapture\"), Grateful Dead, George Harrison, Whitney Houston (\"Saving All My Love for You\"), Quincy Jones, Carole King, Richard Marx (\"Children of the Night\"), Paul McCartney, Joni Mitchell, Eddie Money, Olivia Newton-John, Pink Floyd, Helen Reddy, Frank Sinatra, Steely Dan (\"Black Cow\"), Steppenwolf, Rod Stewart (\"Da Ya Think I'm Sexy?\") Steely Dan, Aja\n\nHe produced two albums for tenor vocalist Daniel Rodriguez. \"The Spirit of America\" has sold over 400,000 copies to date. Scott is also a member of the Les Deux Love Orchestra and has conducted over thirty symphony orchestras around the U.S. as music director for Rodriguez.\n\nOn June 25, 2019, \"The New York Times Magazine\" listed Tom Scott among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire.\n\n\nWith The L.A. Express\n\nWith The Blues Brothers\n\nWith the GRP All-Star Big Band \n\n\nWith Don Ellis\nWith Joan Baez\nWith Richard \"Groove\" Holmes\nWith Tim Buckley\nWith Robbie Williams\nWith Jimmy Webb\nWith Tom Waits\nWith Carole King\nWith Eric Carmen\nWith Lulu\nWith Juice Newton\nWith Alphonse Mouzon\nWith Dalbello\nWith Johnny Rivers\nWith Richie Havens\nWith George Benson\nWith Stephen Bishop\nWith Tina Turner\nWith Michael Franks\nWith Michael Bublé\nWith Peter Allen\nWith Eddie Money\nWith Barry Manilow\nWith Joe Cocker\nWith Neil Diamond\nWith Sara Bareilles\nWith Josh Groban\nWith Rickie Lee Jones\nWith Frankie Valli\nWith Barbra Streisand\nWith Billy Preston\nWith Rod Stewart\nWith Dan Fogelberg\nWith Aretha Franklin\nWith Donovan\nWith Art Garfunkel\nWith Glen Campbell\nWith Oleta Adams\nWith Peggy Lee\nWith Randy Newman\nWith Diane Schuur\nWith Oliver Nelson\nWith Thelma Houston\nWith Michael McDonald\nWith Bill Plummer\nWith Phoebe Snow\nWith Minnie Riperton\nWith Al Jarreau\nWith Richard Marx\nWith Joni Mitchell\nWith Howard Roberts\nWith Natalie Cole\nWith Bernie Taupin\nWith Deniece Williams\nWith Sarah Vaughan\nWith Helen Reddy\nWith Lalo Schifrin\nWith Olivia Newton-John\nWith Otis Spann\nWith Christopher Cross\nWith Boz Scaggs\nWith Ringo Starr\nWith Dolly Parton\nWith Gábor Szabó\nWith Bob Thiele Emergency\nWith George Harrison\n\n"}
{"id": "1893124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893124", "title": "To a Waterfowl", "text": "To a Waterfowl\n\n\"To a Waterfowl\" is a poem by American poet William Cullen Bryant, first published in 1818.\n\nThe narrator questions where the waterfowl is going and questions his motives for flying. He warns the waterfowl that he could possibly find danger, traveling alone. But this waterfowl is not alone; it is being led by some Power. As the waterfowl disappears out of the narrator's sight, the narrator reflects on God's guidance in his own life. The narrator is sure that God has led this waterfowl, and that the waterfowl had faith in the narrator. Now, the narrator's faith is strengthened. He knows that God is guiding him as well.\n\nAs the narrator sees God directing the waterfowl, the narrator is reminded of God's guidance in his own life. Through his observance in nature, the narrator is reconnected with his faith in God.\n\n\"To a Waterfowl\" is written in iambic trimeter and iambic pentameter, consisting of eight stanzas of four lines. The poem represents early stages of American Romanticism through celebration of Nature and God's presence within Nature.\n\nBryant is acknowledged as skillful at depicting American scenery but his natural details are often combined with a universal moral, as in \"To a Waterfowl\".\n\n\nThe inspiration for the poem occurred in December 1815 when Bryant, then 21, was walking from Cummington to Plainfield to look for a place to settle as a lawyer. The duck, flying across the sunset, seemed to Bryant as solitary a soul as himself, inspiring him to write the poem that evening.\n\n\"To a Waterfowl\" was first published in the \"North American Review\" in Volume 6, Issue 18, March 1818. It was later published in the collection \"Poems\" in 1821.\n\nMatthew Arnold praised it as \"the best short poem in the language\", and the poet and critic Richard Wilbur has described it as \"America's first flawless poem\". The narrator in George du Maurier's \"Peter Ibbetson\" calls it \"the most beautiful poem in the world\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1893126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893126", "title": "Juvenilia (EP)", "text": "Juvenilia (EP)\n\nJuvenilia is an EP released by American singer-songwriter Liz Phair in August 1995. The EP is essentially a single for the song \"Jealousy\" from the album \"Whip-Smart\", though this release includes a few songs recorded by Phair under her Girly-Sound moniker in 1991, namely \"California,\" \"South Dakota,\" \"Batmobile,\" \"Dead Shark,\" and \"Easy.\" \n\nThe EP also features a cover of the song \"Turning Japanese\" by The Vapors and a previously unreleased original song, \"Animal Girl.\" The E.P peaked at #78 on the U.S's The Billboard 200 Albums chart.\n\nAll songs written by Liz Phair unless otherwise noted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893134", "title": "Guelph Transit", "text": "Guelph Transit\n\nThe Guelph Transit Commission is a small public transportation agency that operates transit bus services in Guelph, Ontario, Canada. Established in 1929 after the closure of the Guelph Radial Railway Company streetcar lines, Guelph Transit has grown to comprise over 70 buses serving 28 transit routes.\n\nThe main terminus is located downtown at Guelph Central Station and at University of Guelph, with a smaller facility at Stone Road Mall and SmartCentres on Woodlawn Road. GO Transit buses and trains on the Kitchener corridor and Via Rail also stop at Guelph Central Station. Greyhound Bus service provides regional bus service as well.\n\nThe City of Guelph is located approximately west of Toronto. Nicknamed the Royal City (reflecting the House of Hanover, known in its native Germany as the House of Welf), Guelph's street railway operated from 1895 until 1939 along five routes. It was also the western terminus of the Guelph line of the Toronto Suburban Railway.\n\nBy the late 19th century, Guelph had become such a size that public transportation had pretty much become a necessity. Serious discussion concerning a street railway began in 1875, and the Guelph Street Railway Company was formed in 1877. The company failed to get a franchise for its proposed horse-car line, and the idea was abandoned.\n\nIn 1894, Guelph City Council granted a street railway franchise to local businessman George Sleeman for a term of twenty years, for which the Guelph Railway Company was incorporated in April 1895. Construction began immediately thereafter, using 56 pound rail. The initial route of the GRC was south along Woolwich Street, through the downtown and along Dundas Road, with a second line running from the Sleeman owned Silvercreek Brewery on Waterloo Avenue, to the Canadian Pacific and Grand Trunk (later Canadian National) Railway stations. Total distance of these two lines was approximately . Electrical equipment for 600 volt operation, three closed and two open cars were supplied by the Canadian General Electric Company. A stone car-barn and powerhouse were also built. The carbarn later served as the garage for the Guelph Transportation Commission buses until the 1970s, and still stands today at 371 Waterloo Avenue.\n\nSleeman operated a brewery on Waterloo Avenue and expected that his employees would travel back and forth to work on his system. He also built a skating rink and park behind his brewery.\n\nOperation began on September 17, 1895, with 20 minute service being provided between 5 am and 11 pm, Monday to Saturday. New lines were soon built including Suffolk, added in 1896, O.A.C (Ontario Agricultural College) in 1902 and York Road in 1911.\n\nThe Company's charter was extended in 1901 to provide for a line to be constructed to Hespeler, forming a loop line with Puslinch Lake.\n\nGeorge Sleeman continued to own the line until late 1902 when control passed to the Bank of Montreal and the Traders Bank of Canada. The name of the company was also changed to the Guelph Radial Railway Company, with authority to build lines to Mount Forest, Erin, Galt and Preston, but none of these lines were ever built. The City of Guelph was also authorized to acquire the company, which it subsequently did, with related legislation being passed in 1905.\n\nRidership doubled between 1902 and 1906 resulting in more rolling stock being purchased in 1906 and again in 1911. In 1903, the city of Guelph purchased the street railway for $78,000, which included eight miles of track, eight closed and three open cars.\n\nFreight service had been introduced in 1900 using a small four-wheel locomotive, with traffic being interchanged with the Grand Trunk Railway. This business increased to a point where in 1911 a new 27-short ton locomotive, #26, was purchased from Preston Car & Coach, along with two 2-truck 'Prairie' type streetcars, #60 and #70. In 1913, another 'Prairie' car, #80, was added with two more, #90 and #100, being acquired in 1914. The Prairie cars were in length and were double ended. All five 'Prairie' cars were transferred to the Toronto and York Radial Railway in 1925 and renumbered 151 to 155. A second freight interchange was added on Suffolk Street in 1915 and a connection was made with the new Toronto Suburban Railway line in 1917.\n\nBoth the Canadian Pacific Railway and Ontario Hydro made offers to buy the Guelph system. Ontario Hydro won out and took title to the Railway, under the name Ontario Hydro Electric Railways–Guelph District, on May 21, 1921. Some lines were rebuilt and some extended, and Sunday service began July 25, 1921. Seven single-truck Birney cars numbered 219 to 225 were acquired in 1922. These were built by Canadian Brill at the former Preston Car & Coach plant in nearby Preston, Ontario.\n\nThe first bus, a 29-seat Gotfredson, was placed in service in 1926 on Eramosa Road. This service was discontinued on October 31, 1927, due to significant losses, however, the service was reinstated the following year with a smaller bus. A second bus was used when streetcar tracks were under repair.\n\nOperating losses began to climb beginning in 1927. The Suffolk line was removed in 1929 due to its poor condition and the cost of rebuilding, being replaced by bus service.\n\nIn 1926, Ontario Hydro tried to sell the system back to the City of Guelph, but were refused. Finally, in June 1937, City Council recommended the discontinuance of the streetcars, September 30, 1937, being the final day of operation, buses replacing them the next day. In 1939, the Ontario Legislature passed an Act transferring the system to the newly created Guelph Transportation Commission (now called Guelph Transit). Electric freight service continued to operate until May 26, 1939.\n\nGuelph Transit has bus routes that cover the entire city. Sunday service was added in 2001, new routes were added over the last five years. Guelph Transit's garage and other city works moved from Waterloo Avenue to 12 Municipal Street in the 1970s . In the late 1990s, a new transit facility was constructed on Watson Road.\n\nOn June 20, 2007, Guelph Transit launched a web-based system known as \"Next Bus\". Global positioning satellites (GPS) technology and advanced computer modeling provide riders via the Internet, handheld devices (including Palms, Blackberries, and Web-capable cellular phones), or their telephones to receive accurate, real-time arrival and departure information. This system has proven frustrating to some Guelphites, as Guelph Transit has removed posted information on bus arrival times and a user standing at a bus stop without a cell phone has no way of determining when the next bus will arrive. Additionally, the system's predictions have been known to be wildly inaccurate.\n\nThe new system features web-based map displays with local streets and routes, and real-time information available on the web. It will also incorporate dynamic transit display signs at key locations around the city. One such sign is already in place at Stone Road Mall. However, the service is limited in that the time displayed is linked to the scheduled arrival on the applicable timetable, not the anticipated arrival based upon the current location of the bus.\n\nGuelph Transit added holiday service in 2007 as well as additional routes serving the south end of the city. Services on these routes (56, 57, and 58) were suspended in April 2008, and the 54 Arkell route was extended to St Georges Square in July 2008.\n\nIn 2009 and 2010 Guelph Transit and Dillon Consulting developed a new \"Transit Growth Strategy and Plan\" for transit and mobility services. In developing a long term vision for transit in Guelph, the system was analyzed from customer, staff, technical and policy perspectives.\n\nAs identified in the 2010 budget, Guelph Transit is modifying frequency and service hours in order to achieve targeted savings. These savings will be realized by shifting from a 20-minute service frequency to a 30-minute frequency in June, July, and August, making the weekday service schedules the same as Saturdays. Holiday service has also been cancelled for 2010.\n\nOn January 1, 2012, Guelph Transit launched a complete new system of routes and schedules to accommodate a growing demand for change within the transit system. The system includes new transfer points at Guelph Central Station and the University of Guelph. During peak service times, buses run on a 20-minute schedule. During non-peak service times, including Saturday and Sunday, service will continue to run on a 30-minute schedule. Guelph Transit currently holds a 1.6 out of 5 rating of its services from its customers as seen on their Facebook page.\n\nWork was underway to convert the Guelph Central Station and current Greyhound Bus Terminal into a Regional Transit Facility by 2014. The terminal opened up to Guelph Transit Buses in May 2012. The opening of the bus portion of the station was delayed from October 2011 to May 2012 to allow time for the renovations of the railway station building to be completed.\n\nAdditional renovations, with a $2.1 million budget, were completed in 2016-2017. The work also helped to preserve and restore heritage characteristics.\n\nThe following is an April 2017 summary of the operations: \"Guelph Central Train Station is a busy transit hub that accommodates Guelph Transit, GO Transit, Via Rail and Greyhound Canada operations. Each weekday, more than 5,000 passengers board Guelph Transit, to travel on one of the 15 different routes that operate out of the bus bays adjacent to the train station.\n\nIn September 2016, Guelph Transit began offering early morning shuttle service for those connecting with early GO Trains. The PRESTO co-fare cards can now be used through all of the hours of GO service in Guelph.\n\nIn September 2017, Guelph Transit realigned the bus routes and schedules around the 99 Mainline, which provides bus service every 10 minutes weekdays, every 15 minutes between Guelph Central Station and Clair Road and every 30 minutes from Guelph Central Station to SmartCentres on Woodlawn Road.\n\nMaps & schedules\n\nRoutes as of September 3, 2017:\n\n\n\n\nGuelph Transit, in partnership with the Central Students Association at the University of Guelph, operate several late night drop-off only routes from the University Centre once regular bus service has ended. This service is provided from September to April from Tuesday to Sunday, with the exception of winter break, reading week and statutory holidays.\n\n\nThere is also a Downtown-University Bus service where students can board at either University Centre or Guelph Central Station.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893137", "title": "Eustachy Stanisław Sanguszko", "text": "Eustachy Stanisław Sanguszko\n\nPrince Eustachy Stanisław Sanguszko (28 August 1842 – 2 April 1903) was a Polish noble (szlachcic), conservative politician.\n\nEustachy educated in Poland and Paris in 1859–1860. He studied law on the Jagiellonian University from 1862 to 1864. He sympathized with the insurgents of the January Uprising of 1863–1864 and took part in meetings in Goszcz. In April 1863 he traveled with a secret correspondence for the \"Hôtel Lambert\" to Paris, and stayed there until the end of the Uprising. From 1873 until 1901 member and from 14 October 1890 to 9 February 1895 Marshal of the National Sejm in Galicia. He was member of the Herrenhaus and member of the Austrian Council of the State from 27 October 1879. Successor of Kazimierz Feliks Badeni in the office of governor of Galicia from 1895 until 1898.\n\n\nHe is Prince Władysław Leon Sapieha's maternal uncle. So Prince Eustachy Stanisław Sanguszko is a 5th generation uncle of Belgian heir apparent's wife Princess Mathilde, Duchess of Brabant.\n"}
{"id": "1893141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893141", "title": "Sorus", "text": "Sorus\n\nA sorus (pl. sori/soruses) is a cluster of sporangia (structures producing and containing spores) in ferns and fungi. This New Latin word is from Ancient Greek σωρός (\"sōrós\" 'stack, pile, heap').\n\nIn lichens and other fungi, the sorus is surrounded by an external layer. In some red algae, it may take the form of depression into the thallus.\n\nIn ferns, the sori form a yellowish or brownish mass on the edge or underside of a fertile frond. In some species, they are protected during development by a scale or film of tissue called the indusium, which forms an umbrella-like cover. \n\nSori occur on the sporophyte generation, the sporangia within producing haploid meiospores. As the sporangia mature, the indusium shrivels so that spore release is unimpeded. The sporangia then burst and release the spores.\n\nThe shape, arrangement, and location of the sori are often valuable clues in the identification of fern taxa. Sori may be circular or linear. They may be arranged in rows, either parallel or oblique to the costa, or randomly. Their location may be marginal or set away from the margin on the frond lamina. The presence or absence of indusium is also used to identify fern taxa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893143", "title": "Anayama Nobutada", "text": "Anayama Nobutada\n\n, also known as Baisetsu Nobutada, was a Japanese samurai. He was the son of Anayama Nobutomo and a nephew of Takeda Shingen. He became famous as one the \"Twenty-Four Generals of Takeda Shingen\".\n\nHe fought for his uncle at the Battle of Kawanakajima (1561), the Battle of Mikatagahara (1573), and the Battle of Nagashino before defecting to the service of Tokugawa Ieyasu, aiding him in his campaign against Takeda Katsuyori. He was rewarded by Tokugawa with a fief in Shinano Province for his service, but was captured and burned to death by Takeda sympathizers soon afterwards.\n\nHe had one son, Anayama Nobukimi, who lived for just fifteen years, 1572 to 1587.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893169", "title": "Romano Pontifici eligendo", "text": "Romano Pontifici eligendo\n\nRomano Pontifici eligendo was the apostolic constitution governing the election of popes that was promulgated by Pope Paul VI in 1 October 1975. It instituted a number of far-reaching reforms in the process of electing popes. It set the maximum number of electors at 120 and restated in a more formal context the rule he had already instituted that cardinals over the age of 80 not participate in electing a pope.\n\nIn November 1970 in \"Ingravescentem aetatem\" Pope Paul had prohibited cardinals over the age of eighty from participating in a Papal conclave to elect a pope. This new apostolic constitution incorporated that rule in the context of setting out regulations for the organization of a conclave.\n\nIn March 1973, during a consistory to create new cardinals, Pope Paul had discussed plans to modify procedures for papal elections, including limiting the number of electors to 120 and adding as voters the patriarchs of the Eastern Rite churches, even if not cardinals, and the leadership of the Synod of Bishops. He abandoned all of those ideas except one, and in this apostolic constitution set the maximum number of cardinal electors at 120. When his 80-year-old limit had taken effect on 1 January 1971, there were 102 cardinals eligible to participate in a conclave. \n\nPope Paul also imposed strict regulations on the physical organization of a conclave, including a requirement that the windows of the Sistine Chapel be boarded up. Cardinals found the restrictions excessive during the two conclaves of 1978 and Pope John Paul II dropped them in his 1996 apostolic constitution \"Universi Dominici gregis\" (1996).\n\nPope Paul had been crowned in June 1963 following his election but abandoned the wearing of a papal tiara in November 1964. Nevertheless, in this apostolic constitution he wrote that a coronation would follow the election. His immediate successors John Paul I and John Paul II, chose not to be crowned and the latter made no mention of a coronation when he revised the election process in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893174", "title": "Mars Microspacecraft Missions", "text": "Mars Microspacecraft Missions\n\nMars Microspacecraft Missions are proposed cheap launch missions costing less than $50 million that can be carried out by the Italian Space Agency to Mars to research Mars, ranging from the use of one spacecraft to multiple constellations of mini spacecraft.\n\nUnder a study contract, the Italian Space Agency (ASI) developed the mechanical system concept for a Mars Microspacecraft to launch in a twin configuration on an Ariane V ASAP (Auxiliary Payload). As a member a multi-disciplined team, ASI developed the mechanical configuration and preliminary structure design for the spacecraft in two configurations, a probe carrier and an orbiter. The term microspacecraft was used in a Jet Propulsion Laboratory publication in 1981.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1893180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893180", "title": "KTCK (AM)", "text": "KTCK (AM)\n\nKTCK (1310 AM; \"SportsRadio 1310 The Ticket\") is a commercial sports talk radio station licensed to Dallas, Texas, which serves the Dallas-Fort Worth Metroplex (DFW). Its daytime power is 25,000 watts, which is reduced to 5,000 watts at night. The station's studios are located in the Victory Park district in Dallas, just north of downtown, and the transmitter site is in Coppell. The station is currently owned by Cumulus Media. KTCK's programs are simulcast at 96.7 MHz over KTCK-FM, licensed to Flower Mound, Texas.\n\nKTCK's current call letters and format only date back to 1994. However it is one of the oldest radio stations, including the oldest in Texas, having received its first broadcasting license, as WRR, in March 1922. In addition, prior to its first broadcasting license, WRR was issued an initial transmitting authorization in the summer of 1921, and the station evolved from even earlier work conducted by the Dallas Police Department.\n\nThe genesis of what would become WRR began through the efforts of local amateur radio enthusiasts belonging to the Dallas Radio Club, in conjunction with Henry \"Dad\" Garrett, who was Dallas' superintendent of police and fire signals. Inspired by activities at the New York City police department, Frank M. Corlett, a local district manager for the American Radio Relay League, approached the Dallas police about setting up something similar. A short notice in the December 28, 1920, edition of \"The Dallas Morning News\" stated that Corlett was developing a system in cooperation with Police Commissioner L. E. McGee which would be used to \"notify the near-by police of the escape of prisoners and to give a description of suspects fleeing from Dallas.\" In early February, it was announced that the plan was now operational, consisting of nightly transmissions between 7 and 10 o'clock. The primary outlet was Corlett's Special Amateur station, 5ZC, located at his home at 1101 East Eighth Street. Two alternate sites were included: Bennett Emerson's Special Amateur station, 5ZG, located at 3720 Wendelkin Street, and John Dorea's station, 5JG, at 117 West Twelfth Street. In early June 1921, it was again announced that the daily police bulletin transmissions had been inaugurated by Corlett and Emerson.\n\n\"Dad\" Garrett was also involved in the developmental work. Garrett had had an early interest in radio communication. In 1912, a fire broke out that was being dealt with by a majority of the fire department. Meanwhile, a second major blaze occurred, but because the telephone lines were down, there was a delay in alerting crews at the site of the need to deal with the second emergency. Radio was still an unperfected technology, but Garrett recognized its future potential for speeding up communication during emergencies. In May 1921, it was reported that he had installed on a fire truck a radio receiver constructed by Corlett and had successfully received transmissions sent by Emerson and Garrett's son, Charles Garrett.\n\nIn July 1921, Bennett Emerson sold his transmitting equipment to the city for $250, and it was installed on the second floor of the Central Fire Station at 2012 Main Street, where it came under the oversight of \"Dad\" Garrett. On August 5, 1921, a Limited Commercial license with the randomly assigned call letters WRR was issued to \"City of Dallas (Police and Fire Signal Dept.)\", which authorized transmissions on the wavelengths of 400, 450 and 500 meters (750, 667 and 600 kHz), for communication with \"Police and Fire Signal portable stations, general communication and broadcasting with amateur stations\".\n\nAn early review of the new station noted that in addition to broadcasting police reports, it had been used for a two-way conversation between the Chief of Detectives in Dallas and Houston. WRR soon expanded its offerings beyond police and fire reports. In mid-December, it ran a telephone line to the local First Baptist Church's auditorium in order to broadcast Dr. George Truett's Sunday services. By early February 1922 the station's daily schedule included entertainment programs, featuring sports reports and weather forecasts, plus piano, vocal and saxophone solos. \"Dad\" Garrett's assistant, Lynn B. Henson, took on the majority of the responsibility for running the station. \n\nFrom 1912 to 1927, the Department of Commerce regulated U.S. radio, and initially, there were no specific restrictions on stations broadcasting entertainment to the general public. The first formal standards were adopted effective December 1, 1921, which specified that broadcasting stations had to hold a Limited Commercial license that also authorized operation on the \"entertainment\" wavelength of 360 meters (833 kHz) or the \"market and weather reports\" wavelength of 485 meters (619 kHz). At the time this regulation was adopted a small number of stations already met the new requirements, although this did not include WRR, whose current Limited Commercial license did not have an assignment for either of the broadcasting wavelengths, and as of late January 1922 the station was reported to be broadcasting on 450 meters. In early February 1922, WRR was reported to now be on 360 meters, but it wasn't until March 13, 1922 that the station was issued a new Limited Commercial license that included an authorization to use both broadcasting wavelengths. For this reason the Federal Communications Commission (FCC) records generally list March 13, 1922, as WRR's \"Date First Licensed\".\n\nIn early April 1922, as WRR's focus turned toward general broadcasting, a second transmitter was installed, operating on 200 meters (1500 kHz) under the call sign of 5ZAQ, which took over the broadcasting of fire signals. The common use of 360 meters led to some unique cooperative experiments, including a June 1922 wedding where the three main participants were located at different radio station studios, with the groom broadcasting his responses over WRR, the bride's from WDAO (a short-lived station operated by the Automotive Electric Company), and the minister officiating through the \"Dallas Morning News\"' WFAA (now KLIF (AM)).\nAs additional broadcasting stations were established, the joint use of 360 meters led to the need to develop timesharing agreements between the stations to avoid interference. By early July there were five local stations — three in Dallas and two in Fort Worth — and an agreement was concluded which allocated timeslots for the period from 8:45 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. on weekdays, and from 11:00 A.M. to 10:00 P.M. on Sundays. Under this plan, WRR's weekday assignments included \"Weather forecast on 485 meters. Lecture and music on 360\" from 12:00 noon-12:30, \"Baseball, markets, music\" from 3:00-3:30, \"Police bulletins\" from 7:00-7:15, and music from 8:30-9:00. Its Sunday schedule consisted of police bulletins at 7:00 P.M., followed by a church service at 8:00. By the end of 1922, the number of broadcasting stations licensed in the United States had ballooned to over 500. WRR stood out as one of fewer than ten stations operated by a municipality.\n\nIn 1925, it was decided that the city could not afford the expense of operating a radio station, and WRR's license was allowed to lapse, leading to its deletion in late July. However, a committee of civic leaders, headed by Edwin J. Kiest, the owner of the \"Dallas Times Herald\", and George B. Dealy, President of the \"Dallas Morning News\", raised the funds needed to revive the station, which was relicensed in October. Beginning in the mid-1920s, WRR started accepting advertising. The station became financially self-supporting and began providing surplus funds to the city government.\n\nOver the years, the number of available transmitting frequencies was expanded. The Department of Commerce and, beginning in 1927, the Federal Radio Commission (FRC) worked to accommodate a growing number of stations, and WRR experienced a series of frequency reassignments. In late 1928, under the provisions of a major reallocation resulting from the FRC's General Order 40, WRR was assigned to full-time operation using 500 watts on a \"regional\" frequency, 1280 kHz. On March 29, 1941, implementation of the North American Regional Broadcasting Agreement resulted in all the stations on 1280 being shifted to 1310 kHz, which has been the dial position of WRR and its successors ever since.\n\nIn 1948, WRR launched an FM station, which was assigned the call letters WRR-FM. Initially WRR provided more popular programming, while the FM station featured classical music. In 1975, WRR became the first station in the Dallas/Fort Worth area to adopt an all-news format when it became affiliated with NBC's new \"News and Information Service\" network. It continued with this format even after NBC ended the service in 1977. The Dallas government eventually decided to sell WRR while retaining WRR-FM, so after nearly 57 years ownership of the station was transferred to the Bonneville International Corporation in early 1978.\n\nConcurrent with the station sale, the call letters were changed as the station became the first of several incarnations of KAAM when it was owned by the same company that owned KAFM (92.5 MHz). KAAM dropped the all-news format and featured a variety of musical formats.\n\nIn 1994, the station was sold to Cardinal Communications, which changed the call letters to KTCK and adopted a sports talk format as \"The Ticket\". The Ticket's original lineup consisted of Skip Bayless, Curt Menefee, Mike Rhyner and Greg Williams, Chuck Cooperstein, and George Dunham and Craig Miller. Bayless was the first host to inaugurate the station's sports format. \"The Hardline\" (now with Mike Rhyner and Corby Davidson) and the \"Dunham and Miller Show\" have been part of the station's offerings since the introduction of \"The Ticket\" format. The sometimes controversial station has posted strong ratings in the Dallas radio market, especially its top-rated shows. Formerly owned by Susquehanna Pfaltzgraff, The Ticket was purchased by Cumulus Media on May 5, 2006.\n\nOn March 6, 2006, the station announced that it would be the flagship affiliate of the National Football League's Dallas Cowboys radio network. This resulted in a 60% ratings increase as reported by the Arbitron rating service. However, on January 23, 2009, KTCK and the Cowboys ended their three-year partnership. On January 16, 2009, The Ticket along with the Dallas Stars issued a press release naming KTCK as the new flagship station for Dallas Stars hockey for five years starting with the 2009-10 season. In 2014, this was renewed for an additional five years.\n\nOn August 7, 2013, it was announced that Cumulus Media would take over operation of rival station KESN (\"ESPN 103.3\"), owned by the Walt Disney Company, through a long-term LMA (local marketing agreement), with programming on both stations remaining the same. As part of this transaction, it was necessary for Cumulus to divest one of its FM stations, due to limits on the number of stations an individual entity can control in a given market. The deal was to take effect once Cumulus completed the transfer of KTDK 104.1 in Sanger, which had been simulcasting KTCK, to Whitley Media. However, the FCC disallowed the Whitley Media transfer, labeling it a straw purchase in which Cumulus would remain the de facto owner of the station, so Cumulus instead surrendered KTDK's license for cancelation. On October 7, 2013, it was announced that The Ticket would begin simulcasting on 96.7 FM, a station which, as WBAP-FM, had been simulcasting WBAP News/Talk 820 AM. The change took effect on October 21, followed by the FM station changing its call sign to KTCK-FM. (WBAP is now rebroadcast on The Ticket's former simulcast spot, KPLX 99.5 HD2).\n\nSportsRadio 1310 The Ticket has won many awards over the years, including the 2007 Marconi Award for \"Best Sports Station in America\" at the National Association of Broadcasters' annual conference on September 27, 2007. The station and various shows have been Marconi nominees in the past, but this was The Ticket's first win. The Ticket was again recognized as \"Sports Station of the Year\", winning a second Marconi Award in 2013. The Ticket won its third Marconi Award for \"Sports Station of the Year\" in 2017. The Ticket was nominated as a finalist for NAB Marconi ‘Station of the Year’ regardless of format in 2018. The winner has not yet been announced.\n\nThe FX drama \"Justified\" made frequent use of the names of The Ticket personalities for supporting characters as writer/producer VJ Boyd is a former Dallas resident and an active fan of KTCK. Boyd continued this practice in his scripts for NBC's \"The Player\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893183", "title": "Buddy Landel", "text": "Buddy Landel\n\nBuddy Landel (born William Fritz Ensor; August 14, 1961 – June 22, 2015), better known as \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Landel, was an American professional wrestler born in Knoxville, Tennessee.\n\nLandel first became interested in professional wrestling when a friend of his sister, Lou Anne Smith, introduced him to Bob Orton, Randy Savage and Boris Malenko. Landel was an amateur wrestler in high school, but dropped out during his junior year. While he was training with Boris Malenko, Landel lived in an apartment with Olympian Bob Roop.\n\nHe started his career in 1979 in Bill Watts's Mid-South Wrestling. He also worked in International Championship Wrestling. He went to the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA)'s Jim Crockett Promotions in 1985 and joined manager James J. Dillon's stable. A wrestling card with a Landel-Ric Flair main event on July 31, 1985, drew an overflow crowd at J.S. Dorton Arena in Raleigh, North Carolina. (Landel often claimed this crowd broke Elvis Presley's attendance record at the arena, but this has not been independently confirmed.) He won the NWA National Heavyweight Championship from Terry Taylor at Starrcade '85 in Greensboro, North Carolina.\n\nLandel was set to win the NWA World Heavyweight Championship from Flair in 1985. However, Landel had a falling out with the management of Jim Crockett Promotions and left the company.\n\nLandel went back to the Tennessee area in 1986. With Bill Dundee, Dutch Mantell, and Jerry Lawler, he headlined the last sold-out show in the Mid-South Coliseum. He worked in the Alabama territories in 1987 and 1988. Landel at one time was managed by Andy Kaufman, Jim Cornette, and Jimmy Hart.\n\nHe came back to the NWA in 1990 and wrestled Ric Flair in a \"Battle of the Nature Boys\". He wrestled Flair in a \"Gauntlet match\" which aired on November 24, 1990. The storyline was dropped after three months because of Landel's drug problems. In early 1991, he was under consideration for membership in Alexandra York's The York Foundation.\n\nHe went back to the independents in 1991 and was going to wrestle \"Nature Boy\" Buddy Rogers for his Tri-State Title in early 1992 but the promotion folded before the match could happen.\n\nHe worked in Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW) in 1992 and in 1994-1995. There he became one of the main eventers managed by Jim Cornette. Buddy held the SMW Heavyweight Championship and the SMW Television Championship in 1995. He remained a heroic character until the promotion folded in late 1995. Landel and Shawn Michaels set a record house at the Knoxville Coliseum.\n\nAfter Cornette closed SMW, both Cornette and Landel went to the World Wrestling Federation. Working without a contract, Landel started working on December 5, 1995, the same day as Stone Cold Steve Austin, then known as The Ringmaster. He continued to use a very similar image to Ric Flair, even using Flair's early 90s WWF entrance music. He made his \"Raw\" debut defeating Bob Holly. He also defeated Matt Hardy and Chris Michaels. Landel wrestled Bret Hart in a WWF World Heavyweight Championship match televised on January 13, 1996. Landel suffered a serious injury out of the ring shortly after his debut tearing his right quadriceps, and was out of action for six months as a result. After his injury healed, he worked a few more WWF matches before leaving the company.\n\nIn 2005 he worked at NWA Rocky Top promotion in Knoxville doing color commentary with Tony Basilio.\n\nLandel was honored as Most Influential WWF/WCW Wrestler from Kentucky by the state's governor and made a Kentucky Colonel in 1990. On August 27, 2011 Landel was inducted into the Legends Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame.\n\nLandel's roots were English, Cherokee Indian and German. His 5th great-grandfather was Peter Shipe, President George Washington's baggage master. Upon the end of his service, Peter Shipe was given a land-grant in Knoxville by Washington for his service, and the family owned the land for 200 years until it was sold in 1980 by his grandmother, Agnes Luttrell Shipe, surviving wife of Thomas Samuel Shipe.\n\nLandel acknowledged that in 1985 he began abusing drugs, using them for 10 to 15 years. He hoped by talking about the rampant drug abuse in pro wrestling, that he could help newcomers to avoid the trials he went through. He also had some trouble with the IRS, but wrestling promoter Jim Crockett helped him pay the tax bill.\n\nHe was an active reserve police officer since 1998 and went through the Sabre Tactical School ran by Paul Castle. Buddy and his wife Donna were married for over 34 years. He had 3 daughters: Andrea, Celeste and Kolby. Landel had several grandchildren, including Nick Osborne, who was drafted into professional baseball in 2019.\n\nOn June 21, 2015, Landel was involved in a car crash. He was later released from the hospital and he returned to his home in Chilhowie, Virginia. His wife Donna found him dead the next morning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893189", "title": "National University of Patagonia San Juan Bosco", "text": "National University of Patagonia San Juan Bosco\n\nThe National University of the Patagonia San Juan Bosco (Spanish: \"Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia San Juan Bosco\") is a higher education establishment in Patagonia, southern Argentina. It was created on February 25, 1980, by law 22.713, as the merge of two national universities: the \"Universidad de San Juan Bosco\" and \"Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia\". It is named after San Juan Bosco, patron saint of the area.\n\nThe university has four schools - Engineering, Economy, Humanities, Legal, and Natural Sciences, spread over several cities in Patagonia: Puerto Madryn, Trelew, Esquel, Comodoro Rivadavia, and Ushuaia. The central faculty is located in Comodoro Rivadavia.\nThe University has 14,000 students, with 5000 in the main school.\n\nIn 2015, the university opened to the inhabitants of the Falkland Islands. The academic program was translated into English, language courses were designed and a system of special scholarship was established. Thus, National University of the Patagonia San Juan Bosco became the first Argentine university to extend their academic offer to Falkland Islanders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893192", "title": "I Am the Fun Blame Monster!", "text": "I Am the Fun Blame Monster!\n\nI Am the Fun Blame Monster! is the debut album of the band Menomena. It was self-released on May 20, 2003 and made available exclusively through online retailer CD Baby. The CD was re-released by FILMguerrero in 2004, and then again by Barsuk/FILMguerrero in 2007. A white vinyl LP was released by FILMguerrero in 2005 that featured an origami design by band member Brent Knopf and hand screen printing/assembly by band member Danny Seim. The original run was limited to 500 copies, which sold out. FILMguerrero re-released the LP in 2007 on 180 gram vinyl, but without the intricate packaging. The title is an anagram for \"The First Menomena Album.\"\n\nOn May 24, 2011, the album was reissued as a double album alongside a bonus DVD. The bonus material features 9 bonus tracks and rare footage of the band's appearances on Portland cable public-access television program \"The Sista Social Show\", a live performance at Portland's Meow-Meow and music videos for the album tracks \"Trigga Hiccups\" and \"Cough Coughing\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893197", "title": "Advent Shadow", "text": "Advent Shadow\n\nAdvent Shadow was a planned action-adventure game originally planned for the PlayStation Portable handheld as a side story of \"Advent Rising\" which ended up cancelled in January 2006.\n\nIt followed the story of Marin Steel, a mercenary pilot thrust into a saga of intergalactic proportions. In the midst of extracting herself from a hostile negotiation, Marin is interrupted by a planetary invasion led by monstrous aliens bent on human genocide. In her efforts to escape the dying world, she encounters young Gideon Wyeth, the protagonist of \"Advent Rising\", and together they find themselves swept up in a massive struggle against dire forces bent on the destruction of humanity.\n\nMajesco Entertainment suffered some financial difficulties, and due to the poor sale of \"Advent Shadow\"'s console predecessor, \"Advent Rising\", the game had been quietly cancelled in January 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893199", "title": "Bob Friend", "text": "Bob Friend\n\nRobert Bartmess Friend (November 24, 1930 – February 3, 2019) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball as a right-handed pitcher between and , most notably as a member of the Pittsburgh Pirates. A four-time All-Star, Friend was an integral member of the Pirates team that defeated the New York Yankees in the 1960 World Series. He played for the New York Yankees and New York Mets in his final season of . As of 2019, he still held Pirates records for career innings pitched and strikeouts. He is the first man to lead the league in ERA while pitching for a last place team.\n\nFriend was born in Lafayette, Indiana, and grew up in nearby West Lafayette. His father was an orchestra leader, and Friend studied piano seriously until age sixteen, about the time of his father's death. At West Lafayette High School, Friend was an all-state football halfback and an all-state pitcher on the baseball team, and also played basketball and golf.\n\nFriend's father and many other family members had attended Purdue University before he came of age, and Friend dreamed of playing college football for Purdue, as well as pursuing a baseball career. However, a high school shoulder injury led him to focus on baseball, and he signed a professional contract with the Pittsburgh Pirates. He enrolled at Purdue in the fall of 1949, but was ineligible for college athletics. Friend attended Purdue during baseball off-seasons for eight years, eventually earning a bachelor's degree in economics in 1957, and was a member of the Sigma Chi fraternity.\n\nEntering Pittsburgh's farm system in 1950, Friend pitched for the Waco Pirates minor league team in the Big State League, compiling a 12–9 record. He was then promoted to the Indianapolis Indians of the Triple-A American Association, where he finished the year with a 2–4 record. Pittsburgh Pirates general manager Branch Rickey was anxious to develop young players quickly, and moved Friend onto the major league roster at the beginning of 1951.\n\nIn 1951, Friend joined the Pirates to begin the season, making his first appearance on June 28 in relief, allowing two hits over two innings of scoreless work in an eventual 4-2 loss to the Cincinnati Reds. He totaled 149.2 innings that season, making 22 starts and 12 relief appearances. On August 15, he pitched his first career shutout, blanking the St. Louis Cardinals 7-0 on two hits while striking out three. He also managed to walk eight batters that day. He ended up with a 6-10 record and a 4.27 ERA. the Pirates posted a 64-90 record, finishing ahead of only the last-place Chicago Cubs.\n\nFriend began 1952 as Pittsburgh's number four starter. He opened the year with a shutout, striking out six Reds en route to a five-hit, 3-0 victory. He went 7-17 (NL third in losses) with a 4.18 ERA, allowing a respectable 9.0 H/9. The Bucs finished with a 42-112 record, their worst mark in 62 years.\n\nFriend went 8-11, 4.90 in 1953. For the first time in his career, he struck out more batters than he walked (66 K's to 59 walks). On June 15, he earned his second win of the seasons, striking out six Milwaukee Braves in a complete game, 10-inning five-hitter, a 3-2 victory. Pittsburgh finished 55 games out of first place, going 50-104.\n\nFriend made 35 appearances, 20 of them starts for the 1954 Pirates. He went 7-12 with a career-worst 5.07 ERA on the season. He defeated the Chicago Cubs, 4-0 in the back half of a doubleheader on September 14, allowing no walks and five hits while striking out five. In his next start, he earned a 1-0 win over the Brooklyn Dodgers by allowing six hits and no walks, whiffing three batters on September 19. Pittsburgh managed to improve their record by only three games, going 53-101.\n\nIn 1955 Friend posted a 14-9 record (NL fifth in wins, NL third-best .609 win percentage) and won the NL pitching title with an NL-best 2.83 ERA. 20 of his 44 appearances were starts, and he finished 16th in the NL MVP vote. His 6.0 pWAR also ranked him first in the league. He allowed 7.997 hits per nine innings pitched (NL sixth) with a 1.148 WHIP (NL third). His 50 defensive assists from the hill was the most in the league. On September 7, he struck out eight Cubs while allowing a single baserunner, a single to opposing left fielder Frank Baumholtz in a 2-0 win over Chicago. Despite his success, the Pirates still finished in last, at 60-94.\n\nIn 1956, Friend led the NL with 42 starts (in 49 appearances) and with 314.1 innings pitched. He was selected to his first all-star team and was the winning pitcher of the 1956 All-Star Game. He finished 12th in the NL MVP race. He went 17-17 (NL eighth in wins) with a 3.46 ERA. His 5.6 pWAR was good enough to rank second in the NL. He also racked up 166 strikeouts (NL third). On June 8, he struck out nine Cardinals in a complete game, 11-inning, 2-0 six-hit victory. The Pirates finished with a 66-88 record, six games ahead of the last-place Cubs.\n\nFriend again led the NL in starts in 1957, with 38, and in innings pitched, with 277. He compiled a 14-18 record with a 3.38 ERA (NL seventh). He registered a 1.231 WHIP (NL ninth), 143 strikeouts (NL sixth), and 17 complete games (NL second). On August 13, he pitched a two-hit victory, striking out five in a 6-0 victory over the Philadelphia Phillies. The team finished the year tied for last, at 62-92. Also this season, he earned his degree from Purdue University in Economics, a result of him having attended the school during the off-season for eight years.\n\nIn 1958 Friend was selected to his second all-star team, finish sixth in the NL MVP race, and third for the NL Cy Young Award. He led the league in wins, going 22-14 with a 3.68 ERA. In 274 innings, (NL third), he racked up a 1.314 WHIP (NL ninth), 135 strikeouts (NL fifth), and 16 complete games (NL fifth). He ranked fourth in the NL with 10 sacrifice hits. He won his first four decisions of the season, but only pitched one shutout all year, a 2-0 win against St. Louis on August 3. He allowed nine hits and struck out two. The Pirates finished the year at 84-70, second only to the NL pennant-winning Milwaukee Braves, by eight games.\n\nIn 1959 Friend led the NL in losses, going 8-19 on the season with a 4.03 ERA. He placed second in the NL with 12 sacrifice hits. He earned his first win of the season on May 28 (against seven losses) by shutting out the Braves 3-0, striking out five and allowing four hits and two walks. Pittsburgh finished mid-pack, in fourth place, nine games back with a 78-76 record.\n\nIn 1960, Friend made the all-star roster for the third time, leading the NL with 4.1 strikeouts per walk issued. He went 18-12 (NL fifth in wins) with a 3.00 ERA (also NL fifth). He posted a 5.6 pWAR (NL fourth), a 1.128 WHIP (NL third), and 183 strikeouts (NL fifth) over 257.2 innings (NL second). Of his NL third-best four shutouts, his best was probably on April 28, when he struck out 11 and allowed just four hits in a 3-0 win over the Phillies. The 95-59 Pirates finished seven games ahead of second place Milwaukee for the NL pennant. The Pirates defeated the New York Yankees in the 1960 World Series in seven games. Of Pittsburgh's three losses, Friend was on the hook for two, racking up a 13.50 ERA over his three appearances.\n\nFriend led the NL in losses for the second time in 1961, going 14-19 with a 3.85 ERA (his win total ranked him 10th in the league). He started 35 games (NL fourth), completing 10 and using 236 innings (NL 10th). He was undefeated through his first five starts (4-0, 3.20). This includes his start on April 19, when he defeated the Cubs, 4-1, allowing three hits and striking out seven. The Pirates regressed to 75-79, finishing a distant sixth in the eight-team National League.\n\nIn 1962, Friend went 18-14 (NL seventh in wins) with a 3.06 ERA (NL ninth) and a league-leading five shutouts. He had a 5.9 pWAR (NL fourth) with 13 complete games (NL ninth). His .984 fielding percentage at the position ranked him fourth in the NL. On opening day, April 10, he tossed a 6-0 shutout against the Phillies, allowing a walk with five hits while striking out five. On August 20, he blanked the expansion New York Mets, 2-0, whiffing six with two walks and four hits. Pittsburgh went 93-68, finishing in fourth place eight games behind the pennant-winning San Francisco Giants.\n\nIn 1963 Friend went 17-16 (NL ninth in wins) with career bests in ERA, 2.34 (NL third), H/9, at 7.9 (NL sixth), and WHIP, a 1.042 (NL fifth). He had a 5.8 pWAR (NL fourth). He defeated the Mets, 10-1 on June 1, striking out eight and allowing two hits. The run was unearned. At 74-88, the Pirates were the only non-expansion team to register a record below .500, placing in eighth.\n\nFriend completed 13 (NL ninth) of 35 starts (NL seventh) with three shutouts (NL 10th), posting a 13-18 record with a 3.33 ERA in 1964. As in eight of the prior nine seasons, he ranked in the NL top ten in batters faced and in innings pitched. He went the distance on July 15 in a 3-0 shutout over the Phillies, allowing seven hits and striking out four. The Pirates finished tied for sixth at 80-82, 13 games behind pennant-winning St. Louis.\n\n1965 marked the end of Friend's tenure in Pittsburgh, a season in which he went 8-12 with a 3.24 ERA over 34 starts. On July 23, he beat the Cubs 6-0, allowing a walk and two hits for his fifth win of the season. Pittsburgh closed out Friend's stay with a strong 90-72 campaign, seven games back of the Dodgers.\n\nFriend played one more major league season, splitting the year between the two New York clubs. He went 1-4, 4.84 with the Yankees and 5-8, 4.40 with the Mets.\n\nFriend wore #19 for the Yankees. After he was traded to the Mets, Fritz Peterson took over his uniform number.\n\nIn 15 full seasons with the Pirates, Friend finished 27 games below .500 on a team that went 1066–1285. Although never considered a Hall of Fame-caliber pitcher, with Vernon Law, especially in 1960, he was considered part of the best 1-2 combination in baseball, with Friend #2.\n\nIn 1957, Friend married Patricia Koval, a nurse in the office of the Pirates' team doctor. They have two children; son Bob Friend Jr. is a retired professional golfer who played on the PGA Tour.\n\nFriend served as controller of Allegheny County, Pennsylvania from 1967 to 1975. In 1976, he joined an insurance brokerage, eventually becoming a vice president. He was a three-time delegate to the Republican National Convention. He was a Freemason.\n\nFriend died unexpectedly at his home in O'Hara Township, outside of Pittsburgh on February 3, 2019 from cardiac arrest at the age of 88.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893203", "title": "Advent Rising", "text": "Advent Rising\n\nAdvent Rising is an action-adventure third-person shooter video game developed by GlyphX Games and published by Majesco Entertainment. The game was released on May 31, 2005 for Xbox and on August 9, 2005 for Microsoft Windows. Its story was created by Donald and Geremy Mustard and featured a script written by science fiction writers Orson Scott Card and Cameron Dayton; the full orchestral soundtrack was done by Tommy Tallarico and Emmanuel Fratianni. As of September 14, 2006, Steam began offering \"Advent Rising\" for download.\n\nMuch-hyped \"Advent Rising\" was the first in a planned trilogy which also saw the development of a game that would take place alongside \"Advent Rising\", called \"Advent Shadow\" for the PSP. Despite a large advertising campaign including promotion in cinemas, the game's retail performance fell far short of expectations. By the end of 2005, Majesco had completely revised its business plan to focus towards handheld games and canceled plans for future \"Advent Rising\" games.\n\nA five-issue spin-off comic book series was produced and ran from October 2005 to November 2006. Plans for novel tie-ins by Orson Scott Card never came to fruition. In June 2006, Donald Mustard posted a statement on the website of his new venture, Chair Entertainment, stating that he \"would be happy to finish the \"Advent\" series if the opportunity presented itself\", but confirmed he does not currently hold the rights to do so. In 2008, Novint announced they are adding Novint Falcon support to this game and will sell it as \"Ascension Reborn\" for the Novint Falcon only.\n\nThe game begins with Gideon Wyeth; the protagonist, escorting a group of human ambassadors from a space station to a meeting with an alien race called the Aurelians. At the meeting, the Aurelians tell the humans that they view them as gods and then warn them of another race of aliens called the Seekers who intend to destroy all humanity. Shortly thereafter, the space station is attacked by the Seekers. Gideon manages to board an escape pod and lands on the planet Edumea below.\n\nOn the planet, Gideon aids the Marines in their battle against the Seekers, but soon learns that the planet will shortly be destroyed by a meteor shower. The planet is evacuated, and Gideon accepts an invitation from the Aurelians to board their ship. After learning that humans have untapped mystical powers, he begins training with the Aurelians.\n\nAs Gideon is training, the ship is attacked by the Seekers. Gideon and some of the Aurelians evacuate to the Seeker vessel, though it is on a crash course with the Aurelian homeworld. Gideon and the remaining Aurelians find the planet overrun by Seekers. After liberating the planet, they travel to the Galactic Council to seek their help in combating the Seeker assault on humanity.\n\nWhen the Council calls the Seekers to explain themselves, a being materializes in the Council chambers claiming to be a “true” human and a god. The being, a Koroem, takes full responsibility for the human genocide and claims that it ordered the Seekers to exterminate humanity because they were physically imitating the Koroem.\n\nA battle ensues after the Koroem wounds one of the Aurelians, but it is ultimately killed when Gideon uses a previously unknown mystical ability. This opens a portal that Gideon is dragged into. He finds himself on an ice planet, where a horned creature dubbed \"The Stranger\" appears and says, \"Come with me, human. There is much to be done.\" It then beckons Gideon to follow.\n\n\nThe \"Advent Rising Soundtrack\" of the game was released on June 28, 2005, under record label Sumthing Else Music Works. The music was composed by Emmanuel Fratianni and Michael Richard Plowman, whilst the additional music and orchestrations were performed by Laurie Robinson and Tommy Tallarico.\n\nThe game's overall story was created by Donald and Geremy Mustard. The dialog and screenplay, however, was written by Orson Scott Card and Cameron Dayton. Card's influences are noticeable in the terminology which has been carried over from \"Ender's Game\". The terms \"vids\", \"Buggers\", and \"ansible\" are all references from his critically acclaimed novels (though the term \"ansible\" was coined by Ursula K. Le Guin, and was not actually added to the script by Card himself, but by Donald Mustard).\n\nFollowing its Xbox release, \"Advent Rising\" received mixed reviews from critics whose scores ranged from a high of 4.5 out of 5 (\"GamePro\") to a low of 5 out of 10 (\"EGM\"). Reviewer scores averaged at a 68 on both GameRankings and Metacritic, while user scores averaged at 7.5. The most common complaints were the large number of bugs which caused a range of problems including freezing. Another common complaint regarded the difficulty in using the flick targeting system.\n\n\"Advent Rising\"s visual design choice was noted by several reviewers, pointing out that the characters all appear fairly elongated, although it has been said that this was a deliberate stylistic choice.\n\nUpon the release of the PC version of the game a month after the Xbox counterpart, \"Advent Rising\" was slightly better received, earning a 72 on GameRankings, a 70 on Metacritic, and an 81 on Venting Gamer with user scores averaging at 82. Many reviewers felt that the month long delay had been put to good use as many of the glitches in the Xbox version had been fixed. Framerate was also improved, with slowdowns becoming rarer.\n\nA million dollars was offered in a contest via Xbox Live for the first player to find a set of hidden symbols spread throughout the levels of the game. On August 15, 2005, the contest was cancelled, due to concerns that there was \"no technically feasible solution that would allow the contest to continue in a fair and secure manner\". Majesco offered, as compensation to those players, the choice of two free games (BloodRayne 2, Guilty Gear X2, Psychonauts, Raze's Hell, and/or Phantom Dust) and an apology on its home page.\nAn avid comics fan, game creator Donald Mustard originally realized the story of \"Advent Rising\" in hand-drawn comic books. He revealed in a 2005 interview: \"With \"Advent\", from day one, we conceived it initially as a comic book itself. Back when I was getting out of high school, we were laying the foundation for \"Advent\". I drew the first several hours of what would ultimately become the game as a comic book.\" The release of the \"Advent Rising\" game was supported by a promotional one-shot comic book produced by DC Comics. The comic was written by Lee Hammock and drawn by Billy Dallas Patton as a direct tie-in to the action of the game. It was inserted free of charge within a handful of comic books published by DC.\n\nAnother comic book, this time a series, grew out of the partnership between Majesco Entertainment and 360ep, a young entertainment properties management concern founded by former Marvel Comics CEO Bill Jemas. The new comic series, \"Advent Rising: Rock the Planet\", was written by Rob Worley, with layouts by Arthur Dela Cruz, pencils by Cliff Richards, inks by Dennis Crisostomo, colors by Cris Delara, and letters by Simon Bowland. The comic was produced with oversight by Mustard and Jemas. This new series begins the franchise some ten years before the events of the game. It follows the adventures of Gideon, Ethan, and Olivia in their formative, teenage years. The first issue was published on October 26, 2005. The fifth and final issue was released on November 22, 2006.\n\nAn unofficial patch called \"Advent Revising\" for the game has been created to address a number of issues including subtitles, cinematic playback, cut content and various other fixes.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893205", "title": "Kajiwara Kagetoki", "text": "Kajiwara Kagetoki\n\n\"A prominent eastern warrior\", he supplied Yoshitsune with a number of ships after the Battle of Yashima.\n\nOriginally from Suruga Province, Kajiwara entered the Genpei War fighting under Ōba Kagechika, against the Minamoto. \n\nAfter the Taira victory at Ishibashiyama in 1181, he was sent to pursue the fleeing Minamoto no Yoritomo. Having discovered him, Kajiwara switched sides, leading his forces in another direction, and turning to Yoritomo's cause.\n\nThree years later, Kajiwara would lead the forces of Minamoto no Yoshitsune and Yoritomo into battle against their cousin Yoshinaka, and against the Taira. \n\nAttached to Yoshitsune's force, Kajiwara reported back to Yoritomo on Yoshitsune's actions, in order to satisfy Yoritomo's suspicion and distrust of his brother. In one particular episode related in \"The Tale of the Heike\", Kajiwara suggests, during the Battle of Yashima, that Yoshitsune equip the Minamoto ships with \"reverse oars\" should they need to retreat quickly. Yoshitsune responds with distaste to Kajiwara's advice, humiliating him by saying such an act would be cowardice. From that point until Yoritomo's death, the resentful Kajiwara did as much as he could to raise tensions between the brothers. His slander led Yoritomo, already suspicious of his younger brother, to eventually accuse Yoshitsune of plotting against the \"bakufu\", which then led to his exile and eventual death. \n\nEven after this, when the shogunate was successfully and firmly established, Kajiwara still caused tensions at court. He accused Yuki Tomomitsu of plotting against the Shōgun Minamoto no Yoriie; a number of members of the court tried to get rid of him, who eventually left for Suruga. The following year (1200), he was defeated and killed in battle along with his son Kagesue.\n\nKajiwara Heima, a senior retainer of the Aizu domain in the 19th century, claimed descent from Kagetoki. His formal name, Kagetake (景武) shares a character with Kagetoki's name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893210", "title": "Forensic Files", "text": "Forensic Files\n\nForensic Files, originally known as Medical Detectives, is an American documentary-style television program that reveals how forensic science is used to solve violent crimes, mysterious accidents, and outbreaks of illness. The show was originally broadcast on TLC, narrated by Peter Thomas, and produced by Medstar Television, distributed by FilmRise, in association with truTV Original Productions. It broadcast 406 episodes from its debut on TLC in 1996 until its final episode in 2011. Reruns shown on HLN were initially retitled \"Mystery Detectives\" before settling on the main title of the show in 2014.\n\nA version of the program was broadcast on Five in the United Kingdom, under the name \"Murder Detectives\". Most of the 400 episodes are also available on distributor FilmRise's YouTube channel.\n\nOn October 1, 2019, HLN announced it had greenlit a revival of the show, titled \"Forensic Files II\", which began airing on February 23, 2020. In light of long-time narrator Peter Thomas' death, the show is narrated by Bill Camp.\n\nThe show helped pioneer documentary style crime-science shows. The show's official website says it profiles \"puzzling, often baffling cases whose riddles are ultimately solved by forensic detection.\" The cases and people are real. Scientists and forensic experts in many fields are interviewed.\n\nNot every case is a crime. In some cases, the investigation reveals that the suspects are innocent, and that the death was an accident or a suicide. Several shows have profiled people who have been jailed for or convicted of a crime, and who were ultimately exonerated by forensic evidence. Other episodes have focused on accidents where consulted experts relied on forensic evidence in order to explain why the incident occurred, such as the 1987 King's Cross station fire and the 1993 Big Bayou Canot train wreck. Many of the accident investigation episodes were originally broadcast as a separate CourtTV program titled \"Extreme Evidence, \" but they are now re-run under the \"Forensic Files\" name, and are included in the \"Mystery Detectives\" re-branding\".\"\n\nAlthough \"Medical Detectives\" also showed episodes about how outbreaks of mysterious illnesses were tracked (such as Hantavirus and Legionellosis), most of them have been dropped in favor of episodes about criminal cases (and occasionally civil cases).\n\nNot every episode of \"Forensic Files\" was narrated by Peter Thomas, a well-known voice-over talent. Four special hour-long episodes (\"Payback\", \"Eight Men Out\", \"See No Evil\", and \"The Buddhist Monk Murders\") were narrated by Peter Dean due to a scheduling conflict. These episodes were originally broadcast on TLC in 2001 and all except for one (\"Eight Men Out\") aired for the first time on the HLN Network in 2016.\n\nEach episode had a new 'cast', including interviews with witnesses, investigators, and forensic scientists. Many of the world's most well-known forensic analysts have appeared on the show (often in more than one episode), including Henry Lee, Cyril Wecht, William M. Bass, Alec Jeffreys, Skip Palenik, and Richard Souviron.\n\nFor the dramatic recreations, \"lookalike\" actors and models resembling the main figures in the story were found through a casting company in Allentown, Pennsylvania, or through \"open\" casting calls in New York and other cities.\n\nForensic Files II is different in one respect: it does not show the faces of the people who are re-creating the situation. \"We don’t use dialogue in our recreations and [unlike the original series] we don’t shoot faces, like lookalikes or actors,\" Executive Producer Duffy said.\n\nThe program began on the TLC Network in April 1996 as \"Medical Detectives\". Old episodes of \"Medical Detectives\" now air on TruTV under the \"Forensic Files\" label. Overseas, the show airs under these two titles, and others, on various channels in over 100 countries. It is distributed by CABLEready.\n\nFor the first four seasons under the \"Medical Detectives\" name, the format of the show was generally the same as it would be in later seasons under its \"Forensic Files\" name, but there were slight differences. During the opening credits and after the title display of the show, the titles of the episodes appeared and they were each displayed distinctively. For example, \"The Disappearance of Helle Crafts\" depicted a jigsaw puzzle coming together that displayed a picture of Helle Crafts and this picture lead into the episode (under the \"Forensic Files\" name, this picture was replaced with another), and \"Raw Terror\" depicted the words in big red letters against a black screen. The titles were sometimes featured in a visual representation to accommodate the subject at hand. For example, \"The Southside Strangler\" depicted black and white buildings coming down the screen; the buildings were displayed there in order to represent the \"southside\" of wherever the crime happened in and Season 2's \"The Common Thread\" displayed the title through a use of small \"thread\" strands that dangled in full-view and formed the title. The re-enactment scenes for the first couple of seasons were displayed in black and white and an eerie music score with a tunnel-like echo voice was used in order to provide a more terrifying feel to the show.\n\nWhen CourtTV acquired the rights to the show for its fifth season, the decision was made to rename the show \"Forensic Files\" in order to emphasize the forensic science that was performed on the cases and connect it better with other documentary/reenactment crime shows with a similar title such as \"The FBI Files\" and \"Cold Case Files\". A new opening was produced for Seasons 5 and 6 (and a couple of Season 7) and it depicted footage from the first four seasons. The title display \"Forensic Files\" is depicted in big blue and red letters with a background light beaming across the \"Forensic\" part. This opening was later used for the \"Medical Detectives\" episodes, removing their original openings and distinctive title displays. Some episodes such as \"Raw Terror\" were never incorporated under the Forensic Files name due to CourtTV's desire to have the show focus on crime-related episodes in favor of simple accidental virus ones (episodes that focused on bank robberies and attempts at poisoning, but no murders were incorporated). \"Raw Terror\" (along with a number of episodes from the \"Medical Detectives\" era) can be seen online under its original format when they were aired as \"Medical Detectives\".\n\nIn Season 7, a newer (and more well-known) opening sequence was made with an entirely new theme song, providing a more techo-feel and featuring a new title format. The titles of the episodes are quickly scanned underneath the title displays. No footage from actual episodes is used and everything displayed is made exclusively for the opening. This opening was used on a number of rebranded Medical Detectives episodes; replacing the opening for Seasons 5 and 6 that was originally given to them. Episodes such as \"The Southside Strangler\" and \"Legionnaires' Disease\" can be seen with all three openings. Season 7's \"Reel Danger\" can be seen with two.\n\nBy Season 12, starting with the twentieth episode, the opening sequence was shortened entirely and as a result, just the title of the show is featured and the title of the episode was written beneath it.\n\nOn October 1, 2019, HLN announced it had acquired the broadcasting rights from Medstar Television to produce a revival of the series, with the first season consisting of 16 half-hour episodes. The new show is titled \"Forensic Files II\", and the first episode is scheduled to air on February 23, 2020 with Bill Camp serving as the new narrator.\n\nThe show takes a \"whodunit\" approach, making each case a mystery that needs to be solved. Every half-hour episode follows one case from its initial investigation until the suspect(s) conviction, acquittal, or some other legal resolution. Pathologists, medical examiners, police officers, detectives, prosecutors, defense attorneys, friends and families of victims or suspects (if their cooperation is given) are all interviewed about their roles.\n\nVideo footage of the lab tests is shot in a modernistic film noir style, in dark, moodily lit settings with odd, glowing colors. The crimes and parts of the investigation are re-enacted with actors in dramatic recreations. These recreations are indicated by a change to a \"filmized\" look, as is done with many crime re-enactment shows. These recreations sometimes include alternate versions of the crime, which are eventually disproven by the science. This technique would later be appropriated, in a modified form, by the CBS television series \"\"—essentially a fictionalized big-budget version of \"Forensic Files\". During the original run of the show as \"Medical Detectives\", eerie vocal music was matched with the recreations in order to create a frightening atmosphere. This specific effect was discontinued after the move to Court TV.\n\nFor privacy considerations, the names of some victims and their families are changed, and case evidence featured within the show is re-created in order to protect their true identities. That is unless consent is given by the persons who are being spoken to, the show is not allowed to use the family's (or families') real name(s).\n\nIn 2006, \"Forensic Files \"Advanced\"\" episodes aired, which had older episodes interspersed with \"Pop-Up Video\" style factoids about the cases which were then being featured.\n\nSometimes, another case is mentioned which is similar to the one being aired. For example: \"Cold Hearted\" on \"Freeze Framed\" and \"Past Lives\" on \"A Squire's Riches\". In another episode that involves DNA evidence, the name of a man shown on an older episode was mentioned again and this time he was revealed to have been the first person put to death in the United States based on DNA evidence.\n\nOn re-runs of episodes on HLN, an update of the case is given on the criminals that were alive at the time the episodes were aired (deaths, parole, release, etc.).\n\nPremiering just as the O. J. Simpson murder trial had focused attention on the world of DNA and forensics, \"Medical Detectives\" became a hit. It was one of the first of the popular forensic science shows. A few years later, Court TV acquired rights to broadcast the show and it quickly became the cornerstone of its primetime schedule, increasing its annual production run to 42 episodes. The show was retained after the network was renamed TruTV in 2008.\n\nThe show was so successful that, in 2002, NBC aired it as a summer replacement series, one of the first times in which a program produced for cable television was aired by a broadcast network in prime-time.\n\nIn 2009, truTV's sister network Turner Network Television (\"TNT\") began airing episodes in HD on Wednesday nights for the month of December.\n\nThe vast majority of the shows are in a half-hour format. However, some hour-long specials have been produced. Several of these have re-investigated famous cases such as The Norfolk Four, or even historic murders such as the Lindbergh kidnapping and the John F. Kennedy assassination.\n\nReruns were aired on Lifetime in the fall of 2011 under the \"Medical Detectives\" moniker. A year later, in October 2012, HLN began airing the reruns under the title \"Mystery Detectives.\" Beginning in January 2014, HLN switched to the \"Forensic Files\" title. On that network, it is increasingly being used to fill many time slots due to program cancellations by budget cuts. In fact, the program took up about 58% of the entire HLN channel each week. In June 2014, the program aired nightly from 2am through 5am on CNN, before being removed due to industry and viewer criticism, along with continuing international breaking news events, and replaced with a CNN International simulcast. Since November 7, 2015, HLN has retitled the program \"Forensic Files: Digital Details\" and aired episodes that did not air on the channel before. The show led HLN in ratings in early 2015.\n\nTruTV currently still holds the licensing rights to the Forensic Files name. The reruns were repackaged with a shorter intro, and (at the end of some episodes) updates on what became of the suspect(s) or parties involved since the final verdicts. (For example: At the end of the 1996 episode \"The List Murders,\" it is mentioned that John List, convicted of murdering his entire family in 1971 and sentenced to life in prison, died in 2008.) In late 2014, Investigation Discovery started airing episodes under the \"Cause of Death\" title. Reruns of the show also are carried over-the-air on Court TV, sister channel Court TV Mystery, AMGTV and in off-network syndication. In 2019 the entire catalogue of Forensic Files are available on Netflix and a \"Best of Forensic Files\" series is available on Amazon Prime.\n\nHLN advertised \"brand new episodes of \"Forensic Files\"\" intermittently since 2014, when the advertised \"new\" episodes are actually just old episodes that had never aired on the network before and were \"new\" to HLN. The advertisement of \"new\" episodes caused confusion, with some viewers taking to Twitter to ask the show's creator, Paul Dowling, if the show was going back into production. The show's narrator, Peter Thomas, died on April 30, 2016, five years after the program went out of production. Dowling stated that Thomas \"can't be replaced,\" thus eliminating any hopes of reviving the program. Despite this, the program was revived for an additional season for February 2020. Bill Camp was chosen to succeed Thomas as the show's narrator.\n\nIn 2004, Court TV released a limited number of episodes on DVD. As of June 26, 2009, Amazon.com says the DVD has been discontinued by the manufacturer.\n\nIn August 2011, TGG Direct released 8 DVD collections each containing 12 episodes. These collections include \"Historic Cases,\" \"Convictions Overturned,\" \"Death By Poison,\" \"Crimes of Passion,\" \"Kidnapping Cases,\" \"Medical Mysteries,\" \"Serial Killers\" and \"Sex Crimes.\"\n\nAs of February 2020, Netflix in the U.S. was streaming nine of the seasons; the last seven seasons were also streaming on Hulu. The latter also planned to stream Forensic Files II on its premium subscription service.\n\nThis basic cable offering has been reviewed infrequently by television critics. The \"Houston Chronicle\" compared it to an episode of \"Unsolved Mysteries\": \"A criminal story is told – the more bizarre the better; a mysterious element is introduced; and forensic experts solve the mystery. All that's missing is Robert Stack.\"\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" gave this review: \"Although \"Forensic Files\" ably extends this specialized field to the masses and deploys its slick reenactments effectively, its jarring voice-over is the overcooked antithesis of the meticulous science it depicts.\"\n\nThe new series, which aired two of its 16 episodes on February 23, 2020, uses the same formula as the original, though with a new narrator, Bill Camp. \"We are telling the same kinds of stories in the same way,\" Executive Producer Nancy Duffy said in an interview. Instead of hiring actors to play the fictional roles, however, the new series uses \"employees of CNN and HLN\".\n\n\"The Official Forensic Files Casebook\" was published in 2004. The book recaps and expounds on some episodes, explains how the show is produced, and details why some proposed episodes were turned down. In it, the show's Executive Producer/Writer Paul Dowling says he was inspired to create the show because he had been present in Philadelphia during the outbreak of Legionellosis in 1976, as well as by the murder of Helle Crafts. The CDC's legionellosis investigation eventually became an episode of \"Medical Detectives\", while the Crafts case was filmed as the program's pilot episode.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893219", "title": "Scholastic wrestling", "text": "Scholastic wrestling\n\nScholastic wrestling, sometimes known in the United States as folkstyle wrestling, is a style of amateur wrestling practiced at the high school and middle school levels in the United States. This wrestling style is essentially collegiate wrestling with some slight modifications. It is practiced in 49 of the 50 states in the United States. When practiced by wrestling clubs of younger participants, scholastic wrestling is better known as \"folkstyle\".\n\nAccording to an athletics participation survey taken by the National Federation of State High School Associations, boys' wrestling ranked eighth in terms of the number of schools sponsoring teams, with 9,445 schools participating in the 2006-07 school year. Also, 257,246 boys participated in the sport during that school year, making scholastic wrestling the sixth most popular sport among high school boys. In addition, 5,408 girls participated in wrestling in 1,227 schools during the 2006-07 season. Scholastic wrestling is currently practiced in 49 of the 50 states; only Mississippi does not officially sanction scholastic wrestling for high schools and middle schools. Arkansas, the 49th state to sanction high school wrestling, began scholastic wrestling competition in the 2008-09 season with over forty schools participating. Shortly after, Ocean Springs High School became the first school in Mississippi to have a high school team.\n\nThe history of scholastic wrestling in the United States is closely tied to the development of its college counterpart. The Eastern Intercollegiate Wrestling Association held its first tournament in 1905, which soon sparked many more wrestling tournaments for both college and university students and high school students. College and high school wrestling grew especially after the standardization of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) wrestling rules, which applied early on to both collegiate and scholastic wrestling (with high school modifications). More colleges, universities, and junior colleges began offering dual meets and tournaments, including championships and having organized wrestling seasons. There were breaks in wrestling seasons because of World War I and World War II, but in the high schools especially, state association wrestling championships sprung up in different regions throughout the 1930s and 1940s. As amateur wrestling grew after World War II, various collegiate athletic conferences also increased the number and quality of their wrestling competition, with more wrestlers making the progression of wrestling in high school, being recruited, and entering collegiate competition. Girls' scholastic wrestling has somewhat fuzzy roots, as girls from time to time would join boys' teams as early as the 1970s, and there have been established various private girls wrestling clubs throughout the U.S.. Most notable among these athletes was National Wrestling Hall of Fame inductee, Tricia Saunders. However, the first official, public-school all-girls wrestling team was formed in Brookline High School in Brookline Massachusetts by coach Dustin Carter; the team of 15 girls was formed in 1993 and became an official public high school team three years later. The first official U.S. Girls Wrestling Nationals was held 1997. Today, the various state high school associations continue to also host annual wrestling championships for individuals and for teams. At one time there could be no middle school wrestlers wrestling at the high school level, but today, middle school wrestlers can do this (according to procedures set out by their state association). In the past they could have had their wrestling eligibility taken away or other punishment. Generally, in all scholastic sports, when a middle schooler participates at a Varsity level, they can no longer compete in a Junior high or Middle School level (in that sport). \"NYSPHAA: NOTE: Students may be eligible regardless of age or grade if they have been approved through the State Education Department's Selection/Classification Program\".\n\nScholastic wrestling is regulated by the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS). Each state high school association has adopted its wrestling rules, with each making some modifications. Every high school is expected to practice wrestling at two levels: varsity and junior varsity, although wrestling at the freshmen (ninth grade) level is becoming more widespread. The NFHS generally sets the standard for weight classes for high school-level dual meets, multiple duals, and tournaments. In most states, high school wrestlers can compete at 14 different weight classes, ranging from to the Heavyweight division of up to . Other states have additional or modified weight classes such as the weight class in states such as New York, the and weight classes in states such as Montana, and the weight class in states such as Texas. Weight classes for junior varsity, freshman, and middle school teams may differ from state to state. Each state high school association that sanctions wrestling also has a defined weight-control plan that prohibits excessive weight loss and dehydration during the season. The plan would include at least a minimum 7 percent body fat for males and 12 percent body fat for females. These weight control plans include provisions for weight assessment by the school's athletics medical staff, and certification of the lowest allowable weight class with the team's head coach and the person that performs the weight assessment. Often, this is done online through the website of the state high school association or the National Wrestling Coaches Association (NWCA). After the date of certification, a growth allowance of two pounds in each weight class may be allowed in some states. Many tournaments offer an allowance of one or two pounds, allowing wrestlers to compete in a certain class if they are within the allowance of making the weight limit for that class. All of this is done in order to protect the wrestler's health.\nNWCA Official Weight Classes as of 2014-15:\n106, 113, 120, 126, 132, 138, 145, 152, 160, 170, 182, 195, 220, 285.\n\nThe high school wrestling season customarily runs from October or November to March. Regular season competition begins in late October or early November and continues until February. Post-season competition usually continues from February to March (depending on, if individual wrestlers or teams qualify for a regional, sectional, or state championship). Normally, wrestling teams from two different high schools would compete in what is known as a \"dual meet\". It is possible for there also to be a \"multiple dual\", where more than two wrestling teams compete against each other at the same event on the same day. For example, one high school wrestling team may face another wrestling team for the first dual, and then a third wrestling team for the second dual. Also, those two wrestling teams may compete against each other in a dual meet as well. High schools often compete in regional, city-, or county-wide leagues.\n\nDual meets usually take place on evenings during the school week, or on Saturday mornings, afternoons, or evenings during the wrestling season and begin with weigh-ins, shoulder-to-shoulder, at a maximum of one hour before the meet begins. Wrestlers may wrestle up only one weight class above the weight class that they are placed in, with some exceptions. If a wrestler fails to make weight, he either has to forfeit or weigh-in at a higher class. If a wrestler is suspected by a referee or coach of having a communicable skin disease, the wrestler can either be disqualified or provide written documentation from a physician that the skin disease is not communicable. If a meet physician is on-site, his or her judgment would overrule such documentation. Dual meets often feature one or two pound allowances, but in order to qualify for a league championship, wrestlers are required to weigh in without the benefit of a pound allowance (at \"scratch weight\") a certain number of times during the dual meet season. In all cases, after weigh-ins, the referee coordinates the random draw, which determines the sequence of weight classes for the dual meet. After the random draw, the referee will call the wrestlers from each team who have been designated as captains. One of the captains will call a disk toss. The disk will then fall to the floor and determine: 1) which team has the choice of position at the start of the second period and 2) which one of the team's members is to appear first at the scorer's table when called by the referee for each weight class. The wrestler-captain who won the disk toss may choose the even or odd weight classes. That is, he may choose the weight classes, from lowest to highest, that are numbered evenly or oddly. The first weight class chosen in the random draw is odd. Thus, the rest of the weight classes are even and odd accordingly. For example, if the 120lb weight class is chosen in the random draw, then the 120lb, 132lb, 145lb, etc. weight classes would be odd, and the 126lb, 138lb, 152lb, etc. weight classes would be even. This order would work in the traditional sequence until the last even weight class of 113lb. \nDuring a dual meet, both the junior varsity and varsity squads from the two involved schools compete against each other. The format of competition is as follows:\n\n\nOften, many high schools in the United States will compete in a tournament. This allows many schools to establish their rankings, not only for individual student-wrestlers, but also for high school teams as a whole (e.g., city, county, regional, sectional, and state wrestling championships). Tournaments are often sponsored by a high school or a state high school association and are held on Friday, Saturday, Sunday, or over any two days during the weekend. Admission is often charged to cover costs and make a small profit for the host. A tournament committee usually administers the event and after individual and team entries have been verified, the officials then determine the order of the matches (called \"drawing\") by certain brackets (e.g., brackets of eight, 16). The tournament officials when doing this drawing take into account each wrestler's win-loss record, previous tournament placements, and other factors that indicate the wrestler's ability. With that in mind, wrestlers who are noticed as having the most superior records are bracketed so that two top-ranked superior wrestlers in each weight class do not compete against each other in an early round. This is called \"seeding\". A tournament begins with weigh-ins, shoulder-to-shoulder, starting two hours or less before competition begins. An allowance of one pound is granted for each subsequent day of the tournament, up to a maximum of two pounds.\n\nWith the drawing and weigh-ins completed, wrestlers then compete in two brackets in each of the 14 weight classes. Often, a tournament host will field a \"house team\" composed of junior varsity wrestlers from competing schools when there are open slots in the brackets. Tournaments are usually either varsity or junior varsity competitions. If there are not enough wrestlers to fill up the bracket in a weight class in the first round, a \"bye\" will be awarded to a wrestler who does not have to compete against another wrestler in his pairing. After taking account the number of byes, the first round in each weight class then begins. Most high school wrestling tournaments are in double elimination format. The last two wrestlers in the upper (championship) bracket wrestle for first place in the finals, with the loser winning second place. In other words, a wrestler cannot place higher than third if he is knocked down to the lower (consolation) bracket by losing in the championship semifinals. This is largely the result of time constraints: one-day tournaments often last into the evening. If the winner of the consolation bracket were allowed to challenge the winner of the championship bracket in the championship, the tournament could continue well past midnight before finishing.\n\nDepending on how many places are scored, the consolation rounds would then commence, beginning among all of the wrestlers who lost to the winners of a certain round. For example, in tournaments scoring eight places, consolation rounds would begin with all of the wrestlers who lost to the winners of the first round matches. After the championship semifinals, the losers in the semifinals would be cross-bracketed into the consolation semifinals. The winner of the consolation finals would then win third place, with the loser winning fourth place. In tournaments where six places are awarded, the losers of the consolation semifinals would wrestle for fifth place, with the loser winning sixth place. If eight places are awarded, the losers of the consolation quarterfinals would wrestle for seventh place, with the loser winning eighth place, and so on. After the championships finals, the awards ceremony usually takes place with plaques, medals, trophies, or other awards given to the individual and team winners with the highest placements. Precise rules for tournaments may vary from one event to the next.\n\nFor tournaments too large to properly accommodate all wrestlers, some host schools will implement a \"carry-over\" bracket system in order to finish a tournament within the standard time restrictions of a few days. In said tournament, a wrestler will advance into the consolation bracket only if the winning opponent successfully advances into the finals. In the first few rounds of the tournament, a single-elimination-type method is implemented. For example, if a wrestler goes to a 64-person tournament, he or she must win at least one match before losing. Upon the loss, the winning opponent will advance until he or she reaches the finals. Only those wrestlers who advance to the round before the quarter finals and those who have lost to the wrestlers of the quarter finals may have a chance at placing in the tournament. If our said wrestler wins the first match and loses the second match. The second opponent must advance an additional three rounds before our wrestler will be guaranteed another match and opportunity to place in this tournament. The carry-over system allows for more matches and a better siphoning process for large-scale tournaments by allowing only the best wrestlers to advance and giving the best of the losing opponents a chance to place in the tournament as well. However, many complain about the carry-over system, as it doesn’t allow for those unseeded a fair opportunity in the tournament.\n\nEach state or geographic area features two or three \"elite\" tournaments every year. These events are by invitation only and are called \"Invitationals\". Tournament sponsors (which are usually high schools, though sometimes colleges and universities) invite the best varsity wrestlers from their area to compete against each other. Many elite tournaments last two or even three days. For this reason, elite tournaments are often scheduled during the school's winter break. One of the most elite and longest-running high school wrestling invitational in the nation is hosted by Eagle Grove High School in Eagle Grove, Iowa.\n\nBetween one season and the next, postseason tournaments and preseason tournaments are often held in scholastic wrestling and also in freestyle and Greco-Roman. The most active wrestlers often take part in those to sharpen their skills and techniques. Also, clinics and camps are often held for both wrestlers and their coaches to help refresh old techniques and gain new strategies.\n\nThe match takes place on a thick rubber mat that is shock-absorbing to ensure safety. A large outer circle at least 28 feet in diameter that designates the wrestling area is marked on the mat. The circumference line of that circle is called the boundary line. The wrestling area is surrounded by a safety mat area (or protection area) that is at least five inches in width. The mat area is designated by the use of contrasting colors or a line, which is in bounds as of the 2011-2012 scholastic season. The wrestlers are within bounds when the supporting points (the weight-bearing points of the body, such as the feet, hands, knees, buttocks) of either wrestler are inside this boundary line.\n\nThe mat can be no thicker than four inches nor thinner than a mat which has the shock-absorbing qualities of at least 1-inch (2.5 cm) PVC vinyl-covered foam. Inside the outer circle is usually an inner circle about 10 feet (3m) in diameter, designated by the use of contrasting colors or a line. Wrestlers are encouraged to stay within this inner circle or else they risk being penalized for stalling (that is, deliberately attempting to slow down the action of the match). Each wrestler begins action at a starting line inside the inner circle that is three feet long. Two one-inch lines close the ends of the starting lines and are marked red for the wrestler from the visiting team and green for the wrestler from the home team. The two starting lines are 12 inches (30 cm) from outside to outside and form a rectangle in the middle of the wrestling area. This rectangle designates the starting positions for the three periods. All mats that are in sections are secured together. Additional padding may be added under the mat to protect the wrestlers. For younger age groups, one mat may be divided into halves or quarters so that multiple matches may be staged on a single mat.\n\n\nA match is a competition between two individual wrestlers of the same weight class. The match consists of three periods totaling 4.5 minutes at the middle school level, 6 minutes at the high school level. with an overtime round if necessary if the score is tied at the end of regulation. High school matches are one minute shorter than college and university matches - not having collegiate wrestling's three-minute first period. Additionally, college wrestling uses the concept of \"time advantage\" or \"riding time\", while high school wrestling does not. Junior varsity and freshmen matches may be shorter than varsity matches in some states. Any differences in the length of time are explained by the fact that junior varsity and freshmen wrestlers are presumed to be younger, less skilled, and possibly in poorer shape than varsity wrestlers, though this may not always be the case. Period lengths vary for age groups below high school and are different from state to state.\n\nThe main official at the wrestling match is the referee, who is responsible for starting and stopping the match; observing all holds; signaling points; calling penalties such as illegal holds, unnecessary roughness, fleeing the mat, or flagrant misconduct; and finally observing a full view of and determining the fall. There can also be one \"assistant referee\" (especially at tournaments) that helps the referee with making any difficult decisions and in preventing error. Also, a scorer with assistant scorers are there to record the points of the two individual wrestlers. Finally, a match or meet timekeeper' may be present to note the match time, timeouts and work with the scorers.\n\nEach wrestler is called by the referee, reports to the scorer's table, steps onto the mat, and may put on a green (for the home team) or red (for the visiting team) anklet about two inches wide which the referee will use to indicate scoring. The referee then prepares the wrestlers to begin the first period.\n\nThe referee prepares both wrestlers for the first period by making sure each wrestler is correctly in the \"neutral position\". The neutral position has the two wrestlers standing opposite each other on their feet. Each wrestler starts with his lead foot on the green or red area of the starting lines, and his other foot even with or behind the lead foot. Both wrestlers then usually slightly crouch with their arms in front of them at or above waist level. In this position, neither wrestler is in control. When the referee is certain that both wrestlers are correctly in the neutral position, he blows the whistle to begin the first period (as well as whenever wrestling is resumed, such as at the beginning of the second and third periods, when contestants resume wrestling after going out of bounds, etc.). The match commences with each wrestler attempting to \"take down\" his opponent. There are various ways to accomplish this, such as taking a shot or completing a throw. The first period in high school varsity wrestling matches is two minutes long.\n\nIf the match is not ended by a fall, technical fall, default, or disqualification, the referee then prepares both wrestlers to begin the second period. After the first period ends, one wrestler will have the choice of starting position in the second period. In dual meets, this is determined by the colored disk toss that took place before the meet began. In tournaments, the referee will toss a colored disk, with a green-colored side and a red-colored side, and the winner of that disk toss will have the choice of position. The wrestler could choose between the neutral position, or to begin in what is called the \"referee's position\" on the mat. The referee's position has both wrestlers beginning action at the center of the mat with one wrestler (in the \"defensive starting position\") on the bottom with his hands spread apart in front of the forward starting line and his knees spread apart behind the rear starting line with his legs held together. The other wrestler on the top (in the \"offensive starting position\") then kneels beside him with one arm wrapped around the bottom wrestler's waist (with the palm of his hand against the opponent's navel) and the other hand on or over the back of the opponent's near elbow for control. The wrestler on the top must place his hand on the opponent's navel first, and then the elbow (this rule was recently instated in order to prevent the top wrestler's advantageous \"slow arm\" technique, where he/she can take advantage from placing his/her on the opponent's navel slowly). The wrestler starting in the offensive position is in control of his opponent, and thus does not need to gain control to score near-fall points or a pin. The wrestler could also choose the defensive (bottom) position, where he would have the opportunity to score points for a reversal or an escape and a subsequent takedown, as riding time is not calculated in high school wrestling. The wrestler could also defer his choice to the beginning of the third period.\n\nMore recently, another starting position choice has been allowed, known as the \"optional offensive starting position\" or \"optional start\". After the wrestler with the choice (the offensive wrestler) indicates his intention to the referee, the referee lets the defensive wrestler adjust and begin in the defensive starting position. Next, the offensive wrestler goes to either side of the defensive wrestler or behind him, with all his weight supported by both his feet or by one or both knees. The offensive wrestler would then place both his hands on the opponent's back between the neck and the waist. When the referee starts the match by blowing the whistle, the defensive wrestler then has the opportunity to get back to his feet in a neutral position. Any of the starting positions may be used to resume action during a period when the wrestlers go off the mat, depending on the referee's judgment as to whether any or which wrestler had the advantage. The use of the optional starting position has been reduced by a 2007-08 rule change, which allows the offensive wrestler to choose to start from a neutral position, yielding one point for an escape to the defensive wrestler. The offensive wrestler must signal this intention to the referee before he comes set.\n\nThe second period is two minutes long.\n\nIf the match is not ended by a fall, technical fall, default, or disqualification, the referee then prepares both wrestlers to begin the third period. The wrestler who did not choose the starting position for the second period now chooses the starting position. The third period is also two minutes long.\n\nIf the third period ends in a tie, a one-minute sudden victory period occurs. Both wrestlers start in the neutral position. The first wrestler to score a point wins.\nIf no points are scored in the sudden victory period, two 30-second tiebreaker periods occur. Both wrestlers start in the referee's position. The wrestler who won a colored disk toss made by the referee has the choice of either top or bottom position, and he may NOT defer the choice to his opponent. After the wrestler makes the choice, the two contestants then wrestle. Either of the two wrestlers must try to score as many points as he can. Once one 30-second period is over, the wrestler who did not have the choice in the previous period may choose to start the new period from the top or bottom. Whoever scores the most points (or is awarded a fall, default, or disqualification) wins the match.\n\nIf no points were scored or the score is still tied after the two 30-second tiebreaker periods, a final ultimate tiebreaker period is used. The ultimate tiebreaker period lasts for 30 seconds. Both wrestlers also start in the referee's position. The wrestler who scored the first points in regulation (except in the case of double-stalling or simultaneous penalties) has the choice of top or bottom position, or he may defer the choice to the opponent. If no points were scored in the regulation match, the winner of a colored disk toss will have the choice of position. After the wrestler makes his choice, the two contestants then wrestle. The person in the bottom position must then escape or reverse his opponent to get the win. If the wrestler in the offensive (top) position rides the defensive (bottom) wrestler (that is, keeps the defensive wrestler under control in the position of advantage) for the entire 30 seconds, he wins the match and is awarded one point. Wrestlers may still be awarded points for near falls, and a fall terminates the bout.\n\nAfter the match is completed, regardless of the victory condition, the wrestlers will return to the center of the mat (on the 10-foot inner circle) while the referee checks with the scorer's table. Upon the referee's return to the mat, the two wrestlers shake hands, and the referee declares the winner by raising the winner's hand. While not stipulated by the rules, it is customary for both contestants to then shake the hand of the opposing team's coach(es). Both contestants then return to their team benches from the mat.\n\nIn scholastic wrestling, points are awarded mostly on the basis of control. Control occurs when a wrestler has gained restraining power over an opponent, usually, by controlling the opponent's legs and torso. When a wrestler gains control and maintains restraining power over an opponent, he is said to be in the \"position of advantage\". Scoring can be accomplished in the following ways:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA match can be won in the following ways:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn the high school level in a \"dual meet\", the wrestler not only wins the match for himself, but also gains points for his team. The number of points awarded to a team during a dual meet depends on the victory condition. It is possible for a team to lose team points in certain infractions, such as unsportsmanlike conduct, flagrant misconduct, and unauthorized questioning of the referee by the coach.\n\nIn a dual meet, when all team points are totaled, the team with the most points wins the competition. In all victory cases, the junior varsity and varsity competitions are scored separately. If there is a tie between teams, the tie is broken by one team point being awarded to the winning team based on certain criteria.\n\nIn a tournament, most of the team points are scored for advancement. For example, a team winning a match in the championship bracket would be awarded two team advancement points; one advancement point would be awarded if a team won a match in the consolation bracket. The corresponding team points also apply if a wrestler from the team gained a bye and then won his next match in that bracket. Two additional points are for victories by fall, default, disqualification, and forfeit. One and one-half additional points are awarded for technical fall victories. One additional point is awarded for major decisions. A team could then win a certain number of placement points if its wrestlers have placed individually in the championship and consolation brackets. Thus, whole teams are awarded placements (first, second, etc.) based on their total number of victories.\n\nIndividual placement points are also awarded as given minimum placements are clinched. For example, in a tournament scoring eight places, the winner of a quarterfinal in the championship bracket (where first and second places are awarded) would win three place points. The winner of a semifinal in the championship bracket would win nine place points. The winners of first and second place would then win four additional place points. In the consolation bracket (where third and fifth places are awarded), those wrestlers who reach the quarterfinal round will receive one place point. The winner of a semifinal match in the consolation bracket would receive four place points. The winners of third and fifth place would receive two additional place points. The winner of seventh place would receive one additional place point, and so on. A more detailed account of how individual and team points are awarded for tournaments is given on pages 47 to 50 of the \"2008-09 NFHS Wrestling Rules Book\".\n\nAt young ages, independent tournaments are often played in the freestyle and Greco-Roman styles. There are also tournaments where wrestlers compete in a style very similar to collegiate or high school (scholastic) wrestling. To differentiate this style from freestyle and Greco-Roman, the term \"folkstyle wrestling\" is a more commonly used phrase than the term collegiate wrestling or scholastic wrestling. In many places in the United States, there are small associations known as wrestling clubs designed to introduce young people to the sport of wrestling, many of whom are even as young as 3 to 5 years old. Often these wrestling clubs are benefitted by the experience of older wrestlers, particularly those who wrestle in middle school and high school. The rules governing youth matches largely correspond to those of the National Federation of State High School Associations (NFHS), with shorter periods (generally, depending on the age divisions, the periods typically last anywhere from one to one and a half minutes) and other modifications.\n\nThe injuries sustained while participating in scholastic wrestling are as follows. 68% of injuries are due to lack of training while participating in conditioning (asthma attacks, etc.) 21% of injuries are sustained to the ankles of participants. 8% of those injuries are sustained while in conditioning. Injuries in matches stand at 11%, with 83% of injuries sustained to the ankles due to weak shoewear, and to the groin.\nThere is, however, much less visible organization of wrestling in the freestyle and Greco-Roman styles for young wrestlers, especially at the high school and college age levels. Many high school and college students do compete in freestyle and Greco-Roman dual meets and tournaments however with great success, some of which are on the regional and national levels.\n\nSimilarly, the differences between collegiate (folkstyle) wrestling and the international styles are enough to create potential disadvantages to the wrestlers not growing up focusing on the international styles. However, some would argue that the real reason the United States does not typically fare as well in international wrestling competitions is because of the greater focus much of the rest of the world places on the sport. USA Wrestling and the Amateur Athletic Union currently sponsors duals, state, regional, and national competitions in folkstyle, freestyle, and Greco-Roman for elementary and middle school age students, as well as for all ages.\n\nCutting weight is a common occurrence in the sport of wrestling. The process of cutting weight allows a wrestler to compete at a lower weight class, facing lighter opponents. The advantage is gained when the wrestler loses only water-weight and fat-weight, but retains lean body mass. The wrestler then re-hydrates himself after weighing-in but before competition begins. If done properly, a wrestler who does cut weight can gain a very significant strength and weight advantage over opponents who do not.\n\nAthletes can cut weight in an unhealthy way, with negative short and long-term effects. Dehydration can result when a wrestler severely reduces intake of fluids while maintaining rigorous daily workouts. This may result in cramps or, in extreme cases, heatstroke and swelling of the brain which causes seizures and hypovolemic shock. Malnutrition can also result if cutting weight over long periods of time. Long term weight cutting can mean that a wrestler does not intake essential nutrients like protein, calories, vitamin B, vitamin B, iron, and zinc; this can result in depression, muscular atrophy, and fevers.\n\nSome wrestlers, if weigh-in time is approaching and they have not yet reached their weight class, will resort to desperate measures such as throwing up or abusing diuretics to quickly lose the remaining weight. Extreme weight cutting can have similar effects to anorexia nervosa and bulimia but results from entirely different psychological mechanisms.\n\nEvery state in American high school wrestling uses national hydration assessment tests. These tests analyze body fat percentages at the alpha weight and determine how much weight a wrestler can lose each week. When a wrestler reaches the minimum body fat percentage of 7% of their alpha fat composition it is illegal for the wrestler to cut any more weight (12% for females). This system is meant to make cutting weight as healthy as possible and reduce the negative side effects of cutting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893226", "title": "Comp Air Jet", "text": "Comp Air Jet\n\nThe Comp Air Jet is an American eight-seat, low-wing, pressurized, tricycle undercarriage, turbofan-powered civil utility aircraft marketed by Comp Air for amateur construction.\n\nIn 2002 the co-owners of Aerocomp, which is now known as Comp Air, Steve Young and Ron Lueck announced the Comp Air Jet project. The jet is constructed from a \"proprietary carbon-fiber hybrid sandwich\" and powered by a Ukrainian Ivchenko AI-25 engine. Alternative engines planned for included the Pratt & Whitney JT12-8 or CJ610 or projected future Williams International or Agilis engines.\n\nOn July 10, 2004 the Comp Air Jet flew for the first time from Merritt Island Airport. Though the gear was not retracted during the flight, the aircraft still reached speeds of . The jet landed after 37 minutes with the landing taking about 2000 feet.\n\nOn January 11, 2005 Aerocomp flew the prototype back to the Merritt Island Airport for further development work after more than 30 hours of flight testing at Space Coast Regional Airport, Titusville, Florida.\n\nAs of April 2011 the prototype remained the sole example registered with the Federal Aviation Administration.\n"}
{"id": "1893229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893229", "title": "Dry", "text": "Dry\n\nDry or dryness usually refers to:\n\n\nDry or DRY may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893236", "title": "Peter Witt streetcar", "text": "Peter Witt streetcar\n\nThe Peter Witt streetcar was introduced by Cleveland Railway commissioner Peter Witt (1869–1948) who led the transit agency from 1911–1915 and designed a model of streetcar known by his name that was used in many North American cities, most notably in Toronto and Cleveland.\n\nThis design was distinguished from other streetcars of the era by its use of the center door as an exit only, with a conductor stationed inside just in front of the door. Passengers could board through the front doors without waiting or paying; they could pay the conductor immediately and sit in the rear of the car (in the nicer seats), or wait in front and pay just before they exited. This had the effect of reducing the car's dwell time at stops, improving schedule times and increasing capacity. Many vehicles were later converted to pay-as-you-enter operation in order to reduce the number of staff needed, but they continued to be known as Peter Witt cars.\n\nMr. Witt completed the first prototype in 1914 and filed his patent for the car design in 1915. G.C. Kuhlman Car Company then delivered 130 cars of this design to Cleveland in 1915 and 1916. From this point the design was licensed to a number of cities that needed large capacity trolleys. Toronto Transportation Commission ordered 575 cars from 1921 to 1923 and operated them until 1965. Philadelphia Rapid Transit ordered 525 cars from 1923 to 1926, while also converting most of their 1,500 Nearside streetcar fleet to center exit models. Production continued until the introduction of the PCC streetcar in the mid-1930s.\n\nPeter Witt cars were also built in Italy and used in several Italian cities, including Milan, where 200 out of 502 originally built class 1500 cars (introduced in 1928) are still in use up to this day. Additionally eleven ex-Milan cars can be seen today on the streets of San Francisco, where they operate on the F Market & Wharves streetcar line. Also in Italy, 30 heavily rebuilt Petter Witt cars are still in use in Naples. Neapolitan prototype cars 901 and 902, built in 1930, and the first series order cars 903–906, built in 1932, were the only Peter Witt cars in use by 1950; they were rebuilt, eliminating the center door and adding a rear door to match the rest of the fleet built from 1932 on. The present rebuilt fleet has some of these cars, though they are no longer in Peter Witt format. \n\nIn early 1930s, а group of Soviet engineers from Leningrad headed by designer D. I. Kondratyev visited the United States and, on their return, adapted the American design to the local narrower loading gauge to start local production of the model LM-33 (popularly known as \"\"американка\"\" (\"Amerikanka\", Russian for \"an American lady\") that was later used in the city for 45 years (in its last decades, together with other tram models), until mid-March, 1979, according to St.Petersburg Museum of the City's Electric Transport.\n\nBesides their continued use in day-to-day service in Milan, San Francisco and (in a rebuilt form) Naples, Peter Witt cars have been preserved in several locations. Gomaco Trolley Company, a US streetcar renovation specialist, has bought 70 ex-Milan cars which it is offering to museums and heritage streetcar operators. In a St. Petersburg, Russia, museum there is a restored sample of the version once made and used in the city.\n\nOperators that used Peter Witt streetcars included:\n\n"}
{"id": "1893248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893248", "title": "Rippon Lea Estate", "text": "Rippon Lea Estate\n\nRippon Lea Estate is a heritage-listed historic house and gardens located in Elsternwick, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia. It is in the care of the National Trust of Australia. It was added to the Australian National Heritage List on 11 August 2006..\n\nThe Rippon Lea Estate was built in 1868 for Sir Frederick Sargood, a wealthy Melbourne businessman, politician and philanthropist. Frederick and his wife Marion purchased Crown Allotment 253 and either all, or part of Crown Allotment 260 in the Parish of Prahran, Elsternwick giving them a total area of . Located about 8 kilometres from the Melbourne central business district, he contracted a two-storey, 15 room house be built. An extensive pleasure garden was laid out around the house, together with glasshouses, vegetable gardens and orchards. The gardens were designed to be self-sufficient as regards water, and the large man-made lake on the property was designed to store stormwater run-off from the surrounding area. By the late 1870s Rippon Lea was a total of with the kitchen garden alone taking up .\n\nThe Sargood family lived at Rippon Lea until Frederick's death in 1903, and over the years extended the house on several occasions. The greatest structural changes occurred in 1897 when the house was extended to the north, and a tower was added. The style of the house has been described as \"polychromatic romanesque\" and the architect, Joseph Reed, was said to have been inspired by the architecture of the Lombardy region of northern Italy. The house also contained many other innovations; it was one of the first in Australia to be lit by electricity, produced by its own generators, and Sargood employed a full-time electrician to maintain the system, and the fittings included an electrically powered bell system to communicate with the servants quarters and kitchens below stairs.\n\nOn Frederick's death in 1903, the property was sold to a consortium of real estate developers who had plans to demolish the house and subdivide the land. Elsternwick at this time was a new suburb on the outskirts of Melbourne; 35 years earlier when the Sargoods bought the land, it had been well outside the built-up area of Melbourne.\n\nThe house was empty for six years, while the developers sold off various parcels of land, particularly the orchards and paddocks. However, before the final carve-up of the estate could be undertaken, the leader of the consortium, Sir Thomas Bent, died and the property was put on the market in 1910.\n\nIt was bought by Ben and Agnes Nathan, who owned the Maples chain of furniture stores in Melbourne. The Nathans lived there until Ben's death in 1935. The property then passed to their eldest daughter, Louisa, along with a legacy of £1 million.\n\nLouisa (married name, Mrs Timothy Jones) was a leading figure in the Melbourne social set in the 1930s. She undertook extensive remodelling and renovation of the house to allow her to entertain on a lavish scale. The interior of the house was redecorated in a restrained classical 1930s style, drawing heavily on Hollywood film style of the 1930s and Syrie Maugham's \"all white room\" as influences. These renovations substantially altered most of the surviving Victorian features of the house—for example, the wallpaper in the entrance hall and corridors (originally embossed in gold) was over-painted in white, as were the marble columns around the main entrance.\n\nThe ornate iron-framed ballroom built by Frederick Sargood (which was converted from an earlier conservatory) was demolished to make way for a lavish \"Hollywood style\" swimming pool and ballroom and of gardens were maintained. Mrs Jones also installed a new modern kitchen on the ground level and the original basement kitchen and service areas were closed up, which preserved many of the surviving 19th century features of this section of the house, including the cool room, the wine cellar and the large fuel stove.\n\nIn preparation for the 1956 Olympic Games in Melbourne, a section of the property was compulsorily acquired by the Victorian government to house a new television studio complex for the Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC). The Rippon Lea studio became the ABC's Melbourne studio and in later years were used as the production centre for many renowned ABC programs including \"Bellbird\", \"Countdown\", \"The Big Gig\" and \"The Late Show\".\n\nAnother section of the property was compulsorily acquired by the state government a few years later and Mrs Jones fought a long-running legal action against it. She eventually settled with the government, agreeing that, on her death the house and the land still in her possession would be bequeathed to the National Trust. With Mrs Jones death on 27 July 1972, the house and gardens were reunited with the disputed acquisition, saving the estate from the threat of sale and subdivision and allowing the public to enjoy the estate in perpetuity.\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s the Vernon Family resided in the gate house.\n\nOf particular note in the grounds are the lake, the spectacular iron-framed fernery, the swimming pool and associated ballroom (1939, now leased to Peter Rowland Catering for social functions) and the stable complex (1868). The rooms of the basement kitchen complex are also of special interest, having been built in the 1880s and then abandoned in 1938 following the installation of a modern kitchen on the ground floor. Today they are a rare surviving Australian example of a 19th-century kitchen suite; comprising kitchen, scullery, pantries, cool rooms, servants' hall and wine cellar.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893252", "title": "Saint Genesius", "text": "Saint Genesius\n\nSaint Genesius may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1893254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893254", "title": "Blackfire (DC Comics)", "text": "Blackfire (DC Comics)\n\nBlackfire (Princess Komand'r) is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by DC Comics. She is the older sister of the Teen Titans member Crown Princess Koriand'r/Starfire and less-known youngest sibling and brother Crown Prince Ryand'r/Darkfire; the former of whom is her archenemy.\n\nBlackfire appears in the second and third seasons of the DC Universe series \"Titans\", played by Damaris Lewis.\n\nBlackfire first appears in \"New Teen Titans\" #22 and was created by Marv Wolfman and George Pérez.\n\nKomand'r is the firstborn child and eldest daughter of Tamaran's royal family. The first princess born in over a century, she should have been courted and showered with honors. On the day she was born, the Citadel Empire attacked and destroyed the western Tamaranean city of Kysarr and killed three thousand citizens in her name. Though she was in no way at fault for what had happened, Komand'r was, for all time, inextricably linked with that terrible day. To make matters worse, Komand'r was crippled by a childhood illness that left her unable to harness ultraviolet light into energy to fly like most Tamaraneans. Because of Komand'r's naturally grim disposition, a stark contrast to the royal family's generally contented outlook, the subjects of Tamaran hated her. As a result, though first in the line of succession, she was denied her birthright to be the next Crown Princess of Tamaran to maintain the respect and prestige of the royal family. Her privileges, honors, and her royal style and dignity were transferred to her younger sister, Princess Koriand'r (who would later become known as Starfire). Inwardly, Komand'r's rage grew and her resentment turned to hatred for her own world, her people, her family, and lastly her younger sister who, in Komand'r's eyes, made the fateful mistake of being born. Komand'r's hatred continued and intensified when she and her sister were sent, per Tamaran's warlike custom, for warrior training with the Warlords of Okaara. Komand'r's true feelings were exposed when during a sparring exercise she attempted to kill her younger sister. As a result, she was expelled by the Warlords. Humiliated by her own transgression, Komand'r swore vengeance and joined the Citadel, quickly rising through their ranks to become a warrior-maiden fighting against the forces of her own world and, ultimately, her own family.\n\nKomand'r later betrayed her home world with detailed information about Tamaran's planetary defenses to the Citadel. They conquered Tamaran with ease, and the surrender conditions included the enslavement of Koriand'r. Koriand'r was never permitted to return, since that would mean the Citadel would devastate the planet for abrogating the treaty. Komand'r was her sister's master and made the most of her younger sister's bondage with years of horrific servitude and torture. When Kori killed one of her rapists, Komand'r decided to execute her as punishment, but not before the sisters were attacked and captured by the Psions. Psions, largely a species of sadistic scientists, performed a deadly experiment on both of the sisters to see just how much ultraviolet energy their Tamaranian bodies could absorb before exploding from the overload. During the procedure, Komand'r's forces attacked the Psion ship to rescue her and while the Psions were distracted, Kori broke free with her newly developed starbolts, highly destructive blasts of bright pink-colored ultraviolet energy, which were a result of the experimentation. Against her better judgment she decided to free Komand'r, who was still absorbing more and more ultraviolet energy. However, far from grateful, Komand'r had struck her younger sister down with the same (but much stronger) lilac-colored ultraviolet energy and had her restrained for later execution. Kori escaped and stole a spaceship to planet Earth, where she met a young group of heroes-Robin, Beast Boy, Bumblebee, Speedy and Kid Flash- and helped form the new Teen Titans.\n\nKomand'r appeared in the \"Rann-Thanagar War\" limited series, during which she killed Hawkwoman in her pursuit of a New Tamaran. She formed an uneasy alliance with the surviving players of the war in order to deal with more pressing concerns (\"Infinite Crisis\"). She was not seen during the \"Crisis\" series itself, but was featured in \"Hawkgirl\" and \"Hawkman\" comics as well as in \"\", attempting to kill Hawkman and Hawkgirl in order to further her own plans in the goings on & aftermath of the war. The Hawks defeated Komand'r, after which Hawkman used Psion technology to strip the villainess of her abilities.\n\nBlackfire has later resurfaced in The \"Outsiders\" (vol. 3) #31-32 (\"Infinite Crisis\" tie-in issues) with her powers already having been restored by the Psions and enhanced to the point of gaining flight. Further along the line in R.E.B.E.L.S. (vol. 2), When Vril Dox moved the planet Rann into the location formally held by Tamaran in the Vega System, Blackfire arrived with her army in attempt to seize the planet for her own people. Dox was able to quickly stop the hostilities, however, and brokered a treaty allowing Blackfire and her people to settle on the uninhabited southern continent of Rann. During these events, Blackfire gained a newfound sense of respect for Dox, realizing his egocentric personality was very similar to her own. The two went on an unofficial date disguised as a diplomatic dinner and after Dox was captured by Starro the Conqueror, Blackfire joined forces with Adam Strange and other members of L.E.G.I.O.N. to rescue him. Blackfire then subsequently claimed Dox as her king consort.\n\nIn \"The New 52\" (a 2011 reboot of the DC Comics universe), some people's origins and personalities have been changed to an unknown degree. While not at first referred to by name, it is said Starfire's sister sold her for the safety of their planet. It is revealed that a parasitic race known as the Blight has taken over Tamaran, their purpose unknown and Koriand'r fears the worst for her sister. Komand'r appears via flashback as her sister talks about their relationship, saying that they rarely get along and that Kori is embittered toward Komand'r and the people of Tamaran for letting her be enslaved. After Kori fought her way free, she was praised as a hero and given a ship named the \"Starfire\" by Komand'r, but the rift between the girls was still there. Komand'r appears to a captured Roy Harper and appears to be working with or under the Blight. Roy's capture, however, was revealed to be a mission to rescue Komand'r, as he successfully teleported her back onto the \"Starfire\". Kom and Kori reconcile in a teary conversation as Kori forgivers her sister and the issue ends with the sisters preparing to take back Tamaran by themselves. Kom and Kori fight through the hordes of the Blight with Jason, Roy and a few of the members of Kori's ship. Komand'r is stabbed in the back by a spear thrown by the Blight's leader. Kori's emotions send an energetic shock wave, wiping out everything around her. When the smoke clears she holds the defeated Blight leader. After the battle, Princess Koriand'r is next to the throne and Crown Princess Komand'r stumbles next to her. She asks Kori to stay, but realizes she cannot. They hug and Crown Princess Komand'r gives them a ship to get back to Earth.\n\nPrincess Komand'r (Blackfire) is a Tamaranean like her younger sister; her physiology is designed to constantly absorb and control pure ultraviolet radiation into destructive and powerful bolts of energy which she calls \"blackbolts.\" The radiation is then converted to pure energy which enabled her incredible feats of strength, speed, durability and the like; all on par or possibly greater than those of Starfire, having fought and bested her many times. This is not the case for flight, however, as she suffered a sickness in her youth which stripped her of this ability, but she found other means of circumventing this handicap. Being of royal blood and having fought in many wars, Komand'r also boasts impressive mortal combat skills superior even to her sibling, be it unarmed or with weaponry on hand, having battled and bested the likes of her own sibling (who is also a veteran warrior) and Thanagarian heroes Kartar Hol, Shayera Thal and Shayera Hol either in single combat or in pairs and win, as well as holding her own against the likes of a weakened Starro in his humanoid form (with some assistance from Starfire). Having undergone the same experiments conducted upon her by the Psions, Blackfire too has the ability to release her absorbed energy into incredibly powerful blasts called \"starbolts\". Hers by comparison, however, are considerably stronger enabling her to overpower her sister's starbolt energy. For a time Blackfire was stripped of all her powers by Hawkman using the same technology the Psions used in their experimentation upon her. Even without these strengths Komand'r is still a political activist and capable leader, being Queen of Tamaran she has access to a great many facilities, be it governmental or military in nature. Like any good politician, Blackfire is a skilled manipulator, able to utilize fear and misdirection to her advantage; even forging alliances with others despite her incredibly sociopathic nature.\n\nWhen her natural abilities were restored in full, however, she not only regained all the natural Tamaranian abilities she initially lacked, Princess Blackfire even gained a capacity she lacked, namely faster-than-light aviary travel. This accommodates her resilience against heat, radiation and the harsh vacuum of outer space coupled with a solar powered self-sustenance eliminating the need to eat, drink, sleep or an atmosphere to breathe, which enables the evil queen to travel interstellar distances unaided, though she can take in sustenance if she desires too. She can also actively absorb stellar and UV energy like her sister but has a unique ability her counterpart does not, which is the active absorption of stellar energies to copy off new abilities from another person, like when she drew energy directly from Starfire emulating her omni-directional energy burst; due to her greater stellar energy absorption abilities, however, Blackfire can recover faster than her sister when she uses her powers in such a way. Blackfire, like all Tamaraneans, can assimilate languages through physical contact with another person and is more fluent in the English language of humans than Koriand'r. She also does not need to eat or drink; though she can if unusually low on ultraviolet energy.\n\nIn both animated shows, Blackfire can project her lilac-colored ultraviolet energy reserves as optic blasts, revealed to be facet received after her changes phase, in the episode \"Betrothed\" she had come into possession of a mystical artifact dubbed the Jewel of Charta, which greatly magnified her abilities tens of times greater, turning her normally lilac-colored \"blackbolts\" a bright red. Her enhanced durability and invulnerability were amplified as well, to the point of withstanding a barrage of Starfire's bright green starbolts and appear unscathed.\n\nShe is also a master manipulator and deceiver, capable of using kind and friendly words to achieve her vile goals.\n\nBlackfire appears in the 2003 animated series, voiced by Hynden Walch (the voice actress of Starfire in the same series). In the series, this version is depicted as a young woman, yet is shown to be a few years older than her sister Starfire. In contrast to the other Tamaraneans shown on the series, all of whom have auburn or brown hair and bright green eyes with green sclera, Blackfire is shown to have black hair with purple streaks, and purple eyes with white sclera - likely a reference to her comic counterpart being born deformed by Tamaranean standards. She possesses superhuman strength, durability, reflexes, agility, endurance, FTL flight (a natural Tamaranian ability she lacked in the comics), as well as the ability to generate bright lilac-colored bolts of ultraviolet energy from her hands that are quite powerful and destructive, which are called \"blackbolts\". In a contrast with her comic book depiction, Blackfire has the natural ability to fly faster-than-light through the air at will. Presumably, she has all of the same abilities as Starfire, as the two are quite evenly matched in combat. Her clothes in the series are quite similar to Starfire's as seen in the prequel episode \"Go!\", but Starfire's was purple; whereas Blackfire's outfit is black and Starfire's skin showed while Blackfire's is covered by a metal plating of sorts. Blackfire's debut appearance came in the first-season episode \"Sisters\", where Blackfire comes to Earth to visit Starfire. However, it is soon revealed that Blackfire is actually an infamous galactic criminal, and she has actually come to Earth in an attempt to frame her younger sister for her crimes. Fortunately, her plan was thwarted and the result ended in an epic fight between sisters. Their battle is interrupted when Blackfire is arrested by Centauri police forces. She vows that she will get out of galactic jail and get even with her little sister.\n\nIn Episode 29, \"Betrothed\", Blackfire is revealed to have \"got bored\" and escaped galactic jail, and in control of Tamaran as the Empress. She used her authority to have Starfire married to a swamp alien in return for the magical Jewel of Charta, under the guise that Tamaran would be destroyed if Starfire did not comply. The Teen Titans soon discover that the elder sister's plan is a hoax, and Starfire proceeds to challenge Blackfire to a duel for the Tamaranean throne. The Jewel of Charta was shown to greatly enhance Blackfire's abilities (turning her starbolts from lavender to red at the time), until Starfire took the jewel from her sister by force and crushed it. After Blackfire was defeated by Starfire, Blackfire is then forced into exile; presumably one of the swamp moons of Drenfax 4. Blackfire hasn't been seen for the remainder of the show.\n\nThe \"New Teen Titans\" animated short \"Blackfire's Babysitter\" depicts Blackfire as having quadruplets with the swamp alien she had attempted to force Starfire into marrying, but the animated short was created as a joke and is not considered canon.\n\nPrincess Komand'r (Blackfire in Earth's English language) appears as a supporting character, again voiced by Hynden Walch. She first appears in the Season 2 premiere, \"Mr. Butt\". After getting into trouble with the Galactic Police again, Blackfire seeks refuge with Starfire. After Starfire gave Blackfire delighted hugs, Blackfire is introduced to the rest of the Teen Titans, to which her little sister's teammates took an immediate disliking to her. After Blackfire flirts with Robin, the Titans try to tell Starfire that Blackfire was one of the most wanted criminals. Starfire then claims that she was going to give Blackfire one more chance, but if Blackfire crushed Starfire's sisterly feelings once more, a thoroughly enraged Starfire would destroy her. After Blackfire grudgingly does \"sisterly stuff\" with Starfire (making her little sister look exactly like her), the Galactic Police find Starfire (dressed as Blackfire), and take her prisoner where Starfire, both heartbroken and revenge-torn, swears to destroy Blackfire once and for all. After learning to listen to a sister's problems, and how to live with a younger sibling, Blackfire felt guilt for her horrible actions toward her younger sister, and becomes a better older sister. In the midst of this, a thoroughly enraged and revenge-torn Starfire breaks into Titans Tower, bent on destroying Blackfire once and for all. Blackfire tries to help with sisterly loving actions, but Starfire makes it clear that she would not fall for that again. Blackfire finally gets her sister to stop momentarily by showing the doll that she had stolen from Starfire as a five-year-old child, and apologizing for it, also stating 'I've changed, now.'. Starfire disintegrates the doll and says \"So have I\", before shooting Blackfire with a bright green laser eye blast. Later, in Titans Tower, Blackfire and Starfire appear in the main lounge, causing the Titans to jump up and ask how it went. After Blackfire faints from exhaustion and pain, Starfire cheerfully states that they had \"worked things out\".\n\nFinally being given major speaking roles since her debut episode, Blackfire reappears in the Season 5 two-part episode \"Girls Night In\" as the \"new alien threat\" coming to Earth, having a major role since her debut episode in the Season 2 premiere. Raven and Starfire, alongside their fellow girls, fight Starfire's elder sister in an all-out battle to stop her from conquering Earth. Starfire still wants to do sisterly bonding, obliviously regardless to her elder sister's intense dislike and hatred of her. Doing her favorite game of \"Truth or Death\", Blackfire further shatters her younger sister's heart by stating the hard truth: That she wished she did not have a sister.\nAt this, the heartbroken and furious Starfire combines with her fellow girls- Raven, Bumblebee, Ravager, Jinx and Terra- and beats Blackfire once again by pushing her into the portal where her army was coming through. In \"We're Off to Get Awards\", she appeared in a cameo when she was awarded \"Best Tamaranian Princess\" which infuriated Starfire.\n\nHynden Walch reprises her role as Crown Princess Komand'r/Blackfire in the web series as a supporting character. Unlike Princess Koriand'r/Starfire, her appearance is not modeled after her original comic looks. She appears in \"The Day of Funship\", where she and Starfire are having some sisterly fun, which she gets bored with. At the zoo, she and Starfire use a Tamaranian nursery rhyme to defeat King Shark. Blackfire is leaving to return to Koragar Academy, but promises to see her younger sister for Tamaran Sovereignty Day, and admitted that she did have fun hanging out with her \"kinifster\" after all. In the two-part Season 4 episode \"Tamaranean Dance Club\", she appeared as two cameos to do the traditional Tamaranian dance (translates to\"domination battle\" in Tamaranian) against her younger sister Starfire, Wonder Woman, Supergirl and Batgirl, who defeated her and her fellow Korugar Academy students.\n\nPrincess Komand'r (Blackfire) appears in the second season of the live-action television series \"Titans\" as a supporting character, portrayed by Damaris Lewis. In this version, as seen in the episode \"Atonement\", she has succeeded in seizing the Tamaranean throne and murdering the entire royal court, including her own parents. Komand'r also sends a mind-controlling parasite to infect a Tamaraean emissary, Faddei, to manipulate her younger sister into returning home. When her game of deception was discovered by Kory, she appears as a hologram and expresses the intense resentment and jealousy she had always felt towards Koriand'r and her closer and more loving relationship with their parents. When Kory declares that she is coming for her, Komand'r merely replies \"good\" and detonates a bomb to destroy her sister's ship, leaving Kory stranded on Earth yet again. In the finale, \"Nightwing,\" she uses another parasite to take over a woman in a parking lot and alter her body to resemble her own, before using her strength to shove a man aside for approaching her. Her eyes are shown to glow a bright lavender as she walks away. Komand'r is set to become the primary antagonist of the upcoming third season, with the intent of defeating her sister personally.\n\nWhen a frustrated Starfire is complaining about Damian Wayne's (Batman's illegitimate son) negative behavior to Nightwing when brushing her reddish hair after a shower, she said that he reminds her of her sister.\nPrincess Komand'r/Blackfire is again mentioned/referenced when Starfire was rescued from the Gordanians by Robin, Kid Flash, Arsenal, Beast Boy, and Bumblebee (in a flashback which took place five years ago). She revealed that Blackfire had staged a coup and seized the throne, forcing Princess Koriand'r to flee Tamaran and land on Planet Earth. In the present, Beast Boy had told Terra that Starfire was \"a refugee being stalked by her homicidal sister\".\nWith Hynden Walch reprising her role, Blackfire debuts in the second movie of the animated series. Unlike Starfire, her appearance is not modeled after her original comic looks; having straight waist-length dark purple hair. As one of the students at Koragar Academy, she came to Earth to beat Super Hero High School in the games, even her own sister. She expressed her dislike at Starfire's overly optimistic attitude and at her sister \"lowering herself to help humans\". She is offended of mere mortals passing themselves off as \"superheroes\" such as Batgirl. As the night wore on, she later stayed behind to help Starfire fight the robots created by Lena Luthor. She combined her stronger lilac blackbolt energies with Starfire's bright green ones and dismantled them with ease, to which Starfire said that they were at their very strongest when using \"the blast of togetherness\". She combined her purple ultraviolet energy-projecting abilities with Starfire, and several other superheroes, to supercharge Platinum.\n\nBlackfire is mentioned by Starfire in some of her intros battling various villains and heroes. Doctor Fate had stated that \"your sister's specter haunts you\", to which Starfire replied that Komand'r had betrayed her and all of Tamaran. There was another duel, in which Starfire was fighting a fellow female Tamaranean whom she had called her \"Komand'r\" whose ultraviolet energy bolts were the same bright green color as her own, in contrast to being bright lilac. This version had said that she was from the multiverse.\n\nBlackfire appears in the online game of \"Teen Titans Go!\". Angry that she was not invited to her younger sister's birthday party, she arrived at Titans Tower and demanded that the Titans face her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893258", "title": "Music in Udmurtia", "text": "Music in Udmurtia\n\nUdmurtia is a federal subject of Russia (a republic). The largest ethnic group in the area are the Udmurts, who have vibrant folk song traditions. Musical contests as well as ceremonial and ritual music are an important part of the music of Udmurtia. Every year since 1958 the capital Izhevsk has been hosting a traditional musical festival dedicated to the birthday of Tchaikovsky.\n\nSince the breakup of the Soviet Union a revival of a Finno-Ugric cultural identity has taken place among Estonians and Udmurts, which resulted in a pan-Finno-Ugric cultural movement called \"Ethnofuturism\". Udmurt musicians of this movement include Ivan Grigoryevykh, singer Nadezhda (Nadia) Utkina and composer Marina Khodyreva. In 2001, three CDs with authentic folk music were produced under the common title \"The New Song of the Ancient Land\". The band \"Virgo In Tacta\" blends folk with electronic music. \n\nNative Udmurt ethno-pop recording act Buranovskiye Babushki represented Russia in the Eurovision Song Contest 2012.\n\nTraditional instruments include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1893264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893264", "title": "List of compositions by Felix Mendelssohn", "text": "List of compositions by Felix Mendelssohn\n\nThis is a list of compositions by Felix Mendelssohn.\n\n(Note: the list includes works which were published posthumously and given opus numbers after the composer's death. Only the opus numbers 1 to 72 were assigned by Mendelssohn, the later ones by publishers. The opus number sequence does not therefore always accord with the order of composition).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMendelssohn composed several chorale cantatas, several on Lutheran hymns:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893265", "title": "Dunc Gray", "text": "Dunc Gray\n\nEdgar Laurence \"Dunc\" Gray (17 July 190630 August 1996) was an Australian track cyclist and Olympian.\n\nGray was born in Goulburn, New South Wales. He was called 'Dunc', which dates back to school where he was called 'Dunc' and this was later was extended to 'Duncan'. He started competitive cycling with Goulburn Amateur Cycling Club around 1925. From 1926 to 1941 he won 20 Australian titles, 36 New South Wales titles, and 36 club championships. On eight occasions he was the NSW 1000m time trial and/or the 1000m sprint winner.\n\nHe won a bronze medal for the 1000m time trial at the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam. This was Australia's first Olympic Games medal in cycling. At the 1932 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles he won Australia's first cycling gold in the same event, in world record time of 1m 13s. He represented Australia at the 1934 British Empire Games and won the 1000m time trial. At the 1938 British Empire Games in Sydney, he won the 1000m sprint.\n\nHe was the flag-bearer for Australia at the 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin and at the 1938 British Empire Games.\n\nIn his last years, Gray lived in Kiama and supported the Olympic movement, including Melbourne's bid for the 1996 Summer Olympics and then Sydney's successful bid for the 2000 Summer Olympics. The Dunc Gray Velodrome at Bass Hill, in Sydney's western suburbs, was built for the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney and named after him.\nThe Speedwell bike that Gray rode at the 1932 Summer Olympics is at the Dunc Gray velodrome. Speedwell bicycles were manufactured by Charles Bennett, a former Intercolonial Champion of Australia, who raced pennyfathings before Federation in 1901.\n\nIn 1985, Gray was inducted into the Sport Australia Hall of Fame. In 2015, he was an inaugural Cycling Australia Hall of Fame inductee.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893275", "title": "Almaz Ivanov", "text": "Almaz Ivanov\n\nAlmaz (Yerofey) Ivanovich Ivanov (Алмаз (Ерофей) Иванович Иванов in Russian) (? – April 27 (N.S. May 7), 1669) was a Russian statesman.\n\nFrom 1640 to 1646, Almaz Ivanov held the post of a \"dyak\" of the royal treasury (Казённый двор, or \"Kazyonniy dvor\"). In 1646, he was transferred to the \"Posolsky Prikaz\" (Посольский приказ, or Ministry of Foreign Affairs). Ivanov was appointed head of the \"Posolsky Prikaz\" in 1653 and remained on this post until 1667. He also managed the \"Pechatny Prikaz\" (Печатный приказ, or Stamp Office) between 1653 and 1669.\n\nIvanov played an important role in the government of tsar Alexey Mikhailovich Romanov. He knew several languages and was a skillful diplomat and manager. In foreign affairs, Ivanov supported Russia's struggle against Poland and the cause for integration of the Russian lands in the south and west into a unified Russian state. Ivanov went to Sweden in 1649 as a member of a diplomatic mission and visited Poland on numerous occasions. Under Ivanov's supervision, they introduced a new Customs Charter in 1653, which unified customs duties. \n"}
{"id": "1893276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893276", "title": "Survivor: Guatemala", "text": "Survivor: Guatemala\n\nSurvivor: Guatemala — The Maya Empire (commonly referred to as Survivor: Guatemala) is the eleventh season of the American CBS competitive reality television series \"Survivor\". Filming took place from June 27, 2005 through August 4, 2005 and the season premiered on September 15, 2005. It was filmed in the Yaxhá-Nakúm-Naranjo National Park near the more popular Tikal National Park, located in northern Guatemala. Originally, the season was scheduled to be filmed in a location on the Indian Ocean, with scouting taking place in Madagascar, Southern India and Sri Lanka. However, due to the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami, the plans were scrapped.\n\nHosted by Jeff Probst, it consisted of the usual 39 days of gameplay with 18 competitors.\n\nThis season also featured the return of \"\" contestants Stephenie LaGrossa and Bobby Jon Drinkard. Aside from the staple twists such as the double Tribal Council and the tribe switch, a new twist called the hidden immunity idol was introduced. The tribes merged with ten remaining players, naming their tribe Xhakúm. After the merge, they received news that an immunity idol was hidden somewhere at camp. Whoever possessed the idol had to use it before the tribe voted. After usage, the idol would be discarded. The idol was only valid until there were four remaining contestants. Danni Boatwright won the title of Sole Survivor by defeating LaGrossa in a 6–1 jury vote.\n\nThe complete season was released on DVD exclusively through Amazon.com on May 22, 2012.\n\nWhile the plan for the season always included two former castaways returning for a second chance, there were several discarded concepts and themes for these returnees. Rodger Bingham and Michael Skupin, both from \"\", were in talks to be the returnees, as were Jonathan Libby and Wanda Shirk, both eliminated on Day 2 of \"\" after not being selected to join a tribe. Skupin eventually returned in \"\". Additionally, Hunter Ellis from \"\" allegedly turned down an offer to return.\n\nNotable cast members include former \"\" castaways, Stephenie LaGrossa and Bobby Jon Drinkard, former beauty queen and model-turned radio announcer Danni Boatwright, ex-NFL quarterback Gary Hogeboom, and film and television writer Rafe Judkins.\n\nStephenie LaGrossa competed for her third time on \"\", finishing 19th. Danni Boatwright would return for \"\", finishing 19th.\n\nSixteen of the 18 players in the game were already split into two tribes, Nakúm and Yaxhá; both tribes received one additional tribe member, Bobby Jon and Stephenie, respectively, both who had previously appeared on \"\"; Probst described these players as resources to help either tribe, but had otherwise no safety against being voted out. The first challenge began immediately, requiring both tribes to trek 11 miles overnight through the jungle to one of the camps near Mayan ruins, along with any available supplies that they wished to carry. The trek left many of the players exhausted and dehydrated for several days following.\n\nDuring the first nine days, the Nakúm tribe proved more successful at the challenges losing only one immunity challenge, sending Yaxhá to Tribal Council twice. During one challenge, Danni, a sportscaster, identified Gary as a former professional quarterback, though Gary would maintain that he was just a landscaper through most of the rest of the game. A tribal switch occurred on Day 10 that left Bobby Jon, Danni, Blake, and Brandon in the majority at Yaxhá, outnumbering Brian, Amy, and Gary. At Nakúm, the tribe was split 4-4 with Margaret, Judd, Cindy, and Brooke from the original Nakúm and Stephenie, Rafe, Jamie, and Lydia from the original Yaxhá. Immediately after the swap, Stephenie and Jamie formed an alliance with Judd to take control of Nakúm, which later included Rafe, Cindy, and Lydia. Though the two tribes performances were fairly even in wins and losses, a crucial immunity challenge won by Nakúm put them in a decisive 6-4 lead into the merge over Yaxhá. On night 18, directly after the Yaxhá tribe had voted off Amy, they left for the Nakúm campsite where the two tribes merged into the Xhákúm tribe. Upon merging, the new tribe was informed of a hidden immunity idol located in the jungle, that could be used before the votes were cast to save themselves. However, the Nakúm alliance of six held strong initially as they voted off Brandon.\n\nAs a reward for winning a reward challenge, Judd received a clue to the hidden idol. To distract the other players, Judd lied about the clue's contents, which Gary was able to pick up on, locating the idol himself and using it to save himself from being eliminated at the next Tribal Council, where Bobby Jon was voted off in his place. Judd's lie became a focal point for Gary to attempt to break the original Nakúm voting block; though Gary was soon voted off, Stephenie and the other former Nakúm members felt Judd was no longer trustworthy and voted him out. At the reward challenge for the final five, a car was the reward prize. Cindy won the challenge, but was given an option by Probst as a means to break the \"Survivor\" \"car curse\" (that no player that has won a car continued on to win the game) by exchanging her prize to give a car to each of the other four players. Cindy ultimately rejected the option, and was voted off at the next Tribal Council.\n\nAfter Lydia's elimination, Stephenie became concerned on an earlier deal made by Rafe and Danni to take each other to the Final Tribal Council; though she struggled to remain in the final immunity challenge and outlast Danni, she ultimately lost, becoming emotional over her failure. Rafe informed Danni that she did not have to stay true to their previous deal, and at the following Tribal Council, Danni eliminated Rafe. The jury at the Final Tribal Council considered that Stephenie has played a more devious game than Danni and had backstabbed several of them, and ultimately gave Danni's more social play the win, six votes to one.\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n"}
{"id": "1893281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893281", "title": "Blake Prize", "text": "Blake Prize\n\nThe Blake Prize is an Australian art prize which has been operating since 1951. It was awarded annually from 1951 to 2015, and from 2016 has been biennial. \nThe prize was established in Sydney in 1949 as an incentive to raise the standard of religious art. Founded by R. Morley, the Reverend Michael Scott SJ (Headmaster of Campion Hall, Point Piper, and subsequently Rector of Aquinas College, University of Adelaide), and lawyer M. Tenison, it was named after the artist and poet William Blake. The first Blake Prize was won by Justin O'Brien in 1951.\n\nThe Blake Exhibitions have been a regular travelling exhibition around Australia, visiting various major cities and provincial galleries.\n\nThe award of the Blake Prize to Charles Bannon in 1954 for his \"Judas Iscariot\" was one of the most controversial in its history; this opened controversy over what constituted religious art and over \"abstract expressionism\" which threatened to overwhelm the exhibition.\n\nIn 2008 the Blake Society established the Blake Poetry Prize to link art and literature and to give Australian poets new possibilities to explore the nature of spirituality in the 21st century. The Blake Poetry Prize is presented in association with Writing NSW.\n\nThe prize was administered by the Blake Society, in 2016 the Casula Powerhouse arts centre took over the prize now focuses on the broader spiritual arts rather than religious art. Casula Powerhouse also administer the Blake Poetry Prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893283", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893283", "title": "Coincya wrightii", "text": "Coincya wrightii\n\nCoincya wrightii, known as Lundy cabbage, is a species of primitive brassicoid, endemic to the island of Lundy off the southwestern coast of England, where it is sufficiently isolated to have formed its own species, with its endemic insect pollinators. \"Coincya wrightii\" grows natively only on the eastern cliffs and slopes of the island and nowhere else in the world and is a protected species. It reaches up to a metre in height and with its yellow flowers (seen from May to August) it looks a little similar to oil seed rape. Although it is a member of the cabbage family, it tastes unpleasant – it has been described as \"triple-distilled essence of Brussels sprout\".\n\nThe Lundy cabbage is unique in that two species of beetles that feed on it – the Lundy cabbage flea beetle (\"Psylliodes luridipennis\") and the Lundy cabbage weevil (\"Ceutorhynchus contractus pallipes\") – also occur nowhere else in the world. The number of Lundy cabbages varies from year to year. Grazing by goats, sheep and rabbits is a problem, along with suppression by the invasive alien \"Rhododendron\" bushes that have been spreading across the island.\n\nIt is an excellent example of isolation on an island leading to the production of unique species.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893284", "title": "Genesius of Rome", "text": "Genesius of Rome\n\nGenesius of Rome is a legendary Christian saint, once a comedian and actor who had performed in plays that mocked Christianity. According to legend, while performing in a play that made fun of baptism, he had an experience on stage that converted him. He proclaimed his new belief, and he steadfastly refused to renounce it, even when the emperor Diocletian ordered him to do so.\n\nGenesius is considered the patron saint of actors, lawyers, barristers, clowns, comedians, converts, dancers, people with epilepsy, musicians, printers, stenographers, and victims of torture. His feast day is August 25.\n\nOne day Genesius, leader of a theatrical troupe in Rome, was performing before the Roman Emperor Diocletian. Intending to expose Christian religious rites to ridicule by his audience, he pretended to receive the Sacrament of Baptism.\n\nAs the play continued, however, Genesius suddenly lay on the stage as if very ill. Two performers asked what was wrong. Genesius said he felt as if a weight was on his chest and he wanted it removed. Two actors, dressed as a priest and exorcist, were called on stage. He said he had had a vision of angels bearing a book listing all of his sins. The \"priest\" asked, \"My child, why did you send for me?\" Genesius said he could still see angels and asked to be baptized right there. The \"priest\" did so. Enraged, Diocletian had him arrested and sent to Plautia, prefect of the praetorium, to be tortured. Despite his agonies, Genesius persisted in his faith, and he was finally ordered to be beheaded.\n\nGenesius is said to have been buried in the Cemetery of St. Hippolytus on the Via Tiburtina. His relics are claimed to be kept in San Giovanni della Pigna, Santa Susanna di Termini, and the chapel of St. Lawrence. His legend was dramatized in the fifteenth century. It was embodied later in the oratorio \"Polus Atella\" of Löwe, and more recently in a play by Weingartner. The accuracy of the Acts, dating from the seventh century, is very questionable, though it was defended by Tillemont (\"Mémoires\", IV s. v. Genesius). Nevertheless, Genesius was venerated at Rome as early as the Fourth Century. A church was built in his honor, and it was repaired and beautified by Pope Gregory III in 741. A gold glass portrait of him dating to the Fourth Century also exists.\n\nThe veneration of St Genesius continues today, and the actor-martyr is considered the patron of actors and acting societies, including those that assist actors. The British Catholic Stage Guild regards him as their patron saint, and the Shrine of St. Genesius in Saint Malachy's Roman Catholic Church in the New York City Borough of Manhattan, serves as a spiritual landmark for the city's acting community. As the patron saint of epilepsy, many thus afflicted turn to him for his help. Because he is associated with stagecraft, Genesius is also venerated by stage magicians and illusionists. He is one of the patrons of the Catholic Magicians' Guild.\n\nA Genesian Theatre in Sydney, Australia hosts six seasons each year and is the centre of a vibrant amateur acting community. Other amateur companies around the world also use his name, including the Genesius Guild of Hammond, Indiana, which hosts an average of four productions each year and an annual children's theater camp, the Genesius Theater of Reading, Pennsylvania, basis for the Lincoln Center production of Douglas Carter Beane's \"Shows for Days\" starring Patti LuPone, Saint Genesius Productions of Villa Park, Illinois, a youth theatre group that aims to build leadership and community through the theatre arts. Genesius Studios, a film production company in New York, New York founded by a group of traveling actors, whose slogan is \"Freedom of Thought\" and whose focus is producing motion pictures with wayward, lost protagonists and anti-heroes who often find something inside themselves worth standing for in tales of self-discovery, hubris and redemption, among other notably relative themes, and the Genesius Guild and Foundation in the Quad Cities in the United States, which focuses on classical Greek Drama.\n\nA new association in the Roman Catholic Church, \"The Fraternity of St Genesius\", has been founded under this Saint's patronage. It aims to support men and women who work in theatre and cinema.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893285", "title": "Ron Garvin", "text": "Ron Garvin\n\nRoger Barnes (born March 30, 1945) is a Canadian retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, \"Rugged\" Ronnie Garvin. He is best known for his appearances with Mid-Atlantic Championship Wrestling and the World Wrestling Federation in the late-1980s and early-1990s. Championships held by Garvin over his career include the NWA World Heavyweight Championship.\n\nBarnes started wrestling in 1962 under his birthname. In the mid-1960s he adopted the ring name \"Ron Garvin\" and formed a tag team with Terry Garvin, who was billed as being his brother. The duo teamed throughout the late-1960s and early-1970s, winning several regional tag team championships. They were managed by their other \"brother,\" Jimmy Garvin (actually Ron's stepson in real life). In the mid 1980s, Ronnie and Jimmy had a heated feud with the Rougeaus in International Wrestling in Montreal, Garvin's hometown.\n\nGarvin made a name for himself as a singles wrestler in the Georgia, Alabama, Kentucky, and Tennessee territories in the late 1970s after splitting with Terry and Jimmy. Garvin wrestled in the Ron Fuller (Welch)-owned Knoxville promotion (Southeastern Championship Wrestling) where he (in)famously threw the championship belt off of the Gay Street Bridge. He later wrestled in Angelo Poffo's International Championship Wrestling promotion where he was best known for his heated rivalries with Randy Savage and Pez Whatley. One of Garvin's best-known ICW moments was where he knocked Ox Baker's dentures out of his mouth, after which Garvin stomped on the dentures. Garvin is well known in the Southeast, he had feuds with such wrestlers as Andre the Giant, Bob Orton Jr., and Tony Charles. For a time, Garvin used a gimmick known as Mr. Knoxville and formed a tag team with Charles, but soon Garvin turned on him and started teaming with Orton, turning heel in the process. Garvin held the NWA Georgia Television Title (also known as the National TV Title) 5 times, including a feud with then Legion of Doom member, Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts. At one point during the storyline, Jake Roberts held the TV title and refused to give Garvin a rematch. Garvin had to mortgage his house to come up with $10,000 to pay Roberts for a rematch. Garvin would go on to win the rematch and once again become the NWA National TV champion.\n\nGarvin then joined the National Wrestling Alliance's Jim Crockett Promotions, where he would achieve his greatest success. He became known as \"The Man With the Hands of Stone.\" He feuded with Tully Blanchard and Black Bart. He also formed a tag team with Barry Windham and the duo won the NWA United States Tag Team Championship from Ivan Koloff and Kruscher Kruschev before losing the belts to Koloff and Dick Murdoch.\n\nIn particular, Garvin feuded with Jim Cornette's \"Midnight Express\" team of \"Lover Boy\" Dennis Condrey and \"Beautiful\" Bobby Eaton. At Starrcade '85 Garvin teamed with Jimmy Valiant to face the Midnight Express in an Atlanta Street Fight; for this match Garvin wrestled in drag as \"Miss Atlanta Lively.\" Garvin also had a singles feud with Cornette's bodyguard, Big Bubba Rogers to whom he lost a Street Fight at Starrcade '86.\n\nIn 1987 Windham and Garvin feuded with Cornette's Midnight Express (still composed of Condrey and Eaton) over the United States tag titles. During one televised match, after Cornette threw fire in Garvin's face, Garvin's \"brother\" \"Gorgeous\" Jimmy Garvin came to his rescue, turning both himself and his valet Precious babyface in the process. The Garvin \"brothers\" teamed for a while against the Midnight Express. In May 1987 Windham and Garvin reached the finals of a tournament for the vacant United States tag team titles but lost to the new Midnight Express lineup of Eaton and \"Sweet\" Stan Lane. The two teams continued to feud over the titles, with the Garvins getting pinfall wins in non-title matches, or DQ wins when the titles were on the line.\n\nThe Garvins next entered in a feud with NWA World Champion Ric Flair in 1987 over Flair's lust for Precious. On one occasion when Flair defeated Jimmy to win a date with Precious, he was instead ambushed by Ron Garvin once again in drag as Miss Atlanta Lively. During this feud, Flair once stated that Garvin had \"\"hands of stone\",\" This eventually led to Garvin's first moniker in wrestling, \"\"The Man With the Hands of Stone\".\"\n\nThe feud with Flair took a new twist on September 25, 1987, when Garvin was able to defeat Flair for the title. With the NWA holding the 1987 Starrcade the same day WWF was holding its first Survivor Series, Crockett chose to face the strong WWF competition by having Flair win the title. Flair therefore had to lose the title first and whoever beat him would only be an interim champion. Most wrestlers declined the offer, but Garvin, assuming that at 42 it may be his last chance to hold the major NWA title, accepted to fill the role. Indeed, Garvin held the title for two months before losing it back to Flair at Starrcade.\n\nAfter the title loss, the Garvins entered into a feud with Kevin Sullivan and his Varsity Club. At the Great American Bash, the brothers teamed with The Road Warriors and Steve Williams and defeated Sullivan, Mike Rotunda, Al Perez, Russian Assassin and Ivan Koloff in a Tower of Doom match. Later that night however, Ron Garvin shocked fans when he became a heel by knocking Dusty Rhodes out with a punch to keep him from winning Windham's U.S. Title, thus reuniting the former US tag team champions as heels. Garvin was managed by Gary Hart but left after only a few months as a heel before the August 12th card in Norfolk, VA after a disagreement.\n\nStill as a heel, Garvin wrestled in the American Wrestling Association in late 1988 and feuded with Greg Gagne over the AWA International Television Championship. He also feuded with Carlos Colon over the WWC Universal Heavyweight Championship during trips to Puerto Rico.\n\nGarvin next went to the World Wrestling Federation wrestling as a fan favorite under the name \"Rugged\" Ronnie Garvin. At the Royal Rumble (1989) he competed in the Royal Rumble match but got eliminated by André the Giant. He lost to Dino Bravo at WrestleMania V on April 2, 1989. He then went on to feud with Greg Valentine. After a televised match between the two on April 22, 1989, which Garvin won, Valentine was interviewed immediately afterwards and challenged Garvin a retirement match the next week, which Valentine won. Garvin soon started portraying a referee, but during matches, he would fight with the wrestlers who would not listen to his orders, such as Dino Bravo and the Brooklyn Brawler. Despite warnings by WWF president Jack Tunney, Garvin punched Valentine during his match against Jimmy Snuka, which led to him being banned from refereeing.\n\nAt SummerSlam, Garvin served as special ring announcer for Valentine's match against Hercules. Garvin stated during his foe's introduction that Valentine was underweighing himself by 30 pounds, and had two left feet. When Valentine pinned Hercules with his feet on the ropes, Garvin announced Hercules as the winner. Valentine knocked him out of the ring, but Garvin came back and punched him out. Irate at Garvin's antics, Valentine asked that Garvin be reinstated so that he could get his hands on him. For the next four months the two had house show matches all over the country, trading victories in the process. The two then battled at the 1990 Royal Rumble in a Submission match, which Garvin won to end the feud. At Survivor Series (1989), Garvin competed in a 4-on-4 Survivor Series elimination match where he was a member of The 4x4s (Jim Duggan, Bret Hart, Garvin and Hercules) but they were defeated by The King's Court (Randy Savage, Canadian Earthquake, Dino Bravo and Greg Valentine). After his feud ended with Valentine, Garvin was about to feud with Rick Martel. They cut promos on each other, but a televised match between the two never happened. They did, however, wrestle at house shows. Garvin left the WWF in November 1990.\n\nIn the early 1990s, he wrestled in Jim Cornette's Smoky Mountain Wrestling promotion where he feuded with Paul Orndorff and Kevin Sullivan, among others.\n\nIn 1993, Garvin wrestled at Archer Park in Prestonsburg, Kentucky during the annual 4 July carnival.\n\nHe returned to the independents, mainly in The Carolinas, on a semi-retired basis and could still be found in 2005 as a wrestler or special referee in the Mid-Atlantic area.\n\nIn 2011, \"Rugged\" Ronnie Garvin competed in the Legends Battle Royale at JCW:Icons and Legends entering the match third before being eliminated by Viscera.\n\nGarvin owns several used car dealerships in Gaston County, North Carolina. Garvin is an accomplished pilot (his stepson, Jimmy Garvin, became an airline pilot in his retirement from wrestling). He holds commercial and instrument ratings for single engine and multi engine aircraft.\n\nBarnes' stepson, Jimmy Garvin, is also a wrestler.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893286", "title": "Mineko Iwasaki", "text": "Mineko Iwasaki\n\nAmerican author Arthur Golden interviewed her for background information when writing his 1997 book, \"Memoirs of a Geisha\". Iwasaki later regretted interviewing for Golden, having cited a breach of confidentiality and later sued and settled out of court with Golden for the parallelism between his book and her life. She later released her own autobiography titled \"Geisha of Gion\" (UK) or \"Geisha: A Life\" (USA) in 2002.\nBorn as Masako Tanaka, she left home at the age of four to begin studying traditional Japanese dance at the Iwasaki \"okiya\" (geisha house) in the Gion district of Kyoto. She was legally adopted by the okiya's owner, Madame Oima, and began using their family name of Iwasaki. She had been chosen as the house's \"atotori\", or heir. Iwasaki became a \"maiko\" (apprentice geiko) at age 15. She also received the name Mineko, as prescribed by a Japanese fortune-teller. By age 16, she had earned a reputation as Japan's most popular maiko and finally became a geiko on her 21st birthday.\n\nAccording to her autobiography, Iwasaki worked herself to her physical and mental limits. She developed a near-fatal kidney condition but recovered. She entertained numerous celebrities and foreign dignitaries including United Kingdom's Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Charles. Iwasaki's fame also made her the subject of jealousy and gossip, and she was sometimes faced with sexual harassment and assault.\n\nAfter the death of one of her most significant mentors in 1980, Iwasaki became increasingly frustrated with the tradition-bound world of the geiko, especially inadequacies in the education system. Iwasaki unexpectedly retired at the height of her career, at the age of 29. She hoped that her decision would shock Gion into reform; however, even after over 70 other high ranking geiko followed her into early retirement, nothing was changed. In her autobiography, Iwasaki speculates that the profession may be doomed if the industry fails to adapt to changing economic and social circumstance. She transitioned to a career in art after she married artist Jin'ichirō Satō in 1982. Their child, Kosuke, was born in 1983.\n\nIwasaki was one of several geisha author Arthur Golden interviewed while researching his novel \"Memoirs of a Geisha\". According to Iwasaki, she agreed to speak with Golden on the condition that her involvement would be kept confidential, but Golden revealed her identity by mentioning her name in the book's acknowledgments as well as several national interviews. After \"Memoirs\" was published, Iwasaki received criticism and even death threats for violating the traditional geisha code of silence.\n\nIwasaki felt betrayed by Golden's use of information she considered confidential, as well as the way he twisted reality. She denounced \"Memoirs of a Geisha\" as being an inaccurate depiction of the life of a geisha. Iwasaki was particularly offended by the novel's portrayal of geiko engaging in ritualized prostitution. For example, in the novel the main character Sayuri's virginity (called \"mizuage\" in the novel) is auctioned off to the highest bidder. Iwasaki stated that, not only did this never happen to her, but that no such custom ever existed in Gion.\n\nPart of Iwasaki's displeasure with \"Memoirs\" may have been because the character Sayuri seems obviously modeled on Iwasaki, with many of the book's main characters and events having parallels in Iwasaki's life. These people and experiences are often portrayed negatively in \"Memoirs\", even when their real-life counterparts were positive for Iwasaki.\n\nIwasaki later gave public interviews citing that many established geiko criticized her interview with Arthur Golden, causing a rupture with the geisha tradition of secrecy to the outside world. Furthermore, Iwasaki has mentioned that she had lost some friends and relationships due to the scandal of her being known due to the book, along with certain inconsistencies and fallacies about Gion which were mentioned in \"Memoirs of a Geisha\".\n\nIwasaki sued Golden for breach of contract and defamation of character in 2001, which was settled out of court in 2003.\n\nAfter the publication of \"Memoirs of a Geisha\", Iwasaki decided to write an autobiography, contrasting with the fiction of Golden's book. Her book, co-authored by Rande Gail Brown and published as \"Geisha: A Life\" in the US and \"Geisha of Gion\" in the UK, detailed her experiences before, during and after her time as a geiko to the outside world. It became a worldwide bestseller.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893291", "title": "John Clark Ridpath", "text": "John Clark Ridpath\n\nJohn Clark Ridpath (April 26, 1840 – July 31, 1900) was an American educator, historian, and editor. His mother was a descendant of Samuel Matthews, a colonial governor of Virginia.\n\nHe was born near the village of Fillmore, Indiana, in Putnam County, Indiana. His parents were from the part of Virginia that is now West Virginia, and began life under circumstances of great discouragement and hardship. The son had no early educational advantages besides those that he obtained at frontier schools, but his appetite for books was insatiable, and at seventeen he was a teacher.\n\nAt nineteen he entered Indiana Asbury College (later DePauw University), where he graduated with the highest honors of his class. He was a member of Phi Gamma Delta fraternity, as well. Before graduation he had been elected to an instructorship in the Thorntown, Indiana academy, and in 1864, he was made its principal. This office he held until 1867, when he was chosen to fill the chair of languages at Baker University, Baldwin City, Kansas. During the same period he served as superintendent of the Lawrenceburg, Indiana public schools.\n\nIn 1869 he was elected professor of English literature in Asbury College, and two years later he was assigned to the chair of belles-lettres and history of the same institution. In 1879 he was elected vice-president of the university, and he was largely the originator of the measures by which that institution was placed under the patronage of Washington C. DePauw, and took his name. In 1880 he received the degree of LL. D. from Syracuse University.\n\nIn 1885 Ridpath left his position at the University to devote himself more to writing.\nIn the later 1890s, he was editor of a magazine called \"The Arena\".\nHe wrote biographies of James G. Blaine, James A. Garfield, William Ewart Gladstone, and James Otis. His popular volumes of history were successful, and reissued many times.\n\nHis publications include:\n\n\nRidpath died at Presbyterian Hospital in New York City, in 1900, from \"a complication of diseases.\" His body was taken from the hospital by the Stephen Merritt Burial Company.\n\nToday, in Greencastle, Indiana, next to DePauw University, stands Ridpath Primary School. Ridpath Primary School was named after his sister Martha.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893296", "title": "Music of Kalmykia", "text": "Music of Kalmykia\n\nKalmykia is a national republic within the Russian Federation. The music of Kalmykia has its roots in the musical culture of Oirats which is part of Mongolian nation. Traditional instruments include the dombra, which is used to accompany dance music. The state folk ensemble Tulpan was formed in 1937 to promote traditional Kalmyk music.\n\nEpic bard and throat singer Okna Tsagaan Zam is a Kalmyk that performs the ancient Oirat epic Jangar. He usually accompanies himself on the dombra, but has been known to have the accompaniment of the Mongolian morin huur while singing the epic.\n\nhttps://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7VeP5HSz9P4\n\n"}
{"id": "1893297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893297", "title": "Evanston Township High School", "text": "Evanston Township High School\n\nEvanston Township High School (ETHS) District 202, is a four-year public high school occupying a campus in Evanston, Illinois, a north suburb of Chicago along the Lake Michigan shore. ETHS was established in 1883 and serves the city of Evanston and a small portion of the neighboring village of Skokie for a total district population of approximately 78,000.\n\nThe attendance area of the school is home to Northwestern University and Oakton Community College. Evanston Township High School has 589 certified staff members. ETHS is fully accredited by the State of Illinois.\nThe first high school in Evanston, the Preparatory School of Northwestern University, established in 1857, was a private institute. In 1873, public school superintendent Otis E. Haven began teaching Evanston's first public high school class in an upper room of the Benson Avenue School. In 1875, Evanston's first Board of Education voted to establish a \"high school\" in the room, and the first class, consisting of two students, graduated in 1876. Enrollments grew rapidly and, despite multiple relocations to various buildings, by 1882 the school took four prizes in a statewide competition and was ranked third best in Illinois. Shortly thereafter, voters in April 1882, passed a referendum and bond issue establishing a township school. Construction began promptly in October 1882, and the first building opened in 1883, at Dempster and Elmwood.\n\nEnrollment grew rapidly and by 1913, despite multiple additions to the original building, 740 students occupied space meant for only 600. Crowding increased as several attempts to pass bond issues for further addition were defeated at the polls. In 1915, the Board determined to build a new school at a new location, but progress was stalled for years by a bitter fight over the campus location, which included lawsuits that went all the way to the Illinois Supreme Court. Finally, in 1921, the Board and voters approved a site at the school's current campus, 1600 Dodge Avenue in central Evanston. Construction began in 1923, and the school opened in 1924 although still incomplete.\n\nWith a campus currently listed as 65 acres (263,000 m²), ETHS provides its students with many technically proficient facilities. With more than 1.2 million square feet indoors, it is the largest high school facility under one roof in the United States. The school's science facilities include a planetarium, greenhouse, and a two-acre (8,000 m²), on-site nature center/classroom. The South Technology Center (STC), formerly the Bacon Computer Center, houses over 200 computers in seven networked labs. Computer software is available for many courses in the curriculum. Near the school is the Edible Acre urban farming project, initiated by The Talking Farm, which is run with the help of ETHS volunteers during the growing season.\n\nStudents investigate careers in computer-based SMART Labs. An on-site day-care center serves as a lab for child-study classes. Career and Technical Education offers courses that prepare students for future career possibilities. Classes include Child Development, Business Management, Culinary Arts, where students work hands on with food, and learn how to prepare it in a safe and sanitary way, and Auto-Tech, where students run an auto-repair lab and learn engineering applications in computer-aided design, lasers and robotics using state-of-the-art equipment. Music students have their own computer lab with MIDI-enabled equipment.\n\nThe school's library, which is networked to all Illinois libraries, has a 90,000-volume collection and extensive audiovisual resources. Performance facilities include a 1,500-seat auditorium, two additional theaters, and a cable TV broadcasting studio.\n\nThere are 15 gyms, a dance studio and fitness/wellness center, two swimming pools, and a field-house with an indoor track and tennis courts. Outdoor facilities include a new track, as well as a FieldTurf stadium, baseball and soccer fields and 18 tennis courts.\n\nEvanston Township High School is a very large co-ed Title I public school with a very diverse student body, both racially and economically. From official data in 2013-14, there were 2,959 students enrolled. Of these students, 1,100 were eligible for free lunch, and 91 for reduced lunch. In recent years, enrollment has increased and become more diverse.\n\nThe school reported that the 2015-16 school year reflected \"the highest enrollment number (3,322) over the last five years at ETHS... ETHS also recorded its highest enrollment of students who identify as Hispanic/Latino in the history of the school. The proportion of Black/African American students (29.5% in 2015-16) has remained steady at ETHS for the past five years while the proportion of Hispanic/Latino students at the main campus has increased from the prior year (about 18% in 2015-2016 compared to 17% in 2014-2015). The proportion of White students decreased to 43.6% in 2015-16 compared to 44.7% in 2014-2015. Additionally, the percentage of Asian students at the main campus has increased slightly in 2015-16 to 5.2% and the percentage of students identified as two or more races declined in 2015-16 to 3.3%, compared to 4.2% in 2014-15.\" ETHS also provides a transitional program for refugees from around the world.\n\nSome classes, including most required freshman courses, are taught at a mixed level, allowing all students to earn honors credit, while others are differentiated between regular, honors, and advanced levels. The school offers 34 courses for Advanced Placement credit, as well as 9 nationally recognized Project Lead the Way (PLTW) engineering courses. Students who have exhausted all of the available accelerated courses in an academic area at ETHS may take advanced courses for college credit at Northwestern University through a special scholarship program. Some years Northwestern faculty teaches advanced mathematics students at ETHS. ETHS is listed as a gold medal school under U.S. News & World Report's 2016 list of America's 500 Best High Schools, at #452 nationally and #13 in the state.\n\nNinety-three percent of the students from the Class of 2015 (723 students) took the ACT. ETHS students continue to score higher than the state and national average.\n\nEvanston Township High School is the only high school in the U.S. to claim a Wildkit as its mascot. Known as \"Willie the Wildkit\", the mascot represents the unique heritage of the only public high school in Evanston, Illinois. \"Wildkits\" is a playful reference to Northwestern University's Willie the Wildcat, a mascot that was adopted by the prestigious university in the 1920s. Evanston Township High School's Willie the Wildkit mascot appears to have originated during the 1946-47 academic year. Northwestern and ETHS are known to share a \"town-gown pride\" that is evident through partnerships in the classroom and in other areas. Most notably, Northwestern announced in January 2017 that its women's basketball and women's volleyball teams would play at ETHS' Beardsley Gym in the 2017–18 school year while Welsh–Ryan Arena, the regular home of both teams, was renovated.\n\nETHS is a member of the Central Suburban League, and participates in state championship tournaments sponsored by the Illinois High School Association (IHSA). ETHS has 35 IHSA State Championships.\n\nEach year, more than 1,000 students participate on 100 sports team in 31 different sports in basketball, bowling, cross country, golf, gymnastics, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, volleyball, and water polo. Boys may compete in baseball, football, and wrestling. Girls may compete in badminton, cheerleading, lacrosse and softball.\n\nETHS offers 19 no-cut sports at the freshman level to provide 9th grade students with an opportunity to try sports for the first time.\n\nWhile not sponsored by the IHSA, ETHS also sponsors a team for boys in lacrosse. Both boys and girls may also compete as a member of the pom pom team (Pomkits). As well as on a Varsity Sailing Team, which competes at regattas throughout the country.\n\nThe following teams have placed in the top four of their respective IHSA sponsored state championship tournament:\n\nAs of 2009, the Evanston boys swimming team has 53 top ten finishes in the state finals; the second highest number of top ten finishes in state history. The boys track & field team, similarly, has 47 top ten finishes, the second highest number of any team in the state. The 25 top ten finishes by the girls track & field team is, however, a state record.\n\nThe following competitive teams have finished in the top four of their respective IHSA Sponsored state championships:\n\n\nThe 8 state titles and 23 top 10 finishes in chess is the Illinois state record.\n\nStudents compete in contests in math, science, forensics, world languages, speech, writing, and many other subjects. Examples include the Geometry Bridge Building Contest, the Regional Science Bowl Competition of the Society of Hispanic Engineers, and National Council of Teachers of English (NCTE) annual essay contest. Students can participate in more than 80 clubs and activities at ETHS, including Ambassadors, Wildkit Buddies, Chess Club, E-Squad Step Team, E-Town Tuners Car Club, ETHS Dance Company, Gender and Sexuality Alliance, Hip Hop Club/Slam Team, Latino QUEST, NAACP, Rock Climbing Club, Mock Trial, Student Council and Senate, Table Tennis Team, and Ultimate Frisbee.<ref name=\"http://www.eths.k12.il.us/Page/155\">History & Fast Facts / Fast Facts</ref>\n\nETHS hosts 3 dances during the school year: Homecoming Dance, Frosh/Soph Formal (grades 9-10), and Senior Prom (grade 12). Student-led publications include the national award-winning Evanstonian newspaper, the EvanstONION satirical newspaper, the Paper Clip, and the award-winning school yearbook, The Key. ETHS has four honor societies: the Lighthouse Chapter of the National Honor Society (juniors and seniors), the ETHS Chapter of the Tri-M Music Honor Society (juniors and seniors), and ETHS-based honor societies (sophomores and freshmen). Student vocal and instrumental music groups and theater companies perform at least one public performance a month.<ref name=\"http://www.eths.k12.il.us/Page/155\">History & Fast Facts / Fast Facts</ref>\n\nSince 2014, ETHS musical ensembles have performed at the prestigious Midwest Clinic; the University of Illinois SuperState Festival at the Krannert Center for the Performing Arts; the ILMEA's annual Illinois Music Education Conference; and the Louisville Jazz Festival. In February, the school hosts a regional jazz music festival attended by nearly 50 schools, featuring performances, clinics, and an evening concert with a guest artist.\n\nEvanston Township has an extensive theatre department that puts on a total of 7 shows each year (5 Mainstage and 2 smaller productions).\nThe department always puts on their annual student directed and written comedy revue \"YAMO\". They then go onto put on a fall play, and a winter play following that. After the 2 plays they put on their big musical, then finish the year out with a smaller spring play which is sometimes a short play festival written and directed by students in the Advanced Theatre 3/4 class.\n\nYAMO is the annual musical sketch comedy variety show at ETHS. Student written, produced, directed, and acted, creating a YAMO is a 9-month process beginning when the student governing board is selected and culminating in a seven-show run every October. Many notable ETHS alums from the performing arts such as Zach Gilford, Jessie Mueller, Lauren Lapkus, and Anders Holm have performed in and/or directed YAMO. In 2017, YAMO celebrated its sixtieth anniversary since its founding as a fundraiser talent show in 1958.\n\nStudents from Evanston captured the IHSA State Championship in Speech in 1951, Policy Debate in 1968, 1971, 1979, 1993, and 1995, Lincoln-Douglas Debate in 2004, 2014, and 2015, and Public Forum Debate in 2015. ETHS is the first school to ever hold the Public Forum and Lincoln-Douglas titles in the same year.\n\nThe ETHS Speech and Debate program has risen to national prominence in the last half decade. The Debate team earned its first National Speech and Debate Association (formerly the National Forensic League) National Championship in 2012 in Congressional Debate. In 2015, the team captured two more national titles when it won the NCFL Grand National Tournament in Lincoln-Douglas debate and the NSDA National Championship in Extemporaneous Debate. In 2014, ETHS was named a National Debate School of Excellence by the NSDA, indicating that Evanston had placed among the top twenty schools at the NSDA National Championship Tournament.\n\nThe team sponsors an annual debate tournament, the \"Superb Owl\".\n\nETHS participates in the Illinois State Bar Association Mock Trial program. With an A and B team, the Mock Trial team is open and inviting to all Evanston students. With a long-standing future of placing in the top eight at the Illinois State Tournament, the ETHS Mock Trial team is an esteemed and successful group of students. In March, the team travels to Champaign, IL to compete with other Illinois high school's teams for the first-place position which travels to Nationals.\n\nSome notable alumni include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893305", "title": "Martin Eric Ain", "text": "Martin Eric Ain\n\nMartin Eric Ain (born Martin Erich Stricker, July 18, 1967 – October 21, 2017) was best known for being the former bassist of the influential extreme metal band Celtic Frost. He used the stage name Martin Eric Ain throughout his career in Celtic Frost. He died on October 21, 2017 following a heart attack.\nHe was born in the United States and spoke English as a first language.\n\nAfter amassing a small fortune in the 1980s from Celtic Frost's success, he became an entrepreneur. He owned a successful DVD shop and bar in Zurich called Acapulco.\n\nAin was a co-owner of the music club Mascotte, which has become well known for hosting upcoming international bands. Since 2004, he had become the host of the \"Karaoke from Hell\" show, taking place every Tuesday night at the Mascotte Club.\n\nAin sang the lead vocals for the song \"A Dying God Coming into Human Flesh\" on Celtic Frost's final album, \"Monotheist\". He played a left-handed Warwick bass.\n\n2012 the project \"Graber - Lieder zum Schluss\" was released, a project he worked on with long time friend Jan Graber.\n\n2017 he collaborated with Swiss composer Balz Trümpy and Samuel Trümpy on \"Der Dorn\" which was released 2018. \"Der Dorn\" was released on a 7-inch vinyl, limited to 222 units.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893312", "title": "Nicaragua at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Nicaragua at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nNicaragua competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States.\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nWomen's 5,000 metres\n\nNicaragua's debut performance at the Olympic baseball tournament resulted in a semifinal run for the team. They defeated Italy, Australia, South Korea, and the Netherlands in the preliminary round, losing to the three eventual medallists Cuba, Japan, and the United States. This put the Nicaraguans in fourth place for the preliminary round, setting up a semifinal match against Cuba. This game resulted in extending Cuba's winning streak to 17 games, and relegating Nicaragua to the bronze medal game, which it lost to the United States.\n\n\nMen's Half-Middleweight\n\nMen's Heavyweight\n\nMen's Air Rifle (10 metres)\n\nMen's 200 Butterfly\n\nMen's 200m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 400m Individual Medley\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893314", "title": "Rorty", "text": "Rorty\n\nRorty may refer to: \n"}
{"id": "1893319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893319", "title": "Grist (magazine)", "text": "Grist (magazine)\n\nGrist (originally Grist Magazine; also referred to as Grist.org) is an American non-profit online magazine that has been publishing environmental news and commentary since 1999. \"Grist\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s taglines are \"Gloom and doom with a sense of humor\" and \"A beacon in the smog\". \"Grist\" is headquartered in Seattle, Washington, and has 35 writers and employees. Its CEO is former state representative Brady Walkinshaw.\n\n\"Grist\" offers reporting, interviews, opinion pieces, daily news, book reviews, food and agricultural coverage, and green advice. Its stated mission is \"to inform, entertain, provoke, and encourage its readers to think creatively about environmental problems and solutions.\"\n\nRegular features include \"Ask Umbra,\" an environmental advice column by Umbra Fisk and the \"Grist List,\" covering green celebrities and pop culture. Grist also summarizes the day's environmentally related news events in daily and weekly email newsletters.\n\nMain writers include David Roberts, Lisa Hymas, and Sarah Goodyear.\n\nIn an article for \"Time\" magazine, Eric Roston, a \"Grist\" contributor, referred to \"Grist\" as, \"\"The Colbert Report\" of climate change, \"The Daily Show\" of deforestation, the Oprah of oil dependency -- except with real reporting and analytical journalism.\"\n\nChip Giller is the founder and former president of \"Grist\". Giller received the Heinz Award for founding \"Grist\" in 2009. In 2004, he received the Jane Bagley Lehman Award for Excellence in Public Advocacy, from the Tides Foundation in recognition of the role \"Grist\" is playing in increasing environmental awareness. Giller took first place in the 2001 AlterNet New Media Hero contest for his work on \"Grist\" and was one of five finalists for the Environmental Grantmakers Association's 2002 \"Environmental Messenger of the Year Award.\" Giller was previously the editor of \"Greenwire\", the first environmental news daily, and a reporter for \"High Country News\", a biweekly newspaper covering Western environmental issues. \n\nBrady Walkinshaw, a former state representative from Seattle, was hired as Grist's CEO in March 2017. Walkinshaw unsuccessfully campaigned to represent the Washington's 7th congressional district in 2016 on a platform of controlling carbon emissions, among issues.\n\n\"Grist\" is registered as a non-profit 501C3 business entity. For fiscal year 2011, Grist reported revenues of $3,700,490, expenses of $3,022,290, and total assets of $2,028,447.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893321", "title": "Pike Creek", "text": "Pike Creek\n\nPike Creek may refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893324", "title": "Gennaro Lombardi", "text": "Gennaro Lombardi\n\nGennaro Lombardi was an Italian immigrant who moved to the United States in 1897, and known for opening the first pizzeria in the United States, Lombardi's. He opened a small grocery store in New York City's Little Italy. An employee of his, Antonio Totonno Pero, also an Italian immigrant, began making pizza for the store to sell. Their pizza became so popular that Lombardi opened the first US pizzeria in 1905, naming it simply Lombardi's.\n\nAlthough Lombardi was influenced by the pies of Naples, he was forced to adapt pizza to Americans. The wood-fired ovens and \"mozzarella di bufala\" were substituted with coal powered ovens and \"fior di latte\" (made from cow's milk), and so began the evolution of the American Pie. In 1924, Totonno left Lombardi's and followed the expanding New York City Subway lines to Coney Island, where he opened Totonno's.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893333", "title": "Greg Camp", "text": "Greg Camp\n\nGregory Dean Camp (born April 2, 1967) is an American Grammy Award-nominated songwriter, guitarist, and vocalist. He is best known as the founding guitarist and songwriter for the rock band Smash Mouth (1994–2008, 2009–2011, 2014, 2018–2019). Camp is credited as the primary songwriter, whose songs catapulted the band to acclaim with hits, awards, and multi-platinum albums. Camp left Smash Mouth after 16 years and has remained an active songwriter and music producer.\n\nCamp was born in West Covina, California, but attended Lynbrook High School in San Jose, California. Before Smash Mouth, he had been a musician in the California rock scene since the 1980s. He was part of several bands including the Gents, when Steve Harwell and Kevin Coleman approached him to form a new band. Camp declined, but Harwell and Coleman persisted, including harassing Camp with a morning pounding on his apartment window, until Camp agreed to look at the songs they had written. They formed Smash Mouth soon after.\n\nCamp has written Smash Mouth's most memorable songs of the later 1990s and early 2000s, including \"Walkin' on the Sun,\" \"All Star,\" and \"Then the Morning Comes\". Camp's song Heave-Ho was about his experience living in San Jose's St Leo neighborhood. He was the guitarist and backing vocalist from when he co-founded the band in 1994 until he left in summer of 2008.\n\nAfter leaving Smash Mouth, Camp released a solo album, \"Defektor\", on Bar/None Records. \"Guitar Player\" wrote that the album \"weaves together everything you love about vintage guitar tones, tortured Farfisa, '60s frat-rock vocal hooks, and epic Moriccone-esque soundscapes.\"\n\nIn June 2009 Camp played a couple of concerts with Smash Mouth, but never rejoined the band. He also plays guitar and sings with Santa Cruz rock band The Maids of Honor and Los Angeles The Selectrics. Camp currently works as a songwriter and producer in Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893336", "title": "Doom (professional wrestling)", "text": "Doom (professional wrestling)\n\nDoom was a professional wrestling tag team composed of Ron Simmons and Butch Reed. They teamed from 1989 to 1991 in the National Wrestling Alliance (NWA) and World Championship Wrestling (WCW).\n\nButch Reed had signed with Jim Crockett Promotions in 1988 after leaving the World Wrestling Federation he was billed as 'Hacksaw' Butch Reed and feuded shortly with the Junkyard Dog. Simmons had been with JCP for a while teaming with Eddie Gilbert but had not achieved much notoriety.\n\nWhen Rick Steiner and Scott Steiner started to team in 1989 a female fan (Robin Green) started following them around, professing her love for the cute and dorky Rick. Steiner's brother Scott and their manager Missy Hyatt began to have suspicions after the woman suddenly changed to a new vampy look. When the woman tripped Scott in the ring, causing him and Rick to lose to champions The Fabulous Freebirds, it briefly caused dissension among the brothers. In the end, she turned on the Steiners, adopting the name Woman and vowed that the brothers would meet their \"doom\" at Halloween Havoc 1989 but never made it clear who or what “Doom” was.\n\nAt the night of the PPV Woman unveiled the Steiner Brothers' Doom – a couple of brawny, hard hitting masked wrestlers. Doom won their debut match against the Steiners when one of the members of Doom pinned Rick Steiner after a headbutt with an illegal object in his mask. Doom followed up on this success by defeating Eddie Gilbert and Tommy Rich at Clash of the Champions IX, looking very strong in the process. At Clash, Woman's new bodyguard Nitron debuted accompanying Doom to the ring.\n\nUnfortunately Doom’s next PPV outing did not come with the same success. Along with the Steiner Brothers, The Road Warriors, and The Samoan Swat Team they were entered in a one night, tag-team round robin tournament but did not score a single point ending dead last in the tournament. Doom’s misfortune continued as Woman soon dropped the team to manage The Four Horsemen. Then on February 6, 1990, at Clash of the Champions X, Doom hit rock bottom when they were defeated by Rick and Scott Steiner and as a result of the stipulation were forced to unmask.\n\nFreed of the masks and now under management of former referee \"The Godfather\" Teddy Long, Doom began to prosper. Being free to use their full move sets and not trying to hide who they were, Doom earned another shot at the Steiner Brothers.\n\nAt Capital Combat Doom shocked the world when they beat the Steiner Brothers, a team that at that point in time did not lose very often. Doom won the tag-team titles and quickly set about defending them against the former champions the Steiners as well the rest of WCW’s very talented tag-team division. Doom defeated The Rock 'n' Roll Express at The Great American Bash 1990 and also mauled such teams as Flyin' Brian & The Z-Man and The Southern Boys. In the fall of 1990 Doom soon got their hands full with The 4 Horsemen after a backstage altercation that saw the arrogant Horsemen insult Doom by not wanting to share a dressing room with them (this of course was a storyline). Doom then turned face and began a feud with The Four Horsemen.\n\nAt Halloween Havoc 1990 \"The Soul Brothers\" Doom held on to their tag-team titles against Ric Flair and Arn Anderson despite both teams being counted out. A no rules rematch was signed for Starrcade 1990 but on the night Ric Flair was replaced by Barry Windham since Flair was slated to wrestle as The Black Scorpion in the main event. Once again the result was a “No Contest”, this time due to a double pin (Windham pinned Simmons and Reed pinned Anderson at the same time) but despite the non-definitive finish the Doom/Horsemen feud ended shortly afterwards.\nAt Clash of the Champions XIV Doom lost a non-title match to Sting and Lex Luger in a match that foreshadowed the trouble that lay ahead for Doom.\n\nOn February 24, 1991 at WCW’s 1991 WrestleWar PPV Doom took on former tag-team champions The Fabulous Freebirds and lost due to miscommunication between Reed and Simmons. After the Freebirds left the ring Reed turned on Simmons and beat him up, turning Simmons face and supposedly ended the team of Doom forever. A month later, however, Reed and Simmons teamed up one more time at Starrcade '91 at Tokyo Dome, losing to the team of Bam Bam Bigelow and Big Van Vader. After the match, Reed and Simmons started brawling, causing NJPW and WCW stars to separate them, indicating Doom was no more.\n\nTeddy Long sided with Butch Reed as the former Doom partners engaged in a short but intense feud. The feud culminated at SuperBrawl I where Ron Simmons pinned Butch Reed in a Steel cage match (referred to as a \"Thunder-Doom\" cage match). After the PPV, Reed left the company allowing Ron Simmons to focus on other opponents while Teddy Long turned face and started to manage other talent in WCW. Long would appear in Simmons' corner occasionally after Ron became WCW World Heavyweight Champion in August 1992.\n\nDoom was briefly reunited on WWE's \"SmackDown\" on a few occasions that involved Teddy Long's wedding. Both Reed and Simmons appeared at Long's bachelor party and both were ushers in the wedding. At both occasions, Doom was mentioned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893342", "title": "Washougal River", "text": "Washougal River\n\nThe Washougal River is a tributary of the Columbia River in the U.S. state of Washington. Its headwaters and upper are in Skamania County in the Gifford Pinchot National Forest, and its lower are in Clark County. The river, which meets the Columbia near the cities of Washougal and Camas, is a popular stream for fishing, swimming, and boating.\n\nExplorers Meriwether Lewis and William Clark referred to the Washougal River as the \"Seal River.\" The name Washougal comes from the Cascades Chinook placename \"[wasiixwal]\" or \"[wasuxal]\", meaning \"rushing water\". It has been suggested that D. B. Cooper, who hijacked a Boeing 727 in 1971 then parachuted from the plane with ransom money, may have landed in the Washougal River basin.\n\nThe Washougal River drains of land that is largely forested, especially in its upper reaches in the Cascade Range and its foothills. Of the total, are in Skamania County, and the remaining are in Clark County. Small farms and rural homes are found along the lower part of the basin, and two small Clark County cities, Camas and Washougal, are at the river mouth. About 63 percent of the watershed is forested; 21 percent is devoted to fields, pastures, bare earth, and shrubland, and 16 percent is developed or cleared for development.\n\nThe water quality of surface streams in the basin is rated \"excellent\" to \"good\", with a few exceptions. State and county officials monitor the lower reaches of the river for signs of trouble such as harmful bacteria, elevated water temperatures, and bank erosion related to forest clearing and other development. Two of the river's tributaries, Jones Creek and Boulder Creek, supply drinking water to Camas.\n\nThe Washougal River, which has no dams, has significant fisheries. The main stem and some of the tributaries support populations of Chinook, chum, and Coho salmon, steelhead, and coastal cutthroat trout. Dougan Falls, from the mouth, blocks most fish migration beyond the waterfall. The Washougal River Greenway in Camas has fishing access, a short walking trail, a boat launch, and picnic sites. Much of the recreation access, including Dougan Falls, now requires a Discover Pass, Washington state's recreation fee pass. A separate parking pass is required for Naked Falls, which is on private land and was closed to the public for several years but has now reopened.\n\nA series of waterfalls, some of them associated with swimming holes, are found along the main stream. From lowermost to uppermost, the named falls include Salmon, Dougan, Naked, Reeder, Stebbins Creek, and Docs Drop. Dougan Falls is a total of high and the largest drop is .\n\nWhitewater enthusiasts run parts of the Washougal River and some of its tributaries. The runs include many stretches rated 4, 5, or 5+ on the International Scale of River Difficulty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893344", "title": "Goldey–Beacom College", "text": "Goldey–Beacom College\n\nGoldey–Beacom College is a private college in Pike Creek Valley, Delaware, United States. Its setting is suburban with a campus size of 24 acres. It utilizes a semester-based academic calendar and the college is authorized to award certificates/diplomas, associate, baccalaureate, master's, and doctoral degrees. It has a community with a global perspective, with alumni from 65 nations and 28 states of the United States.\n\nThe campus has an area of 24 acres (97,000 m²), consisting of four apartment-style residence halls, Fulmer Center (home to classrooms and administrative offices), athletic fields and the Joseph West Jones Center (housing the library, gymnasium, fitness center, cafe, chapel and bookstore).\n\nThe college awards graduate and undergraduate degrees in a number of disciplines including economics, psychology, computer information systems and business. It also offers graduate degrees in business and finance.\n\nGoldey-Beacom is regionally accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education since 1976 to award degrees through the doctoral level. It is also accredited by the Association of Collegiate Business Schools and Programs (ACBSP) and the International Assembly for Collegiate Business Education (IACBE).\n\nThe college competes at NCAA Division II level in all sports as a member of the Central Atlantic Collegiate Conference. Men's sports include basketball, cross country, golf, soccer and track & field. Women's sports include basketball, cross country, softball, soccer, tennis, volleyball and track & field. The college has won 11 CACC titles, competed in 11 NCAA Tournaments and produced five CoSIDA Academic All-Americas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893350", "title": "List of islands of Central America", "text": "List of islands of Central America\n\nThe following is a list of islands of Central America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893354", "title": "Chris Stringer", "text": "Chris Stringer\n\nChristopher Brian \"Chris\" Stringer FRS (born 1947), is a British physical anthropologist noted for his work on human evolution.\n\nGrowing up in a working-class family in the East End of London, Stringer's interest in anthropology began in primary school, where he undertook a project on Neanderthals. Stringer studied anthropology at University College London, holds a PhD in Anatomical Science and a DSc in Anatomical Science (both from Bristol University.\n\nStringer joined the permanent staff of the Natural History Museum in 1973. He is currently Research Leader in Human Origins.\n\nStringer is one of the leading proponents of the recent African origin hypothesis or ″Out of Africa″ theory, which hypothesizes that modern humans originated in Africa over 100,000 years ago and replaced, in some way, the world's archaic humans, such as \"Homo floresiensis\" and Neanderthals, after migrating within and then out of Africa to the non-African world within the last 50,000 to 100,000 years. He always considered that some interbreeding between the different groups could have occurred, but thought this would have been trivial in the big picture. However, recent genetic data show that the replacement process did include some interbreeding. In the last decade he has proposed a more complex version of events within Africa, which he has termed ″multiregional African origin″.\n\nHe also directed the Ancient Human Occupation of Britain project which ran for about 10 years from 2001. This consortium reconstructed and studied the episodic pattern of human colonisation of Britain during the Pleistocene. He is co-director of the follow-up project \"Pathways to Ancient Britain\".\n\nHe is a Fellow of the Royal Society and Honorary Fellow of the Society of Antiquaries. He won the 2008 Frink Medal of the Zoological Society of London and the Rivers Memorial Medal from the Royal Anthropological Institute in 2004\n\nHe was elected a Member of the American Philosophical Society in 2019.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893357", "title": "Tupper Lake (New York)", "text": "Tupper Lake (New York)\n\nTupper Lake is a lake in New York in the United States. The lake is in the Adirondack Park and crosses the county lines of St. Lawrence County and Franklin County.\n\nTupper Lake was discovered by Native Americans indigenous to the area around the 16th century. The first European to see it was Ansel Tupper, a land surveyor. It is aligned in a northeast to southwest direction along its length. The lake is fed and drained by the Raquette River.\n\nThe lake is located in the towns of Altamont (Franklin County) and Piercefield (St. Lawrence County). The Village of Tupper Lake is at the northeast end of the lake in the Town of Tupper Lake. The village is adjacent to Raquette Pond, an arm of the lake at its northwest end. Another arm of the lake, Simon Pond, is south of the village. Some of the islands in the lake include County Line Island and Bluff Island.\n"}
{"id": "1893358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893358", "title": "Aksel Sandemose", "text": "Aksel Sandemose\n\nAksel Sandemose (né Axel Nielsen; 19 March 1899 – 6 August 1965) was a Danish-Norwegian writer.\n\nAxel Nielsen was born at Nykøbing Mors on the island of Mors in Denmark. His parents were Jørgen Nielsen (1859–1928) and Amalie Jacobsdatter (1861–1926). His father was a factory owner. He was the second youngest of nine children. He attended Staby vinterlærerskole 1915–1916. His mother was originally from Sandermosen at Maridalen in Aker, Norway. He changed his surname to Sandemose in 1921.\n\nSandemose boarded a schooner for Norway at the age of seventeen. He was a sailor and lumberjack in Newfoundland. \nHe worked as a teacher at Nykøbing in 1916 and at Glyngøre in Skive during 1917. In 1930, Sandemose moved to Norway, and lived in Nesodden south of Oslo. After the Nazi German occupation of Norway during World War II, he fled to Sweden in 1941 due to his peripheral association with the Norwegian resistance movement. After the liberation of Norway, he moved back and settled in Søndeled.\n\nSandemose published his first book in Denmark during 1923. His most notable work was \"En flyktning krysser sitt spor\" (1933). The novel was translated into English and published under the title \"A Fugitive Crosses His Tracks\" in 1936 by Alfred A. Knopf. In this novel, Sandemose introduced the concept of the Law of Jante, a listing of ten cultural rules which describe a pattern of group behaviour towards individuals common to Nordic countries.\n\nHe was also an essayist and journalist. For a number of years he had a regular column in the weekly magazine \"Aktuell\". Sandemose was awarded the Dobloug Prize during 1959 and was one of six finalists for the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1963.\n\nSandemose first married began in 1921 with Dagmar Ditlevsen (1896–1984); their marriage was dissolved in 1944. In 1944 Eva Borgen (1906–1959) and he married. As a widower, his marriage with Hanne Holbek began in 1962. Sandemose fathered five children over his lifetime. \nHe was the grandfather of illustrator and children's writer Iben Sandemose. Sandemose died in Copenhagen in 1965 and was buried at Vestre gravlund in Oslo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893362", "title": "The Disconnection", "text": "The Disconnection\n\nThe Disconnection is the second album by Carina Round. It was released in October 2003. The album was released in the UK with a cover shot by Anoushka Fisz (wife of Dave Stewart from Eurythmics who supported her since), then released in 2004 with a different, less disturbing cover photo, on Interscope Records in the US. The album garnished comparisons to Björk, Jeff Buckley and Robert Plant.\n\nAll songs written by Carina Round, except where noted.\n\n\n\n\nString Arrangement for \"Overcome\" by John Cotton\n"}
{"id": "1893367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893367", "title": "List of islands of Belize", "text": "List of islands of Belize\n\nThe country of Belize has roughly 386 km of coastline, and has many coral reefs, cayes, and islands in the Caribbean Sea. Most of these form the Belize Barrier Reef, the longest in the western hemisphere stemming approximately . The reef and its islands have been a UNESCO World Heritage Site since 1996.\n\nThe following is a list of oceanic islands of Belize, arranged according to region but all of which are in the Caribbean Sea. River islands have not been listed.\nThe Islands number relates to the 2012 island numbering program made by Belize government for real estate purposes.\n\nThis group of islands form an arch around the capital city's coastline.\n\nGradually heading in a line southward, the cays decrease in size before reaching the coast of Honduras. and finally, towards the coast of Punta Gorda are some more islands.\n\nThe Turneffe Atoll is situated in the central Barrier Reef system, between the Inner Channel and Lighthouse Reef, and is 30 miles (48 km) long and 10 miles (16 km) wide. It is made up of a number of large cayes, such as Blackbird Caye, which surround a central lagoon. Smaller surrounding islands include:\n\nThe Lighthouse Reef system is a sunken atoll, and consists of four islands:\n\nThe Glover's Reef system is mostly submerged, with a few tiny islands. see list above.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893368", "title": "Steve Ihnat", "text": "Steve Ihnat\n\nStefan Ihnat (August 7, 1934 – May 12, 1972) was a Slovak-born American actor and director. He immigrated to Canada when he was five years old, and later became a United States citizen.\n\nIhnat was born in Slovakia and was raised on a farm in Lynden, Ontario. His family settled there after fleeing his native Czechoslovakia in 1939, when he was five years old. Ihnat, his mother, father, younger sister, and two young boys from other families left Czechoslovakia three days before Prague was occupied by invading German forces in March of that year.\n\nIhnat became hooked on acting when he played a child role in an amateur theatre near Lynden. He said, \"I knew this was the only thing I wanted to do with my life.\" He also said \"I think wanting to act started when I was about 14 as an escape valve to my environment. I was raised on a farm and I decided I wanted to be everything in life. Acting is the best way to do it.\"\n\nIhnat moved to the United States in 1958 to pursue a career in acting and attended the Pasadena Playhouse. He gained United States citizenship. In 1959, he played a truck driver in with cargo hijackers in an episode of \"Highway Patrol\". At a time when he had difficulty finding work he enlisted in the U.S. Army for two years and served at Headquarters U.S. Army, Port Inchon, South Korea. In 1960, Pvt. Ihnat won second prize in the Republic of Korea poetry contest for his entry titled \"Toil in the Night.\"\n\nIhnat guest-starred in many television series during the 1960s, including a mind-controlled lieutenant in the science fiction television series \"The Outer Limits\" in the two-part episode, \"The Inheritors\", (1964). In 1965, he guest starred as murderer Charlie Parks in the \"Perry Mason\" episode, \"The Case of the Duplicate Case.\" \n\nIhnat held over seventy guest credits in such well known series as \"\" episode \"\" (1969) as the psychotic Garth of Izar and also two episodes of \"The Fugitive\", entitled \"Cry Uncle\" (alongside Ron Howard) and \"The Walls of Night\". Other credits include \"Blue Light\" (\"Field of Dishonor\"), \"Gunsmoke\" (\"Exodus 21:22\", \"Jenny\" with Lisa Gerritsen (December 28, 1970), and \"Noose of Gold\"), \"The Silent Force\" (\"Take As Directed For Death\"), \"Bonanza\" (\"Dead and Gone\" as Johann Brunner, \"A Dream to Dream\" as Josh Carter and \"Terror at 2:00\" as Mr. Ganns), \"The Virginian\" (\"Jed\" and \"Last Grave at Socorro Creek\"), \"\" (\"The Astrologer\"), (\"The Mind of Stefan Miklos\"), \"Cimarron Strip\" (\"The Hunted\"), \"I Dream of Jeannie\" (\"My Master the Rainmaker\"), \"Mannix\" (\"Huntdown\", \"End Game\" and \"To Draw the Lightning\"), \"The F.B.I.\" (\"Region of Peril\" and \"The Prey\"), \"The Name of the Game\" (\"The Chains of Command\" and \"Nightmare\"), \"Medical Center\" (\"Fright and Flight\") and \"Perry Mason\" (\"The Case of the Duplicate Case\"). In 1971 Inhat was in \"Sweet, Sweet Rachel\", a TV movie that formed the basis for the series \"The Sixth Sense\". \n\nIhnat had several guest roles in \"\" including the brilliant Soviet Union investigator Stefan Miklos in the 1969 episode \"The Mind of Stefan Miklos,\" widely praised as one of the most cerebral and intelligent episodes of the entire series. While he played other roles (mostly villains, like in \"The Astrologer\") in the show, his performance in this episode is his most memorable.\n\nFrom 1964 to 1968 he appeared in eight feature films. He often played villains, using his abilities to subtly turn one-dimensional characters into complex and multi-dimensional antagonists. In 1968, Lamont Johnson cast him in the film \"Kona Coast\" in which Ihnat played a murderous playboy in Hawaii doping up teenagers and causing mayhem to the property and person of the character played by lead actor Richard Boone. Also in 1968, he memorably portrayed a murderous thug in the film \"Madigan,\" starring Richard Widmark and Henry Fonda and a NASA administrator in the film \"Countdown,\" directed by Robert Altman and starring James Caan and Robert Duvall. His other film credits included \"The Chase\" (1966), \"In Like Flint\" (1967), \"Hour of the Gun\" (1967), \"Zig Zag\" (1970), and \"Fuzz\" (1972).\n\nIhnat was a screenwriter and director as well. He wrote, produced and starred in \"Do Not Throw Cushions Into The Ring,\" which while never released, led to his receiving the plum position of directing \"The Honkers\", starring James Coburn, with whom he had appeared in \"In Like Flint\". He also co-wrote the movie with Stephen Lodge.\n\nIhnat was married to Marya Carter, who posed as Playboy's Playmate of the Month for May 1962. Carter had a daughter from a previous marriage.\n\nIhnat died of a heart attack while attending the Cannes Film Festival in France, where he was promoting his film, \"Do Not Throw Cushions Into the Ring\". His death, at age 37, came one month after the birth of his son, Stefan.\n\nIhnat is interred in the Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles. His son, Stefan, who died at age 32 from complications connected with diabetes, is interred next to him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893370", "title": "Reni Santoni", "text": "Reni Santoni\n\nReni Santoni (born April 21, 1939) is an American film, television and voice actor.\n\nSantoni was born in New York City to a family of French (Corsicans) and Spanish descent, and began his career in Off-Broadway theatre.\n\nHis first significant film role was an uncredited appearance in the 1964 film \"The Pawnbroker\" (starring Rod Steiger), in which he played a junkie trying to sell a radio to the title character (using anti-Semitic slurs to no effect).\n\nHis first leading role was as a young actor in \"Enter Laughing\". Other film roles included Inspector \"Chico\" González in 1971's \"Dirty Harry\", Carl Reiner's comedic homage to the film noir genre, \"Dead Men Don't Wear Plaid\" (1982), as prison official Ramon Herrera in \"Bad Boys\" (1983), and as Detective Tony Gonzales in the action film \"Cobra\" (1986).\n\nSantoni made guest appearances on television shows such as \"Barnaby Jones\", \"Lou Grant\", \"Hawaii Five-O\", \"Hardcastle and McCormick\", \"Hill Street Blues\", \"The Odd Couple\" and \"Midnight Caller\". In 1973, Santoni played a junior partner on \"\". His most notable role was as \"Poppie\" (the bombastic, antiabortion, neurotic, and very unhygienic restaurateur in \"Seinfeld\").\n"}
{"id": "1893376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893376", "title": "Cuba at the 1996 Summer Olympics", "text": "Cuba at the 1996 Summer Olympics\n\nCuba competed at the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, United States. 164 competitors, 111 men and 53 women, took part in 84 events in 15 sports.\n\nDue to Cuba's strained relations with the United States and its trade embargo against Fidel Castro regime, Cuban athletes were allowed to travel to Atlanta only following the permission of its local NOC, so that all the athletes are vetted and cannot defect.\n\n\n\n\nMen's 4 × 400 m relay\n\nMen's long jump\n\nMen's decathlon \n\nMen's discus throw \n\nMen's hammer throw \n<br>\nWomen's 4x400 metres relay \n\nWomen's long jump\n\nWomen's high jump\n\nWomen's triple jump\n\nWomen's javelin throw\n\nWomen's discus throw \n\nWomen's shot put\n\nWomen's heptathlon \n\nDefending gold medallist and undefeated team Cuba made its second appearance in the 1996 Olympic baseball tournament. Once again, the Cubans went undefeated, beating all seven of the other teams in the preliminary round. A semifinal victory over Nicaragua and a final win against Japan won Cuba its second gold medal in baseball and improved its Olympic win-loss record to 18-0.\n\nMen's tournament:\n\n\n\nMen's light flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's flyweight (– 51 kg)\n\nMen's bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's lightweight (– 60 kg)\n\nMen's light welterweight (– 63.5 kg)\n\nMen's welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's light middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's light heavyweight (– 81 kg)\n\nMen's heavyweight (91 kg)\n\nMen's super heavyweight (> 91 kg)\n\nWomen's individual road race\n\nSeven fencers, four men and three women, represented Cuba in 1996.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMen's extra-lightweight\n\nMen's half-lightweight\n\nMen's middleweight\n\nMen's half-heavyweight\n\nMen's heavyweight\n<br>\nWomen's extra-lightweight\n\nWomen's half-lightweight\n\nWomen's lightweight\n\nWomen's half-middleweight\n\nWomen's middleweight\n\nWomen's half-heavyweight\n\nWomen's heavyweight\n\nMen's 100m backstroke\n\nMen's 200m backstroke\n\nMen's 100m breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m breaststroke\n\n\n\nMen's bantamweight\n\nMen's lightweight\n\nMen's middleweight\n\nMen's middle-heavyweight\n\nMen's light-flyweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's flyweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's bantamweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's featherweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's lightweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's welterweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's light-heavyweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's heavyweight, Greco-Roman\n\nMen's light-flyweight, freestyle\n\nMen's flyweight, freestyle\n\nMen's bantamweight, freestyle\n\nMen's lightweight, freestyle\n\nMen's welterweight, freestyle\n\nMen's middleweight, freestyle\n\nMen's heavyweight, freestyle\n\n"}
{"id": "1893381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893381", "title": "Freestyle Fellowship", "text": "Freestyle Fellowship\n\nFreestyle Fellowship is an American hip hop group from Los Angeles, California. It consists of Aceyalone, Myka 9, P.E.A.C.E., and Self Jupiter. They are part of the Project Blowed collective.\n\nWhile in high school in the late 1980s, Aceyalone, Myka 9, and Self Jupiter formed the short-lived MC Aces, a precursor to Freestyle Fellowship, at the Good Life Cafe in Los Angeles, California. Subsequently, former high school friend P.E.A.C.E. was added to form Freestyle Fellowship.\n\nFreestyle Fellowship released the debut studio album, \"To Whom It May Concern...\", in 1991. In 1993, the group released the second studio album, \"Innercity Griots\".\n\nFreestyle Fellowship went on hiatus due to the incarceration of Self Jupiter. In 1998, the group reunited to record the \"Shockadoom\" EP, which would be released in 2002. The group released \"Temptations\" in 2001, and \"The Promise\" in 2011.\n\nAccording to \"Los Angeles Times\", Freestyle Fellowship incorporates \"jazz rhythms into its raps, which have the improvisational ebb and flow and the random explosiveness of a jazz solo.\" In a 1993 interview with \"Los Angeles Times\", the group's member Myka 9 said, \"What we are is liberators, liberating rap from its R&B/funk structures--that 4/4 (time) prison.\"\n\nThe group has been described by \"LA Weekly\" as \"the astral jazz-cracked geniuses of sherm-strafed South Central, rapping with caged bird cadences about sleeping on park benches, biblical books, and gangsta rap carpetbaggers.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893388", "title": "List of islands of Nicaragua", "text": "List of islands of Nicaragua\n\nThis is a list of islands of Nicaragua.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893397", "title": "Religiocentrism", "text": "Religiocentrism\n\nReligiocentrism or religio-centrism is defined (Corsini 1999:827) as the \"conviction that a person's own religion is more important or superior to other religions.\" In analogy to ethnocentrism, religiocentrism is a value-neutral term for psychological attitude.\n\nThe neologism \"religiocentrism\" combines \"religio-\" (e.g., religiophobia) and \"-centrism\" (e.g., Eurocentrism). Derivations include \"religiocentric\" or \"religio-centric\".\n\nAlthough the precise origins of \"religiocentrism\" and \"religiocentric\" remain unclear, the words have been used since the early 20th century. The American economist Adrian Augustus Holtz (1917:15) described how early German school reforms were \"carried on in a way that allowed for a religio-centric educational system.\" Sinclair Lewis's \"Main Street\" (1920:307) said, \"Maud Dyer was neurotic, religiocentric, faded; her emotions were moist, and her figure was unsystematic.\"\n\nThe related term \"Christocentric\" theologically means \"forms of Christianity that concentrate on the teaching of Jesus Christ\", but is sometimes used as a near synonym of \"religiocentric\". For instance (Hamilton 2002), \"No matter where it appears, government-sponsored Christocentrism, or even religiocentrism, undermines this nation's ideals.\"\n\nReligiocentrism is commonly discussed in contexts of psychology, sociology, and anthropology.\n\nThe Australian social psychologists John J. Ray and Dianne Doratis defined religiocentrism.\n\"Ethnocentrism\" is the social scientist's value-neutral term for ethnic or racial prejudice. It refers to ethnically-based sentiments of exclusiveness without any implication of their moral worth or justifiability... By analogy, the term religiocentrism is derived here to mean \"religiously\" based sentiments of exclusiveness—beliefs that one should marry within one's own religion, work with members of one's own religion, and in general prefer members of one's own religion above others. This will also entail \"ipso facto\" devaluative judgments of other religions. (1971:170)\n\nRay and Doratis designed a groundbreaking attitude scale to measure religiocentrism and ethnocentrism. Their religiocentrism scale comprises 33 items (for instance, \"I think my religion is nearer to the truth than any other\" and \"Most Moslems, Buddhists and Hindus are very stupid and ignorant\"), with five-point Likert scale psychometric response options from \"Strongly agree\" (Scored 5) to \"Strongly disagree\" (1). To verify internal consistency among respondents, 11 items were reverse scored (\"It makes no difference to me what religion my friends are\" is the converse of \"I think that it's better if you stick to friends of the same religion as your own\"), resulting in a reliability coefficient of .88 among 154 first-year university students. The authors tested attitudes among Australian fifth-form students in two Catholic and two public schools, and discovered that neither ethnocentrism nor religiocentrism showed any correlation with religious background. Ray and Doratis concluded (1971:178), \"Ethnocentrism, religiocentrism and religious conservatism were all shown to be separate and distinct factors of attitudes in their own right. They are not just three aspects of the one thing. Religiocentric people do however tend to be both religiously conservative and ethnocentric.\"\n\nThe Hungarian-Jewish historian and anthropologist Raphael Patai mentions religiocentrism as a variable in relationships between religion and culture, \nEach religion also has a definite outlook on its own value in relation to that of other religions. Its relationship to other religions may range from complete toleration to the complete lack of it, with a corresponding range of self-evaluation. This variable, best called religio-centrism (on the analogy of ethnocentrism), can serve as an additional avenue of approach to the study of our subject. (1954:234)\n\nComparing Middle Eastern, Far Eastern, and Western cultures, Patai finds,\nReligion in the Far East is characterized by the absence of religio-centrism: there is a marked toleration of other religions and a mutual borrowing and influencing; in the Middle East and in the West there is a high degree of religio-centrism, with intolerance and scorn of other religions: each religion is exclusive and regards itself as the \"one and only\" true faith. (1954:252)\n\nIn a later survey of the potentials for world peace, Patai differentiated the major modern religions between \"theistic\" and \"nontheistic\".\nThe three great monotheistic religions of the Middle East and the West, Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, are the foremost theistic religions and the dominant faiths of about one half of mankind. Common to all theistic religions is a pronounced religiocentrism, expressed most poignantly in the conviction that one's own religion is the one and only true one, and that all the other faiths are erroneous and hence depreciable. In this conviction were rooted the great religious wars which pitted, not only Muslims against Christians, but also various Muslim sects against one another, and likewise made various Christian denominations bitter enemies... The situation is more hopeful in the great nontheistic religions of South, Southeast, and East Asia. These religions, notably Hinduism, Buddhism, Jainism, Sikhism, Confucianism, and Taoism, lack the element of self-assurance and certainty that each is the exclusive possessor of the only truth. (1987:24-25)\n\nIn response, Andrew Wilson, Professor of Scriptural Studies of the Unification Theological Seminary, criticized Patai's opinion as theologically plausible but historically erroneous, citing examples (1987:28) of \"rampant communal violence between Hindus and Buddhists in Sri Lanka and between Sikhs and Hindus in India.\"\n\nReligiocentrism has a specialized meaning for sociologists (Chalfant, Beckley, and Palmer 1994:51). \"This term is related to a common word used in sociological literature, \"ethnocentrism\". Similarly, we might refer to feelings of rightness and superiority resulting from religious affiliation as \"religiocentrism\". Religiocentrism inhibits the ability of a society to achieve adaptation, integration and goal-attainment.\"\n\nMohammed Abu-Nimer, the Director of the Peacebuilding and Development Institute at American University, distinguishes between religiocentrism and \"religiorelativism\".\nA religiorelative person is firm in his/her belief that other religions have the right to exist and be practiced, even if such norms and beliefs are contradictory to one's own set of religious beliefs. Such a person is prone not to engage in violence or discriminatory actions against the others. In contrast, a religiocentric person is a believer who denies other religions' \"truth\" and who holds an absolute truth that leaves no room for different religious practices. Such a person becomes more prone to dehumanize, exclude, and discriminate against other religious groups and individuals. Often, as a result of negative and destructive exposure and experience with conflict and war, religiocentric beliefs not only are exacerbated and easily translated into violence against the enemy (that is, the different other), but also actually grow and prohibit human and peaceful contact with the other. However, there are conflict resolution and peace-building activities and forums that can assist peace workers in such settings to transform a religiocentric into a religiorelative believer. (2004:497)\n\nAbu-Nimer (2004:479-501) analyzes three typical reactions of a religiocentric person to another religion: denial (e.g., Israel not allowing Arabs to purchase or use state land), defense mechanisms (\"There is no salvation outside the Church\"), and minimization (\"We are all the children of God\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1893412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893412", "title": "The Powers of Pain", "text": "The Powers of Pain\n\nThe Powers of Pain are a professional wrestling tag team.\n\nPaul Jones had previously managed The Barbarian (Sione Vailahi) in National Wrestling Alliance's (NWA) territories during 1985-1987, while The Warlord (Terry Szopinski) and joined the NWA in late 1986 where he was managed by Baby Doll. Soon The Warlord and Doll left the NWA and went to the Central States area where Jones was managing The Barbarian, so a feud then took place between The Warlord and The Barbarian. Doll soon stopped managing The Warlord, and The Warlord and The Barbarian stopped feuding. Jones then started the manage The Warlord as well and teamed him up with The Barbarian as The Powers of Pain. Later on Jones brought The Powers of Pain to the NWA in late 1987.\n\nAfter Paul Jones and the Powers of Pain came to the National Wrestling Alliance's Jim Crockett Promotions in late 1987, they were joined by Ivan Koloff.\n\nThe Powers then began feuding with The Road Warriors. During their feud, they attacked the Road Warriors during a bench press contest between the two teams, ramming Road Warrior Animal's head into a stack of weights. A (legitimate) eye socket injury suffered by Animal at the time was attributed in kayfabe to the Powers' actions. Later during their feud, the Powers won the World Six-Man Tag Team Championship with Ivan Koloff from the Warriors and Dusty Rhodes.\n\nThey feuded for several more months until the Powers left the NWA while still the champions with Koloff when the Powers refused to do scaffold matches. As a result, the Powers and Koloff were stripped of the titles.\n\nThe Powers of Pain made their first appearance on June 18, 1988 on a house show in South Bend, Indiana and defeated WWF World Tag-Team Champions Demolition (Ax and Smash) via countout in their first match. Upon their arrival, the Powers of Pain were faces managed by Tito Santana. They feuded with WWF World Tag Team Champions Demolition who had defeated Strike Force (Santana and Rick Martel) for the titles and then injured Martel (kayfabe). The Powers of Pain were introduced as mercenaries to help Martel and Santana gain revenge on Demolition for both the title loss and the injury to Martel. At the 1988 SummerSlam, The Baron debuted as their manager, leading them to victory over The Bolsheviks (Nikolai Volkoff and Boris Zhukov). The Baron would leave the WWF in early November.\n\nThey became heels while Demolition became faces when Mr. Fuji attacked Demolition at the 1988 Survivor Series and aligned himself with the Powers of Pain. The Powers of Pain went on to win the match when they eliminated the foreign heel team The Conquistadors. The feud with Demolition ended at WrestleMania V when the Powers Of Pain teamed with Fuji and lost to Demolition when Ax pinned Fuji.\n\nFollowing their failure to win the titles, the Powers of Pain feuded with teams such as The Hart Foundation (Bret Hart and Jim Neidhart), The Bushwhackers (Luke and Butch) and The Rockers (Shawn Michaels and Marty Jannetty). At the 1989 Survivor Series, they along with Zeus were a part of Ted DiBiase's \"Million Dollar Team\", losing to the \"Hulkamaniacs\" team of WWF World Heavyweight Champion Hulk Hogan, Jake \"The Snake\" Roberts and WWF Tag Team Champions Demolition. The Barbarian and The Warlord each eliminated members of Demolition, only to both be disqualified from the match for double teaming Hogan.\n\nIn March 1990, the team split, with Mr. Fuji selling Barbarian's contract to Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan while selling Warlord's contract to Slick. Their final match as The Powers of Pain came on March 25 in Hershey, Pennsylvania when they were defeated by Hulk Hogan & The Big Bossman.\n\nThey reunited in Japan at Super World Sports on October 28, 1991 defeating George and Shunji Takano. Although not officially reunited as a tandem, The Warlord and The Barbarian would team again on January 18, 1992 at a house show in Boston, Massachusetts, losing to The New Foundation (\"The Rocket\" Owen Hart and Jim \"The Anvil\" Neidhart).\n\nUpon returning to the independent circuit, The Powers of Pain won the WWWA Tag Team Championship together on the independent circuit in the early 1990s before later debuting for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in November 1995. The team was put under masks as the Super Assassins and were managed by Col. Rob Parker. They only had five matches together (two wins over The American Males and The State Patrol and losses to The Nasty Boys and Sting and Lex Luger) before The Warlord left WCW due to injuries and retired in early 1996, while Barbarian stayed and formed The Faces of Fear with former Heenan Family stablemate Haku, who by then went by the name, Meng.\n\nThey lost to The Dream Team at the Road Warrior Hawk Memorial Show on November 11, 2003. They later reformed their team in 2005 for Gladiator Championship Wrestling (GCW). The Powers of Pain reunited on September 16, 2012, in Chikara, taking part in a gauntlet match, from which they eliminated their old WWF rivals, Demolition, before being eliminated themselves by 1-2-3 Kid and Marty Jannetty.\n\nThe Powers of Pain continue to wrestle occasionally, including schedule matches for Big Time Wrestling (BTW) in February 2016.\n\nThey filmed a shoot interview in 2004 with RF Video and spoke about their careers.\n\nIn 2008, they introduced an energy drink in association with Gladiator Championship Wrestling.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893415", "title": "Hyper (magazine)", "text": "Hyper (magazine)\n\nHyper is a multi-platform Australian video game magazine and Australia's longest running gaming magazine, published from 1993 to present day.\n\n\"Hyper\" was launched in 1993 by Next Media with Stuart Clarke in the editor's seat. Clarke had previously edited Megazone; a then multi-platform magazine published by Sega Ozisoft, before being taken over by Mason Stewart publishing in September 1993 and being made Sega only. Clarke left Megazone at the time of the Mason Stewart takeover, when he was asked by Next Media publisher, Phil Keir, to start a new multi-platform gaming magazine. Clarke recounted the events in Hyper's 100th issue:\n\"Just as I was starting to relax, Phil Keir, owner of Next Media and publisher of Rolling Stone, rang me at home one night to ask a few questions. Before I knew it he had asked me to set up a brand new games magazine – one that I created and controlled completely! So after a few nano-seconds of thought I said, 'Um, okay then'. One of the first decisions was to make it a true multi-format title, covering the best games on all platforms.\" - Stuart Clarke, February 2002 issue 100 of Hyper\nOn 28 April 2010, Hyper Magazine released its 200th issue. Daniel Wilks was the then editor of Hyper since 2007 and the 200th issue was his last. He then passed the baton onto deputy editor Darren Wells, after the success of the 200th issue release.\n\"I started on the magazine about six years ago, and during that time we had competition come and go, as well as all the horror stories and nay-saying that print was dead,\"\" says Wilks. \"\"I'll admit there were a few times that I thought the end days may have been coming – especially during the peak of the GFC when every publishing company seemed to be shedding staff and magazines like it was going out of style, but I've always believed that the magazine could weather anything thrown at it. All of us who have worked on Hyper feel the same way. 200 is a pretty huge milestone for a magazine.\"\nThe launch issue of the magazine was created in two months with Clarke as editor, Andrew Humphreys as deputy editor, and Aaron Rogers as art director.\n\nDespite numerous competitors entering the market at various stages, such as ACP's Gamestar, Australian GamePro, and the relaunched Megazone, all these titles folded within 12 months of launch while Hyper remained a strong title.\n\nSince its inception, Hyper has developed and maintained a reputation for being independent and honest with its readers. It is known for its irreverent sense of humour and both entertaining and informative features, reviews, and previews.\n\nNext Media announced in late 2014 that Hyper would become a quarterly publication from 2015 onwards.\n<br>\n<br>\nHowever, Hyper is still published (it’s not), the latest issue available August 21st, 2018.\n<br>\n<br>\n<br>\n\"Hyper\" also has a sister magazine, the PC gaming oriented \"PC PowerPlay\", also published by Future Australia.\n\nIn addition to coverage of all current major video game systems and game releases, \"Hyper\" also covers anime, DVD movies, arcade and classic games, and features in-depth interviews with industry professionals and articles on game-related content such as game classifications, computer hardware and video game music. The magazine also features 100% Australian content (Mag Nation 2012).\n\nThe magazine contains regular sections such as: news, features, previews, reviews, opinion pieces, and a letters page.\n\nThe website has hosted an internet forum (Previous to that was an IRC channel hosted by Webcentral) since 1996 that serves as a link between editors and readers of the magazine. The site also encourages feedback about game reviews through a comments section while is also linked to a Twitter feed and Facebook page. Latest information on industry events, games development programmes and competitions is also linked to the site (Hyper 2010).\n\n\n\nRegular contributors to the magazine include:<br>\n\nDigitized Hyper Magazines on Retro CDN\n"}
{"id": "1893417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893417", "title": "The First Blood Mystery", "text": "The First Blood Mystery\n\nThe First Blood Mystery is the debut album of Carina Round. It was released in May 2001 on Animal Noise records. The title, \"The First Blood Mystery\", is a reference to psychologist Erich Neumann's theory of feminine development. The album was recorded at Magic Garden Studios with friend and producer Gavin Monaghan. The album was recorded and mixed in ten days.\n\nAll songs written by Carina Round.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893418", "title": "List of islands of El Salvador", "text": "List of islands of El Salvador\n\nThis is a list of islands of El Salvador:\n\nUnder Salvadoran control:\n\nFurthermore:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893422", "title": "List of islands of Costa Rica", "text": "List of islands of Costa Rica\n\nThis is a list of Costa Rica's islands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893424", "title": "Lien Fang Yu", "text": "Lien Fang Yu\n\nLien Fang Yu () born 14 April 1943 in Chongqing as Fang Yu (), is the wife of Lien Chan, chairman of the Kuomintang party from 2000 to 2005. Fang is a former Miss Republic of China.\n\nFang and Lien were married in 1965, the same year that Lien received a PhD in political science from the University of Chicago.\n"}
{"id": "1893432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893432", "title": "List of towns in the Republic of Ireland/2002 Census Records", "text": "List of towns in the Republic of Ireland/2002 Census Records\n\nReturn to List of towns in the Republic of Ireland\n\nAlphabetical list of towns, together with their population as recorded by the Census of 2002. Villages with fewer than 100 people are not listed.\n"}
{"id": "1893434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893434", "title": "Dominican Republic at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Dominican Republic at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nThe Dominican Republic competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\nThe Dominican team won two of its seven games in the preliminary round of the first Olympic baseball tournament, defeating Italy and Spain. Its record put the team in sixth place and out of further contention.\n\nMen's Team Competition:\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Flyweight\n\nMen's Bantamweight\n\nMen's Featherweight\n\nMen's Light-Welterweight\n\nMen's Welterweight\n\nMen's Extra-Lightweight\n\nMen's Half-Lightweight\n\nWomen's Lightweight\n\nWomen's Half-Middleweight\n\nMen's Greco-Roman Flyweight \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893441", "title": "Puerto Rico at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Puerto Rico at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nPuerto Rico competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain.\n\n\nMen's 200 metres\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's 400m Hurdles\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\n\nMen's Pole Vault\n\nWomen's 100 metres\n\nWomen's 400 metres\n\nThe Puerto Ricans won only two of the seven games of the preliminary round in the debut of Olympic baseball. Their victories came against Italy and the Dominican Republic, while the five losses included one against last-place Spain after the Dominicans lost their 6-4 lead in the bottom of the ninth. Their record in the preliminary round eliminated them from medal contention.\n\nHead Coach: José Carradero Muriel\n\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Flyweight (– 51 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight (– 81 kg)\n\nMen's Floor Exercise\n\nMen's Horse Vault\n\nMen's Parallel Bars\n\nMen's Horizontal Bar\n\nMen's Rings\n\nMen's Pommelled Horse\n\nMen's Extra-Lightweight\n\nWomen's Half-Lightweight\n\nWomen's Lightweight\n\nWomen's Heavyweight\n\nMen's One Person Dinghy\n\nMixed Multihull\n\nWomen's Sailboard (Lechner A-390)\n\nMen's Small-Bore Rifle Prone (50 m)\n\nMixed Trap\n\nMen's 50 m Freestyle\n\n\nMen's 100 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 400 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 1500 m Freestyle\n\nMen's 100 m Backstroke\n\n\nMen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen's 100 m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200 m Butterfly\n\nMen's 200 m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 400 m Individual Medley\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Freestyle Relay\n\nMen's 4 × 200 m Freestyle Relay\n\nMen's 4 × 100 m Medley Relay\n<br>\nWomen's 200 m Freestyle\n\nWomen's 100 m Backstroke\n\nWomen's 200 m Backstroke\n\nMen's Singles Competition\n\nMen's Doubles Competition\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Featherweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Middleweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Light-Heavyweight\n\nMen's Freestyle Super-Heavyweight\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1893444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893444", "title": "Garhwali language", "text": "Garhwali language\n\nGarhwali () is an Indo-Aryan language of the Central Pahari subgroup. It is primarily spoken by over 2.5 million Garhwali people in the Garhwal region of the northern Indian state of Uttarakhand in the indian Himalayas.\n\nGarhwali has a number of regional dialects and it is most closely related to the Kumaoni language spoken to the east. It is written using the Devanagari script.\n\nGarhwali is not an endangered language (Ethnologue lists it as \"vigorous\"), it is nonetheless designated as \"vulnerable\" in UNESCO's Atlas of the World's Languages in Danger, which indicates that the language requires consistent conservation efforts.\n\nAlmost all people who can speak and understand Garhwali can also speak and understand Hindi, one of the most commonly spoken languages of India. As per a study, Garhwali is only 50% intelligible for Hindi speakers and there is one-way full intelligibility of Hindi for Garhwali speakers because of the high rate of Hindi literacy in Uttarakhand and the popularity of Hindi in Northern India.\n\nGarhwali is spoken primarily by people in Tehri Garhwal, Pauri Garhwal, Uttarkashi, Chamoli, Rudraprayag and Dehradun districts of Garhwal division in the state Uttarakhand. Garhwali is also spoken by Garhwali migrants to other parts of India including Himachal Pradesh, Delhi, Haryana, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. According to various estimates, there are at least 2.5 million Garhwali migrants living in Delhi and the National Capital Region.\n\nIt is difficult to estimate the exact number of Garhwali speakers, as different agencies give different accounts of this number. According to the 2001 Census of Languages in India, there were 22,67314 Garhwali language speakers, while Ethnologue gave a much larger figure of 29,20,000 Garhwali language speakers in a 2005 report. As per the latest 2011 Census of Languages in India, there are an estimated 2,482,089 speakers.\n\nThe Ethnologue has catalogued alternate names by which Garhwali is known such as \"Gadhavali, Gadhawala, Gadwahi, Gashwali, Girwali, Godauli, Gorwali, Gurvali,\" and \"Pahari Garhwali\". These alternate names of the language may have come from the speakers having more than one name for their language, or variant spellings and pronunciations of what is essentially the same name.\n\nIn the middle period of the course of development of Indo-Aryan languages, there were many prakrit. Of these, the \"Khas Prakrit\" is believed to be the source of Garhwali . The early form of Garhwali can be traced to the 10th century which is found in numismatics, royal seals, inscriptional writings on copper plates and temple stones containing royal orders and grants. One such early example is the temple grant inscription of King Jagatpal at Dev Prayag (1335 AD). Most of the Garhwali literature is preserved in folk form, handed down verbally from generation to generation but since the 18th century, literary traditions are flourishing. Till the 17th century, Garhwal was always a sovereign nation under the Garhwali Kings. Naturally, Garhwali was the official language of the Garhwal Kingdom\n\n\nConjugation of the verb \"Laton\" (लटोण) to look, in all three tenses in Garhwali.\n\nThere are many differences from Hindi and other Indic languages, for example in the palatal approximant , or the presence of a retroflex lateral . Garhwali also has different allophones.\n\nThere are many theories used to explains how many Monophthongs are used in the Garhwali language. The Non-Garhwali Indian scholars with some Garhwali scholars (who believes Garhwali as a dialect of Hindi) who follows Common Hindustani phonology argue that there are eight vowels found within the language are ə, ɪ, ʊ, ɑ, i, u, e, o. A Garhwali language scholar Mr. Bhishma Kukreti argues that /ɑ/ is not present in the language instead of it long schwa i.e. /ə:/ is used. Although it can be accepted that southern Garhwali dialects have uses of /ɑ/ instead /ə:/. If we follow his rule of vowel length we found that there are five vowels found in Garhwali. The three are ə, ɪ, ʊ with their vowel length as /ə:/, /ɪ:/, /ʊ:/. Other two /o/ & /e/ with no vowel length. But there are 13 vowels founded by Mr. Anoop Chandra Chandola as follows /ə/, /ɪ/, /ʊ/, /ɑ/, /i/, /u/, /e/, /o/, /æ/, /ɨ/, /y/, /ɔ/, /ɯ/. His arguments can be accepted as universal (also /ɑ/ which is used only in Southern dialects but borrowed to Standard dialect for distinction purposes) . But Bhishma Kukreti's argument about vowel length is also accepted. Hence we concluded that Garhwali (Standard Garhwali in this mean) has twelve vowels (/ə/, /ɪ/, /ʊ/, /i/, /u/, /e/, /o/, /æ/, /ɨ/, /y/, /ɔ/, /ɯ/) where three has vowel length (/ə:/, /ɪ:/, /ʊ:/).\n\nThere are Diphthongs in the language which makes the words distinctive than other. However diphthongs vary dialect by dialect. \nTriphthongs are less commonly found in the language. The most common word where a triphthong may occur is ह्वाउन [English: may be] /hɯɔʊn/ (in standard Garhwali) or /hɯaʊn/ (in some dialects). However many speakers can't realize the presence of triphthongs. Other triphthongs might be discovered if more academic research were done on the language.\n\nय्, र्, ल्, ळ्, व्, स् and the nasal consonants (म्, न्, ञ्, ङ्, ण्) have no aspirated consonantal sound.\n\nThe Garhwali speakers are most familiar with allophones in the Garhwali language. For example, फ (IPA /pʰ/) is used as फ in the word फूळ (IPA /pʰu:ɭ/ English: flower) but pronounced as प (IPA /p/) in the word सफेद (IPA /səpet/, English: \"white\").\n\nAlmost every aspirated consonant exhibits allophonic variation. Each aspirated consonant can be converted into the corresponding tenuis consonant. This can be called loss of aspiration.\n\nA few of the tenuis consonants have allophonic variation. In some cases, a voiced consonant can be converted into the corresponding voiceless consonant.\n\nGarhwali exhibits deep Assimilation (phonology) features. Garhwali has schwa deletion during sandhi, as in Hindi, but in other assimilation features it differs from Hindi. An example is the phrase राधेस्याम. When we write this separately, राधे & स्याम (IPA:- /rəːdʰe/ & /syəːm/) it retains its original phonetic feature, but when assimilated it sounds like रास्स्याम /rəːssyəːm/ or राद्स़्याम /rəːdçyəːm/.\n\nThe earliest known audio recordings of Garhwali language were done in the monumental Linguistic Survey of India (LSI) led by George Abraham Grierson, a member of the Indian Civil Service and a linguist. LSI documented more than 300 spoken Indian languages and recorded voices and written forms between 1894 and 1928. Garhwali language was featured in Part IV - 'Pahari Languages & Gujuri' of Volume IX - 'Indo-Aryan Languages, Central Group' published in 1916 by Grierson. Recordings include the parable of The Prodigal Son and of a well-known folk-tale-the fable of the 'Bundle of Sticks' in Garhwali.\n\nThe Bangani dialect of Garhwali is of interest amongst scholars of Indo-European languages, due to some unusual features.\n\nSince the 1980s, Claus Peter Zoller – a scholar of Indian linguistics and literature – has claimed that there is a centum language substrate in the Bangani dialect. Zoller has also suggested that Bangani has been misclassified as a dialect of Garhwali and is more closely related to the Western Pahari languages.\n\nThe substance of Zoller's claims has been rejected by George van Driem and Suhnu Sharma, in publications since 1996, which claim that Zoller's data was flawed and that Bangani is an unambiguously satem language. Zoller does not accept the findings by van Driem and Sharma.\n\nSome support for Zoller's hypothesis has been offered by other linguists and/or Indologists, such as Anvita Abbi, Hans Henrich Hock, and Koenraad Elst.\n\nGarhwali is generally regarded as a language distinct from Hindi. Although some scholars call it a dialect of Hindi, Garhwali differs from it in various aspects of phonology, morphology, semantics and syntax.\n\nGarhwali language has more specific words used for the instrumental and ablative cases and degrees while Hindi has only one. Here are the examples shown:\nThe most similar feature in both languages is using of ār in Gujarati & ɪr like suffix er is used in English for person's relation with its object of occupation.\n\nAccording to the UNESCO Atlas of World’s Languages in Danger, Garhwali is in the category of “vulnerable language”.\n\nThe reasons for this are manifold. Key amongst them is the lack of patronization at the State and Central government levels. Garhwali is regarded as a ‘dialect’ or ‘mother tongue’ as per the Census of Languages and is counted as a dialect of Hindi. It has not received patronage at the State level. History has a role to play as well. Historically, Sanskrit was the language of the Garhwali court and Garhwali was the language of the people. During the British Raj and in the period after Independence of India, the Garhwal region was included in the Hindi-speaking state of Uttar Pradesh for decades. Further, Uttar Pradesh government's policy of affirmative action through the law of reservation of jobs for the SCST population in Uttar Pradesh is said to have led to increased migration of Hindi speakers from the plains of Uttar Pradesh to the cities of Garhwal to make up for the low percentage of SCST population in Garhwal. These factors are also said to contribute to increased importance of Hindi and reduced prestige for Garhwali language in the minds of the local population.\n\nToday, Garhwali is not used in the official domain. It is not taught at school or college level. Its usage remains limited to home and local use. Further, migration to other parts of India and the ever-increasing pressure of globalization has led to diminishing importance of Garhwali for the local population. Knowledge of Garhwali is not regarded as a special skill and gathering Hindi and English skills for economic and social progress are viewed as critical.\n\nOut-migration for economic reasons has further relegated the language to ‘low prestige’ status amongst its speakers. Since the creation of Garhwal army regiments during the British rule, temporary out-migration had been the trend. Over the last century, as most of the economic opportunities tended to concentrate in plain areas, temporary out-migration followed by eventual return-migration was witnessed. Since 2000, the situation has changed substantially with many out-migrating permanently along with families from Garhwal mainly to eke out their livelihoods and better future of their children.\n\nSuccessive state governments have not done much to stem the tide. The state does not accord Garhwali the status of state language. Hindi and Sanskrit are the official languages of Uttarakhand. State universities did not have Garhwali language departments till as recently as 2014. Garhwali has not received much attention from the academia, and much of the research on the language has been driven by local linguists. In 2017, the state government announced a proposal to adopt English as the medium of instruction for early-age learners (from Class 1) in 18000 government schools, thus ignoring the key role played by the mother tongue or home language in early learning and subject-based learning.\n\nThe economic development experience of Uttarakhand continues to mainly centred in three plain districts of the State, and ten hill districts remain far behind in this increasing prosperity of the State. Due to this lopsided development, the pace of out-migration could not slow down from the hill districts of the Uttarakhand after its formation. The pace of out-migration is so huge that many of the villages in Garhwal are left with a population in single digit.\n\nThese are some of the factors contributing to the deteriorating health of Garhwali and the declining number of its speakers. While the UNESCO “vulnerable language” category is by far the healthiest category amongst the categories of endangered languages, it does not take long for a language to gradually head towards the category of ‘critically endangered’.\n\nSince the formation of Uttarakhand in 2000, successive state governments have been slow-footed in promoting and developing the regional languages of Uttarakhand. Like other languages of Uttarakhand, Garhwali, the most spoken language does not have official recognition. In 2010, Hindi was made the official language and Sanskrit the second official language of the Uttarakhand.\n\nCeding to long-standing demands to make Garhwali the official language of Uttarakhand and to be taught at schools and universities, in 2014 the Uttarakhand state government issued orders to set up departments of Kumaoni and Garhwali languages at Kumaon University and Garhwal University respectively and to introduce Kumaoni and Garhwali language courses at the undergraduate level. In 2016, State Council of Educational Research and Training (SCERT) announced that Garhwali, Kumaoni, Jaunsari and Rang languages would be introduced on pilot basis for students in standard one to 10th in government schools Under the ‘Know Your Uttarakhand’ project. In July 2019, the Uttarakhand government announced that Garhwali language school books would be introduced in primary schools from classes 1 to 5 in a pilot project in 79 schools in Pauri Garhwal district.\n\nAt the national level, there have been constant demands to include Garhwali in the 8th schedule of the Constitution of India so that it could be made one of the Scheduled Language of India. In July 2010, a Member of Parliament from Pauri Garhwal, Satpal Maharaj brought a private member's bill in the Lok Sabha to include Garhwali and Kumaoni languages in the Eighth Schedule of the Constitution. As is the case with most private member's bills, this bill was not discussed in parliament and has since lapsed.\n\nThere have been small movements to preserve and develop Garhwali language and culture but primarily, these have been restricted to individuals and communities.\n\nThe Akhil Garhwal Sabha, a citizen's group in Dehradun aims to raise awareness amongst young Garhwalis about Garhwali language and culture. From 2012 onwards, it has been organising an annual 2 week Garhwali language workshop in which it provides training in the language and presents the interesting specificities of the language to the learners in Dehradun. It has also been the organiser of a series of 7 days cultural programmes called Kautig Uttarakhand Mahotsava from 1998 onwards to promote traditional folk dances and traditions of Uttarakhand.It publishes a monthly Garhwali newspaper called Rant Raibar. On the initiative of the Akhil Garhwal Sabha, the Uttarakhand state department of culture published a comprehensive dictionary of the Garhwali language which has Hindi and English meanings of the Garhwali words. A team of authors led by eminent Garhwali scholars Achalanand Jakhmola and BP Nautiyal sourced Garhwali words spoken in all areas of Garhwal and compiled them in a most comprehensive lexicon of the language.\n\nWinsar Publishing Company is an organisation that has dedicated a large part of its publications to Garhwali language and literature.\n\nThe first Garhwali language app called ‘Chakhul Garhwali Dictionary’ that lists Garhwali words as well as information on Garhwali culture, traditions and heritage was launched in 2015.\n\nIn 2017, the Delhi state government announced its intention to create 12 regional language academies under the government's Art, Culture and Languages Department including an academy for Garhwali language. In 2018, the Uttarakhand state government announced plans to launch a State Cultural Centre as a hub of all cultural activities in Dehradun which would have an auditorium, six art galleries, a library, a museum, an amphitheatre and a place for symposiums and seminars to promote Uttarakhand's traditional ‘Pahari’ language and culture.\n\nModern day Garhwali has rich literature in all genres including poetry, novels, short stories and plays. Earlier, Garhwali language was present only as folklore. It had practically no literature. Though according to Saklani, a regular literary activity throughout the known history of Garhwal has been reported with most of such efforts related to the orthodox themes of religious matters, poetics, astronomy, astrology, and ayurveda, etc. Most of these works were the copies of the ancient texts, however, few original works related to history, poetry, religion, and architecture are also said to exist. It was only in the 20th century, due to the influence of English language, modern literary forms and themes were adopted. This literature was written both in Hindi and Garhwali.\n\nThe oldest manuscript in Garhwali that has been found is a poem named \"Ranch Judya Judige Ghimsaan Ji\" written by Pt. Jayadev Bahuguna (16th century). In 1828 AD, Maharaja Sudarshan Shah wrote \"Sabhaasaar\". In 1830 AD, American missionaries published the New Testament in Garhwali. The Gospel of St. Matthew in Garhwali was printed at Lucknow in the year 1876. Pandit Gobind Prasad Ghildyal, B.A. translated the first part of the Hindi Rajniti into Garhwali, and this was printed at Almora in 1901. Several specimens of Garhwali were also found in Pandit Ganga Datt Upreti's 'Hill Dialects of the Kumaon Division'. Pandit Ganga Datt Upreti also collected and published 'Proverbs & folklore of Kumaun and Garhwal' in 1894. The principal forms of Garhiwali Grammar were first published in Dr. Kellogg's Hindi Grammar (2nd edition, London, 1893). The first and comprehensive research work about the Garhwali language, its various dialects, where is it spoken, number of speakers, grammar, vocabulary, phrases and specimens was done in Part IV - Volume IX of the Linguistics Survey of India.\n\nThe five local Hindi newspapers of Garhwal of the early 20th century helped to bring about cultural and political awakening in Garhwal. The early writers keen to project and nurture the cultural heritage of Garhwal. These papers were conscious of the cultural-exclusiveness of the region and nurtured the feeling for 'Garhwal nationalism'. Atma Ram Gairola wrote in a poem that Garhwalis of both the parts (State and British) are extremely proud of the fact that 'we are Garhwalis'. Writers like Chandra Mohan Raturi and Tara Dutt Gairola asked the young writers to write only in the 'Garhwali' language, because one could write more sweetly, poignantly and judiciously in one's own mother tongue. These poets and writers brought renaissance in the Garhwali literature. Collections of various oral-folk-literary traditions, like ancient folk songs, Mangal, Bhadiyali, Panwara etc were also made available during this period.\n\nSome of the famous writers of Garhwal of that era were Sudarsan Shah, Kumudanand Bahuguna, Hari Dutt Sharma (Nautiyal), Hari Krishna Daurgadutti Rudola, Urvi Dutt Shastri, Bal Krishna Bhatt, Mahidhar Dangwal, etc. Few writers writing in Garhwali were Chandra Mohan Raturi, Satyasaran Raturi, Atma Ram Gairola, Sanatananand Saklani, Devendra Dutt Raturi, Suradutt Saklani, etc. Some of the historians were Mola Ram, Miya Prem Singh, Hari Dutt Shastri, Hari Krishna Raturi, Vijaya Ram Raturi.\n\nGarhwali literature has been flourishing despite government negligence. Today, newspapers like \"Uttarakhand Khabarsar\" and \"Rant Raibaar\" are published entirely in Garhwali. Magazines like \"Baduli\", \"Hilaans\", \"Chitthi-patri\" and \"Dhaad\" contribute to the development of the Garhwali language.\n\nIn 2010, the Sahitya Akademi conferred Bhasha Samman on two Garhwali writers: Sudama Prasad 'Premi' and Premlal Bhatt. The Sahitya Akademi also organized \"Garhwali Bhasha Sammelan\"(Garhwali Language Convention) at Pauri Garhwal in June 2010. Many Garhwali Kavi Sammelan (poetry readings) are organized in different parts of Uttarakhand and, in Delhi and Mumbai.\n\n\nIn the last few decades Garhwali folk singers like Narendra Singh Negi, Preetam Bhartwan and many more have roused people's interest in the Garhwali language by their popular songs and videos. On average there is one movie in four or five years in Garhwali. \nAnuj Joshi (Hindi: अनुज जोशी) is one of the prominent Garhwali film director.\n\nIn order to create a folk genome tank of Uttarakhand where one can find each genre and occasions in the form of folk music, and to bring the melodious folk from the heart of Himalaya to the global screen, the very first Internet radio of Kumaon/Garhwal/Jaunsar was launched in 2008 by a group of non-resident Uttarakhandi from New York, which has been gaining significant popularity among inhabitants and migrants since its beta version was launched in 2010. This was named after a very famous melody of the hills of Himalaya, Bedupako Baramasa O Narain Kafal Pako Chaita Bedupako\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893448", "title": "Lake Murray Country", "text": "Lake Murray Country\n\nLake Murray Country is a large area of South Carolina, United States; the region includes the counties of Newberry, Saluda, Lexington, and Richland.\n\nThe region's focal point is Lake Murray. Lake Murray's name comes from its chief engineer William S. Murray. The Saluda Dam supplies a large portion of the power to South Carolina. The dam was the largest earthen dam in cubical content for power purposes in the world at its time of creation.\n"}
{"id": "1893453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893453", "title": "Tupper Lake (town), New York", "text": "Tupper Lake (town), New York\n\nTupper Lake is a town in the southwest corner of Franklin County, New York, United States. The population was 5,971 at the 2010 census. The town contains a village called Tupper Lake. Until July 2004, the town was known as \"Altamont\", not to be confused with the village of Altamont in Albany County.\n\nIn 1850 the Pomeroy Lumber Company began a logging operation in the area. A clearing left by clear-cutting the forest by Raquette Pond became the site of the village of Tupper Lake. In the 1890s, a large number of buildings were erected, but in 1899 a fire burned 169 of them to the ground. As the lumber business swelled, the village of Faust became a railroad hub, and so the village of Tupper Lake prospered.\n\nIn the 1940s the villages of Faust and Tupper Lake combined to become the village of Tupper Lake. The former village of Faust began where Main Street meets Demars Boulevard and continued west beyond the cemetery. The former village of Faust is now known as \"The Junction\", still called to this day by the people of Tupper Lake. It was so named due to the junction of railroad lines located in Faust. The only reference left to the town of Faust is the Faust Motel, located on Main Street. The Faust Roundhouse (one of the largest buildings in the area at the time) was located behind Web Row and near the railroad station. It burned to the ground in the 1940s.\n\nThe Oval Wood Dish Corporation mill was located in the area between the villages of Faust and Tupper Lake and was originally owned by the Sisson family of Potsdam, New York. The area encompassing the mill and the houses and apartments built across from the mill for the workers was called \"Sissonville\". Through neglect the buildings eventually went to ruin and were demolished. The large smokestack bearing the letters \"OWD\" in the center of town still stands as an icon of Tupper Lake's lumbering past.\n\nThe town of Altamont was organized in 1890 from the town of Waverly and was the last town organized in the county. In 1913, a part of St. Lawrence County was added to the town of Altamont.\n\nIn an effort to avoid confusion with other \"Altamonts\" around the state and to strengthen ties with the village of Tupper Lake, town councilors changed the town name from \"Altamont\" to \"Tupper Lake\" on July 16, 2004.\n\nAs of 2013 logging remained a business/industry in Tupper Lake but the winter season, when roads are frozen and can support heavy logging equipment, has been growing shorter.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the town has a total area of , of which is land and , or 9.80%, is water.\n\nThe town is inside the Adirondack Park. The south town line is the border of Hamilton County, and the west town line is the border of St. Lawrence County.\n\nTupper Lake is a water body in the southwest part of the town, and crosses the county line into St. Lawrence County.\n\nNew York State Route 3 joins New York State Route 30 at Tupper Lake village; the highways are conjoined through the eastern part of the town.\n\nThe Raquette River, a northwest flowing tributary of the St. Lawrence River, flows past Tupper Lake village.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 6,137 people, 2,429 households, and 1,530 families residing in the town. The population density was 52.2 people per square mile (20.1/km²). There were 3,118 housing units at an average density of 26.5 per square mile (10.2/km²). The racial makeup of the town was 97.56% White, 1.27% African American, 0.29% Native American, 0.08% Asian, 0.08% from other races, and 0.72% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.57% of the population.\n\nThere were 2,429 households out of which 32.0% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 46.2% were married couples living together, 12.4% had a female householder with no husband present, and 37.0% were non-families. 30.6% of all households were made up of individuals and 14.7% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.38 and the average family size was 2.97.\n\nIn the town, the population was spread out with 24.6% under the age of 18, 7.4% from 18 to 24, 29.3% from 25 to 44, 22.0% from 45 to 64, and 16.7% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 38 years. For every 100 females, there were 101.7 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 95.9 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the town was $35,636, and the median income for a family was $45,000. Males had a median income of $30,951 versus $25,938 for females. The per capita income for the town was $15,696. About 6.9% of families and 33.4% of the population were below the poverty line, including 11.8% of those under age 18 and 14.1% of those age 65 or over.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893462", "title": "Penicillamine", "text": "Penicillamine\n\nPenicillamine, sold under the trade names of Cuprimine among others, is a medication primarily used for the treatment of Wilson's disease. It is also used for people with kidney stones who have high urine cystine levels, rheumatoid arthritis, and various heavy metal poisonings. It is taken by mouth.\nCommon side effects include rash, loss of appetite, nausea, diarrhea, and low blood white blood cell levels. Other serious side effects include liver problems, obliterative bronchiolitis, and myasthenia gravis. It is not recommended in people with lupus erythematosus. Use during pregnancy may result in harm to the baby. Penicillamine works by binding heavy metals; the resulting penicillamine–metal complexes are then removed from the body in the urine.\nPenicillamine was approved for medical use in the United States in 1970. It is on the World Health Organization's List of Essential Medicines. The wholesale cost in the developing world is about US$0.55 to $1.20 a dose. A month supply in the United Kingdom costs the NHS about £178 as of 2019. In the United States the costs of the medication increased from about 500 USD to 24,000 USD per month in 2016.\n\nIt is used as a chelating agent:\n\nIn cystinuria, a hereditary disorder in which high urine cystine levels lead to the formation of cystine stones, penicillamine binds with cysteine to yield a mixed disulfide which is more soluble than cystine.\n\nPenicillamine has been used to treat scleroderma.\n\nPenicillamine can be used as a disease-modifying antirheumatic drug (DMARD) to treat severe active rheumatoid arthritis in patients who have failed to respond to an adequate trial of conventional therapy, although it is rarely used today due to availability of TNF inhibitors and other agents, such as tocilizumab and tofacitinib. Penicillamine works by reducing numbers of T-lymphocytes, inhibiting macrophage function, decreasing IL-1, decreasing rheumatoid factor, and preventing collagen from cross-linking.\n\nBone marrow suppression, dysgeusia, anorexia, vomiting and diarrhea are the most common side effects, occurring in ~20–30% of the patients treated with penicillamine.\n\nOther possible adverse effects include:\n\nPenicillamine is a trifunctional organic compound, consisting of a thiol, an amine, and a carboxylic acid. It is structurally similar to the α-amino acid cysteine, but with geminal dimethyl substituents α to the thiol. Like most amino acids, it is a colorless solid that exists in the zwitterionic form at physiological pH. Of its two enantiomers, -penicillamine (having \"R\" absolute configuration) is toxic because it inhibits the action of pyridoxine (also known as vitamin B). That enantiomer is a metabolite of penicillin but has no antibiotic properties itself. A variety of penicillamine–copper complex structures are known.\n\nJohn Walshe first described the use of penicillamine in Wilson's disease in 1956. He had discovered the compound in the urine of patients (including himself) who had taken penicillin, and experimentally confirmed that it increased urinary copper excretion by chelation. He had initial difficulty convincing several world experts of the time (Denny Brown and Cumings) of its efficacy, as they held that Wilson's disease was not primarily a problem of copper homeostasis but of amino acid metabolism, and that dimercaprol should be used as a chelator. Later studies confirmed both the copper-centered theory and the efficacy of -penicillamine. Walshe also pioneered other chelators in Wilson's such as triethylene tetramine dihydrochloride and tetrathiomolybdate.\n\nPenicillamine was first synthesized by John Cornforth (Somerville College, Oxford) under supervision of Robert Robinson.\n\nPenicillamine has been used in rheumatoid arthritis since the first successful case in 1964.\n"}
{"id": "1893465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893465", "title": "Carina Round", "text": "Carina Round\n\nCarina Round (born 20 April 1979) is a British singer-songwriter from Wolverhampton in the West Midlands of England.\n\nIn the summer of 1996, following a gig in a basement acoustic club in Wolverhampton, Round was given a three-night support at Ronnie Scott's club in Birmingham. This led to support slots with the likes of David Gray, Miles Hunt, Ben Christophers, Mark Eitzel, Cousteau, Elbow, I am Kloot, Turin Brakes, Ed Harcourt and Ryan Adams, who after she supported him in Birmingham, invited her to be his guest at his London shows. At these shows, they again performed their co-written song \"Idiots Dance\" and \"Come Pick Me Up\" as encores. The following months saw Round joined by Simon Jason Smith on double-bass, Marcus Galley on drums and guitarist Tom Livemore. Their first gig together was a special one-off supporting Coldplay at the Birmingham Songwriters Festival.\n\nThis band recorded debut album \"The First Blood Mystery\" at Magic Garden Studios with friend and producer Gavin Monaghan. The album was recorded and mixed in ten days, and released in the UK through Animal Noise in 2001. Round then toured the UK with Glenn Tilbrook.\n\nShe returned in 2003 with \"The Disconnection\", again recorded at Magic Garden Studios with Gavin Monaghan. The album was released in the UK with a cover shot by Anoushka Fisz (wife of Dave Stewart from the Eurythmics who supported her since), then released in 2004 with a different, less visually disturbing cover photo, on Interscope in the US. The album garnered comparisons to Björk, Jeff Buckley and Robert Plant. Round promoted \"The Disconnection\" with a tour of the UK in late 2003, and another tour in January 2004. This was followed by a month-long tour of the US before returning to the UK for another tour with Damien Dempsey and James Blunt.\n\nRound moved to LA in 2005 to produce \"Slow Motion Addict\" with Glen Ballard, which featured a more accessible, electronic-embellished sound. The album's release was delayed by a full year, but was eventually released in the US in 2007.\n\nThat same year, she appeared on \"Cruel Melody\", the title track of the debut album of Black Light Burns, a band fronted by Limp Bizkit guitarist Wes Borland. Also in 2007, Round was chosen as Annie Lennox's support act for her US tour, which was followed by dates in the UK later that year and in early 2008.\n\nOn 12 May 2009, Round released a five-track EP called \"Things You Should Know\". The EP is available on general digital release, with physical copies available only at her shows. Pre-orders of the digital EP came with two extra tracks – acoustic versions of \"Do You\" and \"For Everything a Reason\". A video and a remix are available for the first track on the EP, \"Backseat\".\n\nIn fall 2009 Round became a touring member of Puscifer, Maynard James Keenan of Tool's Arizona based project, working on their album \"Conditions of My Parole\" and began opening the live shows.\n\nDuring this time, Round also sang on The Twilight Singers' album \"Dynamite Steps\". She also worked with Ballard again and Oscar-nominated composer John Debney on a song composed for the film \"Valentines Day\". She wrote with Academy Award nominee Marco Beltrami, as well as finishing up an album with her alt-country side project Early Winters, which was self-released earlier in the year.\n\nHer songs 'For Everything A Reason' and 'Do You' are featured in the FX series \"American Horror Story\".\n\nIn October 2011 it was announced that Round would be touring with Puscifer again. She opened for Puscifer at the Seattle, Washington opening show of the North American Conditions of My Parole tour on 7 November 2011. This was in addition to performing as a member of Puscifer.\n\nCarina Round released \"Tigermending\", an 11-track album produced by Round and Dan Burns on 1 May 2012 via Dehisce Records and distributed through The Orchard. Collaborators include Dave Stewart and Brian Eno (\"The Secret of Drowning\") and Billy Corgan (\"Got to Go (2000 Years BC Mix\").\n\nShe also appears as a guest vocalist on \"Valleyheart\", the 2013 album by Canadian singer-songwriter Justin Rutledge, who is one of Round's bandmates in Early Winters.\n\nIn April 2013 she performed with Puscifer at Coachella and Lollapalooza Chile and Brazil.\n\nIn February 2014 she appears as a guest vocalist on the track, \"I Feel\" on Sierra Swan's album \"Good Soldier\", produced by Billy Corgan.\n\nIn 2016 and 2019 she toured with Tears for Fears, handling backup vocals and lead on two songs.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893466", "title": "Kevin Romine", "text": "Kevin Romine\n\nKevin Andrew Romine (born May 23, 1961) is a former utility outfielder in Major League Baseball who played for the Boston Red Sox throughout his career (1985–1991).\n\nA New Hampshire native, Romine batted and threw right-handed. After attending Fountain Valley High School, he had an All-American career at Arizona State University, after which he was selected in the second round of the Major League Baseball amateur draft by the Boston Red Sox and subsequently played six seasons in Boston.\n\nOn July 16, 1988, Romine connected off the Kansas City Royals' Steve Farr in the bottom of the ninth for a 7-6 Red Sox victory. Romine accomplished the same feat on July 2, 1990, when he blasted a ninth-inning, game-winning home run off the Texas Rangers' Kenny Rogers. In 1989, Romine set a career high in games, filling in for outfielders Dwight Evans and Ellis Burks, batting .274. On July 2, 1989, Romine went 5 for 5 against the Toronto Blue Jays.\n\nThe final home run of his career, on May 5, 1991 off the Chicago White Sox Alex Fernandez, was a grand slam. He was released in the middle of the 1991 season after batting .164.\n\nHis career stats included a .251 batting average, with 5 home runs and 55 RBIs. He had 30 doubles and 1 triple in 630 career at bats.\n\nRomine's two sons have both made it to the major leagues. Andrew Romine plays in the Chicago White Sox organization, while Austin Romine plays for the Detroit Tigers.\n\nAfter his retirement from baseball, Romine became a police detective in California.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893473", "title": "Tupper Lake (village), New York", "text": "Tupper Lake (village), New York\n\nTupper Lake is a village in Franklin County, New York, United States. The population was 3,667 at the 2010 census. The village is located within the boundaries of the Adirondack Park, west of Lake Placid. Along with nearby Saranac Lake, these three villages make up what is known as the Tri-Lakes region.\n\nThe village of Tupper Lake is in the town of Tupper Lake. The town and the village are in the southwest part of the county.\n\nTupper Lake is home to The Wild Center, a natural history center on a campus.\n\nSettlement began around 1844. The village was settled during the town's lumber production period and grew after it gained railroad service. The early village was composed of two parts, Tupper Lake proper and Faust. The town for a time held the distinction as the top lumber producer in the state.\n\nThe great fire of 1899 burned more than 169 structures in the village, two-thirds of them homes. The modern village grew out of this destruction and added all the amenities of a modern community earlier than many other villages in the state. Tupper had its own department store and synagogue, and its sprawling railway yards, driven by the lumber trade, made it a hub for the surrounding Adirondack communities.\n\nThe village of Tupper Lake is located near the center of the town of Tupper Lake at , on the east shore of Raquette Pond, the northern end of the Tupper Lake water body. According to the United States Census Bureau, the village has a total area of , of which is land and , or 2.06%, is water.\n\nNew York State Route 3 and New York State Route 30 intersect at the village. NY 3 leads west to Watertown, and NY 30 leads south to Amsterdam on the Mohawk River. The two highways lead east out of Tupper Lake together, with NY 30 eventually turning north towards Malone, from Tupper Lake, and NY 3 continuing east to Saranac Lake.\n\nThe Raquette River flows past the south side of the village, entering Tupper Lake/Raquette Pond. The river continues northwest out of the Adirondacks through Potsdam, eventually joining the St. Lawrence River northeast of Massena.\n\nAs of the census of 2000, there were 3,935 people, 1,684 households, and 988 families residing in the village. The population density was 2,212.7 people per square mile (853.5/km²). There were 1,839 housing units at an average density of 1,034.1 per square mile (398.9/km²). The racial makeup of the village was 97.89% White, 0.76% African American, 0.30% Native American, 0.05% Asian, 0.10% from other races, and 0.89% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 0.51% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,684 households out of which 31.2% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 40.1% were married couples living together, 13.8% had a female householder with no husband present, and 41.3% were non-families. 34.0% of all households were made up of individuals and 17.9% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.31 and the average family size was 2.97.\n\nIn the village, the population was spread out with 26.5% under the age of 18, 7.7% from 18 to 24, 28.9% from 25 to 44, 19.8% from 45 to 64, and 17.1% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 36 years. For every 100 females, there were 95.0 males. For every 100 females age 18 and over, there were 88.1 males.\n\nThe median income for a household in the village was $31,654, and the median income for a family was $40,152. Males had a median income of $30,169 versus $24,273 for females. The per capita income for the village was $15,567. About 7.7% of families and 11.7% of the population were below the poverty line, including 14.0% of those under age 18 and 12.7% of those age 65 or over.\n\nTupper Lake High School is the home of the Lumberjacks and Ladyjacks. Their mascot is a bearded Lumberjack wearing a red and black flannel shirt and black pants with suspenders holding an axe. The school colors are red and black.\n\nAccording to the Köppen climate classification system, Tupper Lake has a Warm-summer, Humid continental climate (\"Dfb\"). \"Dfb\" climates are characterized by a least one month having an average mean temperature ≤ , at least four months with an average mean temperature ≥ , all months with an average mean temperature < and no significant precipitation difference between seasons. Although most summer days are comfortably humid in Tupper Lake, episodes of heat and high humidity can occur with heat index values > . Since 1981, the highest air temperature was on 08/03/1988, and the highest daily average mean dew point was on 08/01/2006. Since 1981, the wettest calendar day was on 11/08/1996. During the winter months, the average annual extreme minimum air temperature is . Since 1981, the coldest air temperature was on 01/04/1981. Episodes of extreme cold and wind can occur with wind chill values < . The average annual snowfall total (Sep-May) is between and .\n\nAccording to the A. W. Kuchler U.S. potential natural vegetation types, Tupper Lake would have a dominant vegetation type of Northern Hardwoods/Spruce (\"108\") with a dominant vegetation form of Northern Hardwoods (\"23\"). The plant hardiness zone is 4a with an average annual extreme minimum air temperature of . The spring bloom typically peaks around May 11 and fall color usually peaks around October 2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893493", "title": "Leahy", "text": "Leahy\n\nLeahy is a Canadian folk music group. The eight band members, all from the Leahy family of 11 siblings, are from Lakefield, Ontario and have been touring Canada and internationally since the early 1980s, when they were known as The Leahy Family. In 1985, they were the subject of a short film entitled \"Leahy: Music Most of All\" which received an Academy Award in the category of \"Best Foreign Student Film.\"\nThe members of Leahy take significant pride in their Irish roots and Canadian upbringing.\n\nThe line-up of the group varies depending upon the availability of its members, who are present or absent due to marriage, childrearing and other obligations. During the 1980s and early 1990s, the band recorded a number of privately released LPs and cassettes (most of which used the same title, \"The Leahy Family\") which were sold at their concerts and they were frequent guests at the Big Valley Jamboree concerts in Saskatchewan and Alberta.\n\nIn 1997, the band resumed recording with their \"relaunch\" album, \"Leahy\" which also introduced the group's new branding. \"Leahy\" was an instrumental album, but the band also includes vocal performances in their live performances and subsequent albums have included both vocals and instrumentals.\n\nDespite their established history, they were awarded two Juno awards in 1998, for Best New Group and Best Instrumental Artist. The following year, Leahy took a third Juno Award, for Best Country Group or Duo. Also in 1998, Leahy were added as the opening act for Canadian country singer Shania Twain's 1998 Come on Over Tour and were featured in two television specials from the tour, \"Live\" and \"The Specials\", performing with Twain on the song \"Don't Be Stupid (You Know I Love You)\".\n\nThe group's members are both instrumentalists and dancers, with several members skilled in fiddle-playing (most notably the band's most famous member, Donnell). The female members of the band often perform step-dancing-style routines and do most of the singing.\n\nAll members of the band are siblings. Each member has a main role to play in the band; although most play more than one instrument and all step dance. Donnell Leahy is married to Cape Breton fiddler Natalie MacMaster and Frank is married to champion step dancer Chanda Gibson.\n\nIn 2008, Donnell Leahy and Natalie MacMaster were awarded honorary doctorate degrees by Trent University.\n\n\nThese three sisters are not currently active in the band's touring schedule.\n\nIn addition, the group released several vinyl LPs and cassettes in the 1980s as The Leahy Family. These self-titled releases were privately pressed and usually sold at their concerts, although \"Christmas with the Leahy Family\" was carried by retailers such as A&B Sound.\n\nLeahy - Chasing Rain (January 12, 2004 – November 30, 2009)\n\nLeahy - B Minor (March 1, 1997 – September 18, 2009)\n\nLeahy - Call To Dance (July 11, 1997 – January 4, 2008)\n\nLeahy - Mission (November 2, 2000 – August 29, 2007)\n\nLeahy - Down That Road (February 24, 2002 – October 1, 2008)\n\n"}
{"id": "1893495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893495", "title": "RCAF Station Beaverbank", "text": "RCAF Station Beaverbank\n\nRCAF Station Beaver Bank was a long-range Pinetree Line early warning radar station operated by the Royal Canadian Air Force, located in central Nova Scotia near the community of Beaver Bank. The site is now known as Beaver Bank Villa.\n\nRCAF Station Beaver Bank was approximately 40 km (25 mi) north of the twin cities of Halifax-Dartmouth. The station sat on 430 acres (1.7 km²) with about a half a mile (800 m) separation between the domestic and the operations site; both sites being divided by the county line between Halifax County (domestic site) and Hants County (operations site).\n\nThe 22 Aircraft Control & Warning Squadron was the operational unit posted to the station, its colours having been created in 1953 and the unit made operational a year later in the fall of 1954. The radar unit itself was manually operated and reported to the Fredericton NORAD Sector at RCAF Station St. Margarets until September 1962 when this was changed to the Bangor NORAD Sector at Topsham AFS.\n\nThe 22 AC&W became SAGE-operational on January 1, 1964 however this capability did not last long as the station was closed and the squadron disbanded 4 months later on April 1, 1964 following a NORAD realignment and increasing focus being placed on the DEW Line. After the closure of the base, it had been used briefly as a cement factory.\n\nRCAF Station Beaver Bank occupied a unique location in proximity to Canada's largest Atlantic seaport and its biggest naval base, making it an important early warning radar during the manual environment of the 1950s. Since manned bomber raids by the Soviet Union in the area were considered quite likely, it was felt that RCAF Station Beaver Bank fulfilled a critical role in the early days of Canada's and North America's air defence. The station was originally financed by the United States Air Force, although operational responsibility rested with the RCAF, until 1962 when the RCAF assumed financial responsibility as well.\n\nIn the mid-70s the base was converted to a concrete plant. This was only used for a few years before the base was abandoned, then resold. The base headquarters were turned into a nursing home called Ivy Meadows which is run by the Rosecrest family. The retirement home still stands, though the surrounding area is abandoned and most of the other buildings were demolished in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893496", "title": "Cuba at the 1992 Summer Olympics", "text": "Cuba at the 1992 Summer Olympics\n\nCuba competed at the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona, Spain. The nation returned to the Olympic Games after boycotting both the 1984 Games and the 1988 Games. 176 competitors, 126 men and 50 women, took part in 90 events in 16 sports.\n\n\n\n\nMen's 4 × 400 m Relay\n\nMen's Marathon\n\nMen's Long Jump\n\nMen's Triple Jump\n\nMen's Discus Throw\n<br>\nWomen's 800 metres\n\nWomen's Discus Throw\n\nWomen's High Jump\n\nThe first Olympic baseball tournament resulted in sevens wins and no losses in the preliminary round for Cuba. A comfortable 6–1 victory over the United States and a dominant 11–1 win against Chinese Taipei earned Cuba the first Olympic gold medal for the sport.\n\nMen's Team Competition:\nTeam Roster\n\n\nMen's Light Flyweight (– 48 kg)\n\nMen's Flyweight (– 51 kg)\n\nMen's Bantamweight (– 54 kg)\n\nMen's Featherweight (– 57 kg)\n\nMen's Lightweight (– 60 kg)\n\nMen's Light Welterweight (– 63.5 kg)\n\nMen's Welterweight (– 67 kg)\n\nMen's Light Middleweight (– 71 kg)\n\nMen's Middleweight (– 75 kg)\n\nMen's Light Heavyweight (– 81 kg)\n\nMen's Heavyweight (– 91 kg)\n\nMen's Super Heavyweight (+ 91 kg)\n\nFour male cyclists represented Cuba in 1992.\n\n\n\nFive male fencers represented Cuba in 1992.\n\n\n\nMen's Half-Lightweight\n\nMen's Lightweight\n\nMen's Middleweight\n\nMen's Half-Heavyweight\n\nMen's Heavyweight\n<br>\nWomen's Extra-Lightweight\n\nWomen's Half-Lightweight\n\nWomen's Lightweight\n\nWomen's Half-Middleweight\n\nWomen's Middleweight\n\nWomen's Half-Heavyweight\n\nWomen's Heavyweight\n\nMen's 100m Backstroke\n\nMen's 200m Backstroke\n\nMen's 100m Breaststroke\n\nMen's 200m Breaststroke\n\n\n\n\nMen's Middleweight\n\nMen's Light-Heavyweight\n\nMen's Middle-Heavyweight\n\nMen's Heavyweight II\n\nMen's Super-Heavyweight\n\n"}
{"id": "1893502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893502", "title": "Claude Osteen", "text": "Claude Osteen\n\nClaude Wilson Osteen (born August 9, 1939), nicknamed \"Gomer\" because of his resemblance to television character Gomer Pyle, is an American former professional baseball left-handed pitcher, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cincinnati Redlegs/Reds, Washington Senators, Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros, St. Louis Cardinals, and Chicago White Sox.\n\nThe most significant portion of Osteen's career was spent with the Dodgers. A \"Bonus Baby\" who never really received a season-long chance to start in Cincinnati, he was traded on Sept. 16, 1961, from Cincinnati to the Washington Senators for pitcher Dave Sisler. With the Senators, Osteen finally got a chance to start regularly in the big leagues, albeit with a consistently sub-.500 team. After posting a winning record (15–13) in 1964, he was in much demand that winter. On December 4, 1964, Osteen was traded by the Senators to the Dodgers in a 7-player deal, with five players (two of whom were Frank Howard and Pete Richert) going to the Senators. Osteen developed into one of the game's better starters in Los Angeles.\n\nAfter two years with an earned run average (ERA) under 3.00 (–), Osteen was considered a top-notch starter and a workhorse. In those two years, Osteen and the Dodgers reached two straight World Series (the only two he would reach in his career). In the 1965 World Series, the Dodgers went on to beat the Minnesota Twins in 7 games, with Osteen pitching brilliantly. He had a 0.64 ERA in the Series, with a 1–1 record including a shutout, which came after teammates Don Drysdale and Sandy Koufax had lost their respective games (the first two games of the Series). In the 1966 World Series, the Dodgers were beaten by the Baltimore Orioles in four games. Osteen was charged with the loss, in a 1–0 pitcher's duel with Wally Bunker in Game 3, despite giving up only three hits in seven innings; a home run by Paul Blair accounted for the game's only run. Osteen's final postseason statistics include a 0.86 ERA with seven strikeouts in 21 innings pitched.\nIn , Osteen reached his first All-Star game. His season totals included going 17–17, with a 3.22 ERA, in 288 innings pitched. He hurled 14 complete games, with five shutouts. In , Osteen was one of the game's consistent hard-luck losers; despite a very respectable 3.08 ERA, he only won 12 of 30 decisions. The 12 victories would be his fewest in a season from 1964–1973; the 18 losses tied him with Ray Sadecki for the major league lead. In , Osteen won 20 games for the first time and set a number of career highs, including 321 innings pitched, 183 strikeouts, 16 complete games, and 7 shutouts.\n\nIn the 1970s, Osteen was still pitching an average of 260 innings a year. In the 1970 All-Star game, Osteen pitched three shutout innings, notching the win, in a game most remembered for the play in which Pete Rose barreled into Ray Fosse to score the winning run in the 12th inning. Coincidentally, like Osteen, the pitcher and hitter involved in the walk-off single were also Tennessee natives: Jim Hickman (who had been a Dodger teammate of Osteen's in 1967) collected the hit off losing pitcher Clyde Wright (coincidentally, Hickman and Wright would become Comeback Players of the Year in their respective leagues).\n\nIn , Osteen had a particularly strong year, finishing with 7 complete game victories in his last 9 starts. That year, he was 20–11, with a 2.64 ERA, in 252 innings pitched.\nOsteen made his 3rd and final All-Star team in 1973, in what would prove to be his last real quality MLB campaign — and his last season with the Dodgers. That year, while pitching for a 2nd-place Dodger team, Osteen went 16–11 and posted a 3.31 ERA, while logging 33 starts, 12 complete games, and 3 shutouts. He had achieved double-figure wins each year, for 10 consecutive seasons (1964–1973).\n\nPrior to the season, the Dodgers traded Osteen to the Houston Astros for outfielder Jimmy Wynn. Wynn helped the Dodgers win the 1974 NL pennant The Astros traded Osteen to the St. Louis Cardinals in August of 1974. On September 11, 1974 he pitched 9 innings of relief against the New York Mets in a 25 inning game, won by St. Louis 4-3. He did not figure in the decision. In April 1975, he was release by the Cardinals and was signed by the Chicago White Sox, for whom he played his final game on September 27, 1975. That following spring, when Osteen no longer fit in the ChiSox’ future plans, the team released him.\n\nOver the course of an 18-year professional career, Osteen compiled 196 wins, 1,612 strikeouts, and a 3.30 ERA.\n\nAs a batter, Osteen had a lifetime .188 batting average, with 8 home runs, and 76 runs batted in (RBI). He was used as pinch hitter on a number of occasions. Defensively, he recorded a .971 fielding percentage which was 18 points higher than the league average at his position.\n\nBeginning in , Osteen became a big league pitching coach for the Cardinals, Philadelphia Phillies, Texas Rangers, and Dodgers. He also coached various minor league teams.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1893509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893509", "title": "Transport in Lincolnshire", "text": "Transport in Lincolnshire\n\nLincolnshire is a large county in England with a sparse population distribution, which leads to problems funding all sorts of transport. The transport history is long and varied, with much of the road network still based on the Roman model, and the once extensive rail network a shadow of its former self.\n\nBeing on the economic periphery of England, Lincolnshire's transport links are less well developed than many other parts of the United Kingdom. The road network within the county is dominated by single-carriageway A roads and the minor B roads rather than motorways or dual carriageways – the administrative county of Lincolnshire is one of the small number of UK counties without a motorway (the M180, the principal link between South Yorkshire and the North Sea coast, runs exclusively within the boundaries of North Lincolnshire). Three trunk roads are located in Lincolnshire, these are maintained by Highways England, a public owned company that is responsible for trunk routes across England. These are the A1, A46 & A52. Following a north-south axis, the most important route into and out of the county is the A1 (formerly the Great North Road) linking the county with London and south-east England as well as the important population centres of northern England and Scotland. The A1 is entirely a dual carriageway in Lincolnshire. The A46 reaches across the entire county, from Newick to Grimsby. The A46 is a trunk route between the county boarder near Newick to Lincoln, this section of road is almost entirely a Dual Carriageway, beyond Lincoln, the A46 is maintained by the local council and is entirely single carriageway. The A57 is entirely Singe Carriageway in Lincolnshire, West of the A1 it is a trunk route, East of the A1 it is maintained by the local council.\n\nOther important routes in Lincolnshire include the A15, A16, A17 & A158. The A15 & A16 run on the north-south axis, the with A16 being near the West coast, while the A15 being between the A1 and A16. Both routes are almost entirely single carriageway with small amounts of dual carriageway in built up areas. The A17 & A158 run on the east-west axis, the with A158 being located north of the A17. The A17 has the most rural dual carriageway distance of any of the roads in Lincolnshire, with Dual Carriageways being present at Beckingham, Sleaford & Holbeach.\n\nPartly because of its fast and flat (but deceptively undulating) roads, Lincolnshire has one of the worst road accident records of the UK counties (as measured in terms of road fatalities per head of population). In a national effort to cut the number of speed-related deaths and injuries, the county's residents became early \"guinea pigs\" in a programme to roll out speed cameras across the country.\n\nBus services within the county are also limited in number, due to the inherent economic feasibility of serving a scattered population living across an area with low population density. Many smaller villages in the county have no regular bus service, making access to a private vehicle the only practical means of living in many parts of the county. The services that do exist almost exclusively serve the large population centres (e.g. Lincoln, Grantham, Boston, Skegness, Grimsby, Cleethorpes, Scunthorpe) and mid-sized market towns (e.g. Horncastle, Gainsborough) and a number of their dormitory and commuter villages.\n\nThe main bus company in the county, Stagecoach in Lincolnshire, was bought out by Stagecoach in late 2005. Stagecoach Grimsby-Cleethorpes runs buses in North East Lincolnshire\n\nSmaller companies like the Delaine Buses and Kimes offer local services of considerable importance. A group of five of them offer integrated services under the InterConnect banner, including dial-up requested routings.\n\nThe low population density of the county means that the number of railway stations and train services is rather low considering the county's large physical size. A large number of the county's railway stations were permanently closed in the 1950s and 1960s, many following the Beeching Report of 1963.\n\nAn early closure (in 1959) was the whole of the former Midland and Great Northern Joint Railway line through Sutton Bridge, Spalding, and Bourne and west to the Midlands. No obvious alternative to this route was available, and the loss has affected development and caused road congestion ever since.\n\nOne of the first railways to close in Lincolnshire was the Earl of Ancaster's estate railway, which ran from the East Coast Main Line at Little Bytham, through the Grimsthorpe estate to Edenham. It operated until the 1870s.\n\nA daily through train service operated between Cleethorpes and London King's Cross via Grimsby, Market Rasen and Lincoln until 1993 when it was discontinued due to issues with the length of the platforms at Lincoln not being long enough for InterCity 125 trains. This necessitated passengers changing trains at Newark North Gate when travelling to or from the capital. However, the East Coast Main Line passes through the county and so it is possible to catch direct trains to London, Leeds or Edinburgh from Grantham. In December 2008 a daily East Midlands Trains service from Lincoln to London St Pancras, via Nottingham was introduced. In the summer of 2008, a major refit of Lincoln Central station improved signalling and customer facilities but did little to change the platform length issue.\n\nTransPennine Express trains from Cleethorpes run to Manchester Airport, passing through Scunthorpe and connecting to the East Coast Main Line at Doncaster before continuing via Sheffield. East Midlands Railway services between Skegness and Nottingham pass through Boston, Sleaford and Grantham.\n\nStamford station is served hourly with an east-west CrossCountry service between Peterborough and Leicester.\n\nAn hourly East Midlands Railway service from Norwich to Liverpool stops at Grantham.\n\nLincolnshire has its own airport (Humberside Airport) in the north of the county at Kirmington (a former Royal Air Force bomber airfield), between Scunthorpe, Grimsby and Lincoln. Several others are fairly easily accessible by either road or rail.\n\n\nLincolnshire is served by the Foss Dyke canal, an ancient waterway of Roman origin, which connects the River Trent and the River Witham. Brayford Pool is the inland basin in the city, once a busy transhipment point. The Witham is navigable to Boston. Access between Brayford pool and the Witham is by the Glory Hole, a low medieval bridge spanning the river. The \"Air Draught\" under the bridge is given as 9 feet 2 inches.\n\nThe River Ancholme is also navigable with the Caistor Canal branch (now disused), as are some of the larger drains in the Fens, such as the South Forty-Foot Drain and the Witham Navigable Drains.\n\nThe Fens Waterways Link is a scheme for waterways improvement for leisure boating. It proposes a new navigation between the South Forty-Foot Drain and the River Witham. The new lock gates at Black Sluice in Boston were officially opened in March 2009. Much work remains to be done on the Forty-foot before the dream can be realised of travelling from Lincoln to Cambridge.\n\nThe Horncastle Canal dates back to 1792, linking the town of Horncastle to the Witham and incorporating the route of the earlier Tattersal navigation. At least a century before what is normally called the Canal Age the Stamford Canal and Louth Canal were in use with modern style locks and towpath construction. Bourne and Sleaford had navigable river access until well into the 20th century and there are plans afoot to re-open the Sleaford Navigation.\n\nThe Grantham Canal ran for 33 miles (53 km) from Grantham through 18 locks to West Bridgford, where it joined the River Trent. It is currently under restoration.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893511", "title": "Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1", "text": "Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\n\nListen Without Prejudice Vol. 1 is the second solo studio album by the English singer-songwriter George Michael, released on 3 September 1990.\n\nThe album was Michael's final album of all-new material on Columbia Records until 2004's \"Patience\". Disappointing album sales in the US led to Michael's legal battles against Sony Music, in which he accused the corporation of not fully supporting him as an artist.\n\nAfter the massive success of Michael's 1987 \"Faith\" album, the expectations for his follow-up album were also high. In September 1990, \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" was released, receiving mixed-to-positive reviews (with the more dance-oriented \"Vol. 2\" ostensibly scheduled to follow in June 1991). The album was a stark departure from the previous LP, with largely acoustic instrumentation and a sombre intensity in many of the lyrics and melodies.\n\nGeorge Michael wanted to be taken more seriously as a songwriter, which resulted in a more thoughtful, often moody recording. The album peaked at number two on the US \"Billboard\" 200 chart. The first single released from the album was \"Praying for Time\", which reached number one on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100. The second single \"Freedom '90\" reached number 8 in the US, and in early spring 1991, \"Waiting for That Day\" peaked at number 27 in the US. \"Mother's Pride\" achieved top 40 success outside the US, but received considerable airplay in the States during the Gulf War, despite its not being released as a single.\n\nEven though the album sold eight million copies worldwide, it was viewed as a commercial disappointment in the US, with barely two million in sales, compared to the multi-platinum success of \"Faith\" (which had been certified 7× Platinum for seven million sales the year before).\n\nThe album is largely devoted to ballads and folk-styled rock songs, although there are a few dance tracks like \"Freedom\" and \"Soul Free\". There was also a remix of \"Freedom\" that incorporated elements of Soul II Soul's \"Back to Life\", which was released as a twelve-inch single and received a good deal of club play. Like \"Faith\", each track was produced and arranged by Michael himself.\n\nMichael refused to appear in many of the singles' videos for this album. Accordingly, the video for \"Praying for Time\" consists of the lyrics projected onto a dark background, while the video for \"Freedom\" featured several supermodels lip-syncing its lyrics. Directed by David Fincher, who directed Madonna's \"Vogue\" video, it featured the destruction by fire and explosion of several icons from Michael's recent \"Faith\" period.\n\nThe follow-up album \"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 2\" was scrapped for reasons known only to Michael and his record company. Three of the tracks intended for that album appear on the AIDS benefit album \"Red Hot + Dance\", while a fourth (\"Crazyman Dance\") turned up on the B-side of that album's first single, \"Too Funky\".\n\nThe album was reissued on 20 October 2017, across a number of formats, including a 3CD+DVD super deluxe edition box set, after nearly a year-long delay, and reached number one in the UK Albums Chart again, 27 years after the album first topped the chart.\n\nThe first single from the album, \"Praying for Time\", written by Michael, reached number one in the US \"Billboard\" charts and the top ten in the UK in the summer of 1990. It remained in the \"Billboard\" top 40 for ten weeks, and was the last number one solo single from Michael in the US. The second single (third in the United States), \"Waiting for That Day\", was released a month after the album's release. Owing to a borrowed lyric from The Rolling Stones' hit \"You Can't Always Get What You Want\", co-writer credits were given to Mick Jagger and Keith Richards. It reached the top 40 in the British and American charts. The single's B-side, \"Mother's Pride\" was an American airplay success when it peaked at number 46 on airplay-only chart in March 1991.\n\nThe third album single (second in the United States), \"Freedom! '90\", written by Michael, became one of Michael's signature songs. \"Freedom! '90\" was directed by David Fincher, and featured supermodels Naomi Campbell, Linda Evangelista, Christy Turlington, Tatjana Patitz, and Cindy Crawford lip syncing. It was a great success in the US chart, reaching the top ten and selling more than 500,000 copies, while earning a gold certification from the RIAA. It was the last song from the album to reach the charts in the United States. However, it was less popular in Michael's homeland when it reached the top 40 in 1991.\n\nThe next single, \"Heal the Pain\", also written by Michael, was a contemplative, acoustic guitar-based love song. It was the fourth of five singles from the album. It entered the UK chart in February 1991 and peaked at number 31, but it did not chart in the US. The fifth and last single from the album, \"Cowboys and Angels\", became the only single released by Michael in his career that did not reach the top 40 of the UK Singles Chart. It peaked at number 45. The song's low sales figures were not a surprise as it was the last single to be released from the album. Each single had finished lower than its predecessor and \"Cowboys and Angels\" continued the descent. In the US, a promo single was sent to radio in April 1991 for \"Soul Free\", called the Special Radio Edit. Despite some airplay, it also did not chart.\n\nThe album sold approximately eight million copies, a disappointing number compared to the 20 million copies of \"Faith\". Sales were particularly poor in the United States, where \"Faith\" had been the best-selling album of 1988. At two million copies sold, \"Listen Without Prejudice\" was a commercial disappointment for a successful artist. The album entered the \"Billboard\" 200 at number 22 and finally reached number two, blocked from the top by MC Hammer's \"Please Hammer Don't Hurt 'Em\". The album spent the rest of 1990 in the top ten, with a total of 42 weeks in the entire chart—fewer than half the 87 weeks spent by \"Faith\".\n\nIn the UK, the album was a huge success, eclipsing sales of \"Faith\". \"Listen Without Prejudice\" debuted there at number one, where it remained for a week. It stayed at number two for the following two weeks. It spent 34 consecutive weeks in the top 20, and jumped from number 13 to number three in its 24th week. It spent a total of 88 weeks in the UK Albums Chart, and was certified platinum four times by the BPI on 2 January 1992. The 2017 re-released edition peaked at #1 in the UK charts, and sold 56,088 copies in its first week there.\n\nThe album produced five UK hit singles, all of which were released in quick succession, within an eight-month period. These were \"Praying for Time\" (which reached number one on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart—his final US number one hit as a solo artist), \"Waiting for That Day\", \"Cowboys and Angels\", \"Freedom\", and \"Heal the Pain\".\n\nThe album won the Best British Album award at the 1991 BRIT Awards.\n\nIn 2010, the album was included in the book \"1001 Albums You Must Hear Before You Die\". In a positive appraisal of the album's 2017 deluxe reissue, \"Pitchfork\" writer Alfred Soto situated the album in the context of the then-burgeoning HIV/AIDS pandemic: \"[George Michael] understood black music as the product of a familiarity with death leavened by the banalities of earth: love, sex, comfort. Something was happening that autumn to gay artists closeted from their fans. In October [1990], Neil Tennant and Chris Lowe released \"Behaviour\", the quietest album of the Pet Shop Boys’ career. The unceasing piling up of bodies killed by HIV had made, for the moment, the bacchanal into a gauche if not repulsive gesture of sentimentality.\" \n\n\"Listen Without Prejudice Vol. 1\" was reissued in October 2017 as \"Listen Without Prejudice / MTV Unplugged\". The 2CD version includes the original remastered album on the first disc, and the \"MTV Unplugged\" concert recorded at Three Mills Studios, London on 11 October 1996 on the second disc. \"MTV Unplugged\" contains performances of \"I Can't Make You Love Me\" and \"The Strangest Thing\" that are identical to those previously released as b-sides to the single \"Older\", and the 2017 version of \"Fantasy\", reworked by Nile Rodgers and released as a single in September 2017. The Deluxe Edition includes two more discs: a CD with B-sides, remixes and rarities, and a DVD with a documentary and music videos. Rarities on the third disc include: \"If You Were My Woman\" (recorded live at the Nelson Mandela 70th Birthday Tribute concert in 1988 and featured on the \"Praying for Time\" single), \"Crazy Man Dance\" (\"Too Funky\"'s B-side) and \"Do You Really Want to Know\" and \"Happy\" (from the 1992 charity compilation, \"Red Hot + Dance\"). The original remastered album was also reissued on vinyl.\n\nNotes\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893513", "title": "Horse blanket", "text": "Horse blanket\n\nA horse blanket or rug is a blanket or animal \"coat\" intended for keeping a horse or other equine warm or otherwise protected from wind or other elements. They are tailored to fit around a horse's body from chest to rump, with straps crossing underneath the belly to secure the blanket yet allowing the horse to move about freely. Most have one or two straps that buckle in front, but a few designs have a closed front and must be slipped over a horse's head. Some designs also have small straps that loop lightly around the horse's hind legs to prevent the blanket from slipping sideways.\n\nStandard horse blankets are commonly kept on a horse when it is loose in a stall or pasture as well as when traveling. Different weights are made for different weather conditions, and some are water-resistant or waterproof. Modern materials similar to those used in human outdoor wear are commonly used in blanket manufacture.\n\nBlankets are sometimes used to keep the horse's hair short. If horses are blanketed at the beginning of the autumn, especially if kept in a lighted area for 16 hours a day, they will not grow a winter coat. Blankets also protect horses that are kept with a short clipped hair coat for show purposes. When a horse is given a full body clip, or even a partial \"trace clip\", it needs to have a blanket kept on at all times if the weather is cool because the horse no longer has the natural insulation of a longer hair coat. If a blanket is put on a horse at the beginning of the winter in order to suppress the growth of a winter coat, or if the horse is kept clipped in cold weather, the blanket cannot be taken off until warmer weather arrives in the spring. If a horse is subjected to cold weather without either a blanket or a natural hair coat to keep it warm, it may become ill, and vulnerable to sicknesses such as influenza.\n\nHeavy blankets for warmth make up the bulk of the horse blanket market, but lightweight blankets may be used in the summer to help the animal ward off flies and to prevent the hair coat from bleaching out. Such blankets are usually called a \"sheet\" or a \"fly sheet\". They are usually made of some type of nylon or strong synthetic fiber, but with the capacity to \"breathe\" so that the animal remains cool. Most have a smooth nylon lining in front to prevent hair from wearing off on the shoulders. They are becoming increasingly popular, particularly with the rise of insect borne diseases such as West Nile fever.\nAny blanket may be supplemented with a neck cover or a full hood. Neck covers are often attached directly to the blanket. Hoods are a separate piece of horse \"clothing\", which cover the neck and come down the head to just above the muzzle of the horse, with holes cut for the eyes and ears. Summer weight hoods and neck covers help keep away insects and are also frequently used to keep a horse clean before a horse show. Winter weight hoods are used for warmth.\n\nA blanket or pad used under a saddle when a horse is being ridden is called by many names, including a saddle blanket, saddle cloth, numnah, and saddle pad. They usually do not cover the horse's entire body, though a hybrid design that is a cross between a saddle blanket and a horse blanket, called a quarter sheet, is a blanket placed under the saddle but which covers the horse from shoulder to hip while riding. Quarter sheets are sometimes used in cold weather to keep a horse's muscles loosened up when warming up for competition, or on horses that may have to stand around when under saddle and run the risk of stiffening up if their muscles get chilled.\n\nA \"cooler\" or a \"mantle,\" is a large, nearly square blanket with ties that is draped over a horse that is hot and sweaty from an intense workout, or one that has just been bathed and is wet all over. It is commonly made of wool or synthetic fleece, though a few designs are made of woven cotton. It is worn as the horse is being walked to cool down and allows enough air circulation for the horse to dry, but slows the rate of drying to prevent the horse from becoming hypothermic. It is designed so it can be tied shut in front; most designs have a small browband which can be used to keep it positioned well up on the neck, and it may have a loose cord that goes beneath the tail to prevent the wind from blowing it off from the rear, but usually it has no other straps or attachments. It is intended to be used on a horse while the animal is being led or held by a person, and not left on an unattended horse. In windy weather, a loose surcingle may be added to prevent the cooler from blowing completely off. \n\nA traditionally-shaped blanket of loosely crocheted cotton, called an \"anti-sweat sheet\", is used to absorb moisture. Often used alone to wick moisture from the surface of the horse, if placed under a cooler, it is removed when it becomes wet.\n\nA \"barrier blanket\" is sometimes used in Australian Thoroughbred racing. This blanket weighs about 40 kilograms and is placed over the horse prior to entering the starting stalls. It is then tied to the back of the stalls after the horse has been loaded and remains in the barrier as the horse jumps. Quite a few horses respond positively to it and are more easily loaded and are calmer in the stalls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893515", "title": "Submarine aircraft carrier", "text": "Submarine aircraft carrier\n\nA submarine aircraft carrier is a submarine equipped with aircraft for observation or attack missions. These submarines saw their most extensive use during World War II, although their operational significance remained rather small. The most famous of them were the Japanese s and the , although small numbers of similar craft were built for other nations' navies as well.\n\nMost operational submarine aircraft carriers, with the exception of the \"I-400\" and AM classes, used their aircraft for reconnaissance and observation. This is in contrast to the typical surface aircraft carrier, whose main function is serving as a base for offensive aircraft.\n\nGermany was the first nation to experiment with submarine aircraft carriers, initiated by the Imperial German Naval Air Service commander Oberleutnant zur See Friedrich von Arnauld de la Perière who commanded a unit of two Friedrichshafen FF.29 reconnaissance seaplanes in Zeebrugge. One of the first U-Boats to arrive at the Zeebrugge base was Kapitänleutnant Walther Forstmann's , which was to play the role of a submarine aircraft carrier.\n\nThe unarmed FF-29 seaplanes were modified to carry bombs. On 25 December 1915, one of the newly modified aircraft flew across the English Channel and up the River Thames, dropping bombs on the outskirts of London, although they caused only minor damage. It was pursued by British fighters but returned to base safely. On this first bombing mission it was apparent that the aircraft suffered more from a lack of range.\n\nEncouraged by this success, Arnauld and Forstmann theorized that they could increase the range by carrying the aircraft off the British coast on the deck of submarine in a takeoff position, then launching an aircraft by partially submerging, allowing the seaplane to float off. On 6 January 1915, \"U-12\" made a launch of an FF-29 off its deck in Zeebrugge within the safety of the breakwater Zeebrugge Mole. The aircraft was then lashed athwartships again and the submarine left the harbor, seemingly dwarfed by the wingspan of the biplane, which stretched almost ⅓ of the length of the small coastal patrol submarine. \"U-12\" carried the FF-29 for 30 miles before flooding the forward tanks and letting the seaplane float off the deck without much difficulty, after which the plane took off. Arnauld originally intended to rendezvous with the sub, but decided against it. After gaining altitude, Arnauld left for the British coast which he apparently flew along undetected before returning to Zeebrugge. \nAlthough the aircraft had been carried out to sea and had safely floated off the submarine's deck it was obvious improvements were needed in the procedure and setup.\n\nArnauld and Forstmann proposed further experiments to the German Naval Command, but were vetoed as their project was considered impractical. The plans were reinvestigated in 1917 in the hope that they would increase the striking power of new German subs such as the long-range cruiser-type \"Unterseeboote\", which were to be equipped with small scouting seaplanes that could be assembled and dismantled onboard and stored in special compartments on deck - but the idea was abandoned as the war came to an end.\n\nTwo of the aircraft designs created for that purpose were the biplane Hansa Brandenburg W.20 and low-wing monoplane Luftfahrzeug Gesellschaft L.F.G. Stralsund V.19. The first type was designed in 1917 for use aboard the Cruiser submarines that never went into service.\n\nThe British also experimented with the aircraft-carrying submarine concept when was fitted out in a manner similar to the German U-Boat but for the purpose of intercepting German airships as they crossed the North Sea. It was capable of launching two Sopwith Schneider floatplanes in 1916. However, just as in the German experiment, the aircraft were carried unprotected on the deck and the submarine was unable to submerge without losing them.\n\n\"Surcouf\" was a French submarine ordered in December 1927, launched 18 October 1929, and commissioned May 1934. At 4,000 tons (3,600 tonnes) displacement submerged, \"Surcouf\" was the largest submarine in the world at the start of World War II. Her short wartime career is laced with controversy and conspiracy theories.\n\n\"Surcouf\" was designed as an \"underwater cruiser\", intended to seek and engage in surface combat. For the first part of that mission, it carried an observation float plane in a hangar built into the after part of the conning tower; for the second part, it was armed with not only 12 torpedo tubes but also a twin gun turret forward of the conning tower. The guns were fed from a magazine holding 60 rounds and controlled by a director with a rangefinder, mounted high enough to view a horizon. In theory, the observation plane could direct fire out to the guns' maximum range. Anti-aircraft cannons and machine guns were mounted on the top of the hangar.\n\nThe \"Regia Marina\" (Italian Navy) ordered , a submarine with a waterproof hangar for a small reconnaissance seaplane in the late-1920s. In 1928 Macchi and Piaggio each received orders for suitable aircraft which resulted in the Macchi M.53 and the Piaggio P.8, but the program was cancelled, and the submarine's hangar was removed in December 1931, before \"Ettore Fieramosca\" was delivered.\n\nThe Japanese applied the concept of the \"submarine aircraft carrier\" extensively, starting with the J2 class \"I-6\" and the of 1937–38. Altogether 42 submarines were built with the capability to carry floatplanes, one such vessel being .\n\nAfter the loss of the heavy gun-carrying and the Washington Naval Treaty which restricted the armament of vessels which were not capital ships, the remaining M-class submarines were converted to other uses. By 1927, had entered service with a waterproof hangar for a Parnall Peto seaplane with folding wings, which could be launched and recovered with the aid of a derrick. In October 1928, she was fitted with a hydraulic catapult which allowed the seaplane to be launched from a ramp on the forward casing. The submarine and her plane could then provide reconnaissance ahead of the fleet, submerging when threatened. HMS \"M2\" herself was lost in 1932, and plane-launching submarines were abandoned by the Royal Navy.\n\nThe United States began studying the concept in 1922 when two Caspar U.1 seaplanes were purchased from Germany for evaluation at Anacostia Naval Station. One aircraft was later lost during an exhibition flight in 1923, but they provided useful technical information.\n\nThe United States Navy ordered six Cox-Klemin XS-1s and six Martin MS-1s, both small seaplanes that like the Caspar U-1 could be disassembled easily. Both were tested aboard \"S-1\" during October and November 1923. Later, Cox-Klemm built the improved XS-2 model, and Loening built the XSL, but the Navy had lost interest in the concept by then. \nProblems with launching and recovering the aircraft, and the limited military value caused interest in the concept to wane, and \nnews that the British submarine \"M2\" had sunk during trials in 1933, and damage to the XSL during testings on the sheltered waters of the Anacostia River ended further U.S. Navy development.\n\nThe \"Kriegsmarine\" (German navy) also started development of submarines capable of launching aircraft and ordered four very large \"cruiser\" U-boats in early 1939. These boats were to be twice as large as any existing U-boat and were to have had a crew of 110 while carrying a single Arado Ar 231 floatplane, but were canceled at the outbreak of war later that year.\n\nAlthough not strictly an aircraft, some U-boats carried the Focke-Achgelis Fa 330 (English: Wagtail). It was a type of rotary-wing kite, known as a gyroglider or rotor kite. They were towed behind German U-boats during World War II.\n\nAnother German long range U-boat was the Type IX D2 \"\"Monsun\"\", used in the Indian Ocean and Far East Area based in Penang (Occupied Malaya). To aid such submarines the observation \"Autogyro-Kite\" Focke-Achgelis Fa 330 \"\"Bachstelze\"\" (Wagtail) was developed. This was used in the Indian Ocean and sporadically in the Southern Atlantic but its use hindered the submarine's ability to submerge quickly.\n\nThe Flettner Fl 282A \"\"Kolibri\"\" reconnaissance-helicopter was also planned to be used from long range submarines.\nThis single seat helicopter was manufactured of welded steel tubing and was sized so that it could be stowed with rotor blades and landing gear removed in a diameter by long pressured hangar on the U-boat's deck. The Fl 282 \"\"Kolibri\"\" was never deployed on a German submarine.\n\nThe Japanese applied the concept of the submarine aircraft carrier extensively. Altogether 47 submarines were built with the capability to carry seaplanes. Most IJN submarine aircraft carriers could carry only one aircraft, though a few types could carry two, and the giant I-400 class submarines could carry three.\n\nThe Type B1 (\"I-15\" Series) submarines (\"I-15\", \"I-17\", \"I-19\", \"I-21\", \"I-23\", \"I-25\", \"I-26\", \"I-27\", \"I-28\", \"I-29\", \"I-30\", \"I-31\", \"I-32\", \"I-33\", I-34, \"I-35\", \"I-36\", \"I-37\", \"I-38\", \"I-39\") were the most numerous type of submarines of the Imperial Japanese Navy during World War II. In total, 20 were made, starting with number \"I-15\", which became the name of the series. These submarines were fast, had a very long range, and carried a single Yokosuka E14Y seaplane, located in a hangar in front of the conning tower, which was launched by a catapult.\n\nThe series was rather successful, especially at the beginning of the war. In 1942, \"I-26\" crippled the aircraft carrier . \"I-19\", on 15 September 1942, fired six torpedoes at the carrier , two of which hit the carrier and crippled it, with the remaining torpedoes damaging the battleship and the destroyer which sank later. \"I-25\" conducted the only aerial bombings ever on the continental United States in September 1942, when an aircraft launched from it dropped two incendiary bombs on a forest near the town of Brookings, Oregon.\n\nThe AM (A Modified) type submarine was a large seaplane-carrying submarine, with a hangar space for two aircraft. These giant submarines were originally of the A2 type, but their design was revised after construction started so that they could carry a second aircraft. The seaplanes were to be the Aichi M6A1 bomber carrying bombs.\n\nThe range and speed of these submarines was remarkable ( at ), but their underwater performance was compromised, making them easy targets. \"I-13\" was sunk on 16 July 1945 by the destroyer escort and aircraft action from the escort carrier about east of Yokosuka. \"I-14\" surrendered at sea at the end of the war, and was later scrapped.\n\nThe \"I-400\"-class submarine displaced 6,500 tons (5,900 tonnes) and was over long, three times the size of ordinary submarines. It had a figure-eight hull shape for additional strength to handle the on-deck hangar for housing the three Aichi M6A \"Seiran\" aircraft. In addition, it had three anti-aircraft guns and a large deck gun as well as eight torpedo tubes from which they could fire the Long Lance - the largest, longest ranged and most deadly torpedo in use at the time.\n\nThree of the \"Sen Toku\" were built, \"I-400\", , and \"I-402\". Each had four engines and enough fuel to go around the world 1½ times, more than enough to reach the United States from either direction.\n\nThe submarines were also able to carry three \"Sei ran\" aircraft (the Aichi M6A), each carrying a bomb at . Its name was combination of \"sei\" (\"clear sky\") and \"ran\" (\"storm\"), literally \"storm out of a clear sky,\" because the Americans would not know they were coming. It had a wing span of and a length of . To fit the aircraft into the hangar, the wings of the aircraft were folded back, the horizontal stabilizers folded down, and the top of the vertical stabilizer folded over so the overall profile of the aircraft was within the diameter of its propeller. A crew of four could prepare and get all three airborne in 45 minutes, launching them with a catapult on the fore deck of the giant submarine.\n\nThe US Navy produced sketch designs of rather fanciful submarine aircraft carriers in 1946 and 1952. The 1946 study had a projected hull classification symbol of SSV, and was initially envisioned to carry two XA2J Super Savage bombers for strategic nuclear strike, or four F2H Banshee fighters. Various watertight hangar and takeoff-landing ramp configurations produced potential lengths ranging from to , the latter with double the aircraft for a surfaced displacement of 34,000 tons (the Russian Navy's Typhoon-class submarine, the largest ever built, is a mere 24,000 tons surfaced). The 1952 study was slightly more realistic, carrying three F2Y Sea Dart seaplane fighters, with a topside launching ramp for rough seas (the Sea Dart could only take off on a calm sea). This would still be a large submarine, projected at long and 9,000 tons submerged, with a nuclear power plant to achieve . A more economical plan was also conceived to convert World War II fleet submarines to carry a seaplane version of the A4D Skyhawk in a similar manner to the Regulus missile-equipped SSGs, using hydro-skis for takeoff as the Sea Dart did.\n\nNo submarine aircraft carriers remain in use, but the concept reappears periodically. The ability to make a stealth attack has an allure, but sustained air operations largely negate the advantage of being submersible, and the size limitations preclude sizable sustained aerial operations. Furthermore, any submarine large enough to be useful would be vulnerable to detection and counterattack. Combined with the cost for such a specialized vessel, it is unlikely that any navy would consider their construction worthwhile. In addition, submarine launchable cruise missiles increasingly incorporate limited surveillance capabilities, allowing them to serve as both strike weapons and disposable reconnaissance drones; this further reduces the value of operating aircraft from submarines. \n\nThere are, however, several projects to develop UAV launch and recovery capabilities. There are three methods for doing so: launching out of a torpedo tube, out of a vertical ICBM launch tube, or from a custom designed unit either in the sail or mounted on the hull. The US Navy has recognized the need for more advanced littoral combat capability, to counter growing area-denial asymmetric threats that this type of vessel could provide. The German type 212 submarines have the capability to launch UAVs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893528", "title": "Yrjö Sotamaa", "text": "Yrjö Sotamaa\n\nYrjö Kalervo Sotamaa (born 25 September 1942 in Helsinki) is a Finnish designer and design strategist. Sotamaa is Professor Emeritus of Design Innovation in the Aalto University School of Art, Design and Architecture and President Emeritus of the University of Art and Design Helsinki (TAIK). He served as the President of TAIK from 1986 until 2008. He earned his MA in Interior Architecture and Furniture Design from TAIK, where he studied with Kaj Franck and Antti Nurmesniemi.\n\nDuring his studies (1965-1969) in the Institute of Art and Design (later University of Art and Design and now Aalto University School of Arts, Design and Architecture) Yrjö Sotamaa was President of the Institute's Student Union TOKYO. He was pushing for reforms in design education, founded the Scandinavian Design Students Organization SDO in 1966 and organized by SDO a series of high-profile international seminars and conferences (Industry, Environment, Design in Suomenlinna, 1968, Finland and Working Environment in Otaniemi, 1967, Finland) to discuss the social, ecological, economical, environmental challenges facing the Nordic societies and reforms in design education. In 1967 and 1968 he invited to the seminars leading thinkers in design and architecture of the time including Victor Papanek, Buckminster Fuller, Christopher Alexander and Hans Palmstjerna. He also published their lectures and writings in the famous &/SDO Magazine 2 68 in 1968, which has been recently included to two major exhibition of the cultural radicalism in 1960's: You Say You Want a REVOLUTION? Records and Rebels 1966–1970, V&A Publishing, 2016 () and Victor Papanek: The Politics of Design, Vitra Design Museum, 2018 (). This led to a close friendship with Papanek and Fuller and later active cooperation with them.\n\nIn 1969-70 Sotamaa was a Visiting Professor at Purdue University (USA) by the invitation of Professor Victor Papanek and was a close collaborator of Papanek for several years. During his time in Purdue he also collaborated with Buckminster Fuller who's World Resources Inventory Centre was closely located to Purdue in Carbondale, Illinois.\n\nIn 1972-73 he studied with a Finnish State Grant nomadic cultures and handicrafts in East Africa.\n\nIn 1975 Sotamaa entered the service of TAIK as Head of Department of Interior Architecture and Furniture Design and was nominated by the Finnish Government to President of the University in 1986. During his time as President (1986-2008) of TAIK the University grew to one of the leading art and design institutions in the world. President Sotamaa had also a visible role in the development of the Art and Design City, the Arabianranta area of Helsinki where the University is situated, under the notion of the Living Lab. The concept was first put forward by MIT Professor William Mitchell, in terms of a research methodology for sensing, prototyping, validating and refining complex solutions in multiple and evolving real life contexts. Art and Design City become an international benchmark for innovation driven future city development.\n\nHe has also played a visible role in renewing the Finnish university system and is the \"father\" of the Helsinki Innovation University project, named Aalto University, which started operating on 1.1.2010.\n\nSotamaa has also played a key role in the creation of the Finnish and Danish national design policies, the EU User Driven Innovation Policy and the reinforcement of the position of design in the Finnish Innovation System.\n\nSotamaa has held a number of expert positions. Sotamaa was elected in 2001 to be the first President of CUMULUS, the International Association of Universities and Colleges of Art, Design and Media (2001-2007). Cumulus is today the most important global association to serve art and design education and research. It is a forum for partnership and transfer of knowledge and best practices. Cumulus consists currently of 299 members from 56 countries.\n\nHe was Chairman of the Foundation of the Finnish Institute in Japan during 1996–2009, Chairman of the Board of the Art and Design City Helsinki ADC Ltd (2000-2010), Vice-President of the Finnish Council of University Rectors (1997-2003) and Member of the Round Table of Design in Finland (2000-2010). As Chairman of the Finnish Information Society Forum and as a Member of the Information Society Forum of the European Union (1995–99), he participated in research on the evolution of the information society and in the planning of future strategies. He was the Vice-Chairman for the National Committee preparing the new Governments Art and Artist Policy Programme for Finland (Taide on mahdollisuuksia, Art is Possibilities, 2002, ).\n\nSotamaa was Executive Vice Director of the Sino-Finnish Centre at Tongji University during 2010–2013. He has served as a scientific advisor to universities in Austria, China, Denmark, England and Korea and been Visiting Professor at Nottingham Trent University, UK (2008-2012). He has been member of the Steering Group of the Danish Center for Design Research (2004-2013), the Higher Education Funding Council of England Funding Review Panel for Specialist Institutions (2015-2016), the External Review Committee of Tsinghua University, PRC (2010), the International Advisory Board of the Austrian Program for Arts-based Research PEEK (Austrian Science Foundation (2008-2012) and the Helsinki World Design Capital 2012 Delegation. Sotamaa was invited by the Danish Government to be a member of Design 2020 expert group to create a vision for Denmark as a design nation (). Sotamaa was also Chairman of the Radical Design Week Shanghai 2012 Steering Group.\n\nHe has served as Chairman of the Tapio Wirkkala Rut Bryk Foundation TWRB and the Japan-Finland Design Association JFDA (Finland). He has been member of the Boards of many culture organisations including the Asko Foundation, the Väinö Tanner Foundation, the Finnish Culture Foundation and on the Advisory Boards of the Finnish Cultural Institutes in Rome and Madrid. He is Founding Member of the Finnish-Swedish Academy of Industrial Design.\n\nChairman of Ateljé Sotamaa Ltd, Member of the International Academic Committee of Tongji University Shanghai International College of Design and Innovation, Professor (Tongji-Forever Chair) and Honorary Dean at College of Design and Innovation D&I in Tongji University, Shanghai, PRC, the Chairman of the Radical Design Week Association RDWA (www.radicaldesignweek.com) and member of the Editorial Board of 设计 She Ji. The Journal of Design, Economics, and Innovation, Published by Elsevier in cooperation with Tongji University. He is member of the Court of the Royal College of Art, London, UK.\n\nAn underlining theme of Sotamaa's activities has been related to forwarding sustainable development through innovative design and international collaboration. The culmination of this work was the Kyoto Design Declaration in 2008 emphasizing the importance of human centered design thinking. \nSotamaa has been also actively involved in university policies and produced numerous publications and articles on university autonomy, academic quality systems and internationalizing university education.\n\nThe international design production of Sotamaa includes two major international exhibitions: \"Varde\" and \"Q - Designing the Quietness\". \"Varde\" was produced by six major Nordic Design Universities with the support of the Nordic Council of Ministers. Over 300 students of the six schools were addressing the future challenges of the world and producing visions of the future through their works. The exhibition was first presented in the Royal College of Art in London and toured around the world in 1994–1996 in Rome, Berlin, Budapest, Barcelona, Sapporo, Taipei, Seoul, Linz and Helsinki. \"Q -Designing the Quietness\" was a major event of the Feel Finland program in Japan in 2003 and was first presented in the Living Design Center Ozone in Tokyo and later in 2004 in Fiskars Design Village, Finland. Books on the themes of the exhibitions were published in 1994 () and in 2003 (). The most recent major projects chaired by Sotamaa were the Radical Design Week in Shanghai 2012, the largest Finnish-Chinese joint initiative since Finland participation to world Expo 2010 (www.radicaldesignweek.com), The Sino Finnish Challenge (main event in China celebrating 100th year of Finnish Independence in 2017) and the five year Life in Future Cities Program based on Finnish-Chinese cooperation.\n\nSotamaa's major policy publications include works on university autonomy, academic quality, art and design policy. \"The Economic Autonomy of the Finnish Universities\" (Yliopistojen taloudellinen autonomia, Finnish University Rectors Council, 2002) laid foundations on the expansion of the autonomy and the reform of Finnish Universities in 2008. The other university publications include: \"Quality in Focus\" (Laatu polttopisteessä, Finnish University Rectors Council, 2002). Sotamaa was chairperson of the expert groups writing both of the publications. The latest publication edited by Sotamaa, Jokinen and Haapoja \"Out of the Box\" deals with the 2010 Finnish University Reform (Keuruu 2017, ).The policy reports include \"Art is Opportunities\" (Ministry of Education, 2002, ), which was a proposal to governments Art and Artist policy. Sotamaa was vice chairperson of the expert group writing the proposal. The second policy work resulted to \"Design 2005!, Government Decision-in-Principle on Finnish Design Policy\" (Ministry of Education, 2000, ).\n\nSotamaa is author of the Kyoto Design Declaration, which was approved by CUMULUS Association in 2008, and in which the global community of 140 Art and Design institutions committed themselves to sustainable development. He has also published \"Ateneum Maskerad, Forms and Transformations of Finnish Design\" (University of Art and Design, 2001, , chairman of the project) and Sisustusarkkitehtuurista palvelumuotoiluun - 50 vuoden murros (from Interior Architecture to Service Design - 50 Years Transition, 2019, ).\n\nSotamaa is an active writer and has been columnist for the Finnish business daily newspapers Kauppalehti Presso and Kauppalehti (2004-2009). He has been member of the Editorial Boards of Asia Design Journal (Korea) and All Design Magazine (PRC). Sotamaa's speeches and articles were published by Aalto University in the book \"Vapaus olla paras\" (Freedom to be the Best!)(edited by Olli Hakli, 2013, ).\n\nSotamaa has contributed extensively to international collaboration in art and design and has initiated the founding of several of major organizations: CUMULUS Network (1990), CUMULUS, the International Association of Universities and Colleges of Art, Design and Media (2001), The Finnish Institute in Japan (1996), The Japan-Finland Design Association JFDA (2000), The Finnish-Swedish Academy of Industrial Design (2003), The Sino-Finnish Centre at Tongji University (2010) and the Aalto-Tongji Design Factory in Shanghai (2010).\n\nSotamaa has been awarded over 30 awards and recognitions including Honorary Doctorates by the Aalto University School of Arts, Design and Architecture (2013) and by the Estonian Academy of Arts (2004) and the honorary title of President Emeritus by Cumulus Association in 2014. He is Honorary Chairman of the Finnish Institute in Japan and Honorary Fellow of the Royal College of Art in the UK, the Aalto University School of Art and Design, the Finnish Association of Designers (ORNAMO) and Graafiset muotoilijat (GM). He is a Member of the Comité d´honneur of Ecole Supérieure d´Arts Graphiques et d´Architecture Interieure-Design ESAG-Penninghen, France.\n\nSotamaa has been awarded the Gold Estlander Medal by Design Forum Finland in 2017, the Finnish Design Lifetime Achievement Award in 2013, the Person of the Year by Shanghai City of Design in 2013, the Magnolia Award of Shanghai City in 2011, Medal of the Helsinki University of Technology in 2011, the Lifetime Achievement Award by CUMULUS Association in 2010, the Prix Met de Penninghen, Ecole Superiéure d´Arts Graphiques et d´Architecture Interieure-Design Esag-Penninghen in 2007, the State Service Award in 2006, the Sign of Honor of the Latvian Academy of Arts in 2006, the Albert Gebhard Medal of the Graphic Designers Association, Finland in 2003, the Elias Lönnrot Medal of the Finnish Culture Foundation in 2002, the MTV3 Finland Culture Prize in 1999. In 2002 he was a Nominee for the World Technology Award in Design. Sotamaa was awarded the Most Beautiful Book of the Year 2000 Prize and he is listed in the \"Who is Who in the World\" and \"International Who is Who of Professionals\".\n\nSotamaa has been decorated with the Chinese Government Friendship Award 2014 (the highest recognition to foreign experts in China); Order of the Rising Sun, Gold Rays with Neck Ribbon, Japan; the Golden Medal of the City of Helsinki, Finland; Commander, Order of the Lion of Finland; Commandeur in de Orde van Oranje-Nassau, Netherlands; Knight, First Class of the Order of the White Rose of Finland.\n"}
{"id": "1893533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893533", "title": "+15", "text": "+15\n\nThe Plus 15 or +15 Skyway network in Calgary, Alberta, Canada, is one of the world's most extensive pedestrian skywalk systems, with a total length of 18 kilometres (11 miles) and 62 bridges. The system is so named because the skywalks are approximately 15 feet (approximately 4.5 metres) above street level. (Some Plus 15 skywalks are multi-level, with higher levels being referred to as +30s and +45s.)\n\nThe system was conceived and designed by architect Harold Hanen, who worked for the Calgary Planning Department from 1966 to 1969. This development earned him the 1970 Vincent Massey Award for Merit in Urban Planning.\n\nOpening in 1970, the +15 network has expanded to include 59 enclosed bridges connecting dozens of downtown Calgary buildings. The central core of the system is a series of enclosed shopping centres, and the city's flagship department stores.\n\nNew developments were required to connect to the walkway system; in exchange for this, they were offered more floorspace (the \"bonus density\"). When not physically able to connect to nearby buildings, developers contribute to the \"Plus 15 Fund\", managed by the city, used to finance other missing connections.\n\nThe system has been identified with a decline in street life in the Downtown Commercial Core. Street life is instead concentrated on streets (such as Stephen Avenue) or in neighbourhoods where there are no bridges (such as Eau Claire and the Beltline).\n\nIn 1998, the city began to re-evaluate the system. Part of the goal of these studies was reinvigorating decreased daytime street life on some downtown streets. The possibility of limiting expansion to encourage more pedestrian street traffic was raised. The system's bridges are integral to the buildings they serve. City planning by-laws now confer tax credits to owners who connect new buildings to the system. Businesses and the general public make extensive use of the system's enhanced flow of human traffic.\n\nThe Plus 15 is one of the central plot elements in the 2000 film \"Waydowntown\", directed by Gary Burns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893535", "title": "June Fletcher", "text": "June Fletcher\n\nJune Fletcher is an American business and financial writer for \"The Naples Daily News\". Her beat focuses on business, finance and real estate.\n\nShe formerly was a business and real estate reporter for \"The Wall Street Journal\".\n\nFletcher was named Miss Bikini USA before entering Princeton University in 1969, the first year of coeducation. She received a bachelor's degree magna cum laude in English from Princeton. She also holds a master's degree from Oxford University in English.\n\nFletcher was the \"House Talk\" columnist for WSJ.com from 2005 to 2008. Before becoming a columnist for \"The Wall Street Journal\" (WSJ), she was a staff reporter for 13 years. She is a regular contributor to the WSJ's \"Weekend Journal\", and is the columnist for House Talk. She is also a contributing writer for The Daily Beast, Yahoo!, and \"Financial Planning magazine\". Before working for the WSJ, she was a senior editor at \"Builder\" magazine. She was Home Front reporter for \"The Wall Street Journal\" from 1995 to 2008.\n\nFletcher is the author of a consumer book on buying and selling real estate titled \"House Poor\", published by Collins.\n"}
{"id": "1893537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893537", "title": "Yaw drive", "text": "Yaw drive\n\nThe yaw drive is an important component of the horizontal axis wind turbines' yaw system. To ensure the wind turbine is producing the maximal amount of electric energy at all times, the yaw drive is used to keep the rotor facing into the wind as the wind direction changes. This only applies for wind turbines with a horizontal axis rotor. The wind turbine is said to have a yaw error if the rotor is not aligned to the wind. A yaw error implies that a lower share of the energy in the wind will be running through the rotor area. (The generated energy will be proportional the cosine of the yaw error).\n\nWhen the windmills of the 18th century included the feature of rotor orientation via the rotation of the nacelle, an actuation mechanism able to provide that turning moment was necessary. Initially the windmills used ropes or chains extending from the nacelle to the ground in order to allow the rotation of the nacelle by means of human or animal power.\n\nAnother historical innovation was the fantail. This device was actually an auxiliary rotor equipped with plurality of blades and located downwind of the main rotor, behind the nacelle in a 90° (approximately) orientation to the main rotor sweep plane. In the event of change in wind direction the fantail would rotate thus transmitting its mechanical power through a gearbox (and via a gear-rim-to-pinion mesh) to the tower of the windmill. The effect of the aforementioned transmission was the rotation of the nacelle towards the direction of the wind, where the fantail would not face the wind thus stop turning (i.e. the nacelle would stop to its new position).\n\nThe modern yaw drives, even though electronically controlled and equipped with large electric motors and planetary gearboxes have great similarities to the old windmill concept. They still use a means of mechanical energy “production” (i.e. electric motor), a method to increase the torque (i.e. gearbox) and a gear-rim mounted on the fixed portion of the wind turbine and in constant mesh with the output gear of the said gearbox.\n\nThe main categories of yaw drives are: \n\nThe gearbox of the yaw drive is a very crucial component since it is required to handle very large moments while requiring the minimal amount of maintenance and perform reliably for the whole life-span of the wind turbine (approx. 20 years). Most of the yaw drive gearboxes have input to output ratios in the range of 2000:1 in order to produce the enormous turning moments required for the rotation of the wind turbine nacelle.\n\nThe gear-rim and the pinions of the yaw drives are the components that finally transmit the turning moment from the yaw drives to the tower in order to turn the nacelle of the wind turbine around the tower axis (z axis). The main characteristics of the gear-rim are its big diameter (often larger than 2 m) and the orientation of its teeth.\n\nThe gear-rims with teeth on the outer surface have the advantage of higher reduction ratios in combination with the pinions as well as reduced machining costs over the gear-rims with inner teeth. On the other hand, the former configuration requires the yaw drives to be mounted far apart from each other thus increasing the wind turbine main frame dimensions and costs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893538", "title": "A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall", "text": "A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall\n\n\"A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall\" is a song written by Bob Dylan in the summer of 1962 and recorded later that year for his second album, \"The Freewheelin' Bob Dylan\". Its lyrical structure is modeled after the question and answer form of traditional ballads such as \"Lord Randall\".\n\nThe song is characterized by symbolist imagery in the style of Arthur Rimbaud, communicating suffering, pollution, and warfare. Dylan has said that all of the lyrics were taken from the initial lines of songs that \"he thought he would never have time to write.\" Nat Hentoff quoted Dylan as saying that he immediately wrote the song in response to the Cuban Missile Crisis, although in his memoir, \",\" Dylan attributed his inspiration to the feeling he got when reading microfiche newspapers in the New York Public Library: \"After a while you become aware of nothing but a culture of feeling, of black days, of schism, evil for evil, the common destiny of the human being getting thrown off course. It’s all one long funeral song.\"\n\nDylan originally wrote \"A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall\" in the form of a poem. The first iteration of the lyrics were written on a typewriter in the shared apartment of Dylan's friends Wavy Gravy and singer Tom Paxton, within Greenwich Village, New York City. Significant edits occurred after this time, for instance, an earlier draft which appeared in both \"Sing Out\" and \"Broadside\" folk magazines contained \"a highway of golden with nobody on it\" rather than the final lyric \"a highway of diamonds\".\n\nOn September 22, 1962, Dylan appeared for the first time at Carnegie Hall as part of an all-star hootenanny. His three-song set marked the first public performance of \"A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall,\" a complex and powerful song built upon the question-and-answer refrain pattern of the traditional British ballad \"Lord Randall\", published by Francis Child.\n\nOne month later, on October 22, U.S. President John F. Kennedy appeared on national television to announce the discovery of Soviet missiles on the island of Cuba, initiating the Cuban Missile Crisis. In the sleeve notes on the \"Freewheelin\"' album, Nat Hentoff would quote Dylan as saying that he wrote \"A Hard Rain\" in response to the Cuban Missile Crisis: \"Every line in it is actually the start of a whole new song. But when I wrote it, I thought I wouldn't have enough time alive to write all those songs so I put all I could into this one.\" In actuality, Dylan had written the song more than a month before the crisis broke.\n\nThe song was recorded in a single take at Columbia Records' Studio A on December 6, 1962.\n\nFolk singer Pete Seeger interpreted the line \"When the home in the valley meets the damp dirty prison\" as referring to when a young person suddenly wants to leave his home, but then qualified that by saying, \"People are wrong when they say 'I know what he means.'\"\n\nWhile some have suggested that the refrain of the song refers to nuclear fallout, Dylan disputed that this was a specific reference. In a radio interview with Studs Terkel in 1963, Dylan said: No, it's not atomic rain, it's just a hard rain. It isn't the fallout rain. I mean some sort of end that's just gotta happen ... In the last verse, when I say, \"the pellets of poison are flooding the waters,\" that means all the lies that people get told on their radios and in their newspapers.In \"No Direction Home\", Martin Scorsese's documentary on Dylan, the Beat poet Allen Ginsberg talked about the first time he heard Dylan's music: When I got back from India, and got to the West Coast, there's a poet, Charlie Plymell - at a party in Bolinas — played me a record of this new young folk singer. And I heard \"Hard Rain,\" I think. And wept. 'Cause it seemed that the torch had been passed to another generation. From earlier bohemian, or Beat illumination. And self-empowerment.\n\nAuthor Ian MacDonald described the song as one of the most idiosyncratic protest songs ever written.\n\nAlthough Dylan may have first played the song to friends, \"A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall\" was formally premiered at Carnegie Hall on September 22, 1962, as part of a hootenanny organized by Pete Seeger. Seeger recalled: \"I had to announce to all the singers, 'Folks, you're gonna be limited to three songs. No more. 'Cause we each have ten minutes apiece.' And Bob raised his hand and said, 'What am I supposed to do? One of my songs is ten minutes long.'\"\n\nDylan featured the song regularly in concerts in the years since he premiered it, and there have been several dramatic performances. An October 1963 performance at Carnegie Hall was released on \"\", while another New York City performance, recorded one year later, appeared on \"\". Dylan performed the song in August 1971 at The Concert for Bangladesh, organized by George Harrison and Ravi Shankar. The concert was organized for East Pakistan refugee relief (now independent Bangladesh) after the 1970 Bhola cyclone and during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War. On December 4, 1975, at the Forum de Montreal, Canada, Dylan recorded an upbeat version of the song, which appeared on \"\". That rendition also appears on the box set \"\", along with a November 21, 1975 performance and a still earlier rehearsal. On May 23, 1994, Dylan performed the song at \"The Great Music Experience\" festival in Japan, backed by a 90-piece symphony orchestra conducted by Michael Kamen. At the end of 2007, Dylan recorded a new version of \"A Hard Rain's a-Gonna Fall\" exclusively for Expo Zaragoza 2008 world fair, scheduled to open on June 8, 2008, to highlight the Expo theme of \"water and sustainable development\". As well as choosing local-band Amaral to record a version of the song in Spanish, Dylan's new version ended with a few spoken words about his \"being proud to be a part of the mission to make water safe and clean for every human being living in this world.\"\n\nPatti Smith performed the song with orchestral accompaniment at the Nobel Prize Award Ceremony on December 10, 2016, to commemorate Dylan receiving the Nobel Prize in Literature.\n\n\nPhotographer Mark Edwards took a series of photographs illustrating the lyrics of the song which were exhibited in many locations such as the United Nations headquarters. These were published in a book in 2006.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893559", "title": "Mike Lazzo", "text": "Mike Lazzo\n\nMichael Lazzo (born April 10, 1958) is an American television producer and the former senior executive vice president in charge of the Adult Swim programming block of Cartoon Network, and its production arm, Williams Street.\n\nLazzo was born in LaGrange, Georgia. In his childhood, his family would often relocate, making it difficult for him to make friends. Instead, he grew heavily invested in television, cartoons (mainly Astro Boy and Speed Racer), and comic books. He dropped out of high school at 15 and for a time worked at a movie theater. In 1984, he began working in the shipping and receiving department of Turner Broadcasting System. He gradually worked his way through the programming department of Turner in the intervening years. He went to program TBS's animation block, running daily from 4:30–6PM Eastern time until 1993, when he became the first programmer in Cartoon Network's history. By 1994, he was the vice president of programming for Cartoon Network.\n\nIn 1994, Lazzo helped create the first animated late-night talk show, \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\", for the Cartoon Network. His production company, Ghost Planet Industries, created the spin-off of Hanna-Barbera's \"Space Ghost\" in 1995; \"Cartoon Planet\" debuted on TBS but moved to Cartoon Network the following year. Lazzo helped create Powerpuff Girls, before moving to Cartoon Network's adult-oriented network Adult Swim.\n\nIn 1997, Lazzo and GPI began production on Toonami, an afternoon block of action cartoons on Cartoon Network. In 1999, Lazzo himself appeared in a rehearsal of the \"Space Ghost Coast to Coast\" episode \"Fire Ant\" in an episode \"Table Read\". In 2004, he served as the producer for Miguzi, another afternoon block of action programming, this time aimed at a younger audience.\n\nIn 1999, Ghost Planet Industries changed its name to Williams Street, and the following year the studio started developing more non-Space Ghost-related comedy cartoons aimed at adult audiences. \"The Brak Show\", \"Sealab 2021\", \"Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law\", and \"Aqua Teen Hunger Force\" all premiered on Cartoon Network unannounced in the early mornings of December 2000, almost a year before Adult Swim officially premiered in September 2001. Keith Crofford has served as Lazzo's co-executive producer since 1994.\n\nSince 2006, Lazzo appeared in Seth Green's \"Robot Chicken\" four times, in which he voiced a parody of himself.\n\nIn December 2019, Lazzo retired from the company.\n\nLazzo has stated that his all-time favorite cartoon short is \"Nasty Quacks\", which he has seen hundreds of times, and his favorite TV show is \"The Simpsons\".\n"}
{"id": "1893564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893564", "title": "Viguen", "text": "Viguen\n\nVigen or Viguen (born Vigen Derderian, , \"Vigen Derderyân\"; , \"Vigen Tērtērian\"; 23 November 1929 – 26 October 2003), known as \"King of Iranian pop\" and the \"Sultan of Jazz\", was an Iranian pop music singer and actor, well known throughout the Near East. Vigen sang both in Persian and Armenian.\n\nVigen was of Iranian-Armenian ethnicity and during the golden age of Persian pop (early 1970s) until the 1979 Islamic Revolution, many Iranian performers and celebrities—among them Delkash, Pouran, and Elaheh—yearned to be associated with him.\n\nVigen's innovative and upbeat style of music had a great influence on paving the way for a new genre of Iranian music, influenced by Western European and Latin American styles. His musical and performing talents soon captured the attention of many prominent Iranian lyricists and composers such as Parveez Vakili and Kareem Fakkour, and together they created some of Iran's most memorable songs.\n\nViguen was born into an Iranian-Armenian family of eight children in the western Iranian city of Hamadan. His father died of complications related to pneumonia when Viguen was only eight years old. He was raised by his mother and his older brother Zaven after moving away from the family property because of a family disagreement. Karo Derderian, Viguen's older brother was a well known Iranian poet and wrote the lyrics for Viguen's signature song, \"Lala'ee\" (Lullaby). \n\nDuring World War II, the family moved to the northern city of Tabriz where local Azerbaijani nationalists declared the area a separatist republic, with the help of the occupying Soviet forces. This is where Viguen bought his first guitar from a Russian soldier and discovered his affinity for American, Italian and Spanish music and adopted many of those melodies for his songs with Persian lyrics that became some of Iran's most popular music to date.\n\nIn his mid teens, Viguen moved to Tehran and in 1951 he was hired to perform at the Café Shemiran, an upscale restaurant & bar on the northern outskirts of the capital city. \n\nEquated to Elvis Presley by some fans in Iran, Viguen's debonair looks and his tall and athletic physique added to his appeal as Iran's first male pop star – particularly among young Iranian women at a time when ideas of emancipation and liberalism were taking hold in the 1950s and 60s. He was also one of the first Iranian entertainers to perform with a guitar.\n\nViguen moved to the United States in 1971 and settled in California. He would return to Iran yearly to do concerts and perform in Vegas-styled nightclubs. After the Islamic Revolution of 1979, he was exiled to the United States because pop music was no longer allowed in Iran. He celebrated the 50th anniversary of his career at the Hollywood Palladium in Los Angeles in February 2001.\n\nSome of his most notable songs are \"Baroon Barooneh\" (It's Raining), \"Asb-e Ablagh\" (Thoroughbred Horse), \"Mahtab\" (Moonlight), Lala'ee (Lullaby), \"Gol-e Sorkh\" (Red Rose), \"Ragheeb\" (Rival), \"Simin-bari\", \"Awazekhan\" (The Singer) and \"Del-e Divaneh\" (Crazy Heart). More than 600 songs were recorded during his long career.\n\nVigen's cinematic debut came in 1955 when he was discovered by the prominent Armenian-Iranian director Samuel Khachikian for a role in his film \"Chaharrahe Havades\" (Crossroads of Incidents). In later years, he played roles in many other motion pictures by Khachikian and other producers, among them \"Zalembala\" (1956, Siamak Yasami), \"Tappeheh Eshgh\" (1959, Khachikian), \"Arshin Malalan\" and \"Cheshmeh Oshagh\" (1960, Samad Sabahi),\"Atash Khakestar\" (1961, Khosro Parizi), \"Arooseh Darya\" (1965, Arman). He later on founded \"Vigen film\" to produce his own movies but did not pursue the enterprise.'\n\nHis first wife was named Olga and they had three daughters together, including actress Aylin Vigen (also known as Eileen Vigen or Ailen Vigen), Aylin's fraternal twin sister, singer Jaklin Munns (also known as Jaklin Vigen, Jacqueline Vigen), Katrin Vigen. His second wife was named Nadia and they had one daughter named, Evelyn Vigen, and one son named Edwin Derderian. His third wife was Karen Holston Derderian (1951–2015) and he had a step-daughter, Robin Navonne Brakefield.\n\nVigen died at home on 26 October 2003 from cancer and was buried at Pierce Brothers Valley Oaks Cemetery in Westlake Village, California. At the time of his death he had recorded more than six hundred songs, starred in six motion pictures and made guest appearances on various popular TV shows including \"The Bob Hope Show\", \"The Jack Benny Show\" and the TV series \"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893579", "title": "NABTS", "text": "NABTS\n\nNABTS, the \"North American Broadcast Teletext Specification\", is a protocol used for encoding NAPLPS-encoded teletext pages, as well as other types of digital data, within the vertical blanking interval (VBI) of an analog video signal. It is standardized under standard EIA-516, and has a rate of 15.6 kbit/s per line of video (with error correction).\n\nNABTS was originally developed as a protocol by the Canadian Department of Communications, with their industry partner Norpak, for the Telidon system. Similar systems had been developed by the BBC in Europe for their Ceefax system, and were later standardized as the World System Teletext (WST, aka CCIR Teletext System B), but differences in European and North American television standards and the greater flexibility of the Telidon standard led to the creation of a new delivery mechanism that was tuned for speed.\n\nNABTS was the standard used for both CBS's ExtraVision and NBC's very short-lived NBC Teletext services in the mid-1980s. Due to teletext in general not really catching on in North America, NABTS saw a new use for the datacasting features of WebTV for Windows, under Windows 98, as well as for the now-defunct Intercast system. NABTS is still used for private closed-circuit data delivery over a television broadcast or video signal, and Canadian company Norpak still sells and manufactures encoders and decoders for NABTS.\n\nIn a normal NTSC video signal there are 525 \"lines\" of video signal. These are split into two half-images, known as \"fields\", sent every 60th of a second. These images merge on-screen, and in-eye, to form a single frame of video updated every 30th of a second. Each line of each field takes 63.5 μs to send; 50.3 μs of video and 13.2 μs amount of \"dead time\" on each end used to signal the television that the line is complete, known as the horizontal blanking interval (HBI). When the scanning process reaches the end of the screen it returns to the top during the vertical blanking interval (VBI), which, like the HBI requires some \"dead time\" to properly frame the signal on the screen. In this case the dead time is represented by unused lines of the picture signal, normally the top 22 lines of the frame.\n\nNABTS encodes data into the video signal as a series of dots at a fixed rate of 5.7272 Mbit/s. Each line of a field has 50.3 μs of video area that can be used for transmission, which results in 288 bits per line, or 36 bytes. In NABTS, three bytes are used for hardware synchronization, another three for the packet address, two for sequencing information, leaving 28 for data and redundant forward error correction (FEC) information.\n\nIn theory, the NABTS codes can be used on any of the 262 lines of the display, allowing up to 262 x 28 = 7,336 bytes of data per frame. Typically, however, the data is instead placed only in the unused lines of the vertical framing area. Lines 1-9 are used for vertical synchronization, line 21 is used for Closed Captioning, and everything after 22 is the television picture. That leaves 10 lines, lines 10 to 20, that are useful for sending data. At 60 fields per second, those 10 lines at 288 bits each encode a total of 172,800 bit/s, although 20% of that is needed for signaling purposes, so rates of 115,200 for end-user data are more typical. Applications requiring less throughput can simply use fewer lines.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893589", "title": "List of Romantic-era composers", "text": "List of Romantic-era composers\n\nThis is a list of Romantic-era composers. Note that this list is purely chronological, and also includes a substantial number of composers, especially those born after 1860, whose works cannot be conveniently classified as \"Romantic\".\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "1893597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893597", "title": "Culture of Bangladesh", "text": "Culture of Bangladesh\n\nThe Culture of Bangladesh is intertwined with the culture of the Bengal region. It has evolved over the centuries encompasses the cultural diversity of several social groups of Bangladesh. The Bengal Renaissance of the 18th early 19th centuries, noted Bengali writers, saints, authors, scientists, researchers, thinkers, music composers, painters, film-makers have played a significant role in the development of Bengali culture. The Bengal Renaissance contained the seeds of a nascent political Indian nationalism was the precursor in many ways to modern Indian artistic cultural expression. \n\nAccording to M. Nazrul Islam Tamij, a human rights activist and chairman of National Human Right Society (NHRS),human rights are the most important part of Bengali culture and it play an important role in the development of Bengali culture. \n\nThe cultures of Bangladesh are composite over the centuries have assimilated influences of Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, Christianity. It is manifested in various forms, including music, dance, drama; art craft; folklore folktale; languages literature; philosophy religion; festivals celebrations; as well as in a distinct cuisine culinary tradition.\n\nThe music dance styles of Bangladesh may be divided into three categories: classical, folk, modern.\n\nBangladesh was once part of Pakistan, it was called East Pakistan.\n\nThe classical style has been influenced by other prevalent classical forms of music dances of the Indian subcontinent, accordingly, show some influenced dance forms like Bharatnatyam Kathak.\n\nSeveral dancing styles in vogue in the northeastern part of the Indian subcontinent, like Manipuri Santhali dances, are practiced, but Bangladesh has developed its own distinct dancing styles. Bangladesh has a rich tradition of folk songs, with lyrics rooted in vibrant tradition spirituality, mysticism, devotion. Such folk songs revolve around other themes, including love. The most prevalent folk songs music traditions include Bhatiali, Baul, Marfati, Murshidi, Bhawaiya. Lyricists like Lalon Shah, Hason Raja, Kangal Harinath, Romesh Shill, Abbas Uddin, many unknown anonymous lyricists have enriched the tradition of folk songs of Bangladesh.\n\nIn a relatively modern context, Robindro Shongit Nazrul Giti each wrote many songs, form part of the precious cultural heritage of Bangladesh. Several musical instruments, some of them indigenous, are used in Bangladesh. Major musical instruments used are the bamboo flute (\"bashi\"), drums (\"tabla\",\"dhol\"), a single stringed instrument named \"ektara\", a four-stringed instrument called \"dotara\", a pair of metal bowls, used for rhythm effects, called \"mandira\". Currently, musical instruments of western origin, like guitars, drums, and the saxophone are used, sometimes along with traditional instruments (Muajj). Recently, Western influences have given rise to quality rock bands, particularly in urban centers like Dhaka.\n\nThe Bangladeshi press is diverse, outspoken and privately owned. Over 200 newspapers are published in the country. Bangladesh Betar is the state-run radio service. The British Broadcasting Corporation operates the popular BBC Bangla news and current affairs service. Bengali broadcasts from Voice of America are also very popular. Bangladesh Television (BTV) is the state-owned television network. There more than 20 privately owned television networks, including several news channels. Freedom of the media remains a major concern, due to government attempts at censorship and harassment of journalists.\n\nThe cinema of Bangladesh dates back to 1898 when films began screening at the Crown Theatre in Dhaka. The first bioscope in the subcontinent was established in Dhaka that year. The Dhaka Nawab Family patronized the production of several silent films in the 1920s and 30s. In 1931, the East Bengal Cinematograph Society released the first full-length feature film in Bangladesh, titled the \"Last Kiss\". The first feature film in East Pakistan, \"Mukh O Mukhosh\", was released in 1956. During the 1960s, 25–30 films were produced annually in Dhaka. By the 2000s, Bangladesh produced 80–100 films a year. While the Bangladeshi film industry has achieved limited commercial success; the country has produced notable independent film makers. Zahir Raihan was a prominent documentary-maker who was assassinated in 1971. The late Tareque Masud is regarded as one of Bangladesh's outstanding directors due to his numerous productions on historical and social issues. Masud was honored by FIPRESCI at the Cannes Film Festival in 2002 for his film \"The Clay Bird\". Tanvir Mokammel, Mostofa Sarwar Farooki, Humayun Ahmed, Alamgir Kabir, Subhash Dutta and Chashi Nazrul Islam are other prominent directors of Bangladesh cinema.\n\nFestivals and celebrations are an integral part of the culture of Bangladesh. Muslim festivals of Eid ul-Fitr, Eid ul-Adha, Milad un Nabi, Muharram, Chand raat, Shab-e-Baraat, Bishwa Ijtema; Hindu festivals of Durga Puja and Janmashtami; Buddhist festival of Buddha Purnima; Christian festival of Christmas and secular festivals like Pohela Boishakh, Nabanna, Language Movement Day, Independence Day, Rabindra Jayanti, Nazrul Jayanti witness widespread celebrations and usually are national holidays in Bangladesh.\n\nAs the most important religious festival for the majority of Muslims, the celebration of Eid ul-Fitr has become a part of the culture of Bangladesh. The government of Bangladesh declares the holiday for three days on Eid-ul Fitr. But practically, all schools, colleges, and offices remain closed for a week. This is the happiest time of the year for most of the people in Bangladesh. All outgoing public transport from the major cities have become highly crowded and in many cases the fares tend to rise in spite of government restrictions.\nOn Eid day, the Eid prayers are held all over the country, in open areas like fields, Eidgahs or inside mosques. After the Eid prayers, people return home, visit each other's home and eat sweet dishes called \"Shirini\", \"Sheer Khurma\" and other delicacies like biryani, korma, haleem, kebab etc. Throughout the day people embrace each other and exchange greetings. It is also customary for junior members of the society to touch the feet of the seniors, and seniors returning blessings (sometimes with a small sum of money as a gift). Money and food are donated to the poor. In rural areas, the Eid festival is observed with great fanfare. Quiet remote villages become crowded. In some areas, Eid fairs are arranged. Different types of games including boat racing, kabaddi, and other traditional Bangladeshi games, as well as modern games like cricket and football, are played on this occasion. In urban areas, people play music, visit each other's houses, arrange picnics and eat special food. The homes, streets, markets, and parks are illuminated with lighting decorations in the evening. Watching movies and television programs have also become an integral part of the Eid celebration in urban areas. All local TV channels air special program for several days for this occasion.\n\nEid ul-Adha or Bakri Id is the second most important religious festival. The celebration of this festival similar to Eid ul-Fitr in many ways. The only big difference is the \"Kurbani\" or sacrifice of domestic animals. Numerous temporary marketplaces of different sizes called \"hat\" operate in the big cities for sale of Qurbani animals (usually cows, goats, and sheep). In the morning on the Eid day, immediately after the prayer, affluent people thank God for the animal and then sacrifice it. Less affluent people also take part in the festivity by visiting houses of the affluent who are taking part in \"kurbani\". After the \"kurbani\", a large portion of the meat is given to the poor people and to the relatives and neighbors. Although the religious doctrine allows the sacrifice anytime over a period of three days starting from the Eid day, most people prefer to perform the ritual on the first day of Eid. However, the public holiday spans over three to four days. Many people from the big cities go to their ancestral houses and homes in the villages to share the joy of the festival with friends and relatives.\n\nPoila Boishakh is the first day of the Bengali calendar. It is usually celebrated on 14 April. Poila Boishakh marks the start day of the crop season. Usually, on Poila Boishakh, the home is thoroughly scrubbed and cleaned; people bathe early in the morning and dress in fine clothes. They spend much of the day visiting relatives, friends, and neighbors and going to the fair. Fairs are arranged in many parts of the country where various agricultural products, traditional handicrafts, toys, cosmetics, as well as various kinds of food and sweets are sold. The fairs also provide entertainment, with singers, dancers, and traditional plays and songs. Horse races, bull races, bull-fights, cock-fights, flying pigeons, and boat racing were once popular. All gatherings and fairs consist of a wide spread of Bengali food and sweets. The most colorful New Year's Day festival takes place in Dhaka. Large numbers of people gather early in the morning under the banyan tree at Ramna Park where \"Chhayanat\" artists open the day with Rabindranath Tagore's famous song, \"Esho, he Boishakh, Esho esho\" (Come, year, come, come). A similar ceremony welcoming the new year is also held at the Institute of Fine Arts (Dhaka) and University of Dhaka. Students and teachers of the institute take out a colorful procession and parade to round the campus. Social and cultural organizations celebrate the day with cultural programmes. Newspapers bring out special supplements. There are also special programmes on radio and television. Prior to this day, special discounts on clothes, furniture, electronics, and various deals and shopping discounts are available. A special line of \"saree\", usually cotton, white sarees with red print and embroidery is sold before this day as everyone dresses up for this day. Jasmine and marigold flowers are also a huge sale for this event which adorns the women's hair.\n\nThe harvest festival is called the Nabanna. It is usually celebrated on the first day of Agrahayan (Bengali Month) the first day of harvesting. The main festival is organizing by Jatiya Nabanna Utshab Udjapan Parishad at Charukala (Fine Arts) in Dhaka University with a song, dance, Cake, sweet, colorful procession and many traditional presentations. Once upon a time (from very beginning) the first day of Agrahayan was the first day of Bangla calendar.\n\nIn 1952, the emerging middle classes of East Bengal underwent an uprising known later as the Bangla Language Movement. Bangladeshis (then East Pakistanis) were initially agitated by a decision by the Central Pakistan Government to establish Urdu, a minority language spoken only by the supposed elite class of West Pakistan, as the sole national language for all of Pakistan. The situation was worsened by an open declaration that \"Urdu and only Urdu will be the national language of Pakistan\" by the governor, Khawaja Nazimuddin. Police declared Section 144 which banned any sort of meeting. Defying this, the students of the University of Dhaka and Dhaka Medical College and other political activists started a procession on 21 February 1952. Near the current Dhaka Medical College Hospital, police fired on the protesters and numerous people, including Abdus Salam, Rafiq Uddin Ahmed, Sofiur Rahman, Abul Barkat, and Abdul Jabbar died. The movement spread to the whole of East Pakistan and the whole province came to a standstill. Afterward, the Government of Pakistan relented and gave Bengali equal status as a national language. This movement is thought to have sown the seeds for the independence movement which resulted in the liberation of Bangladesh in 1971. To commemorate this movement, Shaheed Minar, a solemn and symbolic sculpture, was erected in the place of the massacre. The day is revered in Bangladesh and, to a somewhat lesser extent, in West Bengal as the Martyrs' Day. This day is the public holiday in Bangladesh. UNESCO decided to observe 21 February as International Mother Language Day. The UNESCO General Conference took a decision that took effect on 17 November 1999 when it unanimously adopted a draft resolution submitted by Bangladesh and co-sponsored and supported by 28 other countries.\n\nDurga Puja, the largest religious festival for Hindus, is celebrated widely across Bangladesh. Thousands of pandals (mandaps) are set up in various villages, towns, and cities. Durga Puja is a grand cultural celebration in the capital city of Dhaka. Major pujas of Dhaka are held in numerous pandals, but the biggest celebration takes place at Dhakeshwari Temple where several thousand devotees and onlookers stream through the premises for four days. Special boat race on Buriganga river is arranged and it attracts a large crowd. A five-day holiday is observed by all educational institutions, while Bijoya Dashami is a public holiday. On Bijoya Dashami, effigies are paraded through the streets of Shankhari Bazaar in Old Dhaka in loud, colorful processions before being immersed into the rivers. Thousands of Muslims take part in the secular part of festivities in celebration of Bengali solidarity and culture.\n\nBengali weddings are traditionally in five parts: first, it is the bride and groom's \"Mehendi Shondha\" (also called \"Pan Chini\"), the bride's \"Gaye Holud\", the groom's \"Gaye Holud\", the \"Biye\", and the \"Bou Bhaat\". These often take place on separate days. The first event in a wedding is an informal one: the groom presents the bride with a ring marking the \"engagement\" which is gaining popularity. For the \"mehendi shondha\" the bride's side apply henna to each other as well as the bride for the bride's Gaye Holud, the groom's family – except the groom himself – go in procession to the bride's home. Bride's friends and family apply turmeric paste to her body as a part of Gaye Hoof bride, and they are traditionally all in matching clothes, mostly orange. The bride is seated on a dais, and the henna is used to decorate the bride's hands and feet with elaborate abstract designs. The sweets are then fed to the bride by all involved, piece by piece. The actual wedding ceremony \"Biye\" follows the Gaye Holud ceremonies. The wedding ceremony is arranged by the bride's family. On the day, the younger members of the bride's family barricade the entrance to the venue and demand a sort of admission charge from the groom in return for allowing him to enter. The bride and groom are seated separately, and a \"Kazi\" (authorized person by the govt. to perform the wedding), accompanied by the parents and a \"Wakil\" (witness) from each side formally asks the bride for her consent to the union, and then the groom for his. The bride's side of the family tries to play some kind of practical joke on the groom such as stealing the groom's shoe. The reception, also known as \"Bou-Bhaat\" (reception), is a party given by the groom's family in return for the wedding party. It is typically a much more relaxed affair, with only the second-best wedding outfit being worn.\nThis is more or less the \"Musim\" wedding procession. The \"Hindu\" weddings also follow the same parts of the wedding but the wedding part is somewhat different. The wedding is done along with a feast and according to the Hindu religion's wedding steps, e.g. \"Shat-pake-badha\"; \"Shidur Daan\" etc. the wedding most likely lasts the whole night starting at the evening.\nThe Christian and Buddhist Wedding follow a totally different Process. They more or less follow Western Culture and Methods. Sometimes they too follow the Bengali wedding procession.\n\nBangladesh has appealing architecture from historic treasures to contemporary landmarks. It has evolved over centuries and assimilated influences from social, religious and exotic communities. Bangladesh has many architectural relics and monuments dating back thousands of years.\n\n\nCricket is the most popular sport in Bangladesh, followed by football. Kabaddi is the national sport in Bangladesh. Cricket is a game which has a massive and passionate following in Bangladesh. Bangladesh has joined the elite group of countries eligible to play Test cricket since 2000. The Bangladesh national cricket team goes by the nickname of the \"Tigers\" – after the royal Bengal tiger. The people of Bangladesh enjoy watching live sports. Whenever there is a cricket or football match between popular local teams or international teams in any local stadium significant number of spectators gather to watch the match live. The people also celebrate major victories of the national teams with great enthusiasm for the live game. Victory processions are the most common element in such celebrations. A former prime minister even made an appearance after an International one day cricket match in which Bangladesh beat Australia, she came to congratulate the victory. Also in late 2006 and 2007, football legend Zinedine Zidane paid a visit to local teams and various events thanks to the invite of Nobel Peace Prize winner Dr. Muhammad Yunus. Some traditional sports of Bangladesh include Nouka Baich, Kho Kho, Boli Khela, Lathi Khela etc.\n\nBangladesh is ethnically homogeneous, with Bengalis comprising 98% of the population. Bangladesh is a Muslim-majority country. Muslims constitute around 90% of the population in Bangladesh while Hindus and Buddhists are the most significant minorities of the country. Christians, Sikhs, and atheists form a very minuscule part of the population. But due to immense cultural diversity, multiple dialects, hybridization of social traits and norms as well as cultural upbringing, Bangladeshis cannot be stereotyped very easily, except for the only fact that they are very resilient in nature. People of different religions perform their religious rituals with festivity in Bangladesh. The Government has declared National Holidays on all important religious festivals of the four major religions. Eid al-Fitr, Durga Puja, Christmas, and Buddha Purnima are celebrated with enthusiasm in Bangladesh. All of these form an integral part of the cultural heritage of Bangladesh. People from several tribal communities like Chakma, Garo, Khasi, Jaintia, Marma, Santhal, Manipuri, Tripuri, Tanchangya, Mru, Mandi, Kuki, Bawm, Oraon, Khiang, Chak, Dhanuk, Munda, Rohingya also have their own respective festivals. Apart from these religious and tribal celebrations, there are also several secular festivals. Pohela Boishakh is the biggest cultural event among all the festivals in Bangladesh. Bangladesh also observes 21 February as Shaheed Dibas, 26 March as Independence Day, and 16 December as Victory Day.\n\nBangladesh is famous for its distinctive culinary tradition, delicious food, snacks, and savories. Steamed rice constitutes the staple food, and is served with a variety of vegetables, fried as well with curry, thick lentil soups, egg, fish and meat preparations of chicken, mutton, beef, duck. Bengalis have a sweet tooth.\nSweetmeats of Bangladesh are mostly milk based, and consist of several delights including \"rasgulla\", \"shondesh\", \"rasmalai\", \"gulab jam\", \"kala jam\", and \"chom-chom,\" jalebis, and laddus . Several other sweet preparations are also available. Bengali cuisine is rich and varied with the use of many specialised spices and flavours.\n\nFish is the dominant source of protein, cultivated in ponds and fished with nets in the fresh-water rivers of the Ganges delta. More than 40 types of mostly freshwater fish are common, including carp, varieties like \"rui\" (rohu), \"katla\", \"magur\" (catfish), \"chingŗi\" (prawn or shrimp), as well as \"shuţki machh\" (dried sea fish) are popular. Salt water fish ilish is very popular among Bengalis can be called an icon of Bengali cuisine. Unlike neighboring West Bengal, serving dishes with beef is not a taboo in Bangladesh. Beef curry is a very common and essential part of Bengal cuisine.\n\nBangladesh is home to a diverse range of traditional clothing which is still worn by people in their everyday life. Bangladeshi people have unique dress preferences. Bangladeshi men traditionally wear \"Panjabi\", which is structurally similar to the \"Kurta\" but very unique in design, on religious and cultural occasions. Unique to Bangladesh, the fotua is also a popular article of clothing which is available in styles for both men and women. Bangladeshi men wear \"lungi\" as casual wear (in rural areas). Due to the British influence during colonization, shirt-pant and suits are very common. Shari is the main and traditional dress of Bangladeshi women also and some young female also wears salwar kameez. In urban areas, women can also be seen wearing Western clothes. The women also have a different preference to which types of Sharee or any other popular dress like Salwar kameez they would like to wear. Whether it may be silk sharis, georgette sharis, or designer sharis, each particular fabric contributes to representing the culture overall. Weaving the fabric for these dresses is a traditional art in Bangladesh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893599", "title": "Fred Vinson (disambiguation)", "text": "Fred Vinson (disambiguation)\n\nFred M. Vinson (1890–1953) was a politician who served as United States Secretary of the Treasury and Chief Justice of the United States.\n\nFred Vinson may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1893624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893624", "title": "Downing Street memo", "text": "Downing Street memo\n\nThe Downing Street memo (or the Downing Street Minutes), sometimes described by critics of the Iraq War as the smoking gun memo, is the note of a 23 July 2002 secret meeting of senior British government, defence and intelligence figures discussing the build-up to the war, which included direct reference to classified United States policy of the time. The name refers to 10 Downing Street, the residence of the British prime minister.\n\nThe memo, written by Downing Street foreign policy aide Matthew Rycroft, recorded the head of the Secret Intelligence Service (MI6) as expressing the view following his recent visit to Washington that \"[George W.] Bush wanted to remove Saddam Hussein, through military action, justified by the conjunction of terrorism and WMD. But the intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy.\"\nIt quoted Foreign Secretary Jack Straw as saying it was clear that Bush had \"made up his mind\" to take military action but that \"the case was thin.\"\nStraw also noted that Iraq retained \"WMD capability\" and that \"Saddam would continue to play hard-ball with the UN.\"\nThe military asked about the consequences \"if Saddam used WMD on day one,\" posing Kuwait or Israel as potential targets.\nAttorney-General Lord Goldsmith warned that justifying the invasion on legal grounds would be difficult. However, the meeting took place several months before the adoption of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1441, the resolution eventually used as the legal basis for the invasion of Iraq. UNR687 also provided a pre-existing basis, as it required Iraq to divest itself of \"100%\" of all WMD capacity, which the Memo agreed it had not.\n\nA copy of the memo was obtained by British journalist Michael Smith and published in \"The Sunday Times\" in May 2005, on the eve of British elections. Smith stated that the memo was equivalent to the Pentagon Papers which exposed American intentions in the Vietnam War and alleged the American media did not report more about it due to a perceived bias towards support for the war. Though its authenticity has never been seriously challenged, the British and American governments have stated that the contents do not accurately reflect their official policy positions at the time.\n\nThe memo was first published in \"The Sunday Times\" on 1 May 2005, during the last days of the UK general election campaign.\n\nIt went largely unremarked in the U.S. press at first, but was heavily covered in progressive blogs such as those on Daily Kos, because of a remark attributed to Richard Dearlove (then MI6 head) that \"the intelligence and facts were being fixed [by the U.S.] around the policy\" of removing Saddam Hussein from power, which was interpreted to show that US intelligence on Iraq prior to the war was deliberately falsified, rather than simply mistaken.\n\nAs this issue began to be covered by American media (\"Los Angeles Times\" on 12 May 2005, \"Washington Post\" on 13 May 2005, two other main allegations stemming from the memo arose: that the UN weapons inspection process was manipulated to provide a legal pretext for the war, and that pre-war air strikes were deliberately ramped up in order to soften Iraqi infrastructure in preparation for war, prior to the October U.S. Senate vote permitting the invasion.\n\nSome elements of the U.S. media have portrayed the document as faked or fraudulent, and Dana Perino referred in her daily White House press briefing on 4 December 2008 to the fact that the Bush administration has \"debunked\" the document previously. The British have tacitly validated its authenticity (as when Tony Blair replied to a press conference question by saying \"that memorandum was written before we then went to the United Nations.\")\n\nA group of 131 members of Congress led by John Conyers, repeatedly requested that President George W. Bush respond to the contents of the document. A resolution of inquiry was filed by Representative Barbara Lee, which would request that the President and the State Department turn over all relevant information with regard to US policy towards Iraq. The resolution had 70 co-sponsors.\n\nThe minutes were meant to be kept confidential and were headed \"This record is extremely sensitive. No further copies should be made. It should be shown only to those with a genuine need to know its contents.\" It deals with the lead-up to the 2003 Iraq War, and comes at a point at which it becomes clear to those attending, that US President George W. Bush intended to remove Saddam Hussein from power by force.\n\nThe minutes run through the military options and then consider the political strategy in which an appeal for support from the international community and from domestic opinion would be most likely to be positively received. It suggests that an ultimatum for Saddam to allow back United Nations weapons inspectors be issued, and that this would help to make the use of force legal. Tony Blair is quoted as saying that the British public would support regime change in the right political context.\n\nThe most controversial paragraph is a report of a recent visit to Washington by head of the Secret Intelligence Service Sir Richard Dearlove (known in official terminology as 'C'):\n\nThe British analysis of US policy is also stated elsewhere in the minutes:\n\nThe main sections covering the ultimatum are:\n\nThe minutes also outlines potential risks of an invasion of Iraq:\n\nIn the United States, proponents of a formal congressional inquiry say that the minutes, along with testimonies from credible witnesses, shed sufficient doubt on the actions of the Bush Administration to warrant a formal inquiry. In particular, they say that the minutes indicate that the Administration was determined to go to war with Iraq prior to considerations of legality, and with full knowledge that, at best, \"the case was slim.\" And furthermore that they selected and exaggerated intelligence so as to confirm their policy and developed a plan to manipulate public opinion. Also, proponents say that the contents (such as \"Military action was now seen as inevitable.\") and the \"date\" of the memo, 23 July 2002, contradicts the official White House position that President Bush did not finally decide to carry out the invasion of March 2003 until after Secretary of State Colin L. Powell presented the administration's case to the United Nations Security Council, in a speech on 5 February 2003. They also say that the minutes are dated at a time when Bush stated that \"we haven't made any decisions on Iraq, but all options are on the table.\"\n\nAnother paragraph has been taken to show that Geoff Hoon believed the timing of the war was intended to influence American elections:\n\nIt has been said that some of those present at the meeting believed that Iraq might possess weapons of mass destruction (WMD) \"capacity\". However, the minutes explicitly state that the capability was less than that of Libya, Iran, and North Korea, and that Saddam was not threatening his neighbours.\n\nOn 5 May 2005, Democratic Congressman John Conyers sent to President Bush signed by 89 of his colleagues demanding an explanation of the \"troubling revelations\" in the memo. No specific White House response to the letter was ever made publicly. In response to the Bush Administration's refusal to answer the congressional delegation's questions, Conyers et al. considered sending a fact-finding mission to the UK.\n\nConyers initially requested 100,000 signatures from citizens (a petition) to request that President Bush answer the questions in his letter. The letter began accumulating between 20,000 and 25,000 signatures a day, boosted by progressive political action group MoveOn.org, which joined the campaign on 9 June. By 13 June 2005, the letter had received over 540,000 signatures from citizens, and more congressmen had signed on, bringing the total to 94 – three days later, over 100 congressmen had signed the letter, including then-Minority Leader Nancy Pelosi.\n\nOn 16 June 2005, Conyers presided over an unofficial hearing or forum on the Downing Street memo in a basement room in the Capitol where notable opponents of the Iraq War Joseph C. Wilson, Ray McGovern and Cindy Sheehan, among others, testified.\n\nSmintheus at Daily Kos, a liberal web site, and MYDD first addressed the memo on the night of 30 April 2005.\n\nBy the next morning the document was elevated to a major story on the Daily Kos, where Democratic Congressman John Conyers learned of its existence.\n\nA website, www.downingstreetmemo.com, was created on 13 May, \"to fill a void left by the American mainstream media,\" and continues with its primary aim \"to provide a resource for anyone who wants to understand the meaning and context of these documents as they relate to the Bush administration's case for war.\"\n\nOn 30 May 2005, in a \"blogswarm\" fueled by the memo, hundreds of blogs joined together to form the Big Brass Alliance in support of After Downing Street.\n\nOn 1 June 2005 a targeted media campaign called 'Awaken the Mainstream Media' began jointly at Daily Kos and downingstreetmemo.com. Every day it listed new contact information for three news outlets, so that readers could contact them to urge them to provide better coverage of the issues around the Downing Street memo and other released documents.\n\nOn 18 May, conservative pundit and former Reagan Administration advisor Paul Craig Roberts wrote an article calling for Bush's impeachment for lying to Congress about the case for war.\n\nOn 31 May, liberal consumer advocate and former Presidential hopeful Ralph Nader wrote an article on ZNet calling for Bush and Cheney’s impeachment under Article II, Section 4 of the United States Constitution. Also on that day, he and Kevin Zeese authored an op-ed for the \"Boston Globe\" to support the call for impeachment against Bush, citing the memo as part of the evidence that the possibility of deliberate deception by the administration should be investigated.\n\nOn 30 January 2006, an article entitled \"The Impeachment of George W. Bush\", written by Elizabeth Holtzman (Rep. NY-D 1973–1981, member of the House Judiciary Committee that held impeachment hearings of President Richard Nixon) was published by the left-wing periodical \"The Nation\". The article makes specific references to the Downing Street memo.\n\nA coalition of American groups known as After Downing Street, co-founded by a group of longtime progressive and/or Democratic Party activists, called on Congress to file a Resolution of Inquiry, the first necessary legal step to determine whether President Bush had committed impeachable offences. The formal Resolution of Inquiry request was written by Boston constitutional attorney John C. Bonifaz. The request states the constitutional grounds for impeachment:\n\nDemocrats.com raised one thousand dollars, offered as a reward to anyone who could get George Bush to answer the following question \"Yes\" or \"No:\n\nIn addition a number of lesser prizes were offered for lesser responses, down to a $100 for posing the question clearly to Bush.\n\nThe Downing Street Minutes was a major story in the British press during the last few days of the 2005 general election campaign and was also covered in other countries. The story initially had limited coverage in the US but later recently received greater attention in the American press. The organisation Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting has been among those that have criticised the US print media, saying they \"continue to downplay [the] story.\" According to Media Matters for America, there were some early mentions in \"The New York Times\", the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", the \"New York Sun\", and the \"Washington Post\", though coverage was slight (the \"Post\"<nowiki>'s</nowiki> first article appeared in the \"Style\" section) and primarily aimed at the impact it would have on the British elections, rather than how it affected the Bush administration. The Knight-Ridder news service produced some reportage at the time, but independent articles were limited. The \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"Star Tribune\" put local reporters on the story, and produced early articles on 12 May and 13 May, respectively.\n\nAt the \"Star Tribune\", initial interest had been piqued after a reader e-mailed information he had seen on the Internet to the paper's ombudsman, who forwarded it to others in the news department. Being quite a distance from London, editors first waited for articles to come across on wire services. Undoubtedly, many other newspapers across the country reacted similarly. After a few days of no news, however, a local reporter was assigned. The article was initially scheduled to run on 11 May, but was pushed back so that it could have greater prominence on a slower news day later in the week.\n\nSince that time, much of the coverage about the memo has discussed the lack of coverage. One of the first reports include that topic was a 17 May article in the \"Christian Science Monitor\". The report was one of the most extensive for a nationwide publication up until that time.\n\nOn 20 May 2005, Daniel Okrent, the Public Editor at the time for \"The New York Times\", publicly assessed the coverage of the minutes in the paper in a forum on the NYT's website. He also stated that, due to continuing reader interest, the paper intends to give fuller coverage to the memo. Although Okrent stepped down at the end of May (the routine end of his term), on \"NewsHour\" on 8 June he suggested some possible reasons that the US media had been so slow to cover what he considered a very important story. He said it may have been assigned to 'foreign news' correspondents and wasn't seen as a Bush story, or it may be the US media was still working on researching it (although he then admitted he had no reason to believe that).\n\nAlso on 8 June, \"USA Today\" printed an article by their senior assignment editor for foreign news, Jim Cox, saying with respect to the memo, \"We could not obtain the memo or a copy of it from a reliable source. … There was no explicit confirmation of its authenticity from (Blair's office). And it was disclosed four days before the British elections, raising concerns about the timing.\"\n\nThe \"Star Tribune\" revisited the Downing Street Minutes as part of the evidence in a Memorial Day editorial. It stated explicitly,\n\"The New York Times\" reported on the memos on 27 March 2006.\n\nMSNBC reported on the memos on 28 March 2006. MSNBC has an article and a video clip from \"NBC Nightly News with Brian Williams\".\n\nThe Colombian newspaper \"El Tiempo\" implicated the Prime Minister's role in the Iraq War on 9 May 2007 – and the Downing Street memo specifically – as \"the principal reason for the UK's disillusionment with Tony Blair.\"\n\nThe Chilean newspaper \"La Segunda\" on 11 May 2007 called the Downing Street memo \"one of the best-kept secrets in Tony Blair's ten years as prime minister.\"\n\nOne of the first articles on the memo to appear in the US media quoted \"a former senior US official\", who, speaking on condition of anonymity, called the memo's account \"an absolutely accurate description of what transpired\" during the senior British intelligence officer's visit to Washington. UK Prime Minister Tony Blair denied that anything in the memo demonstrated misconduct and said that it added little to what was already known about how British policy on Iraq developed, also commenting that \"that memorandum was written before we went to the United Nations\".\n\n\nOn 7 June 2005, at a joint George W. Bush-Tony Blair press briefing in the White House, Reuters correspondent Steve Holland asked, \"On Iraq, the so-called Downing Street memo from July 2002 says intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy of removing Saddam through military action. Is this an accurate reflection of what happened? Could both of you respond?\" President Bush did not address the issue of the intelligence and facts being \"fixed\" around a decision to go to war, but he did deny that he had, at the time of the memo, already decided to use military force against Saddam Hussein, saying \"There's nothing farther from the truth.\" Bush also questioned the motives of whoever leaked the memo during the British election, saying \"Well, I—you know, I read kind of the characterisations of the memo, particularly when they dropped it out in the middle of his race. … I'm not sure who 'they dropped it out' is, but—I'm not suggesting that you all dropped it out there.\"\n\nWhen the document was published, UK Prime Minister Tony Blair denied that anything in the memo demonstrated misconduct and said that it added little to what was already known about how British policy on Iraq developed.\n\nBlair's response to Steve Holland at the joint news conference with Bush was \"No, the facts were not being fixed in any shape or form at all\". He also reiterated that he and Bush had continued to try to find a way to avert war, \"As it happened, we weren't able to do that because – as I think was very clear – there was no way that Saddam Hussein was ever going to change the way that he worked, or the way that he acted,\". He said the same thing in a 7 June 2005 interview with Gwen Ifill on \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\".\n\nOn 16 May, presidential spokesman Scott McClellan said that the memo's statement that intelligence was \"being fixed\" to support a decision to invade Iraq was \"flat out wrong\". However, McClellan admitted that he has not read the memo, but has only received reports of what it contains.\n\nOn 17 May, McClellan told reporters that the White House saw \"no need\" to respond to the letter from Congress.\n\nOn 23 May, when BTC News reporter Eric Brewer asked him about his 16 May statement, McClellan said:\nThe following day, a popular political blog, ThinkProgress, posted a response titled \"Take the McClellan Challenge\", comparing what the intelligence was with how it was used by the administration.\n\nOn 1 May 2005, US Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice and UK Foreign Secretary Jack Straw were questioned on the memo, although neither was able to give a detailed answer. Straw stated that he had not expected the question to come up.\n\nFollowing the advice of company lawyers, Michael Smith, the journalist who first reported on the Downing Street Memo, has said that he protected the identity of his source by reproducing all documents and returning the 'originals' back to the source. In some cases, a document was retyped from a photocopy, and the photocopy destroyed. This has led some to question the document's authenticity, but no official source has questioned it, and it has been unofficially confirmed to various news organisations, including the Washington Post, NBC, The Sunday Times, and the LA Times. Several other documents obtained by Smith, and treated similarly (see below), were confirmed as genuine by the UK Foreign Office.\n\nPrevious to the appearance of the Downing Street Memo, six other British (Blair) Cabinet papers originating around March 2002 were obtained by Michael Smith and used in two \"Daily Telegraph\" stories published on 18 September 2004. The documents describe issues relating to the meetings held between Bush and Blair at Bush's Crawford, Texas, ranch in April 2002. They are:\n\n\nOn receipt of the documents, in September 2004, acting on the advice of lawyers, Smith says he photocopied them and returned the originals to his source, then, after the \"Telegraph\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s legal desk secretary typed transcripts on an \"old fashioned typewriter\", the \"Telegraph\" destroyed their copies of the originals, in order to frustrate any future police investigation of the leaks.\n\nThe documents were widely quoted in the British press immediately following the \"Telegraph\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s story, for example in \"The Guardian\" and \"The Sunday Herald\".\n\nOn 5 October 2004, facsimiles of these documents appeared online, provided by Professor Michael Lewis of Cambridge University, who had also housed the file at Iraq expert Glen Rangwala's Middle East Reference website. The file derives ultimately from the typed transcript of the documents made by Smith and the \"Telegraph\".\n\nInterest in these documents was revived around 8 June 2005, following their appearance in a discussion thread at Democratic Underground and subsequently they began to be quoted in US media, after Rawstory and NBC verified their authenticity with Smith and British government sources.\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" published an article on 15 June 2005, describing several of the \"new\" documents; the article says that \"Michael Smith, the defense writer for \"The Sunday Times\" who revealed the Downing Street minutes in a story 1 May, provided a full text of the six new documents to the \"Los Angeles Times\".\"\n\nThe six documents are available in PDF form from the Think Progress web site.\n\nA further document, a 21 July 2002, cabinet office paper titled \"Conditions for Military Action\", which is a briefing paper for the meeting of which the Downing Street Memo is the minutes, was published (with the last page missing) by \"The Sunday Times\" on 12 June 2005.\n\nAnother document was the Rycroft email, showing the author of the Downing Street Memo actually believed that Saddam should be removed because of a threat by Iraq getting WMDs into the hands of terrorists.\n\nThe 18 September 2004 \"Daily Telegraph\" article contains the only known reproductions of the original memos (scanned from a photocopy). That article is called \"Failure is not an option, but it doesn't mean they will avoid it\".\n\nOn Thursday, 16 June 2005 Reuters mislabelled a photograph of what it claimed was \"a copy of the Downing Street Memo\".\n\nIt turned out to actually be a picture of a document found in a 28 April 2005 Guardian Unlimited story. (At this link, view this PDF:\n07.03.03: Attorney general's full advice on Iraq war (pdf)) This PDF detailed Lord Goldsmith’s confidential advice on the legality of the Iraq war and does not match the text of any of the alleged Downing Street Memos. It's an entirely different document that describes legal authorisation for the invasion of Iraq under standing UN resolutions.\n\nJournalists such as Fred Kaplan point out that the later section of the memo that discusses potential consequences of an invasion, including Saddam's use of WMD against Kuwait or Israel, directly contradicts interpretations of the memo as a \"smoking gun\" about WMD fabrication.\n\nAs mentioned above, shortly after the appearance of the memo, Tony Blair was asked:\n\nBlair responded:\nIt is not clear whether this is a criticism of the assessment of his own head of foreign intelligence (Dearlove) or a criticism of a particular interpretation of Dearlove's phrase \"fixed around\".\n\nThe interpretation of the sentence: \"But the intelligence and facts were being fixed around the policy.\" has caused debate.\n\nRobin Niblett, a member of the Center for Strategic and International Studies, a Washington think tank, has said it would be easy for Americans to misunderstand the reference to intelligence being \"fixed around\" Iraq policy. \" 'Fixed around' in British English means 'bolted on' rather than altered to fit the policy,\" he says. This view was seconded by Christopher Hitchens and Fred Kaplan.\n\nOthers have suggested various British English usages of the phrase \"were being fixed\" (for example as a colloquialism meaning \"to agree upon,\") which are distinct from the usage (both American and British) derived from criminal argot, meaning \"fraudulently altered or changed.\" The author of the memo, Matthew Rycroft, employed the former usage in an e-mail when talking about an appointment, \"This is now fixed for 0800\". Some detractors from the memo have appeared to make the argument or give the impression that the \"fraudulently altered\" sense of \"fix\" is uniquely American and does not exist in British English, but this is false.\n\nOther commentaters have dismissed this, saying that context makes it clear that \"being fixed around\" used \"fix\" in the sense of \"fraudulently arrange the result\", a common British usage (sense 12(b) of \"fix\" in the printed Concise Oxford English Dictionary, given as sense 7, \"deviously influence the outcome of\" in the Compact OED online version.) The argument has also been made that this view is supported by negative qualification implied by the presence of the word \"But\" at the start of the relevant sentence: \"But the intelligence and facts were being (innocently) \"agreed upon\" around the policy\" is, it is said, an implausible reading because there is nothing negative, per se, about agreement, whereas \"But the intelligence and facts were being \"fraudulently arranged\" ...\", it is argued, appears to make perfect sense, because it fulfills the negative expectation set up by the word \"but\".\n\nFred Kaplan noted that \"Either way—'fixed' or 'fixed around'—Bush and his aides had decided to let policy shape intelligence, not the other way around; they were explicitly politicising intelligence.\"\n\nWhen asked about the memo's implication that Iraq intelligence was being \"fixed\", White House spokesman Scott McClellan said, \"The suggestion is just flat-out wrong.\" But McClellan would later admit that intelligence was suited to fit the policy in a tell-all book.\n\nAn Iraq \"options paper\", dated 8 March 2002, stated: \"Despite sanctions, Iraq continues to develop WMD\" (though it adds that intelligence on the matter is \"poor\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893641", "title": "Tenacious D (album)", "text": "Tenacious D (album)\n\nTenacious D is the first studio album by American comedy rock band Tenacious D, released on September 25, 2001 by Epic Records. The album's polished production was a departure from the band's acoustic origins, due in part to the production of the Dust Brothers.\n\n\"Tribute\" was the first single released from the album, followed by \"Wonderboy\". Both singles had music videos filmed for them, with the Liam Lynch–directed Tribute video achieving cult status. While \"Tenacious D\" did not achieve chart success after its release, it was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America by the end of 2005. Despite only peaking at #38 in the UK, it had sold 426,000 copies countrywide by 2006.\n\nFor their first album, they enlisted the help of drummer Dave Grohl, keyboardist Page McConnell of Phish, guitarist Warren Fitzgerald, and bass player Steven Shane McDonald. The Dust Brothers produced the album. The majority of the songs on their debut album stem from early versions as seen on their HBO TV series, \"Tenacious D\". The record itself does not list the song titles on the back cover as is the convention but instead on the back cover of the jacket; therefore one must open the CD (after presumably buying it) to read them. This is perhaps to allow songs with expletives or words otherwise deemed offensive to escape censorship or omission.\n\nThe recording session for the album began with a two-day session at Neil Diamond's ArcAngel studio in Los Angeles where initial drum tracks were recorded. They were able to use the studio because Diamond had just appeared with Black in the film \"Saving Silverman\", in which Black plays a Neil Diamond cover singer. \"Diamond claims it was the Liberty Records studio,\" King says. \"It's a really old place.\" At least one song was cut from the final release of the album. A studio recording of \"Jesus Ranch,\" the final song from the HBO shorts (the closing credits feature the end of \"The Road\"), was omitted from the album because \"it just didn't cut the mustard\" (quoted by the D in the FAQ section of their website). The HBO version can be found on their DVD, \"The Complete Masterworks\", and a recorded studio demo can be found on their 2002 EP, \"D Fun Pak\".\n\nThe front cover features Black and Gass standing naked below the Devil. The pose is similar to that shown on some Devil tarot cards. Due to the Satanic nature of the cover, the album was briefly recalled from stores. The band performed in front of this at concerts.\n\n\"Tribute\", the first single from the album, discusses the \"greatest song in the world\" written to save the souls of Gass and Black from a demon but later forgotten. The song dropped guitar riffs from Led Zeppelin's \"Stairway to Heaven\" which had appeared in early versions. The single, the band's most successful, achieved Tenacious D's only chart top-ten peaking at #4 in Australia. The video, directed by Liam Lynch, was voted by Kerrang! readers as the fifth best music video.\n\nThe second single \"Wonderboy\", a biographical ballad, was critically well-received, with the BBC describing it as \"endearing\". In 2002, the video, directed by Spike Jonze, won a Music Video Production Association for \"Best Direction of a Music Video\". The third music video for \"Fuck Her Gently\", a song described as an \"underground hit\" and, according to Black, lauded by women's groups depicted an animated Black and Gass as cherubs by John Kricfalusi, the creator of \"Ren and Stimpy\".\n\nThe album opens with \"Kielbasa\", a song discussing anal sex. The previously popular pseudo-science book, \"\" is also mentioned, as well as Krishna. \"Dio\" is a tribute to Ronnie James Dio that calls for the singer to \"pass the torch\" on to Tenacious D. Black has said that this was a compliment as they could have asked others for the torch but \"ultimately, we were bestowing an honor upon him.\" Reportedly, Dio approved of the song and let Tenacious D appear in the video for his single, \"Push\". In addition, Dio also appeared in the 2006 film \"Tenacious D in The Pick of Destiny\", playing himself. \"Explosivo\" was originally intended as a tribute to Kurt Cobain.\n\nSeven of the tracks on the album are comedy skits: \"One Note Song\", \"Hard Fucking\", \"Inward Singing\", \"Cock Pushups\", \"Friendship Test\", \"Karate Schnitzel\" and \"Drive-Thru\".\n\n\"Double Team\" is another song on the topic of sex, in particular threesomes. \"The Road\" deals with groupies whilst touring. \"Lee\", named after their \"no 1 fan\" Lee, is a song from the short \"The Fan\", in which the band stalk their biggest fan, and sing an obsessive song about him. \"Karate\" is described as an aggressive song taken from the short \"Angel in Disguise\" in which Black and Gass fight. The song ends with Black saying the words 'donkey crap' in reverse audio. \"Kyle Quit The Band\", from \"The Search for Inspirado\", is a song which documents the band reuniting after breaking up.\n\n\"Rock Your Socks\" with Tenacious D's desire to prove its classical and rock prowess through giving \"a taste\" of Bach's \"Bourrée in E minor\" from \"Suite in E minor for Lute\", BWV 996, also used in another of Tenacious D song – \"Classico\". (\"That is Bach and it rocks...\"), popularized by one of the most famous classical guitarists: Andrés Segovia and prog rock band, Jethro Tull. The song features a shock comedy climax when lead singer Jack Black asks for the listener, in return for their troubles in playing to them, to perform a coprophilic ritual (referred to colloquially as a Cleveland steamer).\n\n\"Friendship\" talks of Black and Gass' relationship. They sing of friendship being \"rare\".\n\nIn \"City Hall\", the longest song on the album – described as epic – lead singer Black calls for the legalisation of cannabis. The song is described by the band, and others as a rock opera.\n\nSome critics have lamented that songs performed live and featured on the TV series were not included on the album. These include \"Jesus Ranch\" and \"Cosmic Shame\". Black accounted for the band's decision not to include \"Jesus Ranch\" saying \"it just didn't cut the mustard\". A demo recording of \"Jesus Ranch\" was later released on the \"D Fun Pak\".\n\nIn support of the album, the band embarked on a national tour. All the songs were performed acoustically. The band covered Queen's \"Flash\" and The Beatles \"You Never Give Me Your Money\".\n\nTenacious D shows featured \"City Hall\" in the encore, a song about rioting against the government, and it played at shows until the events of September 11 attacks. The band initially removed the song from the set, but would eventually return it in the spring of 2002.\n\nTenacious D's first album garnered critical acclaim. Review aggregate website Metacritic gave the album a score of 85 out of 100, signifying \"universal acclaim\". \"Entertainment Weekly\" described the release as being \"hilarious,\" and \"no mere comedy record.\" AllMusic said it \"rocks so damn hard\" but it reflects on the lack of some of the songs from the HBO episodes. \"The A.V. Club\" wrote that Black and Gass manage \"an odd simultaneous fusion of stupid and clever\", while \"Time\" wrote, \"The pleasures of \"Tenacious D\"... flow from a similar revelation: Black and Gass set themselves up as buffoons with titles like Karate Schnitzel, then proceed to defy expectations with precise guitars, polished vocal harmonies and slamming backup musicians\".\n\n\"Splendid\" magazine said of Tenacious D, \"As entertainment, Tenacious D succeeds surprisingly well – for the first few listens... The only long-term replay value you'll get from this record will come from playing it for friends who haven't heard it.\" \"Flak Magazine\" criticised the band's use of skits between songs, describing them as \"distracting\" and a \"nuisance\". In addition, Andy Gill of \"The Independent\" remarked that the album was full of \"swearing and scatology\" and was \"bereft of even the slightest skidmark of humour\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893648", "title": "Caroline Vernon", "text": "Caroline Vernon\n\nCaroline Nellie Vernon (2 August 1908 – 7 May 1988) was born in Woolwich, London, England to Emma Clark (née Pearce) and Frederick Clark. She married John Ernest Vernon, a writer in the Royal Navy in 1931. In 1936 she joined her husband in Malta where she spent the next seven years. She worked as a volunteer cryptanalyst.\n\nShe had four children. Michael Vernon (1932–1993), Dorothy (1933), David (1936) and John (1943).\n\nHer experience living on the most \"bombed island on earth\" during World War II was posthumously published in 1990 as \"Our Name Wasn't Written - A Malta Memoir.\" A second edition was published in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893658", "title": "List of governors of the Reserve Bank of India", "text": "List of governors of the Reserve Bank of India\n\nThe Governor of the Reserve Bank of India is the Chief Executive Officer of India's central bank and the \"ex-officio\" chairperson of its Central Board of Directors. Indian Rupee currency notes, issued by the Reserve Bank of India, bear the governor's signature. Since its establishment in 1935 by the British colonial government, the RBI has been headed by twenty-fivegovernors.The Governor of Reserve Bank of India is a member of the \"Strategic Policy Group\" headed by National Security Advisor Ajit Doval.It is a crucial wing of National Security Council.\n\nThe term of office typically runs for three years and can, in some cases, be extended for two years.\n\nThe inaugural officeholder was the British banker Osborne Smith, while C. D. Deshmukh was the first Indian governor. Holding office for over sevenyears, Benegal Rama Rau is the longest-serving governor, while Amitav Ghosh's 20-day term is the shortest. The bank's 15thgovernor, Dr Manmohan Singh, later became India's 13thprime minister. Shaktikanta Das is the 25thgovernor of the Reserve Bank of India from .\n\n"}
{"id": "1893659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893659", "title": "Wilson Mountains", "text": "Wilson Mountains\n\nThe Wilson Mountains ( are a group of mountains including Hjort Massif, rising to approximately to the west of Merz Peninsula, Black Coast, Palmer Land in Antarctica. The feature is bounded to the west by the Du Toit Mountains, to the north by Beaumont Glacier and Hilton Inlet, and to the south by Defant Glacier.\n\nFirst photographed from the air by USAS, 1940. Mapped by USGS from U.S. Navy aerial photographs taken 1966–69. In association with the names of continental drift scientists grouped in this area, named by US-ACAN after John Tuzo Wilson (1908–93), Canadian geophysicist who visited Antarctica on US Navy Operation Deep Freeze, 1958. Wilson was professor of Geophysics, University of Toronto, 1946–74 and Director-General, Ontario Science Centre, 1974–85.\n"}
{"id": "1893660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893660", "title": "Patricia Hayes", "text": "Patricia Hayes\n\nPatricia Lawlor Hayes (22 December 1909 – 19 September 1998) was an English BAFTA Television Award-winning character actress.\n\nHayes was born in Streatham, London, the daughter of George Frederick Hayes and Florence Alice Hayes. Her father was a clerk in the civil service and her mother was a schoolmistress. As a child, Hayes attended the Sacred Heart School in Hammersmith.\n\nShe was featured in many radio and television comedy shows between 1940 and 1996, including \"Hancock's Half Hour\", \"Ray's a Laugh\", \"The Arthur Askey Show\", \"The Benny Hill Show\", \"Bootsie and Snudge\", \"Hugh and I\" and \"Till Death Us Do Part\". She played the part of Henry Bones in the BBC Children's Hour radio programme \"Norman and Henry Bones – The Boy Detectives\" during the late 1940s.\n\nHayes was cast in supporting roles for films including \"The Bargee\" (1964), \"The NeverEnding Story\" (1984), \"A Fish Called Wanda\" (1988) and was also featured as Fin Raziel in the Ron Howard film \"Willow\" (1988).\n\nHer most substantial television appearance was in the title role of \"Edna, the Inebriate Woman\" (\"Play for Today\", 1971) for which she won a BAFTA award. She provided the character voice for comedy puppet performances for television and DVDs – e.g. Gran (Woodland Animations, 1982).\n\nShe was the subject of \"This Is Your Life\" in 1972 when she was surprised by Eamonn Andrews.\n\nIn April 1975, Hayes was interviewed by Roy Plomley for \"Desert Island Discs\". A sizeable, yet incomplete, extract is available to listen to and download via the programme's website on the BBC.\n\nIn 1977, she appeared on the BBC's long running TV variety show \"The Good Old Days\"; she had been an early member of the Players' Theatre in London, an old time music hall club, from the 1950s onwards.\n\nIn 1985, she starred in the title role of the TV play, \"Mrs Capper's Birthday\", by Noël Coward.\n\nShe was the mother of British actor Richard O'Callaghan (born Richard Brooke) by her marriage to the late Valentine Brooke, whom she divorced. She never remarried. She was formerly the head of the British Catholic Stage Guild, which her son, Richard, now chairs.\n\nShe was awarded an OBE in 1988.\n\nPatricia Hayes died in September, 1998 in Surrey but she appeared posthumously in the 2002 film \"Crime and Punishment\" which had been filmed in 1993, but delayed because of a legal case.\nShe is buried at Watts Cemetery, Compton, Surrey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893663", "title": "Logical shift", "text": "Logical shift\n\nIn computer science, a logical shift is a bitwise operation that shifts all the bits of its operand. The two base variants are the logical left shift and the logical right shift. This is further modulated by the number of bit positions a given value shall be shifted, such as \"shift left by 1\" or \"shift right by n\". Unlike an arithmetic shift, a logical shift does not preserve a number's sign bit or distinguish a number's exponent from its significand (mantissa); every bit in the operand is simply moved a given number of bit positions, and the vacant bit-positions are filled, usually with zeros, and possibly ones (contrast with a circular shift).\n\nA logical shift is often used when its operand is being treated as a sequence of bits instead of as a number.\n\nLogical shifts can be useful as efficient ways to perform multiplication or division of unsigned integers by powers of two. Shifting left by \"n\" bits on a signed or unsigned binary number has the effect of multiplying it by 2. Shifting right by \"n\" bits on an \"unsigned\" binary number has the effect of dividing it by 2 (rounding towards 0).\n\nLogical right shift differs from arithmetic right shift. Thus, many languages have different operators for them. For example, in Java and JavaScript, the logical right shift operator is »>, but the arithmetic right shift operator is ». (Java has only one left shift operator («), because left shift via logic and arithmetic have the same effect.)\n\nThe programming languages C, C++, and Go, however, have only one right shift operator, ». Most C and C++ implementations, and Go, choose which right shift to perform depending on the type of integer being shifted: signed integers are shifted using the arithmetic shift, and unsigned integers are shifted using the logical shift.\n\nAll currently relevant C standards (ISO/IEC 9899:1999 to 2011) leave a definition gap for cases where the number of shifts is equal to or bigger than the number of bits in the operands in a way that the result is undefined. This helps allow C compilers to emit efficient code for various platforms by allowing direct use of the native shift instructions which have differing behavior. For example, shift-left-word in PowerPC chooses the more-intuitive behavior where shifting by the bit width or above gives zero, whereas SHL in x86 chooses to mask the shift amount to the lower bits \"to reduce the maximum execution time of the instructions\", and as such a shift by the bit width doesn't change the value.\n\nSome languages, such as the .NET Framework and LLVM, also leave shifting by the bit width and above \"unspecified\" (.NET) or \"undefined\" (LLVM). Others choose to specify the behavior of their most common target platforms, such as C# which specifies the x86 behavior.\n\nIf the bit sequence 0001 0111 (decimal 23) is logically shifted by one bit position, then:\n\nNote: MSB = Most Significant Bit, \nLSB = Least Significant Bit\n"}
{"id": "1893665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893665", "title": "California University of Pennsylvania", "text": "California University of Pennsylvania\n\nCalifornia University of Pennsylvania (Cal U) is a public university in California, Pennsylvania. Founded in 1852, it is a member of the Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education (PASSHE). The university offers bachelor's, master's, and doctoral degrees. It is accredited by the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.\n\nThe main campus consists of about 38 buildings situated on . Another facility is located near the main campus and houses the school's soccer facility. An additional recreation complex, George H. Roadman University Park, is located from campus and includes a football stadium, various sports facilities, and picnic facilities. The University's student association also owns 98 acres at the SAI Farm, located near Roadman Park, as well as 25-acre Vulcan Village Student Apartments. Cal U has a large virtual school.\n\nCalifornia University of Pennsylvania traces its roots back to 1852, when the fledgling community of California spent tax money and donations to create an academy for kindergarten through college-level courses. In 1864, it purchased and moved to what is now the center of its present location, and a year later the school received a charter to be a normal school. In 1874, the institution was renamed SouthWestern Normal School and in 1914 Pennsylvania bought the school, renaming it the California State Normal School and converted it into a two-year institute for training of elementary school teachers.\n\nIn 1928 the school restored a full four-year curriculum and was renamed the California State Teachers College. The programs offered were expanded over time and broadened beyond teacher training, and by 1959 the school's name was condensed to California State College. In 1962, the school added a graduate program. The school became a part of the State System of Higher Education on July 1, 1983. At the same time, it was granted university status under its current name, California University of Pennsylvania.\n\nCalifornia University has recently received state and private grants to rebuild the campus. Since 2000, six new residence halls have been completed, each with private bathrooms. A short drive or bus ride from campus, Cal U has apartment-like housing at the Vulcan Village complex.\n\nThe Elmo Natali Student Center, operated by the Student Association, Inc., is the main hub of student activities on campus. The student center hosts the student services offices, commuter center, theater, performance center, campus bookstore, the school's TV and Radio stations, CUTV and WCAL, as well as four distinctive dining areas. The Union was recently renovated as of the summer of 2015, planning to add new dining and study areas for Cal U students.\n\nThe Eberly Science and Technology Center opened in 1999, while the new Duda Hall (which replaced the original Duda World Cultures Building) opened in 2007. Steele Auditorium underwent a major renovation and expansion project, reopening in the Fall of 2007.\n\nThe Heron Hall recreation facility underwent significant renovation and expansion through the Fall and Spring semesters of 2008, opening to student and faculty use on Homecoming Day 2009. The new facility features an elevated running track, cardio equipment, free weight equipment, weight machines, two racquetball courts, a dance studio, two gymnasiums, and a swimming pool.\n\nBy far the largest project at the University was the building of the new Convocation Center. Opened in 2011, the building covers , while seating over 6,000. The building is the largest indoor venue between Morgantown, West Virginia and Pittsburgh. The building supplements as the University's current sporting venue, Hamer Hall.\n\nAs part of the Outreach Mission, the university has become a participant of the Smithsonian Institution Traveling Exhibition Service (SITES) program, a part of the Smithsonian that allows exhibits to travel to various locations across the United States. Outreach programs this provides unique educational experiences and opportunities for personal enrichment and professional development for area students and residents of all ages.\n\nCalifornia University Television (CUTV) is a student television station serving California University of Pennsylvania and over 100,000 households in the Monongahela River Valley. CUTV, like its sister campus radio station WCAL-FM, is owned and operated by the Student Association (SAI) and broadcasts from the Media Suite of the Natali Student Center on Cal U's main campus.\n\nIn addition to Final Cut Pro X digital editing suites, CUTV has a three-camera HD news, sports, and interview set. The station also has HD SD Card Field Cameras, a master control room and a mobile television truck, which is used by the station for production of Cal U Vulcan sporting events as well as High School Football Games of the week.\n\nCUTV produces programming throughout the school year. NewsCenter, CUTV's flagship program, broadcasts live news from the University and around the Mon Valley, as well as sports, entertainment and weather. NewsCenter airs live on Thursdays at 5:00 PM. CUTV Sports covers California University's sports teams, including Vulcan football, women's volleyball and men's and women's soccer in the fall, both men's and women's basketball and the Homecoming Hockey game in the winter, as well as baseball in the spring. CUTV Sports also covers select high school football games around the region in \"CUTV'S High School Football Game of the Week\".\n\nCUTV has won awards for its programming, including \"Station of the Year\" by the National Association of College Broadcasters (NACB), \"Best College TV News Broadcast\" — Eastern Region by the Society of Professional Journalists and several Telly Awards for sports, entertainment and magazine programs. They have also won awards for Best Play By Play, and Best Sports Program (High School Round-Up) at the Intercollegiate Broadcasting Systems Conference in NYC.\n\nCal U's nickname is the Vulcans, and its athletic teams compete at the NCAA Division II in the Pennsylvania State Athletic Conference (PSAC). The school has been one of the more successful in the PSAC.\n\nThe university has won a total of five national championships. In 2004, sophomore guard Megan Storck knocked down a deep three-pointer in the final minute of play, breaking open a tie ballgame to give Cal U its first women's national basketball title. Women's basketball won a second title by defeating California Baptist 86-69 in 2015, helped by a 21-0 first half run. Cal U's softball program won back to back championships in 1997 and 1998, including a 50–1 campaign during its first championship run. In 2008, the men's club ice hockey team captured an ACHA Division III national championship over San Diego State in a 7–3 finale capping off a 30–1 season record.\n\nThe Vulcans have also had success in women's volleyball, men's and women's soccer, men's basketball, women's tennis and baseball, each advancing to the NCAA Tournament this decade. The men's basketball team has had a pair of runs to the NCAA Division II Final Four (1992 and 1996), as well as advancing to the Elite Eight in 2008. The women's basketball team has made two consecutive trips to the Elite Eight (2008 and 2009). The volleyball program went to the Final Four in 2000 and the Sweet 16 twice (2004 and 2006), as well as the Elite Eight twice (2007 and 2008).\nThe women's tennis team advanced to the Division II Elite Eight in 2006.\nThe men's soccer team won the first PSAC Championship in program history in 2008. The women's soccer team has advanced to its first ever NCAA tournament in 2009, going on to win the Atlantic Regional title.\n\nThe Cal U football team has won five consecutive PSAC championships, beginning in 2005. The Vulcans also won in 2006, 2007, 2008, and 2009. The Vulcans football team ended the 2007 season ranked #4 in the NCAA Division II, won the PSAC Championship, and captured their first NCAA Regional title, Defeating Shepherd University by a score of 58-38. With that victory, Cal U advanced to the National Semifinal game, which was played at Hepner-Bailey Field at Adamson Stadium. The Vulcans lost in their first attempt to advance to a national championship, falling to Valdosta State (Georgia), 28-24. In 2008, the Vulcans again advanced won the Regional title, this time traveling to Bloomsburg and defeating the Huskies 27-24. Once again the Vulcans were rewarded with hosting rights for the National Semifinal. However, the Vulcans were defeated by Minnesota Duluth, thus ending their second try at a national title. The 2009 season saw the California Vulcans start with an 0-2 record. However, Cal U rebounded and qualified for the Division II Championships once again. California won their third consecutive Super Region 1 title, defeating West Liberty. However, the Vulcans had to go on the road for the first time for their next National Semifinal matchup. The Vulcans traveled to Maryville, Missouri to take on Division II power Northwest Missouri State. The Vulcans were defeated by the Bearcats by a score of 56–31. Prior to the start of the 2009 season, Cal U purchased a wave cam generally used on Monday Night Football and by purchasing this new technology Cal U was the only college team in the country to have one.\n\nVulcan athletes also demonstrate academic accomplishments. More than half of Cal U's 18 varsity athletic teams posted grade point averages above 3.00 during the 2006–07 academic year, and 74% of the nearly 400 student-athletes were named to the Athletic Director's Academic Honor Roll (3.00 GPA or better), including 36 with perfect 4.00 GPAs during at least one semester.\n\nCalifornia University of Pennsylvania also manages several athletic facilities. Hamer Hall is the home of Cal U's indoor teams, including volleyball, basketball and swimming, as well as excellent athletic training and weight-training facilities, locker rooms, athletic offices and classrooms. The football and track & field teams call Hepner-Bailey Field at Adamson Stadium, located a mile south of the main campus, home. The cross country, softball, soccer and tennis teams compete in the adjacent Roadman Park complex. CONSOL Energy Park in Washington, Pennsylvania, hosts Cal U's home baseball games annually. The golf teams, added to the lineup of varsity sports in 2005, play at nearby Cedarbrook Golf Course.\n\nBill Brown, who recently retired, was the head basketball coach for 20 years, with an overall record of 365-207. Jess Strom is the women's head basketball coach, with an overall record of 165-46, including a 2015 NCAA National Championship.\n\nCal U has a wide range of academic programs. The university has more than 150 undergraduate programs, 11 master's degree programs, along with certification, certificate, and licensure programs. In addition, Cal U has a Global Online program, which offers undergraduate and graduate degrees, as well as certificates.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893669", "title": "Humes", "text": "Humes\n\nHumes may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1893676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893676", "title": "Liane Hansen", "text": "Liane Hansen\n\nLiane Hansen (; born September 29, 1951, Worcester, Massachusetts) is an American journalist and radio personality who was senior host of the National Public Radio newsmagazine \"Weekend Edition Sunday\" until her retirement in May 2011. Her experience in broadcast journalism includes working as a reporter, producer, and host for local and national programs.\n\nHansen's first participation in NPR programming was in 1976 when she was a production assistant and substitute host for \"Fresh Air\". In 1979, she formally joined NPR as a production assistant for \"All Things Considered\". She hosted \"Weekend All Things Considered\" before hosting \"Performance Today\" and guest-hosting \"Fresh Air\". In November 1989, Hansen joined \"Weekend Edition Sunday\".\n\nHansen is the daughter of Edwin Hansen and Lois Hansen. The spelling of Hansen's first name came from that of Liane de Pougy (1869–1950). She was married to fellow NPR host Neal Conan with whom she has a son (Connor) and daughter (Casey). In April 2011, Hansen stated publicly that she and Conan were divorcing, in a parting described as \"amicable\".\n\nOn May 30, 2010 Hansen announced that she would retire from \"Weekend Edition Sunday\" at the end of May 2011, a time that coincided with the end of her contract with NPR and with the lease on her apartment in Washington, DC. She intended to spend her retirement on Delaware's ocean shore. Her last broadcast was May 29, 2011. After retiring, Hansen moved to Bethany Beach, Delaware, and helped launch Delaware's only public radio station, WDDE, and serves on its governing board.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893678", "title": "Du Toit Mountains", "text": "Du Toit Mountains\n\nThe Du Toit Mountains are a group of mountains about long and wide, to the south-west of the Wilson Mountains in southeastern Palmer Land, Antarctica. The mountains have peaks rising to and are bounded by Beaumont Glacier, Maury Glacier and Defant Glacier.\n\nThey were first photographed from the air by the U.S. Antarctic Service in 1940; rephotographed by the U.S. Navy, 1966–69, and mapped from the photographs by the U.S. Geological Survey. In association with the names of continental drift scientists grouped in this area, they were named by the Advisory Committee on Antarctic Names after Alexander du Toit, a South African geologist who was an early proponent of the theory of continental drift.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893683", "title": "Pummerer rearrangement", "text": "Pummerer rearrangement\n\nThe Pummerer rearrangement is an organic reaction whereby an alkyl sulfoxide rearranges to an α-acyloxy–thioether (monothioacetal-ester) in the presence of acetic anhydride.\n\nThe stoichiometry of the reaction is:\n\nAside from acetic anhydride, trifluoroacetic anhydride and trifluoromethanesulfonic anhydride have been employed as activators. Common nucleophiles besides acetates are arenes, alkenes, amides, and phenols.\n\nThe usage of α-acyl sulfoxides and Lewis acids, such as TiCl and SnCl, allow the reaction to proceed at lower temperatures (0 °C).\n\nThionyl chloride can be used in place of acetic anhydride to trigger the elimination for forming the electrophilic intermediate and supplying chloride as the nucleophile to give an α-chloro-thioether:\n\nOther anhydrides and acyl halides can give similar products. Inorganic acids can also give this reaction. This product can be converted to aldehyde or ketone by hydrolysis.\n\nThe mechanism of the Pummerer rearrangement begins with the acylation of the sulfoxide (resonance structures 1 and 2) by acetic anhydride to give 3, with acetate as byproduct. The acetate then acts as a catalyst to induce an elimination reaction to produce the cationic-thial structure 4, with acetic acid as byproduct. Finally, acetate attacks the thial to give the final product 5.\n\nThe activated thial electrophile can be trapped by various intramolecular and intermolecular nucleophiles to form carbon–carbon bonds and carbon–heteroatom bonds.\n\nThe intermediate is so electrophilic that even neutral nucleophiles can be used, including aromatic rings with electron donating groups such as 1,3-benzodioxole:\n\nIt is possible to perform the rearrangement using selenium in the place of sulfur.\n\nWhen a substituent on the α position can form a stable carbocation, this group rather than the α-hydrogen atom will eliminate in the intermediate step. This variation is called a Pummerer fragmentation. This reaction type is demonstrated below with a set of sulfoxides and trifluoroacetic anhydride (TFAA):\nThe organic group \"R2\" shown in the diagram above on the bottom right is the methyl violet carbocation, whose pK of 9.4 is not sufficient to out-compete loss of H and therefore a classical Pummerer rearrangement occurs. The reaction on the left is a fragmentation because the leaving group with pK = 23.7 is particularly stable.\n\nThe reaction was discovered by Rudolph Pummerer, who reported it in 1909.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893687", "title": "Churches of Christ in Australia", "text": "Churches of Christ in Australia\n\nThe Churches of Christ in Australia is a Christian denomination with British and American origins. It is part of the Restoration Movement and has historically been concerned with the restoration of New Testament patterns of Christianity as a means of encouraging unity among Christians.\n\nThe Churches of Christ in Australia are made up of State Conferences which are an association of independent churches who choose to relate at a state and federal level. Within this conference structure, individual churches are largely autonomous and operate on a congregational and democratic form of government. Leadership varies in local churches and where there are ministers or pastor they may or may not be formally ordained. Lay people usually play an important part in the worship, mission, governance and management of the church.\n\nKey features of the church's worship are the weekly celebration of the Lord's Supper presided over by a lay person and believer's baptism. This Christian movement claims to \"concentrate on the essential aspects of the Christian faith, allowing for a diversity of understanding with non-essentials.\" It is active in community services and supporting Christian unity, although this emphasis was stronger historically.\n\nChurches of Christ is one of the smaller Christian groups by affiliation in Australia. The 2001 Census showed 61,335 identifying, falling to 49,687 in the 2011 Census, which represents 0.2% of the population. This is compared with 61.1% of Australians who indicated religious affiliation with any Christian denomination. The National Church Life Survey 2001 showed that Churches of Christ had the highest attendance-to-affiliation percentage. This survey showed a regular estimated attendance of 45,100 (74%). Average weekly attendance figures in 2013 were 38 500, although a larger number of people would be expected to have a connection to a Church of Christ.\n\nKey features are the weekly celebration of the Lord's Supper presided over by a lay person and a commitment to believer's baptism.\n\nThe church is active in community services and the ecumenical movement.\n\nNational cooperative ministries include Global Mission Partners (formerly the Australian Churches of Christ Overseas Mission Board), Stirling Theological College, Indigenous Ministries Australia, the Defence Force Chaplains Committee, and Youth Vision Australia.\n\nThe denomination claims to \"concentrate on the essential aspects of the Christian faith, allowing for a diversity of understanding with non-essentials.\"\n\nTheological education and formation occurs at the:\n\n\nOrdination, which is bestowed by the State Conferences, is open to both men and women. \n\nIt is part of the Restoration Movement with historical influences from the USA and Britain, although it was the British influences that dominated in colonial Australia in the nineteenth century. Congregations in South Australia, Victoria and New South Wales were established at the initiative of individuals who travelled to these colonies to pursue employment opportunities. Elsewhere in Australia Churches of Christ congregations were established as missionary initiatives: Tasmania in the 1870s, Queensland in 1882 and Western Australia in 1891. In the beginning Churches of Christ in Australia (known as 'Disciples' until the 1860s) relied heavily on lay ministers who tended to preach in a dry and reasoning manner, maintained congregational autonomy under the governance of elders, strictly observed what they believed were New Testament patterns (especially weekly Lord's Supper and baptism by immersion), and took a 'common sense' approach to reading the Bible. However, practices of ministry, structures of governance, worship and theology have all changed over time and this has raised issues of identity for the Churches of Christ in Australia. The Churches of Christ in Australia are more similar to the Christian Church in the United States (most Churches of Christ in the United States sing \"a capella\", whereas most Churches of Christ in Australia use musical instruments, as does the Christian Church in the United States).\n\nChurches of Christ in Victoria began with the arrival of the Ingram and Picton families from England who established regular meetings in Prahran and officially constituted a congregation in 1855. By 1861 there were 12 congregations with a total of 230 members. Seeking to increase the membership, the congregations combined to support their first full-time evangelist, Isaac Mermelstein, a converted Jew from Kiev. He travelled to Chiltern on the north-east Victorian goldfields in 1861 where he officiated at a number of baptisms. However, Mermelstein faded from view in the history of Churches of Christ as he disagreed with the leadership over the nature of baptism. Baptism by immersion on confession of faith was considered essential for salvation, but Mermelstein appears to have also been convinced of the validity of Holy Spirit baptism - something which the then deeply rationalist Churches of Christ could not abide. The church experienced some growth with the evangelism of T.H. Milner, visiting from Scotland in 1862, and then significant growth with the preaching of Henry S. Earl who arrived from the USA in 1864 as the first of a number of American preachers who influenced Churches of Christ in Victoria. Despite the presence of some American preachers, the denomination understood itself to be essentially British and this was reflected in its correspondence with British journals such as the \"British Millennial Harbinger\". In the 1880s Antoinette Thurgood established a ministry for and by women in Victoria. Initially called the Sisters' Conference, it was later known as Christian Women's Fellowship. The first woman to be appointed to pastoral ministry (Hawthorne Church of Christ, Qld.) was Violet Callanan in 1931 who had recently completed a certificate in mission studies at the College of the Bible in Glen Iris, Melbourne, and the first woman to be ordained was Alice Barton Saunders in 1946 (ordination was introduced in the 1940s), but the first women to be \"ordained and minister\" in Churches of Christ in Victoria (and Australia) were Pam Bowers and Robyn Haskell in 1973. Toward the end of the nineteenth century the denomination established a periodical, \"The Australian Christian\", based in Victoria, which carried the news and opinion of the churches and their members for the next century. In the early twentieth century Churches of Christ in Victoria developed significantly as a denomination, establishing institutional bodies and programs to further its mission. These included the establishment of a national training college for ministers located in Victoria, the College of the Bible (now Stirling Theological College), funds for chapel building, organised evangelism programs, cooperative ecumenical work, and a social services department. Each of these activities remain vital to the Churches of Christ in Victoria in the twenty-first century.\n\nA small group met in Albion, Brisbane in 1871, however it was not until 1 August 1882 that C.M. Fischer and T Geraghty established the first Church of Christ in Queensland at the Zillman Waterholes (now Zillmere, Queensland).\nThe Ann Street Church of Christ was established in 1883 and moved into its present building in Brisbane's central business district in 1898.\n\nIn March 1839, Robert Lawrie and his fiancée Margaret Mailey; Archibald Greenshields and Marion Greenshields (née Lawrie) and their daughter Jane aged 2; Thomas Neill and family; all of Kilmarnock and nearby Newmilns, applied on the same day with the same agent for free passage to South Australia, departing London 21 May 1839 on the ship \"Recovery\" and arriving in September 1839.\nIn 1836, John Lawrie, older brother to the above-mentioned Lawries, had joined the Kilmarnock Scotch Baptist church, believing it to be the \"true\" church. But by 1837 John had become so influenced by the writings of Alexander Campbell that he commenced Disciples meetings at Newmilns. All the above had been influenced by the Restoration movement; the Lawries (including James) and the Greenshields accepting its Biblical teaching.\nThe coming to South Australia was due to Andrew Warnock of Paisley. Warnock was a manufacturer, but like other businessmen in Glasgow he was keen to invest in the new free colony of South Australia. Property was purchased for his son John Warnock, but as he knew nothing about farming, James Lawrie and William Wilson were employed to establish it. They left aboard the ship \"Ariadne\" in April 1839. The journey was long and hazardous: there were 223 passengers crowded onto the ship, and apart from all the dangers of illness, of storms, of rounding the Cape of Good Hope, a fire broke out on ship. Finally, in August 1839 their party, which included more persons than those listed above, arrived and were given or attained positions in the colony.\n\nThomas Neill had been in business as a grocer in Kilmarnock and before that he had been a farm servant. It was intended that he should work on the Warnock property but on arrival it was discovered that the dry climate required many more acres to support a family than it did in Scotland. Fortunately for him he was immediately given a job as storekeeper with the South Australian Company by the manager, his old friend David McLaren. Neill had relations in Glasgow, Paisley and Kilmarnock. The Neills attended the Scotch Baptist church, built in Hindley Street by the Methodists then abandoned for their new building in Gawler Place.\nMcLaren was the unofficial pastor, and later, Thomas, his wife Jean, and Agnes their daughter were listed as members in 1844 when the Scotch Baptists were meeting in Morphett Street.\n\nUpon arrival, James Lawrie went immediately south to Mertin Farm at Noarlunga; land that adjoins the Onkaparinga River. He was later joined by his brother Robert. William Wilson looked after another section of Mertin Farm.\nAnother Scotch Baptist family from Glasgow arrived aboard \"Glenswilly \" in September 1839, the day before the \"Recovery\". This was the Wauchope family, John, his wife and two sons, George and William. They settled on the property named Allandale in the Morphett Vale area. William worked for James and Robert on Mertin Farm. The major part of Mertin Farm lay not far below the Craig and Murray properties on the Onkaparinga River.\nIn 1841 when David McLaren returned to England, the Adelaide congregation split over the question of \"open communion.\" A new group was formed at North Adelaide with Samuel Gill as minister. Alexander Murray with seven others were dismissed to form a church at Noarlunga.\n\nIt is probable that the Noarlunga group consisted of Alexander and Jane Murray; James and Janet Craig; Archibald and Marion Greenshields; Robert and Margaret Lawrie; James Lawrie and William Wilson. Most of the above were connected through family relationship. This group could very well have been the source of some of Campbell's writings referred to as being in the Adelaide Scotch Baptist congregation and perhaps originally coming from John Lawrie.\nIn March 1841 John Warnock arrived aboard \"John Cooper\" from Greenock, to take over Mertin Farm. The Lawrie brothers worked for Warnock for a time while he settled into the management of the farm, then moved out.\nJames Craig and Alexander Murray, Scotch Baptists from Glasgow, arrived with their families in the ship \"India\", in February 1840. They moved on to properties south of Adelaide. In October 1840 Craig bought a second section not far from his home property and made arrangements for Archibald Greenshields to manage it.\n\nIn mid-1842 James Craig, caught in the financial crisis, was forced to sell the property that was managed by Greenshields. Greenshields became a labourer. Alexander Murray was able to survive for a time by accepting Robert Lawrie into joint occupancy of his property.\n\nAlthough the financial crisis of the colony had changed the fortunes of this little group, they managed, for a time, to remain in close proximity with each other. It is likely that the little southern congregation existed up until 1845 when Murray left for England and the Lawries shifted to Lonyunga in the Myponga Hills. It wasn't long after this that John Lawrie became concerned about the brethren \"scattered over the wild prairie.\" It was then that Lawrie persuaded his fellow elder, John Aird, to come to S.A. to take charge of the \"little flock\" in the south.\nJohn Aird and John Watson arrived in S.A. with their families on the ship \"Lady McNaughton/Lady MacNaghten\", in October 1847. They met with the brethren at Franklin Street and then travelled to Noarlunga where Aird called his fellow restorationists together. They celebrated the Lord's Supper on October 31 and formed into a church on 7 November 1847.\n\nThomas Magarey arrived in South Australia via New Zealand in 1845. He moved to Noarlunga after he was married to Elizabeth Verco on 10 March 1848. He worked in the local flour mill at the Horseshoe and for the 18 months to two years they were at Noarlunga, worshipped with the little group of disciples led by John Aird. Others in the congregation were: Watsons, Browns, Greenshields, Robert Lawries and Scotts. At the beginning of 1850, two years later, the Magareys returned to Hindmarsh, where Magarey wrote glowingly of the time spent with John Aird and the church at McLaren Vale.\n\nAlexander Lawrie came to live in the Myponga Hills in 1851. In 1855 he married Jane Watson, daughter of John Watson. John Lawrie arrived in the Myponga Hills November 1853. His wife and family joined him in November 1855.\n\nThe church in the south had close links with the disciples in Adelaide. James Craig and John Brown represented the McLaren Vale church at the opening of the Hindmarsh church, 10 June 1855.\nSubscribers from the McLaren Vale church to the Grote Street building fund were: Aird, Brown, Craig, Jones, Greenshields, John Lawrie, Robert Lawrie, Watson, Scott. The Grote Street church building of the Christian Disciples was opened in December 1856.\nAs a number of families lived in the Myponga Hills John Lawrie decided mid 1856 they should meet locally as the Willunga congregation.\n\nMembers of the Willunga church appointed as Trustees of the Grote Street church on 27 June 1856:- John Lawrie and James Craig. John pointed out difficulties of country members acting as Trustees and so at a meeting on August 30, 1856, the previous country appointments were cancelled and Adelaide members appointed in place of those from Willunga and Milang.\nLate in 1857, John, Robert, Alexander Lawrie and families, sold their properties and moved north to farm the land at Alma Plains. Archibald Greenshields followed 3 or 4 years later and the Aird family later still. \nA chapel was built at Alma Plains in 1862 which doubled as a school room. The chapel soon became too small and a new Christian Disciples chapel was built 10 years later. T. J. Gore of Norwood and John Lawrie of Alma conducted the opening services to a large congregation. The following Monday some three or four hundred gathered for tea, after which John Lawrie presided over a meeting at which some five hundred heard addresses by Kidner, Colbourne, Woolcock, and Gore.\n\nThe State Conferences are: Victoria and Tasmania, New South Wales, South Australia and the Northern Territory, Queensland, Western Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory.\n\nThe Churches of Christ Provident Fund was established to support paid ministers. Most of its role has been handed over to the non-denominational Christian Super fund.\n\n\nIn Australia there are at least four distinct groups known as \"Churches of Christ\". As well as this organisation, there are also the independent Christian Churches/Churches of Christ, the International Churches of Christ, and the non-denominational Churches of Christ.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893690", "title": "Ralph Samuelson", "text": "Ralph Samuelson\n\nRalph Wilford Samuelson (July 3, 1903–August 28, 1977) was the inventor of water skiing, which he first performed in the summer of 1922 in Lake City, Minnesota, just before his 19th birthday. Samuelson was already skilled at aquaplaning—standing on a board while being pulled by a powerboat—but he hoped to create something like snow skiing on the water. Lake Pepin, a wide portion of the Mississippi River between Minnesota and Wisconsin, was the venue for his experiments.\nSamuelson did not patent his invention, nor was his work sufficiently publicized at the time to prevent U.S. Patent 1,559,390 for water skis from being subsequently issued, on October 27, 1925, to prolific inventor Fred Waller of Huntington, New York. Waller marketed his product as \"Dolphin Akwa-Skees.\" Waller later invented the Cinema wide-screen motion picture system, and in 1952's \"This is Cinerama,\" the first feature film released in the panoramic format, water skiing at Cypress Gardens, Florida, was a prominently-featured subject. Famed journalist Lowell Thomas was an early investor in Cinerama, and in his introduction to the book \"Water Skiing\" (1958, Prentice-Hall), by Dick Pope, Sr., creator of Cypress Gardens, Thomas described the connection between Waller and water skiing's prominence as a subject in the motion picture. In several instances in the book, Pope reiterates—erroneously, we now know—that Waller was the first to invent water skis.\n\nSamuelson's early attempts included using staves from wooden barrels and snow skis before he created new skis made of pine boards long and 9 inches wide (240 × 23 cm). He bent up the front tips after softening the wood by boiling them in his mother's copper kettle. Gaining confidence on the water, he began jumping wakes, but broke the original skis (the remains of which were believed to be found on a beach on Pepin) in one landing. His slightly-modified second pair still exists; today they are at the Lake City Chamber of Commerce, in Lake City, Minnesota.\n\nSamuelson first succeeded on June 28 by starting off wearing skis while standing on top of an aquaplane board, and then slipping one foot and then the other into the water. \nHe attracted a lot of attention locally in the following days and weeks. On July 8, 1925, Samuelson went on to perform the first ski jump on water. He fell flat in his first attempt, but soon greased the launch platform with lard and succeeded on the second try. Also that year, he became the first speed skier as he found himself racing across the water at , pulled by a Curtiss flying boat that flew just above the waves.\n\nIn his later years, Samuelson moved to Pine Island, Minnesota where he was a turkey farmer. He was a guest of honor at a water skiing 50th anniversary in 1972, and was inducted into the Water Ski Hall of Fame on January 22, 1977. When he returned to Minnesota, he began to suffer the effects of cancer, and died in Pine Island on August 28, 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893691", "title": "Faridoon", "text": "Faridoon\n\nFaridoon may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1893696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893696", "title": "Shinden-zukuri", "text": "Shinden-zukuri\n\nShinden-zukuri (寝殿造) refers to the style of domestic architecture developed for palatial or aristocratic mansions built in Heian-kyō (平安京, today's Kyoto) in the Heian period (794–1185), especially in 10th century Japan.\n\n\"Shinden-zukuri\" developed into \"shoin-zukuri\" and \"sukiya-zukuri\" (detached teahouse type architecture). During the Kamakura period, it developed into \"buke-zukuri\" (武家造 housing for a military family).\n\nThe main characteristics of the \"shinden-zukuri\" are a special symmetry of the group of buildings and undeveloped space between them. \n\nA mansion was usually set on a one square. The main building, the , is on the central north–south axis and faces south on an open courtyard. Two subsidiary buildings, the , are built to the right and left of the \"shinden\", both running east–west. The \"tai-no-ya\" and the \"shinden\" are connected by two corridors called respectively \"sukiwatadono\" (透渡殿) and \"watadono\" (渡殿). A \"chūmon-rō\" (中門廊, central gate corridor) at the half-way points of the two corridors lead to a south courtyard, where many ceremonies were celebrated. From the \"watadono\", narrow corridors extend south and end in \"tsuridono\", small pavilions that travel in a U-shape around the courtyard. Wealthier aristocrats built more buildings behind the \"shinden\" and \"tai-no-ya\".\n\nThe room at the core of the \"shinden\" (\"moya\") is surrounded by a (one ken wide) roofed aisle called \"hisashi\". The \"moya\" is one big space partitioned by portable screens (see List of partitions of traditional Japanese architecture). Guests and residents of the house are seated on mats, laid out separately on a polished wooden floor. As the style developed, the moya became a formal, public space, and the hisashi was divided into private spaces. Since the \"shinden-zukuri\"-style house flourished during the Heian period, houses tended to be furnished and adorned with characteristic art of the era.\n\nIn front of the \"moya\" across the courtyard is a garden with a pond. Water runs from a stream (\"yarimizu\" 遣水) into a large pond to the south of the courtyard. The pond had islets and bridges combined with mountain shapes, trees, and rocks aimed at creating the feeling of being in the land of the Amida Buddha.\n\nOfficers and guards lived by the east gates.\n\nThe \"buke-zukuri\" was the style of houses built for military families. It was similar in structure to the regular \"shinden-zukuri\" with a few room changes to accommodate the differences between the aristocratic family and the military family. During the time when military families rose in power over the aristocrats, living quarters changed. Each lord had to build extra space in order to keep his soldiers around him at all times with their weapons within reach on the grounds in case of a sudden attack. To help guard against these attacks, a \"yagura\" or tower was built and torches were scattered around the gardens so they could be lit as quickly as possible.\n\nWith the increase of people living under the same roof, extra rooms called \"hiro-bisashi\" (\"spacious room under the eaves\") were built grouped around the \"shinden\". The \"zensho\" (膳所 kitchen) was also built bigger in order to accommodate the required people needed to cook all the food for the soldiers and members of the household.\n\nUnlike the \"shinden-zukuri\", \"buke-zukuri\" homes were simple and practical, keeping away from the submersion into art and beauty that led to the downfall of the Heian court. Rooms characteristic of a \"buke-zukuri\" home are as follows:\n\nThe \"buke-zukuri\" style changed throughout the Kamakura and Muromachi periods, and over times the rooms in a \"buke-zukuri\" style house decreased as \"daimyōs\" started to use castles.\n\nThere are no remaining original examples of \"Shinden-zukuri\"-style homes, however some current structures follow the same styles and designs:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893699", "title": "New Hebrides franc", "text": "New Hebrides franc\n\nThe Franc was the currency of the Anglo-French Condominium of the Pacific island group of the New Hebrides (which became Vanuatu in 1980). It circulated alongside British and later Australian currency. The New Hebrides franc was nominally divided into 100 Centimes, although the smallest denomination was the 1 franc. Between 1945 and 1969, it was part of the CFP franc.\n\nUntil World War II, the New Hebrides used the French franc and the British and Australian pounds. In 1941, the Free French forces introduced paper money for circulation on the New Hebrides. In 1945, the CFP franc was introduced to insulate France's Pacific colonies from the devaluation of the French franc and the New Hebrides used a combination of New Caledonian franc coins and locally issued notes.\n\nIn 1949, the CFP franc's relationship to the French franc stabilized at 5.5 French francs = 1 CFP franc. From 1959, the exchange rate to the Australian pound was almost exactly 200 francs = 1 pound. This rate became 100 francs = 1 Australian dollar in 1966 when the dollar was introduced. The Australian dollar circulated alongside the local currency.\n\nFrom 1966, coins were produced in the name of the New Hebrides. In 1969, the New Hebrides franc broke away from the CFP franc and maintained the relationship with the Australian dollar of 100 francs = 1 dollar until 1973. In 1981, the franc was replaced at par by the vatu following independence as Vanuatu. At the same time, the Australian dollar ceased to officially circulate.\n\nIn 1966, silver 100 franc coins were introduced. These were followed by nickel 10 and 20 francs in 1967, nickel-brass 1, 2 and 5 francs in 1970 and nickel 50 francs in 1972. Only the nickel coins (10, 20, and 50 francs) were the same size, composition, and obverse as the corresponding French Polynesian and New Caledonian coins.\n\nThe overall design has not changed since the introduction of the New Hebrides franc coins. The only notable change is the addition of \"I.E.O.M\" (Institut d'émission d'Outre-Mer) in 1973.\n\nThe first New Hebridean banknote was issued in 1921, a 25 franc note of the \"Comptoirs Français des Nouvelles Hébrides\" (French Trading Posts of the New Hebrides) dated 22 août (August) 1921. This is a very rare note. The New Hebrides began issuing banknotes again in 1941. These were overprints on New Caledonian banknotes (issued by the \"Banque de l'Indochine\"), in denominations of 5, 20, 100, 500 and 1000 francs. The same denominations were issued in 1943 by the Free French \"Services Nationaux Français des Nouvelles Hébrides\".\n\nIn 1965, the \"Institut d'Emission d'Outre-Mer\" took over the issuance of paper money on the New Hebrides and introduced notes in denominations of 100, 500 and 1000 francs between 1965 and 1972. Unlike the French Polynesian and New Caledonian counterparts, New Hebrides never had a 5000 franc note.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893705", "title": "Tendency film", "text": "Tendency film\n\nA is a name given to the socially conscious, left-leaning films produced in Japan during the 1920s and 1930s. These were in general produced by the commercial studios, in contrast to the politically radical independent films of the Proletarian Film League of Japan. However, with the rise of Japanese militarism in the 1930s, tendency films (as well as any works that were not supportive of the war effort in China and the Pacific) were frowned upon or outright censored.\n\nDaisuke Itō's \"jidaigeki\" include some well known tendency films, such as 1929's \"Man-Slashing, Horse-Piercing Sword\". Tomu Uchida's \"A Living Puppet\" and Kenji Mizoguchi's \"Metropolitan Symphony\" (both 1929) were also tendency films, and Shigeyoshi Suzuki's tendency film \"What Made Her Do It?\" was one of the big hits of 1930.\n"}
{"id": "1893726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893726", "title": "Free Hat", "text": "Free Hat\n\n\"Free Hat\" is episode 88 of the animated series \"South Park\". It originally aired on July 10, 2002.\n\nIn the episode, the boys find out that their favorite movies are being changed, re-released and ruined in the process. In response, they form a club to \"Save Films from their Directors.\" Their goal is to stop certain famous authors from wrecking any more of their original masterpieces. They also cater to a group who demand a trailer-trash toddler murderer be freed.\n\nMuch of the plot parodies \"Raiders of the Lost Ark.\" The episode ridicules Lucasfilm's digital altering of George Lucas' original \"Star Wars\" trilogy and Steven Spielberg's \"E.T.\". The episode also criticizes remake movies.\n\nThe episode was written by series co-creator Trey Parker and is rated TV-MA in the United States.\n\nKyle, Stan, Cartman and Tweek get angry about Steven Spielberg and George Lucas' habit of altering their films with each \"re-re-re-release\" to make them more family-friendly or politically correct. They decide to form an organization to protect classic movies from changes. Cartman writes \"Free Hat\" on the advertising poster in the belief that freebies are necessary to attract people. However, the crowd mistakenly thinks the rally is to free Hat McCullough, a convicted baby killer they believe is innocent.\n\nThe crowd focuses on persuading the governor to free Hat, while the boys appear on \"Nightline\" to explain their group's motives. Steven Spielberg and George Lucas appear on the show, and when the boys mention changing \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", the two directors quickly decide this is a great idea. Determined to stop them, the boys sneak into Lucas' house and steal the master print for the film, but are caught by him. Lucas calls the police, and the boys attempt to convince him to turn away Spielberg. As their attempts begin to sway him, Spielberg arrives flanked by guards and Lucas relents and gives Spielberg the film. The boys are taken prisoner to be guests at the film's premiere, but Tweek escapes. At the premiere is a trailer for a remastered version of \"South Park\"s pilot episode.\n\nBack at the club, Tweek alerts everybody else to the situation at hand, but the crowd remains obsessed with Hat McCullough. Meanwhile, Spielberg and Lucas, now joined by Francis Ford Coppola, start making their way to the premiere in a convoy with the film's print enclosed in an ark being carried. Tweek ambushes the convoy wielding a bazooka and threatens to blow it up unless the boys are released. The negotiation ends when Spielberg invites Tweek to \"blow it back to God,\" but reminds him all his life has been in pursuit of seeing a great film, and thanks to the new \"effects beyond your wildest dreams\" he wants to see it screened just as much as Spielberg does. Tweek pauses and is captured as he hesitates. At the premiere, Spielberg reveals his plan to destroy the original film afterwards, and the film begins. Knowing it will be horrible the boys look away while the audience watches. Parodying the climax of the actual Raiders of the Lost Ark, the altered version kills the audience. Coppola's head shrivels up, Lucas' face is melted off his skull and Spielberg's head explodes. When there is finally silence, the kids find themselves tie-free and open their eyes. Cartman observes, \"That new version must've sucked balls.\"\n\nBack in South Park, the boys think that they are going to be congratulated for stopping Spielberg and Lucas. However, the boys are congratulated for getting Hat released from prison instead. Despite the fact that Hat is obviously deranged and asks for a baby, the crowd cheers for him and presents him with one. As the baby tries desperately to escape Hat, Tweek looks at the now offscreen Hat and shouts, \"Oh, God!,\" implying that Hat killed the baby. The boys say that what they have done might not matter now, but will matter later. When Tweek asks what if someone else tries to change the movie, Stan answers that it is \"somewhere safe. Somewhere where...nobody will ever find it.\" The episode ends, referencing \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", with a shot of an old man placing the original prints inside a box, which he then places inside a warehouse labeled \"Red Cross 9/11 Relief Funds.\"\n\nIn the DVD commentary, the creators say that they think of classic films as art, and that art should not be changed to be politically correct. Stone comes out as \"officially over Star Wars.\" Steven Spielberg wrote to Parker and Stone, saying he felt like he had \"finally arrived now that he's one of the villains of South Park.\" Parker said that if he had anything to do with Spielberg not editing \"Raiders of the Lost Ark\", he was \"just as proud of that as wearing a dress to the Academy Awards.\"\n\n\"Free Hat,\" along with the sixteen other episodes from \"South Park\"'s sixth season, were released on a three-disc DVD set in the United States on October 11, 2005. The sets included brief audio commentaries by Parker and Stone for each episode. IGN gave the season a rating of 9/10.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893728", "title": "Pictet–Spengler reaction", "text": "Pictet–Spengler reaction\n\nThe Pictet–Spengler reaction is a chemical reaction in which a β-arylethylamine undergoes condensation with an aldehyde or ketone followed by ring closure. The reaction was first discovered in 1911 by Amé Pictet and Theodor Spengler (February 22, 1886 - August 18, 1965). Traditionally an acidic catalyst in protic solvent was employed with heating, however the reaction has been shown to work in aprotic media in superior yields and sometimes without acid catalysis. The Pictet–Spengler reaction can be considered a special case of the Mannich reaction, which follows a similar reaction pathway. The driving force for this reaction is the electrophilicity of the iminium ion generated from the condensation of the aldehyde and amine under acid conditions. This explains the need for an acid catalyst in most cases, as the imine is not electrophilic enough for ring closure but the iminium ion is capable of undergoing the reaction.\n\nThe Pictet-Spengler reaction is widespread in both industry and biosynthesis. It has remained an important reaction in the fields of alkaloid and organic synthesis since its inception, where it has been employed in the development of many beta-carbolines. Natural Pictet-Spengler reaction typically an employ enzyme, such as strictosidine synthase. Pictet-Spengler products can be isolated from many products initially derived from nature, including foodstuffs such as soy sauce and ketchup. In such cases it is common to find the amino acid tryptophan and various aldoses used as the biological feedstock.\n\nNucleophilic aromatic rings such as indole or pyrrole give products in high yields and mild conditions, while less nucleophilic aromatic rings such as a phenyl group give poorer yields or require higher temperatures and strong acid. The original Pictet–Spengler reaction was the reaction of phenethylamine and dimethoxymethane, catalysed by hydrochloric acid forming a tetrahydroisoquinoline.\n\nThe Pictet–Spengler reaction has been applied to solid-phase combinatorial chemistry with great success.\n\nAn analogous reaction with an aryl-β-ethanol is called oxa-Pictet–Spengler reaction\n\nThe reaction mechanism occurs by initial formation of an iminium ion (2) followed by electrophilic addition at the 3-position, in accordance with the expected nucleophilicity of indoles, to give the spirocycle 3. After migration of the best migrating group, deprotonation gives the product (5).\n\nReplacing an indole with a 3,4-dimethoxyphenyl group give the reaction named the Pictet–Spengler tetrahydroisoquinoline synthesis. Reaction conditions are generally harsher than the indole variant, and require refluxing conditions with strong acids like hydrochloric acid, trifluoroacetic acid or superacids.\nInstead of catalyzing the Pictet-Spengler cyclization with strong acid, one can acylate the iminium ion forming the intermediate \"N\"-acyliminium ion. The \"N\"-acyliminium ion is a very powerful electrophile and most aromatic ring systems will cyclize under mild conditions with good yields.\n\nTadalafil is synthesized via the \"N\"-acyliminium Pictet–Spengler reaction. This reaction can also be catalyzed by AuCl and AgOTf.\n\nWhen the Pictet–Spengler reaction is performed with an aldehyde other than formaldehyde, a new chiral center is created. Several substrate- or auxiliary-controlled diastereoselective Pictet–Spengler reactions have been developed. Additionally, List \"et al.\" have published a chiral Brønsted acid that catalyzes asymmetric Pictet–Spengler reactions.\n\nTryptophans: diastereocontrolled reaction\nThe reaction of enantiopure tryptophan or its short-chain alkylesters leads to 1,2,3,4-tetrahydro-\"β\"-carbolines in which a new chiral center at C-1 adopts either a \"cis\" or \"trans\" configuration towards the C-3 carboxyl group. The \"cis\" conduction is kinetically controlled, i.e. it is performed at lower temperatures. At higher temperatures the reaction becomes reversible and usually favours racemisation. 1,3-\"trans\" dominated products can be obtained with \"N\"-benzylated tryptophans, which are accessible by reductive amination. The benzyl group can be removed hydrogenolytically afterwards. As a rough rule, C NMR signals for C1 and C3 are downfield shifted in \"cis\" products relative to \"trans\" products (see steric compression effect).\n\n"}
{"id": "1893732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893732", "title": "Hylda Baker", "text": "Hylda Baker\n\nHylda Baker (4 February 1905 – 1 May 1986) was an English comedienne, actress and music hall performer. Born and brought up in Farnworth, Lancashire, she is perhaps most well known for her role as Nellie Pledge in the ITV sitcom \"Nearest and Dearest\" (1968–1973) and for her role in the 1960 film \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\".\n\nBaker was born in Farnworth, Lancashire, the first of seven children. Her father, Harold Baker, was a painter and signwriter, who also worked part-time in the music halls as a comedian. At ten, Baker made her debut at the Opera House, Tunbridge Wells, and continued to tour as a single variety act—singing, dancing and performing impersonations. By 14, she had started writing, producing and performing her own shows. Her most famous stage act was as a gossip from the North of England, with a silent, sullen companion named \"Big Cynthia\", almost always played by a man in drag (most famously by Victor Graham, and last by Matthew Kelly). Her act was full of malapropisms and catchphrases that had become part of her public persona, the most famous of which were \"She knows, y'know!\" and, when asked the time \"It's quarter past ... I must get a little hand put on this watch.\"\n\nFellow comedian Victoria Wood described her comedic talent as \"peculiarly Northern\".\n\nBaker came to national attention in BBC television's \"The Good Old Days\" in 1955. This led to her television series, \"Be Soon\" (named after another of her catchphrases), in 1957 and a supporting part in the sitcom \"Our House\" in 1960, followed by her own sitcom, \"The Best of Friends\", in 1963.\n\nShe also appeared in films, including Karel Reisz's \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\" (1960), \"Up the Junction\" (1968) and the film version of Lionel Bart's musical \"Oliver!\" (1968). Reisz had seen her performing her sketches at the Chiswick Empire theatre. She had a starring role in the 1962 low-budget black-and-white British comedy film \"She Knows Y'Know\". Taking its title from her most famous catch-phrase, it is described by the BFI as a \"low life comedy, unfolded against an industrial town backdrop\". The film was restored by Blackpool resident Eurwyn Jones who negotiated use of the print, tracked down copyright holders to ensure it could be shared with fans across the world, and teamed up with Renown Pictures, who restore classic movies, putting the print through modern technology to present a crystal clear picture quality and sound.\n\nBaker's most famous role was as Nellie Pledge in the Granada Television comedy series \"Nearest and Dearest\" (1968–73). Playing her brother Eli was the comedian Jimmy Jewel and the series was centred on their characters' love-hate relationship as they tried to run their small family business, \"Pledge's Purer Pickles\". As they bickered onscreen and traded insults such as \"knocked-kneed knackered old nosebag\" and \"big girl's blouse\", the insults continued offscreen as the two disliked each other intensely and their arguments became showbiz legend. A film version of the series was made by Hammer Films in 1972 (the same year she was a subject of \"This Is Your Life\" when she was surprised by Eamonn Andrews.). Later in the series, Baker began having trouble remembering her lines and had to rely on cue cards and prompts from her co star Madge Hindle, who would whisper her next line to her.\n\nBaker played a virtually identical role in the LWT comedy series \"Not On Your Nellie\" (1974–75). In this series she played Nellie Pickersgill, who moves to London from the North to run her ailing father's pub. However the series was short-lived and, by this time, Baker was again finding it difficult to remember her lines and was also refusing to attend rehearsals. After suing the production company for an on-set injury in which she broke her leg (after slipping on beer on the set), the series ended, as did her television acting career.\n\nBaker recreated her variety act in an episode of the BBC series \"The Good Old Days\" in 1976.\n\nIn an unusual coda to her musical career, she teamed with Arthur Mullard in 1978 to record a comedy version of \"You're the One That I Want\" from the film \"Grease\". Baker and Mullard, then aged 73 and 68, dressed in wigs and costumes similar to the John Travolta and Olivia Newton-John characters from \"Grease\" and appeared on the BBC show \"Top of the Pops\" and the Granada Television music show for children \"Get It Together\". The pair recorded an album of pop covers entitled \"Band on the Trot\".\n\nHer final television appearance came the same year in an episode of the BBC arts documentary show \"Omnibus\" about comedians, broadcast on 28 December 1978.\n\nBaker suffered two ectopic pregnancies which led in part to the breakdown of her marriage.\n\nOn Christmas Eve 1961, Baker was hit by a passing car that mounted the pavement in London's Charing Cross Road, not far from her then home at Ridgmount Gardens in Holborn. Left with a broken toe and bruising, Baker claimed she was unable to work for 34 weeks and that the accident had left her with \"a waddle\". She sued the driver of the vehicle for damages and loss of earnings. Baker refused a settlement offer of £4,000 and took the matter to the High Court where she was initially awarded £2,921 in 1964, but this was increased to £4,073 (plus costs) at an appeal hearing in 1965.\n\nIn 1971, Baker's chauffeur Noel Moncaster absconded with £2,500 of her cash. Moncaster was arrested three months later, by which time only £45 of the money remained, after he had used it to travel to France, Spain and Africa. At his trial, Blackpool Magistrates ordered Moncaster to pay Baker £400 (the maximum the magistrates could award) and committed him for later sentencing by Blackpool's quarter session court.\n\nBaker lived the life of a star, dressing in furs and keeping monkeys as pets. She annoyed her neighbours with loud parties at her Blackpool home. In her 70s she developed Alzheimer's disease and in 1981 she moved to Brinsworth House, the retirement home for performers, in Twickenham, London. In 1984, she moved to a psychiatric hospital in Epsom, Surrey, where she died two years later, aged 81, from bronchial pneumonia.\n\nActress Jean Fergusson, known for appearances in \"Last of the Summer Wine\", wrote a biography and devised and starred in a tribute show, \"She Knows Y' Know!\", at London's Vaudeville Theatre in 1997. The show won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Entertainment in 1998.\n\nAlison Steadman played Baker in the play \"Our Hylda\" by Martyn Hesford, first broadcast on BBC Radio 4 on 15 June 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893737", "title": "The Penny Magazine", "text": "The Penny Magazine\n\nThe Penny Magazine was an illustrated British magazine aimed at the working class, published every Saturday from 31 March 1832 to 31 October 1845. Charles Knight created it for the Society for the Diffusion of Useful Knowledge in response to \"Chambers's Edinburgh Journal\", which started two months earlier. Sold for only a penny and illustrated with wood-engravings, it was an expensive enterprise that could only be supported by very large circulation. Though initially very successful—with a circulation of 200,000 in the first year—it proved too dry and too Whiggish to appeal to the working-class audience it needed to be financially viable. Its competitor—which included a weekly short story—grew more slowly, but lasted much longer.\n\nDuring the first few years of publication \"The Penny Magazine\" was highly successful in building an audience selling over 200,000 copies in 1832 with an estimation of nearly one million readers that year and easily outselling other periodicals such as the \"Edinburgh Journal\" and \"The Saturday Magazine\".\n\nThere were several contributing factors behind this early success for \"The Penny Magazine\". Firstly the price, as being sold for 1\"d.\" made it a financially viable option for the working-class audience it was intended for. Thus based on price alone there were few direct competitors for the periodical to be challenged by. The only direct competitor in this price range in 1832 was the \"Edinburgh Journa\"l.\n\nAnother aspect of its success as suggested by historians Rosemary Mitchell and A.L. Austin was the role of ‘non-radical information’. Austin states that the timing of the publication of the periodical in the same year as the Reform Act of 1832 was significant as this meant that “the working classes expected parliamentary authority to consider the laboring community’s complaints” and that such questioning of authority led to a “public shift toward rational inquiry” which could be found within the pages of \"The Penny Magazine\". This outlook has been supported by Mitchell who also feels that the lack of controversial material was significant “in the \"Penny Magazine\"’s appeal to a mass audience.” \n\nAn additional factor in the early success of the magazine was the consistent use of illustrations throughout its years of publication. The publisher Charles Knight favoured using the new reproductive medium of wood-engraving, which was cheaper than the steel-engraving alternative, to attract readers to his publication. Knight also had an advantage, due to being based inside London, he had access to a number of skilled engravers such as William Harvey, John Orrin Smith and Edmund Evans among others. It was through his association with inventor Edward Cowper, as well as the timing of the Industrial Revolution, that enabled him to take advantage of the steam printing press to produce more illustrations for \"The Penny Magazine\".\n\nThe use of pictures was also advantageous with the magazine’s target market as over 75% of school children were illiterate and another 300,000 did not attend school in 1832, the first year of publication. Similarly, in 1841 over 30% of males and nearly 50% of females were still illiterate, therefore using illustrations Knight was able to appeal to an audience with limited reading skills, while also enabling self-education.\n\nThe illustrations became highly popular with Knight’s target audience as shown by the fact 1,887 illustrated articles were published in \"The Penny Magazine\" between the years of 1832 and 1845. The significant commercial value of illustrations for \"The Penny Magazine\" resulted in a whole front page being dedicated to a single picture. These images would often vary between machinery and animals. The popularity of illustrations and Knight’s desire for sales resulted in certain covers becoming scientifically inaccurate, for example an illustration of \"The Boa Constrictor\" (October 27, 1832) showed the creature attacking its prey with fangs drawn even though the reptile suffocates its prey. Austin argues that the idea of the snake striking at its prey was more likely to stir the reader’s emotions and entice them into purchasing the magazine.\n\nUltimately it would be these illustrations, so vital to \"The Penny Magazine\"’s early success, which would lead to financial problems. Despite the production of an accompanying encyclopedia, \"The Penny Cyclopedia\", the growing periodicals market caused Knight to lose significant market share whilst simultaneously having to pay more for illustrations to compete with other publishers. By 1833 Knight was paying over £20,000 per annum, forcing him to raise the price of the magazine to 4\"d\". and as a result he could not maintain his early commercial success.\n\nIn 1898 Cassell & Co, began publication of a new weekly magazine. It ran from 1898 to 1903 as The New Penny Magazine, from 1903 to January 1925 as The Penny Magazine and from February 1925 to August 1925, as Cassell's Popular Magazine. There were numerous illustrations and each volume, when sold as a bound book, contained the issues for three months. It was initially called \"The New Penny Magazine\" to avoid confusion with the earlier, The Penny Magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893741", "title": "Omaha people", "text": "Omaha people\n\nThe Omaha (Omaha-Ponca: \"Umoⁿhoⁿ\") are a federally recognized Midwestern Native American tribe who reside on the Omaha Reservation in northeastern Nebraska and western Iowa, United States. The Omaha Indian Reservation lies primarily in the southern part of Thurston County and northeastern Cuming County, Nebraska, but small parts extend into the northeast corner of Burt County and across the Missouri River into Monona County, Iowa. Its total land area is and a population of 5,194 was recorded in the 2000 census. Its largest community is Macy.\n\nThe Omaha people migrated to the upper Missouri area and the Plains by the late 17th century from earlier locations in the Ohio River Valley. The Omaha speak a Siouan language of the Dhegihan branch, which is very similar to that spoken by the Ponca. The latter were part of the Omaha before splitting off into a separate tribe in the mid-18th century. They were also related to the Siouan-speaking Osage, Quapaw, and Kansa peoples, who also migrated west under pressure from the Iroquois in the Ohio Valley. After pushing out other tribes, the Iroquois kept control of the area as a hunting ground.\n\nAbout 1770, the Omaha became the first tribe on the Northern Plains to adopt equestrian culture. Developing \"The Big Village\" (\"Ton-wa-tonga\") about 1775 in current-day Dakota County in northeast Nebraska, the Omaha developed an extensive trading network with early European explorers and French Canadian voyageurs. They controlled the fur trade and access to other tribes on the Upper Missouri River.\n\nOmaha, Nebraska, the largest city in Nebraska, is named after them. Never known to take up arms against the U.S., the Omaha assisted the U.S. during the American Civil War.\n\nThe Omaha tribe began as a larger Woodland tribe comprising both the Omaha and Quapaw tribes. This tribe coalesced and inhabited the area near the Ohio and Wabash rivers around year 1600. As the tribe migrated west, it split into what became the Omaha and the Quapaw tribes. The Quapaw settled in what is now Arkansas and the Omaha, known as \"U-Mo'n-Ho'n\" (\"upstream\") settled near the Missouri River in what is now northwestern Iowa. Another division happened, with the Ponca becoming an independent tribe, but they tended to settle near the Omaha. The first European journal reference to the Omaha tribe was made by Pierre-Charles Le Sueur in 1700. Informed by reports, he described an Omaha village with 400 dwellings and a population of about 4,000 people. It was located on the Big Sioux River near its confluence with the Missouri, near present-day Sioux City, Iowa. The French then called it \"The River of the Mahas.\"\nIn 1718, the French cartographer Guillaume Delisle mapped the tribe as \"The Maha, a wandering nation\", along the northern stretch of the Missouri River. French fur trappers found the Omaha on the eastern side of the Missouri River in the mid-18th century. The Omaha were believed to have ranged from the Cheyenne River in South Dakota to the Platte River in Nebraska. Around 1734 the Omaha established their first village west of the Missouri River on Bow Creek in present-day Cedar County, Nebraska.\n\nAround 1775 the Omaha developed a new village, probably located near present-day Homer, Nebraska. \"Ton won tonga\" (or \"Tonwantonga\", also called the \"Big Village\"), was the village of Chief Blackbird. At this time, the Omaha controlled the fur trade on the Missouri River. About 1795, the village had around 1,100 people.\n\nAround 1800 a smallpox epidemic, resulting from contact with Europeans, swept the area, reducing the tribe's population dramatically by killing approximately one-third of its members. Chief Blackbird was among those who died that year. Blackbird had established trade with the Spanish and French, and used trade as a security measure to protect his people. Aware they traditionally lacked a large population as defense from neighboring tribes, Blackbird believed that fostering good relations with white explorers and trading were the keys to their survival. The Spanish built a fort nearby and traded regularly with the Omaha during this period.\n\nAfter the United States made the Louisiana Purchase and exerted pressure on the trading in this area, there was a proliferation of different kinds of goods among the Omaha: tools and clothing became prevalent, such as scissors, axes, top hats and buttons. Women took on more manufacturing of goods for trade, as well as hand farming, perhaps because of evolving technology. Those women buried after 1800 had shorter, more strenuous lives; none lived past the age of 30. But they also had larger roles in the tribe's economy. Researchers have found through archeological excavations that the later women's skeletons were buried with more silver artifacts as grave goods than those of the men, or of women before 1800. After the research was completed, the tribe buried these ancestral remains in 1991.\n\nWhen Lewis and Clark visited \"Ton-wa-tonga\" in 1804, most of the inhabitants were gone on a seasonal buffalo hunt. The expedition met with the Oto Indians, who were also Siouan speaking. The explorers were led to the gravesite of Chief Blackbird before continuing on their expedition west. In 1815 the Omaha made their first treaty with the United States, one called a \"treaty of friendship and peace.\" No land was relinquished by the tribe.\n\nSemi-permanent Omaha villages lasted from 8 to 15 years. They created sod houses for winter dwellings, which were arranged in a large circle in the order of the five clans or gentes of each \"moitie\", to keep the balance between the Sky and Earth parts of the tribe. Eventually, disease and Sioux aggression from the north forced the tribe to move south. Between 1819 and 1856, they established villages near what is now Bellevue, Nebraska and along Papillion Creek.\n\nBy the Fourth Treaty of Prairie du Chien in 1831, the Omaha ceded their lands in Iowa to the United States, east of the Missouri River, with the understanding that they still had hunting rights there. In 1836 a treaty with the US took their remaining hunting lands in northwestern Missouri.\n\nDuring the 1840s, the Omaha continued to suffer from Sioux aggression. European-American settlers pressed the US government to make more land available west of the Mississippi River for white development. In 1846 Big Elk made an illegal treaty allowing a large group of Mormons to settle on Omaha land for a period; he hoped to gain some protection from competing natives by their guns, but the new settlers cut deeply into the game and wood resources of the area during the two years they were there.\n\nFor nearly 15 years in the 19th century, Logan Fontenelle was the interpreter at the Bellevue Agency, serving different US Indian agents. The mixed-race Omaha-French man was trilingual and also worked as a trader. His mother was Omaha; his father French Canadian. In January 1854 he acted as interpreter during the agent James M. Gatewood's negotiations for land cessions with 60 Omaha leaders and elders, who sat in council at Bellevue. Gatewood had been under pressure by Washington headquarters to achieve a land sale. The Omaha elders refused to delegate the negotiations to their gens chiefs, but came to an agreement to sell most of their remaining lands west of the Missouri to the United States. Competing interests may be shown by the draft treaty containing provisions for payment of tribal debts to the traders Fontenelle, Peter Sarpy, and Louis Saunsouci. The chiefs at council agreed to move from the Bellevue Agency further north, finally choosing the Blackbird Hills, essentially the current reservation in Thurston County, Nebraska.\n\nThe 60 men designated seven chiefs to go to Washington, DC for final negotiations along with Gatewood, with Fontenelle to serve as their interpreter. The chief Iron Eye (Joseph LaFlesche) was among the seven who went to Washington and is considered the last chief of the Omaha under their traditional system. Logan Fontenelle served as their interpreter, and whites mistakenly believed he was a chief. Because his father was white, the Omaha never accepted him as a member of the tribe, but considered him white.\n\nAlthough the draft treaty authorized the seven chiefs to make only \"slight alterations,\" the government officials forced major changes when they met. It took out the payments to the traders. It reduced the total value of annuities from $1,200,000 to $84,000, spread over years until 1895. It reserved the right to decide on distribution between cash and goods for the annuities.\nThe tribe finally removed to the Blackbird Hills about 1856, and they first built a village in its traditional pattern. By the 1870s, bison were quickly disappearing from the plains, and the Omaha had to rely increasingly for survival upon their cash annuities and supplies from the United States Government and adaptation to subsistence agriculture. Jacob Vore was a Quaker appointed as US Indian agent to the Omaha Reservation under President Ulysses S. Grant. He started in September 1876, succeeding T.S. Gillingham, also a Quaker.\n\nVore distributed a reduced annuity that year, just before the Omaha left on their annual buffalo hunt; according to his later account, he intended to \"encourage\" the Omaha to work at more agriculture. They suffered a poor hunting season and severe winter, so that some were starving before late spring. Vore gained a supplement to the annuities which he had distributed, but for the remaining years of his tenure through 1879, distributed no cash annuities of the $20,000/year which was part of the treaty. Instead, he supplied goods: harrows, wagons, harnesses and various kinds of plows and implements to support the agricultural work. He told the tribe that Washington, DC officials had disapproved the annuity. The people had no recourse, and struggled to raise more produce, increasing the harvest to 20,000 bushels.\n\nThe Omaha never took up arms against the U.S. Several members of the tribe fought for the Union during the American Civil War, as well as each subsequent war through today.\n\nBeginning in the 1960s, the Omaha began to reclaim lands east of the Missouri River, in an area called Blackbird Bend. After lengthy court battles and several standoffs, much of the area has been recognized as part Omaha tribal lands. The Omaha established their Blackbird Bend Casino on this reclaimed territory.\n\nIn 1989, the Omaha reclaimed more than 100 ancestral skeletons from \"Ton-wo-tonga,\" which had been held by museums. They had been excavated during archaeological work of the 1930s and 1940s, from grave sites with burials before and after 1800. Before having ceremonial reburial of the remains on Omaha lands, the tribe's representatives arranged for research at the University of Nebraska to see what could be learned from their ancestors.\n\nResearchers found considerable differences in the community before and after 1800, as revealed in their bones and artifacts. Most significantly, they discovered that the Omaha were an equestrian Plains culture and buffalo hunters by 1770, making them the \"first documented equestrian culture on the Northern Plains.\" They also found that before 1800, the Omaha traded mostly in arms and ornaments. Men had many more roles in the patrilineal culture than did women: as \"archers, warriors, gunsmiths, and merchants,\" including the major ceremonial roles. Sacred bundles from religious ceremonies were found buried only with men.\n\nIn pre-settlement times, the Omaha had an intricately developed social structure that was closely tied to the people's concept of an inseparable union between sky (male principle) and earth (female); it was part of their creation story and their view of the cosmos. This union was viewed as critical to perpetuation of all living forms and pervaded Omaha culture. The tribe was divided into two moieties or half-tribes, the Sky People (\"Insta'shunda\") and the Earth People (\"Hon'gashenu\"), each led by a different hereditary chief, who inherited power from his father's line.\n\nSky people were responsible for the tribe's spiritual needs and Earth people for the tribe's physical welfare. Each moiety was composed of five clans or gente, which also had differing responsibilities. Each gens had a hereditary chief, through the male lines, as the tribe had a patrilineal kinship system of descent and inheritance. Children were considered to be born to their father's clan. Individuals married persons from another gens, not within their own.\n\nThe hereditary chiefs and clan structures still existed at the time the elders and chiefs negotiated with the United States to cede most of their land in Nebraska in exchange for protection and cash annuities. Only men born into hereditary lines through their fathers, or formally adopted by a male into the tribe, as Joseph LaFlesche (Iron Eye) was by the chief Big Elk in the 1840s, could become chiefs. Big Elk designated LaFlesche as his son and successor chief of the \"Weszinste\". LaFlesche, a man of mixed race, was the last recognized head chief selected by the traditional ways, and he was the only chief with any European ancestry. He served for decades from 1853.\n\nAlthough whites considered Logan Fontenelle a chief, the Omaha did not. They used him as an interpreter; he was of mixed-race with a white father, so was considered white, as he had not been adopted by a man of the tribe.\n\nToday the Omaha host an annual pow wow. At the celebration, a committee elects the Omaha Pow Wow Princess. She serves as a representative in the community and a role model for younger children.\n\nAs the tribe migrated westward from the Ohio River region in the 17th century, they adapted to the Plains environment. They replaced the Woodland custom of bark lodges with tipis (borrowed from the Sioux) for the buffalo hunting and summer season, and built earth lodges (borrowed from the Arikara, called Sand Pawnee,) for the winter. Tipis were used primarily during buffalo hunts and when they relocated from one village area to another. They used earth lodges as dwellings during the winter.\n\nOmaha beliefs were symbolized in their dwelling structures. During most of the year, Omaha Indians lived in earth or sod lodges, ingenious structures with a timber frame and a thick sod covering. At the center of the lodge was a fireplace that recalled their creation myth. The earthlodge entrance was built to face east, to catch the rising sun and remind the people of their origin and migration upriver from the east.\n\nThe \"Huthuga\", the circular layout of tribal villages, reflected the tribe's beliefs. Sky people lived in the northern half-circle of the village, the area that symbolized the heavens. Earth people lived in the southern half, which represented the earth. The circle opened to the east. Within each half of the village, the clans or gentes were located based on their members' tribal duties and relationship to other clans. Earth lodges were as large as in diameter and might hold several families, even their horses.\n\nWhen the tribe removed to the Omaha Reservation about 1856, they initially built their village and earth lodges in the traditional patterns, with the half-tribes and clans in their traditional places in the layout.\n\nThe Omaha revere an ancient Sacred Pole, from before the time of their migration to the Missouri, made of cottonwood. It is called \"Umoⁿ'hoⁿ'ti\" (meaning \"The Real Omaha\") and considered to be a person. It was kept in a Sacred Tent in the center of the village, which only men who were members of the Holy Society could enter. An annual renewal ceremony was related to the Sacred Pole.\n\nIn 1888 Francis La Flesche, a young Omaha anthropologist, helped arrange for his colleague Alice Fletcher to have the Sacred Pole taken to the Peabody Museum of Archaeology and Ethnology at Harvard University, for preservation of it and its stories, at a time when the tribe's continuity seemed threatened by pressure for assimilation. The tribe was considering burying the Pole with its last keeper after his death. The last renewal ceremony for the pole was held in 1875, and the last buffalo hunt in 1876. La Flesche and Fletcher gathered and preserved stories about the Sacred Pole by its last keeper, Yellow Smoke, a holy man of the \"Hong'a\" gens.\n\nIn the twentieth century, about 100 years after the Pole had been transferred, the tribe negotiated with the Peabody Museum for its return. The tribe planned to install the Sacred Pole in a cultural center to be built. When the museum returned the Sacred Pole to the tribe in July 1989, the Omaha held an August pow-wow in celebration and as part of their revival.\n\nThe Sacred Pole is said to represent the body of a man. The name by which it is known, \"a-kon-da-bpa\", is the word used to designate the leather bracer worn upon the wrist of an Indian for protection from the bow string (of the weapon of bow and arrow). This name demonstrates that the pole was intended to symbolize a man, as no other creature could wear a bracer. It also indicated that the man thus symbolized was one who was both a provider for and a protector of his people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893742", "title": "White-shouldered tanager", "text": "White-shouldered tanager\n\nThe white-shouldered tanager (\"Tachyphonus luctuosus\") is a medium-sized passerine bird. This tanager is a resident breeder from Honduras to Panama, South America south to Ecuador and southern Brazil, and on Trinidad.\n\nIt occurs in forests and cocoa plantations. The bulky cup nest is built in low vegetation, and the female lays three brown-blotched cream eggs.\n\nWhite-shouldered tanagers are 14 cm long and weigh 14 g. They are long-tailed and with a mostly black stout pointed bill. The adult male is glossy black, apart from white underwing coverts and a conspicuous white shoulder patch. The shoulder patch is the most obvious difference from the similar but larger white-lined tanager, in which the smaller white area is rarely visible except in flight.\n\nFemales and immatures have olive upperparts, yellow underparts and a grey head and neck.\n\nThese are restless birds which eat mainly insects, including stick insects, but will occasionally take fruit. They often associate with other insectivorous birds in wandering feeding flocks.\n\nThe white-shouldered tanager's song is a fast repetitive \"tchirrup\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1893746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893746", "title": "Smith Island (South Shetland Islands)", "text": "Smith Island (South Shetland Islands)\n\nSmith Island is long and wide, lying west of Deception Island in the South Shetland Islands of the British Antarctic Territory. Surface area .\n\nThe discovery of the South Shetland Islands was first reported in 1819 by Capt. William Smith, for whom the island is named. This island was known to both American and British sealers as early as 1820, and the name Smith has been well established in international usage for over 100 years, although in Russian literature it is often referred to as Borodino Island, sometimes marked as Borodino (Smith) Island.\n\nThe island hosts no research stations or camps, and is seldom visited by scientists or mountaineers. Its interior is entirely occupied by Imeon Range rising to (Mount Foster). The first detailed topographic mapping of the island was made by the Antarctic Place-names Commission and the Military Geographic Service of the Bulgarian Army and published in 2009 in both English and Bulgarian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893748", "title": "Dharmakirti", "text": "Dharmakirti\n\nDharmakīrti (fl. c. 6th or 7th century), (Tibetan: ཆོས་ཀྱི་གྲགས་པ་; Wylie: \"chos kyi grags pa\"), was an influential Indian Buddhist philosopher who worked at Nālandā. He was one of the key scholars of epistemology (pramāṇa) in Buddhist philosophy, and is associated with the Yogācāra and Sautrāntika schools. He was also one of the primary theorists of Buddhist atomism. His works influenced the scholars of Mīmāṃsā, Nyaya and Shaivism schools of Hindu philosophy as well as scholars of Jainism.\n\nDharmakīrti's \"Pramāṇavārttika\", his largest and most important work, was very influential in India and Tibet as a central text on pramana ('valid knowledge instruments') and was widely commented on by various Indian and Tibetan scholars. His texts remain part of studies in the monasteries of Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nLittle is known for certain about the life of Dharmakirti. Tibetan hagiographies suggest he was a Brahmin born in South India and was the nephew of the Mīmāṃsā scholar Kumārila Bhaṭṭa. When he was young, Kumārila spoke abusively towards Dharmakirti as he was taking his brahminical garments. This led Dharmakirti to take the robes of the Buddhist order instead, resolving to \"vanquish all the heretics.\" As a student of Buddhism, he first studied under Isvarasena, and later moved to Nalanda where he interacted with 6th century Dharmapala. However, the accuracy of the Tibetan hagiographies is uncertain, and scholars place him in the 7th-century instead. This is because of inconsistencies in different Tibetan and Chinese texts, and because it is around the middle of 7th-century, and thereafter, that Indian texts begin discussing his ideas, such as the citation of Dharmakirti verses in the works of Adi Shankara. Dharmakīrti is placed by most scholars to have lived between 600–660 CE, but a few place him earlier.\n\nDharmakirti is credited with building upon the work of Dignāga, the pioneer of Buddhist logic, and Dharmakirti has ever since been influential in the Buddhist tradition. His theories became normative in Tibet and are studied to this day as a part of the basic monastic curriculum.\n\nDharmakirti worked at Nalanda as a lay Buddhist, not as an ordained monk, and his work reflects his belief that no one will understand the value of his work, his efforts soon forgotten. History proved his fears wrong.\n\nThe Buddhist works such as the \"Yogacarabhumi-sastra\" and the \"Mahāyānasūtrālaṅkāra\" composed before the 6th century, on \"hetuvidyā\" (logic, dialectics) are unsystematic, whose approach and structure are heresiological, proselytical and apologetic. Their aims were to defeat non-Buddhist opponents (Hinduism, Jainism, Ājīvikism, others), defend the ideas of Buddhism, develop a line of arguments that monks can use to convert those who doubt Buddhism and to strengthen the faith of Buddhists who begin to develop doubts. Around the middle of the 6th century, possibly to address the polemics of non-Buddhist traditions with their pramana foundations, the Buddhist scholar Dignāga shifted the emphasis from dialectics to more systematic epistemology and logic, retaining the heresiological and apologetic focus. Dharmakīrti followed in Dignāga footsteps, and is credited with systematic philosophical doctrines on Buddhist epistemology, which Vincent Eltschinger states, has \"a full-fledged positive/direct apologetic commitment\". Dharmakīrti lived during the collapse of the Gupta Empire, a time of great insecurity for Buddhist institutions. The role of Buddhist logic was seen as an intellectual defense against Hindu philosophical arguments formulated by epistemically sophisticated traditions like the Nyaya school. However, Dharmakīrti and his followers also held that the study of reasoning and its application was an important tool for soteriological ends.\n\nDharmakīrti's philosophy is based on the need to establish a theory of logical validity and certainty grounded in causality. Following Dignāga's \"Pramāṇasamuccaya\", Dharmakīrti also holds that there are only two instruments of knowledge or 'valid cognition' (\"pramāṇa\"); \"perception\" (pratyaksa) and \"inference\" (anumāṇa). Perception is a non-conceptual knowing of particulars which is bound by causality, while inference is reasonable, linguistic and conceptual. In the \"Pramāṇavārttika\" Dharmakīrti defines a pramana as a \"reliable cognition\". What it means for a cognition to be reliable has been interpreted in different ways. Following commentators like Dharmottara, who define it as meaning that a cognition is able to lead to the obtaining of one's desired object, some modern scholars such as Jose I. Cabezon have interpreted Dharmakīrti as defending a form of Pragmatism. Tillemans sees him as holding to a weak form of correspondence theory, which holds that to \"confirm causal efficacy\" (\"arthakriyāsthiti\") is to have a justification that an object of cognition has the causal powers we expected. That justification comes through a certain kind of non-conceptual perception (\"pratyakṣa\") which is said to be an \"intrinsical source of knowledge\" (\"svataḥ prāmāṇya\") which is ultimately reliable. Dharmakīrti sees a cognition as being valid if it has a causal connection with the object of cognition through an intrinsically valid, un-conceptual perception of the object which does not err regarding its functionality. As Dharmakirti says: \"A pramāṇa is a reliable cognition. [As for] reliability, it consists in [this cognition's] compliance with [the object's capacity to] perform a function\" (\"Pramāṇavārttika\" 2.1ac).\n\nDharmakīrti also holds that there were certain extraordinary epistemic warrants, such as the words of the Buddha, who was said to be a authoritative/reliable person (\"pramāṇapuruṣa\") as well as the 'inconceivable' perception of a yogi (\"yogipratyakṣa\"). On the role of scriptural authority, Dharmakīrti has a moderate and nuanced position. For Dharmakīrti, scripture (Buddhist or otherwise) is not a genuine and independent mean of valid cognition. He held that one should not use scripture to guide one on matters which can be decided by factual and rational means and that one is not to be faulted for rejecting unreasonable parts of the scriptures of one's school. However scripture is to be relied upon when dealing with \"radically inaccessible things\", such as the laws of karma and soteriology. However according to Dharmakīrti scripture is a fallible source of knowledge and has no claim to certainty. \n\nAccording to Buddhologist Tom Tillemans, Dharmakīrti's ideas constitute a nominalist philosophy which disagrees with the Madhyamaka philosophy, by asserting that some entities are real. Dharmakīrti states that the real is only the momentarily existing particulars (\"svalakṣaṇa\"), and any universal (\"sāmānyalakṣaṇa\") is unreal and a fiction. He criticized the Nyaya theory of universals by arguing that since they have no causal efficacy, there is no rational reason to posit them. What is real must have powers (\"śakti\"), fitness (\"yogyatā\") or causal properties which is what individuates a real particular as an object of perception. Dharmakīrti writes \"whatever has causal powers (\"arthakriyāsamartha\"), that really exists (\"paramārthasat\").\" This theory of causal properties has been interpreted as a form of trope theory. \"Svalakṣaṇa\" are said to be part-less, undivided and property-less, and yet they impart a causal force which give rise to perceptual cognitions, which are direct reflections of the particulars. \n\nDharmakīrti's ultimately real (\"paramārthasat\") particulars are contrasted with conventionally real entities (\"saṃvṛtisat\") as part of his presentation of the Buddhist Two truths doctrine. The conventionally real for him are based on linguistic categories, intellectual constructs and erroneous superimpositions on the flow of reality, such as the idea that universals exist. According to Dharmakīrti, cognitive distortion of the direct perception of particulars occurs during the process of recognition (\"pratyabhijñāna\") and perceptual judgment (\"niścaya\") which arises due to latent tendencies (\"vāsanā\") in the mind left over from past impressions of similar perceptions. These latent dispositions come together into constructed representations of the previously experienced object at the moment of perception, and hence it is an imposed error on the real, a pseudo-perception (\"pratyakṣābhāsa\") which conceals (\"saṃvṛti\") reality while at the same time being practically useful for navigating it. Ignorance (\"avidyā\") for Dharmakīrti is conceptuality, pseudo-perception and superimposition overlaid on the naturally radiant (\"prabhāsvara\") nature of pure perception. By correcting these defilements of perception through mental cultivation as well as using inference to gain \"insight born of (rational) reflection\" (\"cintāmayī prajñā\") a Buddhist yogi is able to better see the true nature of reality until his perception is fully perfected. \n\nDharmakīrti, again following Dignāga, also holds that that things as they are in themselves are \"ineffable\" (\"avyapadeśya\"). Language is never about the things in themselves, only about conceptual fictions, hence they are nominalists. Due to this theory, the main issue for Dharmakirti becomes how to explain that it is possible for our arbitrary and conventional linguistic schemas to refer to perceptual particulars which are ineffable and non conceptual. To explain this gap between conceptual schema and perceptual content, Dharmakirti takes up Dignaga's theory of \"exclusion\" (\"apoha\"). Dignāga's view is that \"a word talks about entities only as they are qualified by the negation of other things.\" Dharmakīrti's unique take on this nominalist theory, which underlies his entire system, is to reinterpret it in terms of causal efficacy—\"arthakriyā\" (which can also be translated as 'telic function', 'functionality', and 'fulfillment of purpose').\n\nDharmakīrti developed his philosophical system to defend Buddhist doctrines, so it is no surprise that he developed a number of arguments for rebirth, the Four Noble Truths, the authority of the Buddha, karma, anatta and compassion as well as attacking Brahminical views such as the authority of the Vedas. \n\nDharmakīrti also defended the Buddhist theory of momentariness (\"kṣaṇikatva\"), which held that dharmas spontaneously perish the moment they arise. Dharmakīrti came up with an argument for the theory which stated that since anything that really exists has a causal power, the fact that its causal power is in effect proves it is always changing. For Dharmakīrti, nothing could be a cause while remaining the same, and any permanent thing would be causally inert.\n\nDharmakīrti defends Dignāga's theory of consciousness being non-conceptually reflexive (\"svasamvitti\" or \"svasaṃvedana\"). This is the idea that an act of intentional consciousness is also aware of itself as aware. Consciousness is said to illuminate itself like a lamp that illuminates objects in a room as well as itself. Dharmakīrti also defends the Yogācāra theory of \"awareness-only\" (\"vijñaptimātratā\"), which held that 'external objects' of perception do not exist. According to Dharmakīrti, an object of cognition is not external or separate from the act of cognition itself. This is because the object is \"necessarily experienced simultaneously with the cognition [itself]\" (\"Pramāṇavārttika\" 3.387). The view that there is a duality (\"dvaya\") between an object (\"grāhya\") and a subjective cognition (\"grāhaka\") arises out of ignorance.\n\nDharmakīrti's \"Substantiation of Other Mindstreams\" (\"Saṃtānāntarasiddhi\") is a treatise on the nature of the mindstream and Buddhist response to the problem of other minds Dharmakirti held the mindstream to be beginning-less yet also described the mindstream as a temporal sequence, and that as there are no true beginnings, there are no true endings, hence, the \"beginningless time\" motif that is frequently used to describe the concept of mindstream.\n\nThere is disagreement among Indian and Tibetan doxographers as to how to categorise Dharmakīrti's thought. The Gelug school asserts that he expressed Yogācāra views, most non-Gelug Tibetan commentators assert that he expressed Sautrāntika views and, according to one Tibetan source, a number of renowned later Indian Madhyamikas asserted that he expressed Madhyamaka views. \n\nAmong modern scholars, some like Tillemans argue that Dharmakīrti represented the Yogācāra school, while Amar Singh argues that he was a Sautrāntika. For Christine Mullikin Keyt, Dharmakīrti represents a \"synthesis of two schools of Indian Buddhism, the Sautrantika and the Yogacara.\" Likewise, Dan Arnold argues that Dharmakīrti's alternating philosophical perspectives of Sautrāntika and Yogācāra views are ultimately compatible and are applied at different levels of his 'sliding scale of analysis.'\n\nThere is also a tendency to see Dignāga and Dharmakīrti as founding a new type of Buddhist school or tradition, which is known in Tibetan as \"those who follow reasoning\" (\"rigs pa rjes su 'brang ba\") and sometimes is known in modern literature as \"pramāṇavāda\".\n\nDharmakīrti is credited with the following major works:\n\n\nThere are various commentaries by later thinkers on Dharmakīrti, the earliest commentators are the Indian scholars Devendrabuddhi (ca. 675 C E.) and Sakyabuddhi (ca. 700 C.E.). Other Indian commentators include Karṇakagomin, Prajñākaragupta, Manorathanandin, Ravigupta and Śaṅkaranandana.\n\nHe was extremely influential in Tibet, where Phya pa Chos kyi Seng ge (1182-1251) wrote the first summary of his works, called \"Clearing of Mental Obscuration with Respect to the\nSeven Treatises on Valid Cognition\" (\"tshad ma sde bdun yid gi mun sel\"). Sakya Pandita wrote the \"Treasure on the Science of Valid Cognition\" (\"tshad ma rigs gter\") and interpreted Dharmakirti as an anti-realist against Phya pa's realism. These two main interpretations of Dharmakīrti became the foundation for most debates in Tibetan epistemology.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893752", "title": "Helm Wind", "text": "Helm Wind\n\nThe Helm Wind is a named wind in Cumbria, England, a strong north-easterly wind which blows down the south-west slope of the Cross Fell escarpment. It is the only named wind in the British Isles, although many other mountain regions in Britain exhibit the same phenomenon when the weather conditions are favourable. It may take its name from the helmet or cap of cloud which forms above Cross Fell, known as the Helm Bar, since a line of clouds over the fells can predict and accompany a Helm. Research into the helm wind was carried out by Gordon Manley in the 1930s. He interpreted the phenomenon in hydrodynamic terms as a \"standing wave\" and \"rotor\", a model confirmed in 1939 by glider flights. \n\nThe dale at the head of the Eden Valley has its own Helm Wind, which sweeps over Mallerstang Edge, particularly affecting the central part of the dale. This can be similarly fierce and can blow for two days or more, sometimes sounding like an express train. As with the wind at Cross Fell, its arrival is accompanied by the formation of a dense cap of cloud (a \"Helm Bar\") which, in this case, forms along the high ground on the eastern side of the dale.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893774", "title": "Kalantiaw", "text": "Kalantiaw\n\nDatu Kalantiaw (Rajah Bendahara Kalantiaw) (sometimes spelled Kalantiao) was once considered an important part of Philippine history as the one who created the first legal code in the Philippines, known as the Code of Kalantiaw in 1433. He was considered by Filipinos, particularly the Visayans, as the third head of Panay (an island in Visayas with four provinces: Aklan, Antique, Capiz and Iloilo). He was a source of fierce Filipino and Visayan pride for decades, until his authenticity was debunked by Historian William Henry Scott in his PhD thesis, \"Critical Study of the Prehispanic Source Materials for the Study of Philippine History\" relegating the once legendary historical figure into a mythical Filipino character or an urban legend.\n\nKalantiaw's name first appeared in print in July 1913 in an article entitled \"Civilización prehispana\" published in the Philippine news-magazine \"Renacimiento Filipino\". The article mentioned 16 laws enacted by King Kalantiaw in 1433 and a fort that he built at Gagalangin, Negros, which was destroyed by an earthquake in the year A.D. 435 (not 1435). The article was written by Manuel Artigas who, only a year before, had provided the footnotes to an essay by José Marco, Reseña historica de la Isla de Negros.\n\nIn 1914, José Marco donated five manuscripts to Dr. James A. Robertson for the Philippine Library and Museum. Robertson called Marco \"a good friend to the institution\" and his earliest contributions, \"the greatest literary discovery ever made in the archipelago.\" \n\nAmong the documents was \"Las Antiguas leyendes de la Isla de Negros\", a two volume leather bound work that was supposedly written by a Friar José María Pavón in 1838 and 1839. The Code of Kalantiaw, in chapter 9 of part 1, was one of six translated documents that were dated before the arrival of the Spaniards in the Philippines. The original Code was purportedly discovered in the possession of a Panay datu in 1614. At the time of Pavón's writing in 1839 it was supposedly owned by a Don Marcelio Orfila of Zaragoza. On July 20, 1915, Robertson submitted a paper about the Kalantiaw Code to the Panama-Pacific Historical Congress in California and then published an English translation of the Code in 1917.\n\nThe historian Josue Soncuya published a Spanish translation of the code in 1917, and wrote about it in his book \"Historia Prehispana de Filipinas\" (\"Prehispanic History of the Philippines\"). Soncuya concluded that the Code had been written for Aklan because of the presence of two Aklanon rather than Hiligaynon words in the text, and the words Aklan, Panay Island were added to later versions of Soncuya's translation (viz. \"Echo en al año 1433–Calantiao–3° regulo\").\n\nIn 1949, Gregorio Zaide included the Kalantiaw Code in his Philippine Political and Cultural History with the words \"Aklan, Panay\" attached to the title. In 1956, Digno Alba declared in his book Paging Datu Kalantiaw that the Datu had set up his government in Batan and made it the capital of the sakup of Aklan.\n\nOn June 1, 1956, acting upon the request of the Municipal Council of Batan, the Philippine Historical Committee installed a marker in a tract of land near the bay. This was unveiled on December 8, 1956.\n\nOn February 11, 1957, President Ramon Magsaysay approved Executive Order No. 234 declaring the site as a national shrine. A former school building in the town was converted into the Kalantiaw Shrine by the Philippine Historical and Cultural Society and the Code of Kalantiaw was later inscribed there in brass.\n\nKalantiaw was honoured by the Philippine Navy in December 1967 when it acquired the World War II destroyer escort \"USS Booth\" from the United States and recommissioned it the RPS \"Datu Kalantiaw\". That vessel was the flagship of the Philippine Navy from 1967 to 1981.\n\nOn March 1, 1971, President Ferdinand Marcos instituted the \"Order of Kalantiaw\", an award \"for services to the country in the areas of law and justice\" (Executive Order No. 294).\nThen January 24, 1973, President Ferdinand E. Marcos signed Presidential Decree No. 105 declaring national shrines such as sacred (hallowed) places and prohibiting desecration thereof.\n\nOn June 19, 1978 a 30-centavo postage stamp was released in honour of \"Rajah Kalantiaw\".\n\nIn 1965, William Henry Scott was a doctoral candidate at the University of Santo Tomas when the bibliographer Mauro Garcia suggested that for his thesis he examine the history of the Philippines before the arrival of the Spaniards. Garcia had received several fake documents from José Marco in the past, which made him suspicious of Marco's first discoveries upon which so much early history was based. He only showed a few of these forgeries to Scott so as not to prejudice his research, saving the most blatant fakes until after Scott had formed his own conclusions about Marco's work.\n\nHistorian William Henry Scott asserted in his PhD thesis, \"Critical Study of the Prehispanic Source Materials for the Study of Philippine History\" that there is no evidence that any Filipino ruler by the name of Kalantiaw ever existed or that the Kalantiaw penal code is any older than 1914. Scott successfully defended the thesis in 1968 before a panel of eminent Filipino historians which included Teodoro Agoncillo, Horacio de la Costa, Marcelino Foronda, Nicolas Zafra, and Gregorio Zaide. The thesis was published by University of Santo Tomas Press Press in 1968.\n\nWilliam H. Scott's exposé did not have an immediate effect on Filipino society. On March 1, 1971, President Ferdinand Marcos instituted the \"Order of Kalantiaw\", an award \"for services to the country in the areas of law and justice\" (Executive Order No. 294). That same year a beauty pageant winner was crowned \"Lakambini ni Kalantiaw\" on the supposed anniversary of the Code (December 8), and the artist Carlos Valino Jr. depicted Kalantiaw issuing his commandments (See painting above). On January 24, 1973, Marcos also issued Presidential Decree No. 105, which declared that the Kalantiaw Shrine, and all national shrines, were sacred. The decree prohibited all forms of desecration including \"unnecessary noise and committing unbecoming acts.\" Like Kalantiaw's Code, the penalty was hefty; \"imprisonment for not less than ten (10) years or a fine not less than ten thousand pesos (P10,000) or both.\"\n\nGregorio F. Zaide, the author of countless school textbooks and a member of the very dissertation panel that examined Scott's thesis in 1968 remained silent but he continued to endorse the myth and even add his own details to it in books such as Heroes of Philippine History (1970), Pageant of Philippine History (1979), History of the Republic of the Philippines (1983), Philippine History (1984), and in reissues of his older works. Soon after Dr. Zaide's death in 1986 his daughter, Sonia M. Zaide, revised the books that she had co-authored with her father and removed most, but not all, of the material based on the Marco hoaxes.\n\nIn 1994 the playwright Rene O. Villanueva dramatized the life of Jose E. Marco and the creation of the Kalantiaw hoax in the play Kalantiaw, Kagila-gilalas na Kasinungalingan (The Amazing Lie). Villanueva's intriguing story proposed that Marco's motivation for creating his frauds was his intense admiration for his personal hero, Jose Rizal. Marco's ambition was to better the accomplishments of Rizal by inventing a glorious past to fill the gaps in Filipino history.\n\nThe NHI admitted that Kalantiaw was a hoax in 1998 when Chief Justice Andres Narvasa, who was about to receive the Kalantiaw Award, asked Malacañang to look into the matter. President Joseph Estrada gave him the award anyway. In 2005, the NHI, under the leadership of Ambeth Ocampo, made their opinion official when they submitted a resolution to President Arroyo to revoke the national shrine status of the Kalantiaw Shrine in Aklan. That resolution, National Historical Institute (NHI) Resolution No. 12 of 2004, declared \"[...] that Code of Kalantiao/Kalantiaw has no Valid Historical Basis\". The NHI called for: (1) the official affirmation that the Kalantiaw Code is a twentieth-century fraudulent work by Jose Marco, (2) the President of the Philippines cease to honor retiring Supreme justices and other international dignitaries with the 'Order of Kalantiaw', and (3) the revoking of Executive Order 234, which declared the municipality of Batan, Province of Aklan as a national shrine. This NHI resolution was approved by the Office of the President in 2005 and taken into effect immediately, despite strong protests from the people of the province of Aklan.\n\nSome Filipinos, both scholars and non-scholars, continue to believe that the Code of Kalantiaw and the datu/chieftain who supposedly promulgated these laws actually existed. In a 2001 International conference presentation on 'The Philippine Judicial System', Dr. Raul Pangalangan, Dean, College of Law from the University of the Philippines said, \"[...] all ancient written laws of the Filipinos were lost with the exception of the Code of Maragtas and the Code of Kalantiaw, both from Panay Island.\" During the Philippine House of Representative 2nd Regular Session in August 2008, Congressman Aurora Cerilles referred to the signing of the Code of Kalantiaw in Panay saying, \"That is why there is the so-called 'The Code of Kalantiaw,' where a person called Marikudo signed a treaty with Sumakwel\".\n\nBefore and despite of his inauthenticity, Kalantiao has left an indelible mark in the lives of Filipinos, embracing his character as part of their heritage.\n\nInside the National Museum of the Philippines (formerly the Legislative Building), Kalantiao is portrayed alongside 13 other sculptures of renowned historical lawmakers & legislators of the world on the entablature of the Senate Session Hall, which survived the rampant devastation of the Battle of Manila of February 1945, and has been mostly restored to its pre-War state.\n\nIn 2003, President Gloria Macapagal Arroyo signed executive order 236, consolidating the current Philippine honours system and, in it, the \"Order of Kalantiao\" ceased being an honour. However, the Implementing Rules and Regulations \nof the Executive Order did list the Order of Kalantiaw as one of the Honors of the Philippines.\n\nThe Central Philippine University in Iloilo has its own \"Order of Kalantiao\", a fraternity that was at the centre of a serious hazing incident in September 2001. Even the National Historical Institute (NHI) honoured Kalantiaw in 1989 by including him in volume 4 of their five volumes of Filipinos in History. The Gintong Pamana (Golden Heritage) Awards Foundation, a project of Philippine Time USA Magazine, rewards community leadership among Filipino-Americans with the \"Kalantiaw Award\". Buildings, streets and banquet halls throughout the Philippines still bear the name of the mythical ruler of Panay and tourists can still visit the Kalantiaw Shrine in Batan, Aklan or even pass by a local high school, Kalantiaw Institute.\n\nIn the movies, there is Alagad ni Kalantiao starred by Lito Lapid. In television, a fantasy series was aired in 1986 in GMA Network entitled Mga Alagad ni Kalantiao about three people who each has a rod when formed in triangle transforms them into superheroes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893785", "title": "Melon: Remixes for Propaganda", "text": "Melon: Remixes for Propaganda\n\nMelon: Remixes for Propaganda is a compilation of remixes released by Irish rock band U2 exclusively to members of the band's magazine/fan club, \"Propaganda,\" in spring 1995. Some of the remixes were previously available on singles and some have been re-released on later singles and compilations, while some remain exclusive to this set. The title \"Melon\" is an anagram of \"Lemon\", which is a reference to U2's song of the same name that appears on two tracks of the album.\n\nThe idea behind the album began when U2 lead singer Bono complained how people do not dance to U2 music. The album was then created for the band to develop experimental music and \"change people's perceptions of what to think of U2\". Prior to its release, rumors about the album circulated for three years. Except for copies sent to radio stations, music press outlets, and friends of the band, \"Melon\" was only distributed to subscribers of U2's official magazine, \"Propaganda\". At the time of release, \"Propaganda\" had around 35,000 subscribers, and fewer than 50,000 copies of \"Melon\" were pressed for release. For those who were not members of the magazine, the album was obtainable by signing up for a one-year subscription to \"Propaganda\" for US$18, until supplies were exhausted. The album's rarity made it a collector's item, with copies selling on eBay for £30 as late as 2010.\n\n\"Melon\" spawned numerous bootleg imitations and was widely bootlegged itself. Various releases, known as \"fruitlegs\" or \"fruitboots\", have been released as compilations of official and unofficial remixes of various U2 songs. Although they claim to be official with the \"Remixed for Propaganda\" subtitle and a fake copyright, only \"Melon\" was approved by the band and released through the fan club.\n\nWhen promotional copies of \"Melon\" were distributed to the music press, Island Records requested they listen to the album, but not publish a review. However, several press outlets did provide some feedback about the release. The \"Austin American-Statesman\" mentioned how some songs only retained one feature of the original, such as the vocal track or guitar riff, and stated how the remixes were \"so radically deconstructed that the original can be difficult to recognize\". \"The Washington Post\" stated how bassist Adam Clayton and drummer Larry Mullen, Jr. were \"virtually wiped off the tracks\" and replaced by drum machines, and how The Edge's guitar work and Bono's vocals were heavily modified. The \"Post\" also had a phone number in which readers could call to hear a sound bite of the album.\n\n\"Lemon (The Perfecto Mix)\" previously appeared on the singles for \"Lemon\" and \"Stay (Faraway, So Close!)\". \"Lemon (Bad Yard Club Mix)\" also appeared on the \"Lemon\" single. \"Salomé (Zooromancer Remix)\" first appeared on the \"Who's Gonna Ride Your Wild Horses\" single. \"Mysterious Ways (The Perfecto Mix)\" was a B-side for the \"Mysterious Ways\" single, while \"Even Better Than the Real Thing (The Perfecto Mix)\" was released on the single for \"Even Better Than the Real Thing\". \n\n\"Numb (Gimme Some More Dignity Mix)\", \"Stay (Underdog Mix)\", \"Numb (The Soul Assassins Mix)\", and \"Mysterious Ways (remixed by Massive Attack)\" were all previously unreleased tracks, although \"Numb (The Soul Assassins Mix)\" was later included as a B-side on the single for \"Last Night on Earth\". \"Salomé (Zooromancer Remix)\", \"Even Better Than the Real Thing (The Perfecto Mix)\", and \"Numb (Gimme Some More Dignity Mix)\" were later included on the B-sides disc of the compilation album \"The Best of 1990-2000\".\n\nIn addition to the album on CD, Island Records also officially released a four-track 12\" vinyl to disc jockeys.\n\nU2\n\nTechnical personnel\n\n"}
{"id": "1893798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893798", "title": "Réminiscences de Don Juan", "text": "Réminiscences de Don Juan\n\nRéminiscences de Don Juan (S. 418) is an opera fantasy for piano by Franz Liszt on themes from Mozart's \"Don Giovanni\". \n\nIt is extremely technically demanding and considered to be among the most taxing of Liszt's works and in the entire repertoire. For this reason, and perhaps also because of its length and dramatic intensity, it does not appear in concert programmes as often as Liszt's lighter and more popular pieces, such as the \"Rigoletto Paraphrase\". As Ferruccio Busoni says in the preface to his 1918 edition of the work, the \"Réminiscences\" carries \"an almost symbolic significance as the highest point of pianism.\" Liszt wrote the work in 1841 and published a two-piano version (S. 656) in 1877. The two-piano version bears a structurally strong resemblance to the original.\n\nThe piece begins with music sung by the Commendatore, both from the graveyard scene where he threatens Don Giovanni (\"\"Di rider finirai pria dell'aurora! Ribaldo audace! Lascia a' morti la pace!\"\" — \"\"Your laughter will not last, even till morning. Leave the dead in peace!\"\") and from the finale where he condemns Don Giovanni to Hell. The love duet of Don Giovanni and Zerlina follows (\"\"Là ci darem la mano\"\"), along with two variations on this theme, then an extended fantasy on the Champagne aria (\"\"Fin ch'han dal vino\"\"), and finally the work concludes with the Commendatore's threat.\n\nIn contrast to perhaps the majority of opera fantasies composed during the nineteenth century, Liszt's Don Giovanni paraphrase is a much more tightly controlled and significant work. Where the standard opera transcription is merely a collection of famous tunes,\nThe finest of [Liszt's] opera fantasies...are much more than that: they juxtapose different parts of the opera in ways that bring out a new significance, while the original dramatic sense of the individual number and its place within the opera is never out of sight. (Charles Rosen, \"The Romantic Generation\", p. 528)\n\nThroughout the work, the \"Réminiscences\" makes a great number of advanced technical demands on the pianist, among them passages in chromatic thirds, numerous tenths, and an instance of rapid leaps in both hands across almost the whole width of the keyboard that, in the words of Heinrich Neuhaus, \"with the exception of Ginzburg, probably nobody but the pianola played without smudges.\"\n\nAlexander Scriabin injured his right hand overpracticing this piece and Balakirev's \"Islamey\", and wrote the funeral march of his First Piano Sonata in memory of his damaged hand.\n\nCelebrated recordings of the \"Réminiscences\" include those by Jorge Bolet, Earl Wild, Simon Barere, Grigory Ginzburg, Louis Kentner, Charles Rosen, Leslie Howard and Leo Sirota. More recent versions have been recorded by Marc-André Hamelin, Valentina Lisitsa, Matthew Cameron, Min Kwon, and Lang Lang.\n"}
{"id": "1893799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893799", "title": "Robert Gillespie Reid", "text": "Robert Gillespie Reid\n\nSir Robert Gillespie Reid (12 October 1842, Coupar Angus, Perthshire, Scotland – 3 June 1908) was a Scottish railway contractor most famous for building large railway bridges in Canada and the United States. Founder of Reid Newfoundland Company, from 1889 until his death, he built, owned, and operated the Newfoundland Railway.\n\nAs a young man, Reid spent a few years in Australia mining gold. In 1871, Reid settled in North America, where he began his career as a contractor. He built one section of the Canadian Pacific Railway, and was responsible for the erection of the international bridge over the Niagara River, the international railway bridge over the Rio Grande and the Lachine bridge over the St. Lawrence.\n\nReid brought his business ventures to Newfoundland in 1889. In 1893, he signed a contract with the government of Newfoundland, and as president of the Reid Newfoundland Company he built the railway from Whitbourne to Port aux Basques. The contract specified he work the line for ten years. In return he received a large grant of land.\n\nIn 1898, he further contracted to work all the railways in Newfoundland for fifty years on condition that at the end of this time they should become his property. This bargain, which included other matters such as steamers, docks and telegraphs, was extraordinarily favourable to Reid, who, by further enormous grants of land, became one of the largest landed proprietors in the world. Public opinion was aroused against the deal, and at first the governor, Herbert Murray, refused to ratify it. \n\nAfter the premier, James Spearman Winter, had been replaced by Robert Bond, the terms of the contract were revised, being made more favourable to Newfoundland, and Reid's interests were transferred to a company, the Reid Newfoundland Company, of which he was the first president. The Reid Newfoundland Company owned and operated the Whitbourne to Port aux Basques railway for 33 years and also ran the coastal boat and telegraph services on the island. Reid was knighted in 1907.\n\nThere is a $3,500 Robert Gillespie Reid Memorial Scholarship available for Memorial University of Newfoundland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893805", "title": "Slacklining", "text": "Slacklining\n\nSlacklining refers to the act of walking, running or balancing along a suspended length of flat webbing that is tensioned between two anchors. Slacklining is similar to slack rope walking and tightrope walking. Slacklines differ from tightwires and tightropes in the type of material used and the amount of tension applied during use. Slacklines are tensioned significantly less than tightropes or tightwires in order to create a dynamic line which will stretch and bounce like a long and narrow trampoline. Tension can be adjusted to suit the user, and different webbing may be used in various circumstances.\n\nUrbanlining or urban slacklining combines all the different styles of slacklining. It is practiced in urban areas, for example in city parks and on the streets. Most urban slackliners prefer wide lines for tricklining on the streets, but some may use narrow () lines for longline purposes or for waterlining. Also see the other sections of slackline styles below.\n\nOne type of urbanlining is timelining, where one tries to stay on a slackline for as long as possible without falling down. This takes tremendous concentration and focus of will, and is a great endurance training for postural muscles.\n\nAnother type of urbanlining is streetlining, which combines street workout power moves with the slackline's dynamic, shaky, bouncy feeling. The main focus are static handstands, super splits—hands and feet together, planche, front lever, back lever, one arm handstand and other interesting extreme moves that are evolving in street workout culture.\n\nTricklining has become the most common form of slacklining because of the easy setup of slackline kits. Tricklining is often done low to the ground but can be done on highlines as well. A great number of tricks can be done on the line, and because the sport is fairly new, there is plenty of room for new tricks. Some of the basic tricks done today are walking, walking backwards, turns, drop knee, running and jumping onto the slackline to start walking, and bounce walking. Some intermediate tricks include: Buddha sit, sitting down, lying down, cross-legged knee drop, surfing forward, surfing sideways, and jump turns, or \"180s\". Some of the advanced tricks are: jumps, tree plants, jumping from line-to-line, 360s, butt bounces, and chest bounces. With advancements in webbing technology & tensioning systems, the limits for what can be done on a slackline are being pushed constantly. It is not uncommon to see expert slackliners incorporating flips and twists into slackline trick combinations.\n\nHighlining is slacklining at elevation above the ground or water. Many slackliners consider highlining to be the pinnacle of the sport. Highlines are commonly set up in locations that have been used or are still used for Tyrolean traverse. When rigging highlines, experienced slackers take measures to ensure that solid, redundant and equalized anchors are used to secure the line into position. Modern highline rigging typically entails a mainline of webbing, backup webbing, and either climbing rope or amsteel rope for redundancy. However, many highlines are rigged with a mainline and backup only, especially if the highline is low tension (less than ), or rigged with high quality webbing like Type 18 or MKII Spider Silk. It is also common to pad all areas of the rigging which might come in contact with abrasive surfaces. To ensure safety, most highliners wear a climbing harness or swami belt with a leash attached to the slackline itself. Leash-less, or \"free-solo\" slacklining – a term loosely taken from rockclimbing (\"free\" refers to free of aid equipment vs free from the slackline) – is not unheard of, however, with proponents such as Dean Potter and Andy Lewis.\n\nSlackline yoga takes traditional yoga poses and moves them to the slackline. It has been described as \"distilling the art of yogic concentration\". To balance on a piece of webbing lightly tensioned between two trees is not easy, and doing yoga poses on it is even more challenging. The practice simultaneously develops focus, dynamic balance, power, breath, core integration, flexibility, and confidence. Using standing postures, sitting postures, arm balances, kneeling postures, inversions and unique vinyasa, a skilled slackline yogi is able to create a flowing yoga practice without ever falling from the line.\n\nSlackline yoga has been covered in \"The Wall Street Journal\", \"Yoga Journal\" and \"Climbing Magazine\".\n\nRodeo slacklining is the art and practice of cultivating balance on a piece of rope or webbing draped slack between two anchor points, typically about apart and off the ground in the center. This type of very \"slack\" slackline provides a wide array of opportunities for both swinging and static maneuvers. A rodeo line has no tension in it, while both traditional slacklines and tightropes are tensioned. This slackness in the rope or webbing allows it to swing at large amplitudes and adds a different dynamic. This form of slacklining first came into popularity in 1999, through a group of students from Colby College in Waterville, Maine. It was first written about on a website called the \"Vultures Peak Center for Freestyle and Rodeo Slackline Research\" in 2004. The article \"Old Revolution—New Recognition - 3-10-04\" describes these early developments in detail.\n\nWindlining is a practice of slacklining performed in very windy conditions. Depending on the intensity of the wind, it can be difficult to remain on the line without being blown off. The sensation one experiences is like flying as the slacker must angle his body and arms in an aerodynamic manner to maintain balance.\n\nWhile rope walking has been around in one manner or another for thousands of years, the origins of modern-day slacklining is generally attributed to a rock climber named Adam Grosowsky from southern Illinois in 1979 when he was sixteen. It got attention during the 2016 Rio Olympics when slackliner Giovanna Petrucci performed on the beach at Ipanema, attracting the attention of the \"New York Times\".\n\nA professional slackliner was credited with climbing a ski lift tower in Colorado and shimmying across a cable to save a man caught by a ski lift in January 2017.\n\nHighlining was inspired by highwire artists. The first successful highline walk is credited to 20-year-old Scott Balcom and 17-year-old Chris Carpenter who performed the first documented walk on nylon webbing highline. This highline, now referred to as 'The Arches' was approximately long and high located in Pasadena, California. On July 13, 1985, Scott Balcom successfully crossed the Lost Arrow Spire highline. In 1995, Darrin Carter performed unprotected crossings of the Lost Arrow Spire in Yosemite and The Fins, in Tucson, AZ on Mt. Lemmon highway. On July 16, 2007, Libby Sauter became the first woman to successfully cross the Lost Arrow Spire. In 2008, Dean Potter became the first person to BASE jump from a highline at Hell Roaring Canyon in Utah.\n\nIn Aiglun, France, on Tuesday, April 19, 2016, and Danny Menšík set a record for the longest highline walked – . The highline was high at its highest point. A new record for the longest highline walked was set in June 2017 by Nathan Paulin and Pablo Signoret in the Cirque de Navacelles in Southern France; the line was long and high. \n\nBetween September 15 and September 20, in Asbestos, Quebec, Samuel Volery, Anthony Hotte, Guillauem Fontaine, Anthony Boulay, Mia Noblet and Friedi Kühne walked a 1.9km long highline, which set a new world record. \n\nThis record was broken on July 27, 2019, by Mia Noblet of British Columbia and Lukas Irmler of Germany. Both managed to cross a slackline suspended more than above the open-pit Jeffrey Mine in Asbestos, Quebec, during Slackfest, a slackline and highline festival. Noblet completed her crossing in 58 minutes.\n\nThe longest free solo highline was walked at the Verdon Gorge in Southern France. At a length of 110m and height of 200m, it was walked by German Slackliner Friedi Kühne. The longest free solo highline by a female is held by Faith Dickey, who walked a 28-meter-long highline in Ostrov, Czech Republic in August 2012. The line was 25 meters high.\n\nThe highest slackline on record was walked by Christian Schou on August 3, 2006 at Kjerag in Rogaland, Norway. The slackline was high. The project was repeated by Aleksander Mork in September 2007.\n\nThe current world record for the highest urban highline is held by Friedi Kühne, Mia Noblet, Gennady Skripko, Vladimir Murzaev, Maksim Kagin, Alexander Gribanov, and Nathan Paulin. All seven athletes managed to walk a 220m long, 350m high slackline between Oko Tower and Neva Tower 2 in Moscow, on September 7. \n\nThe longest slackline, with a length of , was walked on May 9, 2015 by Alexander Schulz in Mongolia.\n\nThe longest slackline walked by a woman, with a length of , was walked in September 2014 in Lausanne (CH) by Laetitia Gonnon\n\nOn 28 April 2019 in Kislovodsk, Russia, Friedi Kühne and Lukas Irmler from Germany walked a 975m long, 200m high slackline entirely with their eyes closed, ensuring this with a blindfold strapped over their eyes. Thus they broke the world record for the longest blindfolded slackline walk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893815", "title": "Fish Leong", "text": "Fish Leong\n\nFish Leong (, born 16 June 1978) is a Malaysian singer. Having sold more than 18 million records, she achieved popularity and success in mainland China, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Singapore, and Malaysia.\n\nLeong was born in Bahau, Negeri Sembilan, Malaysia. She debuted her singing career in Taiwan and signed to Rock Records in October 1997. She then adopted the English name \"Fish\", because the last character of her Chinese name \"茹\" sounds the same as \"魚\" (fish) in Cantonese. Her debut album, \"Grown Up Overnight\", was released in September 1999. Her singing career managed to take off after the release of her second album, \"Courage\" (2000).\n\n\n\n\nIn February 2010, Leong married Taiwanese wine merchant Tony Chao in Boracay, Philippines, and their child Anderson Chao was born in April 2014. On September 8, 2019, Leong announced their divorce at a press conference for her new album in Taipei. She declined further comments on alleged cheating by Chao.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893826", "title": "Shahrdad Rouhani", "text": "Shahrdad Rouhani\n\nShahrdad Rohani also spelled Shardad Rohani ( or , born 27 May 1954 in Tehran) is an Iranian-American composer, violinist/pianist, and conductor. His style is contemporary and he is well known for composing and conducting classical, instrumental, adult contemporary/new age, film soundtrack as well as pop music. He has been the principal conductor and music director of the Tehran Symphony Orchestra since 2016. \n\nHe was born in 1954 in Tehran, Iran. His father, Reza Rohani, was an accomplished musician and as a result, Shahrdad and all of his brothers including Anoushiravan Rohani and Ardeshir Rohani followed in their father’s footsteps. He began playing the piano at age 6, like many of his other brothers. As a child, he was a student to a well-known Persian violinist, Ebrahim Rouhifar. At age 10 he attended the Persian National Music Conservatory of Tehran. By 1975, he was studying Music Composition and Conducting at the Vienna Music Academy. By 1984 Shahrdad moved to Los Angeles to attend University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA).\n\nFrom 1987 until 1991, Rohani served as the music director and conductor of the Committee on the Arts (COTA) symphony orchestra in Los Angeles. He has appeared as a guest conductor with a number of prestigious orchestras including London's Royal Philharmonic Orchestra, Minnesota Orchestra, Colorado Symphony Orchestra, San Diego Symphony, Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, New Jersey Symphony, Zagreb Philharmonic Orchestra, the American Youth Philharmonic Orchestras and many others.\n\nRohani arranged and conducted sixty piece orchestra to supplement Yanni's keyboard compositions during the \"Yanni Live at the Acropolis\" concert in 1993, it was an open-air concert with the London Royal Philharmonic Concert Orchestra in the Parthenon, Athens, Greece. Shahrdad also played the violin in all but two of the tracks during this concert. \"Yanni Live at the Acropolis \"was acclaimed by both critics and audience and became the most widely viewed program ever shown on Public Television in United States and is the second best-selling music video of all time.\n\nIn 1994, he became a US Citizen.\n\nRohani was commissioned in 1998 by the government of Thailand and the committee of the 13th Asian Games to compose and conduct the music for opening ceremonies. The composition became the most popular song of the Asian Games.\n\nIn 1999, Rohani received the Thailand's 'King's Golden Pikanes Award', the country's most prestigious music award for an outstanding orchestral performance. The award is considered the highest artistic achievement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893833", "title": "HKGolden", "text": "HKGolden\n\nThe HKGolden (Hong Kong Golden Forum; ) is an Internet forum for topics related to computer hardware and software among Internet users in Hong Kong in the early 2000s. HKGolden has become an Internet community. The forum is a part of HKGolden.com, a computer information portal named after the Golden Computer Centre – a shopping centre of computer products in Sham Shui Po, Kowloon, Hong Kong. Since 2006, it has become a popular and general platform for all Hong Kong netizen. It was the concentration platform of funny and satirical derivative works. However, due to the poor management of the administrators, many users have left in 2016.\n\nAccess to the website is blocked to users in the Chinese Mainland by the Great Firewall of China.\n\nIn the late 1990s, due to the popularity of the Internet, competition drove stores online. In an effort to protect consumers, the traders' association of the Golden Computer Centre launched the website with information about computer hardware and software prices, thus increasing the transparency of the marketplace. \n\nIn the early 2000s, a discussion forum was launched to complement the website. It was originally open in structure and without topic demarcation, and destined for computing matters. Very soon, its topics became broader-based, the discussion area segregated into \"computing\" and \"chill\" areas, each with their own topics or \"stations\". On-line discussion groups formed. The community, formed by ordinary citizens as well as computer geeks, would be interested in all manner of local topics. In the course of discussions, slang would be widely employed. Neologisms would often develop, and these would quickly pass virally into colloquial usage. Users are being called \"Son of Golden\" (高登仔), and the users call the other users \"brothers\" (巴打) and \"sisters\" (絲打).\n\nTopics are themed by hobby groups, and include 'Movies', 'Photography', 'Motoring', 'Music', 'Finance', 'Sport', 'Political' , etc. Although the name \"Hong Kong Golden Forum\" applies to the whole, this name is now usually synonymous with the \"Off-topic station\" within the forum due to its runaway popularity. At one time, forum members formed themselves into registered cliques, the most prominent ones being \"Big mouth\" and \"DIY\". HKGolden has become an influential media from which topics and exclusive news are frequently being reported on magazine and newspaper. Many people believe that reporters, police and even government may be active in the forum to investigate popular culture and public opinion.\n\nIn 2003, the website was sold to Fevaworks by the owner. In July 2003, the database was severely corrupted following a hacking incident, and the website had to be closed for maintenance until 25 August of that year, when the forum was once again re-opened.\n\nSince the incident, a number of changes were instigated:\n\nThe forum still repeatedly suffers from hacking; the last provoked stoppage occurred on 8 September 2006.\n\nOn 2009, the forum leaked a six-minute detailed video involving teenage prostitution on a double-decker bus for HK$200 to raise money for designer handbag. This led to local police launching a criminal investigation.\n\nIn Hong Kong, it was reported that HKGolden was the most visited place for technology brand related discussions with 87,291 posts in a single discussion channel within three months. Twitter remained as second destination with 27,236 posts. The local Eyny Forum followed with 8,683 posts. Yahoo! HK forum was at fourth with 7,538 posts. \nAs of 2019 March, HKGolden is the 12th top site in Hong Kong, according to Alexa.com.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893838", "title": "Bruce Small", "text": "Bruce Small\n\nSir Andrew Bruce Small OStJ (11 December 1895 – 1 May 1980) was an Australian businessman and politician. In Melbourne, he developed Malvern Star bicycles into a household name in Australia, then retired to the Gold Coast, Queensland, where he developed property, and as Mayor of the Gold Coast, promoted the area to Australia and the world as a family friendly holiday destination through the bikini-clad meter maids in Surfers Paradise.\n\nBruce Small was born in Ryde, New South Wales, in 1895. At the age of 24 in 1920 he bought an interest in the Malvern Star shop at 185 Glenferrie Rd, in the Melbourne suburb of Malvern, from Austral Wheel Race winner, Tom Finnigan. His brothers, Frank and Ralph Small, joined Bruce in his sales, building cycles at the rate of 5 per week.\n\nThe small cycle shop offered prizes in cycle races, resulting in Hubert Opperman winning a prize in 1921, and impressing Small so much that a job was offered to the young cyclist. Thus started a long relationship, as both friend and sponsor of Hubert Opperman.\n\nWith the Second World War affecting parts supply, Malvern Star bicycles started manufacturing many of its own parts for bicycles. Defence contracts help the growth of the business. At its peak after the Second World War, Malvern Star had 115 stores with 1,000 dealers.\n\nAfter the war, Small's Malvern Star bicycles were ridden by Sid Patterson, who won the \"World Championship Sprint\" in Copenhagen in 1949, and several other races including amateur \"World Championship Pursuit\" in Liege (1950), professional \"World Championship Pursuit\" in Paris (1952), and professional \"World Championship Pursuit\" in Zurich (1953). At the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne, Ian Browne and Tony Marchant won the gold medal in the Tandem on a Malvern Star.\n\nFrom 1945 Bruce Small owned land at Gowanbrae and promoted property development in Strathmore Heights, in Melbourne. In 1956 he bought 40 hectares of flood-prone mangrove land on the Nerang River, on the Gold Coast. He retired from his Malvern Star business in 1958. From 1958 to the mid-1960s, he pioneered canal developments based on 'proven U.S. methods' from the U.S. state of Florida. Bruce Small was also the brainchild behind the development of 100 private \"own your own\" flats Edgewater Towers, St Kilda, Victoria which at 13 storeys was the tallest residential apartment building in Victoria at the time it opened 4 March 1961. Bruce Small's long-term friend Sir Hubert Opperman lived in the building from the time it opened until his move to a retirement village in 1985.\n\nIn 1967, with the slogan \"Think Big, Vote Small\", he was elected Mayor of the Gold Coast, holding office till 1973. He was re-elected from 1976 to 1978. Like many politicians during this period, a time prior to the existence of conflict of interest laws, he saw no conflict between his duties as Mayor and his opportunities as a property developer.\n\nAfter a season of cyclonic storms which battered the Gold Coast in 1967, Small was instrumental in promoting this area as a family holiday destination through widespread appearances and promotions of the Surfers Paradise \"Meter Maids\", established in 1965, to attract tourists back to the area.\n\nFrom 1972 to 1977 he was elected to the Legislative Assembly of Queensland representing the seat of Surfers Paradise for the Country Party (later renamed the National Party of Australia). He was knighted in 1974 for his services to the Gold Coast and Queensland.\n\nThe Gold Coast City Council has named the \"Sir Bruce Small Park\" in Benowa, and \"Sir Bruce Small Boulevard\" after him.\n"}
{"id": "1893845", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893845", "title": "Douglas Townsend", "text": "Douglas Townsend\n\nDouglas Townsend (November 8, 1921 – August 1, 2012) was an American composer and musicologist. Born in Manhattan, Townsend became interested in composition while a student at the Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, in New York City. He taught himself composition, counterpoint and orchestration. In 1941, he began studying composition privately, with Tibor Serly, Stefan Wolpe, Aaron Copland, Otto Luening and Felix Greissle, among others.\n\nTownsend taught at Brooklyn College, CUNY (1958–69), Lehman College, CUNY (1970–71), the University of Bridgeport (Connecticut; 1973–5) and Purchase College (also known as SUNY Purchase) (1973–6). From 1977 to 1980, he was editor of Musical Heritage Review. Townsend’s research into 18th- and 19th-century music has resulted in editions, recordings and performances, most notably of a Carl Czerny overture and a mass by Sigismund Neukomm. He received research grants from the Martha Baird Rockefeller Fund (1965) and the New York State Council on the Arts (1975).\n\nTownsend’s compositions include several orchestral works, chamber music pieces, choral works, film and television scores, three operettas, and one opera. While still a high school student, he won a nationwide contest for student composers; Bernard Herrmann led the CBS Symphony Orchestra in a radio broadcast performance of the winning composition, \"Contra Dances\". Seven years later, Townsend achieved public notice as a composer when pianist Ray Lev performed the premiere of his \"Sonatina No. 1\" at Carnegie Hall. Townsend's own compositions generally used traditional forms and tonality.\n\nTownsend was married twice. His first marriage was to Anne-Marie Findley, and produced three children, Jonathan, Adam, and April. His second wife, Jean, survived him, as do his children from his first marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893851", "title": "Massachusetts Circular Letter", "text": "Massachusetts Circular Letter\n\nThe Massachusetts Circular Letter was a statement written by Samuel Adams and James Otis Jr., and passed by the Massachusetts House of Representatives (as constituted in the government of the Province of Massachusetts Bay, not the current constitution) in February 1768 in response to the Townshend Acts. Reactions to the letter brought heightened tensions between the British Parliament and Massachusetts, and resulted in the military occupation of Boston by the British Army, which contributed to the coming of the American Revolution.\n\nAfter the Stamp Act was repealed in 1766, the British Parliament imposed the Townshend Acts in 1767 as another way of generating revenue. The acts placed an import duty on glass, paint, paper, lead, and tea as well as establishing an American Board of Customs. In response, the Massachusetts General Court issued a circular letter. (A circular letter, also known as a circular, is a letter meant to be widely distributed, or \"circulated\".) The Massachusetts Circular Letter was sent to the representative bodies of the other colonies. Massachusetts received positive responses from New Jersey, Connecticut, and the Virginia House of Burgesses.\n\nIn the Circular Letter, Samuel Adams argued that the Townshend Acts were unconstitutional because the colony of Massachusetts was not represented in Parliament. Adams maintained that Parliament's status as the supreme legislative body of the British Empire did not permit it to violate the British Constitution and the natural rights of the colonists. Adams made it clear that he was not advocating colonial representation in Parliament: because the American Colonies were \"separated by an ocean of a thousand leagues\" from Great Britain, he thought it was impractical for them to be properly represented in Parliament. Instead, Adams argued in favor of the previous arrangement, where the colonies were taxed only by their own provincial assemblies in which they were already represented.\n\nAfter the Circular Letter had been passed and issued to other colonies, Lord Hillsborough, Secretary of State for the Colonies, ordered the Massachusetts General Court to revoke it. The body voted 92-17 not to do so. In response to the General Court's defiance, Governor Francis Bernard dissolved the assembly. This led to an outbreak of mob violence from colonists who no longer had any legal way to deal with their grievances. They attacked customs officials, making it impossible for them to perform their duties. In response to the deteriorating situation, Lord Hillsborough sent four regiments of British soldiers to Boston. Arriving in October 1768, the soldiers only increased the tensions, as recorded in the anonymously penned \"Journal of Occurrences\", which chronicled the occupation. These tensions culminated on March 5, 1770 with the Boston Massacre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893860", "title": "Francis Ferdinand de Capillas", "text": "Francis Ferdinand de Capillas\n\nFrancis Fernández (or Ferdinand) de Capillas, O.P. (15 August 1607 – 15 January 1648) was a Spanish Dominican friar who went as a missionary to Asia. He died in China as a martyr. He was canonized by Pope John Paul II on 1 October 2000, as one of the \"120 Martyrs of China\".\n\nCapillas is honored by the Holy See as the protomartyr among the missionaries in China, and is considered the glory and pride of the Dominican Order.\n\nDe Capillas was born in Baquerín de Campos, Palencia, Spain, on 14 August 1607. At the age of 17 he entered the Order of Preachers, receiving the religious habit in the Dominican Priory of St. Paul in Valladolid. While still a deacon he was sent by his Order to do missionary work in the Philippines, landing in Manila during February 1631. Shortly after his arrival he was ordained as a priest.\n\nDe Capillas remained there for the next decade, working alongside his fellow friars. His own field of labor was the district of Tuao, Cagayan Valley, on the island of Luzon, where many converted.\n\nDe Capillas considered that time spent in the Philippines as a period of preparation for a mission to China. At the Provincial Chapter held by the friars of the Order in Manila in 1641, he was given permission to transfer to the Order's mission there, soon transferring to that island, along with a friend, Friar Francisco Díez, O.P. He was one of the last Spanish missionaries in Taiwan before they were ousted from the island by the Dutch later that same year.\n\nThe two friars arrived in the Province of Fujian, on mainland China, in March 1642, where they joined a fellow Dominican who had survived an earlier period of persecution. They then engaged in evangelization among the Chinese people of the region, especially in the cities of Fu'an, Fogan and Ting-Moyang Ten. They were so successful that they were able to establish a community of the Third Order of Saint Dominic. On 4 November 1644, there was a huge change of fortune for the mission. That day, his friend Fr. Francisco Diez died of natural causes. Later the same day, the Manchurians invaded the city of Fuan, where the missionaries were based, in their conquest of the Ming Dynasty. The new dynasty was hostile to Christianity and immediately began to persecute the Christians.\n\nOn 13 November 1647, De Capillas was captured while returning from Fogan, where he had gone to administer the sacraments to a sick person. Enduring many insults, he was taken to the worst local prison, where he suffered the torture of having his ankles crushed while being dragged. He was scourged, repeatedly bloodied, but he endured the tortures without cries of pain, so that judges and torturers were surprised at the end. He was moved, almost dying, to a prison where they locked up those criminals condemned to death. His conduct was uplifting, and aroused the admiration of others sentenced to death and even the prison guards themselves, who allowed food to be brought to him, that he not die of hunger.\n\nWhile in prison, he wrote\n\nOn 15 January 1648 De Capillas was sentenced to death on charges of disseminating false doctrines and inciting the people against new Emperor. His death sentence, by decapitation, was carried out at Fogan the same day. He thus became the first martyr within the vast Chinese empire.\n\nDe Capillas was beatified by Pope Pius X, 2 May 1909, along with 14 Chinese laypeople who had also died as martyrs. He was canonized as part of a group of 120 martyrs of China on 1 October 2000, by Pope John Paul II. Their collective memory is on remembered 9 July, while the feast day of St. Francis Fernández de Capillas observed on 15 January. He is considered a protomartyr by the Holy See.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893861", "title": "Fremont Arts Council", "text": "Fremont Arts Council\n\nThe Fremont Arts Council (FAC) is a community-run organization that supports arts and artists. The Council resides in the Fremont, Seattle, Washington, but its members are from throughout the city.\n\nThe FAC believes that art establishes a bond between people. When people feel connected to their community, the community thrives. It serves the needs of local artists and community members by fostering a cooperative, collaborative environment for the creation and celebration of art.\n\nThere are three distinct areas of public programming: events, art and workshops. In turn, the community supports the FAC through partnerships with government, local businesses, and schools. It is an established and integral part of the neighborhood's business community and has healthy relationships with the Fremont Chamber of Commerce, Fremont Rotary Club, the local Seattle Public Schools and the Fremont Sunday Market.\n\nThe Fremont Arts Council was founded in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle, Washington, in 1979 with the belief that art establishes a bond between people and their neighborhood.\n\nThe Fremont Arts Council sponsors several annual events including the Summer Solstice Parade and Pageant, May Day, Troll-a-ween, and the Winter Solstice Feast.\n\nThe FAC's signature event is the annual Fremont Summer Solstice Parade & Pageant, which has grown over 25 years to become one of the premier outlets for public artistic expression in Seattle. The Solstice Parade is an outpouring of creativity and community during which hundreds of volunteers and tens of thousands of spectators transform the streets of Fremont into a roving theater.\n\nLuminata is a community-based event. Lanterns are made at the Arts Council Studio (The Powerhouse) through classes and open workshops. Held annually on the autumnal equinox, participants meet to walk around Greenlake with their lanterns at dusk, creating a long line of beautifully crafted light around the lake. Anyone in the community is invited to the classes, the workshops, and the event itself. Workshops and classes usually require a small fee.\n\nFAC has been responsible for the installation and maintenance of several public artworks in the Fremont area. These include the Fremont Troll and Waiting for the Interurban.\n\nOne of Seattle's most popular public artworks, the Fremont Troll, is a mixed-media megalithic statue, located on N. 36th Street at Troll Avenue N., under the north end of the Aurora Bridge. (Troll Avenue was renamed in its honor in 2005.) It is clutching an actual original Volkswagen Beetle, as if it had just swiped it from the roadway above. Somewhat amusingly, in light of Seattle P–I columnist Emmett Watson's periodic promotion of the KBO, the vehicle had a California license plate.\n\nThe piece was commissioned by the Fremont Arts Council in 1989, and built in 1990. The Troll was sculpted by four local artists: Steve Badanes, Will Martin, Donna Walter and Ross Whitehead. The Troll is interactive—visitors are encouraged to clamber on him or try to poke out his one good eye (a hubcap). The Troll is high, weighs two tons, and is made of steel rebar, wire and ferroconcrete.\n\n\"Waiting for the Interurban\" is a 1979 cast aluminum sculpture collection in the Fremont neighborhood of Seattle. It is located on the south side of N. 34th Street, just east of the northern end of the Fremont Bridge. It consists of six people, to say nothing of the dog, standing under a shelter and waiting for public transportation—specifically, the Seattle-Everett Interurban. (In actuality, the six figures would have waited for a very long time, as the Interurban ran on Fremont Avenue and never turned east on 34th.)\n\nThe sculptor, local resident Richard Beyer, included several subtleties in the sculpture which reward close viewing. There is also some gentle needling of a local Fremont political leader and pioneer in municipal recycling, Armen Napoleon Stepanian. People living and working in the Fremont neighborhood often dress the characters with apparel appropriate to the season (termed \"art attacks\" by some) to the extent that, when those unfamiliar with the sculpture drive by, it is not always immediately obvious as they pass that the characters waiting are actually statues. The most imaginative displays are memorialized at History House.\n\nThe sculpture is a few blocks west of Troll Avenue N., the location of the Fremont Troll.\n\nThe FAC regularly schedules events with local and international professional artists who give lectures and teach workshops to the community. In the past five years, the FAC has hosted artists from England, carnival experts from Trinidad, a performer and costume maker from Liberia and a sculptor from New York City. These artists have furthered the technical skills of the community and have significantly improved the quality of art the FAC produces. The FAC understands that involving local and international artists is invaluable in inspiring and empowering the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893868", "title": "Dicksoniaceae", "text": "Dicksoniaceae\n\nDicksoniaceae is a group of tropical, subtropical and warm temperate ferns, treated as a family in the Pteridophyte Phylogeny Group classification of 2016 (PPG I). Alternatively, the family may be sunk into a very broadly defined family Cyatheaceae \"sensu lato\" as the subfamily Dicksonioideae. Most of the genera in the family are terrestrial ferns or have very short trunks compared to tree ferns of the family Cyatheaceae \"sensu stricto\". However, some of the larger species can reach several metres in height. A number of others are epiphytes. They are found mostly in tropical regions in the Southern Hemisphere, as far south as southern New Zealand. Larger tree ferns in the genus \"Cibotium\" were formerly included in Dicksoniaceae, but are now segregated as the family Cibotiaceae.\n\nSpecies in the family are generally characterized by large pinnate fronds, 1–4 m long. The family includes several species of tree ferns, which grow a single trunk, notably the species in \"Dicksonia\". All members of the family have long, tapering hairs composed of cells arranged end to end, unlike the scales characteristic of the Cyatheaceae \"s.l.\"\n\nThe ferns of family Dicksoniaceae are generally regarded as more primitive than those of the family Cyatheaceae, having originated in the early Jurassic period.\n\nOnly three extant genera are recognised in this monophyletic family:\n\n"}
{"id": "1893869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893869", "title": "Bentheim-Bentheim", "text": "Bentheim-Bentheim\n\nBentheim-Bentheim was a county in southeastern Lower Saxony, Germany, the borders of which by 1806 were the modern borders of the District of Bentheim. This county was formed from the county of Bentheim in 1277, and from it was formed Bentheim-Steinfurt in 1454. Bentheim-Bentheim reemerged as a county in 1643 and was mediatised to Berg in 1806, before being annexed to France in 1810. It was granted to Hanover by the Congress of Vienna.\n\nGerulfingen\n\nGötterswyk\n\n"}
{"id": "1893873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893873", "title": "Annan, Dumfries and Galloway", "text": "Annan, Dumfries and Galloway\n\nAnnan ( ; ) is a town and former royal burgh in Dumfries and Galloway, south-west Scotland. Historically part of Dumfriesshire, its public buildings include Annan Academy, of which the writer Thomas Carlyle was a pupil, and a Georgian building now known as \"Bridge House\". The Town Hall was built in Victorian style in 1878, using the local sandstone. Annan also features a Historic Resources Centre. In Port Street, some of the windows remain blocked up to avoid paying the window tax.\n\nEach year on the first Saturday in July, Annan celebrates the Royal Charter and the boundaries of the Royal Burgh are confirmed when a mounted cavalcade undertakes the Riding of the Marches. Entertainment includes a procession, sports, field displays and massed pipe bands.\n\nAnnan stands on the River Annan—from which it is named—nearly from its mouth, accessible to vessels of 60 tons as far as Annan Bridge and 300 tons within of the town. It is from Dumfries by rail, in the region of Dumfries and Galloway on the Solway Firth in the south of Scotland. Eastriggs is about to the east and Gretna is about to the east.\n\nRoman remains exist nearby.\n\nAnnan Castle formed the original home of the de Brus family, later known as the Bruces, lords of Annandale, which most famously produced Robert the Bruce. It was at the Battle of Annan in December 1332 that Bruce supporters overwhelmed Balliol's forces to bring about the end of the first invasion of Scotland in the Second War of Scottish Independence. The Balliols and the Douglases were also more or less closely associated with Annan.\n\nBruce's Well is a natural spring that lies on the edge of the River Annan just downstream of the Gala Burn and Glen. It is associated with Robert the Bruce as recorded by Historic Environment Scotland.*Bruce's Well\n\nDuring the period of the Border lawlessness the inhabitants suffered repeatedly at the hands of moss-troopers and through the feuds of rival families, in addition to the losses caused by the Scottish Wars of Independence. During his retreat from Derby, Bonnie Prince Charlie stayed in the High Street at the inn where Back to the Buck now stands.\n\nWith the river embanked, Annan served as a maritime town whose shipyards built many clippers and other boats. A cairn on the jetty commemorates Robert Burns, who worked as an exciseman here in the 1790s. Although the port is now mainly dry, a few stranded boats remain.\n\nAnnan Academy has a history that goes back to the 17th century and alumni including Thomas Carlyle. Its current campus on St John's Road primarily dates to the 1960s.\n\nAfter the Acts of Union 1707, Annan, Dumfries, Kirkcudbright, Lochmaben and Sanquhar formed the Dumfries district of burghs, returning one member between them to the House of Commons of Great Britain. Annan previously formed a constituency of the Parliament of Scotland and the Convention of Estates. In 1871, the Dumfries Burghs had a population of 3,172 and the royal burgh of Annan had 4,174, governed by a provost and 14 councillors. A Harbour Trust was established in 1897 to improve the port.\n\nBy 1901, the population was 5,805, living principally in red sandstone buildings.\n\nThe train turntable was designed and developed in Annan; it can be seen today in the York Railway Museum.\n\nJust outside the town, the Chapelcross nuclear power station has now shut down and is being decommissioned. The four cooling towers were demolished in 2007.\n\nNearby, John Maxwell, 4th Lord Herries, built Hoddom Castle (–1565).\n\nTo the east of the town lies the settlement of Watchill and the similarly named Watchhall.\n\nPart of the A75 between Annan and Dumfries is reported to be haunted.\n\nAnnandale distillery has now officially re-opened in Annan, which last produced a Lowland Malt 90 years ago, although it is still in early stages.\n\nAnnan is served by several churches of different denominations, including:\n\nThere is also a local interchurch group, known as Annandale Churches Together.\n\nIn the 19th century, Annan was connected to the Glasgow & Southwestern Railway, the Caledonian Railway, and the Solway Junction Railway. It exported cured hams, cattle, sheep, and grain to England; it also produced cotton goods, ropes, ships, and salmon. By the First World War, it was also a center of bacon-curing, distilling, tanning, sandstone quarrying, and nursery-gardening.\n\nAnnan Bridge, a stone bridge of three arches, built between 1824 and 1827, carries road traffic over the River Annan. It was designed by Robert Stevenson and built by John Lowry. There is also a railway bridge and a nearby pedestrian bridge over the Annan. It is still served by the Annan railway station, the old Solway Junction Railway station Annan Shawhill having closed to passengers in 1931 and freight in 1955.\n\nAnnandale Way is a walking route that was opened in September 2009. The route runs through Annandale, from the source of the River Annan to the sea; it passes through the town of Annan and offers interesting walking both up river and down from the town.\n\n\n\nAttribution:\n\n"}
{"id": "1893874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893874", "title": "Whynot, Mississippi", "text": "Whynot, Mississippi\n\nWhynot is an unincorporated community located in Lauderdale County, Mississippi. Whynot is approximately southeast of Meridian on Mississippi Highway 19 and is part of Meridian, Mississippi Micropolitan Statistical Area.\n\nThe area was first served by a post office called Whitesville, which was established June 23, 1852, with Isham K. Pringle as first postmaster. The name was changed to Why Not (two words) on December 30, 1852, and was finally discontinued September 30, 1933, with mail thereafter going to Meridian.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893877", "title": "Jim Sundberg", "text": "Jim Sundberg\n\nJames Howard Sundberg (born May 18, 1951) is an American former professional baseball player, television sports analyst and executive. He played in Major League Baseball as a catcher from 1974 to 1989. A three-time All-Star player, Sundberg established himself as one of the top defensive catchers of his era by winning six consecutive Gold Glove Awards with the Texas Rangers. Later in his career, he won a World Series championship as a member of the Kansas City Royals in 1985. He also played for the Milwaukee Brewers and the Chicago Cubs. Sundberg was inducted into the Texas Rangers Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\nBorn in Galesburg, Illinois, Sundberg graduated from the University of Iowa. While attending the University of Iowa he joined the Delta Upsilon fraternity. On January 10, 1973, he was selected by Texas Rangers in the first round of the secondary free agent draft. \n\nOn April 4, 1974, Sundberg made the rare jump from Class A level baseball to the major leagues with the Rangers at the age of 22. As a rookie, Sundberg was selected to be a reserve in the 1974 All-Star Game and finished fourth in the Rookie of the Year balloting (teammate Mike Hargrove won the award). Sundberg had 101 assists in 1975, becoming the first American League catcher to have more than 100 assists in a season since the end of the Second World War.\n\nIn December 1983, after ten years with the Rangers, he was traded to the Milwaukee Brewers. After playing one season with the Brewers, he was traded to the Kansas City Royals.\n\nSundberg's veteran experience helped bolster the Royals' young pitching staff, and the team's combined earned run average improved to second best in the American League. The Royals went on to win the 1985 World Series. In Game Six of that series, Sundberg scored the dramatic ninth inning winning run by sliding into home plate, skillfully avoiding the tag of St. Louis Cardinals catcher Darrell Porter. Sundberg reached base when he laid down a bunt that resulted in a force out at third. In 1986, Sundberg helped the Royals pitching staff lead the league in earned run average, however they fell to third place in the American League's Western Division.\n\nSundberg was traded to the Chicago Cubs in 1987, before signing back with Texas where, at the age of 38 he ended his career at the end of the 1989 season.\n\nIn a sixteen-year major league career, Sundberg played in 1,962 games, accumulating 1,493 hits in 6,021 at bats for a .248 career batting average along with 95 home runs, 624 runs batted in and an on-base percentage of .327. His .993 career fielding average was 8 points higher than the league average over the span of his playing career. Sundberg led American League catchers six times in fielding percentage, putouts and assists. He completed 145 double plays in 1,962 games in his career, and holds the major league record for the best ratio of double plays to errors of any catcher in major league history behind the plate for at least 1,000 games. Sundberg still holds the American League record for games caught in one season with 155 in 1975.\n\nSundberg was the first catcher to win six American League Gold Gloves, although Bob Boone won five in the American League and two more in the National League. His 1976 Gold Glove was the first by any Rangers player. He caught 130 shutouts in his career, ranking him fifth all-time among catchers. Sundberg played more games as a catcher than any other player in Rangers history (1,512). At the time of his retirement, Sundberg had caught more major league games than any man in history except his contemporary Bob Boone. He still ranks fifth today. Richard Kendall of the Society for American Baseball Research devised an unscientific study that ranked Sundberg as the third most dominating fielding catcher in major league history.\n\nAfter retiring as a player, Sundberg became a color commentator on Rangers' television games from 1990 to 1995. He later served as a minor league instructor for the Rangers before joining their front office as an executive vice president of communications & public relations, executive director to the president, and director of business development from 2004 until his retirement at the end of the 2014 season. Galesburg High School named their main baseball field after Sundberg. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893889", "title": "Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda", "text": "Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda\n\nBentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda was a historical county located in northwestern North Rhine-Westphalia and southwestern Lower Saxony, Germany. Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda emerged as a partition of Bentheim-Steinfurt in 1606, and it was mediatised to Prussia in 1806.\n\nThe extant branches of the House of Bentheim are the Princes of Bentheim-Steinfurt with their family seat in Steinfurt , the Princes of Bentheim-Tecklenburg and the Counts of Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893890", "title": "USS Beale (DD-471)", "text": "USS Beale (DD-471)\n\nUSS \"Beale\" (DD/DDE-471), a , was the second ship of the United States Navy to be named for Lieutenant Edward Fitzgerald Beale (1822–1893).\n\n\"Beale\" was laid down on 19 December 1941 at Staten Island, N.Y., by the Bethlehem Steel Co.; launched on 24 August 1942; sponsored by Miss Nancy Beale, a great-grandniece of LT Beale; and commissioned on 23 December 1942 at the New York Navy Yard, Commander Joe B. Cochran in command.\n\nEarly in January 1943, \"Beale\" began shakedown training off the coast of New England. Later that month, she continued that training in the West Indies near Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. In mid-February, the destroyer returned north to New York for a month of post-shakedown repairs. She returned to sea on 15 March and headed back to the West Indies where she served as antisubmarine escort and plane guard for the recently commissioned aircraft carrier during her shakedown training near Trinidad. \"Beale\" completed another repair period at the New York Navy Yard between 10 and 21 March and then embarked upon the long voyage to the Pacific Ocean. Steaming by way of Norfolk, Virginia, she arrived at Cristóbal in the Panama Canal Zone on 22 April and transited the canal on the 28th.\n\nThe warship paused briefly at Balboa at the Pacific terminus of the canal before heading north toward the California coast that same day. She made an overnight stop at San Diego on 5 and 6 May before arriving in San Francisco on the 7th. Five days later, \"Beale\" put to sea on her way to the Hawaiian Islands. She entered Pearl Harbor on 22 May and spent the next six weeks conducting antisubmarine warfare (ASW) and gunnery training in the local operating area. On 6 July, the destroyer departed Oahu on her way back to California. She arrived in San Diego on the 11th and remained there until the 19th when she put to sea to participate in amphibious exercises carried out near Monterey on the 21st. The following day, \"Beale\" steamed into San Francisco.\n\nAfter a week's stay, she passed out of the Golden Gate again on 29 July and charted a course to the Aleutian Islands. On 5 August, the destroyer entered Kuluk Bay at Adak. Her tour of duty with the North Pacific Force lasted almost four months, but the only enemy she encountered was the foul climate. In mid-August, \"Beale\"'s guns joined in the bombardment preparatory to the amphibious assault on Kiska. When the troops landed, however, they discovered that the effort had been in vain. The Japanese had abandoned the island almost three weeks previously. For the remainder of her assignment in the Aleutians, the warship continued to struggle against the elements while carrying out patrol and escort missions. At the end of November, the destroyer departed Dutch Harbor and shaped a course south to Hawaii. She stood into Pearl Harbor about a week later but stayed only three days. When \"Beale\" resumed her voyage, she steered a course via Funafuti in the Ellice Islands and Espiritu Santo in the New Hebrides to Milne Bay, New Guinea. She reached her destination on 18 December. \"Beale\" spent the next seven months supporting General Douglas MacArthur's conquest of the northern coast of New Guinea and consequent isolation of the large Japanese bases in the Bismarck Archipelago at Rabaul on New Britain and Kavieng on New Ireland.\n\nShe wasted little time before getting into action. Just six days after her arrival, the destroyer was underway in company with an invasion force bound for Cape Gloucester on the western end of New Britain to secure the eastern flank of the vital Dampier Strait and Vitiaz Straits between that island and New Guinea. Her echelon, made up of seven tank landing ships (LSTs) escorted by three destroyers in addition to \"Beale\", arrived off the objective early on the 26th, and the LSTs beached during the afternoon watch.\n\nAt around 14:30, a large formation of enemy planes attacked the Allied force off Cape Gloucester. \"Beale\" escaped damage, and her gunners claimed a kill on an Aichi D3A-1 \"Val\" dive bomber. Her good luck, however, eluded several of her colleagues. suffered direct hits from two bombs that touched off a huge explosion, and she sank in less than 20 minutes with a loss of 108 crewmembers. , a battle-scarred veteran of Pearl Harbor, received new wounds when a hail of fragments from several near misses riddled her hull and superstructure and injured over 30 of her crew, four of them fatally. Near misses also caused damage and a few casualties on board . Later that same day while escorting \"LST-466\" in the vicinity of Borgen Bay, \"Beale\" encountered a Mitsubishi G4M \"Betty\" twin engine medium bomber pursued by three Republic P-47 \"Thunderbolt\" fighters. Her gunners joined the fracas, and the \"Betty\" soon went into the sea about distant on her port bow.\n\nAfter that action, the destroyer retired to the vicinity of Buna Roads and Cape Sudest, on the eastern coast of New Guinea south of the Dampier and Vitiaz Straits, in which neighborhood she remained until the beginning of 1944. On New Year's Day 1944, \"Beale\" departed Buna and rendezvoused with an assault force composed of nine high speed transports (APDs), two tank landing ships (LSTs), and several large landing craft (LCIs) with the 126th Regimental Combat Team (RCT) of the U.S. Army's 32d Infantry Division embarked. Seven other destroyers joined \"Beale\" in the escort. The force steamed northwest through Vitiaz Strait to Saidor, New Guinea, where the soldiers streamed ashore unopposed on the morning of 2 January to secure the left flank of the straits through which General MacArthur's forces would pass constantly during their leapfrog up the back of the New Guinea hen. \"Beale\" and her compatriots in the screen contented themselves with antiair and antisubmarine patrols during the landings.\n\nFor the next month, the warship divided her time between support for the Saidor operation and general patrol and escort missions along the New Guinea coast from Milne Bay to Saidor. On 5 February, \"Beale\" stood out of Milne Bay and set course for Sydney, Australia, where she carried out repairs from 9 to 23 February. Returning to Milne Bay on 27 February, she reported for duty with Task Force 74 (TF 74), a mixed force made up of American and Australian cruisers screened by American destroyers and commanded by Rear Admiral Victor A. C. Crutchley, VC, RN.\n\nWith both sides of the straits between New Guinea and New Britain free of Japanese interference, General MacArthur looked north to the Admiralty Islands whose capture would further shield his right flank during the advance and provide an alternative base to heavily defended Rabaul. Accordingly, on 27 February, \"Beale\" and her colleagues in TF 74 stood out to sea from Cape Sudest, New Guinea, just ahead of a task force composed of fast transports (APDs) and destroyers with elements of the Army's 1st Cavalry Division embarked. The troops were to serve either as the initial invasion force if resistance in the Admiralties was sufficiently light or as a reconnaissance in force to be withdrawn if opposition proved too heavy.\n\nArriving off Los Negros Island about two hours into the morning watch of 29 February, \"Beale\" accompanied and to a station north of Seeadler Harbor off Ndrilo Island to provide gunfire support for the landing force. At 07:40, she and her consorts opened fire on the island and continued to pound suspected enemy positions for about 15 minutes. The landing force's initial successes obviated the need for a second drubbing of the targets scheduled for the beginning of the forenoon watch. With all apparently going well ashore, the warship cleared the area in company with the rest of the task force, less two destroyers that remained behind to provide call fire, and steamed back to Cape Sudest.\n\nOn 4 March, she returned to the vicinity of the Admiralties with TF 74. After bombarding an enemy gun emplacement on Hauwei Island, her task force took up a patrol station about 30 miles (55 km) to the north of Manus. \"Beale\" remained on station with TF 74 for three days guarding the approaches to the Admiralty Islands while the troops ashore consolidated their hold on Los Negros Island and moved over to Manus. On the 7th, she made a visit to Hyane Harbor on Los Negros with Rear Admiral Russell S. Berkey embarked and then bombarded an enemy position on Moakareng Peninsula before rejoining the task force for the voyage back to Cape Sudest.\n\nFollowing a week of gunnery drills and tactical exercises, \"Beale\" joined , , , and in an anti-shipping sweep along the northern coast of New Guinea that was highlighted by a bombardment of Japanese installations at Wewak on 19 March. She patrolled off Oro Bay, New Guinea, on the 20th before carrying out repairs there between 21 and 27 March. The destroyer conducted antisubmarine warfare (ASW) exercises and more gunnery drills during the period 29 March to 8 April and then began another availability on 9 April at Milne Bay, New Guinea, that occupied her until the middle of the month.\n\n\"Beale\"'s return to combat came in mid-April during the three-pronged occupation of a portion of New Guinea's northern coast bounded by Tanamerah Bay in the west and Aitape in the east. The destroyer was assigned to Rear Admiral Russell S. Berkey's TF 75, built around light cruisers , , and and designated Covering Force \"B\" for the Hollandia mission. Her unit parted company with the main force about midnight on 21 April and reached its objective, Humboldt Bay, at about 05:00 on the 22d. At around 06:00 \"Beale\" and her consorts commenced a 15-minute preliminary bombardment. Those efforts, as well as the contributions added by TF 58 aircraft, prompted most of the supposed defenders to abandon their assignment and head for safer surroundings. As a consequence of the enemy's headlong flight, the assault troops enjoyed a landing that in amphibious circles might be regarded as a walkover, and Japanese resistance never really materialized.\n\nWith the landing's success assured, \"Beale\" cleared the area with Task Group 77.2 (TG 77.2) and arrived in Seeadler Harbor, Manus, the next day. After taking on fuel and provisions, the destroyer returned to sea on 26 April bound for the northern coast of New Guinea to resume support for the occupation of the region around Hollandia. She took up patrol station off Humboldt Bay on the morning of 27 April and, for the next several days, alternated between patrol duty, shore bombardment missions, and screening assignments with the aircraft carriers also supporting the troops ashore.\n\nEarly in May, the warship returned to Seeadler Harbor to prepare for the next hop in the leapfrog up the back of the New Guinea hen. Before embarking on that phase of the huge island's conquest, however, she joined and \"Bache\" to conduct a subsidiary mission in the vicinity of the bypassed Japanese base at Wewak where enemy shore batteries were hampering the work of Aitape-based PT boats. On 9 May, the three destroyers departed Manus for Aitape where, on the 11th, they embarked four PT boat officers to help them locate the targets. \"Beale\" and her colleagues carried out their bombardment on the 12th, returned the impromptu spotters to Aitape, and headed back to Manus.\n\n\"Beale\" reentered Seeadler Harbor in time to complete preparations for the Wakde-Sarmi step of the climb up the New Guinea ladder and sortie with the covering forces on 15 May. The destroyer and her colleagues took station off the objectives early on the morning of the 17th. After participating in the preinvasion bombardment, she and conducted a fruitless search for enemy barges reported to be in the vicinity of Sarmi. At the conclusion of that mission, \"Beale\" shaped a course for Humboldt Bay, where she arrived on the 18th. She returned to the Wakde-Sarmi area on 21 May and patrolled to the north and west with TF 75 while the troops ashore consolidated their beachhead and prepared to move inland against a much more resolute defense than had been encountered at Hollandia. The fact that the defense was confined entirely to enemy ground forces allowed the Army to proceed on its own once the beachhead was fully secured and to release most of its naval support to participate in the next amphibious operation on the New Guinea timetable, the seizure of Biak, one of the Schouten Islands located just to the east of the peninsula that constitutes the head of the New Guinea bird.\n\nAccordingly, \"Beale\" left the Wakde-Sarmi area and arrived back in Humboldt Bay on 24 May to join the Biak assault force. The following day, she returned to sea with that force to carry out the mission. Arriving off Biak on the 27th, the destroyer provided antisubmarine protection for the cruisers during their prelanding bombardment. After the landing, she moved in to bring her own guns to bear on enemy positions to assist the troops' movement inland. \"Beale\" patrolled off Biak until the end of May guarding the assembled warships against the submarine threat and supplying occasional gunfire support.\n\nAfter the invasion, the Japanese reversed their decision to leave Biak to its own devices and launched Operation \"Kon\" to reinforce the island's garrison. \"Beale\" returned to Humboldt Bay with TF 75 on 31 May to fuel and provision in preparation for the expected onslaught. On 7 June, the destroyer sortied from Humboldt Bay with TF 75 and shaped a course back to Biak. The cruiser-destroyer force took up station to the northeast of the island early in the evening of the 8th. An American patrol plane spotted the Japanese surface force attempting to bring reinforcements to Biak at about 22:00, and \"Beale\"'s force picked it up on radar about 80 minutes later. Not long thereafter, the enemy made visual contact on the Allied surface force, let go the barges they were towing to Biak, and launched torpedoes before retiring at high speed.\n\nThe Allied lead destroyers, \"Beale\" among them, charged toward the retreating enemy at flank speed and began firing at extreme range in the hope of closing the distance by forcing the Japanese to maneuver to avoid their salvoes. The enemy destroyers returned the fire and even launched another torpedo attack. The only damage – other than fragments from near misses – sustained by either side in the running duel, however, came at about 02:10 on the 9th when suffered a direct hit from one of the salvoes from Destroyer Division 47 (DesDiv 47). The enemy destroyer slowed briefly but picked up speed again soon thereafter. About 15 minutes later just before 02:30, the Allied force broke off the stern chase in compliance with orders issued to protect its ships from attack by friendly aircraft. Task Force 75 rendezvoused with TF 74 later that morning, and then \"Beale\" headed for Manus in the Admiralty Islands, where she spent the period 10 to 28 June carrying out maintenance work and conducting combat training.\n\nOn 29 June, the destroyer stood out of Seeadler Harbor on her way to participate in the last two major amphibious operations of the New Guinea campaign. Before invading the Vogelkop peninsula proper on its northwestern coast at Cape Sansapor, General MacArthur concluded that his forces needed airfields farther west than those the Allies already possessed, and the island of Noemfoor, though relatively well defended, met his requirements perfectly. \"Beale\" and her colleagues in the cruiser-destroyer force arrived off the invasion beaches at Kamiri on Noemfoor's northwestern coast early on the morning of 2 July, and they pummelled the objective with a preliminary bombardment that pounded the defenders into what historian Samuel Eliot Morison described as \"...that desirable state known to pugilists as 'punch drunk'.\" That happy result allowed the assault troops to storm ashore and capture all their initial objectives against a resistance that scarcely deserved the name. It also obviated the immediate need for \"Beale\" and her consorts to provide gunfire support for the troops' initial movement inland from the beaches. Accordingly, she headed for Humboldt Bay that same day and arrived there on the 3d.\n\nAfter maintenance and overhaul work at Hollandia and Manus she returned to the northern coast of New Guinea in mid-July to help defend the eastern flank of the Allied enclave at Hollandia against pressure from the bypassed enemy garrison at Wewak. Her part in that endeavor consisted of patrols along the coast to interdict Japanese barge and truck traffic carrying reinforcements and supplies to their forces trying to breach the Aitape roadblock and contest Allied possession of the Hollandia region. Training exercises and further patrols along New Guinea's northern coast occupied \"Beale\"'s time until the end of the month when she helped cover the unopposed landing at Cape Sansapor on the Vogelkop peninsula, the last rung on the New Guinea ladder.\n\nAt the beginning of August, she left New Guinea for a voyage to Australia and spent the period, 11 to 25 August, receiving major maintenance work at Sydney. Revitalized, the destroyer returned to the northern shores of New Guinea at the end of the month to resume patrols along stretches of the coast still held by isolated enemy forces and to prepare for the Allies' next move on the southwestern Pacific chessboard, the jump from the head of the New Guinea bird into the Molucca Islands at Morotai. \"Beale\" departed Humboldt Bay on 13 September and headed for the point near the Vogelkop where the warships covering the seizure came together for the approach. Reunited there with many of her colleagues from the long series of operations from the Bismarcks to the Vogelkop, the destroyer set off with them on the latest quest. The force arrived off Cape Gila on the southwestern coast of Morotai early on the morning of D-Day, 15 September, and the cruiser-destroyer force to which \"Beale\" belonged parted company with the main group to cross the strait between Morotai and Halmahera to bombard a Japanese strongpoint reported to be located at Galela. After pounding the target for more than an hour without reply, the destroyer accompanied her consorts back across the strait to provide gunfire support for the landing itself. Her guns, however, remained silent because an absent enemy allowed the assault troops to occupy the objective unmolested. Since her gunfire support proved unnecessary, \"Beale\" retired from Morotai and rendezvoused with TG 77.1 near Mios Woendi on the 16th.\n\nFor almost a month, she occupied her time with training exercises in the vicinity of the Admiralty Islands, evolutions punctuated by repair periods in Seeadler Harbor at Manus. By 12 October, the destroyer was back at Humboldt Bay readying herself for the invasion of the Philippines at Leyte. On the 13th, \"Beale\"'s Close Covering Group, TG 77.3, stood out of the bay in company with the Northern LST Group whose landings on Leyte near Tacloban at the head of San Pedro Bay it was to support. The warship and her colleagues escorted the Northern Attack Force into Leyte Gulf during the night of 19–20 October, and together they made their way toward the northwestern corner of the gulf. While the amphibious forces approached their stations and took up their positions, the battleships of the Fire Support Unit, North, subjected the target area to a withering barrage. At the conclusion of that overture, \"Beale\" and her compatriots in TG 77.3 moved in to play their supporting roles in the opening act of the performance. Her cruiser-destroyer force opened fire at about 09:00, and, about 30 minutes later when the assault craft started their runs toward shore, \"Beale\" and her mates shifted their attention inland.\n\nThe destroyer remained \"on call\" in San Pedro Bay for four days to provide gunfire support for the troops ashore whenever they requested it. During that space of time, she fought to repel frequent enemy air raids. Those attacks exacted a toll from \"Beale\"'s neighbors. On the 20th, a torpedo bomber scored a hit on that forced her return to the United States for repairs which occupied her for the remainder of the war. The next day, she fired upon a suicide plane but failed to prevent him from crashing . On the 22d, another kamikaze crossed her sights, but again her efforts to thwart him succeeded only partially. Though diverted from \"Beale\", he struck \"LCI-105\" in nearby waters.\n\nAt that point, danger loomed from a different quarter. By midday on the 23d, vague fears of a surface threat to the amphibious units assembled in Leyte Gulf began to take more tangible form as contact reports from submarines and aircraft confirmed the approach of at least three separate Japanese naval forces. The following afternoon, Vice Admiral Thomas C. Kinkaid organized his warships in the gulf to bar entry to the enemy. \"Beale\"'s unit headed south to await the forces of Vice Admiral Shoji Nishimura and Vice Admiral Kiyohide Shima in Surigao Strait, the passage between Leyte and Dinagat Islands. Posted on the right flank forward of the battle line, she participated in the second torpedo attack by destroyers on Nishimura's advancing warships just before 03:30 in the morning of 25 October. Though her own torpedoes failed to score on the enemy, several of those from her colleagues achieved their purpose. One hit battleship and slowed her briefly while another delivered the coup de grâce to destroyer , damaged almost an hour earlier by DesRon 54 in the first destroyer torpedo attack.\n\n\"Beale\" and her consorts then retired to give the cruisers and battleships a clear field of fire. Once the left flank destroyers executed the third torpedo attack and cleared the area, the battle line and the cruisers completed the destruction so ably initiated by the destroyers. Of Nishimura's two battleships, one heavy cruiser, and four destroyers, only the cruiser and a destroyer, both heavily damaged, escaped that encounter. The cruiser, , did not last long for the Japanese sank her later in the day after she suffered further pounding from both surface gunfire and aerial attacks.\n\nVice Admiral Shima's foray into Surigao Strait was a very desultory affair, and \"Beale\" and her colleagues, having already yielded the field to the heavy units after launching torpedoes at Nishimura's approach, never came in contact with the enemy's second, halfhearted attempt to force the strait. Upon confirming to his own satisfaction that Nishimura's force was effectively destroyed, Shima displayed surprising prudence for a Japanese commander by retreating with his own vastly inferior force.\n\nThe magnitude of the American victory increased as word of the successes won in the actions fought farther north off Samar and off Cape Engaño filtered into the gulf during the few days that \"Beale\" remained there guarding the amphibious force against submarine and air attack. On 29 October, the destroyer embarked upon a voyage that soon brought even more joy to her crewmen when they learned that their destination was the United States. Steaming by way of Ulithi Atoll and Pearl Harbor, she ended her transpacific journey at Seattle, Washington, on 27 November. From there, the warship headed south to San Francisco, where she began an extended repair period. She completed those repairs on 17 January 1945 and departed San Francisco the next day, bound for San Diego and two weeks of post-overhaul refresher training. On the last of day January, \"Beale\" stood out of San Diego on her way to rejoin the Pacific Fleet in prosecuting the final stages of the war against Japan.\n\n\"Beale\" arrived in Hawaii on 8 February and, the following day, commenced gunnery and antisubmarine warfare training in the local operating area. She remained so engaged for nearly a month and, as a consequence, missed out on the assault on Iwo Jima carried out on 19 February; but she put to sea for the western Pacific in plenty of time to be on hand for the invasion of Okinawa. The destroyer sailed from Pearl Harbor on 5 March and, after a voyage that took her back via Ulithi Atoll, arrived at Leyte once again on St. Patrick's Day 1945 to be incorporated into the fleet gathering there for the assault on the Ryukyu Islands.\n\nAfter 10 days of preparations, she stood out of Leyte Gulf on 27 March in the screen of a fast echelon of TF 55, the Southern Attack Force, and set a course for Okinawa. \"Beale\" and her companions caught up with the slower echelons of the task force along the way, and together they arrived off the objective early in the morning of 1 April — Easter Sunday, April Fool's Day, and L-Day for Okinawa all rolled into one. Later that morning, 5th Fleet staged its own version of an Easter parade when the vast amphibious force there assembled landed soldiers of the XXIV Army Corps and Marines of the III Amphibious Corps on the island's western coast at beaches to either side of the mouth of the Bisha River. At that point, the destroyers in the screen received other assignments, and \"Beale\" joined TF 54, the Gunfire and Covering Force, to serve as a seaborne artillery battery for the Army and Marine Corps while they consolidated their beachheads and started their advance inland.\n\nBoth the troops ashore and their brethren supporting them in the warships afloat marveled at the enemy's feeble responses to the initial assault. The relative ease of that first thrust, however, only masked the gathering storm; and the calm lasted but a few days. On shore, the soldiers began to run into stiffer opposition as the first week drew to a close; and, by the opening of the second week, so had the marines. The land campaign became a ponderous slugfest that dragged on until early July. At sea, the \"Divine Wind\" blew on the fleet surrounding Okinawa for the first time on 6 and 7 April. During that first of eight major aerial assaults that the Japanese launched upon the ships at Okinawa, \"Beale\"'s guns contributed to the antiaircraft barrage with which those ships tried to defend themselves. In spite of that collective effort, some of the intruders succeeded in their missions.\n\nIn one such instance on the afternoon of the 6th, her sister ship suffered crashes by four kamikazes in the space of an hour while on station some 10 miles (18 km) north of Zampa Misaki. Another sister, nearby , went to \"Newcomb\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s aid immediately while more distant \"Beale\" rushed to offer her help as well. When the fourth suicide plane to hit Newcomb slid across to \"Leutze\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s fantail before exploding, the damage he caused forced her to pull away from \"Newcomb\"'s side and leave \"Beale\" to succor Newcomb alone. As a result of the prompt assistance \"Beale\" and \"Leutze\" rendered, \"Newcomb\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s crew quelled the raging inferno on board their ship within half an hour, and busy towed her into the anchorage at Kerama Retto the following day.\n\nAfter seeing \"Newcomb\" and \"Tekesta\" safely into Kerama Retto, \"Beale\" resumed duty with TF 54 providing gunfire support for the troops on Okinawa. Though call fire remained one of the warship's primary missions during her 12 weeks of service in the Ryūkyūs, the frequency and intensity of the Japanese aerial counterstrokes diverted her attention incessantly from that assignment to air defense. Antiair warfare also intruded upon her other major role at Okinawa, service in the ubiquitous antisubmarine screen. In providing protection from both submarines and aircraft, \"Beale\" divided her time between the gunfire support units and the ships that retired each night to safer waters some distance from the shores of Okinawa.\n\nThe desperate, aerial tactics that the Japanese relied upon as their response to the Okinawa invasion, however, made antiair warfare the predominate form of combat carried out by Navy units in the campaign. \"Beale\", therefore, continued to cross swords with enemy aviators throughout her participation in the island's subjugation. On 16 April, while she screened the fire support ships of TG 51.5 near Ie Shima, three enemy planes attempted attacks on \"Beale\". Her gunfire damaged the first intruder – misidentified as a German Focke-Wulf Fw 190 — when he tried a suicide dive, and he splashed into the sea well clear of the ship. Almost immediately, though, two \"Val\" dive bombers pushed over into conventional bombing attacks, coming in on \"Beale\"'s starboard side abeam. Her guns opened up on them at a distance of about and continued to fire until a Marine Corps F4U \"Corsair\" flew into her field of fire in his attempt to intercept the two \"Vals.\" The destroyer ceased fire quickly, but all three planes, the two enemies and one friend, splashed into the ocean at some distance from \"Beale\". Fortunately, the \"Corsair\" pilot managed to bail out, and a destroyer escort rescued him.\n\nDuring the month of May, the warship experienced two more close calls with Japan's airborne fanatics. After dark on the 4th, a single engine plane, unrecognizable in the darkness, tried to crash \"Beale\"; but again her gunners rose to the challenge and sent the interloper tumbling into the sea a scant away on the port beam. On 28 May, another \"Val\" sought to make \"Beale\" his funeral pyre; but he, too, succumbed to her antiaircraft barrage and fell into the sea close aboard.\n\nBy the beginning of June, enemy resistance at Okinawa was on the ebb, both in the air and on the ground. Few planes penetrated the cordon of radar pickets stationed around the island with any regularity or frequency, and the land defense found itself bottled up in several relatively isolated pockets. On 3 June, \"Beale\" helped to eradicate of one of those pockets when she supported the landings on Iheya Retto, one of Okinawa's satellite island groups located about 11 miles (20 km) north of the Motobu Peninsula. Organized resistance in the Ryūkyūs ended at the start of the last week in June, and the campaign for Okinawa closed officially on 2 July.\n\nIn the meantime on 24 June, \"Beale\" shaped a course for Leyte in the Philippines, where she conducted some minor repairs and took on supplies. The destroyer returned to Okinawa on 16 July and joined TF 95, the unit with which she spent the next three weeks of carrying out antishipping sweeps along the China coast, in the Yellow Sea, and in the Sea of Japan. She returned to Okinawa on 8 August, and the war ended during the four weeks that she remained there. Japan agreed to capitulate on 15 August, and her representatives signed the surrender document on 2 September. \"Beale\" departed Buckner Bay on 6 September and laid in a course for Japan. She arrived in Nagasaki on the 15th and began duty in support of the Allied occupation. During the next two months, she visited several Japanese ports while engaged in courier duty, demilitarization inspections, and escort missions.\n\nOn 15 November, the destroyer stood out of Sasebo for the voyage back to the United States. \"Beale\" steamed by way of Pearl Harbor and arrived in San Diego on 6 December. Four days later, she returned to sea bound for the East Coast. The warship transited the Panama Canal on the 18th and entered port at Charleston, South Carolina, two days before Christmas 1945. Following a three-month inactivation overhaul, \"Beale\" was decommissioned at the Charleston Navy Yard on 11 April 1946. She remained in reserve for almost six years.\n\nWhile still part of the inactive fleet, the warship was moved to the Boston Naval Shipyard for conversion to an escort destroyer. Redesignated an escort destroyer, DDE-471, \"Beale\" was recommissioned at Boston on 1 November 1951, CDR Frank H. Price, Jr., in command. She remained at Boston finishing her conversion until the second week of 1952. On 8 January, she embarked upon her shakedown cruise which, after a short visit to Norfolk, Virginia, she conducted in the West Indies. After post-shakedown availability at Boston between late March and early May, she reported for duty with the Atlantic Fleet at Norfolk on 5 May. Near the end of the month, the destroyer headed for the Gulf of Mexico where she spent the month of June operating as planeguard for during training operations out of Pensacola, Florida She returned to Norfolk on Independence Day 1952 and resumed normal operations from that port. Training duty in the Virginia Capes operating area and upkeep at Norfolk occupied her time for the remainder of 1952. Late in January 1953, \"Beale\" moved south on her way to the large annual fleet exercise called \"Springboard.\" After preliminary drills with off the Florida coast near Mayport, she continued on to the vicinity of Puerto Rico where the maneuvers were carried out in late February and early March. The warship arrived back in Norfolk on 13 March and stayed there for a little more than a month. On 17 April, she stood out of Chesapeake Bay bound for exercises in the waters around the British Isles, followed by a short cruise in the Mediterranean. During that deployment, she visited Londonderry in Northern Ireland and Plymouth, England, before transiting the Strait of Gibraltar to call at Golfe Juan, France, and Naples, Italy. The destroyer departed Naples on 13 June, plotted a course back to the United States, and reentered Norfolk on the 26th.\n\nShe conducted local operations during July and the first part of August and then sailed north to the coast of Nova Scotia where she spent the rest of August serving as planeguard for . \"Beale\" arrived back at Norfolk on 4 September and took up the usual routine of local operations and upkeep until the beginning of October. On 2 and 3 October, she made the short voyage to New York where she began a three-month overhaul, her first since rejoining the active fleet. After refresher training off the Cuban coast near Guantanamo Bay early in 1954, the destroyer returned to Norfolk in March to prepare for an assignment overseas. On 11 May, she embarked on a tour of duty in the Mediterranean Sea. Service with the 6th Fleet kept her busy until early that fall when she headed back to the United States. \"Beale\" reached Norfolk again on 10 October 1954. The warship spent the rest of the year in port.\n\nIn January 1955, she took up East Coast operations once again, ranging from Newport, Rhode Island in the north to Puerto Rico and Key West in the south. \"Beale\" remained so engaged until late May when she began six weeks of upkeep at Norfolk. At the end of the first week in July, she departed Norfolk and headed back to Newport whence she conducted exercises with carriers briefly before proceeding to the vicinity of Bermuda where she carried out operations with recently commissioned . After assisting in the evaluation of the capabilities of the first nuclear-powered submarine, \"Beale\" stood into Norfolk once more on 6 August. A month later, she returned to sea for an abbreviated deployment overseas to participate in two NATO exercises, Operation \"Centerboard\" and Operation \"New Broom IV\", both of which were carried out in the Atlantic off Portugal. Leaving Lisbon on 10 October, the destroyer reentered Norfolk on the 23d.\n\nFollowing an upkeep and repair period that lasted through the end of the year, \"Beale\" resumed local operations off the Virginia Capes early in January 1956. In mid-February, the warship headed south to participate in the annual \"Springboard\" fleet exercise carried out in the waters between Cuba and Puerto Rico. Back in Norfolk on 22 March, she conducted type training and similar evolutions in the immediate vicinity through the end of May. On the 31st, \"Beale\" left Hampton Roads bound for the Gulf of Mexico where she engaged in further training missions punctuated by visits to Pensacola, New Orleans, and Galveston. The destroyer departed the latter port on 5 July and headed home, arriving back in Norfolk on the 9th. Regular overhaul at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard occupied her time from the middle of July until early November. On 10 November, \"Beale\" put to sea for Guantanamo Bay, Cuba, and a month of post-overhaul refresher training. Back in Norfolk a week before Christmas, she drilled in the local operating area through the first 11 weeks of 1957.\n\nOn 18 March, she embarked upon a voyage in the course of which she circumnavigated the African continent. Unable to use the Suez Canal, closed as a result of the hostilities between Israel and Egypt that followed in the wake of Nasser's nationalization of the canal the preceding summer, the warship deployed to the Indian Ocean via the long route around southern Africa. Steaming by way of the Azores, \"Beale\" reached the African coast at Freetown, Sierra Leone, on 30 March. She visited Simonstown, Union of South Africa, from 10 to 12 April before rounding Cape Agulhas, Africa's southernmost point, on her way to Mombassa, Kenya. After leaving Mombassa, the destroyer sailed to the Persian Gulf where she called at Qeshm, Iran, and Bahrain. From the Persian Gulf, she headed for the reopened Suez Canal via Massawa, Eritrea (now a province of Ethiopia). \"Beale\" transited the canal at the beginning of June and arrived at Piraeus, Greece, on the 4th. Between 5 and 14 June, she crossed the Mediterranean Sea to Spain where she spent the ensuing four weeks making calls at the ports of Valencia, Cartagena, and Barcelona. Following a two-day stop at Gibraltar, she embarked upon the voyage across the Atlantic on 14 July and stood into Norfolk again on 26 July.\n\n\"Beale\"'s homecoming lasted less than six weeks, however, for she put to sea again on 3 September bound for the British Isles. She arrived in Plymouth, England, on the 14th and spent the rest of the month engaged in NATO Exercise \"Stand Firm.\" At the conclusion of the exercise, the destroyer paid a 10-day visit to Cherbourg. On 10 October, she left the French port to return to the United States. \"Beale\" entered Chesapeake Bay once more on 22 October and resumed normal operations along the East Coast.\n\nNear the end of March 1958, \"Beale\" received word of the cancellation of her scheduled deployment to the Mediterranean in favor of an assignment with Task Group Alfa, an experimental group formed to develop and teach new and advanced antisubmarine defense techniques and procedures. For more than five years, her work with the ASW developmental group kept her tied fairly closely to the East Coast and precluded any tours of duty farther away from the United States than the West Indies.\n\nThat extended assignment did not prevent her from participating in internationally significant events, however, for, after Fidel Castro's insurgents succeeded in overthrowing the dictatorship of Fulgencio Batista in Cuba in 1959, ships of the Navy performed almost constant patrols off that troubled island. \"Beale\" carried out her first such mission between 13 and 26 April 1961, and her second tour of duty in Cuban waters lasted from the end of June until mid-August 1962. On 30 June 1962, she resumed her former destroyer classification and the designation, DD-471. Later that year, after reconnaissance flights over the island revealed the presence of offensive nuclear missiles, President John F. Kennedy declared a \"quarantine\" of Cuba to prevent the importation of additional missiles and to secure the removal of those already in place. \"Beale\" served on the Cuban missile crisis \"blockade\" from 25 October to 5 November 1962. During these operations, on Saturday, 27 October, the \"Beale\" dropped practice depth charges on Soviet submarine \"B-59\" (Foxtrot) class, after which the submarine surfaced, upon which the \"Beale\" closed to within 500 yards on a parallel course, illuminating the Soviet vessel with its 24-inch searchlight (deck log excerpts of USS \"Beale\", available at National Security Archives, \"National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 75\", Section II, item 13). It was later revealed from Soviet sources that the depth-charging by the \"Beale\" had caused the commander of the Soviet submarine, Savitsky, who was unable to establish radio contact with base, to consider firing a 15-kiloton nuclear torpedo, and had asked two other senior officers to vote, with the dissenting vote of Vasili Arkhipov preventing the launch.\n\nAfter an additional year of service along the East Coast and in the West Indies, \"Beale\" completed preparations in November 1963 to embark upon her first major overseas deployment in more than half a decade. On the 29th, she stood out of Norfolk on her way across the Atlantic Ocean. The warship arrived in Pollensa Bay, Majorca, on 11 December and relieved \"McCaffrey\" (DD-860) the following afternoon. During her first eight weeks with the 6th Fleet, normal activities such as exercises and port visits occupied her time. Early in February 1964, however, orders sent her to the eastern Mediterranean where she joined a contingency force brought together in response to trouble on the island of Cyprus. Service with the contingency force received her undivided attention until the first week in March. Afterwards, \"Beale\" made a six-day liberty call at Istanbul, Turkey, and then returned to sea for further duty in the eastern Mediterranean, an assignment that included NATO exercises in the Ionian Sea. Late in March, she returned to the western portion of the \"middle sea\", where she spent the remaining six weeks of her deployment. Completing turnover formalities at Pollensa Bay near the end of the second week in May, \"Beale\" transited the Strait of Gibraltar on the 14th and shaped a course for Hampton Roads.\n\nTen days later, she arrived at Norfolk and commenced post-deployment standdown. The destroyer remained in port for over a month, getting underway again early in July for an Independence Day visit to Baltimore, Maryland Following the celebration, she embarked upon the familiar routine of training missions along the East Coast and in the West Indies. That employment took up her time for the remainder of 1964, while a regular overhaul at Norfolk occupied her during the first few months of 1965. After refresher training out of Guantanamo Bay in the summer of 1965, \"Beale\" resumed normal operations from Norfolk.\n\nAfter nearly a year of training duty out of her home port, she departed Norfolk on 1 June 1966 bound for the Far East and her first combat assignment in more than two decades. On the outward voyage, she traveled by way of the Panama Canal, Hawaii, and Guam before arriving at the 7th Fleet's base at Subic Bay in the Philippines near the end of the second week in July. Following a tour of duty as station ship at Hong Kong, \"Beale\" entered the combat zone in the waters adjacent to Vietnam on 24 July. The next day, she began service as a gunfire support ship on the \"gunline\" just off the Vietnamese coast. At the end of two weeks as a floating artillery battery, the warship returned to Subic Bay to replenish and perform maintenance. Late in August, \"Beale\" resumed duty on the \"gunline.\" In September and October, she served in the screen of the carrier, . Early in November, the destroyer concluded her final tour in the combat zone and began the voyage home. Steaming via the Indian Ocean, the Suez Canal, the Mediterranean Sea, and the Atlantic Ocean, she completed a circumnavigation of the globe when she pulled into Norfolk on 17 December.\n\nThe extended standdown period that \"Beale\" began upon her return lasted well into 1967. The destroyer did not put to sea again until March, two weeks of which she spent carrying out type training in the Virginia Capes operating area. On 10 April, the warship stood out of Chesapeake Bay for Key West and nearly a month of duty as a school ship for the Fleet Sonar School located there. Back in Norfolk on 8 May, \"Beale\" remained relatively inactive until June when she participated in Exercise \"New Look\", a 36-ship ASW training effort that involved units of four NATO navies. In July, a board of inspection and survey looked her over and mandated a restricted availability, which she carried out at Baltimore, Maryland, in August. She resumed normal operations out of Norfolk in September, and those evolutions occupied her until the middle of October when she started preparations for her final deployment overseas.\n\nOn 14 November, the warship passed between Capes Henry and Charles and laid in a course for the Mediterranean Sea. Steaming in company with a quartet of DesRon 32 destroyers that included \"Beale\"'s sister ship and frequent colleague , she arrived in Pollensa Bay, Majorca, on the 24th. She spent the bulk of her last deployment in the western Mediterranean, sailing east of the Italian \"boot\" only once when she entered the Adriatc in late January 1968 to call at Split, Yugoslavia. Her activities in the western basin consisted of a mix of exercises – unilateral, bilateral, and multilateral in composition – and visits to a variety of French and Italian ports, as well as one brief call at Malta. After being relieved by at Málaga, Spain, \"Beale\" got underway for Norfolk on Easter Sunday 1968. A note of sadness, however, intruded upon the satisfaction usually associated with a homeward bound voyage. Of the four DesRon 32 ships that had accompanied her to the Mediterranean the previous fall, only three joined her in the return trip. A storm at Rhodes early in February had reduced \"Bache\", her frequent comrade over the years, to an unsalvageable wreck. \"Beale\" and her depleted complement of traveling companions arrived back in Hampton Roads on 23 April.\n\nFollowing post-deployment leave and upkeep, \"Beale\" commenced her last weeks of operations with the Navy late in May. She steamed north to Newport, Rhode Island, where she served as a training platform for the Destroyer School until the latter part of June. On 25 June, the warship returned to Norfolk and began preparations for another review by a board of inspection and survey. The inspection, carried out at the Norfolk Naval Shipyard early in August, resulted in a recommendation that \"Beale\" be retired. She was decommissioned at Norfolk, Virginia on 30 September 1968,\n\nand her name was struck from the Naval Vessel Register on 1 October 1968. The former warship performed her last service to the Navy on 24 June 1969 when she was sunk as a target about 250 miles (460 km) east of the mouth of Chesapeake Bay.\n\n\"Beale\" earned six battle stars for World War II service and one battle star during the Vietnam War.\n\nU.S. and Soviet Naval Encounters During the Cuban Missile Crisis, National Security Archive Electronic Briefing Book No. 75\n\n\"Thank you Vasili Arkhipov, the man who stopped nuclear war\", Edward Wilson, TheGuardian.com, 27 October 2012\n\n"}
{"id": "1893905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893905", "title": "Moose Jaw Warriors", "text": "Moose Jaw Warriors\n\nThe Moose Jaw Warriors are a major junior ice hockey team in the Western Hockey League based out of Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan. The team plays its home games at Mosaic Place. The franchise moved to Moose Jaw from Winnipeg after the 1983–84 season, where they were known as the Winnipeg Warriors. The Warriors played in the Moose Jaw Civic Centre also known as \"The Crushed Can\" for 26 seasons, before moving to Mosaic Place in the city centre. The team has never won the WHL championship.\n\nIn 2006, the team went on a successful playoff run eliminating the Brandon Wheat Kings, Calgary Hitmen and Medicine Hat Tigers, before being swept in four games by the Vancouver Giants in the WHL Finals.\n\n\"Note: GP = Games played, W = Wins, L = Losses, T = Ties OTL = Overtime losses Pts = Points, GF = Goals for, GA = Goals against\"\n\n\n<section begin=roster /><br>\n\nList of Moose Jaw Warriors alumni to have played in the National Hockey League.\n\n\nMortimer \"Morty\" J. Moose is the current Warriors Mascot. His Initials (MJ) pay homage to the home city. Mortimer is the 3rd installment of the Warriors Mascot, after \"Tommy Hawk\", and the inaugural \"Puck Head\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893913", "title": "Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway (1990)", "text": "Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway (1990)\n\nThe Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway is a Class II regional railroad that provides freight service, mainly in the U.S. state of Ohio. It took its name from the former Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway, most of which it bought from the Norfolk and Western Railway in 1990.\n\nThe W&LE Railroad began standard gauge operations under investor Jay Gould in 1880. Its mainline ran from Wheeling to Zanesville to Cleveland, and it ran freight and passenger trains primarily between those cities. Passenger service ended in 1940 just before the start of WW2. In 1949, the New York, Chicago, & St. Louis Railroad, or Nickel Plate Road as it was known, leased the W&LE. In 1964, the Nickel Plate combined with the Norfolk and Western RR.\n\nIn 1990, the Norfolk and Western Railway, a subsidiary of the Norfolk Southern Railway, sold portions of its lines in Ohio and Pennsylvania, including most of the lines of the former W&LE and the Akron, Canton and Youngstown Railroad, as well as a lease on the Pittsburgh and West Virginia Railroad, to the Wheeling Acquisition Corporation. The name was changed to the Wheeling and Lake Erie \"Railway\" in May, before operations began. At its formation, trackage rights on Norfolk Southern were extended to the new organization to serve several limestone quarries in the Bellevue, Ohio area, and trackage rights with CSX Transportation from Connellsville, Pennsylvania to Hagerstown, Maryland, this being a remnant of the 1950s Alphabet Route of which the original W&LE was a part. W&LE Ry also maintains trackage rights from Wellington to Cleveland on CSX.\n\nThe only portions of the original W&LE operated by companies other than the current W&LE are the NS line west of Bellevue (W&LE now has trackage rights to Toledo on this line, obtained after the Conrail split in 1999); the former Cleveland Division line south of Harmon (Brewster) that was sold to Ohio Central Railroad by NS in 1988; and the Huron docks trackage. The Huron Branch, W&LE's first line between Norwalk and Huron, was acquired by W&LE but was never activated north of the Norwalk city limits and was later removed in its entirety. W&LE still serves the Huron Docks using trackage rights on NS's former Nickel Plate Road line from Bellevue and a connecting line to the docks built by the NKP in 1952. A few other small portions of the original W&LE and AC&Y have been abandoned and/or replaced with trackage rights on parallel lines by W&LE.\n\nW&LE also has trackage rights to Lima, Ohio, that originally used CSX lines from Carey to Upper Sandusky to Lima, but after the lease of the CSX line (the former Pennsylvania Railroad Fort Wayne Line) by RailAmerica's Chicago, Fort Wayne and Eastern Railroad, W&LE now uses trackage rights from its lines at New London to Crestline, Ohio on CSX, then west on the CF&E to Lima. These trackage rights were also a result of the Conrail split.\n\nW&LE lines interchange with three major Class I railroads (Canadian National Railway, CSX Transportation, and the Norfolk Southern Railway). Many of the major commodities remain the same as in the early days: coal from southeastern Ohio; iron ore from the Great Lakes region; steel from five different mills; aggregates from four quarries; plus chemicals, forest products, and grain, generating approximately 130,000 carloads annually.\n\nBranch lines reach as far south as Benwood, West Virginia (just south of Wheeling) and as far east as Connellsville, Pennsylvania. The W&LE joins the Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad at Owensdale, Pennsylvania. The W&LE currently owns of track and retains trackage rights on another .\n\n"}
{"id": "1893919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893919", "title": "Lenny Waronker", "text": "Lenny Waronker\n\nLenny Waronker (born 3 October 1941) is an American producer and music industry executive. As the president of Warner Bros. Records, and later, as the co-Chair of DreamWorks Records, Waronker was noted for his commitment to artists and his belief that \"music, not money, was still number one.\"\n\nWaronker was born to a Jewish family in 1941 and grew up in Pacific Palisades, California. His father, Simon Waronker, a classical violinist, performed with the 20th Century Fox Orchestra from 1936 through 1939, and served as the orchestra's contractor at the studio from 1939 to 1955. When Waronker was 13, his father founded Liberty Records. With a roster that included Johnny Burnette, Eddie Cochran, Julie London, Bobby Vee, Jan and Dean, and the Ventures, Liberty became one of the most successful independent labels of the post-World War II period.\n\nLiberty's first release was an orchestral composition entitled \"The Girl Upstairs\" by Lionel Newman. Newman's nephew Randy Newman and Waronker – raised in the same neighborhood – were close friends. They frequently visited the Liberty Records office, where they would watch recording sessions and study studio personnel. Waronker had little interest in becoming a musician, and gravitated instead towards production. \"I remember going to Randy's house and saying 'why don't we figure out the arrangement for some standard?' And it was just amazing: He'd take any odd standard song and he'd sit down and mess with it and come up with a pop arrangement,\" he said in a 1994 interview with \"Billboard\".\n\nAt his father's urging, Waronker – by then educated in songwriting, the music industry, and publishing – attended USC, where he studied music and business. As he had in high school, Waronker worked in the A&R department at Liberty during summer breaks. Notably, in addition to serving as a gofer, Waronker worked with staff producer Snuff Garrett. Garrett, who was legendary for his \"shrewd ability to identify a good song and know what singer could do it justice\" heavily influenced Waronker as he learned about production.\n\nWaronker was additionally exposed to songwriters including Burt Bacharach, Mort Shuman, Carole King, Gerry Goffin, Barry Mann, Cynthia Weil, and Doc Pomus.\n\nAfter his college graduation in 1961, Waronker was employed by Liberty full-time, working in the label's promotion department. A year later, he transferred to Liberty's publishing arm, Metric Music, where he worked for Mike Gould and, briefly, as an assistant to Tommy LiPuma. At Metric, Waronker produced song demos; out of a fear that the producers would \"mess up the song or the arrangement\", Waronker learned how to make the demos sound like fully produced records with limited funds, and how to take advantage of \"moments within a song\".\n\nAt Metric, Waronker pitched songs to Dick Glasser at Warner Bros. and Jimmy Bowen at Reprise. Impressed by his song demos, Bowen and Glasser recommended Waronker to Reprise label president Mo Ostin. Ostin subsequently hired him as a junior A&R representative for Reprise and for Warner Bros., which was then run by Joe Smith. Charged with developing artists who were originally on the roster of Autumn Records, a defunct label Reprise had acquired, Waronker produced the Mojo Men's \"Sit Down, I Think I Love You,\" hiring Newman on piano and Van Dyke Parks as an arranger. He also produced Harpers Bizarre's \"The 59th Street Bridge Song (Feelin' Groovy),\" which he hired Leon Russell to arrange. Both songs were hits.\n\nAt the time, Warner/Reprise was characterized by a roster which included Dean Martin, Frank Sinatra, Petula Clark, Peter, Paul & Mary, and Sonny and Cher. The perception of the label shifted as Ostin and Smith signed artists including Jimi Hendrix, The Kinks, the Grateful Dead, and Van Morrison, among many others, and Waronker signed and/or produced artists including Newman, the Beau Brummels, James Taylor, Arlo Guthrie, Van Dyke Parks, Ry Cooder, Gordon Lightfoot, and Maria Muldaur.\n\nIn 1970 Ostin promoted Waronker to head of A&R. Waronker assembled an A&R staff composed of acclaimed producers and artists including Tommy LiPuma, Ted Templeman, Russ Titelman, Steve Barri, Gary Katz, Michael Omartian and John Cale, and by the early 1980s, Ostin, Smith and Waronker had transformed Warner/Reprise into a label known as a haven for artists. Rickie Lee Jones, who Waronker signed on the strength of a four-song demo, was an example of the success of the Warner Bros. artist-centric philosophy; her debut album, which Waronker co-produced with Titelman, went multi-platinum, and was considered by many to be one of the best debut albums of all time. Although the singles charts at the time was dominated by disco and arena rock anthems, \"Chuck E.'s In Love\" was a Top 10 hit. Jones won the Grammy for Best New Artist in 1979 and Waronker was nominated for a Grammy in the Record of the Year category for his work as the record's producer. (He was nominated in the same category in 1975 for Maria Muldaur's \"Midnight at the Oasis.\")\n\nIn 1982, Waronker determined that his A&R-focused role was limiting and \"becoming tiresome.\" He went to Ostin, seeking to become more active as an executive at the label. Waronker was subsequently installed as president. Although he remained significantly involved in signing artists, and produced tracks including Rod Stewart's \"Broken Arrow\" and Eric Clapton's \"Forever Man,\" he reduced the amount of time he spent in the studio, and instead worked closely with Ostin to run Warner/Reprise.\n\nWith an emphasis on the quality of the records they released, under the joint leadership of Ostin and Waronker, Warner/Reprise entered a period of substantial commercial success. Although many of the label's artists failed to deliver records in 1983, in 1984, with multi-platinum records from Madonna, John Fogerty, and Prince, among others, the label posted a 51% increase in revenue. Warner/Reprise continued to thrive throughout the 1980s, with releases from R.E.M. and Prince, both of whom Waronker signed, Eric Clapton, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Paul Simon, Madonna, Talking Heads, Van Halen, Neil Young, and Dire Straits, among others. Through meticulous A&R, Warner/Reprise continued to be recognized for the quality of their roster, and with aggressive marketing, the company remained a dominant force in the market during Waronker's tenure.\n\nIn 1992, following the death of Time Warner Chairman Steve Ross, the Chairman of Warner Music Group, Robert J. Morgado, reorganized the corporate management structure. Under Ross, the Warner Music Groups were autonomous; Morgado, described as \"a bean counter with little knowledge of music,\" required that the label heads report to him. Ostin declined to renew his contract as Chairman of Warner/Reprise, and resigned his position in August 1994. Waronker rejected Morgado's offer to succeed Ostin as the chairman of Warner Bros./Reprise. \"The way things are right now, it just doesn't feel right,\" he said.\n\nIn the months following their departure, Ostin and Waronker were pursued by more than a dozen entertainment companies, including Disney, Viacom, Fox, PolyGram and Time Warner. In October it was announced that they would co-chair DreamWorks Records, the newly created music arm of Steven Spielberg, David Geffen, and Jeffrey Katzenberg's DreamWorks. Michael Ostin was appointed president of the label.\n\nAlthough he served in a leadership role at DreamWorks, Waronker continued to work closely with artists including Rufus Wainwright, the first artist he signed to DreamWorks, the Eels, Elliott Smith, and Newman, who he brought to the label in 1998. With artists such as Nelly Furtado, Morphine, and Propellerheads, DreamWorks embraced the same artistry-first principles that Warner Bros. had become known for, and by 2003, despite the vast changes in the landscape of the music industry, DreamWorks had flourished, with 59 gold, platinum and multiplatinum sales certifications and 26 Grammy award-winning releases. The label was purchased by Universal Music Group for $100 million, and was subsequently folded into Geffen Records. Waronker left DreamWorks several years later.\n\nIn 2010, at the invitation of then-Chairman Tom Whalley, Waronker returned to Warner Bros. as a consultant, and works in partnership with the company's A&R staff on selected projects which have included records by Gary Clark Jr., Kimbra, and Jenny Lewis.\n\nWaronker lives in Los Angeles. He was married to \"Shindig!\" star Donna Loren, with whom he had three children, including songwriter and That Dog founder, Anna Waronker, and drummer, Joey, as well as a second daughter, Katie. His second marriage to jewelry designer, Cathleen Waronker, with whom he had two children, Lily and Grace, ended in divorce. He has three grandchildren.\n\nWaronker serves on the board of directors of the USC Thornton School of Music.\n"}
{"id": "1893922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893922", "title": "Anatoly Tarasov", "text": "Anatoly Tarasov\n\nAnatoly Vladimirovich Tarasov (; 10 December 1918 – 23 June 1995) was a Russian ice hockey player and coach. Tarasov is considered \"the father of Russian ice hockey\" and established the Soviet Union national team as \"the dominant force in international competition\". He was one of the first Russians to be inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame, having been inducted in 1974 in the builders category. Tarasov also played and managed in the sport of football, but is best known for his work in developing the USSR's ice hockey program.\n\nAfter World War II, Tarasov was by the Ministry of Sports of the USSR asked to put together a hockey program from scratch. He helped found a hockey department at the Red Army's sports club, CSKA Moscow with little more than several old hockey rulebooks. Before then, the most popular ice sport in Russia and the Soviet Union was bandy, a sport similar to field hockey, but played on ice. The Russian style of hockey, with its emphasis on skating skill, offense and passing, is still heavily influenced by bandy.\n\nTarasov served either as coach or co-coach of CSKA Moscow from 1946 to 1975, except for three short breaks in 1960, 1964 and 1972. He was named coach of the Soviet national team in 1958, a post he held until 1960. He was then an assistant coach of Soviet national team to Arkady Chernyshev from 1963 until 1972.\n\nWhen hockey was introduced in the USSR, Tarasov, like the rest of the nation, fell in love with the game. It was his ideals and philosophies that shaped the Russian game into what it is today- fast, graceful, non-individualistic, and patriotic. To him, real teamwork was based on a common aim- comradeship and caring for each team member. This is why he introduced a rule that in order to make the line-up the team had to approve of each player.\n\nAnatoli devised many new training techniques. Most of them centered on passing, for he felt passing was the key to their success, \"after all, the ultimate aim of a pass was to get a free player. So if our opponents make 150 passes in a game against our 270, this means we had 120 more playing opportunities.\"\n\nTarasov's practices included the use of pylons and simple drills that would have looked silly to Canadians, but to the Russians they had great meaning as they looked to perfect each skill. While performing these he had his players in constant motion. He called this the assembly method.\n\nTarasov was a player-coach for HC CSKA Moscow in the late 1940s and early 1950s, and coached notable players which included, Boris Afanasiev, Aleksandr Komarov, Grigory Mkrtychan, Nikolai Sologubov, Andrey Starovoytov, and Dmitry Ukolov. Many great players developed under his system in the 1960s. Among these were heroes like: Vitaly Davydov, Anatoli Firsov, Vyacheslav Starshinov, Veniamin Alexandrov, Alexander Ragulin, Alexander Yakushev, Konstantin Loktev, and goalie, Viktor Konovalenko. Then these were followed by other greats who would represent the Soviet Union in the 1972 Summit Series against Canada. These included: Boris Mikhailov, Vladimir Petrov, Valeri Vasiliev, Alexander Maltsev, Valeri Kharlamov, Viacheslav Fetisov, and a brilliant young goaltender named Vladislav Tretiak.\n\nTarasov was a big factor in the development of Tretiak, who was destined to become one of the most skillful and cherished goalies in international history. In the earliest days of his career, Tarasov had him doing three practices a day as hard as possible while using the maximum consumption of oxygen (MCO). In one instance a Swedish player came to practice in the USSR with Tarasov, but he couldn't last. He reportedly said, \"We Swedes don't' grow up to practice like this. I don't want to die.\"\n\nAccording to Tretiak, \"If I let in just one puck, Tarasov would ask me the next day \"What's the matter?\" If it was my fault (and it usually appears to be the goalkeeper's fault), my punishment would follow immediately. After everybody else had gone home I had to do hundreds of lunges and somersaults. I could have cheated and not done them at all, since nobody was watching me—the coaches had gone home too! But I wouldn't even have considered doing one less lunge or somersault. I trusted Tarasov, trusted his every word, even when he criticized me for letting the pucks in my net during practice.\"\n\nAt CSKA Moscow, he won 19 Soviet titles, including all but five from 1955 to 1975 and three instances of winning four titles in a row. He helped lead the Soviet national team to 9 straight world championships, including 3 Olympic gold medals (for most of his tenure, the Olympic championship was considered the world championship). After the 1972 Winter Olympics, Tarasov was fired. Tarasov was known for his ruthless training methods, tough discipline among his players and innovative, instinctive decisions. Many of his methods are continued by his daughter Tatiana Tarasova.\n\nHe died in 1995 after a long illness.\n\nHaving helped to build the Soviet hockey program from scratch, Tarasov became the first Soviet to be enshrined in the Hockey Hall of Fame in Toronto, being enshrined as a builder. He posthumously received the Wayne Gretzky International Award in 2008.\n\nAmerican coach Lou Vairo attended a clinic by Tarasov in 1972 and stated, \"He told me you don't coach with your feet, you coach with your heart and your brain, and you have to have leadership qualities, drive the boys, work them hard, but do everything you can to support them\".\n\nToday, the Kontinental Hockey League has a division bearing his name, recognizing his role in the development of ice hockey in the USSR and eventually Russia.\n\nTarasov when referencing Canada, the Soviet Union's long time rival famously made the quote \"The Canadians battled with the ferocity and intensity of a cornered animal,\" said Russian coach Anatoli Tarasov. \"Our players were better conditioned physically and stronger in skills than the Canadian professionals. But we could not match them in heart and desire, always the strongest part of the Canadian game\".\n\nOn December 10, 2019, Google celebrated his 101st birthday with a Google Doodle.\n"}
{"id": "1893924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893924", "title": "List of Fitzroy Football Club players", "text": "List of Fitzroy Football Club players\n\nThis is a complete list of players to have represented the Fitzroy Football Club in the Victorian/Australian Football League.\n\nPlayers are listed by the date of their VFL/AFL debut with the club. In cases of players debuting in the same game, they are listed alphabetically.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893928", "title": "Kōenji Station", "text": "Kōenji Station\n\nKōenji Station (高円寺駅, \"Kōenji-eki\") is a railway station on the Chūō Main Line in the Kōenji neighborhood in Suginami, Tokyo. The station, on a four-track section, is served by local and rapid services (not including special rapid services and other fast trains) of the Chūō Main Line on weekdays. On weekends, only local trains make stops at this station.\n\nThe station uses a special train departure melody during the Koenji Awa Odori festival held in late August.\n\nIt is within walking distance of Shin-Kōenji Station on the Tokyo Metro Marunouchi Line.\n\nThe station began operation on July 15, 1922. The original station building was destroyed in the bombing of Tokyo in 1945 and a permanent replacement was completed in 1952. The Chuo Line tracks originally ran at ground level but were fully elevated in April 1966, when through service to the Sobu Line and the Tozai Line commenced.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893930", "title": "Shingei", "text": "Shingei\n"}
{"id": "1893937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893937", "title": "Owensdale, Pennsylvania", "text": "Owensdale, Pennsylvania\n\nOwensdale is a small town in southwestern Pennsylvania. It is located in the northern part of Fayette County, just north of Connellsville. Owensdale sits in the middle of rich coal fields, which played a huge part in the town's past. It is now home to the interchange between the Wheeling and Lake Erie Railway and the Southwest Pennsylvania Railroad.\n"}
{"id": "1893939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893939", "title": "Brearley School", "text": "Brearley School\n\nThe Brearley School is an all-girls private school in New York City, located on the Upper East Side neighborhood in the borough of Manhattan. The school is divided into lower (kindergarten – grade 4), middle (grades 5–8) and upper (grades 9–12) schools, with approximately 50 to 60 students per grade.\n\nIn addition to being a member of the New York Interschool Association, Brearley is considered a sister school of the all-boys Collegiate School, the all-girls Spence School and the nearby all-girls Chapin School, with which it shares an after-school program and some classes.\n\nSamuel A. Brearley founded The Brearley School in 1884, and remained the head of school until 1886, when he died of typhoid fever. James G. Croswell was the next head until his death in 1915. Since 1926, Brearley has been headed by women, first by Millicent Carey McIntosh. In June 2011, headmistress Stephanie J. Hull resigned for undisclosed reasons. \n\nIn the early 1900s, Brearley moved from East 45th Street to West 44th Street and then in 1912 to Park Avenue and East 61st Street, where the primary program was added. The school then moved to a new building in 1929 on East 83rd Street. Brearley opened a new building at 590 East 83rd Street in Fall 2019r, one block away from its existing building at 610 East 83rd street. Brearley plans to renovate 610 during the summers. For the most part, the lower school will reside in 590 and the middle and upper schools will be in 610, although older students may go from building to building for different classes.\n\nThe school's curriculum is based on the liberal arts. The student-to-faculty ratio is 6:1.\n\nLanguage instruction is offered in Ancient Greek, Latin, French, Spanish, and Mandarin Chinese.\n\nStudents have access to two computer laboratories — one serving the Lower School, the other the Middle and Upper Schools. In addition, there are three smaller computer workrooms, one for middle schoolers and two for upper schoolers, as well as the science-projects room and laptops for use in the library and classrooms. Students in grades 7 and 8 are given iPads for the school year to aid with work in classes and assignments at home. In high school, students are expected to bring their own device, such as a laptop or iPad.\n\nIn 2008, Brearley was ranked number two in the country by \"The Wall Street Journal\" based on its ranking of students matriculating to eight selected colleges and universities. It was ranked second-best prep school in the United States and best all-girls school by Forbes in 2013. A 2019-20 survey concluded that Brearley was the second-best girls school in the country and the fifth-best private K-12 school in the country. \n\nAs of 2019, Brearley enrolled 724 students in K-12. Students of color represented approximately half of the student body. The 2018-19 tuition was $49,680. Approximately 20% of the students received the $6.1 million that was available for financial assistance. \n\nA separate building, the \"Field House\" on East 87th Street, has facilities for physical education and athletics including track, soccer, basketball, tennis, badminton, volleyball, lacrosse and field hockey. \n\nBrearley fields varsity teams in 13 sports. \n\nThe school's team colors are maroon and white, and its mascot is a beaver.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893968", "title": "Shake (singer)", "text": "Shake (singer)\n\nDato' Sheikh Abdullah bin Ahmad, also known as SHAKE and Dato Shake, was a very popular Malaysian singer in the 1980s Malay music scene. He was born in Johor Bahru, Malaysia, but is now based in Beverly Hills, California, and Paris, France, with his wife. He is an ex-collegian of English College Johore Bahru.\n\nShake came from a big family of four brothers and five sisters, in which he was the third youngest. As a small boy Shake dreamed of making music and distant shores. He spent his teenage years singing at his hometown's nightclub where he performed cover versions of songs by Rolling Stone, Tom Jones, Stevie Wonder, Elvis Presley and The Beatles. European artists in Malaysia encouraged him to try his luck in Europe, so he went there in the mid-1970s and Paris, France and then London, England was his first stop, where he studied for a year with classical vocal coach John Dolby.\n\nHe went to Paris, France in 1973. In 1976 he had secured a label and his first single was released, titled, \"Tu sais je t'aime\" (You know I love you). Shake's new single climbed the charts, followed by half a dozen other gold and platinum singles and albums in France. This made him the first notable Asian singer to sing in French, concert appearances and television specials followed and Shake became known in many French speaking countries.\n\nHe wanted to bring others to his homeland and the forefront of the music business, and started campaigns to fight against uncontrolled music piracy in South East Asia which he found disappointing.\n\nFor five consecutive years, Shake toured France and Belgium for 70 days each summer. He also performed concerts in Switzerland, Greece, Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia and Brunei. Shake was invited to do Royal Performances for the King of Malaysia and The Sultan of Brunei, and performed at the Shrine Auditorium Los Angeles USA for Valentine's Day for an audience of 6,000.\n\nRecorded music sales have surpassed 60 million worldwide in all French speaking countries, including Canada, Pacific Islands, North Africa and Asia. Albums have been recorded in Malay, French, Italian and English. Performing at many prestigious festivals, including the Paris World Music Festival; Tokyo songs festival; Festival de Venice, Festival de Cortina and Verona in Italy;Festival of Artist in Belgrade, Yugoslavia, Indonesia and Malaysia Songs Festival.\n\nIn Hollywood, Shake worked on his album with producer/artist Michael Sembello, the guitarist / producer from the group Cars Elliot Easton and Dayrell Ross producer / songwriter. He is working on his own unique sound and style, which comes from his music experienced in Europe and Asia mixed with American pop rock. Shake has recorded his album with sound engineers and studios in Los Angeles and Paris for his recent English album.\n\nShake was conferred the title of Dato DPMJ in 1979 by the late Sultan Ismail ibni Sultan Ibrahim of Johore on the latter's request, in grateful appreciation for \"bringing Malaysia to the attention of the world\". \n\nHe was also given the medal of Ordre des Arts et des Lettres type Chevalier from the government of France for his contributions promoting the French language and culture in Asia, where English is the more predominant European language used. Shake has performed on more than 30 television shows, variety appearances in Europe, Canada and Asia. \n\nIn 1976, he was deemed as the first Asian singer to make an international career in Europe singing in French, Italian and English.\n\nShake currently lives in Beverly Hills and Paris, France. He is the father of 4 children, namely Nic Shake, Amaro Shake, Mina and Natacha Shake. \nNic works as an actor while Amaro is a film director. \n"}
{"id": "1893972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893972", "title": "Czechoslovakia men's national ice hockey team", "text": "Czechoslovakia men's national ice hockey team\n\nThe Czechoslovakia men's national ice hockey team was the national ice hockey team of Czechoslovakia, and competed from 1920 until 1992. The successor to the Bohemia national ice hockey team, which was a European power prior to World War I, the Czechoslovak national team first appeared at the 1920 Summer Olympics, two years after the creation of the state. In the 1940s, they established themselves as the best team in Europe, becoming the first team from the continent to win two World Championships (1947 and 1949). After the arrival of the Soviet Union on the international hockey scene in the 1950s, the Czechoslovaks regularly fought Sweden and Canada for silver and bronze medals, and sometimes beat the Soviets. In total, they won the gold medal six times.\n\nDue to the split of the country Czechoslovakia into the Czech Republic and Slovakia, the team was replaced in 1993 with the Czech and the Slovak national teams. The International Ice Hockey Federation (IIHF) recognized the Czech national team as a successor of Czechoslovakia national team and kept it in the top group, while the Slovak national team was entered into the lowest level, Pool C, winning promotion in successive years to join the elite division in 1996.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893978", "title": "KLH (company)", "text": "KLH (company)\n\nKLH is an audio company founded in 1957 as KLH Research and Development Corporation in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States, by Henry Kloss, Malcolm S. Low, and Josef Anton Hofmann originally to produce loudspeakers. KLH had sales of $17 million, employed over 500 people and sold over 30,000 speakers a year before it was sold to Singer Corp. in 1964. Later it was bought by Electro Audio Dynamics Inc. and moved to California in 1980.\n\nKLH was then acquired by Kyocera Ltd, a Japanese conglomerate, and production was shifted overseas. Kyocera decided to stop manufacturing audio products in 1989, and sought a buyer for the KLH brand.\n\nThe company was formally known as KLH Audio Systems and for a while located in Santa Ynez, California. It was also known as Wald Sound and Verit Industries.\n\nLater down the line, David P. Kelley (Long time Klipsch and VOXX Executive) bought KLH Audio Systems and renamed the company to KLH Audio. The headquarters is now located in Noblesville, Indiana. Today the company makes premium high-end speakers.\n\n"}
{"id": "1893981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893981", "title": "Diamond cubic", "text": "Diamond cubic\n\nThe diamond cubic crystal structure is a repeating pattern of 8 atoms that certain materials may adopt as they solidify. While the first known example was diamond, other elements in group 14 also adopt this structure, including α-tin, the semiconductors silicon and germanium, and silicon/germanium alloys in any proportion.\n\nAlthough often called the diamond lattice, this structure is not a lattice in the technical sense of this word used in mathematics.\n\nDiamond's cubic structure is in the Fdm space group, which follows the face-centered cubic Bravais lattice. The lattice describes the repeat pattern; for diamond cubic crystals this lattice is \"decorated\" with a \"motif\" of two tetrahedrally bonded atoms in each primitive cell, separated by of the width of the unit cell in each dimension. The diamond lattice can be viewed as a pair of intersecting face-centered cubic lattices, with each separated by of the width of the unit cell in each dimension. Many compound semiconductors such as gallium arsenide, β-silicon carbide, and indium antimonide adopt the analogous zincblende structure, where each atom has nearest neighbors of an unlike element. Zincblende's space group is F3m, but many of its structural properties are quite similar to the diamond structure.\n\nThe atomic packing factor of the diamond cubic structure (the proportion of space that would be filled by spheres that are centered on the vertices of the structure and are as large as possible without overlapping) is ≈ 0.34, significantly smaller (indicating a less dense structure) than the packing factors for the face-centered and body-centered cubic lattices. Zincblende structures have higher packing factors than 0.34 depending on the relative sizes of their two component atoms.\n\nThe first-, second-, third-, fourth- and fifth-nearest-neighbor distances in units of the cubic lattice constant are , , , 1 and , respectively.\n\nMathematically, the points of the diamond cubic structure can be given coordinates as a subset of a three-dimensional integer lattice by using a cubic unit cell four units across. With these coordinates, the points of the structure have coordinates (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") satisfying the equations\nThere are eight points (modulo 4) that satisfy these conditions:\nAll of the other points in the structure may be obtained by adding multiples of four to the \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" coordinates of these eight points. Adjacent points in this structure are at distance apart in the integer lattice; the edges of the diamond structure lie along the body diagonals of the integer grid cubes. This structure may be scaled to a cubical unit cell that is some number \"a\" of units across by multiplying all coordinates by .\n\nAlternatively, each point of the diamond cubic structure may be given by four-dimensional integer coordinates whose sum is either zero or one. Two points are adjacent in the diamond structure if and only if their four-dimensional coordinates differ by one in a single coordinate. The total difference in coordinate values between any two points (their four-dimensional Manhattan distance) gives the number of edges in the shortest path between them in the diamond structure. The four nearest neighbors of each point may be obtained, in this coordinate system, by adding one to each of the four coordinates, or by subtracting one from each of the four coordinates, accordingly as the coordinate sum is zero or one. These four-dimensional coordinates may be transformed into three-dimensional coordinates by the formula\nBecause the diamond structure forms a distance-preserving subset of the four-dimensional integer lattice, it is a partial cube.\n\nYet another coordinatization of the diamond cubic involves the removal of some of the edges from a three-dimensional grid graph. In this coordinatization, which has a distorted geometry from the standard diamond cubic structure but has the same topological structure, the vertices of the diamond cubic are represented by all possible 3d grid points and the edges of the diamond cubic are represented by a subset of the 3d grid edges.\n\nThe diamond cubic is sometimes called the \"diamond lattice\" but it is not, mathematically, a lattice: there is no translational symmetry that takes the point (0,0,0) into the point (3,3,3), for instance. However, it is still a highly symmetric structure: any incident pair of a vertex and edge can be transformed into any other incident pair by a congruence of Euclidean space. Moreover, the diamond crystal as a network in space has a strong isotropic property. Namely, for any two vertices \"x\" and \"y\" of the crystal net, and for any ordering of the edges adjacent to \"x\" and any ordering of the edges adjacent to \"y\", there is a net-preserving congruence taking \"x\" to \"y\" and each \"x\"-edge to the similarly ordered \"y\"-edge. Another (hypothetical) crystal with this property is the Laves graph (also called the K crystal, (10,3)-a, or the diamond twin).\n\nThe compressive strength and hardness of diamond and various other materials, such as boron nitride, is attributed to the diamond cubic structure.\nSimilarly truss systems that follow the diamond cubic geometry have a high capacity to withstand compression, by minimizing the unbraced length of individual struts. The diamond cubic geometry has also been considered for the purpose of providing structural rigidity though structures composed of skeletal triangles, such as the octet truss, have been found to be more effective for this purpose.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893990", "title": "Flexible response", "text": "Flexible response\n\nFlexible response was a defense strategy implemented by John F. Kennedy in 1961 to address the Kennedy administration's skepticism of Dwight Eisenhower's New Look and its policy of massive retaliation. Flexible response calls for mutual deterrence at strategic, tactical, and conventional levels, giving the United States the capability to respond to aggression across the spectrum of war, not limited only to nuclear arms.\n\nThe New Look policy, though initially useful, quickly became obsolete with the introduction of inter-continental delivery systems that undermined the credibility of a deterrence threat. The cornerstone of U.S. and European defense strategy was then threatened as the U.S. could no longer rely on nuclear threats to provide security for it and its allies.\n\nJohn F. Kennedy won the presidency by claiming that the Republican Party had allowed the U.S. to fall behind the Soviets into a missile gap. Upon entering office Kennedy cited General Maxwell Taylor's book \"The Uncertain Trumpet\" to Congress for its conclusion that massive retaliation left the U.S. with only two choices: defeat on the ground or the resort to the use of nuclear weapons. Technology had improved since massive retaliation was adopted. Improvements in communication and transportation meant U.S. forces could be deployed more effectively, quickly, and flexibly than before. Advisers persuaded Kennedy that having multiple options would allow the president to apply the appropriate amount of force at the right place without risking escalation or losing alternatives. This would improve credibility for deterrence as the U.S. would now have low-intensity options and therefore would be more likely to use them, rather than massive retaliation's all-or-nothing options.\n\nFlexible Response was implemented to develop several options across the spectrum of warfare, other than the nuclear option, for quickly dealing with enemy aggression. In addition, the survivability of the retaliatory capability was stressed, leading to the diversification of the strategic force, development of the strategic triad, and half the Strategic Air Command force being put on permanent alert status.\n\nThe Kennedy doctrine did not include the ability to fight nuclear wars because of the idea that it would undermine deterrence, was technologically unworkable, would fuel the arms race, and was not politically feasible.\n\nImportance was also placed on counterinsurgency and the development of unconventional military forces, unconventional tactics, and \"civic action\" programs.\n\nA staged plan was devised to counter any Soviet military action other than a first strike. It consisted of three stages:\n\nDirect defense: In case of a conventional Soviet attack (meaning non-nuclear therefore not considered a first strike) initial efforts would be to try and stop the Soviet advance with conventional weapons. This meant that the foreseen Soviet attack on West-Germany would be tried to be forced to a halt by NATO's European forces, Allied Command Europe.\n\nDeliberate Escalation: This phase would be entered when conventional NATO forces were succumbing under the Soviet attack. This was actually expected as intelligence indicated Soviet divisions outnumbered NATO divisions by far. In this phase NATO forces would switch to a limited use of nuclear weapons, such as recently developed tactical nuclear weapons (like nuclear artillery).\n\nGeneral Nuclear Response: This was the last phase or stage which more or less corresponded to the mutual assured destruction scenario, meaning the total nuclear attack on the Communist world likely resulting in a Soviet response in kind, if they had not already done so.\n\nBy 1960, the United States had three means of strategic forces: ICBMs, SLBMs, and strategic bombers. This triad made it possible for the United States to impose unacceptable damage to the Soviet Union with one strategic force independent of the other two forces. These different forces had their advantages and disadvantages. Bombers could deliver large payloads and strike with great accuracy, but were slow, vulnerable while on the ground, and could be shot down. ICBMs are safe in their underground silos while on the ground, but were less accurate than bombers and could not be called back when launched. Submarines were least vulnerable but were also least accurate and communication could be poor at times. Each of these forces provided the United States with different options to tailor their response to the situation.\n\nPart of Flexible response was the strategy of being able to fight over the entire spectrum of violence by developing diverse forces for different types of warfare. This meant being able to fight multiple wars simultaneously; specifically, the US should have the peacetime capability to fight two large regional wars and a small brushfire war at the same time. The consequence of this was to increase recruiting, investment, and research for the US force posture.\n\nThe strategic doctrine for Kennedy's Flexible response was Assured Destruction. Flexible response made second strike capability its guiding principle of deterrence. In the event of Soviet nuclear aggression, the Soviets would know that enough U.S. nuclear capability would survive their strike to destroy their cities and industry. Robert McNamara argued for the definition of what was \"unacceptable\" to the enemy as the destruction of 50% of industry and 25% of the population. Deterrence depended on influence to show that violence and aggression did not pay, and being explicit about the level of destruction the US was willing to inflict on the enemy was one way to illustrate this point. Assured Destruction relied on deterrence by punishment, precision, and credibility.\n\nDefense Secretary McNamara sought to limit damage to the U.S. by developing a separate strategy for offense and defense. The offensive strategy was one of Counterforce, seeking to destroy Soviet military installations and hardware and thus disable this hardware before it could be used. In a 1962 speech to the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, McNamara announced that the U.S. would refrain from striking countervalue targets (cities) early in nuclear war, reserving such force later in war should the Soviets not show similar restraint. This would not only induce the Soviets to spare American cities, but would secure the United States bargaining advantage by holding hostage something that the Soviets might want to keep.\n\nThe defensive strategy involved developing a system to intercept incoming Soviet missiles. Bombers could be easily shot down, but missiles still remained a credible threat. As a result, the United States began developing an anti-ballistic missile program, modifying its Nike missiles to intercept incoming missiles. Ultimately, however, this program was abandoned by the adoption of the anti-ballistic missile treaty.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1893998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1893998", "title": "Sony Corporation of America", "text": "Sony Corporation of America\n\nSony Corporation of America (SCA)（ソニー・コーポレーション・オブ・アメリカ）based in New York City, is a subsidiary of the Japanese conglomerate Sony Corporation. It serves as the company's US headquarters, and manages the company's US-based businesses.\n\nSony's principal U.S. businesses include Sony Electronics USA, Sony Pictures Entertainment, Sony Interactive Entertainment, Sony Music Entertainment, and Sony/ATV Music Publishing.\n\nIt was reported in December 2016 by multiple news outlets that Sony was considering restructuring its U.S. operations by merging its television and film business, Sony Pictures Entertainment, with its gaming business, Sony Interactive Entertainment. According to the reports, such a restructuring would have placed Sony Pictures under Sony Interactive's then CEO, Andrew House, though House would not have assumed day-to-day operations of the film studio. According to one report, Sony was set to make a final decision on the possibility of the merger of the television, film and gaming businesses by the end of its fiscal year in March of the following year (2017). As of January 2020, nothing has materialized.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894007", "title": "Turku International School", "text": "Turku International School\n\nTurku International School is an international school in Turku, Finland, located in the eastern district of Varissuo. It was established in August 2003, and is maintained by the City of Turku. Notably it doesn't have its own faculty, but teaching is undertaken by the University's teacher training school. The official language of the school is English (most people speak Finnish). Around half the 200 students are of foreign nationality.\n\nIt currently temporarily operates within the premises of Turun normaalikoulu, but will soon get its own building in Varissuo. The school offers three programmes: a primary (years 1-4) and secondary (years 5-9) years programme, and the International Baccalaureate Diploma Programme (in cooperation with Turun normaalikoulu). The first two are based on the Finnish national curriculum and the International Baccalaureate's Primary Years Programme (PYP) and Middle Years Programme (MYP) respectively.\n\nThe school is intended for foreign-born children living temporarily or permanently in Turku Region and for Finnish children returning to Finland after years abroad.\n\nBy an agreement signed between the city of Turku and the University of Turku, Turun Normaalikoulu (the Teacher training school of Turku) takes care of the teaching in the international school.\n\n"}
{"id": "1894010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894010", "title": "List of places in Jerusalem", "text": "List of places in Jerusalem\n\nThis article lists significant public places in the city of Jerusalem.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894012", "title": "Kokanee beer", "text": "Kokanee beer\n\nKokanee is a beer brewed at the Columbia Brewery in Creston, British Columbia. Columbia Brewery began brewing Kokanee lager in 1959 and was purchased by the Labatt Brewing Company in 1974.\n\nLabatt Brewing is now part of the new company, Anheuser-Busch InBev SA/NV, which is trading as BUD on the New York Stock Exchange; (ABI:BB in Brussels.)\n\nKokanee is a Pilsner Style Lager with 5.0% alcohol v/v and is British Columbia's best selling lager. Kokanee beer is aged naturally and has a relatively mild taste. A light beer, it is most-commonly found in the Western provinces of Canada and the Pacific Northwest states of the USA, with sparse distribution in Eastern provinces and states. The Columbia Brewery also brews Kokanee Gold, with a fuller body and 5.3% alcohol content, Kokanee Light, and Kootenay True Ale.\n\nThe company's \"Glacier Fresh\" marketing slogan for the beer originates from the usage of mountain stream water in its brewing. It uses three varieties of malt and a blend of western grown North American hops.\n\nKokanee started life as a niche brand by attempting to appeal with only radio ads to the residents of the interior of British Columbia with the slogan, \"Brewed right in the Kootenays\". After Labatt bought the Columbia Brewery in 1974, they hired the advertising agency WestCan later to be known as Scali McCabe Sloves whose Vancouver office produced a number of humorous radio and then international award-winning TV campaigns introducing \"The Sasquatch\", including, for instance,(and still under the name WestCan at the time) 2 IBA's for TV. Two International Broadcast Awards and both introducing the legendary Sasquatch trademark and this success in TV to then take the brand to market domination and peak with a 30% plus brand share in 1986. These Sasquatch ads also were featured on the NBC \"Tonight Show\" as samples of the \"World's Best\". Other later efforts included a mock documentary showing Kokanee bottles migrating up a stream like salmon. These helped the brand become the market leader with a share of 17% in 1992. The Sasquatch 25 years later still a critical trademark for this effective branding.\n\nIn 1992, Labatt hired Beakbane Marketing, Toronto, to revitalize the packaging. Unusual for the time, they changed the icon of the Kokanee Glacier to a photo montage that was shot from a helicopter by nature photographer Alec Pytlowany. The image of the glacier was used on all packaging materials including bottle labels, cans and cartons. At that time a small sasquatch icon was developed and hidden in each design.\n\nThe brand was introduced to Ontario in 1996, but to save on shipping the beer was brewed at Labatt's facility in London, Ontario. Molson Breweries launched a preemptive advertising campaign questioning the beers legitimacy, with the slogan \"B.C. or B.S.?\". In 2001, Labatt re-launched Kokanee, trucking it in from the brewery in Creston.\n\nKokanee's current marketing slogans are \"It's The Beer Out Here\" and \"Glacier Fresh\". Kokanee advertisements are frequently shown on Canadian television stations and center around the beer's official mascot the Sasquatch. Later the ad campaign follows the storyline of the \"Kokanee Ranger\", played by John Novak; and his unsuccessful attempts to hunt and catch the Sasquatch who is stealing Kokanee beer. These commercials parody the real life Sasquatch hunter René Dahinden, who appeared in the first Kokanee commercial of its kind. According to the ad campaign, the Ranger eventually recruited three Glacier Girls to join the search to catch the elusive Sasquatch. These girls were originally introduced first in 1985 as \"The Kokettes\".\n\nIn 2008, a new campaign encouraged customers to visit a website (RangerLiveOrDie.ca) and vote on whether the Kokanee Ranger should live or die. The campaign concluded on August 17, with the Kokanee Ranger ultimately being killed off in a commercial that spoofed the last few minutes of the final episode of \"The Sopranos\". It is still unknown who, or what, will replace the Ranger as Kokanee's new spokesperson.\n\nKokanee also sponsored the annual Crankworx mountain biking festival in Whistler, British Columbia.\n\nIn 2011, Kokanee launched a Facebook campaign that encouraged Kokanee drinkers to vote for a new Ranger as Sasq's raids on Kokanee residents' beer in the absence of the Ranger grew bolder.\n\nA TV ad showed the late Ranger as a ghost resuming his post and duties, discovering he's dead as his hand passes through a bottle of Kokanee, remembering \"you killed me off!\" indignantly, and sourly wished the viewers \"good luck\" in finding his replacement. Voters chose from a varied choice of candidates: \"Ma Ranger\", the mother of the Kokanee Ranger; \"Micheal Baystreet\" a Gordon Gekko-like TSX day trader; \"Cory\", a Ski instructor who has skied the Rockies since the '80s and needs some responsibility; \"Beer Fridge 2.0\", a beer cooler with a lock; \"Glacier and Fresh\", a Starsky and Hutchesque buddy duo eager to make their mark by stopping Sasq's crime wave; and \"Glacier Goat\" a foul mouthed cantankerous goat.\n\nKokanee drinkers voted for \"Glacier and Fresh\" after a narrow election victory over runner up \"Goat\".\n\nIn May 2012, Kokanee and Alliance Films announced that it would be producing a feature-length film for release in 2013. Known as \"The Movie Out Here\", the film (which was also co-produced by Grip Limited, the agency behind some of Kokanee's recent campaigns) was promoted by Kokanee using a social media and crowdsourcing-oriented marketing campaign of its own, and serves as Labatt's first experiment with feature-length branded content.\n\nKokanee is also a name for landlocked Sockeye salmon. The beer is named after the Kokanee Glacier in the Kootenays region in which Creston is situated.\n\nThe picture on the label consists of a mountain known as Grays Peak in Kokanee Glacier Provincial Park, British Columbia, named after Lt. Robert Hampton Gray, VC, RCNVR, and his brother, Flt Sgt John Balfour Gray, RCAF, both of whom were killed in World War II.\nIt shows a man or Sasquatch standing on top of one of the peaks. The entity is not in the pictures on Kokanee's box packaging. He appears only on the cans or bottles themselves, and is located in one of five various spots on bottles, and in different positions on different cans.\n\n\n8. Brookswood man drinks 48 case of beer then gets behind wheel of subcompact car to pick up albino children from school. - CBC News Vancouver\n\n"}
{"id": "1894018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894018", "title": "MapInfo Corporation", "text": "MapInfo Corporation\n\nMapInfo Corporation, initially incorporated as Navigational Technologies Incorporated, was a company that developed location intelligence software. It was headquartered in North Greenbush, New York. Its products included a desktop mapping application, various map and demographic data products, and some web-based applications. It acquired several other companies in order to market their software, data, or services directly. It was acquired on April 19, 2007 by Pitney Bowes.\n\nMapInfo was founded in 1986 by Laszlo Bardos, Andrew Dressel, John Haller, and Sean O’Sullivan. The four were students at nearby Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute who wanted to develop an inexpensive mapping tool for the PC. They got a contract to develop bus routes for a local school district, and used the money to develop their first product. They contacted Michael Marvin early in the company's history for advice on how to form the company. Marvin helped to set up the business and used his community contacts to raise seed capital. The company originated as a Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute incubator project. The first intended product was for in-car navigation, but this was abandoned when inertial navigation proved impractical.\n\nEarly competition for MapInfo software came from Strategic Mapping, which had been founded by Steve Poizner around the same time. Later, Strategic Mapping was sold to Claritas Worldwide in May 1996. Its other competitor was ESRI, which primarily sold expensive GIS software for engineering workstations.\n\nMapInfo appeared at number 23 in Inc. Magazine's annual list of the 500 fastest-growing private companies in the U.S. in 1992.\nMapInfo held an initial public offering (IPO) on February 1, 1994. In the years prior to the IPO, Marvin served as Chairman of the Board, hiring the CEO and making sure he was comfortable with how the company was being managed. Marvin insisted that the company be run on a cash flow break-even basis, but did raise a rainy-day fund of $2 million from Greylock Partners in 1989.\n\nMapInfo hired Brian D. Owen to be the CEO in 1991, who brought in Matthew Szulik as VP of Sales and Doug Finlay as CFO. Robertson Stephens was the lead investment bank that managed the IPO.\n\nOn April 19, 2007 Pitney Bowes entered into a merger agreement to acquire MapInfo Corporation for approximately $408 million in cash. Following the acquisition, MapInfo changed its name to Pitney Bowes MapInfo Corporation.\n\nOn December 18, 2007 Pitney Bowes also acquired Encom Technology whose products include Encom Discover and Encom Engage which are the major plugins for MapInfo Professional.\n\nAs of January 28, 2009, MapInfo and Group 1 Software were operating as one division called Pitney Bowes Business Insight.\n\nOn August 26, 2019, Pitney Bowes sold its software division (which includes MapInfo Professional) to Syncsort for $700 million in cash \n\nMapInfo developed the first desktop GIS in 1986 . Originally, the intention was to create an easy-to-use software package that did not require exceedingly large amounts of computing power.\n\nMapInfo provided the first tools to Microsoft that allowed them to include mapping functionality in their products, specifically the mapping add-on branded as Microsoft Map for Microsoft Excel as part of MS Office 95. The add-on was subsequently included in Microsoft Office 97, and Microsoft Office 2000. This provided the inspiration for the Microsoft MapPoint program, which became a separate product from Microsoft, and since then Microsoft Map was dropped.\n\nMapInfo developed a spatial datablade for Informix and collaborated with Oracle Corporation to develop the original spatial cartridge for the Oracle 8i database.\n\nIn 2000, MapInfo partnered with Lucent to \"develop location-based services for mobile communications devices.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894019", "title": "Monowai", "text": "Monowai\n\nMonowai may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1894020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894020", "title": "Heritage interpretation", "text": "Heritage interpretation\n\nHeritage interpretation refers to all the ways in which information is communicated to visitors to an educational, natural or recreational site, such as a museum, park or science centre. More specifically it is the communication of information about, or the explanation of, the nature, origin, and purpose of historical, natural, or cultural resources, objects, sites and phenomena using personal or non-personal methods. Some international authorities in museology prefer the term mediation for the same concept, following usage in other European languages.\n\nHeritage interpretation may be performed at dedicated interpretation centres or at museums, historic sites, parks, art galleries, nature centres, zoos, aquaria, botanical gardens, nature reserves and a host of other heritage sites. Its modalities can be extremely varied and may include guided walks, talks, drama, staffed stations, displays, signs, labels, artwork, brochures, interactives, audio-guides and audio-visual media. The process of developing a structured approach to interpreting these stories, messages and information is called interpretive planning. The thematic approach to heritage interpretation advocated by University of Idaho professor Sam Ham, the National Association for Interpretation, the US National Park Service, and others, is considered best practice.\n\nThose who practice this form of interpretation may include rangers, guides, naturalists, actors (who may wear period dress and do reenactments), museum curators, natural and cultural interpretive specialists, interpretation officers, heritage communicators, docents, educators, visitor services staff, interpreters or a host of other titles. The interpretive process is often assisted by new technologies such as visualizing techniques.\n\nThe goal of interpretation is to improve and enrich the visitor experience by helping site visitors understand the significance of the place they are visiting, and connecting those meanings to visitors' own personal lives. By weaving compelling, thematic stories about environmental phenomena and historical events, interpreters aim to provoke visitors to learn and think about their experiences.\nEffective interpretation enables the visitors to make associations between the information given and their previous perceptions. According to Moscardo interpretation can produce 'Mindful Visitors' who are carefully processing information and negotiating the meanings of the observed object or intangible element.\n\nInterpretation is often used by landowning government agencies and NGOs to promote environmental stewardship of the lands they manage.\n\nIn his 1957 book, \"Interpreting Our Heritage\", Freeman Tilden defined six principles of interpretation:\nFor the past 50 years, Tilden's principles have remained highly relevant to interpreters across the world. In 2002 Larry Beck and Ted Cable published \"Interpretation for the 21st Century - Fifteen Guiding Principles for Interpreting Nature and Culture\", which elaborated upon Tilden's original principles. In 2011, Beck and Cable released a new version of their principles in \"The Gift of Interpretation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894027", "title": "The Battle of Mexico City", "text": "The Battle of Mexico City\n\nThe Battle of Mexico City is the second video release by American rock band Rage Against the Machine. The concert was recorded in Mexico City's MX Palacio de los Deportes in 1999 as part of their \"Battle of Los Angeles\" world tour. The city was chosen as the band had been longtime supporters of various political causes in Mexico (it was also the first time they had played there).\n\nThe VHS was released in 2001 and later released on DVD in 2002, including a one-on-one interview with Noam Chomsky and a message from Subcomandante Marcos.\n\n\n\nBonus\n\n"}
{"id": "1894030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894030", "title": "Fort Gillem", "text": "Fort Gillem\n\nFort Gillem was a United States Army Post located in Forest Park, Georgia, on the southeast edge of Atlanta in Clayton County. Founded in 1941, it was a satellite installation of nearby Fort McPherson. The base housed different supply and support units, including the U.S. Army Criminal Investigation Laboratory and the 3rd MP Group (CID), both units of the United States Army Criminal Investigation Command. It employed 456 active duty personnel, 1,663 Army reservist, and 1,667 civilians. In 1973, its were annexed by Forest Park. The fort was named in the memory of Lieutenant General Alvan Cullom Gillem, Jr..\n\nThe US Army established Fort Gillem in 1940 with the simultaneous construction of the Atlanta Quartermaster Depot and the\nAtlanta Ordnance Depot, which were mostly completed by December 1942. The two installations operated separately until April 1, 1948, when consolidated physically and operationally as the 'Atlanta Army Depot', a subcommand of the Army Materiel Command. The Atlanta Army Depot was deactivated on June 28, 1974.\n\nBuried landfills have contaminated ground water under neighborhoods north and south of Gillem, and inspectors sampled indoor air early summer 2014 for vapor intrusion. , 40 homes had been tested and 26 homes were found to have elevated levels of benzene and trichlorethylene. The chemicals, which entered the homes through groundwater, are those commonly used to strip metal\" per the Georgia Environmental Protection Division. The Army plans to install air ventilation systems in these homes to \"eliminate or greatly reduce any risk\". If higher levels are found in any other homes, larger mitigation efforts will be undertaken during which residents would relocate.\n\nOn May 13, 2005, the Base Realignment and Closure commission recommended that Fort Gillem, along with Fort McPherson and the Navy Supply Corps School be closed. An exit ceremony was held at Fort Gillem on June 3, 2011, and First Army troops stationed there were transferred to the Rock Island Arsenal in Rock Island, Illinois.\n\nIn 2012, after five years of negotiations with the Army, the City of Forest Park purchased 1,170 acres comprising most of the former Fort Gillem for $30 million, and ownership was transferred to the Forest Park/Fort Gillem Implementation Local Redevelopment Authority (ILRA). City officials wanted mixed-use development on the property, but following the housing crash turned their focus to industrial, manufacturing, warehouse and business park development. The only private residences are a 125-unit development owned by The Park, which has a lease with the Army until 2025. There are around 165 acres of contaminated groundwater on the site the cleanup of which the Army is responsible for. The clean up of the land was expected to take ten years.\n\nThe Criminal Investigations Division Crime Lab, a forensic crime laboratory, remains open on a 250-acre enclave retained by the Army.\n\nIt was decided to list Fort Gillem on the National Priorities List (NPL) of superfunds.\nOn June 3, the Director of Georgia Department of Natural Resources Environmental Protection Division, 2013, Judson Turner, requested from USEPA Region IV that the decision be postponed.\n\nOn May 2, 2014 officials from the city and the Department of Defense under exclusion of the public held a ceremony at Fort Gillem to commemorate the impending move. The city is partnering with developer Weeks Robinson Properties and hopes it will be booming again, when land re-enters the city and county’s tax digest and \"companies such as Porsche North America [are] moving their headquarters to the Forest Park and Hapeville area\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894034", "title": "Direct Internet Access System", "text": "Direct Internet Access System\n\nDirect Internet Access System is a technology used to access internet through DSL developed jointly by IIT Madras and Banyan Networks. It offers a wired solution for high-speed symmetrical Internet access through existing public switched telephone network lines and provides an \" Always On\" Internet Access that is permanently available at the customer's premises. It uses the existing cabling infrastructure by combining voice and data packets onto a single twisted-pair wire at the subscriber's premises.\n\nThe speed of this type of internet access depends upon the distance of the customer's residence from the nearest office of the broadband company.\n\nFor example:\n\n"}
{"id": "1894051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894051", "title": "Sakhalin-II", "text": "Sakhalin-II\n\nThe Sakhalin-2 () project is an oil and gas development in Sakhalin Island, Russia. It includes development of the Piltun-Astokhskoye oil field and the Lunskoye natural gas field offshore Sakhalin Island in the Okhotsk Sea, and associated infrastructure onshore. The project is managed and operated by Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. (Sakhalin Energy).\n\nSakhalin-2 includes the first liquefied natural gas plant in Russia. The development is situated in areas previously little touched by human activity, causing various groups to criticize the development activities and the impact they have on the local environment.\n\nThe original consortium, was a joint venture between Marathon Oil, Mc Dermott, and Mitsubishi. They won a tender from the Russian Government in 1992. Later that year Royal Dutch Shell and Mitsubishi joined the joint venture. In 1994 the JV incorporated in Bermuda to form Sakhalin Energy Investment Company Ltd. Sakhalin Energy, led by Marathon, negotiated the first PSA directly with representatives of the Russian government. The Russian Party maintained project planning and budget approval. The initial investment decision was to proceed with the oil field development led by Marathon. McDermott sold its share to the other partners in 1997 and Marathon traded its shares to Shell for an interest in other properties (the BP operated Foinaven field, near the Shetland Islands, and an eight block area in the Gulf of Mexico—including the Ursa field) in 2000. \n\nThe decision to proceed with the gas project investment was made in 2003. The expected budget increased dramatically by 2005–2006. The pipeline portion of the gas project was heavily criticized due to environmental issues. Legal proceeding on perceived violation of the Russian environmental regulations were initiated.\nIn the result, The Russian government ordered to terminate the project on September 2006. Under legal and political pressure, the consortium was forced to sell a majority stake to Gazprom. On 21 December, Gazprom took control over a 50%-plus-one-share stake in the project by signing an agreement with Royal Dutch Shell. Russian President Vladimir Putin attended the signing ceremony in Moscow and indicated that environmental issues had been resolved.\n\nThe LNG plant was inaugurated on 18 February 2009. The first cargo was loaded to the LNG carrier \"Grand Aniva\" at the end of March 2009.\n\nThe two fields contain an estimated of crude oil and 500 billion cubic meters (18 trillion cubic feet) of natural gas; 9.6 million tonnes of liquefied natural gas per year and about of oil will be produced. The total project cost until 2014 was originally estimated by Royal Dutch Shell to be between US$9 and $11 billion. However, the costs turned out to be substantially underestimated and in July 2005 Shell revised the estimate upwards to $20 billion.\n\nSakhalin-2 project includes:\n\n\nThe Molikpaq drilling and oil production platform (Piltun-Astokhskoye-A platform) is an ice-resistant structure, originally built to explore for oil in the Canadian Beaufort Sea. It had been mothballed in 1990, and was installed in the Astokh area of the Piltun-Astokhskoye field, offshore, on September 1998. The Molikpaq has production capacity of of oil and 1.7 million cubic meters of associated gas. \n\nThe Lunskoye field platform was installed in June 2006 at the Lunskoye gas field offshore. It has production capacity over 50 million cubic meters of natural gas, around of peak liquids (associated water and condensate), and of oil.\n\nThe PA-B platform was installed in July 2007 in the Piltun area of the Piltun-Astokhskoye oil field, offshore. The PA-B has production capacity of of oil and 2.8 million cubic meters of associated gas.\n\nThe onshore processing facility is located in the north-east of Sakhalin Island, inland in Nogliki district. It is designed to process natural gas, condensate, and oil from the Lunskoye and the Piltun-Astokhskoye fields prior to pipeline transportation to the oil export terminal and the liquefied natural gas plant in Aniva Bay in the south of Sakhalin Island.\n\nThe TransSakhalin pipeline system is designed for transportation of hydrocarbons from the Piltun-Astokhskoye and Lunskoye fields in the North of Sakhalin Island to the onshore processing facility in the Nogliki district and to the LNG plant and the oil export terminal in Aniva Bay.\n\nThe oil export terminal is located in Aniva Bay to the east of the LNG plant. It includes the export pipeline and the tanker loading unit, where oil-loading to tankers is performed.\n\nThe Sakhalin-2 LNG plant is the first of its kind in Russia. It is located in Prigorodnoye in Aniva Bay, east of Korsakov. Construction of the LNG plant was carried out by OAO Nipigaspererabothka (Nipigas) and the KhimEnergo consortium, together with two Japanese companies Chiyoda Corporation and Toyo Engineering Corporation. The plant has been designed to prevent major loss of containment in the event of an earthquake and to ensure the structural integrity of critical elements such as emergency shut down valves and the control room of the plant.\n\nThe LNG plant includes:\n\nThe LNG plant production capacity is 9.6 million tons of LNG per year. The consortium is examining the possibility of adding another train. A special gas liquefaction process was developed by Shell for use in cold climates such as Sakhalin, based on the use of a double mixed refrigerant.\n\nThe LNG plant has two LNG double-walled, storage tanks with a capacity of each. LNG is exported via an jetty in Aniva Bay. The jetty is fitted with four arms – two loading arms, one dual purpose arm and one vapour return arm. The upper deck is designed for a road bed and electric cables. The lower deck is used for the LNG pipeline, communication lines and a footpath. LNG is pumped from the storage tanks into the parallel loading lines which are brought to the LNG jetty. At the jetty head, the pipelines are connected with the jetty's four loading arms. The water depth at the tail of the jetty is . The jetty will serve LNG tankers which have capacities of between . Loading operations are estimated to take from six to 16 hours, depending on vessel capacity. The jetty will be able to handle loading of around 160 LNG carriers per year.\n\nAt the 9th meeting of the Western Gray Whale Advisory Panel (December 2010) Sakhalin Energy provided some preliminary information on its plans for a major new development project in the Piltun-Astokh field, called South Piltun. This is likely to include construction and installation of a new platform, called PA-C, approximately halfway between the existing PA-A (Molikpaq) and PA-B platforms.\n\nContracts for the supply of LNG have been signed with:\n\nThe projects is owned and operated by Sakhalin Energy. Shareholders of Sakhalin Energy are:\n\n\nSakhalin Energy looked for finances from the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development. However, on 11 January 2007 EBRD withdrew its consideration of financing for Sakhalin-2, claiming that Gazprom's acquisition of the controlling stake of Sakhalin-2 resulted in a to the project making it is unfeasible for the EBRD to pursue the current project. Meanwhile, environmental organizations contend that Sakhalin II had \"chronically and substantially violated EBRD's environmental policy\".\n\nThe consortium applied for nearly a billion dollars in financing from the public export credit agencies of the United States and the United Kingdom, but in early March 2008 these applications were withdrawn due to the drawn-out and uncertain decision making process] by these banks. However, environmental groups contend that the drawn-out process was due to the fact that the company failed to demonstrate compliance with these public banks' environmental policies.\n\nIn June 2008 Sakhalin Energy signed Russia's largest project finance deal, securing a loan of US$5.3 billion from the Japan Bank for International Cooperation and a consortium of international banks. Japan Bank for International Cooperation provided $3.7 billion of the funds.\n\nIn October 2009 Sakhalin Energy secured an additional $1.4 billion in project financing, bringing the total Phase 2 project financing up to $6.7 billion. The additional debt was provided by a consortium of international commercial banks and insured by Nippon Export and Investment Insurance (NEXI), an Export Credit Agency owned by the Japanese government.\n\nIn July 2005, a Russian court upheld the appeal of environmentalists who claimed in a petition that Sakhalin Energy's environmental impact assessment, was inadequate. Sakhalin Energy denied the claims and stated them as vague and inaccurate. The environmental and social concerns came to a head at the end of November 2005 when the chief executive of WWF, Robert Napier, said that it would have a \"negative impact on Sakhalin's people and environment\". The WWF asserted that Sakhalin-2 threatens marine life as well as potentially damaging the local communities in the region. Sakhalin Energy responded to the WWF's assertion by saying that the project meets lenders' policies and that environmental and social issues have been met.\n\nIn September 2006, Sakhalin Energy briefly suspended construction work on its pipelines. Oleg Mitvol, the deputy chief of the Russian Federal Service for Natural Resources, had announced in early August 2006 that, according to his data, Sakhalin Energy failed to take all actions required to eliminate the danger of the mud flow. This was supported by President Vladimir Putin.\n\nFor more than 20 years of operation Sakhalin Energy exercises industrial environmental control of its assets to ensure the compliance with legislation on environmental protection, to observe established environmental regulations, and to provide the rational use of natural resources and fulfilment of the plans for minimising the environmental impact.\n\nThe company exercises industrial environmental control in the following areas: – air emissions; – water use and discharge; – waste management. The company has developed and implements the Air Emissions and Energy Management Standard, Water Use Standard and Waste Management Standard. For more details see Sustainable Development Report\n\nOne key concern from environmental groups is that the Sakhalin-2 project will harm the western gray whale population. The whales summer feeding grounds are close to the project's offshore platforms in the Sea of Okhotsk.\n\nIn 2006, the International Union for Conservation of Nature set up the Western Gray Whale Advisory Panel (WGWAP). Its members are marine scientists who give independent advice to Sakhalin Energy about managing any potential risks to the western gray whales. The Russian Academy of Sciences has identified an increasing population of western gray whales in the Sea of Okhotsk during a photo identification research programme. However, in February 2009 the WGWAP issued an urgent warning that the number of western gray whales observed in the primary (near shore) feeding area had decreased and the panel called for a \"...moratorium on all industrial activities, both maritime and terrestrial, that have the potential to disturb gray whales in summer and autumn on and near their main feeding areas.\" In a meeting in April 2009, the WGWAP reiterated its urgent plea for a moratorium. Sakhalin Energy then agreed to suspend its planned summer 2009 seismic testing.\n\nThe Far Eastern Regional Hydrometeorological Research Institute is involved in regular monitoring of the western gray whales near the oil and gas developments on the Sakhalin Shelf.\n\nIn December 2008, Sakhalin Energy won the Environmental Project of the Year award. The company's protection of the western gray whale population was recognised in the Environmental Efficiency of Economics category. The award was presented by Yuri Trutnev, the Russian Federation's Natural Resources Minister.\n\nThe population assessment in 2008 resulted in an estimate of 130 individuals in the western population. No new reproductive females were recorded in 2010, resulting in a minimum of 26 reproductive females being observed since 1995.\n\nMultiple seismic surveys were conducted near Sakhalin in 2010, carried out separately by Rosneft, Sakhalin Energy and Gazprom. The surveys conducted by Sakhalin Energy and Rosneft apparently had corresponding monitoring and mitigation plans. The monitoring data, including acoustic and visual information on whale distribution and behavior, is yet to be analyzed. Two of those seismic surveys occurred later in the year when more gray whales were present and temporally overlapped. Critically endangered North Pacific right whales are also present in the region.\n\nSakhalin Energy in cooperation with Sakhalin-1 operator implementsthe integrated monitoring programme near the north-eastern coast of Sakhalin Island. It shows that the distribution of whales in feeding areas did not vary significantly during the whole period of the study; the number of individuals in the aggregation is increasing, and its reproduction rate is stable. A study was conducted to research the composition, distribution and variability of the communities of gray whale food organisms.\n\nOther concerns are that the project will threaten the livelihood of tens of thousands of fishermen, destroy the key salmon fishing area off the island by dumping one million tons of dredging spoil waste into the sea, and imply a long-time threat of a large oil spill in the Sea of Okhotsk and Sea of Japan. Dredging of Aniva Bay was completed in 2005. In 2005 the salmon harvest was recorded as an all-time high of more than 134,000 tonnes. In 2007 this record was overturned with a salmon catch of 144,181 tonnes.\n\nSakhalin Energy paid compensation of $110,000 to the Russian Federation to cover potential fish impacts from the Sakhalin-2 project. This compensation was paid regardless of whether any impact was recorded on the fishing industry or not. Part of these funds was used to set up thriving salmon hatcheries on Sakhalin Island.\n\nIn 2007, the company started a programme to identify the taimen (a rare protected species of salmon) habitats in the river systems along the pipeline to ensure that production activity will not put the existence of this species at risk.\n\nAt the first stage, the distribution and the number of young taimen in several rivers were studied. In 2011, a new phase was launched under the programme, based on the basin-oriented approach to the study of ichthyofauna, including the Sakhalin taimen.\n\nIn 2017, ichthyological studies were carried out in the Val River basin. In the course of the work, 29 stations were completed in the main channel, eight — in the tributaries of the river, and two — in the adjoining lakes. In total, 19 species of fish from nine families were identified in the Val River, watercourses and reservoirs in its basin. The family of salmonids was represented by the largest number of species: all four species of the Pacific salmon (genus Oncorhynchus) reproducing in the rivers of Sakhalin, three species of the Arctic salmon of the genus Salvelinus, and the Sakhalin taimen. The family of cyprinids was represented by four species; the remaining families were represented by one species each.\n\nAccording to the Sakhalin Environment Watch, the following environmental changes have occurred:\n\nNevertheless, these concerns were doubted. While preparing for work execution and during the construction, Sakhalin Energy conducted baseline studies and operational monitoring of all crossing areas of water bodies. For the operations phase, a comprehensive observation programme was developed to monitor the most environmentally significant and hydrographically complex water bodies, which allows the company to monitor any changes, to identify critical areas, to develop and take timely corrective measures.\n\nIn 2017, the monitoring of hydrological and hydrochemical characteristics and condition of bottom sediments was implemented at 24 water bodies crossed by the pipelines, as well as in the area of potential impact from OPF at the Vatung River, and in the area of the Prigorodnoye production complex at the Mereya River and the Goluboy Brook. In the course of work under the special programme, at the request of oversight bodies, a study was conducted of the Nabil River (with a nameless tributary) and the Nayba River, whose under-river crossings were performed using the horizontal directional drilling (HDD) method.\n\nMonitoring was performed during three hydrological seasons: spring floods, summer low water and autumn high water. Sampling was carried out at two cross sections — the upstream baseline (with no impact from the company's infrastructure assets) and downstream monitoring sections. On most investigated river-crossing sites (from the upstream to the downstream cross sections) no significant horizontal or vertical deformations of river beds were found. The crossings are in satisfactory condition, and no damage to utility lines was found.\n\nIn 2017 the River Ecosystems Monitoring did not reveal surface water contamination with oil products. All measurement values were insignificant and in line with MAC standards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894054", "title": "Demographic history of Jerusalem", "text": "Demographic history of Jerusalem\n\nJerusalem's population size and composition has shifted many times over its 5,000 year history. Since medieval times, the Old City of Jerusalem has been divided into Jewish, Muslim, Christian, and Armenian quarters.\n\nMost population data pre-1905 is based on estimates, often from foreign travellers or organisations, since previous census data usually covered wider areas such as the Jerusalem District. These estimates suggest that since the end of the Crusades, Muslims formed the largest group in Jerusalem until the mid-19th century. Between 1838 and 1876, a number of estimates exist which conflict as to whether Jews or Muslims were the largest group during this period, and between 1882 and 1922 estimates conflict as to exactly when Jews became a majority of the population.\n\nIn 2016, the total population of Jerusalem was 882,700, including 536,600 Jews, 319,800 Muslims, 15,800 Christians, and 10,300 unclassified. In 2003 the population of the Old City was 3,965 Jews and 31,405 \"Arabs and others\" (Choshen 12).\n\nJerusalemites are of varied national, ethnic and religious denominations and include European, Asian and African Jews, Arabs of Sunni Shafi‘i Muslim, Melkite Orthodox, Melkite Catholic, Latin Catholic, and Protestant backgrounds, Armenians of the Armenian Orthodox and Armenian Catholic , Assyrians largely of the Syriac Orthodox Church and Syriac Catholic Church, Maronites, and Copts. Many of these groups were once immigrants or pilgrims that have over time become near-indigenous populations and claim the importance of Jerusalem to their faith as their reason for moving to and being in the city.\n\nJerusalem's long history of conquests by competing and different powers has resulted in different groups living in the city many of whom have never fully identified or assimilated with a particular power, despite the length of their rule. Though they may have been citizens of that particular kingdom and empire and involved with civic activities and duties, these groups often saw themselves as distinct national groups (see Armenians, for example). The Ottoman millet system, whereby minorities in the Ottoman Empire were given the authority to govern themselves within the framework of the broader system, allowed these groups to retain autonomy and remain separate from other religious and national groups. Some Palestinian residents of the city prefer to use the term \"Maqdisi\" or \"Qudsi\" as a Palestinian demonym.\n\nThe tables below provide data on demographic change over time in Jerusalem, with an emphasis on the Jewish population. Readers should be aware that the boundaries of Jerusalem have changed many times over the years and that Jerusalem may also refer to a district or even a subdistrict under Ottoman, British, or Israeli administration, see e.g. Jerusalem District. Thus, year-to-year comparisons may not be valid due to the varying geographic areas covered by the population censuses.\n\nIn the Achaemenid \"Yehud Medinata\" (Judah Province) the population of Jerusalem is estimated at between 1,500 and 2,750.\n\nDuring the First Jewish–Roman War (66–73 CE), the population of Jerusalem was estimated at 600,000 persons by Roman historian Tacitus, while Josephus estimated that there were as many as 1,100,000 who were killed in the war. Josephus also wrote that 97,000 Jews were sold as slaves. After the Roman victory over the Jews, as many as 115,880 dead bodies were carried out through one gate between the months of Nisan and Tammuz.\n\nJerusalem's population during the final Roman Siege of Jerusalem in 70 (CE) has been variously estimated to be around 70,398 by Wilkinson in 1974, 80,000 by Broshi in 1978, and 60,000–70,000 by Levine in 2002. According to Josephus, the populations of adult male scholarly sects were as follows: over 6,000 Pharisees, more than 4,000 Essenes and \"a few\" Sadducees. New Testament scholar Cousland notes that \"recent estimates of the population of Jerusalem suggest something in the neighbourhood of a hundred thousand\". A minimalist view is taken by Hillel Geva, who estimates from archaeological evidence that the population of Jerusalem before its 70 CE destruction was at most 20,000.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Indicates families.\n\nHenry Light, who visited Jerusalem in 1814, reported that Muslims comprised the largest portion of the 12,000 person population, but that Jews made the greatest single sect. In 1818, Robert Richardson, family doctor to the Earl of Belmore, estimated the number of Jews to be 10,000, twice the number of Muslims.\n\nBetween 1838 and 1876, conflicting estimates exist regarding whether Muslims or Jews constituted a \"relative majority\" (or plurality) in the city.\n\nWriting in 1841, the biblical scholar Edward Robinson noted the conflicting demographic estimates regarding Jerusalem during the period, stating in reference to an 1839 estimate attributed to the Moses Montefiore: \"As to the Jews, the enumeration in question was made out by themselves, in the expectation of receiving a certain amount of alms for every name returned. It is therefore obvious that they here had as strong a motive to exaggerate their number, as they often have in other circumstances to underrate it. Besides, this number of 7000 rests merely on report; Sir Moses himself has published nothing on the subject; nor could his agent in London afford me any information so late as Nov. 1840.\" In 1843, Reverend F.C. Ewald, a Christian traveler visiting Jerusalem, reported an influx of 150 Jews from Algiers. He wrote that there were now a large number of Jews from the coast of Africa who were forming a separate congregation.\n\nFrom the mid-1850s, following the Crimean War, the expansion of Jerusalem outside of the Old City began, with institutions including the Russian Compound, Kerem Avraham, the Schneller Orphanage, Bishop Gobat school and the Mishkenot Sha'ananim marking the beginning of permanent settlement outside the Jerusalem Old City walls.\n\nBetween 1856 and 1880, Jewish immigration to Palestine more than doubled, with the majority settling in Jerusalem. The majority of these immigrants were Ashkenazi Jews from Eastern Europe, who subsisted on Halukka.\n\nPublished in 1883, the PEF Survey of Palestine volume which covered the region noted that \"The number of the Jews has of late increased at the rate of 1,000 to 1,500 per annum. Since 1875 the population of Jerusalem has rapidly increased. The number of Jews is now estimated at 15,000 to 20,000, and the population, including the inhabitants of the new suburbs, reaches a total of about 40,000 souls.\"\n\nIn 1881–82, a group of Jews arrived from Yemen as a result of messianic fervor, in the phase known as the First Aliyah. After living in the Old City for several years, they moved to the hills facing the City of David, where they lived in caves. In 1884, the community, numbering 200, moved to new stone houses built for them by a Jewish charity.\n\nThe Jewish population of Jerusalem, as for wider Palestine, increased further during the Third Aliyah of 1919–23 following the Balfour Declaration. Prior to this, a British survey in 1919 noted that most Jews in Jerusalem were largely Orthodox and that a minority were Zionists.\n\nAs of 24 May 2006, Jerusalem's population was 724,000 (about 10% of the total population of Israel), of which 65.0% were Jews (c. 40% of whom live in East Jerusalem), 32.0% Muslim (almost all of whom live in East Jerusalem) and 2% Christian. 35% of the city's population were children under age of 15. In 2005, the city had 18,600 newborns.\n\nThese official Israeli statistics refer to the expanded Israel municipality of Jerusalem. This includes not only the area of the pre-1967 Israeli and Jordanian municipalities, but also outlying Palestinian villages and neighbourhoods east of the city, which were not part of Jordanian East Jerusalem prior to 1967. Demographic data from 1967 to 2012 showed continues growth of Arab population, both in relative and absolute numbers, and the declining of Jewish population share in the overall population of the city. In 1967, Jews were 73.4% of city population, while in 2010 the Jewish population shrank to 64%. In the same period the Arab population increased from 26,5% in 1967 to 36% in 2010. In 1999, the Jewish total fertility rate was 3.8 children per woman, while the Palestinian rate was 4.4. This led to concerns that Arabs would eventually become a majority of the city's population.\n\nBetween 1999 and 2010, the demographic trends reversed themselves, with the Jewish fertility rate increasing and the Arab rate decreasing. In addition, the number of Jewish immigrants from abroad choosing to settle in Jerusalem steadily increased. By 2010, there was a higher Jewish than Arab growth rate. That year, the city's birth rate was placed at 4.2 children for Jewish mothers, compared with 3.9 children for Arab mothers. In addition, 2,250 Jewish immigrants from abroad settled in Jerusalem. The Jewish fertility rate is believed to be still currently increasing, while the Arab fertility rate remains on the decline.\n\nIn 2016, Jerusalem had a population of 882,700, of which Jews comprised 536,600 (60.8%), Muslims 319,800 (36.2%), Christians 15,800 (1.8%), and 10,300 unclassified (1.2%).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894059", "title": "Suicide prevention", "text": "Suicide prevention\n\nSuicide prevention is a collection of efforts to reduce the risk of suicide. These efforts may occur at the individual, relationship, community, and society level. Suicide is often preventable.\n\nBeyond direct interventions to stop an impending suicide, methods may include: \n\nGeneral efforts include measures within the realms of medicine, mental health, and public health. Because protective factors such as social support and social engagement—as well as environmental risk factors such as access to lethal means— play a role in suicide, suicide is not solely a medical or mental-health issue.\nMany methods have been developed to prevent suicide. The general methods include: direct talks, screening for risks, lethal means reduction and social intervention. Individuals with access to proper mental health care, a sense of belonging, good problem-solving skills, and a system of beliefs that discourages suicide are less likely to attempt suicide.\n\nMeans reduction ⁠— ⁠reducing the odds that a suicide attempter will use highly lethal means ⁠— ⁠is an important component of suicide prevention. This practice is also called \"means restriction\".\n\nIt has been demonstrated that restricting lethal means can help reduce suicide rates, as delaying action until the desire to die has passed. In general, strong evidence supports the effectiveness of means restriction in preventing suicides. There is also strong evidence that restricted access at so-called suicide hotspots, such as bridges and cliffs, reduces suicides, whereas other interventions such as placing signs or increasing surveillance at these sites appears less effective. One of the most famous historical examples of means reduction is that of coal gas in the United Kingdom. Until the 1950s, the most common means of suicide in the UK was poisoning by gas inhalation. In 1958, natural gas (virtually free of carbon monoxide) was introduced, and over the next decade, comprised over 50% of gas used. As carbon monoxide in gas decreased, suicides also decreased. The decrease was driven entirely by dramatic decreases in the number of suicides by carbon monoxide poisoning. A 2020 Cochrane review on means restrictions for jumping found tentative evidence of reductions in frequency.\n\nIn the United States, firearm access is associated with increased suicide completion. About 85% of attempts with a gun result in death while most other widely used suicide attempt methods result in death less than 5% of the time. Although restrictions on access to firearms have reduced firearm suicide rates in other countries, such restrictions are difficult in the United States because the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution limits restrictions on weapons.\n\nCrisis hotlines connect a person in distress to either a volunteer or staff member. This may occur via telephone, text messaging, online chat, or in person. Even though crisis hotlines are common, they have not been well studied. One study found a decrease in psychological pain, hopelessness, and desire to die from the beginning of the call through the next few weeks; however, the desire to die did not decrease long term.\n\nIn the United States, the 2012 National Strategy for Suicide Prevention promotes various specific suicide prevention efforts including:\n\n\nRecommendations around media reporting of suicide include not sensationalizing the event or attributing it to a single cause. It is also recommended that media messages include suicide prevention messages such as stories of hope and links to further resources. Particular care is recommended when the person who died is famous. Specific details of the method or the location are not recommended.\n\nThere; however, is little evidence regarding the benefit of providing resources for those looking for help and the evidence for media guidelines generally is mixed at best.\n\nTV shows and news media may also be able to help prevent suicide by linking suicide with negative outcomes such as pain for the person who has attempted suicide and their survivors, conveying that the majority of people choose something other than suicide in order to solve their problems, avoiding mentioning suicide epidemics, and avoiding presenting authorities or sympathetic, ordinary people as spokespersons for the reasonableness of suicide.\n\nThe medication lithium may be useful in certain situations to reduce the risk of suicide. Specifically it is effective at lowering the risk of suicide in those with bipolar disorder and major depressive disorder.\n\nThere are multiple talk therapies that reduce suicidal thoughts and behaviors including dialectical behavior therapy (DBT). Cognitive behavior therapy for suicide prevention (CBT-SP) is a form of DBT adapted for adolescents at high risk for repeated suicide attempts. The brief intervention and contact technique developed by the World Health Organization also has shown benefit.\n\nThe World Health Organization recommends \"specific skills should be available in the education system to prevent bullying and violence in and around the school\".\n\nCoping planning is an strengths-based intervention that aims to meet the needs of people who ask for help, including those experiencing suicidal ideation. By addressing \"why\" someone asks for help, the risk assessment and management stays on what the person needs, and the needs assessment focuses on the individual needs of each person. The coping planning approach to suicide prevention draws on the health-focused theory of coping. Coping is normalized as a normal and universal human response to unpleasant emotions and interventions are considered a change continuum of low intensity (e.g. self-soothing) to high intensity support (e.g. professional help). By planning for coping, it supports people who are distressed and provides a sense of belongingness and resilience in treatment of illness. The proactive coping planning approach overcomes implications of ironic process theory. The biopsychosocial strategy of training people in healthy coping improves emotional regulation and decreases memories of unpleasant emotions. A good coping planning strategically reduces the inattentional blindness for a person while developing resilience and regulation strengths.\n\nThe traditional approach has been to identify the risk factors that increase suicide or self-harm, though meta-analysis studies suggest that suicide risk assessment might not be useful and recommend immediate hospitalization of the person with suicidal feelings as the healthy choice. In 2001, the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, published the National Strategy for Suicide Prevention, establishing a framework for suicide prevention in the U.S. The document, and its 2012 revision, calls for a public health approach to suicide prevention, focusing on identifying patterns of suicide and suicidal ideation throughout a group or population (as opposed to exploring the history and health conditions that could lead to suicide in a single individual). The ability to recognize warning signs of suicide allows individuals who may be concerned about someone they know to direct them to help.\n\nSuicide gesture and suicidal desire (a vague wish for death without any actual intent to kill oneself) are potentially self-injurious behaviors that a person may use to attain some other ends, like to seek help, punish others, or to receive attention. This behavior has the potential to aid an individual's capability for suicide and can be considered as a suicide warning, when the person shows intent through verbal and behavioral signs.\n\nSuicide prevention strategies focus on reducing the risk factors and intervening strategically to reduce the level of risk. Risk and protective factors, unique to the individual can be assessed by a qualified mental health professional.\n\nSome of the specific strategies used to address are:\n\n\nPsychotherapies that have shown most successful or evidence based are dialectical behavior therapy (DBT), which has shown to be helpful in reducing suicide attempts and reducing hospitalizations for suicidal ideation and cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which has shown to improve problem-solving and coping abilities.\n\nPostvention is for people affected by an individual's suicide. This intervention facilitates grieving, guides to reduce guilt, anxiety, and depression and to decrease the effects of trauma. Bereavement is ruled out and promoted for catharsis and supporting their adaptive capacities before intervening depression and any psychiatric disorders. Postvention is also provided to minimize the risk of imitative or copycat suicides, but there is a lack of evidence based standard protocol. But the general goal of the mental health practitioner is to decrease the likelihood of others identifying with the suicidal behavior of the deceased as a coping strategy in dealing with adversity.\n\nWarning signs of suicide can allow individuals to direct people who may be considering suicide to get help.\n\nBehaviors that may be warning signs include:\n\nAdditionally, the National Institute for Mental Health includes feeling burdensome, and strong feelings of pain—either emotional or physical—as warning signs that someone may attempt suicide.\n\nAn effective way to assess suicidal thoughts is to talk with the person directly, to ask about depression, and assess suicide plans as to how and when it might be attempted. Contrary to popular misconceptions, talking with people about suicide does not plant the idea in their heads. However, such discussions and questions should be asked with care, concern and compassion. The tactic is to reduce sadness and provide assurance that other people care. The WHO advises to not say everything will be all right nor make the problem seem trivial, nor give false assurances about serious issues. The discussions should be gradual and specifically executed when the person is comfortable about discussing their feelings. ICARE (Identify the thought, Connect with it, Assess evidences for it, Restructure the thought in positive light, Express or provide room for expressing feelings from the restructured thought) is a model of approach used here.\n\nThe U.S. Surgeon General has suggested that screening to detect those at risk of suicide may be one of the most effective means of preventing suicide in children and adolescents. There are various screening tools in the form of self-report questionnaires to help identify those at risk such as the Beck Hopelessness Scale and Is Path Warm?. A number of these self-report questionnaires have been tested and found to be effective for use among adolescents and young adults. There is however a high rate of false-positive identification and those deemed to be at risk should ideally have a follow-up clinical interview. The predictive quality of these screening questionnaires has not been conclusively validated so it is not possible to determine if those identified at risk of suicide will actually die by suicide. Asking about or screening for suicide does not create or increase the risk.\n\nIn approximately 75 percent of completed suicides, the individuals had seen a physician within the year before their death, including 45 to 66 percent within the prior month. Approximately 33 to 41 percent of those who completed suicide had contact with mental health services in the prior year, including 20 percent within the prior month. These studies suggest an increased need for effective screening. Many suicide risk assessment measures are not sufficiently validated, and do not include all three core suicidality attributes (i.e., suicidal affect, behavior, and cognition). A study published by the University of New South Wales has concluded that asking about suicidal thoughts cannot be used as a reliable predictor of suicide risk.\n\nThe conservative estimate is that 10% of individuals with psychiatric disorders may have an undiagnosed medical condition causing their symptoms, with some estimates stating that upwards of 50% may have an undiagnosed medical condition which if not causing is exacerbating their psychiatric symptoms. Illegal drugs and prescribed medications may also produce psychiatric symptoms. Effective diagnosis and if necessary medical testing which may include neuroimaging to diagnose and treat any such medical conditions or medication side effects may reduce the risk of suicidal ideation as a result of psychiatric symptoms, most often including depression, which are present in up to 90–95% of cases.\n\nAll people can be at risk of suicide. Risk factors that contribute to someone feeling suicidal or making a suicide attempt may include:\n\nMany non-profit organizations exist, such as the American Foundation for Suicide Prevention in the United States, which serve as crisis hotlines; it has benefited from at least one crowd-sourced campaign. The first documented program aimed at preventing suicide was initiated in 1906 in both New York, the National Save-A-Life League and in London, the Suicide Prevention Department of the Salvation Army.\n\nSuicide prevention interventions fall into two broad categories: prevention targeted at the level of the individual and prevention targeted at the level of the population. To identify, review, and disseminate information about best practices to address specific objectives of the National Strategy Best Practices Registry (BPR) was initiated. The Best Practices Registry of Suicide Prevention Resource Center is a registry of various suicide intervention programs maintained by the American Association of Suicide Prevention. The programs are divided, with those in Section I listing evidence-based programs: interventions which have been subjected to in depth review and for which evidence has demonstrated positive outcomes. Section III programs have been subjected to review.\n\nIf you or someone you know displays sign or symptoms of suicidal thoughts or actions these prevention organizations are available:\n\nIn the United States it is estimated that an episode of suicide results in costs of about $1.3 million. Money spending on appropriated interventions is estimated to result in a decrease in economic losses that are 2.5 fold greater than the amount spent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894064", "title": "Arnold of Torroja", "text": "Arnold of Torroja\n\nArnold of Torroja (; ? – 30 September 1184) was a knight of Crown of Aragon and the ninth Grand Master of the Knights Templar from 1181 until his death in 1184.\n\nWhile no date of birth survives for Torroja; he was very old at his death, being in excess of 70 years when he was elected as Grand Master. He had served in the order for many years and was the Templar Master in both Crown of Aragon and Provence.\nArnau de Torroja, brother of the Archbishop of Tarragona Guillem de Torroja, is Grand Master of the crown of Aragon and Provence when he is elected head of the Order in late 1180, to succeed Eudes de Saint-Amand, who died in captivity in Damascus. At that time Arnau de Torroja is over 58 years old, therefore he is a seasoned man in the discipline and in the operation of the Order. Essentially dedicated to the Reconquest of Spain, Arnaldo de Torroja does not know, or does not know it well, the political situation of the Latin States of the East.\n\nHis stage of government is marked by the quarrels that are fought between Templars and Hospitallers, since the latter do not cease to increase their influence and their political power.\n\nArnau de Torroja accepts the mediation of Pope Lucio III and Balduino IV to end these fratricidal struggles. In 1184, the political situation degenerated further, when Reinaldo de Châtillon aided by the Templars and Hospitallers, devastated the Muslim territories of Transjordan on his own. Arnaldo de Torroja will give evidence of a great political sagacity when negotiating a truce with Saladino, who is determined to avenge the incursions of Renaud de Châtillon.\n\nTorroja's military career had mainly been focused on the Reconquista, fighting Muslims for the Crown of Aragon and for Portugal but was principally active in Catalonia and Aragon. His appointment as Grand Master was likely due to his image as an outsider i.e. an experienced Templar whose power base was outside the Holy Land. This appealed to the order as the previous Grand Master Odo de St Amand had become embroiled in Jerusalem's politics but it did mean that Torroja was inexperienced in the \"political situation of the Latin States\". He became the order's new leader in 1181.\n\nDuring the Grand Master's reign the Knights Hospitaller reached a new peak in their influence. There had been rivalry between orders previously but factionalism in the face of renewed Muslim pressure was unacceptable. The two Grand Masters met for mediation with Pope Lucius III and King Baldwin IV and the problems were resolved. In fact Torroja is recorded as a skilled diplomat himself acting as a mediator between several political groups in the East. He also conducted successful peace negotiations with Saladin after raids by Raynald of Châtillon in Transjordan.\n\nIn 1184, Torroja set out with Patriarch Heraclius and Grand Master Roger de Moulins of the Knights Hospitaller to gather European support for the Kingdom of Jerusalem. They planned to visit Italy, England and France, but he fell ill and died at Verona on September 30, 1184. He was succeeded as Grand Master by Gérard de Ridefort.\n\nIn February 2018 was announced the discovery of a tomb in the San Fermo Maggiore church in Verona, which almost certainly is Arnold's final resting place. The tomb contained a stone sarcophagus with a cross pattée carved on it, itself containing a human body, and several analysis conducted by researchers of the Universities of Verona, Bologna and Nottingham together would confirm the identity of the deceased; it would be the first known tomb of a Templar Grand Master.\n\nFrom preliminary analysis, the remains are those of a man in his fifties who lived around seven centuries ago, and who suffered from back pain and toothache. Along with the bones, remains of a dress of fine silk datable to the 12th century, as well as what looks like a shroud, further support the identification. The DNA from the bones will be compared with that of Arnold's brother, the then archbishop of Tarragona, Guillermo de Torroja.\n"}
{"id": "1894077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894077", "title": "Shoba Purushothaman", "text": "Shoba Purushothaman\n\nShoba Purushothaman is a Malaysian-born entrepreneur who has co-founded several companies: Bulletin International, The NewsMarket, Training Ventures. She was co-founder and chief executive officer of The NewsMarket, a digital news video platform.\nPurushothaman served as CEO and President of The NewsMarket until March 2009. Prior to that, she was a partner and director of Bulletin International, an international broadcast PR consultancy that was sold in 2001 to Cordiant Communications Group, now part of WPP, a marketing communications service.\n\nShoba Purushothaman was born and raised in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. She attended the Methodist Girls' School. She has a BA in English Literature and Japanese language from Monash University (Melbourne, Australia), and a Master's in Economic Communication from the American University (Washington D.C., USA). \n\nIn 1986, she was awarded a Journalism Fellowship by the Asia Foundation in the United States. In 2000, she completed the Owner-President Management program at Harvard Business School.\n\nPurushothaman began her career as a journalist with Malaysian Business, a business magazine based in Kuala Lumpur. Upon completing her Master's degree, she began working for Dow Jones & Co.; first for the \"Wall Street Journal\" and then its related newswires Dow Jones Capital Markets Wire and AP-Dow Jones News Service in Washington D.C., New York and London.\n\nIn 1994, after nine years as a journalist, she joined Anthony Hayward at Bulletin International in London as a partner. Between 1995 and 1998, she established Bulletin's Asian operations in Singapore, and grew regional operations in Kuala Lumpur, Melbourne, and Hong Kong. Purushothaman moved to New York in 1998 to establish Bulletin in the U.S The company was sold in early 2001 to Cordiant Communications PLC, a publicly-listed marketing services group that was subsequently acquired by WPP Group.\n\nIn 2000, with $100,000 start-up capital from an angel investor, Purushothaman and her former Bulletin business partner Anthony Hayward co-founded The NewsMarket in 2000. Purushothaman served as chief executive officer and Hayward as chairman of the board. The NewsMarket provided video clips and information via the Internet to news broadcasters. Its technology platform provided web-based delivery of high bandwidth video files in formats that broadcasters could download and edit instantly. This transformed how the marketing industry delivered content to the media, which had previously been via satellite or tape dispatch. In 2005, The NewsMarket provided video clips digitally to over 3000 newsrooms. \n\nWhile Purushothaman was CEO, the NewsMarket established operations in London, Mumbai, Munich, Ahmedabad, Beijing and San Francisco. Investors included Apax Partners (Alan Patricof), Battery Ventures, Hearst Interactive Media, and Softbank Capital. Through The NewsMarket, major brands including Google, Intel, the IOC, adidas, BMW, and Samsung made announcements and provided video clips and information about new products to the news media. The NewsMarket also served non-profit clients including the UNICEF, Greenpeace and the Gates Foundation as well as government agencies including - NATO, the International Olympic Committee, the National Cancer Institute, the United States State Department, and the National Science Foundation. Purushothaman left The NewsMarket operating team in New York in September 2009 upon the completion of its acquisition of NASDAQ-listed Medialink. The company was subsequently re-branded as Synaptic Digital and was acquired in 2012. Purushothaman served on its Board until its 2012 acquisition.\n\nSince 2012, Purushothaman has worked on entrepreneurial ventures which seek to disrupt the corporate training sector with technology-led learning focused on behavioral skill development. Purushothaman and her co-founder Anthony Hayward are targeting the fact that 66% of the world's labor pool today is in emerging markets. This 2.1B large workforce provides opportunities for skills training that leverages technology to scale.\n\nIn 2013, Purushothaman was chosen as one of 15 fellows globally for the inaugural \"On the Board\" fellow by George Washington University. The fellowship, offered in conjunction with the International Women's Forum, trains women to serve on the boards of major corporations. \n\nIn 2016, Purushothaman co-founded Hardskills with Anthony Hayward and Krish Menon to translate their early vision of a technology-led solution to training behavioral skills such as critical thinking, problem-solving, communication and decision-making. Hardskills operates out of the twin hubs of Singapore and Berlin. In 2019, Hardskills and Purushothaman were selected to participate in SAP.io's No Boundaries start-up accelerator in Berlin that aims to help business-to-business start-ups to scale. Purushothaman is based in Berlin.\n\nPurushothaman speaks regularly at conferences globally on entrepreneurship, digital media, workforce development, and marketing. She has given guest lectures at Columbia University, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Stern School of Business, NY University, Annenberg School of Communication, Berkeley University, and the Indian School of Business in Hyderabad. She has also served on the Advisory Board of Columbia University's Strategic Communication program. She was an invited speaker at the 2013 One Globe Conference. She also spoke at the Dell Women Entrepreneurs Forum in 2012 and 2013.\n\nPurushothaman has received the following awards and honours:\n\n"}
{"id": "1894086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894086", "title": "Lake Corangamite", "text": "Lake Corangamite\n\nLake Corangamite , a hypersaline endorheic lake, is located near Colac in the Lakes and Craters region of the Victorian Volcanic Plains of south-west Victoria, Australia. The lake's salinity levels have increased dramatically as the lake level has dropped in recent decades. It is Australia's largest permanent saline lake, covering approximately with a circumference of . It forms part of the Ramsar-listed Western District Lakes wetland site. The indigenous name of the lake is recorded as \"Kronimite\".\n\nThe waterbody is surrounded to the south and east by rocky outcrops (known locally as the \"stony rises\") which were formed by lava flows from Mount Porndon to the south-west and Mount Warrion to the east. The spectacular Red Rock volcanic complex overlooks the south east shore at Alvie. The Mount Warrion flows caused the lake to form by blocking drainage to the east.\n\nAs is typical of lakes in the area, the eastern flanks of the lake consist of lunettes formed by wind borne sediments blown from the lake during periods with dry climates.\n\nFlow into the lake is extremely variable and negligible in the driest years. Currently it is endorheic (there is no outflow) but during the wet decade of the 1950s the lake flooded and became connected via a series of wetlands and lakes to Lake Murdeduke and the Barwon River. It has never been completely dry since European settlement, and there it is evidence it was an open lake for centuries prior to the 1840s when rainfall and runoff were similar to those of the 1950s.\n\nThe main inflows are from Pirron Yaloak Creek flowing from the Otway plains to the south, the Woady Yaloak River flowing from the flanks of the Victorian Midlands to the north, and Salt Creek flowing from the plains to the north-west. The Pirron Yaloak has high nutrient loads due to dairy farming in its catchment.\n\nIn response to the floods of the 1950s, the Woady Yaloak was diverted away from Lake Corangamite and into the Barwon River. The diversion is managed on the basis of a trigger level for the lake, above which the diversion is enacted. This has not occurred in recent years. Levels have been dropping for decades and it is possible that it will dry completely. In 1980 the salinity was approximately that of seawater and has since risen at least four times that of seawater.\n\nAquatic fauna once included fish species such as short-finned eel, common galaxias, flat-headed gudgeon and small-mouth hardyhead. These may still survive in refuges such as Pirron Yaloak creek and various freshwater springs flowing from the stony rises on the south west side of the lake. Springs on the south east side have dried - possibly due to over exploitation of the Warrion Aquifer for irrigation. More recently the fauna included brine shrimp and a species of isopod.\n\nIn the past the lake has supported internationally significant numbers of banded stilts. The lake was previously an important breeding site for waterbirds. Most recently pelican colonies occurred at Wool Wool rocks and Vaughan Island. However, as water levels have dropped, prey have disappeared and foxes have gained access to the colonies, which have now been abandoned. After receiving substantial grants from the government to undertake conservation works, the owner of Vaugn Island used earth moving equipment to remove habitat such as rocks and remnant vegetation. The lake forms part of the Lake Corangamite Complex Important Bird Area, so identified by BirdLife International because it sometimes supports globally important numbers of waterbirds.\n\nA crashed World War II RAAF Wirraway was discovered in June 2005 in Lake Corangamite. Heritage Victoria protects all aircraft crash sites over 50 years old as historic archaeological sites, and the RAAF was briefed on the find. The site was recently exposed by receding water levels in the lake and reported by Parks Victoria officers to Heritage Victoria. The site appears intact and remains mostly submerged. The plane is believed to be Wirraway A20-406, which crashed into Lake Corangamite, from shore, on 17 March 1943.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894101", "title": "Rosaleen Norton", "text": "Rosaleen Norton\n\nRosaleen Miriam Norton (2 October 1917 – 5 December 1979), who used the name of Thorn, was a New Zealand-born Australian artist and occultist, in the latter capacity adhering to a form of pantheistic / Neopagan Witchcraft largely devoted to the mythological Greek god Pan. She lived much of her later life in the bohemian area of Kings Cross, Sydney, leading her to be termed the \"Witch of Kings Cross\" in some of the tabloids, and from where she led her own coven of Witches.\n\nHer paintings, which have been compared to those of British occult artist Austin Osman Spare, often depicted images of supernatural entities such as pagan gods and demons, sometimes involved in sexual acts. These caused particular controversy in Australia during the 1940s and 50s, when the country \"was both socially and politically conservative\" with Christianity as the dominant faith and at a time when the government \"promoted a harsh stance on censorship.\" For this reason the authorities dealt with her work harshly, with the police removing some of her work from exhibitions, confiscating books that contained her images, and attempting to prosecute her for public obscenity on a number of occasions.\n\nAccording to her later biographer, Nevill Drury, \"Norton's esoteric beliefs, cosmology and visionary art are all closely intertwined – and reflect her unique approach to the magical universe.\" She was inspired by \"the 'night' side of magic\", emphasising darkness and studying the Qliphoth, alongside forms of sex magic which she had learned from the writings of English occultist Aleister Crowley.\n\nNorton was born in Dunedin, during a thunderstorm at about 4:30 in the morning, to an English middle class, Anglican family who had moved to the country a number of years before. She was the third of three sisters and her siblings, Cecily and Phyllis, were each over a decade older than her. In later life, she would claim that she had been born a Witch, with certain biological features to mark her out as such, including pointed ears, blue markings on her left knee and a strand of flesh that hung on her body. When she herself was eight, in June 1925, her family emigrated to Sydney. There they settled in Wolseley Street, in the wealthy northern suburb of Lindfield.\n\nAs a child, Rosaleen never liked being conventional, and disliked most other children, as well as authority figures, including her mother Beena, with whom her relationship was very strained. Her father Albert, who was a sailor, was regularly away from home, although provided enough of an income so that the Nortons were able to live comfortably. Nonetheless, she would later describe her life at this time as being \"a generally wearisome period of senseless shibboleths, prying adults, detestable or depressing children whom I was supposed to like, and parental reproaches.\" Due to this, she kept herself to herself, sleeping not in the house, but in a tent which she pitched in the garden for three years, and kept a pet spider at the entrance which she named Horatius, as well as other pets including cats, lizards, tortoises, toads, dogs and a goat.\n\nNorton was enrolled at a Church of England girls' school, where she was eventually expelled for being disruptive and drawing images of demons, vampires and other such beings which the teachers claimed had a corrupting influence on other pupils. She subsequently began attending East Sydney Technical College, studying art under the sculptor Rayner Hoff, a man who encouraged her artistic talent and whom she greatly admired.\n\nFollowing her art college studies, Norton set herself up to become a professional writer, with the newspaper \"Smith's Weekly\" publishing a number of her horror stories in 1934, when she was sixteen, after which they gave her the job as a cadet journalist and then as an illustrator. However, her graphic illustrations were deemed too controversial, and she lost her job at the paper. Leaving \"Smith's Weekly\", Norton moved out of her family home following the death of her mother, and sought employment as an artists' model, working for such painters as Norman Lindsay. To supplement this income, she also took up other forms of work, including as a hospital's kitchen maid, a waitress and a toy designer. Meanwhile, she had taken up a room in the Ship and Mermaid Inn, which overlooked Circular Quay, Sydney, where she began reading various books on the subject of the Western Esoteric Tradition, including those on demonology, the Qabalah and comparative religion.\n\nIn 1935, Rosaleen met a man named Beresford Lionel Conroy and they married on 14 December 1940, before going on a hitch-hiking trip across Australia, from Sydney to Melbourne, and on through to Brisbane and Cairns. Returning to Sydney, Conroy enlisted as a commando and went off to serve in New Guinea during the Second World War, and upon his return, Norton, who had been forced to live in a stable during this period, demanded a divorce, which was finally settled in 1951. During their marriage, the couple lived at 46 Bayswater Road, Kings Cross in 1943.\n\nNow single once more, Norton took up residence in a boarding house known as the Merangaroo in the Rocks area, which she enjoyed for its \"eccentric, communal living.\" She began looking for illustration work once more, being employed by a monthly free-thinking magazine known as \"Pertinent\", which had been founded in 1940 and which was edited by the poet Leon Batt. Batt admired Norton's work, which was being increasingly influenced by pagan themes, describing her as \"an artist worthy of comparison with some of the best Continental, American and English contemporaries.\" Norton contributed poetry and a cover illustration to Batt's anthology \"Not for Fools: A Collection of Pertinent Verse\" (1941).\n\nIt was at \"Pertinent\" that she met a younger man named Gavin Greenlees (1930–1983). Greenlees had grown up in a middle-class family where he had developed an early interest in surrealism, and had become a relatively successful poet, having his work published in such newspapers as \"ABC Weekly\" and \"Australia Monthly\". By mid-1949, the two had become good friends, and hitchhiked together to Melbourne, searching for a venue where Norton could hold an exhibition of her art. They settled on the University of Melbourne's Rowden White Library, where forty-six of her paintings, including \"Timeless Worlds\", \"Merlin\", \"Lucifer\" and \"The Initiate\" were put on public exhibition. However, the exhibition did not go well, and only two days after it had opened, police officers had surveyed the gallery and removed four paintings – \"Witches' Sabbath\", \"Lucifer\", \"Triumph\" and \"Individuation\" – which they deemed to be obscene. Norton was subsequently charged under the Police Offences Act of 1928. At the court case, held in Melbourne's Carlton Court, she was defended by A.L. Abrahams, who argued that the images in the recently published \"The History of Sexual Magic\", a book that the Australian censors permitted, were of a far more obscene nature than Norton's paintings. She won the case, and was awarded £4/4/- in compensation from the police department.\n\nWith the legal hassle in Melbourne over, Norton and Greenlees (who had become lovers), returned to Sydney, where they moved into the house at 179 Brougham Street. This was in the area known as Kings Cross, which at the time was renowned for being a red light district and for housing many of those living bohemian lifestyles, particularly artists, writers and poets. Here Norton associated with many of the locals, including Dulcie Deamer, the \"Queen of Bohemia\", whose book of poetry, \"The Silver Branch\", included one of Norton's pictures. Several of the local cafes in the area, such as the Arabian, the Apollyon and the Kashmir, displayed some of her artworks, and she became a relatively well known figure in Kings Cross.\n\nIncreasingly, many curious visitors came to see Norton and Greenlees at their home, which she had decorated with her own occult murals and a placard on the door stating \"Welcome to the house of ghosts, goblins, werewolves, vampires, witches, wizards and poltergeists.\" The couple, widely seen as local eccentrics, even befriended several sympathetic police officers, although nonetheless, many in the police force disapproved of their activities, and searched for criminal charges that could be levelled at them. In September 1951, they arrested Norton and Greenlees, accusing them of vagrancy (an accusation that could be levelled at anyone without a steady job, whether or not they were actually committing vagrancy). However, a publisher, Walter Glover (1911–) came to their aid, offering them employment as his assistants. After seeing examples of the pair's work, he then decided to publish a book containing a combination of Norton's artwork and Greenlees' poetry.\n\nThe result was published as \"The Art of Rosaleen Norton\" in 1952, and contained such paintings as \"Black Magic\", \"Rites of Baron Samedi\" and an image depicting the horned demon Fohat, with a snake for his phallus, whilst Greenlees' poems featured in the work included \"The Angel of Twizzari\" and \"Esoteric Study\". Restricted to a limited edition of 500 copies, \"The Art of Rosaleen Norton\" had been produced to a high quality, with each edition being bound in red leather with gold blocking, illustrated endpapers, and ribbon marker. It contained thirty-one black and white reproductions of artworks by Norton (twenty-nine of which were full-page or near full-page plates). This work was banned in N.S.W. (Australia) on the grounds of obscenity, and subsequently its import into the USA was forbidden. The publisher, Walter Glover, had intended an edition of 1000 copies (so stated in the book), six hundred and fifty to be bound in cloth (ordinary edition) and three-hundred and fifty in leather (the edition deluxe), with the first twenty copies of the leather edition to include a colour artwork by Norton. Only a small number - probably less than 20 - were issued in leather due to the prohibitive cost and it is also certain that far fewer than the intended 650 copies were bound in cloth, although the exact number that were distributed is unknown. Copies numbered up to 505 are known to exist.\n\nThe book caused a great deal of controversy upon its release, and Glover was charged by police with the production of an obscene publication, with Norton being called into court to explain the nature of her works. The judge ruled that two of the images in the book, \"The Adversary\" and \"Fohat\", did qualify as being obscene under Australian law, and that they had to be removed from all existing copies of the book. Glover \"blacked out\" the two \"obscene\" plates in a few copies, but most were unaltered. The authorities in the United States were even stricter, and customs actively destroyed any copies of the book that were imported into their country. The controversy had helped gain publicity for Norton's work, although the whole affair had bankrupted Glover, and the book's binder Alan Cross, realising that he would never get paid, was instead given his pick of Norton's work, for which he chose \"Fohat\".\n\nIn 1955, a mentally ill adolescent vagrant named Anna Karina Hoffman swore at a police officer, and was subsequently charged, but at her trial claimed that her life had fallen apart after taking part in a Satanic Black Mass run by Rosaleen Norton, a claim which was picked up in by the sensationalist tabloids. Norton, who did not consider herself to be a Satanist but a pagan, denied these claims, and indeed Hoffman later admitted that she had made them up. However, by this time, the press had picked up on the idea of Norton as a devil worshipper, and spun stories around the idea, for instance claiming that she committed animal sacrifice, a practice which in reality Norton abhorred. \n\nWith this public outcry against her work, the police once more began to act against her and those who supported her. In 1955, they successfully took the proprietor of a local restaurant, the Kashmir, to court, for displaying some of her works publicly. That same year, the police raided Norton and Greenlees' home, and accused them of performing \"an unnatural sexual act\", evidence for which they had obtained in a photograph displaying Greenlees in ritual garb flagellating Norton's buttocks. It was subsequently revealed that the photos had been taken at Norton's birthday party, and stolen by two members of their coven, Francis Honer and Raymond Ager, who planned to sell it to \"The Sun\" newspaper for £200.\n\nMeanwhile, the successful English classical music composer and conductor Sir Eugene Goossens (1893–1962), who was then in Australia and who had an interest in the occult, read a copy of \"The Art of Rosaleen Norton\" and decided to write to the artist herself. She invited him to meet her, and the two, alongside Gavin Greenlees, became friends and lovers. In March 1956, Goossens was arrested attempting to bring 800 erotic photographs, some film and ritual masks into Australia from London, and was charged under Section 233 of the Customs Act. In court, he pleaded guilty to bringing \"blasphemous, indecent or obscene works\" into the country and was fined £100. He resigned his positions at both the Sydney Symphony Orchestra and New South Wales Conservatorium of Music and returned to Britain, his international career ending in disgrace. Norton's relationship with Goossens ended.\n\nSoon the life that Norton had held with Greenlees also collapsed, as he was admitted to Callan Park Hospital in 1955. In 1957 he was diagnosed with schizophrenia. Norton would continue to visit and support him, and in 1964 he was let off on temporary release, but suffered a schizophrenic attack and attempted to kill Norton with a knife before being re-admitted. He would only be discharged permanently in 1983, approximately four years after her death.\n\nThe tabloid attention surrounding Norton had intensified in the late 1950s, leading tourists to come into the area in search of her. Despite the fact that at the time witchcraft was still illegal in New South Wales (the British Witchcraft Act of 1735 had been repealed in England in 1951, but would only be repealed in New South Wales in 1971), Norton openly declared herself to be a Witch. She tried to explain her beliefs to interviewers, emphasising her faith in pantheism. Along with selling her paintings, she was also making charms and casting hexes for people, using witchcraft to supplement her income.\n\nFor a short period, Norton moved in to live with her sister Cecily, one of the few family members whom she got on well with, at her flat in Kirribilli, although in 1967 moved back to Kings Cross, taking up residence in a derelict house in Bourke Street, Darlinghurst. She later moved into a block of flats in Roslyn Gardens, Elizabeth Bay, accompanied by her pets. Here she began to live a more reclusive and private existence, avoiding the media attention of previous decades.\n\nNorton died in 1979 from colon cancer at the Sacred Heart Hospice for the Dying, in Darlinghurst, Sydney, still worshipping Pan; a pagan until her death. Shortly before she died she is reported as saying: \"I came into the world bravely; I'll go out bravely.\" A plaque dedicated to her has since been installed in Darlinghurst Road, Kings Cross.\n\nFollowing her death, Norton's many paintings, which were owned by Don Deaton, a local printer and pub owner, were sold at auction to a single collector, Jack Parker, for £5000, who displayed them at his Southern Cross Hotel in St Peters, Sydney.\n\nMeanwhile, Walter Glover gained the rights to republish \"The Art of Rosaleen Norton\", re-releasing it in a facsimile edition in 1982 with a new introduction by Nevill Drury and four colour plates that did not appear in the first edition. There was an 'edition deluxe' of the 1982 reprint, housed in an ivory slipcase and signed by the publisher; approximately 50 copies of this were printed. Following this, in 1984, he published \"A Supplement to the Art of Rosaleen Norton\", which contained colour prints of nineteen of the works which had been featured in her 1949 Melbourne exhibition.\n\nIn December 1982, a play opened at the Tom Mann Theatre in Sydney entitled \"Rosaleen – Wicked Witch of the Cross\", by Barry Lowe. It starred Jane Parker as Norton, Peter Laurence as Glover, Christopher Lyons as Greenlees and Alan Archer as Pan, and was attended by both Wally Glover and Gavin Greenlees themselves. However, according to Nevill Drury, who was invited to the show by Glover, \"the play itself had most of the weaknesses of an amateur production – it was unconvincingly acted and was not acclaimed a critical success.\"\n\nIn 1988, the anthropologist Nevill Drury, who had published a number of books on the subject of witchcraft and magic, released a biography of Norton entitled \"Pan's Daughter: The Strange World of Rosaleen Norton\". This volume was subsequently re-released under the title \"The Witch of Kings Cross\". He later \"substantially expanded and reworked\" this into a new book titled \"Homage to Pan: The Life, Art and Sex-Magic of Rosaleen Norton\", which was published in 2009. Drury had himself met her only on one occasion, at her apartment in 1977, at a time when she had become somewhat of a recluse.\n\nIn 2000, an exhibition of Norton's paintings was held in Kings Cross, Sydney, organised by various enthusiasts including Keith Richmond, and Barry William Hale of the Australian Ordo Templi Orientis. A full-colour catalogue, \"The Occult Visions of Rosaleen Norton\" was published to accompany this exhibition.\n\nIn 2009, Teitan Press published \"Thorn in the Flesh: A Grim-memoir\" by Norton, with an introduction by Australian Norton scholar Keith Richmond. The volume comprises poetry (often humorous), reminiscences, and various occult jottings by Rosaleen Norton, with reproductions of two stunning photographs of Norton, as well as some half-a-dozen examples of her art (mainly in color).\n\nIn 2012 Norton's work was including in the major exhibition, \"Windows to the Sacred\" curated by Robert Buratti, which toured a number of Australian museums until 2016. The exhibition drew together drawings and paintings alongside work by Aleister Crowley, Austin Osman Spare, surrealist James Gleeson and many others.\n\nIn 2013 the Teitan Press issued the first US edition of \"The Art of Rosaleen Norton\", an edition which includes a 40-page introduction by Norton scholar Keith Richmond. Richmond is working on a full-length biography of Norton.\n\nIn 2017 an exhibition of Norton's artwork was exhibited as part of \"Occulture: The Dark Arts\" at City Gallery Wellington, New Zealand curated by Robert Buratti and Aaron Lister. This was the first major showing of the artist in her country of birth.\n\nSeveral filmmakers have expressed interest in making films about Norton's life. In a 1993 interview given to \"Black and White\" magazine, Kenneth Anger said that he was putting finishing touches to a film treatment he had written about Norton's life. . This project was unrealised. More recently, Australian filmmaker Sonia Bible has been working for several years on a documentary about Norton, which will feature interviews with many living people who knew the artist. \n\nAlthough her two main sexual relationships in her life were with men (Gavin Greenlees and Sir Eugene Goossens respectively), Norton was bisexual, and allegedly enjoyed all forms of sexual activity with both men and women, including bondage and sado-masochism. She was also known to enjoy sexual intercourse with gay men, believing that in such situations she could play the active role. She also actively engaged in sex magic amongst her coven, having learned much about it from the writings of Aleister Crowley and from Goossens, who himself had been very much interested in Crowley's work.\n\nNorton devised her own variety of Neopagan Witchcraft, forming a tradition that according to the English Witch Doreen Valiente was known as \"The Goat Fold\". This was the name of her tradition of Wicca.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894106", "title": "Odo de St Amand", "text": "Odo de St Amand\n\nEudes de St. Amand (or Odo or Odon; 1110 – 9 October 1179) was the 8th Grand Master of the Knights Templar, between 1171 and 1179.\n\nSt Amand was born to a family from Limousin, France. He was Marshal of Jerusalem and later Viscount. He was a headstrong leader of the order, which earned him praise and resentment in equal measure. An example of this can be found 1172. When a Templar knight, Gauthier du Maisnil, was accused of murdering an Isma'ili dignitary to king Amalric I of Jerusalem, St. Amand refused to hand him over. He cited the Papal Bull which stipulated the only power over the Templars was Rome.\n\nSt. Amand took part in several expeditions during his time as Grand Master. He spearheaded military action in Naplouse, Jericho and Djerach, scoring considerable victories with the Templars. Perhaps his finest hour was at the battle of Montgisard, where his knights convincingly defeated a superior detachment of Saladin's army.\n\nIn March 1179, St Amand oversaw the construction of the Chastellet fortress. Its position and impregnability made it a thorn in Saladin's side and he offered considerable amounts of money to have it destroyed. It was so effective that Saladin's May assault on Jerusalem in 1179 was defeated. His forces broke on the fortress's thick walls, and the fierce fighting of the Templars stationed there scored heavy losses on the Muslims. Trying to capitalize on the victory, an assault on the Islamic forces was organized at the Battle of Marj Ayun in 1179. It was spearheaded by King Baldwin IV, Raymond III of Tripoli, Odo de St Amand and Roger de Moulins. However, Saladin had regrouped and decimated the Christian forces. Baldwin IV escaped the carnage, taking with him the True Cross, but St. Amand was captured and taken hostage.\n\nIn August 1179, the new Templar fortress was captured and the knights stationed there were beheaded by the Muslim forces. St Amand died in one of Saladin's jails sometime during 1180, although no exact date survives. His release was proposed, in exchange for one Saladin's captive nephews, but negotiations came too late.\n\nNot only were St. Amand's victories important from a military standpoint, but they were vital in gaining fresh pledges of money and resources from homeland countries in Europe. Inspired by the Templars' sensational victory at Montgisard, Renaud, Lord of Margat, donated half of the income from several of his cities to the order's cause.\n"}
{"id": "1894108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894108", "title": "Dunnite", "text": "Dunnite\n\nDunnite, also known as Explosive D or systematically as ammonium picrate, is an explosive developed in 1906 by US Army Major Beverly W. Dunn, who later served as the chief inspector of the Bureau of Transportation Explosives. Ammonium picrate is a salt formed by reacting picric acid and ammonia. It is chemically related to the more stable explosive trinitrotoluene (TNT).\n\nIt was the first explosive used in an aerial bombing operation in military history, performed by Italian pilots in Libya in 1911.\nIt was used extensively by the United States Navy during World War I.\n\nThough Dunnite was generally considered an insensitive substance, by 1911 the United States Army had abandoned its use in favor of other alternatives. The Navy, however, used it in armor-piercing artillery shells and projectiles, and in coastal defense.\n\nDunnite typically did not detonate on striking heavy armor. Rather, the shell encasing it would penetrate the armor, after which the charge would be triggered by a base fuze.\n\nIn 2008 caches of discarded Dunnite in remote locations were mistaken for rusty rocks at Cape Porcupine, Newfoundland and Labrador, Canada.\n\nDunnite can be used as a precursor to the highly stable explosive TATB (1,3,5-triamino-2,4,6-trinitrobenzene), by first dehydrating it to form picramide (attaching the ammonia as an amine group instead of an ion) and then further aminating it.\n"}
{"id": "1894113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894113", "title": "MV William Carson", "text": "MV William Carson\n\nM/V \"William Carson\" was a CN Marine passenger/vehicle icebreaker ferry named in honour of Newfoundland colonial politician William Carson.\n\nBuilt by Canadian Vickers Ltd. in Montreal, Quebec, Canada, \"William Carson\" measured 351 feet (107 m) in length and displaced 8,300 tons. Primarily a freight/cargo ferry, she had a capacity for 260 passengers and 60 cars which were loaded through a side ramp.\n\nDesigned for service between Port aux Basques and North Sydney, Nova Scotia by Canadian National Railways, she was commissioned in 1955. One of the largest vessels built in Canada at the time, her immense size forced her to use the more spacious harbour at Argentia for her first three years in service while the Port aux Basques harbour was modified to accept her.\n\n\"William Carson\" was reassigned to the seasonal Labrador coastal service in 1976, operating between Lewisporte and Happy Valley-Goose Bay.\n\nIn 1977, early in only the second season on the Labrador run, \"William Carson\" sank in 500 feet (150 m) of water on the night of 2 June / morning of 3 June 1977 after striking a small iceberg while navigating 12 nautical miles (22 km) off Battle Harbour. All 129 passengers and 29 crew aboard at the time survived.\n\nThe evacuation was carried out efficiently and passengers and crew waited in lifeboats in the icefield while watching their ship sink. Canadian Coast Guard icebreakers and Canadian Forces helicopters were dispatched to rescue the survivors.\n"}
{"id": "1894114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894114", "title": "Oxford City Council", "text": "Oxford City Council\n\nOxford City Council is the lower tier local government authority for the city of Oxford in England, providing such services as leisure centres and parking. Social Services, Education and Highways services (amongst others) are provided by Oxfordshire County Council.\n\nBetween the 2004 local elections, and 2010 the council was in minority administration, first by councillors from the Labour Party, with the Liberal Democrats being the official opposition. In 2006 these roles were reversed, although two years later the council returned to being run by a minority Labour administration. before they took full control in 2010. Despite the stereotypical view of Oxford as a conservative city, there are no elected Conservatives on the city council. The Independent Working Class Association was represented for a decade between 2002 and 2012.\n\nSince 2002, elections have been held for Oxford City Council in even years, with each councillor serving a term of four years. Each electoral ward within Oxford is represented by two councillors, thus all wards elect one councillor at each election. Prior to 2002, the City Council was elected by thirds.\n\nIn early 2003, the Oxford City Council submitted a bid to become a unitary authority. This was received by the Department for Communities and Local Government but subsequently rejected.\n\nSince 2008, Oxford City Council has been undergoing a programme of Business Transformation which has now been delivered in to the City Council.\n\nOxford City Council contains all of the Oxford East parliamentary constituency, which was won by Labour in the 2010 General Election with an increased majority but was until then a highly marginal seat with the Liberal Democrats. Labour massively increased its majority following the collapse of the Liberal Democrat vote at the 2015 general election. The Council also covers part of the Oxford West and Abingdon parliamentary constituency, which was won from the Conservatives by the Liberal Democrats at the 2017 General Election.\n\nIn 2016, Oxfordshire County Council put forward a 'One Oxfordshire' proposal which would see Oxford City Council and the four other district councils in Oxfordshire abolished and replaced with a single unitary county council for Oxfordshire. In 2017, Oxford City Council voiced their opposition to the proposal and it was subsequently dropped.\n\nIn 2018, the electoral ward boundaries were changed due to population shifts in the city. Therefore all 48 councillors will be elected in 2020, as opposed to half of them. The system of halves will return from 2022 onwards.\n\nOxford City Council became the first UK authority to divest from fossil fuel companies in September 2014.\n\nIn 2011, Oxford City Council had reduced their carbon footprint by 25% (against a baseline of 2005/6) and continues to reduce carbon emissions from its own estate by 5% year on year.\n\nIn 2014, Oxford City Council was named 'Most Sustainable Local Authority' in the Public Sector Sustainability Awards.\n\nOxford City Council leads the Low Carbon Oxford network – a collaboration of over 40 organisations working together to reduce emissions in the city by 40% by 2020.\n\nOxford City Council also leads on delivering the annual Low Carbon Oxford Week festival, which uses culture, creativity and community to inspire local people to take action on climate change. In 2015, the festival saw over 60 local organisations partner to deliver over 100 events across the city and attract over 40,000 visitors.\n\nEnergy Superhub Oxford is a power optimisation project. It will include a lithium-ion battery of 48/50MWh, a flow battery of 2/5MWh, 20 ultra-rapid electric vehicle chargers for public use and ground-source heat pumps for residential properties.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894115", "title": "Bentheim-Steinfurt", "text": "Bentheim-Steinfurt\n\nBentheim-Steinfurt was a historical county located in northwestern North Rhine-Westphalia in the region surrounding Steinfurt, Germany. Bentheim-Steinfurt was a partition of Bentheim-Bentheim, itself a partition of the County of Bentheim. Bentheim-Steinfurt was partitioned: between itself and Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda in 1606; and between itself and Bentheim-Bentheim in 1643.\n\nBentheim-Steinfurt and its territories were converted to Lutheranism in 1544 by Count Arnold II. He was succeeded by his less-religious son, Eberwin III. After the latter's early death at age 26, he was succeeded by his infant child, Arnold III, under the regency of Anna of Tecklenburg. Arnold III married Magdalena of Neuenahr in 1576, and he began attempts to properly convert the county to Protestantism. In the autumn of 1587, Lutheran preachers from across Germany were invited to help reform the Counties of Bentheim, Steinfurt, Lingen and Tecklenburg. The new laws were largely modelled on those of Mörs, and were introduced in Bentheim and Tecklenburg, in the following year, and finally Steinfurt in 1591. Arnold also founded a successful school in Schüttorf during 1588, which was relocated to Steinfurt in 1591 and taught Latin, law, theology, philosophy and (from 1607) medicine. Arnold died in 1606, and was succeeded by his sons Arnold Jobst, William Henry, Frederick Liudolph and Conrad Gumbert. Arnold Jobst created the Higher Church Council 1613 in the Bentheim territory as the supreme spiritual authority below the counts, and also in that year the Reformed Church of Bentheim was created, comprising also the Twelve Articles.\n\nIn 1643, Arnold Jobst died and was succeeded by his son Ernest William. He was greatly influenced by Bernhard von Galen, the Prince-Bishop of Münster, and in 1688 he converted to Roman Catholicism. A fierce crisis ensued in which the Protestant preachers were expelled. Ernest William died in 1693, and it was left to his son and heir, Count Ernest, to resolve the troubles, doing so by converting to Lutheranism in 1701. A new reformed Church constitution was released, modelled on the 1678 Church Constitution of Lingen (it would continue in use until 1971). Bentheim-Steinfurt obtained the Castle Batenburg in 1700, although by that time it had ceased to be permanently garrisoned, and it was destroyed by the French in 1795.\n\nCount Louis obtained the County of Bentheim-Bentheim in 1803. Bentheim-Steinfurt was mediatised to Prussia in 1806, ceded to Berg in 1809, restored to Prussia in 1813 and ceded to the Kingdom of Hanover in 1815.\n\nToday, the still existing branches of the House of Bentheim are the Princes of Bentheim-Steinfurt with their seat at Steinfurt Castle (also still owners of the ancestral seat Burg Bentheim) and the Princes of Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda with their seat at Rheda Castle (also still owners of Hohenlimburg Castle) and the Counts Bentheim-Tecklenburg-Rheda.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1894133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894133", "title": "Dutch metal", "text": "Dutch metal\n\nDutch metal is a form of brass. The alloy typically consists of 85-88% copper and zinc. It is also known by other names such as \"Composition gold leaf\", \"Dutch gold\", \"Schlagmetal\" and \"Schlag leaf\".\n\nIt is very malleable and ductile and so can be beaten into very thin sheets. These sheets are sold for use as metal leaf or imitation gold leaf. The addition of arsenic produces an alloy with similar properties but coloured white.\n\n"}
{"id": "1894149", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894149", "title": "Principality of Leyen", "text": "Principality of Leyen\n\nThe Principality of Leyen was a Napoleonic German state which existed 1806–14 in Hohengeroldseck, in the west of modern Baden-Württemberg. The House of Leyen had acquired many districts in western Germany, and eventually these were inherited by the Leyen line of counts at Adendorf. In 1797, France defeated the Holy Roman Empire and all lands west of the Rhine were lost. Following the defeat of Austria in December 1805, most of the smaller German princely states were mediatized, with the glaring exception of Leyen, which was spared because the Count was nephew to Archchancellor Karl Theodor von Dalberg, a close collaborator of Napoleon's. \n\nIn 1806, Count Philip Francis of Adendorf was raised to a Prince, and his lands were renamed to the 'Principality of Leyen'. The territory formed an enclave surrounded by Baden. Prince Philip Francis, like many other members of the Confederation of the Rhine became largely a French puppet, so following Napoleon's defeat at the Battle of Leipzig in 1813, the Congress of Vienna opted to mediatize his realm and give it to Austria. In 1819, Austria traded it to Baden.\n\n"}
{"id": "1894168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1894168", "title": "Honey to the B", "text": "Honey to the B\n\nHoney to the B is the first album by the pop singer Billie Piper, released in 1998 (see 1998 in music). Billie (she was known at the time only by her first name) was the first and youngest British female artist to have a first single enter the UK pop charts at number one.\n\nA number of hit singles were released from the album, including \"Girlfriend\", \"She Wants You\", the anthemic \"Because We Want To\", and the title track \"Honey to the Bee\". \"Honey to the Bee\" was later covered by the Swedish girl group Play on their 2003 album \"Replay\". The American version of the album differs in that it contains the radio mix of \"Girlfriend\". The single \"Honey to the Bee\" re-entered the official UK Singles Chart at number 17 on 21 January 2007, eight years after initial release, thanks to efforts by the BBC Radio 1 DJ Chris Moyles.\n\nThe album has sold 380,000 copies in the UK as of July 2013.\n\n"}
