{"id": "1857481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857481", "title": "Government Botanical Gardens, Ooty", "text": "Government Botanical Gardens, Ooty\n\nThe Government Botanical Garden is a botanical garden in Udhagamandalam, near Coimbatore(Ooty), Tamil Nadu state, India laid out in 1848. The Gardens, divided into several sections, cover an area of around 55 hectares, and lie on the lower slopes of Doddabetta peak. The garden has a terraced layout. It is maintained by the Tamil Nadu Horticulture Department.\n\nIt ascends the slopes of the hill at an elevation of 2250–2500 metres above Mean Sea Level. The garden enjoys a temperate climate, with an average rainfall of 140 cm, the most of which is received during south-west monsoon, with frosty nights from November to February. The maximum and minimum temperatures are 28 °C and 0 °C respectively.\n\nThe Government Botanical Garden, Udhagamandalm was established in 1848. Its architect was William Graham McIvor. The Marquis of Tweedale prepared the initial layout during the late 1840s. The gardens were established by a subscription of Rs 3 per month amongst the European residents for the purpose of supplying vegetables at a reasonable cost. During the time that Ootacamund was under British control, considerable cultivation of vegetables for the market was carried on by the European settlers and others. Captain Molyneux of the 2nd European Regiment managed the vegetable cultivation. The subscribers received vegetables free of cost. But this arrangement did not work out and in early 1847, a fund was raised by means of donations and subscriptions with a view to forming a horticultural society and a public garden.\n\nThere were very few horticulturists at that time. Seeds and saplings were not available locally, but were available in nearby jungles. It was proposed to establish a public garden. For this purpose, a wood was selected between Lushington Hall (the Present Hebron School) and General Sewell’s Property (the present Raj Bhavan). Shortly after the formation of the society, the committee requested state aid for providing a scientific and practical gardener and funds to meet his salary. This suggestion was accepted and Mr.W.G.McIvor from the Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew was sent to Ootacamund by the East India Company. He arrived in March 1848, converted the upper portion, which was a forest, and the lower portion, which was a swamp, into a beautiful garden. He submitted a report at the end of 1848 to the East India Company in London. He took ten years to complete the layout of the Garden.\n\nThe Gardens have around a thousand species, both exotic and indigenous, of plants, shrubs, ferns, trees, herbal and bonsai plants. In the centre of the Gardens lie a fossilized tree trunk estimated to be 20 million years old. The Gardens consist of several lawns with flowering plants, ponds with lilies, beds of flowers and ferns laid out in an Italian style, several plots of flowering plants, a variety of medicinal plants.\n\nThe present Botanical Gardens are divided into 6 sections namely Lower Garden, New Garden, Italian Garden, Conservatory, Fountain Terrace and Nurseries.\n\nThe lower garden comprises the entrance and the lower lawns. The entrance of the garden leads into an extensive lush green lawn of Kikiyu grass (Pennisetum Clandestinum) which is known for its springy vigour. A fern house with 127 species of ferns is situated on the left along the road leading to Raj Bhavan amidst another expanse of lawns and historic gatehouses. The prime attractions in this section are the carpet-bet design of the map of the Indian Union laid out with selective plants and the fossil trunk of 20 million years old, erected on a pedestal.\n\nTree species of botanical interest such as Hymnosporum flavum, Cordylline australlis, Cedrus deodara, Cupressus funebrils, Araucaria bidwillii, Cupressus macrocarpa, Cryptomeria japonica, Eucalyptus maculate, Eucalyptus citriodora, Salix babylonica, Salix heterophylla, Podocarpus taxifolia, Dracena lanuginosa, Pinus patula, Rhododendron arboreum, Quercus Montana, Quercus cerris, Quercus Serrata, Quercus grilffithi, Quercus illex, Magnolia grandiflora etc., can be seen alongside the lawn.\n\nThe New garden developed recently, comprises the area between the front garden and the crescent-shaped pond at the bandstand. This section consists of:\n\nImportant tree species such as Taxodium mucronatum, Pieris ovalifolia, Juniperus virginiana, Eucalyptus eugenoides, Pinus wallichiana, Photinia lindleyana, Pinus canaariensils, Ginkgo biloba, Araucaria cunninghammi and Cupressus lawsoniana are planted all over the section.\n\nThis garden was first laid out by Italian prisoners of World War I, who were shifted to Ooty. They were placed under the control of the Military station in Ootacamund. Asters, ageratum, balsam, begonia, petunia, pansy, phlox, cosmos, zinnia and perennial flowers like salvia, delphinium, larkspur, and dahlia are the main attraction in this garden.\n\nThe informal landscape of the garden from the entrance, merge into the formal fashioned beds laid out in an Italian pattern, surrounding the centrally situated octagonal bandstand. This part of the garden looks attractive with several varieties of colourful annuals. In the foreground, is a crescent-shaped lily pond for growing several varieties of aquatic plant species. The tree species grown in this part of the garden are Prunus cerasoides, Saurauja nepaulensis, Grevillea hilliana, Aesculus punduana, Pinus sabineana, Cupressus torulosa, Syncarpia glomulifera, Pinus roxburghii, Albizzia julibrissin etc.\n\nThe public conservatory was constructed in 1912 with the objective of grouping various flowering plants. Colourful annuals and perennials like Cineraria, Schizanthus, Calceolaria, Balsam, Cyclamen, Gloxinia, Tuberous begonia, Coleus, Geranium, Chrysanthemum, Primulas, Tydea, Achemenes etc., find a place in this conservatory.\n\nThe bog garden lies towards the east of this conservatory and forms an adjunct to provide a good site for marsh loving plants such as the Weeping willow, Hedychium, Arum, Hydrangea etc.\n\nThe nurseries which are about 300 feet above the lower lawns, consist of eight glass-houses and a series of terraces for introduction and breeding of exotic plants. The glass-houses are utilized for growing Begonias, Ferns, Cacti, Succulents, Orchids and Bulbous plants for providing a continuous supply of potted plants to be grouped periodically in the conservatories. The terraces are utilised for growing plants for cut flowers, seed and also for trial purposes.\n\nThe first Flower Show was organised in the year 1896 by the Chairman of Nilgiris Agri-Horticultural Society, Mr.J.H.Tremenhere, the then Collector of Nilgiris. The Government has taken over the flower show from the Nilgiris Agri-horticultural society in 1980 by forming a committee called the Nilgiris Flower and Fruit Show Committee. The flower show attracts about 150,000 tourists each year from all over the world.\n\nThe flower show is held for two days. The inauguration of the show is held on the first day and on the second day, prizes are distributed to winners of various competitions held in connection with flower show. About 250 exhibitors participate in different categories on the day of flower show. Several government departments and voluntary agencies also display their activities for the benefits of the flower lovers and tourists.\n\nMore than 50 varieties of potted plants, 150 varieties of cut flowers, various kinds of tropical and temperate vegetables and tropical and temperate fruits are exhibited by the competitors. The Floral decorations, Indian and Japanese flower arrangements, Vegetable carving, Flower Rangoli, Bonsai etc., are the major attractions during the show days. The exclusive cut flower stalls from large private and public gardens are also an attraction during the show days. 59 rolling cups, 250 cups and cash prizes are awarded to the best competitors and exhibitors.\n\nA garden competition is also held involving Estate Gardens, Private Cottage Gardens, Public Gardens and various other categories of gardens, to create greater awareness among flower growers. On an average, about 200 gardens compete in the event. Garden competition is held prior to the flower show and best gardens are awarded prizes and cups.\n\nThe fossil tree trunk displayed in the garden is from 20 million years old. Trees carried by rivers and deposited in inland lakes were transformed with replacement of the woody matter by silica give rise to fossil tree trunks (see Polystrate fossil). The fossil tree was presented by the Geological Survey of India, from the National Fossil Park, Tiruvakkarai, South Arcot district, Tamil Nadu.\n\nArboretum is defined as living collections of trees and other woody plants. The area of the arboretum is 1.58 ha. which was established during the year 1992 and maintained by Department of Horticulture with Hill Area Development Programme funds and it is situated near the lake, Udhagai. It was established with an aim of conserving native and indigenous trees. The micro watershed area leading to ooty lake was neglected and the feeder line feeding water to Ooty was contaminated with urban waste and agricultural chemicals. The area is the natural habitats of both indigenous and migratory birds. to conserve flora and fauna of the Nilgiri, the area was developed into the Arboretum. During the year 2005-2006, it was rehabilitated by the funds provided by the Hill Area Development Programme to the tune of 12.50 lakhs by providing permanent fencing, food path and other infrastructure facilities. Various indigenous and exotic tree species of are grown in arboretum and conserved. About 80 trees have been planted in the arboretum.The different type of tree species planted in arboretum are \"Alnus nepalensis, Calistemon lanceolatus, Cupressus macrocarpa, Eugenia apiculata, Hypericum hookerianum, Podocarpus elongata, Populus deltoids, Quercus macrocarpa Salix babylonica, Taxodium mucronatum, Prunus pissardii\" etc.\n\nIn order to add some more species to the Arboretum the following tree species were also planted. \"Celtis tetrandra, Dillenia pentagyna, Elaeocarpres ferrugineus Elaeocarpres oblongus, Evodia lunuankenda, Glochidion neilgherrense, Ligustrum perrotetti, Litsaea ligustrina, Litsaea wightiana, Meliosma arnotiana Meliosma wightii, Michelia champaca, Michelia nilagirica, Pygeum gardneri, Syzygium amothanum, Syzygium montanum, Alnus nepalensis, Viburnum erubescens Podocarpus wallichianus, Rhodomyrtus tomentosa, Rapanea wightiana, Ternstroemia japonica, Microtropis microcarpa, Psychotria conjesta Photinea notoniana Cedrela toona Symplocos cochinchinensis, Elaeocarpus ganitrus, Platanus orientalis, Jacaranda mimosaefolia, Magnolia grandiflora\" etc.\n\nThe Garden is also famous for the Toda hill called the Toda mund. This place gives the visitors an insight into the lives of the original tribes of Ooty called the Todas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857484", "title": "Lost Maples State Natural Area", "text": "Lost Maples State Natural Area\n\nLost Maples State Natural Area is a large, pristine area of beautiful hills and canyons on the upper Sabinal River in the Edwards Plateau Region of Texas. It is designated a \"Natural Area\", rather than a \"State Park\", which means the primary focus is the maintenance and protection of the property's natural state. Accordingly, access and recreational activities may be restricted if the Texas Parks & Wildlife Department (TPWD) deems such action necessary to protect the environment.\n\nThe Lost Maples State Natural Area is located about north of Vanderpool, Texas and northwest of San Antonio. The preserve sits along the Sabinal River in western Bandera County and far eastern Real County.\n\nThe land for Lost Maples State Natural Area was acquired by the state of Texas in 1973 and 1974, and was opened to the public in 1979. In 1980, the Heritage Conservation and Recreation Service made the Natural Area a National Natural Landmark.\n\nMan has inhabited this area since prehistoric times. The recorded history of the area, beginning with Spanish explorations in the 17th century, identifies a number of Indian groups, including the Apache, Lipan Apache and Comanche as having foraged, hunted, and occasionally lived in this part of the Texas Hill Country.\n\nMuch of the area's limestone bedrock is exposed on elevated terrain, which has a shallow, discontinuous cover of dark gray stony clay (Eckrant series). Most valley bottoms have deep, dark brown silty clay (Krum series) or clay loam (Pratley series). Deposits of gravel, sand, and loam (Orif-Boerne association) lie within a few hundred feet of the Sabinal River. All of these soils have free calcium carbonate throughout their profiles and are moderately alkaline. Despite a high clay content in most cases, poorly drained soils are too inextensive to be mapped.\n\nAs in much of the Hill Country, white-tailed deer (Odocoileus virginianus) are by far the most common large mammal on the property. Additionally, wild turkeys, armadillos, skunks, raccoons, opossums, rabbits, and fox squirrels are present. Feral pigs, exotic axis deer, porcupines, rock squirrels, and ringtails may occasionally be encountered. Bobcats, coyotes, both red and grey foxes, and rarely, mountain lions, also inhabit the general area, but are seldom seen by visitors. Bird life, including several different raptors, is particularly abundant and diverse throughout the year. Venomous snakes include the copperhead and coral. The Sabinal River maintains surface water even during exceptional drought (as in 2011), so fish and other aquatic animals are always present.\n\nPrimary vegetation includes the Ashe juniper (often called \"mountain cedar\"), several different species of oak, and also bigtooth maple, sycamore, mesquite, Texas persimmon, Texas mountain-laurel, Texas madrone, redbud, wild grape, prickly pear, and various types of brush, grasses, and ferns. Bigtooth Maple colors are brilliant if autumn is droughty, or has cold nights, but are muted in a mild, damp autumn. Texas red oak gives a fine crimson display almost every year and may retain its leaves well into winter. The Natural Area is most crowded when the fall colors peak in late October- early November. Evidence suggests that the maple trees that give the preserve its name are relics: remnants of a larger, more widespread population that flourished during the cooler and wetter climate of the last glacial period. Today, their distribution is limited by the relative rarity of the soils and microclimates they require to thrive.\n\nA more extensive list of the preserve's fauna and flora can be found at the LMSNA Ranger Station.\n\nLost Maples is a State \"Natural\" Area and therefore has been developed only enough to provide access to visitors, while still protecting its natural character. The reserve contains of hiking trails, 30 campsites, and eight primitive camping areas. In the center of the park are two small lakes along Can Creek.\n\nThe Texas Parks & Wildlife Department urges all visitors to respect the Leave No Trace set of wilderness ethics... 1) Plan Ahead and Prepare, 2) Travel on Marked Trails Only, 3) \"Always\" Dispose of Waste Properly, 4) Leave Behind What You Find, 5) Never Build An Open Fire, 6) Respect All Wildlife, and 7) Be Considerate of Other Visitors. Please do your part by following this code, and protecting the park's sensitive natural and cultural resources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857488", "title": "Ninja Academy", "text": "Ninja Academy\n\nNinja Academy is a 1988 Nico Mastorakis' comedy film starring Will Egan, Gerald Okamura, Kelly Randall, Michael David, Robert Factor, and Jeff Robinson. It is a low-budget B-movie similar to the\" Police Academy\" series of movies.\n\nNinja Academy is the tale of the struggle between two ninja dojos for adults, Chiba's (played by Okamura) located out in the woods in Topanga Canyon and Chiba's former classmate Addleman's (Seth Foster) Beverly Hills Ninja Academy in Beverly Hills, California.\n\nAttending this session at Chiba's dojo are stereotypical characterizations of a mime (Robinson), a James Bond-like secret agent (David), a Gung-ho military enthusiast (Factor), a klutz (Jack Freiberger), an immature rich college student named Josh (Egan), and two bimbos (Kathleen Stevens and Lisa Montgomery) who had selected the school because it had been rated number one by a martial arts magazine. Addleman and his students seek revenge on Chiba for stealing their number one ranking and the new students must defend the school while Josh romantically pursues his teacher, Chiba's daughter Gail (Randall).\n\nAs with many Mastorakis films, there is one scene that includes brief full frontal nudity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857489", "title": "King Diamond (band)", "text": "King Diamond (band)\n\nKing Diamond is a Danish heavy metal band formed in 1985 by vocalist King Diamond, guitarists Andy LaRocque and Michael Denner, bassist Timi Hansen and drummer Mikkey Dee. Diamond, Denner and Hansen had recently departed the group Mercyful Fate, and decided to form a new band under the King Diamond moniker, as it was already known from the Mercyful Fate days. In 1986, King Diamond released their debut album \"Fatal Portrait\". Since then the band have released a total of twelve studio albums (most of them concept albums), two live albums, two extended plays, five compilations and five singles.\n\nSince the band's inception, there have been over fifteen musicians in and out of King Diamond, with the only two mainstays being vocalist King Diamond and guitarist Andy LaRocque. In 1987 the band released their second studio release \"Abigail\" (their first concept album). Throughout the 1980s, King Diamond released a total of four studio albums. In the early 1990s, the band was put on hold when King Diamond reunited with his former outfit Mercyful Fate. After reforming King Diamond in 1994, Diamond would balance recording and touring with both Mercyful Fate and his eponymous band throughout the 1990s. Since the early 2000s, King Diamond have kept recording and touring and, since 2014, the band has been composed of vocalist King Diamond, guitarist Andy LaRocque, guitarist Mike Wead, drummer Matt Thompson, and bassist Pontus Egberg.\n\nThe band was formed in 1985 by vocalist King Diamond, guitarist Michael Denner, and bassist Timi Hansen. The three had recently departed from the group Mercyful Fate, which fell apart due to musical differences between King Diamond and guitarist Hank Shermann. According to Diamond, when he, Denner, and Hansen decided to form a new band, they chose the name \"King Diamond\" to \"get better deals\", and because the name was already known from Mercyful Fate. To round-out the line-up of the King Diamond band, the group chose drummer Mikkey Dee and guitarist Andy LaRocque.\n\nIn July 1985, the band began recording their debut album at Sound Track Studio in Copenhagen, Denmark. On 25 December, they released their debut single \"No Presents for Christmas\". \"Fatal Portrait\", the band's first full-length studio album, was released on 17 February 1986, through Roadrunner Records. Produced by Rune Höyer and vocalist King Diamond, the album charted at number 33 on the Swedish album chart, and spawned the single \"Halloween\", which was released on 6 June 1986.\n\nIn December 1986, King Diamond began recording their second studio album, once again at Sound Track Studio in Copenhagen, Denmark. The band released the single \"The Family Ghost\" on 1 July 1987, for which they also shot their first music video. On 15 June 1987, King Diamond released the album \"Abigail\", their first concept album based on an original story by vocalist King Diamond. The album went on to chart at number 39 in Sweden, number 68 in the Netherlands, and at number 123 on the \"Billboard\" 200. Following \"Abigail\"'s release, guitarist Michael Denner left the band due to touring strains. He was subsequently replaced by Mike Moon for the album's supporting tour, during which the band recorded the live album \"\" (however it wasn't released until 1991).\n\nFollowing the completion of the \"Abigail\" tour, guitarist Mike Moon and bassist Timi Hansen were replaced by Pete Blakk and Hal Patino respectively. On 13 September 1988, King Diamond released the album \"\"Them\"\", which was recorded at M.M.C. Studio in Copenhagen, Denmark. Another concept album, \"\"Them\"\" charted at number 38 on the Swedish album chart, number 65 on the Dutch album chart, and at number 89 on the \"Billboard\" 200, making \"\"Them\"\" King Diamond's highest charting album in America to date. Another music video was also shot, this time for the single \"Welcome Home\". On 1 November, the group released \"The Dark Sides\" EP, a collection of previously released material as well as one unreleased track.\n\nFollowing the completion of the supporting tour for \"\"Them\"\", Mikkey Dee left King Diamond. However, he was rehired to play drums on the band's follow-up album, after which he was replaced by Snowy Shaw. On 21 August 1989, King Diamond released the album \"Conspiracy\", which charted at number 41 on the Swedish album chart, number 64 on the Dutch album chart, and at number 111 on the \"Billboard\" 200. A continuation of the storyline from \"\"Them\"\", \"Conspiracy\" was the first King Diamond album recorded in the United States being recorded at Rumbo Recording Studios in Canoga Park, California. A music video was also made for the track \"Sleepless Nights\".\n\nIn June 1990, King Diamond began recording fifth studio album \"The Eye\" at Sweet Silence Studios in Copenhagen, Denmark. It was released on 30 October 1990. The drums on the album were performed by drummer Snowy Shaw using drum pads. It debuted at number 179 on the Billboard 200. However, the band did not tour in support of the album due to the lack of label support. Following \"The Eye\", Hal Patino and Pete Blakk were replaced by Sharlee D'Angelo and Mike Wead respectively. However this line-up ended-up not recording any material, as vocalist King Diamond reunited with Mercyful Fate in 1993 (King Diamond would balance recording and touring with both Mercyful Fate and his eponymous band throughout the 1990s).\n\nAfter recording and touring with Mercyful Fate, King Diamond reformed his eponymous band in 1994. With the line-up of King Diamond, Andy La Rocque, as well as guitarist Herb Simonsen, bassist Chris Estes and drummer Darrin Anthony from the Texas band Mindstorm, the band spent September through October 1994, recording their next album. Released on 6 June 1995, \"The Spider's Lullabye\" was the band's first album on Metal Blade Records, as well as their first studio release since \"Fatal Portrait\" to not be a concept album. The album went on to peak at number 31 on the Finnish album charts. In March 1996, King Diamond began recording their seventh studio album at the Dallas Sound Lab. Released on 1 October 1996, \"The Graveyard\" saw King Diamond returning to writing concept albums. The album also charted at number 23 in Finland. After the album's release, drummer Darrin Anthony was forced to leave the band due to a car accident and was subsequently replaced by Chastain drummer John Luke Hebert.\n\nOn 24 February 1998, King Diamond released the album \"Voodoo\", which charted at number 27 on the Finnish album chart and at number 55 on the Swedish album chart. After the album's release, guitarist Herb Simonsen was replaced by Glen Drover. When Mercyful Fate was put on hold in 1999, King Diamond began recording the album \"House of God\" at the Nomad Recording Studio in Carrollton, Dallas, Texas, with their new bassist Paul David Harbour, who had replaced Chris Estes. Released on 20 June 2000, the album peaked at number 60 in Sweden. After the album's release, guitarist Glen Drover and drummer John Luke Hebert were replaced by Mike Wead and Matt Thompson respectively.\n\nIn May 2001, King Diamond began recording their tenth studio album once again at the Nomad Recording Studio. Released on 29 January 2002, \"\" was a sequel to 1987's \"Abigail\" album. It was also the first King Diamond album since 1990's \"The Eye\" to feature bassist Hal Patino who rejoined the band during the recording process. King Diamond did not tour in support of \"Abigail II\", as Metal Blade could not provide tour support, due to illegal downloading. Despite this, the album went on to peak at number 24 in Finland and at number 42 in Sweden.\n\nOn 21 October 2003, King Diamond released the album \"The Puppet Master\", which charted at number 36 in Sweden. Besides featuring the band, the album also featured additional vocals from Livia Zita, who is also King Diamond's wife. During the supporting tour for \"The Puppet Master\", the band recorded the live album \"Deadly Lullabyes\", which was released 21 September 2004. In April 2006, former bandmate Mikkey Dee (currently with Scorpions, formerly with Motörhead) made a guest appearance at King Diamond's sold-out gig in Gothenburg, Sweden. On 26 June 2007, King Diamond released the album \"Give Me Your Soul...Please\". The album went on to peak at number 25 on the Finnish chart, number 28 on the Swedish chart, and at number 174 on the \"Billboard\" 200. The track \"Never Ending Hill\" also garnered a Grammy nomination for \"Best Metal Performance\" (the group's first). A music video was also made for the album's title track.\nIn late November 2010, King Diamond was rushed to the hospital after having several heart attacks. There it was discovered that three of his arteries had been blocked, which meant he had to undergo triple bypass surgery. Following a successful operation, he returned home to rest. Diamond also stopped smoking entirely, changed his diet and began getting regular exercise, according to his wife. On 27 January 2012, Diamond made a special appearance at the \"5th Annual Nomad Recording Studio Throwdown\", performing three songs: \"The Family Ghost\", \"Evil\" and \"Burn\". On 9 June 2012, the entire King Diamond band played at the Sweden Rock Festival. They were also joined on stage by Michael Denner, Hank Shermann, Mickey Dee and Volbeat's Michael Poulsen. According to vocalist King Diamond, the band expects to begin writing new material for their next album in the fall of 2012.\n\nOn 19 July 2014, the band announced that Hal Patino has been relieved of his duties, for reasons very similar to why he was fired from the band in 1990. He was replaced by Pontus Egberg, formerly of the bands Lion's Share and the Poodles. In October, King Diamond announced a new compilation titled \"Dreams of Horror\" which was released in November through Metal Blade Records, covering the band's entire career. In December, Egberg became an official member of the band.\n\nKing Diamond took part in the 2015 Rockstar Energy Mayhem Festival along with bands such as Slayer (who was chosen as the headliner), Hellyeah, The Devil Wears Prada, Thy Art Is Murder, Jungle Rot, Sister Sin, Sworn In, Shattered Sun, Feed Her to the Sharks, Code Orange and Kissing Candice. The tour ran from 26 June through 2 August. At the 8 July 2015 show in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, King Diamond was forced to perform without his signature face paint due to a severe eye infection, in which doctors advised against the use of any makeup. He said that there was no negative feedback from the fans. The band then embarked on a special tour from October to December 2015 with thrash metal band Exodus, where the 1987 album \"Abigail\" was performed in its entirety.\n\nIn 2018, King Diamond started work on the thirteenth studio album, which would be divided into two parts to connect with its theme. The first part of the series was later revealed to be titled \"The Institute\". It will be released in 2020 with a North American tour taking place in the fall of 2019. The first single from the album, \"Masquerade of Madness\", was made available for streaming on 8 November 2019. On 25 January 2019, the first ever live video \"Songs for the Dead Live\" was released.\n\nCurrent members\n\n"}
{"id": "1857492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857492", "title": "Geografija Slovenije", "text": "Geografija Slovenije\n\nThe series Geografija Slovenije (English \"Geography of Slovenia\"), published by the Anton Melik Geographical Institute, was founded in 1998 to publish the latest findings in Slovenian geography research. It focuses on the physical, human, and regional geography of Slovenia as well as on Slovenian geographical terminology, Slovenian place names, and Slovenian thematic cartography.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857500", "title": "Frederick, Hereditary Prince of Denmark", "text": "Frederick, Hereditary Prince of Denmark\n\nFrederick, Hereditary Prince of Denmark (; 11 October 1753 – 7 December 1805) was heir presumptive to the thrones of Denmark and Norway. He was the only surviving son of King Frederick V by his second wife, Juliana Maria of Braunschweig-Wolfenbüttel.\n\nHereditary Prince Frederick acted as regent on behalf of his half-brother King Christian VII from 1772 to 1784.\n\nFrederick was born at Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen on 11 October 1753. To provide for his future position, at the age of 3 he was elected coadjutor in the Prince-Bishopric of Lübeck. This meant that in time he would succeed the Prince-Bishop then in office, Frederick August. This plan had to be abandoned, however, and Frederick stayed in Denmark as a junior member of the royal family.\n\nHe married Duchess Sophia Frederica of Mecklenburg-Schwerin (1758–1794) in Copenhagen on 21 October 1774. She was a daughter of Duke Louis of Mecklenburg-Schwerin and Princess Charlotte Sophie of Saxe-Coburg-Saalfeld.\n\nHis elder half-brother, King Christian VII, suffering from a severe mental illness (believed to have been schizophrenia), and having been divorced from his wife, Caroline Matilda of Great Britain (who was then exiled), Prince Frederick was designated as regent of Denmark in 1772, when 18 years old. His regency was mostly nominal, the power being held by his mother, Queen Juliane Marie, and minister Ove Høegh-Guldberg.\n\nHe acted as regent until the coup of 1784, when his 16-year-old half-nephew Frederick (the future King Frederick VI), took power and regency.\n\nAfter the coup, Frederick was left without much influence at the court. \nAfter Christiansborg Palace was destroyed by fire in 1794, Hereditary Prince Frederick moved with his family to Amalienborg Palace. Sophia Frederica died the same year, shortly after the move. Hereditary Prince Frederick outlived his wife by 11 years and died at Amalienborg Palace on 7 December 1805. Eventually, his son Christian Frederick would succeed Frederick VI as king.\n\nPrince Frederick is an important character in Norah Lofts' historical novel \"The Lost Queen\" (1969), chronicling the tragic marriage of King Christian VII and Queen Caroline Matilda. The book suggests that Frederick was himself in love with the Queen and jealous of her lover Johann Friedrich Struensee – which is not firmly attested in historical sources.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857506", "title": "Ethnicity and association football", "text": "Ethnicity and association football\n\nEthnicity and football is a description of the global acceptance of association football, with players from many different races and countries participating. While football has moved around the world from its roots in England during the 18th century, the progress of non-European players has sometimes been hindered, with racism a continuing problem in many different countries.\n\nPeople of different races have sometimes not been accepted as players in European football. This has changed in recent times, due to societal change as well as campaigning on the part of the football authorities in different countries. UEFA and the European Union support the Football Against Racism in Europe (FARE) project which aims to stop racism.\n\nGlobalisation has created a sense of homogenised culture in football where players from different ethnic backgrounds have congregated in one particular team. This enables the team to form some kind of \"supranational\" (Maguire J, 2009) entity that in turns loses its local or national identity but gains a mixture of strengths that ideally improves the team's performance. A good example of this are the teams associated to the Premier League based in England. All of these teams are made up of players from different ethnic groups and are considered the best players in the World. Manchester United were crowned FIFA Club World Cup Champions in 2008, which exemplified the importance of ethnic diversity in a team - only three of the players in their championship game were of English background.\n\nGlobalisation has also affected football from a different perspective. John Nauright (2004) explains that during the globalisation process, local and national identity is celebrated especially during significant sporting events such as the Football World Cup. An estimated 715.1 million people from different countries and ultimately ethnic backgrounds watched the Football World Cup in 2006 which makes it the most viewed event in history. This results in businesses looking for opportunities to advertise their brand through sponsorship and funding which leads to commercialism in football.\n\nIn 1992, Rupert Murdoch and British Sky Broadcasting purchased the rights to televise the English FA Premier League for 304 million English pounds which was 600% more than the previous contract. Feeding off the passionate interest for football, matches were televised all over the world through satellite television which made the league the \"crown jewel\" of football. Since then aspiring players from different ethnic backgrounds have strived to play in this league to achieve fame, money and satisfaction of reaching a defining peak in football excellence. Sales and revenue through advertising and technology have been determining factors in the commercialisation of football which has resulted in the globalisation of the sport. The main reason for sport organisations adopting the business model is to ensure their financial sustainability for the future. In order to gain a larger market share of audiences, well known football players from different countries who have loyal local fans are recruited. An example of this is Liverpool Football Club in the Premier League recruiting Fernando Torres from Spain where he played for a local club and had many supporters. This caused the loyal supporters to change allegiances as a sign of support for their player. This has in turn increased the ethnic diversity within the sporting code but also brought to attention the apparent racism associated among the players.\n\nIn several countries, black players were often harassed by spectators; stories of players being pelted with racial slurs, chants, and even bananas were quite commonplace, although there had been black players playing in Europe since the early days of football.\n\nAndrew Watson, an amateur player, was capped for Scotland three times in the early 1880s, and played in the Scottish Cup for Queen's Park.Arthur Wharton, who played for Preston North End and Sheffield United, amongst others, is recognised as the world's first black professional footballer. Jack Leslie was the first black player to be selected for England, but never actually played for his country – which is thought to be due to the colour of his skin.\n\nFrank Soo was the first (and so far only) ethnic Chinese person to play for England, during the Second World War, though these were not official internationals. Other non-white footballers in Britain in the early and mid-20th century included Eddie Parris, a black Welsh international; Mohammed Abdul Salim, an Indian playing for Celtic; Tewfik Abdullah, an Egyptian who played for Derby County; the Jamaican Lindy Delapenha, who won a title with Portsmouth before moving to Middlesbrough; his countryman Gil Heron, who played for Celtic; and Charlie Williams, a British black defender for Doncaster Rovers who later became a successful entertainer.\n\nIt was not until Viv Anderson that black footballers started to become accepted into the England national football team. Since then, many black players have played for England, and several have served as captain, notably Paul Ince, John Barnes and Sol Campbell.\n\nNowadays in the bigger leagues minority players have become part of football, and are supported. This was seen in the French football team which won the 1998 World Cup. The team was composed of white and black Frenchmen including immigrants from or descendants of several countries/colonies such as Argentina (David Trezeguet), Senegal (Patrick Vieira), French Guiana (Bernard Lama), Martinique (Thierry Henry), Guadeloupe (Lilian Thuram, Bernard Diomède), Ghana (Marcel Desailly), plus a New Caledonian (Christian Karembeu); the whites also included an ethnic Armenian and Kalmyk (Youri Djorkaeff), another player of Armenian descent (Alain Boghossian), a Basque (Bixente Lizarazu), a Breton (Stephane Guivarc'h), Robert Pires whose parents hail from Portugal and Spain, and an ethnic Berber (Zinedine Zidane). This composition was seen as an indicator of racial harmony, in a country where race and immigration has been and still remains a source of tension and conflict.\n\nIncidents in 2004 have also shown this to be the case in some bigger leagues, where there are a visible number of players from a different ethnicity. A notable incident occurred that year when England played Spain in Madrid, and home fans were heard by the world media to be making \"monkey chants\" at some of the black players on the pitch, forcing the Spanish football authorities to apologise for their fans.\n\nOn November 27, 2005, Marc Zoro, a player from Côte d'Ivoire, was playing for the Italian team Messina when he was racially abused by Inter Milan fans to the extent that he picked up the ball and threatened to leave the field. This caused the Italian football authorities to propose to start the following week's matches late after an anti-racism display. This came at the same time that European Union legislators were threatening Europe-wide legal sanctions against national football associations and clubs whose fans were seen to take part in racist actions.\n\nEthnic minorities were instrumental in establishing the National Soccer League, which lasted from 1977 to 2004 as Australia's top-flight competition; however, clubs such as South Melbourne, Sydney Olympic, Sydney United, Adelaide City and Marconi could only draw fans from the ethnic group which they originated from. Names such as \"Hellas\", \"Croatia\" and \"Juventus\" were removed from clubs in an attempt to draw new supporters from outside of these ethnic groups, but falling attendances and financial difficulties caused the NSL to fold. Eighteen months later, the A-League was launched with no clubs having ethnic ties, and several teams, such as Melbourne Victory and Central Coast Mariners, were newly created. Almost all of the old NSL powerhouses are now dominating their respective state leagues.\n\nSometimes certain clubs have often been connected with religious denominations, such as both Tottenham Hotspur and Ajax with Judaism, or the Old Firm Rangers F.C. and Celtic F.C. of Glasgow, who are seen to be Protestant and Roman Catholic respectively. This has led to problems with violence and occasionally death, but often equates to little more than derogatory nicknames.\n\nPlayers of Oriental origin have a long tradition – often forgotten – in European football. Hong Y 'Frank' Soo played 9 times for England during the Second World War. Sammy Chung coached Wolverhampton Wanderers to a UEFA Cup Final in 1972, and later as manager helped lead them to promotion from the old 2nd division to the old 1st division. Vikash Dhorasoo, of Indo-Mauritian descent, played for the French national team during the 2006 FIFA World Cup. South Korean Park Ji-Sung, who played for Manchester United, is an example of an Asian footballer who can be a rising star in big clubs in Europe. Park may be preceded by the Japanese player Hidetoshi Nakata, who played at various European clubs such as Perugia, AS Roma, Parma, Bologna, Fiorentina and lately at Bolton Wanderers. Another Japanese player, Shunsuke Nakamura, overcame criticism of his lack of pace and stamina, and helped seal Celtic FC's 2006-2007 Scottish Premier League season title. The most prominent example of an Asian player having a successful career in a big European League in the 20th century was Cha Bum-Kun, a Korean striker who played for Darmstadt, Frankfurt and Leverkusen in the German league, scoring 98 goals in 308 matches in Germany. He was later given the title \"Asia's Player of the Century\" by the International Federation of Football History and Statistics. Other Korean, Iranian, Chinese and Japanese football players have also gained starting places in their respective clubs in Europe. Some football clubs hire the Asian football stars hoping to increase merchandise sales from the player's respective Asian country. However, in Britain in 2007, there were complaints of a lack of Asian participants in top league football.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857508", "title": "Piero Gobetti", "text": "Piero Gobetti\n\nPiero Gobetti (; June 19, 1901, Turin – February 15, 1926, Neuilly-sur-Seine) was an Italian journalist, intellectual and radical liberal and anti-fascist. He was an exceptionally active campaigner and critic in the crisis years in Italy after the First World War and into the early years of Fascist rule.\n\nA student of law at the University of Turin, he set up his own review \"Energie Nove\" ('New Energies') in 1918. There he promoted the cause of radical cultural and political renewal, aligning himself with the many critics of liberal parliamentary politics. Drawing upon the idealist philosophy of Benedetto Croce, Gobetti identified cultural change with a spiritual transformation that would unite public and private life. He also attached himself to causes such as educational reform and votes for women led by the independent deputy, Gaetano Salvemini.\n\nIn 1920, Gobetti was influenced by Antonio Gramsci, fellow ex-student and Communist editor of the \"L'Ordine Nuovo\" ('New Order'). Gramsci was the leading intellectual during the proletarian unrest in Turin in 1919–1920 which led to the factory occupations in September 1920. Inspired by the workers' movement and Gramsci's argument that they constituted a new revolutionary subject, Gobetti gave up editing \"Energie Nove\" in order to rethink his commitments.\n\nIn 1922, he began publishing a new review, \"La Rivoluzione Liberale\" (\"Liberal Revolution\"). Here he expounded a distinctive version of liberalism, conceived as a philosophy of liberation rather than a party doctrine. Deeply moved by the Russian Revolution, which he understood as a liberal event, Gobetti conceived the working class as the leading subject of a liberal revolution. In seeking to take over the factories and govern themselves, he argued, the workers expressed a desire for autonomy and collective freedom that could renew Italy. Liberals, Gobetti argued, should understand the term 'liberal' as adaptable to different classes and institutional arrangements other than the bourgeoisie and parliamentary democracy.\n\nResistance leader Ada Gobetti was his wife and contributed to \"La Rivoluzione Liberale\" as well as other magazines.\n\nGobetti was also highly attentive to the dangers of Benito Mussolini's Fascist Party, which entered government in October, 1922. Whilst conservative liberals hoped to make temporary use of Mussolini's popularity in order to restore parliament, Gobetti recognised the tyrannical orientation of fascism. He claimed fascism represented the 'autobiography of the nation', an accretion of all the ills of Italian society. In particular, fascism continued a political tradition of compromise, absorbing political opponents rather than allowing conflict to express itself openly. Liberalism, he argued, was anti-fascist insofar as, on his account, it recognised that liberty was achieved through struggle and conflict.\n\nIn late 1924, Gobetti also began to edit a journal of European literary culture entitled \"Il Baretti\". He used the journal to put into practice his idea of liberal anti-fascism and his conviction that the Italian people could learn to reject the insular nature of fascist culture by means of an education in European culture.\n\nFor his rigid opposition to Fascism, Gobetti's review was closed down and he himself was assaulted by fascist thugs. He was beaten up in 1925 and escaped to Paris early the next year. He died there in February, 1926. He is buried in the Pere Lachaise cemetery.\n\nFollowing his death and despite his relatively few writings, Gobetti became a symbol of liberal anti-fascism, inspiring intellectuals such as Carlo Levi and Norberto Bobbio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857509", "title": "All Night Long (All Night)", "text": "All Night Long (All Night)\n\n\"All Night Long (All Night)\" is a hit single by American singer Lionel Richie from 1983. Taken from his second solo album, \"Can't Slow Down\" (1983), it combined Richie's soulful Commodores style with Caribbean influences. This new, more dance music, pop-inspired approach proved popular, as the single reached number one on three \"Billboard\" charts (pop, R&B and adult contemporary). In the UK, it peaked at number two on the singles chart.\n\nThe song lyrics were written primarily in English, but Richie has admitted in at least one press interview that \"African\" lyrics in the song, such as \"Tom bo li de say de moi ya\" and \"Jambo jumbo\", were in fact made-up gibberish of his own invention. Richie has described these portions of the song as a \"wonderful joke\", written when he discovered that he lacked the time to hire a translator to contribute the foreign-language lyrics he wished to include in the song.\n\nAn accompanying music video was produced by former Monkee and TV video pioneer Michael Nesmith and directed by Bob Rafelson.\n\nRichie performed the song at the closing ceremonies of the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.\n\nOriginal 1983 version\n\nPersonnel as listed in the album's liner notes are:\n\n\nRichie recorded a new version of the song with Australian singer Guy Sebastian in 2011. All proceeds went towards the Queensland floods and New Zealand earthquake appeal. The re-recorded version was produced by RedOne and was released to iTunes Stores in Australia and New Zealand on 18 and 16 March, respectively.\nIt debuted on the New Zealand Singles Chart at number twelve on 21 March 2011 and on the Australian ARIA Singles Chart at number twenty-six on 28 March 2011.\nIn 2018, English singer, arranger, composer, producer, and multi-instrumentalist Jacob Collier collaborated with Take 6 and the Metropole Orkest on a version of \"All Night Long\". Collier's arrangement won the 2020 Grammy Award for \"Best Arrangement, Instruments and Vocals\".\n\nIn 2019, Swedish singer Benjamin Ingrosso recorded a version at the Spotify studios, Stockholm. It was released in March 2019 and peaked at number 5 on the Swedish charts and was certified gold on 16 April 2019.\n\nParts of the song were used in \"I Like It\", a 2010 song composed by Enrique Iglesias, Pitbull, and RedOne with samplings from Lionel Richie as the 1983 classic is interpolated after the first and third choruses. The release was a big hit for Enrique Iglesias featuring Pitbull. The song was also included in Iglesias's 2010 album \"Euphoria\".\n\nThe Tanzanian singer Diamond Platnumz samples part of the song in his 2016 hit single \"Kidogo\" that features Nigerian duo P-Square.\n\n\"Liar\" by Camila Cabello sampled the classic song of Lionel Richie by interpolation of the melody accompanying the lyrics \"Fiesta, forever\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857514", "title": "Harbour Town", "text": "Harbour Town\n\nHarbour Town is a shopping centre concept that incorporates multiple factory outlets in one centre. The centres especially popular with locals and tourists. As of March 2015, there were two locations owned and operated as Harbour Towns: Biggera Waters, on Queensland's Gold Coast, and at Adelaide Airport, in South Australia. A centre in Docklands, Victoria was sold in March 2014.\n\nThe Perth, Western Australia outlet centre now known as \"Watertown Brand Outlet Centre\" was initially called Harbour Town from its opening in 2003 until its sale in October 2013. The Perth shopping property is now owned by Far East Organization of Singapore.\n\nOpening in 1999 and located on the Gold Coast Highway just 20 minutes north of Surfers Paradise en route to theme parks, Harbour Town was the first and is still the largest purpose-built brand direct factory outlet shopping centre in Australia.\nHarbour Town Gold Coast is situated on the corner of the Gold Coast Highway and Oxley Drive Biggera Waters, Queensland.\n\nHarbour Town Adelaide opened in 2003 and is situated next to the Adelaide Airport, South Australia. It features over 130 outlet stores along with supermarkets, chemists, cafes and eateries, fresh food, homewares and outdoor products.\n\nWatertown (formerly Harbour Town Perth) opened in 2003 in the Perth CBD. The shopping centre covers 1.9 hectares. It is located at 840 Wellington Street, West Perth. It was formerly constructed and own by the Lewis Land Group in joint venture with ING Real Estate Development Australia. The precinct has about 120 outlet stores. The Perth shopping property is now owned by Far East Organization of Singapore since October 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857521", "title": "Genevieve Michelle", "text": "Genevieve Michelle\n\nGenevieve Michelle, born Genevieve Guzchack, is an American model and actress.\n\nMichelle was featured in Playboy magazine in the late 1990s and the 2000s.\n\nAs an actress, under the name Genevieve Guzchack, she has appeared in the films:\n\"Golf Balls! (1999)\" as \"Kristy - Pennytree Girl #3\",\n\"The Last Tomorrow (2007)\" as \"Sarah Zimmer\",\n\"Suitable for Murder (2008)\" as \"Stiletto\",\n\"Disaster Movie (2008)\" as \"Bikini Girl #1\",\n\"Moonlighters (2010)\" as \"The Wife\",\n\"Dallywood (TV 2011)\" as \"Stacey\", and\n\" (2010/2011-post production)\" as \"Domonique\".\n"}
{"id": "1857522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857522", "title": "Wates, Kulon Progo", "text": "Wates, Kulon Progo\n\nWates is the capital of Kulon Progo Regency, in Yogyakarta Special Region on Java, Indonesia. It is located about 25 km to the west of Yogyakarta.\n"}
{"id": "1857525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857525", "title": "Vanderpool, Texas", "text": "Vanderpool, Texas\n\nVanderpool is a small unincorporated community in Bandera County in the U.S. state of Texas, in the Texas Hill Country, which is part of the Edwards Plateau. It lies west of Bandera. Hunting, ranching and tourism are prime contributors to the regional economy. Vanderpool had a population of 22 in 1990. It is considered part of the San Antonio Metropolitan Statistical Area. The area zip code is 78885. The town is named after the first postmaster, L.B. Vanderpool.\n\nThe Utopia Independent School District serves students in the area.\n\nVanderpool is home to the Lone Star Motorcycle Museum, which features over 50 classic motorcycles from 1910 to the modern era. Lost Maples State Park is located a few miles north of town.\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by hot, humid summers and generally mild to cool winters. According to the Köppen Climate Classification system, Vanderpool has a humid subtropical climate, abbreviated \"Cfa\" on climate maps.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857532", "title": "Indonesian National Party", "text": "Indonesian National Party\n\nThe Indonesian National Party (, PNI) is the name used by several nationalist political parties in Indonesia from 1927 until the 2000s. The first PNI was established by future President Sukarno. After independence, the new PNI supplied a number of prime ministers, and participated in the majority of cabinets in the 1950s and 1960s. The party was fused into the Indonesian Democratic Party in 1973. In the years following the reforms of the late 1990s, a number of parties claiming to be the continuation of previous PNIs stood in elections, but gained only a handful of seats.\n\nOn 4 July 1927, Sukarno, a young engineer at the time, and members of the Algemeene Studie Club formed a movement called the Indonesian National Association. In May 1928, the name was changed to the Indonesian National Party. The organization's aim was economic and political independence for the Indonesian archipelago. This would be achieved by non-cooperation with the Dutch colonial regime. By the end of 1929, the organization had 10,000 members. This alarmed the authorities, and Sukarno and seven party leaders were arrested in December 1929. They were put on trial for being a threat to public order and in September 1930 received sentences of one to three years - Sukarno received the longest sentence. Without its leader, the party was paralyzed and dissolved itself in 1931.\n\nIn December 1930, Sutan Sjahrir established an organization called Indonesian Nationalist Education (), known as the New PNI (\"PNI Baru\") as a rival to the Indonesia Party (Partindo), which was itself a replacement for the original PNI. Rather than confronting the Dutch, the PNI-Baru aimed to nurture future political leaders, rather than take direct action. In 1932, Mohammad Hatta became the organization's leader, but two years later he and Sjahrir were arrested and the PNI-Baru faded away.\n\nFollowing the Indonesian Declaration of Independence in August 1945, on the same day as the Central Indonesian National Committee (KNIP) was established, August 22, the wartime Japanese \"Jawa Hokokai\" (Java Service Association) was renamed the Indonesian National Party, or PNI-Staatspartij (State Party). However its associations with the Japanese occupation made it unpopular and it lacked internal cohesion. As it result, it was dissolved at the end of August.\n\nOn 29 January 1946, the Indonesian National Party was revived as a merger of the recently established Indonesia People's Union (Serindo) and a number of smaller parties, together with activists from parties including Parindra and Partindo, but this time without Sukarno, who as president, was above politics. The party attracted considerable support due to its having the same name as Sukarno's original party as well as the short-lived party of August 1945. It was supported by the a large proportion of republican administrative officers who had been members of the Dutch East Indies, as well as their subordinates and older former members of the pre-war party. Other support came from the Indonesia middle class, and left-wingers. This very broad range of membership made the party rather \"unwieldy\". The leadership was to politically closer to the left wing of the party. During the Indonesian National Revolution, the party opposed negotiating with the Dutch, and disagreed with the socialist stance of the early Indonesian cabinets. It leadership, dominated by figures from the old PNI and Partindo gave the party a \"radical-nationalist\" stance.    \n\nBecause of its support among regional administrators, when the Working Body of the KNIP, which carried out the day-to-day duties of the full KNIP, was increased in size to 25 members, the PNI was awarded ten seats. A subsequent reorganisation of the KNIP in July 1946 saw the PNI being given 45 of the 200 seats. PNI members were subsequently appointed to four posts in the Third Sjahrir Cabinet, including minister of justice and vice-minister of finance.  \n\nIn November 1946, the Linggadjati Agreement was signed between the Republic of Indonesia and the Netherlands. The PNI was critical of a number of its provisions. In an expansion of the KNIP to 514 seats, ostensibly to make it more representative, but also to ensure that the Linggadjati Agreement was ratified, the PNI gained no more seats, while its representation in the working committee fell to 5 of the 47 seats. Following the signature of the agreement, PNI and Masyumi members resigned in protest, bringing down the Second Amir Sjarifuddin Cabinet. The PNI was given two seats (later three) in the presidential cabinet that replaced it.\n\nDuring 1948, the PNI right wing was increasingly sidelined in deciding party policy, and the centre-left grouping became dominant. Speeches at the party's third annual congress in June 1948 emphasized socialist ideals. As a result, in November 1948, right-wingers who also supported Prime Minister Hatta's policy of negotiating with the Dutch, putting them at odds with the majority of the membership, split off to form the Great Indonesia Unity Party (PIR). Following the Dutch recognition of Indonesian sovereignty at the end of 1949, the PNI had two seats in the cabinet of the United States of Indonesia (RUSI). Hatta depended on PNI-Masyumi support: the PNI was pro-unitary state, but Hatta and Masyumi were more cautious. From April 1950, there were growing differences between the PNI and Masyumi. In July, a group of PNI members dissatisfied with the selection of Sidik Djojosukarto as party chairman split off and formed the Indonesian National Party - Freedom (\"PNI Merdeka\"), subsequently renamed the National People's Party (PRN). This left the radical-nationalists such as chairman Sidik Djojosukarto greater control over the party\n\nAfter the dissolution of the RUSI and the reestablishment of the unitary state in August 1950, the PNI refused to join the cabinet, claiming it had been offered too few posts for its 43 seats in the Provisional People's Representative Council. This was the first cabinet without PNI representation since the fall of the First Sjahrir Cabinet in early 1946. However, the next cabinet, formed in April 1951 was another Masyumi-PNI coalition. Despite this, the PNI leadership helped bring it down when its policies prioritized economic stability over radical nationalism.\n\nThe Wilopo Cabinet, in office from April 1952-June 1953, was headed by the PNI's Wilopo. Despite this, support from the PNI rank and file was lukewarm, as the party grew closer to Communist Party of Indonesia (PKI) and more nationalist and radical. All four PNI ministers were accused of poor party discipline, and were criticised at the sixth PNI congress for their part in cabinet policies. Eventually, internal conflicts, particularly between the PNI and Masyumi, brought the cabinet down. It was replaced by another PNI-led cabinet, with Ali Sastroamidjojo as prime minister.\n\nAs the 1955 elections neared, the PNI leadership realized that it would need to raise funds and increase party membership. It took advantage of its cabinet positions to charge levies in return for permits and government loans. However, the increase in membership weakened the position of the highly centralized party leadership. Campaigning on a program that prioritized above all nationalism, together with a strong centralized government and secularism, the PNI came first in the 1955 Indonesian general election, with a 22.3% share of the vote. It was followed by Masyumi, the Nahdlatul Ulama (NU) and the PKI. The PNI thereby gained 57 of the 257 seats in parliament. Many of these new members of parliament were local branch leaders, who were replaced by new recruits. The  cabinet resulting from the election was a coalition of the PNI, Masyumi and the NU, with Ali Sastroamidjojo returning to the post of prime minister. At the eighth party congress, shifts within the membership led to a narrow win for the conservative Suwirjo as party chairman. The same congress saw major changes to the organization of the party, with the establishment of a decentralized and inclusive Congress Working Committee to set party policy.\n\nIn 1956, tired of national political instability, President Sukarno called for the parties to be \"buried\" and spoke of his concept of \"guided democracy\". In the following year, as details of Sukarno's concept emerged, there were demonstrations in support of it. In March 1957, the regional Permesta rebellion broke out, and Army Chief of staff Naution proposed Sukarno declare martial law nationwide. Sukarno agreed, and on 14 March the cabinet resigned, and martial law came into force, thus ending parliamentary democracy. Sukarno and the Army were to use the six years it remained in force to take measures to limit the freedom of parties and to pass laws that the parties were opposed to.\n\nIn May 1957, the Working Cabinet, which was officially non-party, passed an emergency law establishing a National Council based on functional groups. Its official purpose was to be \"a reflection of society\", to strengthen the position of the cabinet by associating it with Sukarno and to serve as a counterpoint to the party political system, in practice Sukarno wanted it to undermine the cabinet and parliament.\n\nMeanwhile, the regional rebellion put the PNI in a difficult position as it simultaneously supported the central government and wanted to maintain its support in the outer (non-Java) islands. When local elections were held in Java and South Sumatra in 1957, the PKI made significant gains at the expense of the PNI, which dropped from first place (in the 1955 vote) to third. During the campaign, the campaign the PKI attacked the PNI for being a \"half-way group\", positioned indecisively between the political left and the right.\n\nDisorganization and insubordination by regional party branches characterized the period under the chairmanship of Suwirjo, and resulted in left-wingers breaking away in July 1958 to found a new party called Partindo. At the same time, some of the PNI's mass organizations began to openly challenge the party leadership. They were supported in this by Sukarno and the Army, who both wanted to undermine the party system as part of the move towards Guided Democracy. Matters came to a head at the ninth party congress in July 1960 when these mass organizations joined forces with Sidik's radical nationalists to overturn the decentralization of party policymaking and elect Sidik ally Ali Sastroamidjojo as party chairman.\n\nIn 1963, martial law, with its restrictions on party activity, was lifted. From 28 August - 1 September, the PNI held its tenth annual congress. This resulted in a move to the left, both in the composition of the leadership and in party policy. The party ideology of Marhaenism was formally defined as \"Marxism adapted to Indonesian conditions\". The party began to move towards a mass-based organization, in line with the philosophy of Sukarno and the PKI. However, there were sharp internal divisions between the left-wing central party organization and the right-wing regional party leaders. These were manifested in the government's land reform program, with local party branches working with landlords to frustrate attempts to abide by the Land Reform law. When the PKI supported unilateral land seizures, local PNI members attacked the PKI.\nOn 30 September 1965, a coup attempt took place that was subsequently blamed on the PKI. In the aftermath of this, the PNI, which was seen as a PKI-collaborator, faced strong pressure from the army to purge its left wing and pro-PKI faction, led by party chairman Ali Sastroamidjojo and Surachman. There was resistance to this from the party's Central and East Java branches, and this led to clashes with anti-Sukarno students in 1966 and 1967. The army subsequently banned PNI activities in Sumatra. However, conservatives Hardi and Suharto associate Hadisubeno Sosrowerdojo persuaded the party leadership to hold a \"reunification\" meeting in April 1966. Attendance at this meetings was controlled by the army and the left-wing group was forced out. Osa Maliki became chairman. On 21 December 1967, the PNI leadership declared that the party had abandoned its philosophy of Sukarno and his teachings, General Suharto, but then acting president - ordered local authorities to assist the party in \"crystallization and New Order consolidation with itself\". The now-weakened PNI was subsequently given 68 seats in the People's Representative Council, which had itself been purged of PKI members, making it the largest group. In April 1970, Osa Maliki died, and strong pressure from the army resulted in Hadisubeno, who was thought to be compliant with government aims, being selected as chairman. Along with eight other political parties and the government-sponsored Golkar organization, the PNI contested the 1971 elections. It came third, but won less than 7% of the vote. In 1973, the PNI along with other nationalist and Christian parties was merged into the Indonesian Democratic Party in order to limit the number of political parties and to weaken opposition to the regime.\n\nIn October 1995 an organization called Indonesian National Union (\"Persatuan Nasional Indonesia\") was established as a vehicle for PNI followers. At that time, it was still not possible to establish political parties. After the fall of President Suharto its members agreed to agreement to revive PNI. The party was officially declared on 17 July 1998 with the aims of upholding the unitary republic of Indonesia and opposing federalism as this could lead to national disintegration. Former PNI member Supeni was the first party chair. However, a number of other parties were also established, each claiming to be the heir of the old PNI. As a result, five different PNIs were registered with the Ministry of Justice Dept. After a change in its articles of establishment, the PNI led by Probosutedjo declared itself as the PNI-Marhaenis Front (PNI-FM) on 10 February 1999, while a merger of two other PNIs resulted in the PNI-Marhaen Mass (PNI-MM) led by Bachtar Oscha Chalik  \n\nAll three parties contested the 1999 legislative election. The PNI-MM and the PNI-FM each won one seat in the legislature, but despite winning a larger share of the vote - 0.36% - Supeni's PNI won no seats. None of these parties achieved the threshold of votes allowing them to contest the 2004 legislative election. The PNI therefore changed its name to the PNI-Marhaenisme, which was officially declared in May 2002. Now led by Sukarno's daughter Sukmawati Sukarnoputri, it won only 0.31% of the vote in 2004 and no seats. It did not contest the 2009, 2014 or 2019 elections. The PNI-FM and PNI-MM under new names failed the verification process for the 2004 elections and did not contest any further elections.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857539", "title": "Grease gun (tool)", "text": "Grease gun (tool)\n\nA grease gun is a common workshop and garage tool used for lubrication. The purpose of the grease gun is to apply lubricant through an aperture to a specific point, usually from a grease cartridge to a grease fitting or 'nipple'. The channels behind the grease nipple lead to where the lubrication is needed. The aperture may be of a type that fits closely with a receiving aperture on any number of mechanical devices. The close fitting of the apertures ensures that lubricant is applied only where needed. There are four types of grease gun:\n\n\nThe grease gun is charged or loaded with any of the various types of lubricants, but usually a thicker heavier type of grease is used.\n\nIt was a close resemblance to contemporary hand-powered grease guns that gave the nickname to the World War II-era M3 submachine gun.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857544", "title": "Ferdinand, Hereditary Prince of Denmark", "text": "Ferdinand, Hereditary Prince of Denmark\n\nFrederick Ferdinand, Hereditary Prince of Denmark () (22 November 1792 – 29 June 1863) was grandson of King Frederick V and heir presumptive to the throne from 1848 until his death. Had he lived five months longer, he would have outlived his nephew, King Frederick VII, and become King of Denmark.\n\nPrince Ferdinand was born at Christiansborg Palace in Copenhagen on 22 November 1792 as the youngest child of Frederick, Hereditary Prince of Denmark and Norway and Sophie Frederikke of Mecklenburg, thus being a grandson of late King Frederick V of Denmark and Norway.\n\nHis uncle King Christian VII being mentally unstable, his father had acted as regent after the fall of Johann Friedrich Struensee in 1772. But after the coup of 1784, when the king's son Crown Prince Frederick took power and regency, Hereditary Prince Frederick had been without influence at the court. However, Crown Prince Frederick being without male heirs, Hereditary Prince Frederick and his sons were in the immediate line of succession to the throne.\n\nWhen Christiansborg Palace was destroyed by fire in 1794, the young Prince and his family moved to Amalienborg Palace where he was brought up, spending the summers at Sorgenfri Palace.\n\nPrince Ferdinand married at Frederiksberg Palace on 1 August 1829 his first cousin once removed, Princess Caroline of Denmark (1793–1881). She was the eldest daughter of the above-mentioned sonless Crown Prince Frederick, now King Frederick VI of Denmark. When Frederick VI died in 1839, because of the Salic Law Caroline did not succeed to the throne, which was inherited by the closest male relative, Ferdinand's elder brother Prince Christian Frederick.\n\nThe number of male members of the Royal House was so low in those decades that Ferdinand himself was always very close to the succession. At the death of his brother Christian VIII in 1848, the aged Ferdinand became heir presumptive.\n\nFerdinand died childless, which was one of the reasons why the main branch of the Danish Royal House soon became extinct, triggering the second war of Schleswig.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857549", "title": "Aalto Media Lab", "text": "Aalto Media Lab\n\nAalto Media Lab is a transdisciplinary laboratory and studio focusing on digital design and its impact to culture and society. The Lab is part of the Department of Media at the School of Arts, Design and Architecture, Aalto University in Finland.\n\nMedia Lab is a platform for MA and Doctoral studies, and for research on design and production of digital culture, digital media, interaction design, new media art and technologies and the effect they have on society. The Lab is a coordinator and a partner in number of international research, design and development projects focusing on digital technology, art, design, media and culture.\n\nMedia Lab was founded in 1993. The first MA program was started in 1994 and the first research group assembled in 1996. The roots of the Media Lab are in the early Scandinavian media art, demoscene, game design, hacker culture, and participatory design communities. Since its formation the Media Lab has been part of a relatively active digital culture scene in Helsinki and its surroundings.\n\nSince 1995 Media Lab has collaborated in, generated and coordinated research and development projects funded by the European Commission, Tekes (the Finnish Funding Agency for Technology and Innovation), Nordic Council, UNESCO and a number of industrial partners, including Nokia, Elisa, TeliaSonera, Sanoma, YLE and MTV3.\n\nIn 1998 the lab became an official department at the university. In January 2000 the Media Centre Lume – the National Research and Development Center of audiovisual media – was officially opened. Lume was located in the same premises as the Media Lab and offered its resources for study and research projects carried out in the Lab. The Lume was closed in 2016 as part of the new Aalto University's reorganisation.\n\nIn 2001, the Ministry of Education Finland chose Media Lab as one of the national top educational units.\n\nIn 2006 Media Lab was invited to the Ars Electronica. The \"Beta Lounge\", Campus Exhibition presented over 20 works by Media Lab's MA, DA and alumni students and its four research groups of that time. Since then Media Lab researchers, designers and artist have collaborated in with the Ars Electronica Center in various projects.\n\n2008 saw the beginnings of Aalto University, a new university. Aalto is the fusion of the University of Art and Design Helsinki where Media Lab is located, Helsinki School of Economics and Helsinki University of Technology.\n\nIn 2010, as part of Aalto reorganisation, the Media Lab joined forces with Photography and Graphic Design, formerly of the Visual Culture department, to create the Department of Media.\n\nIn 2015 the Media Lab moved to a temporary space at the Aalto Campus in Otaniemi. In autumn 2018 the Lab moved to a new Väre-building designed and built for the School of Arts, Design and Architecture.\n\nMedia Lab provides platform for Master of Arts and Doctor of Arts (equivalent to PhD) studies in three areas: New Media Design and Production, Sound in New Media and Game Design and Production. The doctoral students often work within the thematic research groups. Teaching is in English and about 40% of students are non-Finns.\n\nThere are three research groups in the Media Lab:\n\nThe Learning Environments research group (LeGroup) is involved in research, design and development of New Media tools, as well as their use and application, in the field of learning. Besides academic research papers the outcomes of the group are often software systems, software prototypes, applications and scenarios. The group's works are based on the social constructivist theory that sees learning as a participation in social processes of knowledge construction. The Learning Environments research group\n\nThe Systems of Representation group conducts research into representation, culture, and knowledge in the digital dimension. The group works on research and design projects, educational activities, and publishes frequently on topics such as cultural heritage, design research, new media, synthetic reality and simulation.\n\nSound and Physical Interaction (SOPI), a relatively new research group focusses on sound and its emerging role in designing new ways of interactions between humans through digital environments. The group's mission is to investigate and integrate innovative research activities in sound design and physical interaction practices on various levels to advance their roles and impact in the future of media and interactive art.\n\nIn the thematic research groups, researchers and doctoral students often do art and design experiments related to interaction design, video game design, sonic interaction design, information visualization, digital visual art and sonic art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857551", "title": "Timeline of sociology", "text": "Timeline of sociology\n\nThis is a timeline of sociology. Each entry lists important works published during that decade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857553", "title": "Riverton, Western Australia", "text": "Riverton, Western Australia\n\nRiverton is a suburb of Perth in Western Australia.\n\nRiverton is situated about from Perth. The Canning River makes some of its north eastern boundary. It is part of the City of Canning, situated south east of the Swan River. The main roads that pass through Riverton are Leach Highway, High Road and Vahland Avenue.\n\nThe suburb began by a subdivision in 1917. It was referred to locally as Riverton Bridge in 1937 due to the old timber Riverton Bridge that crosses the Canning River to the suburb, and to distinguish it from the South Australian suburb of Riverton.\n\nRiverton has its local library with recreational facilities known as the Riverton Leisureplex. There is Stockland Riverton shopping centre, often referred to by its former name of Riverton Forum, which provides locals with everyday essentials.\n\nThere are two primary schools; Riverton Primary School and Queen of Apostles Primary School. The suburb has no secondary schools.\n\nAdenia Road Park forms part of the Canning River Regional Park. It includes the Canning River, Adenia Park Lagoon, natural bush walk paths, dog exercise area, bike path, lookouts and a playground. It links between the Canning River Regional Park in Ferndale and the parkland beside Riverton Bridge.\n\nClune Park is an area located in Riverton, managed by the City of Canning. In 1928, the Christian Brothers purchased 62.4 hectares (160 acres) of land just east of the Riverton Bridge naming it Clune Park. Clune Park is named after the Catholic Archbishop Patrick Clune.\n\nRiverton Primary School\n\nThe area is well served by a good quality primrary school. It has a large oval for sports activity which is becoming a rarity in suburban Perth.\n"}
{"id": "1857560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857560", "title": "Musikalisches Würfelspiel", "text": "Musikalisches Würfelspiel\n\nA (German for \"musical dice game\") was a system for using dice to randomly 'generate' music from precomposed options. These 'games' were quite popular throughout Western Europe in the 18th century. Several different games were devised, some that did not require dice, but merely 'choosing a random number.'\n\nThe earliest example is Johann Philipp Kirnberger's ' (German for \"The Ever-Ready Minuet and Polonaise Composer\") (1757 [1st edition; revised 2nd 1783]). Examples by well known composers include C. P. E. Bach's ' (German for \"A method for making six bars of double counterpoint at the octave without knowing the rules\") (1758) and Maximilian Stadler's \"\" (French for \"A table for composing minuets and trios to infinity, by playing with two dice\") (1780).\n\nIn the early 20th century the Kaleidacousticon System, using arbitrarily combinable playing cards, was unsuccessfully marketed in the Boston area as a parlour game.\n\nAccording to Lawrence Zbikowski, \"In truth, chance played little part in the success of the music produced by such games. Instead, what was required of the compilers...[was] a little knowledge about how to put the game together and an understanding of the formal design of waltzes, etc.\"\n\nAccording to Stephen Hedges, \"The 'galant' middle class in Europe was playing with mathematics. In this atmosphere of investigation and cataloguing, a systematic device that would seem to make it possible for anyone to write music was practically guaranteed popularity.\n\nAccording to Leonard Meyer, \"Eighteenth-century composers constructed musical dice games while nineteenth century composers did not. ... [W]hat constrained the choice of figures [in seventeenth- and eighteenth-century music] were the claims of taste, coherent expression and propriety, given the genre of work being composed, rather than the inner necessity of a gradually unfolding, underlying process [as in nineteenth century music]\". See: musical development.\n\nThe way these games work may be understood in analogy to sentence construction.\nOne rolls one die for each word and selects the word from the appropriate column according to the number. Thus if one rolls 1 2 3 1 2 3 one is given, \"The pig ran past the marsh.\" Each progression is essentially the same, there may be more or less choices for different slots, and the choices offered for each slot are slight variations rather than being entirely different.\n\nThe most well-known was published in 1792, by Mozart's publisher Nikolaus Simrock in Berlin (K. 294d or K. 516f). The game was attributed to Mozart, but this attribution has not been authenticated. The dice rolls randomly selected small sections of music, which would be patched together to create a musical piece. This game is capable of producing 11 = 45,949,729,863,572,161 different yet similar waltzes. Some measures have only one possibility no matter what the roll of the dice (measure 8/16) while other measures have a different possibility for each roll (measure 1/16).\n\nMozart's manuscript, written in 1787, consisting of 176 one-bar fragments of music, appears to be some kind of game or system for constructing music out of two-bar fragments, but contains no instructions and there is no evidence that dice were involved.\n\nThe titles of the supposed Mozart compositions are:\n\nRobert Xavier Rodríguez composed his \"Musical Dice Game\" for string orchestra based on K. 516f.\n\nThe attribution of Joseph Haydn's \"\" (Italian for \"The game of harmony, or an easy method for composing an infinite number of minuet-trios, without any knowledge of counterpoint\") has also not been authenticated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857571", "title": "Alan Walker (theologian)", "text": "Alan Walker (theologian)\n\nSir Alan Edgar Walker (4 June 191129 January 2003) was an Australian theologian, evangelist, social commentator, broadcaster and activist, and the Superintendent of Wesley Mission (formerly the Central Methodist Mission).\n\nAlan Walker was involved in the formation of the World Council of Churches in 1948.\nHe was superintendent of the Methodist (later Uniting Church in Australia) Wesley Mission, Pitt Street, Sydney, 1958–1978 and one of the founders of the National Christian Youth Convention (NCYC) in 1955 and Lifeline in 1963.\nHe was first world director of evangelism for the World Methodist Council, 1978 to 1988.\nHe was involved in founding the World Methodist Evangelism Institute (located at the United Methodist-related Candler School of Theology at Emory University) in Atlanta, 1982.\nHe was principal of the Pacific College of Evangelism, now the Alan Walker College of Evangelism, in Sydney, 1989-1995. Following the closure of the Alan Walker College the Uniting Theological College in Sydney has been home to the Alan Walker Lectureship in Mission and Evangelism.\n\nSir Alan Walker launched Lifeline in Sydney, Australia in 1963 after a call from a distressed man who three days later took his own life. Walker launched a crisis line which initially operated out of the Methodist Central Mission in Sydney.\n\nLifeline Sydney was two years in planning and preparation, with 150 people attending a nine-month training course to work at the Centre. A century old, dilapidated building owned by the Mission, on the fringes of downtown Sydney was renovated for the purposes of this new support centre. A staff of full-time employees was appointed to direct the work of these new telephone crisis support workers. The Director General of Post and Telephone Services authorised that this crisis support service should be listed on the Emergency Page of the Telephone Directory and the phones were installed.\n\nMarch 1963 saw the opening of the first official Lifeline Centre. The initiative was well received with over 100 calls for help being answered on the first day. In its 50th year, Lifeline had over 11,000 volunteers and spoke to more than 500,000 people in crisis annually.(Lifeline Australia Annual Report 2011/12) \n\n\nWalker was born in Sydney, New South Wales on 4 June 1911 to the RevD Alfred Edgar Walker (1877—1966) and Violet Louisa Walker (née Lavis) (1881—1971). He was married to Winifred Walker (later Lady Walker) (1916–2006) and they had four children, Lynette Sue, Rev Bruce Walker, David Walker and Rev Christopher Walker. He died in 2003, at an aged care center on Sydney's North Shore, aged 91.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857574", "title": "Polly and Molly", "text": "Polly and Molly\n\nPolly and Molly (born 1997), two ewes, were the first mammals to have been successfully cloned from an adult somatic cell and to be transgenic animals at the same time. This is not to be confused with Dolly the Sheep, the first animal to be successfully cloned from an adult somatic cell where there wasn’t modification carried out on the adult donor nucleus. Polly and Molly, like Dolly the Sheep, were cloned at the Roslin Institute in Edinburgh, Scotland.\n\nThe creation of Polly and Molly built on the somatic nuclear transfer experiments that led to the cloning of Dolly the Sheep. The crucial difference was that in creating Polly and Molly, scientists used cells into which a new gene had been inserted. The gene chosen was a therapeutic protein to demonstrate the potential of such recombinant DNA technology combined with animal cloning. This could hopefully be used to produce pharmacological and therapeutic proteins to treat human diseases. The protein in question was the human blood clotting factor IX. Another difference from Dolly the Sheep was the source cell type of the nucleus that was transferred.\n\nPrior to the production of Polly and Molly, the only demonstrated way to make a transgenic animal was by microinjection of DNA into the pronuclei of fertilized oocytes (eggs). However, only a small proportion of the animals will integrate the injected DNA into their genome. In the rare cases that they do integrate this new genetic information, the pattern of expression of the injected transgene's protein due to the random integration is very variable. As the aim of such research is to produce an animal that expresses a particular protein in high levels in, for example, its milk, microinjection is a very costly procedure that does not usually produce the desired animal.\n\nIn mice, there is an additional option for genetic transfer that is not available in other animals. Embryonic stem cells provide a means to transfer new DNA into the germline. They also allow precise genetic modifications by gene targeting. Modified embryonic stem cells can be selected in vitro before the experiment moves on further for the production of an animal. Embryonic stem cells capable of contributing to the germline of livestock species such as sheep have not been isolated.\n\nThe production of Dolly the Sheep and also Megan and Morag, the two sheep that led to the production of Dolly, demonstrated that viable sheep can be produced by nuclear transfer from a variety of somatic cell types which have been cultured in vitro. Polly and Molly represented the further step in which somatic cells were cultured in vitro, just as in the case with the previous sheep. However, in this case they were transfected with foreign DNA, and the transfected cells which stably integrated this new piece of genetic information were selected. The nuclei of these somatic cells was then transferred into an empty oocyte, as in the procedure of nuclear transfer, and this was used to produce several transgenic animals. A cell type PDFF was used. PDFF5 would produce male animals and were not transduced. Cell type PDFF2 produced female animals and were transduced. Of the gestations that occurred, three PDFF2 animals were born, two of which survived birth, 7LL8 and 7LL12. These animals were transfected but contained a marker gene \"not\" the cloned gene of interest. These were named \"Holly\" and \"Olly\". Two more subsets of female-producing PDFF2 cells, PDFF2-12 and PDFF2-13, also produced animals which had the cell of interest together with the marker. Of these lambs, 7LL12, 7LL15, and 7LL13 were born alive and healthy. Two of these were named Polly and Molly.\n\nThe transgene that was inserted in the donor somatic cells was designed to express the human clotting factor IX protein in the milk of sheep. This protein plays an essential role in blood coagulation, and deficiency leads to the disease haemophilia B of which treatment requires intravenous infusion of factor IX. The production of this protein in livestock milk, a process known as pharming, would provide a source of this therapeutic protein that would reduce the cost and also would be free of potential infectious risk associated with the current source of this protein (human blood).\n"}
{"id": "1857581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857581", "title": "Narcisa de Jesús", "text": "Narcisa de Jesús\n\nNarcisa de Jesús Martillo Morán (29 October 1832 – 8 December 1869) was an Ecuadorian Catholic saint. Martillo was known for her charitable giving and strict devotion to Jesus Christ while becoming somewhat of a hermit dedicated to discerning his will. The death of her parents prompted her to relocate in order to work as a seamstress while doubling as a catechist and educator to some of her siblings who needed caring. But her devotion to God was strong and it led her to live amongst the Dominican religious in Peru where she spent time before her death.\n\nHer cause for sainthood commenced on 27 September 1975, under Pope Paul VI, and she became titled as a Servant of God; while the confirmation of her life of heroic virtue allowed for Pope John Paul II to name her as Venerable on 23 October 1987. Martillo was beatified on 25 October 1992, after the approval of a 1967 miracle, while the confirmation of a 1992 miracle allowed for Pope Benedict XVI to canonise her on 12 October 2008 in Saint Peter's Square.\n\nNarcisa de Jesús Martillo Morán was born on 29 October 1832 in the small village of San José in Nobol in Ecuador as the sixth of nine children born to Pedro Martillo and Josefina Morán who were landowners. Her father was a great worker to the point that he amassed considerable wealth; he had a devotion to Blessed Mariana de Jesús and Saint Jacinto of Poland.\n\nHer mother died in 1838 and she took up much of the domestic chores as a result of this while an elder sister and teacher taught her to read and write as well as to sing and use the guitar; she also learned how to sew and cook. The girl also turned a small room in her house as a domestic chapel. Martillo received her Confirmation on 16 September 1839. Martillo frequented a small wood near her home for contemplation in solitude while the guava tree near which she went to is now a large pilgrimage destination. The girl also chose the then-Blessed Mariana de Jesús as her patron with whom she identified and strived to imitate in her own life. Martillo was known for being sweet and thoughtful with a peaceful and generous disposition; she was obedient to those around her and was well-known and loved in her village. Martillo was blonde with bright blue eyes and was strong and agile; she was also tall.\n\nThe death of her father in January 1852 prompted her to relocate to Guayaquil where she lived with prominent nobles and it was here that she began her mission of helping the poor and the sick and caring for abandoned children. It was also here that she took a job as a seamstress in order to fund her mission as well as supporting her eight brothers and sisters. But she soon moved to Cuenca for some months where she went from home to home and lived with whoever would take her in including Mercedes de Jesús Molina to allow herself greater time for silent contemplation and penance. In 1865 her spiritual director fell ill and died in 1868 which was at the time the local bishop invited her to live with the Carmelites even though she had refused the offer.\n\nIn June 1868 she relocated to Lima in Peru at the advice of her new Franciscan spiritual director Pedro Gual where she lived in the Dominican convent at Patrocinio despite not being a nun. It was here that she followed a demanding schedule of eight hours of reflection which was offered in silence and solitude. In addition she devoted four hours of the night to various forms of mortification which included flagellation and the wearing of a crown of thorns. In terms of nourishment she fasted on bread and water alone and took the Eucharist as her sole form of sustenance while was sometimes seen in an ecstatic state.\n\nIn late September 1869 she developed high fevers for which medical remedies could do little and she died as a result before midnight on 8 December 1869; upon her death a nun reported a pleasant and sweet odor filling the room that Martillo had died in. She died upon the opening of the First Vatican Council. Her remains were deemed to be incorrupt in 1955 upon exhumation and were transferred from Peru back to her homeland of Ecuador until 1972 when moved to her village of Nobol. On 22 August 1998 a shrine in her honor was dedicated in Nobol where her remains now rest.\n\nUpon her death the cities that she had dwelt in came to revere and acclaim her as a saint while the Dominican nuns she had lived with preserved her remains at their Peru convent. The cause for her canonization later commenced with the beginning of the informative process tasked with collecting documentation from 26 September 1961 until the process was closed on 10 July 1962 at which stage her writings received theological approval on 8 July 1965. The officials in charge of the cause sent a large Positio dossier to Rome to the Congregation for Rites for investigation before historians approved the cause on 8 May 1974. The formal introduction to the cause came under Pope Paul VI on 27 September 1975 and she became titled as a Servant of God as a result. Theologians met to discuss the cause on 24 July 1984 but did not come up with a clear consensus so met again on 20 December 1984 where the group approved the cause. The members of the Congregation for the Causes of Saints approved the cause as well on 16 June 1987. Martillo became titled as Venerable on 23 October 1987 after Pope John Paul II acknowledged the fact that she had lived a model life of heroic virtue.\n\nOne miracle was required for her to be beatified and it had to be a healing that science and medicine could not explain. One such case arose and was investigated in a diocesan tribunal before the findings were submitted to the competent officials in Rome for further investigation. The C.C.S. validated this process on 30 June 1984 while a panel of medical experts approved the miraculous nature of this healing on 27 June 1991. Theologians approved it as well on 20 December 1991 after confirming the miracle came as a result of Martillo's intercession while the C.C.S. approved the findings of both bodies on 18 February 1992. John Paul II approved this miracle on 7 March 1992 and beatified her in Saint Peter's Square on 25 October 1992.\n\nThe second and final miracle needed for full sainthood was investigated in the diocese of its origin before it received C.C.S. validation on 4 October 2002 upon all documents being submitted to them in Rome. The medical experts approved this miracle on 18 January 2006 as did the theologians on 4 April 2006 and the C.C.S. on 19 December 2006. Pope Benedict XVI approved this miracle on 1 June 2007 and formalized the date at a gathering of cardinals on 1 March 2008; Benedict XVI canonized Martillo on 12 October 2008.\n\nThe miracle that led to her beatification was the healing of Juan Pesántez Peñaranda who was single and working in banana plantations in Pasaje in El Oro. He was working when a banana stalk struck him in the head and caused several tumors to appear which repeated surgeries in 1967 could not cure. He was just over 20 at the time and didn't believe in miracles. He was at the Luis Vernanza Hospital when he met a policeman who suggested he write \"Narcisita\" on a piece of paper. He was skeptical that this would bring results but did this and had a dream of her that night which also caused him to be cured of his tumors.\n\nThe miracle that led to her sainthood was the healing of Edelmina Arellano who was cured from a congenital defect in 1992. Edelmina was born without genital organs and at the age of seven was cured after her mother took her to the shrine dedicated to the then-Blessed and appealed for her intercession. It was mere hours later that the child had an appointment with her doctor who testified that the girl was normal like all other children with no defects apparent whatsoever.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857587", "title": "R102 (South Africa)", "text": "R102 (South Africa)\n\nThe R102 is a Regional Route in South Africa. It is the route designation for all old sections of the N2, thus it is a discontinuous road that resumes in areas where a new N2 has been constructed.\n\nIn the Cape Town area, the R102 starts in the Central Business District, through Bellville, then onwards to Somerset West where it merges with the existing N2. At Mossel Bay it divides to the east again, passing through all the towns between there and George. Near Nature's Valley east of Plettenberg Bay it once again splits off, traversing the various Tsitsikamma gorges such as the Bloukrans Pass and then rejoining the N2 east of the Bloukrans Bridge. Farther east, in the Eastern Cape, it passes through the towns of Humansdorp and Jeffreys Bay before crossing the Gamtoos River and the Van Stadens River on its way to Port Elizabeth, before merging with the N2 at Coega.\n\nThe R102 separates from the N2 in Port Shepstone and passes through the South Coast towns of Anerley, Umzumbe and Hibberdene, before heading inland and passing through the Mnamfu area. It then turns back towards the coast and passes through Pennington, Park Rynie, Scottburgh and Umkomaas before entering the greater Durban area at Kingsburgh. The route then passes through Amanzimtoti, then passes through the industrial suburbs of Prospecton, Mobeni and Congella before entering Durban's Central Business District from the south.\n\nNorth of Durban, the route bypasses KwaMashu and Phoenix, then passes through Verulam and Tongaat before heading towards Stanger (now KwaDukuza). After Stanger, the route heads through Darnall, Mandini and Gingindlovu, passes close to Mtunzini, before heading to Empangeni. A few kilometres north of Empangeni, the route merges with the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857590", "title": "R103 (South Africa)", "text": "R103 (South Africa)\n\nThe R103 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Alberton (south of Johannesburg, Gauteng) with Pietermaritzburg in KwaZulu-Natal via Heidelberg and Harrismith. Prior to the construction of the N3 freeway, the R103 was the main road between Johannesburg and Durban.\n\nIt basically includes all roads that were previously part of the N3 as well as most roads that are following the N3. In areas where the R103 is not its own road, it is cosigned with the N3.\n\nIts southern terminus begins as a junction with the M13 Highway in Hillcrest, KwaZulu-Natal (in the Outer West Durban Area). The R103 begins as the Old Main Road and leaves Hillcrest in a roughly north-west direction and enters Cato Ridge from the east. In Cato Ridge, the road crosses the N3 at the 53 exit and then follows the south side of the N3 before recrossing the freeway again at Camperdown. It follows the N3 towards the outskirts of Pietermaritzburg crisscrossing the freeway several times. It enters Scottsville, Pietermaritzburg from the south-east where at a T-junction it co-signs with the R56 and heads north through the suburb. The R56 breaks of to the east and the R103 leaves Scottsville crossing the Msunduzi River and heading north-west into the Pietermaritzburg CBD as its main road. Leaving the CBD, it continues until around the suburb of Athlone. The road resumes following the N3 in a north-westerly direction passing through Hilton before reaching the outskirts of Howick. Crossing under the N3 it enters the suburbs of Howick and circles the town as an easterly ring road before reaching the N3 Junction 103 in the north close to the Midmar Dam. Leaving the N3, it heads in a north-westerly direction passing through Lions River, Ligetton West and Zenzani before turning north outside the town of Nottingham Road and heads towards the southern end of the town of Mooi River.\n\nLeaving Mooi River, the road heads north-east then after a short distance heads north-west eventually crossing the Boesmans River and enter Estcourt from the east. It heads north through Estcourt as its main road before leaving the town north-west. It then passes through Frere crossing the Bloukrans River before intersecting the R74 at a t-junction.\n\nCo-signed with R74 it heads north-east and enters Colenso from the south where its splits from the R74 which heads east. Bypassing the town to the west it crosses the Tugela River heading north-west. Passing through Roosboom it then turns north-east and enters the outskirts of Ladysmith where it interchanges with N11 before bypassing the town to its west. The R103 turns west, just south of the Windsor Dam and continues until it joins N3 at the Tugela Toll Plaza. Co-signed with the N3 it heads north-west where it passes through Van Reenen and leaves Kwazulu-Natal and enters the Free State.\n\nLeaving Van Reenen, it heads west still co-signed with the N3 before heading north-west when crossing the Wilge River. It enters the outskirts of Harrismith from the south where it interchanges with the eastern terminus of the N5 National Route. It heads north as an eastern bypass of the town. It leaves Harrismith in a north-westerly direction before entering Warden from the south after a long distance (45km). The N3/R103 bypasses to the town's west leaving it northwards and after a short distance the two roads split again and the R103 becomes its own road, heading in a north-easterly direction to meet the R34 west of Vrede. It now heads north-west, co-signed with the R34 for a short distance (15km) before the R34 becomes its own road westwards. Continuing north-west, the R103 passes Cornelia to its east before entering Villiers from the south where it co-signs with the N3 at its intersection with the R26, Just north of the N3 Villiers Toll Plaza.\n\nContinuing north-west past the town of Villiers, as the N3, it crosses the Vaal River into the Mpumalanga province. At junction 5, it interchanges with the R54/R51 and continues north-west. At junction 28, the interchange leads to Grootvlei in the east, but the N3/R103 continues in a northerly direction where it crosses into the Gauteng province at the Suikerbosrant River, where another tollgate is located (De Hoek Toll Plaza).\n\nContinuing north it crosses the R23 before bypassing Heidelberg to the east. North of Heidelberg at junction 70, the freeway meets the R23 again. At this off-ramp, the R103 leaves the N3 freeway and co-signs briefly with the R23 eastwards up to the next junction, where the R103 becomes its own road and begins to follow the N3 north-west as the Old Heidelberg-Alberton Road, crossing the R550 soon after. Near Vosloorus, it interchanges with the M35 Road (Germiston-Heidelberg Road) and M43/R21 Road (Barry Marais Road) and in Roodekop, the M53. The R103 briefly changes direction at a t-junction in Roodekop, south of Wadeville, Germiston, where it becomes part of the Nederveen Highway and is cosigned with the R554 westwards towards Alberton Central. At the N3 Highway crossing, the Nederveen Highway changes its name to Heidelberg Road. At the Swartkoppies Road junction, the R554 becomes the road to the left and the R103 becomes the road to the right (Voortrekker Street) towards the Alberton Central Business District and Johannesburg. At the junction with the N12 Southern Bypass (Johannesburg Ring Road) just after Alberton Central, The R103 ends and the road continuing northwards to Johannesburg Central is designated as the M31 Road of Johannesburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857592", "title": "R104 (South Africa)", "text": "R104 (South Africa)\n\nThe R104 is a regional route in South Africa that connects Pretoria with Middelburg in Mpumalanga via Bronkhorstspruit and Witbank. It also connects Pretoria with Rustenburg in the North West via Hartbeespoort & Mooinooi. For its length, it is an alternative route to the N4 Platinum Highway, with Pretoria as its centre.\n\nThe R104 is also made up of a road in Nelspruit (Mbombela) which was previously part of the N4 Route. As the N4 now bypasses the central part of the city to the north, the old short road through Nelspruit central (Samora Machel Drive) is now designated as the R104.\n\nThe R104 route begins just west of Wonderfontein in Mpumalanga (east of Middelburg), at an intersection with the N4 National Route (Maputo Corridor) (Pretoria-Maputo Highway). It goes west for about 50 km before reaching Middelburg. It is joined by the N11 from the south just before the Eastdene suburb and by the R555 from the north-east just after the same suburb and they are one road passing through Middelburg Central westwards, meeting the northern terminus of the R35 Road just after. At Walter Sisulu Street, the N11 national route becomes the section of Walter Sisulu Street going north towards Marble Hall and the R555 becomes the section of that street going south-west towards Witbank (eMalahleni). The R104 remains co-signed with the R555, meeting the northern terminus of the R575 Road.\n\nThe R104 and the R555 enter eMalahleni. They continue as Voortrekker Street up to the Witbank Long Distance Taxi Rank, where they meet the R544 coming from Verena. As the R555 continues south to cross the N4 Highway and makes its way to Springs via Ogies, the R104 stays in close proximity to the N4 Highway, becoming the road westwards just before the R555 and N4 junction (Diederichs Street). It remains north of the N4 Highway up to the Schoongezicht suburb, where it crosses to the south of the N4 Highway as Kaldine Drive, turns west and bypasses Witbank Primary School as Collins Avenue. It bypasses KwaGuqa (where it makes a right and left turn) and remains south of the N4 Highway up to Balmoral, at an intersection with the R545, where it goes north of the N4 Highway. It crosses into Gauteng Province just after.\n\nInto Gauteng, the R104 remains north of and parallel to the N4 Highway and remains one road, through Bronkhorstspruit (where it meets the R25 Route), bypassing Mamelodi, to Pretoria Central. In Pretoria, after flying-over the N1 & N4 Platinum Route co-signage as Pretoria Street, it continues as Church Street through the Central Business District, going around Church Square & intersecting with the R101 Route. At Pretoria West, the R104 route follows and is parallel to the M4 Magalies Toll Route (which was previously part of the N4 Platinum Route) up to its end by the Pelindaba Toll Plaza just east of Hartbeespoort.\n\nSouth of Flora Park, the R101 meets the R511 Road at a 4-way junction and begins cosigning with it north-west from this junction, flying over the M4 Magalies Toll Route's Pelindaba Toll Plaza. Just after Flora Park, the R104/R511 co-signage crosses into Hartbeespoort in the North-West Province as Beethoven Street.\n\nIn Hartbeespoort, at the junction with Bach Street next to the Sediba Shopping Plaza in the suburb of Melodie, the R511 becomes the road northwards towards Brits, leaving the R104 as the west-north-westerly road. After this junction, the R104 becomes Scott Street and makes up the northern border of the suburb of Schoemansville. West of Schoemansville, the R104 crosses the point where the Crocodile River enters the Hartbeespoort Dam, before reaching a 4-way junction with the R512 Route.\n\nAt this intersection, the R104 meets the R512 from Broederstroom and the 2 routes are cosigned westwards from this junction, passing the Elephant Sanctuary of Hartbeespoort. After a few kilometres, the R512 turns northwards towards Brits, leaving the R104 as the road heading west towards Mooinooi.\n\nFrom Hartbeespoort, going passed Mooinooi, the R104 is parallel to and south of the N4 Highway (which is now called the Platinum Highway). At Kroondal (right before Rustenburg), The R104 goes north of the Platinum Highway and makes a direct line for Rustenburg. It meets the northern end of the R24 Road from Magaliesburg, Krugersdorp and Johannesburg, before becoming the main route through Rustenburg Central. After the Tlhabane Suburb, the R104 ends where it meets the N4 (eastbound only).\n\nAs there is a northern bypass which was built at Nelspruit (Mbombela) (continuous highway, off-ramp junctions only) in the Mpumalanga Province for the N4 National Route, the old road through Nelspruit Central has been given to the R104 route. For that short segment through Mbombela (Samora Machel Drive; 17 Kilometres), the road is labelled as the R104.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857593", "title": "Lenny Beckett", "text": "Lenny Beckett\n\nLenny Beckett is an Australian rugby league and rugby union footballer. He is a member of the Brumbies organisation, noted for his strong defensive game. After making his first two appearances for the Brumbies off the bench in the 2003 semi-final against the Blues at Eden Park, and as a replacement in the 2004 championship winning side Lenny Beckett firstly established himself in the match-day 22 and then the starting XV in 2005.\n\nWhile attending Westfields Sports High, Beckett played for the Australian Schoolboys rugby league team in 1997 and 1998.\n\nLenny has put in a series of solid performances that have seen him start the last 7 matches.\nPrior to his breakthrough season in 2005, Lenny had been a performer for the Brumby Runners and his club Sydney University. Before joining the Brumbies, Lenny played rugby league in the NRL for the Northern Eagles and Newcastle Knights and is a former Australian Schoolboys rugby league team representative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857600", "title": "R300 (South Africa)", "text": "R300 (South Africa)\n\nThe R300 or Kuils River Freeway (also Cape Flats Freeway) is a Regional Route in Cape Town, South Africa that connects Mitchells Plain with the N2, Kuils River, and the N1 at Bellville. The R300 is a freeway for its entire length; it forms part of the proposed Peninsula Expressway.\n\nDriving on the R300 can sometimes be dangerous due to stone-throwing and pedestrians illegally crossing the road. Extreme care should be taken, although the road need not necessarily be avoided.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857605", "title": "R302 (South Africa)", "text": "R302 (South Africa)\n\nThe R302 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Bellville with Malmesbury. It covers a distance of in a north-south direction.\n\nThe route begins at an intersection with the R102 (Voortrekker Road) in Bellville. It runs along Durban Road, which soon splits into two one-way roads, the northbound road becoming Willie van Schoor Avenue while the southbound remains Durban Road. It crosses the N1 freeway at exit 23. The two directions rejoin at Tyger Valley and continue to Durbanville as Durbanville Avenue and then Main Road. In central Durbanville the route turns right and runs along Wellington Road before leaving the built-up area. At Fisantekraal it passes the western end of the R312, and at Klipheuwel it crosses and briefly overlaps the R304. It enters Malmesbury along Voortrekker Road, passing the eastern end of the R315 (Bokomo Road) before ending at the R45 (Piet Retief Street).\n\n"}
{"id": "1857609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857609", "title": "R303 (South Africa)", "text": "R303 (South Africa)\n\nThe R303 is a regional route in South Africa that connects Citrusdal with Ceres via the Koue Bokkeveld. \n\nIts northern beginning is at the N7 outside Citrusdal. It initially runs east, and passes through that town, before climbing over the Middelberg Pass and the Buffelshoek Pass. From there, it runs southward through the Koue Bokkeveld to the Gydo Pass, where it descends to Prince Alfred Hamlet and Ceres, where it ends at an intersection with the R46.\n"}
{"id": "1857612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857612", "title": "Kolbeinsey", "text": "Kolbeinsey\n\nKolbeinsey (or, Kolbeinn's Isle, Seagull Rock, Mevenklint, Mevenklip, and Meeuw Steen) is a small islet off the northern coast of Iceland, north-northwest of the island of Grímsey. The island is the northernmost point of Iceland and lies north of the Arctic Circle. A basalt landform, devoid of vegetation, it is subject to rapid wave erosion and is expected to disappear in the near future, probably around the year 2020, based upon current rates of erosion.\n\nThe original size of the island is unknown. When it was first measured in 1616, its size was from north to south and east to west. By 1903, it had already diminished to half that size. In August 1985, the size was given as across. At the beginning of 2001, Kolbeinsey had reduced to an area of a mere , which would correspond to the size of a circle of about in diameter. The island has a maximum elevation of .\n\nA helicopter landing site was constructed on the island in 1989 but efforts to strengthen the island have subsided in part because of agreements with Denmark over limits. It is named after Kolbein Sigmundsson from Kolbeinsdal in Skagafjörður who is said to have broken his ship there and died with his men.\n\nA submarine eruption was reported in 1999 near the Kolbeinsey Ridge northwest of Grímsey. Kolbeinsey is the only subaerial expression of this portion of the Mid-Atlantic Ridge. It formed during the late-Pleistocene or Holocene. Dredged glass shards indicate submarine eruptive activity during the late-Pleistocene until at least 11,800 radiocarbon years ago.\n\nOn 9 March 2006, it was stated that helicopters were no longer able to land on Kolbeinsey. It had been found that almost a half of the helipad which was laid with concrete in 1989 had been destroyed when a large piece of rock separated from the rest of the island. Kolbeinsey may disappear completely much sooner than originally expected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857613", "title": "Gray v. Sanders", "text": "Gray v. Sanders\n\nGray v. Sanders, 372 U.S. 368 (1963), was a Supreme Court of the United States case dealing with equal representation in regard to the American election system and formulated the famous \"one person, one vote\" standard for legislative districting.\n\nJames Sanders, a voter in Fulton County, Georgia, brought a lawsuit which challenged the legality of the County Unit System. James H. Gray, the chairman of the State Executive Committee of the Democratic Party, was one of the named defendants as the suit focused on the Democratic party primary elections which usually determined the selection of Georgia officeholders.\n\nSanders argued that the County Unit System gave unequal and preferential voting power to smaller counties. Rural counties which accounted for one-third of Georgia's population, accounted for a majority of County Unit votes. Fulton County had 14.11% of Georgia's population at that time, but only 1.46% (6 unit votes) of the 410 Unit Votes. Echols County, Georgia, the smallest county in Georgia at the time, had 1,876 people or .05% of the state's population and .48% (1 unit vote) of the unit system. The system managed to give votes to Fulton County at a proportion of one-tenth the county population while giving Echols County a vote which was 10 times the population of the county. The Supreme Court granted certiorari in this case despite having refused to hear previous challenges to the Unit System.\n\nBy a vote of 8 to 1, the court struck down the County Unit System. Justice William O. Douglas wrote the majority opinion and said \"The concept of political equality...can mean only one thing—one person, one vote\". The court found that the separation of voters in the same election into different classes was a violation of the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection. Justice John Marshall Harlan II dissented, suggesting the case be sent back for retrial, which would have investigated the constitutional requirements for legislative districts.\n\nGeorgia had the option of modifying the County Unit System to make it more equal, but instead the state decided to move to using the popular vote in primary elections.\n\n\nToplak, Jurij. Gray v. Sanders : 372 U.S. 368 (1963). In: Schultz, David W (Ed.). Encyclopedia of the Supreme Court. New York: Facts on file, 2005, pp. 188–189.\n"}
{"id": "1857615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857615", "title": "R304 (South Africa)", "text": "R304 (South Africa)\n\nThe R304 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Stellenbosch with Atlantis.\n\nIts north-western origin is a junction with the R307 at Atlantis. The NNW/SSE R307 becomes the R304, and the R307 continues as the south-westerly offshoot. After 12 kilometres, the road reaches a t-junction with an easterly route. The R304 is signed as this route, with the straight road signed as Cape Town's M19 thereafter. The now easterly R304 crosses the N7 to pass through the village of Philadelphia. It continues east to meet the R302. It is co-signed briefly heading north. After leaving the R302, the route heads south-east. It crosses the R312 and the N1. It next meets the R101 at a staggered junction. The route ends in Stellenbosch at the R44.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857620", "title": "R305 (South Africa)", "text": "R305 (South Africa)\n\nThe R305 is a Regional Route in South Africa that runs from coastal Stilbaai in the south north to the N2: approximately 10km from Riversdale and 25km from Albertinia.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857621", "title": "The Good War", "text": "The Good War\n\n\"The Good War\": An Oral History of World War II (1984) is an oral history of World War II compiled by Studs Terkel. The work received the 1985 Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction.\n\n\"\"The Good War\"\" consists of a series of interviews with various men and women from across the globe who directly experienced the events leading up to, including, and following the Second World War.\n\nThe book's chapters and subchapters, with the names and topics of the subjects involved, are as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The Good War\" met with positive reviews upon its publication in the fall of 1984. Loudon Wainwright, writing for \"The New York Times\", stated in a review published on October 7, 1984, \"Ten, 20, 30 years from now the best witnesses to World War II will be largely gone. But Presidents honoring them will surely have access to a copy of Studs Terkel's most recent exercise in memory harvesting, \"The Good War.\" It is hard to see how any reader now or then can fail to benefit from its 600 pages.\" Gaddis Smith, in a capsule review in the journal \"Foreign Affairs\", claimed, \"This book sustains Studs Terkel's reputation as the nation's foremost practitioner of the difficult (although seemingly simple) art of oral history.\" Kirkus Reviews assessment of the book, dated October 11, 1984, included the following: \"In World War II memories, Terkel has found a great, untold story--with fore-shadowings of Vietnam and aftershocks of atomic warfare.\"\n\nIn 1985, \"The Good War: An Oral History of World War Two\" won the Pulitzer Prize for General Non-Fiction.\n\nMax Brooks has said that \"The Good War\" inspired him to write his novel \"World War Z\". Brooks stated: \"It's an oral history of World War II I read when I was a teenager, and it's sat with me ever since. When I sat down to write \"World War Z\", I wanted it to be in the vein of an oral history.\"\n"}
{"id": "1857622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857622", "title": "R306 (South Africa)", "text": "R306 (South Africa)\n\nThe R306 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N9 between Willowmore and Aberdeen with the R61 between Beaufort West and Graaff-Reinet.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857624", "title": "R307 (South Africa)", "text": "R307 (South Africa)\n\nThe R307 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the R27 north of Melkbosstrand with the R45 south-west of Moorreesburg.\n\nFrom its southern origin at the R27, it heads north-east to Atlantis. Here it meets a north-north-west / south-south-east road at a t-junction. The south-south-east section is signed as the R304, but the north-north-westerly route continues as the R307. This road passes through Mamre and then receives the R315 from the east. The two roads are co-signed and continue to Darling. Leaving the R315 again diverges, heading west, whereas the R307 now heads north-east. It ends at the R45.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857627", "title": "Grip Inc.", "text": "Grip Inc.\n\nGrip Inc. was a groove metal band and side project of drummer Dave Lombardo. The band was formed in 1993, and was signed to SPV Records. \n\nFollowing the birth of his first child in 1993, Lombardo formed Grip Inc. with Voodoocult guitarist Waldemar Sorychta. The pair recruited bassist Jason Viebrooks and vocalist Gus Chambers to complete the line-up, releasing their debut record \"Power of Inner Strength\" (1995), distributed via Metal Blade Records.\n\nPrior to the album's release Lombardo described leaving Slayer as a career low, because he did not know what type of music to play. \"AllMusic\" reviewer Vincent Jeffries singled out Lombardo for praise on the album, remarking that Slayer fans \"will enjoy the drummer's double bass work and overall aggression throughout the disc.\" Sorychta said critics and music fans always spot mistakes in their music, because of Lombardo's popularity with Slayer – expecting the band to sound like Slayer and complain. However, when Lombardo uses the double bass drum, Sorychta said people complain \"now Grip Inc. sound exactly like Slayer.\"\n\nThe band released \"Nemesis\" in 1997. Jeffries praised Lombardo's \"crushing drum work\" which takes center stage on the album. Bassist Viebrooks left the band and was replaced by Stuart Carruthers in 1997. With a new bassist, the band released \"Solidify\" in 1999, which was described as a step towards \"progressive and exotic rhythms, structures, and instrumentations, while never compromising intensity\" by Jeffries.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857628", "title": "Colombian conflict", "text": "Colombian conflict\n\nThe Colombian conflict () began in the mid-1960s and it is a low-intensity asymmetric war between the government of Colombia, paramilitary groups, crime syndicates and communist guerrillas such as the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia (FARC), and the National Liberation Army (ELN), fighting each other to increase their influence in Colombian territory. Some of the most important international contributors to the Colombian conflict include multinational corporations, the United States, Cuba , Venezuela, and the drug trafficking industry.\n\nIt is historically rooted in the conflict known as \"La Violencia\", which was triggered by the 1948 assassination of populist political leader Jorge Eliécer Gaitán, and in the aftermath of the anti-communist repression (backed by the United States and others) in rural Colombia in the 1960s that led Liberal and Communist militants to re-organize into FARC.\n\nThe reasons for fighting vary from group to group. The FARC and other guerrilla movements claim to be fighting for the rights of the poor in Colombia to protect them from government violence and to provide social justice through communism. The Colombian government claims to be fighting for order and stability, and to protect the rights and interests of its citizens. The paramilitary groups claim to be reacting to perceived threats by guerrilla movements. All sides have engaged in drug trafficking and terrorism and have been criticized for numerous human rights violations.\n\nAccording to a study by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 220,000 people have died in the conflict between 1958 and 2013, most of them civilians (177,307 civilians and 40,787 fighters) and more than five million civilians were forced from their homes between 1985 – 2012, generating the world's second largest population of internally displaced persons (IDPs). 16.9% of the population in Colombia has been a direct victim of the war. 2.3 million children have been displaced from their homes, and 45,000 children killed, according to national figures cited by Unicef. In total, one in three of the 7.6 million registered victims of the conflict are children, and since 1985, 8,000 minors have disappeared. A Special Unit was created to search for persons deemed as missing within the context of and due to the armed conflict.\n\nOn 23 June 2016, the Colombian government and the FARC rebels signed a historic ceasefire deal, bringing them closer to ending more than five decades of conflict. Although the deal was rejected in the subsequent October 2016 Colombian peace agreement referendum, the same month, President of Colombia Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to bring the country's more than 50-year-long civil war to an end. A revised peace deal was signed the following month and submitted to Congress for approval. The House of Representatives unanimously approved the plan on November 30, a day after the Senate also gave its backing. As of 2020, fighting had resumed.\n\nThe armed conflict in Colombia emerged due to a combination of economic, political and social factors in the country. Various organizations and scholars that have studied the conflict trace it back to a long history of political violence, a high social and economic inequality, the lack of strong state capable of providing for its citizens (especially in the rural and remote areas of the country), conflict of political ideologies (mainly capitalist-right wing groups represented by the government against communist left wings groups represented by the armed groups), and an unequal distribution of land, power, and wealth in the country. The precise date of the conflict's beginning is still disputed, with some scholars claiming it started in 1958 with the start of the Frente Nacional (\"National Front\") and the end of La Violencia (\"The Violence\") meanwhile others believe it was in 1964 with the creation of the FARC and the end of the National Front. Some scholars even trace it back to the 1920s, with the unequal distribution of land in the country which has been one of the main causes and disputes of the conflict throughout the years.\n\nIn the early period (1970s), guerrilla groups like the FARC, the ELN and others adopted a slogan of greater equality through communism,<nowiki> which came to be supported by many people, mostly in low-income and rural areas of the country. During these years the violence was low in intensity and occurred mainly in remote parts of the country. However, the balance of power and influence shifted in the mid-1980s when Colombia granted greater political and fiscal autonomy to local governments, strengthening the position of the </nowiki>Colombian Government in more remote regions of the country. In 1985, during peace talks between President Belisario Betancur and the FARC, the armed group co-created the left-wing Patriotic Union (UP) political party as a path to leave violence behind and eventually move into politics. However, between 1985 and 2002 right-wing paramilitaries, with the help and support from parts of the government, murdered and disappeared 4,153 members and supporters of the party, including two presidential candidates, six of 16 congressmen, 17 regional representatives and 163 councilmen. This systematic killing decimated the organization and aggravated the broader conflict.\n\nIn the 1980s the level of violence increased in many parts of the country as a result of the beginning of the drug trafficking. Trafficking had begun in the 1960s and 70s, when a group of Americans began to smuggle marijuana. Later, the American Mafia began to establish drug trafficking in Colombia in cooperation with local marijuana producers. Cocaine (and other drugs) manufactured in Colombia were historically mostly consumed in the US as well as Europe. \nOrganized crime in Colombia grew increasingly powerful in the 1970s and 80s with the introduction of massive drug trafficking to the United States from Colombia. After the Colombian Government dismantled many of the drug cartels that appeared in the country during the 1980s, left-wing guerrilla groups and rightwing paramilitary organizations resumed some of their drug-trafficking activities and resorted to extortion and kidnapping for financing, activities which led to a loss of support from the local population. These funds helped finance paramilitaries and guerrillas, allowing these organizations to buy weapons which were then sometimes used to attack military and civilian targets.\n\nDuring the presidency of Álvaro Uribe, the government applied more military pressure on the FARC and other outlawed far-left groups. After the offensive, many security indicators improved. As part of a controversial peace process, the AUC (right-wing paramilitaries) as a formal organization had ceased to function. Colombia achieved a great decrease in cocaine production, leading White House drug czar R. Gil Kerlikowske to announce that Colombia was no longer the world's biggest producer of cocaine. The United States is still the world's largest consumer of cocaine and other illegal drugs.\n\nIn February 2008, millions of Colombians demonstrated against the FARC and other outlawed groups. 26,648 FARC and ELN combatants have decided to demobilize since 2002. During these years the military forces of the Republic of Colombia were strengthened.\n\nThe Peace process in Colombia, 2012 refers to the dialogue in Havana, Cuba between the Colombian government and guerrilla of FARC-EP with the aim to find a political solution to the armed conflict. After almost four years of peace negotiations, the Colombian state and the FARC announced consensus on a 6-point plan towards peace and reconciliation. The government also began a process of assistance and reparation for victims of conflict. Recently, U.P. supporters reconstituted the political party, within the process of reconciliation. Colombia's congress approved the revised peace accord.\n\nIn February 2015, the Historical Commission on the Conflict and its Victims (Comisión Histórica del Conflicto Armado y sus Víctimas – CHCV) published its report entitled \"Contribution to an Understanding of the Armed Conflict in Colombia\". The document addresses the \"multiple reasons for the conflict, the principle factors and circumstances that made it possible and the most notable impacts on the population\", and explains Colombia's armed conflict in terms of international law.\n\nThe origin of the armed conflict in Colombia goes back to 1920 with agrarian disputes over the Sumapaz and Tequendama regions. Peasants at the time fought over ownership of coffee lands which caused the liberals and conservative parties to take sides in the conflict, worsening it.\n\nIn 1948 the assassination of populist Jorge Eliécer Gaitán radically stirred up the armed conflict. It led to the \"Bogotazo\", an urban riot killing more than 4,000 people, and subsequently to ten years of sustained rural warfare between members of Colombian Liberal Party and the Colombian Conservative Party, a period known as \"La Violencia\" (\"The Violence\"), which took the lives of more than 200,000 people throughout the countryside.\n\nAs \"La Violencia\" wound down, most self-defense and guerrilla units made up of Liberal Party supporters demobilized, but at the same time some former Liberals and active Communist groups continued operating in several rural enclaves. One of the Liberal bands was a group known as the \"Fuerzas Armadas Revolucionarias de Colombia\" (Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia), or FARC, formed by Pedro Antonio Marin in 1964. The goal of the FARC, among other things, was redistribution of land that would benefit poor peasant farmers like Marin, along with the desire to establish a communist state.\n\nAlso in 1958, an exclusively bipartisan political alternation system, known as the National Front, resulted from an agreement between the Liberal and Conservative parties. The agreement had come as a result of the two parties attempting to find a final political solution to the decade of mutual violence and unrest, remaining in effect until 1974.\n\nIn the early 1960s Colombian Army units loyal to the National Front began to attack peasant communities. This happened throughout Colombia with the Colombian army considering that these peasant communities were enclaves for bandits and Communists. It was the 1964 attack on the community of Marquetalia that motivated the later creation of FARC. Despite the infantry and police encirclement of the villages inside Marquetalia (3500 men swept through the area), Manuel Marulanda managed to escape the army cordon.\n\nUnlike the rural FARC, which had roots in the previous Liberal peasant struggles, the ELN was mostly an outgrowth of university unrest and would subsequently tend to follow a small group of charismatic leaders, including Camilo Torres Restrepo.\n\nBoth guerrilla groups remained mostly operational in remote areas of the country during the rest of the 1960s.\n\nThe Colombian government organized several short-lived counter-guerrilla campaigns in the late 1950s and early 1960s. These efforts were aided by the U.S. government and the CIA, which employed hunter-killer teams and involved U.S. personnel from the previous Philippine campaign against the Huks, and which would later participate in the subsequent Phoenix Program in the Vietnam War.\n\nBy 1974, another challenge to the state's authority and legitimacy had come from the 19th of April Movement (M-19), leading to a new phase in the conflict. The M-19 was a mostly urban guerrilla group, founded in response to an alleged electoral fraud during the final National Front election of Misael Pastrana Borrero (1970–1974) and the forced removal of former president Gustavo Rojas Pinilla.\n\nBy 1982, the perceived passivity of the FARC, together with the relative success of the government's efforts against the M-19 and the ELN, enabled the administration of the Liberal Party's Julio César Turbay Ayala (1978–82) to lift a state-of-siege decree that had been in effect, on and off, for most of the previous 30 years. Under the latest such decree, president Turbay had implemented security policies that, though of some military value against the M-19 in particular, were considered highly questionable both inside and outside Colombian circles due to numerous accusations of military human rights abuses against suspects and captured guerrillas.\n\nCitizen exhaustion due to the conflict's newfound intensity led to the election with 47% of the popular vote of president Belisario Betancur (1982–1986), a Conservative. Betancur directed peace feelers at all the insurgents, and negotiated a 1984 cease-fire with the FARC at La Uribe, Meta, after a 1982 release of many guerrillas imprisoned during the previous effort to overpower them. A truce was also arranged with the M-19. The ELN, however, rejected any negotiations and continued to rebuild through the use of extortion and threats, in particular against oil companies of European and U.S. origin.\n\nAt the same time as these developments, the growing illegal drug trade was becoming increasingly important to all participants in the Colombian conflict. Guerrillas and newly wealthy drug lords had mutually uneven relations and numerous incidents occurred between them. Eventually the kidnapping of drug cartel family members by guerrillas led to the creation in 1981 of the \"Muerte a Secuestradores\" (\"Death to Kidnappers\") death squad (MAS). The Medellín Cartel and other cartels came under pressure from the U.S. government and from critical sectors of Colombian society who supported the extradition of suspected Colombian cartel members to the U.S.. The cartels responded by bribing or murdering numerous public officials, politicians and others. Their victims included Justice Minister Rodrigo Lara Bonilla, whose assassination in 1984 led the Betancur administration to confront the drug lords directly.\n\nThe first negotiated cease-fire with the M-19 ended when the guerrillas resumed fighting in 1985. The M-19 claimed that the cease-fire had not been fully respected by official security forces, alleged that several of its members had suffered threats and assaults, and questioned the government's real willingness to implement any accords. The Betancur administration in turn criticized the M-19's actions and questioned its commitment to the peace process, while at the same time continuing to advance high-profile negotiations with the FARC. These negotiations led to the creation of the Patriotic Union (\"Unión Patriótica\") -UP-, a legal and non-clandestine political organization.\n\nOn November 6, 1985, the M-19 stormed the Colombian Palace of Justice and held the Supreme Court magistrates hostage, intending to put president Betancur on trial. The military responded with force and in the ensuing crossfire some 120 people lost their lives, including most of the guerrillas (several high-ranking operatives among them) and 12 Supreme Court Judges. Both sides blamed each other for the bloodbath, which marked the end of Betancur's peace process.\n\nMeanwhile, individual FARC members initially joined the UP leadership in representation of the guerrilla command, though most of the guerrilla's chiefs and militiamen did not demobilize nor disarm, as that was not a requirement of the process at that point in time. Tension soon significantly increased, as both sides began to accuse each other of not respecting the cease-fire.\n\nAccording to historian Daniel Pecáut, the creation of the Patriotic Union took the guerrillas' political message to a wider public outside of the traditional communist spheres of influence and led to local electoral victories in regions such as Urabá and Antioquia, with their mayoral candidates winning 23 municipalities and their congressional ones gaining 14 seats (five in the Senate, nine in the lower Chamber) in 1988. According to journalist Steven Dudley, who interviewed ex-FARC as well as former members of the UP and the Communist Party, FARC leader Jacobo Arenas insisted to his subordinates that the UP's creation did not mean that the group would lay down its arms; neither did it imply a rejection of the Seventh Conference's military strategy. Pecáut states that new recruits entered the guerrilla army and its urban militia units during this period, and that the FARC continued to carry out kidnappings and to target regional politicians for assassination.\n\nIn October 1987 Jaime Pardo Leal, who had been the UP's presidential candidate the previous year, was assassinated amid a wave of violence in which thousands of the party's members perished at the hands of death squads. According to Pecáut, the killers included members of the military and the political class who had opposed Betancur's peace process and considered the UP to be little more than a \"facade\" for the FARC, as well as drug traffickers and landowners who were also involved in the establishment of paramilitary groups.\n\nThe Virgilio Barco Vargas (1986–1990) administration, in addition to continuing to handle the difficulties of the complex negotiations with the guerrillas, also inherited a particularly chaotic confrontation against the drug lords, who were engaged in a campaign of terrorism and murder in response to government moves in favor of their extradition overseas.\n\nIn June 1987, the ceasefire between FARC and the Colombian government formally collapsed after the guerrillas attacked a military unit in the jungles of Caquetá. According to journalist Steven Dudley, FARC founder Jacobo Arenas considered the incident to be a \"natural\" part of the truce and reiterated the group's intention to continue the dialogue, but President Barco sent an ultimatum to the guerrillas and demanded that they immediately disarm or face military retaliation. Regional guerrilla and Army skirmishes created a situation where each violation of the ceasefire rendered it null in each location, until it was rendered practically nonexistent.\n\nBy 1990, at least 2,500 members of the FARC-founded Patriotic Union had been murdered, according to historian Daniel Pecáut, leading up to that year's assassination of presidential candidate Bernardo Jaramillo Ossa. The Colombian government initially blamed drug lord Pablo Escobar for the murder but journalist Steven Dudley argues that many in the UP pointed at then-Interior Minister Carlos Lemos Simmonds for publicly calling out the UP as the \"political wing of FARC\" shortly before the murder, while others claimed it was the result of an alliance between Fidel Castaño, members of the Colombian military and the DAS. Pecáut and Dudley argue that significant tensions had emerged between Jaramillo, FARC and the Communist Party due to the candidate's recent criticism of the armed struggle and their debates over the rebels' use of kidnapping, almost leading to a formal break. Jaramillo's death led to a large exodus of UP militants; in addition, by then many FARC cadres who joined the party had already returned to clandestinity, using the UP experience as an argument in favor of revolutionary war.\n\nThe M-19 and several smaller guerrilla groups were successfully incorporated into a peace process as the 1980s ended and the '90s began, which culminated in the elections for a Constituent Assembly of Colombia that would write a new constitution, which took effect in 1991.\n\nContacts with the FARC, which had irregularly continued despite the end of the ceasefire and the official 1987 break from negotiations, were temporarily cut off in 1990 under the presidency of César Gaviria Trujillo (1990–1994). The Colombian Army's assault on the FARC's \"Casa Verde\" sanctuary at La Uribe, Meta, followed by a FARC offensive that sought to undermine the deliberations of the Constitutional Assembly, began to highlight a significant break in the uneven negotiations carried over from the previous decade.\n\nBoth parties nevertheless never completely broke off some amount of political contacts for long, as some peace feelers continued to exist, leading to short rounds of conversations in both Caracas, Venezuela (1991) and Tlaxcala, Mexico (1992). Despite the signing of several documents, no concrete results were achieved when the talks ended.\n\nFARC military activity increased throughout the bulk of the 1990s as the group continued to grow in wealth from both kidnapping and drug-related activities, while drug crops rapidly spread throughout the countryside. The guerrillas protected many of the coca growers from eradication campaigns and allowed them to grow and commercialize coca in exchange for a \"tax\" either in money or in crops.\n\nIn this context, FARC had managed to recruit and train more fighters, beginning to use them in concentrated attacks in a novel and mostly unexpected way. This led to a series of high-profile raids and attacks against Colombian state bases and patrols, mostly in the southeast of Colombia but also affecting other areas.\n\nIn mid-1996, a civic protest movement made up of an estimated 200,000 coca growers from Putumayo and part of Cauca began marching against the Colombian government to reject its drug war policies, including fumigations and the declaration of special security zones in some departments. Different analysts have stressed that the movement itself fundamentally originated on its own, but at the same time, FARC heavily encouraged the marchers and actively promoted their demands both peacefully and through the threat of force.\n\nAdditionally, in 1997 and 1998, town councilmen in dozens of municipalities of the south of the country were threatened, killed, kidnapped, forced to resign or to exile themselves to department capitals by the FARC and the ELN.\n\nIn Las Delicias, Caquetá, five FARC fronts (about 400 guerrillas) recognized intelligence pitfalls in a Colombian Army base and exploited them to overrun it on August 30, 1996, killing 34 soldiers, wounding 17 and taking some 60 as prisoners. Another significant attack took place in El Billar, Caquetá on March 2, 1998, where a Colombian Army counterinsurgency battalion was patrolling, resulting in the death of 62 soldiers and the capture of some 43. Other FARC attacks against Police bases in Miraflores, Guaviare and La Uribe, Meta in August 1998 killed more than a hundred soldiers, policemen and civilians, and resulted in the capture or kidnapping of a hundred more.\n\nThese attacks, and the dozens of members of the Colombian security forces taken prisoner by the FARC, contributed to increasingly shaming the government of president Ernesto Samper Pizano (1994–1998) in the eyes of sectors of public and political opinion. He was already the target of numerous critics due to revelations of a drug-money scandal surrounding his presidential campaign. Perceptions of corruption due to similar scandals led to Colombia's decertification as a country cooperating with the United States in the war on drugs in 1995 (when the effects of the measure were temporarily waived), 1996 and 1997.\n\nThe Samper administration reacted against FARC's attacks by gradually abandoning numerous vulnerable and isolated outposts in more than 100,000 km² of the rural countryside, instead concentrating Army and Police forces in the more heavily defended strongholds available, which allowed the guerrillas to more directly mobilize through and influence events in large areas of rural territory which were left with little or no remaining local garrisons.\n\nSamper also contacted the guerrillas in order to negotiate the release of some or all of the hostages in FARC hands, which led to the temporary demilitarization of the municipality of Cartagena del Chairá, Caquetá in July 1997 and the unilateral liberation of 70 soldiers, a move which was opposed by the command of the Colombian military. Other contacts between the guerrillas and government, as well as with representatives of religious and economic sectors, continued throughout 1997 and 1998.\n\nAltogether, these events were interpreted by some Colombian and foreign analysts as a turning point in the armed confrontation, giving the FARC the upper hand in the military and political balance, making the Colombian government a target of critics from some observers who concluded that its weakness was being evidenced, perhaps even overshadowing a future guerrilla victory in the middle term. A leaked 1998 U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency (DIA) report went so far as to speculate that this could be possible within 5 years if the guerrilla's rate of operations was kept up without effective opposition. Some viewed this report as inaccurate and alarmist, claiming that it did not properly take into account many factors, such as possible actions that the Colombian state and the U.S. might take in response to the situation, nor the effects of the existence of paramilitary groups.\n\nAlso during this period, paramilitary activities increased, both legally and illegally. The creation of legal CONVIVIR self-defense and intelligence gathering groups was authorized by Congress and the Samper administration in 1994. Members of CONVIVIR groups were accused of committing numerous abuses against the civilian population by several human rights organizations. The groups were left without legal support after a 1997 decision by the Colombian Constitutional Court which restricted many of their prerogatives and demanded stricter oversight. However, in April 1997, preexisting paramilitary forces and several former CONVIVIR members were joined to create the AUC, a large paramilitary militia closely tied to drug trafficking which carried out attacks on the FARC and ELN rebel groups as well as civilians starting with the 1997 Mapiripán Massacre.\n\nThe AUC, originally present around the central/northwest part of the country, executed a series of raids into areas of guerrilla influence, targeting those that they considered as either guerrillas or their supporters. This resulted in a continuing series of massacres. After some of these operations, government prosecutors and/or human rights organizations blamed officers and members of Colombian Army and police units for either passively permitting these acts, or directly collaborating in their execution.\n\nOn August 7, 1998, Andrés Pastrana Arango was sworn in as the President of Colombia. A member of the Conservative Party, Pastrana defeated Liberal Party candidate Horacio Serpa in a run-off election marked by high voter turn-out and little political unrest. The new president's program was based on a commitment to bring about a peaceful resolution of Colombia's longstanding civil conflict and to cooperate fully with the United States to combat the trafficking of illegal drugs.\n\nIn July 1999, Colombian military forces attacked the town of Puerto Lleras, Colombia where FARC rebels were stationed. Using U.S. supplied aircraft and equipment, and backed with U.S. logistical support, Colombian government forces strafed and bombed the town for over 72 hours. In the attack, three civilians were killed, and several others were wounded as the military attacked hospitals, churches, ambulances, and residential areas. FARC rebels were forced to flee the area, and many were killed or wounded. The Colombian government claimed that this was a significant victory, while human rights groups claimed this as proof that \"anti-narcotics\" aid, was actually just military aid which was being used to fight a leftist insurgency.\n\nThe years from 2000–2006 were bloody ones in Colombia with thousands of deaths every year resulting from the ongoing war between the Colombian Armed Forces, Paramilitary groups such as the AUC and the rebel groups (mainly the FARC, ELN and also the EPL). The fighting resulted in massive internal displacement of Colombia's civilian population and thousands of civilian deaths.\n\nDuring President Uribe's first term in office (2002–2006), the security situation inside Colombia showed some measure of improvement and the economy, while still fragile, also showed some positive signs of recovery according to observers. But relatively little has been accomplished in structurally solving most of the country's other grave problems, such as poverty and inequality, possibly in part due to legislative and political conflicts between the administration and the Colombian Congress (including those over a controversial project to eventually give Uribe the possibility of re-election), and a relative lack of freely allocated funds and credits.\n\nSome critical observers considered that Uribe's policies, while reducing crime and guerrilla activity, were too slanted in favor of a military solution to Colombia's internal war while neglecting grave social and human rights concerns. Critics have asked for Uribe's government to change this position and make serious efforts towards improving the human rights situation inside the country, protecting civilians and reducing any abuses committed by the armed forces. Political dissenters and labor union members, among others, have suffered from threats and have been murdered. \n\nIn 2001 the largest government supported paramilitary group, the AUC, which had been linked to drug trafficking and attacks on civilians, was added to the US State Department's list of Foreign Terrorist Organizations and the European Union and Canada soon followed suit.\n\nOn January 17, 2002, right-wing paramilitaries entered the village of Chengue, and divided up the villagers into two groups. They then went from person to person in one of the groups, smashing each person's head with sledgehammers and rocks, killing 24 people, as the Colombian military sat by and watched. Two other bodies were later discovered dumped in a shallow grave. As the paramilitaries left, they set fire to the village.\n\nIn 2004, it was revealed by the National Security Archive that a 1991 document from the U.S. Defense Intelligence Agency had described then-Senator Uribe as a \"close personal friend\" and collaborator of Pablo Escobar. The Uribe administration denied several of the allegations in the 1991 report.\n\nStarting in 2004 a disarmament process was begun of Colombia's paramilitary groups (especially the AUC) and was completed on April 12, 2006, when 1,700 fighters turned in their weapons in the town of Casibare.\n\nIn May 2006, the Colombian presidential election resulted in Uribe winning re-election with a historic first round vote tally of 62%, followed by leftist Carlos Gaviria with 22% and Horacio Serpa.\n\nOn June 28, 2007 the FARC suddenly reported the death of 11 of the 12 kidnapped provincial deputies from Valle del Cauca Department. The Colombian government accused the FARC of executing the hostages and stated that government forces had not made any rescue attempts. FARC claimed that the deaths occurred during a crossfire, after an attack to one of its camps by an \"unidentified military group\". FARC did not report any other casualties on either side.\n\nIn 2007, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez and Colombian Senator Piedad Córdoba were acting as authorised mediators in the ongoing Humanitarian Exchange between the FARC and the government of Colombia. Colombian President Álvaro Uribe had given Chávez permission to mediate, under the conditions that all meetings with the FARC would take place in Venezuela and that Chávez would not contact members of the Colombian military directly, but instead go through proper diplomatic channels. However, President Uribe abruptly terminated Chávez's mediation efforts on November 22, 2007, after Chávez personally contacted General Mario Montoya Uribe, the Commander of the Colombian National Army. In response, Chávez said that he was still willing to mediate, but had withdrawn Venezuela's ambassador to Colombia and placed Colombian-Venezuelan relations \"in a freezer\" President Uribe responded by accusing Chávez of legitimizing terrorism and pursuing an expansionist project on the continent.\n\nSeveral scandals have affected Uribe's administration. The Colombian parapolitics scandal expanded during his second term, involving numerous members of the administration's ruling coalition. Many pro-government lawmakers, such as the President's cousin Mario Uribe, have been investigated for their possible ties to paramilitary organizations.\n\nAt the end of 2007, FARC agreed to release former senator Consuelo González, politician Clara Rojas and her son Emmanuel, born in captivity after a relationship with one of her captors. Operation Emmanuel was proposed and set up by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez, with the permission of the Colombian government. The mission was approved on December 26. Although, on December 31, FARC claimed that the hostage release had been delayed because of Colombian military operations. On the same time, Colombian President Álvaro Uribe indicated that FARC had not freed the three hostages because Emmanuel may not be in their hands anymore. Two FARC gunmen were taken prisoner. \n\nColombian authorities added that a boy matching Emmanuel's description had been taken to a hospital in San José del Guaviare in June 2005. The child was in poor condition; one of his arms was hurt, he had severe malnutrition, and he had diseases that are commonly suffered in the jungle. Having been evidently mistreated, the boy was later sent to a foster home in Bogotá and DNA tests were announced in order to confirm his identity.\n\nOn January 4, 2008, the results of a mitochondrial DNA test, comparing the child's DNA with that of his potential grandmother Clara de Rojas, were revealed by the Colombian government. It was reported that there was a very high probability that the boy was indeed part of the Rojas family. The same day, FARC released a communique in which they admitted that Emmanuel had been taken to Bogotá and \"left in the care of honest persons\" for safety reasons until a humanitarian exchange took place. The group accused President Uribe of \"kidnapping\" the child in order to sabotage his liberation.\nHowever, on January 10, 2008, FARC released Rojas and Gonzalez through a humanitarian commission headed by the International Committee of the Red Cross.\n\nOn January 13, 2008, Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez stated his disapproval with the FARC strategy of armed struggle and kidnapping saying \"I don't agree with kidnapping and I don't agree with armed struggle\". He repeated his call for a political solution and an end to the war on March and June 2008, \"The guerrilla war is history...At this moment in Latin America, an armed guerrilla movement is out of place\".\n\nOn February 2008, FARC released four others political hostages \"as a gesture of goodwill\" toward Chávez, who had brokered the deal and sent Venezuelan helicopters with Red Cross logos into the Colombian jungle to pick up the freed hostages.\n\nOn March 1, 2008, the Colombian armed forces launched a military operation 1.8 kilometres into Ecuador on a FARC position, killing 24, including Raúl Reyes, member of the FARC Central High Command. This led to the 2008 Andean diplomatic crisis between Colombia and Ecuadorian President Rafael Correa, supported by Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. On March 3, Iván Ríos, also a member of the FARC Central High Command was killed by his security chief \"Rojas\". In March 2008 alone, FARC lost 3 members of their Secretariat, including their founder.\n\nOn May 24, 2008, Colombian magazine, \"Revista Semana\", published an interview with Colombian defense minister Juan Manuel Santos in which Santos mentions the death of Manuel Marulanda Vélez. The news was confirmed by FARC-commander 'Timochenko' on Venezuelan based television station Telesur on May 25, 2008. 'Timochenko' announced the new commander in chief is 'Alfonso Cano'.\n\nIn May 2008, a dozen jailed paramilitary leaders were extradited to the United States on drug-related charges. In 2009, extradited paramilitary leader Salvatore Mancuso would claim that the AUC had supported Uribe's 2002 election, but said that this was a result of their similar \"ideological discourse\" and not the result of any direct prior arrangement.\n\nOn July 2, 2008, the Colombian armed forces launched Operation Jaque that resulted in the freedom of 15 political hostages, including former Colombian presidential candidate Íngrid Betancourt, Marc Gonsalves, Thomas Howes, and Keith Stansell, three American military contractors employed by Northrop Grumman and 11 Colombian military and police. Two FARC members were arrested. This trick to the FARC was presented by the Colombian government as a proof that the guerrilla organisation and influence is declining. \n\nOn October 26, 2008, after 8 years of captivity, the ex-congressman Óscar Tulio Lizcano escaped with the assistance of a FARC rebel he convinced to travel with him. Soon after the liberation of this prominent political hostage, the Vice President of Colombia Francisco Santos Calderón called Latin America's biggest guerrilla group a \"paper tiger\" with little control of the nation's territory, adding that \"they have really been diminished to the point where we can say they are a minimal threat to Colombian security,\" and that \"After six years of going after them, reducing their income and promoting reinsertion of most of their members, they look like a paper tiger.\" However, he warned against any kind of premature triumphalism, because \"crushing the rebels will take time.\" The of jungle in Colombia makes it hard to track them down to fight.\n\nAccording to the Colombian government, in early 2009 FARC launched plan \"Rebirth\" to avoid being defeated. They planned to intensify guerrilla warfare by the use of landmines, snipers, and bomb attacks in urban areas. They also plan to buy missiles to fight the Colombian airforce which highly contribute to their weakness since few years.\n\nIn February 2009, the guerrilla released 6 hostages as a humanitarian gesture. In March, they released Swedish hostage Erik Roland Larsson. \n\nIn April 2009, the Colombian armed forces launched \"Strategic Leap\", an offensive in borders areas where the FARC's forces still has a strong military presence, especially in Arauca, near the Venezuelan border.\n\nIn November 2009, Nine Colombian soldiers were killed when their post was attacked by FARC guerrillas in a southwestern part of the country.\n\nOn December 22, 2009, FARC rebels raided the home of Provincial governor Luis Francisco Cuéllar, killing one police officer and wounding two. Cuellar was found dead the following day.\n\nOn January 1, 2010, Eighteen FARC rebels were killed when the Colombian Air Force bombed a jungle camp in Southern Colombia. Colombian troops of the elite Task Force Omega then stormed the camp, capturing fifteen FARC rebels, as well as 25 rifles, war materials, explosives, and information which was given to military intelligence. In Southwestern Colombia, FARC rebels ambushed an army patrol, killing a soldier. The troops then exchanged fire with the rebels. During the fighting, a teenager was killed in the crossfire.\n\nWhen Juan Manuel Santos was elected president in August 2010, he promised to \"continue the armed offensive\" against rebel movements. In the month after his inauguration, FARC and ELN killed roughly 50 soldiers and policemen in attacks all over Colombia. September also saw the killing of FARC's second-in-command Mono Jojoy. By the end of 2010, it became increasingly clear that \"neo-paramilitary groups\", referred to as \"criminal groups\" (BACRIM) by the government, had become an increasing threat to national security, with violent groups such as Los Rastrojos and Aguilas Negras taking control of large parts of the Colombian countryside.\n\nIn 2010, the FARC killed at least 460 members of the security forces, while wounding more than 2,000.\n\nBy early 2011, Colombian authorities and news media reported that the FARC and the clandestine sister groups have partly shifted strategy from guerrilla warfare to \"a war of militias\", meaning that they are increasingly operating in civilian clothes while hiding amongst sympathizers in the civilian population. In early January 2011, the Colombian army said that the FARC has some 18,000 members, with 9,000 of those forming part of the militias. The army says it has \"identified\" at least 1,400 such militia members in the FARC-strongholds of Valle del Cauca and Cauca in 2011. In June 2011, Colombian chief of staff Edgar Cely claimed that the FARC wants to \"urbanize their actions\", which could partly explain the increased guerrilla activity in Medellín and particularly Cali. Jeremy McDermott, co-director of Insight Crime, estimates that FARC may have some 30,000 \"part-time fighters\" in 2011, consisting of supporters making up the rebel militia network instead of armed uniformed combatants.\n\nIn 2011, the Colombian Congress issued a statement claiming that the FARC has a \"strong presence\" in roughly one third of Colombia, while their attacks against security forces \"have continued to rise\" throughout 2010 and 2011.\n\nIn 2012, the Colombia Military launched The Espada de Honor War Plan, an aggressive counterinsurgency strategies that aims to dismantle FARC's structure, crippling them both militarily and financially. The plan targets FARC leadership and it is focused on eliminating 15 of the most powerful economic and military fronts.\n\nOn July 20, 2013, as peace talks were making progress, two rebel attacks on government positions killed 19 soldiers and an unspecified number of combatants. It was the deadliest day since peace talks began in November 2012.\n\nOn 15 December 2014, 9 FARC guerrillas were killed in the aftermath airstrikes conducted by the Colombian air force in the Meta province.\n\nOn 22 May 2015, the FARC suspended a truce after 26 of its fighters were killed in a government air and ground offensive.\n\nOn 22 June 2015, a Colombian Army Black Hawk helicopter was destroyed while landing on a mine field laid by FARC: four soldiers were killed and six were wounded.\n\nOn 23 June 2016, the Colombian government and FARC agreed to a ceasefire. A \"final, full and definitive accord\" was agreed to on August 24, 2016. This accord does not include ELN.\n\nOn 2 October 2016, the results of the referendum to decide whether or not to support the peace accord showed that 50.2% opposed the accord while 49.8% favoured it.\n\nIn October 2016, President Juan Manuel Santos was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize for his resolute efforts to bring the country's more than 50-year-long war to an end.\n\nThe Colombian government and the FARC on November 24 signed a revised peace deal and the revised agreement will be submitted to Congress for approval. The House of Representatives unanimously approved the plan on November 30, a day after the Senate also gave its backing.\n\nIn September 2019, Colombia’s President Iván Duque Márquez launched a new military crackdown against FARC, which declared resuming the armed struggle due to the government’s failure to abide by the 2016 peace deal.\n\nOn April 25, senior Gulf's Cartel (Clan de Golfo) leader Gustavo Adolfo Álvarez Téllez, who was one of Colombia's most wanted drug lords and had bounty of up to 580 million pesos for his capture, was arrested at his lavish estate in Cereté while holding a party under quarantine during the COVID-19 pandemic. Álvarez was described as the \"brain\" of the cartel, and by this point was reported to have taken charge of the cartel's Caribbean operations.\n\nFARC dissidents are a group formerly part of the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia, who have refused to lay down their arms after the FARC-government peace treaty came into effect in 2016. The dissidents number some 1200 armed combatants with an unknown number of civilian militia supporting them. The FARC dissidents have become \"an increasing headache\" for the Colombian armed forces, as they have to fight them, the EPL, ELN and Clan del Golfo at the same time. FARC dissidents are led by former mid-level commanders such as alias Gentil Duarte, alias Euclides Mora, alias John 40, alias Giovanny Chuspas and alias Julián Chollo. The FARC dissidents have been responsible for several attacks on the Colombian armed forces. These fighters are believed to be heavily involved in the production and sale of cocaine. Dissidents of FARC’s 1st Front are located in the eastern plains of Colombia. Jhon 40 and their dissident 43rd Front moved into the Amazonas state of western Venezuela. Venezuela has served as the primary location for many FARC dissidents. On 15 July 2018, the Colombian and Peruvian governments launched a joint military effort known as Operation Armageddon to combat FARC dissidents. Peru issued a 60-day state of emergency in the Putumayo Province, an area bordering both Colombia and Ecuador. On the first day alone, more than 50 individuals were arrested in the operation, while four cocaine labs were dismantled. The group has attempted to recruit locals in the Putumayo Province in Peru to take up their cause.\n\nThe destruction of physical infrastructure has represented high costs for several sectors of the economy, directly altering production and distribution networks. The costs generated by damage to the oil infrastructure have shown a substantial increase since 1990. This is mainly explained by the increase in attacks on oil pipelines by groups outside the law. According to data from Ecopetrol, between 1999 and 2003, the costs assumed by the hydrocarbon exploitation sector grew by approximately 59%, amounting to $817,654.5 million. This equates to 23.6% of the total royalties that Ecopetrol turned to 20 departments and 110 municipalities, destined to improve the quality of life of the inhabitants. For 2004, costs decreased substantially to $11,015.5 million. This is the first sector most affected by the terrorist actions of groups outside the law. The costs are mainly derived from the spilled oil, \"[...] from the repair of the pipeline, from the environmental decontamination and from the oil stopped producing 60% of the total expenses incurred.\" During the 1999–2003 period, costs against electrical and telecommunications towers increased substantially, representing $134,871.2 million. This is equivalent to 5.4% of 2003 GDP for the electricity, gas and water sector. On the other hand, according to data from the National Institute of Roads (INVÍAS), between 1993–1995, groups outside the law demolished eleven tolls and a bridge, and its reconstruction cost $378,476,248. This amount increased significantly during the 1999–2003 period, when the costs generated by the reconstruction of bridges represented $18,455.7 million. These costs are equivalent to 1.71% of the total INVÍAS budget for 2003. For 2004, costs for damages to the road infrastructure dropped substantially to $680 million. The partial interruption of the roads directly affects the transport sector, food and other private guilds, which in turn assume costs for these damages. However, generally these have not been quantified, because of the difficulty they have to be directly calculated. This tends to present itself as a generalized problem in quantifying the costs associated with conflict. This is explained, in part, by the tendency in the various economic sectors not to denounce this type of actions that, in one way or another, interrupt the normal functioning of economic activities.\n\nColombia is the country in which more people are and have been kidnapped. Kidnapping, as one of the manifestations that underlie the armed conflict, carries both direct and indirect costs. The former comprise mainly the payment of ransoms and the expenses assumed by the State to control and prevent it. Indirect costs include, \"[...] the loss of human capital for the duration of the detention and for the death of the kidnapped during his captivity\". There are two types of kidnapping: a) kidnapping for extortion and political purposes; and b) simple kidnapping. According to data from the Directorate of Justice and Security of the DNP, this phenomenon shows an increasing trend. With respect to the costs of sequestration, the sources suggest an increasing behavior between 1996 and 2003. In such a way that \"the average annual growth rate is 9.3%, the highest rate is observed in 1998 (46.2%), and in 2000 (37.2%) year in which the number of kidnappings also it is significantly high [...] reaching its peak in the year 2000 with 1,938 cases.\" From then on, the trend becomes decreasing (except for a peak in 2002 with 1,542 cases) until reaching the 350 kidnappings (the lowest figure since 1996) in 2005. Within these costs, 64.4% are direct, representing US $167.4 million. 35.6% of the remaining costs are indirect, and represent US $92.7 million. In 2004, the costs of sequestration were reduced to $109,519 million, representing 0.27% of GDP in 2003.\n\nWhile spending on defense and security becomes very important to examine when dealing with a country immersed in an armed conflict, the analysis on this issue are relatively recent. This can be explained because until the beginning of the second half of the nineties, defense and security spending had a significant growth. Spending on defense and security includes, on the one hand, the means by which the State must have to defend sovereignty and territorial integrity, and on the other, the costs involved in maintaining internal security. Various studies of National Planning suggest that the Colombian State spends a much greater percentage in defense and security than other Latin American countries. Between 1991–1996, the estimated value of these resources was $3.7 billion. That is, 2.6% of GDP, while for Latin America the average of this expenditure was 1.7% of GDP. A study carried out by the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) for the year 2001 \"[...] shows that Colombia ranked 24th in the countries with the largest participation in military spending, out of a total of 116 investigated.\"The figure for the participation of military expenditures in GDP was 3.8% for Colombia while in the countries of the American continent the closest figure is that of the United States with 3.1% followed by Chile with 2.9%, Ecuador with 2.1% and the rest of countries below 2.0% \". Thus, for the period 1999–2003, defense and security spending was $8,463,611.0 million, equivalent to 10.5% of GDP in 2003. The excess of said expense, compared to the average cost of neighboring countries, It was close to 0.79% of GDP. A Fedesarrollo study states that the Spending on defense and security carried out during 2004 \"[...] represented 4.5% of GDP [...] \" which does not have precedents in the history of Colombia. This is directly related to the undertaken by the government of the current president Álvaro Uribe, who focuses on hitting militarily to groups outside the law, in order to regain security national. On the other hand, for the year 2004, the expenses of the Colombian Government in war and security were 6.59%, placing the country between the tenth that invest the most in war as proportion of GDP .\n\nThe estimated loss of human capital and productivity due to labor absenteeism in 2003 amounted to $366.2 billion\". On the other hand, the loss of land productivity, which translates into a negative impact on administration, investment in physical and social capital, and the price of land in subsectors such as livestock and commercial agriculture is one of the consequences associated with the presence of an armed conflict. This cost is mainly assumed by farmers who experience the pressure of armed actions in their areas of operation. Within this context, the most serious consequences are related to the devaluation of the properties, the loss of productivity of the land -represented in the products that could potentially have been cultivated in these lands- and the difficulty in managing the efficient production of the lands. According to a study of National Planning, the estimated costs for the loss of productivity of land represented, between 1999 and 2003, $140,443.5 million, equivalent to 1.28% of the GDP of the agricultural sector of 2003.\n\nThe duration and expansion of the national conflict has had a significant impact on the distribution of income and wealth in Colombia. According to an investigation by the CEDE of the Universidad de los Andes, \"as a result of the displacement, the displaced households have left behind a little more than four million hectares, which correspond to 6.7 times of the total hectares granted by the program. of Agrarian Reform during the period between 1993 and 2000, and represent a total value of $ 2.6 billion.\" In this context, the enormous concentration of rural property in the hands of a few individuals is not only the result of the purchase of land by drug traffickers and the illegal appropriation by groups outside the law, but also the consequence of acquisition of properties devalued due to the armed conflict [...]. It is estimated that 1.3% of the owners control 48% of the best lands. On the other hand, a study carried out by the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) states that the Colombian conflict has had a negative effect on the income of the population. According to this study, because of the conflict, Colombia has lost 17% of its per capita income in the last ten years. That is to say, \"[...] the money wasted every year corresponds to about 4.6 times what the community welfare homes programs, children's homes and school restaurants of the social support network cos.\"\n\nAlthough the agents adjust their investment behavior, that is, they internalize the phenomenon of violence, assuming it as a change in the structures of the economy in the long term the investment of both the State and the private sector is diminished in substantial ways. In the Colombian case, the loss in private investment has been estimated at 0.53 points of the annual GDP, due to the public order conditions that arise directly from the presence of an armed conflict. A 1% increase in the homicide rate reduces private investment by 0.66%. Thus, we can observe that the high levels of violence directly affect the transaction costs and levels of uncertainty in society. Likewise, they reduce to a certain degree the profitability of investments. A study by Corporación Invertir en Colombia (Coinvertir) and the National Planning Department (DNP) shows that insecurity hinders the development of new foreign investments, especially in the financial, oil and gas, and electric power sectors.\n\nOne of the biggest problems to invest in Colombia is that it is necessary to devote a large part of the budget to security and protection controls, which is very difficult to justify before the house. In this sense, the economic environment affected by the violence translates into a tax on investment.\" On the other hand, within the studies on the costs of the conflict, specific sectors such as the private sector have begun to be studied, taking into account the high costs they have had to assume due to the existence of this phenomenon. The large companies and those that operate at the national level assume the highest costs associated with the existence of the conflict. This is because they are more attractive for someone who wants to extort for example, and also those who lose most in adverse conditions. Appealing to the economic arguments that underlie the conflict, various state and international aid and cooperation institutions seek to establish the scope and potential benefits of a peaceful situation. This argument has mobilized and sensitized various sectors of society to understand that peace is also an economic necessity. In Colombia, as shown in the studies that have estimated the costs of the conflict, since the nineties it has imposed increasingly higher costs to various productive sectors of the economy and society in general.\n\nAmong the sectors most affected by the conflict are the exploitation of hydrocarbons, electricity and livestock. This is explained, in part, because the areas where the operations and activities of these sectors take place, in parallel, are the territories where groups outside the law exert a very strong presence. Likewise, for the Colombian private sector, indirect costs have more impact on their activities than direct costs. With respect to indirect costs, although there is a clear difficulty to be quantified, the various studies suggest that they have been significantly high and that they have had a representative impact on society as such.\n\nThe United States has been heavily involved in the conflict since its beginnings, when in the early 1960s the U.S. government encouraged the Colombian military to attack leftist militias in rural Colombia. This was part of the U.S. fight against communism.\n\nIn October 1959, the United States sent a \"Special Survey Team\", composed of counterinsurgency experts, to investigate Colombia's internal security situation. In February 1962, a Fort Bragg top-level U.S. Special Warfare team headed by Special Warfare Center commander General William P. Yarborough, visited Colombia for a second survey. In a secret supplement to his report to the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Yarborough encouraged the creation and deployment of a paramilitary force to commit sabotage and terrorist acts against communists:\n\nThe first paramilitary groups were organized following recommendations made by U.S. military counterinsurgency advisers who were sent to Colombia during the Cold War to combat leftist political activists and armed guerrilla groups.\n\nOne multinational corporation has also been directly tied to paramilitary death squads. Chiquita Brands International was fined $25 million as part of a settlement with the United States Justice Department for having ties to paramilitary groups. In 2016, Judge Kenneth Marra of the Southern District of Florida ruled in favor of allowing Colombians to sue former Chiquita Brand International executives for the company's funding of the outlawed right-wing paramilitary organization that murdered their family members. He stated in his decision that \"'profits took priority over basic human welfare' in the banana company executives' decision to finance the illegal death squads, despite knowing that this would advance the paramilitaries' murderous campaign.\"\n\nIn December 2013, \"The Washington Post\" revealed a covert CIA program, started in the early 2000s, which provides the Colombian government with intelligence and GPS guidance systems for smart bombs.\n\nAs of August, 2004, the US had spent $3 billion in Colombia, more than 75% of it on military aid. Before the Iraq war, Colombia was the third largest recipient of US aid only after Egypt and Israel, and the U.S. has 400 military personnel and 400 civilian contractors in Colombia. Currently, however, Colombia is not a top recipient of U.S. aid; while it was under the first five years of the Plan Colombia, Colombia today no longer ranks among the top ten.\n\nIn March 2015, it was revealed DEA agents were participating in drug cartel-funded sex parties with prostitutes. Agents were provided with expensive gifts, weapons and money from drug cartel members. The head of the US Drug Enforcement Administration, Michele Leonhart announced her retirement. Leonhart's tenure as DEA Administrator was marked with controversy and scandals including a prostitution scandal.\n\nIf the peace talks underway in Havana are successful in bringing peace to Colombia, this U.S. aid to the military will likely need to be reallocated to help support a lasting peace.\n\nColombia rejects threats and blackmail of the United States of America after the threat of Donald Trump to decertify the country as a partner in counter-narcotics efforts.\n\nAccording to a study by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 220,000 people have died in the conflict between 1958 and 2013, most of them civilians (177,307 civilians and 40,787 fighters) and more than five million civilians were forced from their homes between 1985 – 2012, generating the world's second largest population of internally displaced persons (IDPs). The report shows that the humanitarian crisis in Colombia is extremely serious in terms of both lethal and nonlethal violence. The report examines the widespread use of sexual violence against women and girls as a weapon of war, as well as the invisibility of this phenomenon. 16.9% of the population in Colombia has been a direct victim of the war.\n\n2.3 million children have been displaced from their homes, and 45,000 children killed, according to national figures cited by Unicef. In total, one in three of the 7.6 million registered victims of the conflict are children, and since 1985, 8,000 minors have disappeared. Since the peace talks with the FARC began four years ago, some 1,000 children have been forcibly recruited by some of the myriad armed groups in the country, 75 have been killed, and 65 schools have been damaged by fighting.\n\nAccording to the report \"Basta ya\", written in 2013 by Colombia's National Centre for Historical Memory, 80% of victims affected by conflict-related violence and landmines were civilians. The report documents 1,982 massacres between 1980 and 2012.\n\nThe Government also began a process of assistance, attention and comprehensive reparation for victims of conflict. During his visit to Colombia, Pope Francis brought with him a message of peace and paid tribute to the victims of the conflict.\n\nThe Special Jurisdiction of Peace (\"Jurisdicción Especial para la Paz\", JEP) would be the transitional justice component of the Comprehensive System, complying with Colombia's duty to investigate, clarify, prosecute and punish serious human rights violations and grave breaches of international humanitarian law which occurred during the armed conflict. Its objectives would be to satisfy victims' right to justice, offer truth to the public, contribute to the reparation of victims, contribute to the fight against impunity, adopt decisions which give full legal security to direct and indirect participants in the conflict and contribute to the achievement of a stable and lasting peace.\n\nThe Special Unit for the Search of Missing Persons in the context and due to the armed conflict (\"Unidad especial para la búsqueda de personas dadas por desaparecidas en el contexto y en razón del conflicto armado\") would be a special high-level unit created following the signature of the final agreement. It would direct and coordinate efforts to search for and locate missing persons, or find their remains so that they may be returned to their families. To carry out its work, the search unit would collect the necessary information about missing persons, analyze the information collected, strengthen and streamline processes for identifying mortal remains in coordination with the National Institute of Legal Medicine and Forensic Sciences, guarantee families' participation and present an official report to families informing them of the fate of missing relatives. The search unit would be administrative and financially independent and autonomous, complementing the other components of the Comprehensive System.\n\nSince 1990, over 11,000 people have been killed or wounded by landmines in Colombia. Between 1982 and the end of 2012, 2,038 people have been killed by landmines, according to the Presidential Program for Mine Action. Since 2000, casualties from landmines in Colombia have ranged from 1,300 a year to just around 550.\n\nIn the past, the Colombian government laid landmines around 34 military bases to protect key infrastructure, but it renounced their use in 1997. Landmines are primarily used by the rebel groups to protect their home bases and illegal drug crops, which fund the conflict. FARC and ELN have deployed antipersonnel mines throughout an estimated area of up to 100 square kilometers. In March 2015, FARC stated that it would begin humanitarian demining in selected parts of Colombia.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857629", "title": "R308 (South Africa)", "text": "R308 (South Africa)\n\nThe R308 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects R356 near Fraserburg with Carnarvon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857631", "title": "R309 (South Africa)", "text": "R309 (South Africa)\n\nThe R309 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Postmasburg with the R64 between Groblershoop and Griquatown.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857633", "title": "Internet in Christmas Island", "text": "Internet in Christmas Island\n\nInternet in Christmas Island is supplied by SpeedCast. According to the 2016 Australian census, 78.5% of the population accessed the Internet from home.\n\nChristmas Island's Internet services were previously supplied by Christmas Island Internet Administration Limited (CiiA), but were cut on March 1, 2017, affecting about 1000 customers' 4G and fixed wireless services. Landline and 2G services were not affected. The company stated it was forced to close because it could not compete with the National Broadband Network (NBN). CiiA lodged a complaint with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission to stop the NBN rollout, but failed. The Department of Infrastructure and Regional Development stated the company had refused financial support.\n\nOn March 14, 2017, SpeedCast announced it had reached an agreement with the Australian Government to deliver wireless and 4G services until June 30 of the same year, to allow a transition period until more NBN services were installed. Minister for Local Government and Territories Fiona Nash thanked SpeedCast for \"stepping in to provide an internet service that will get Christmas Island back online.\"\n\n.cx - Internet domain name for Christmas Island\n"}
{"id": "1857635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857635", "title": "R310 (South Africa)", "text": "R310 (South Africa)\n\nThe R310 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Muizenberg to the south-west with R45 between Paarl and Franschhoek to the north-east, via Stellenbosch and Hellshoogte Pass. The section between Muizenberg and Stellenbosch is called Baden Powell Drive.\n\nIts beginning in Muizenberg is an intersection with Cape Town's M4. It runs east, hugging the coast, passing through Mitchell's Plain and Khayelitsha. It then veers inland, heading north-east skirting Blue Downs to the east to reach Stellenbosch. Here, it is cosigned with the R44 to the north, before again heading north-east, through the Hellshoogte Pass. On the other side, it passes through Pniel to end at the R45.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857639", "title": "R311 (South Africa)", "text": "R311 (South Africa)\n\nThe R311 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the R45 between Malmesbury and Hopefield to the north-west with Riebeek-Kasteel to the south-east.\n\nFrom the R45, the route heads east. It passes through Moorreesburg, where it meets the N7. It is briefly co-signed heading south, before diverging to head south-east. It passes through Riebeek West to end at Riebeek-Kasteel at an intersection with the R46.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857644", "title": "R312 (South Africa)", "text": "R312 (South Africa)\n\nThe R312 is a Regional Route in South Africa. Its western origin is north of Durbanville and it heads east to the R44 near Paarl and Wellington.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857645", "title": "R313 (South Africa)", "text": "R313 (South Africa)\n\nThe R313 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Prieska with the N8 between Griquatown and Groblershoop.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857646", "title": "R315 (South Africa)", "text": "R315 (South Africa)\n\nThe R315 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Yzerfontein on the west coast with Malmesbury to the east.\n\nFrom Yzerfontein, it heads east. It crosses the R27 to reach Darling. At Darling, it meets the R307 and becomes co-signed with it heading south. Just south of the town, it diverges, again heading east. It ends in Malmesbury at the N7.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857648", "title": "Kerry McCarthy", "text": "Kerry McCarthy\n\nKerry Gillian McCarthy (born 26 March 1965) is a British Labour Party politician who has been the Member of Parliament (MP) for Bristol East since 2005 and was the Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs from September 2015 to June 2016.\n\nMcCarthy was born in Luton, where she attended Denbigh High School, followed by Luton Sixth Form College. McCarthy studied at the University of Liverpool reading Russian Studies, before studying law at City of London Polytechnic.\n\nMcCarthy qualified as a solicitor in 1994 and worked as a lawyer for Abbey National Treasury Services (1994–1996), Merrill Lynch Europe (1996–1999) and the Labour Party (2001). She was a director of London Luton Airport Ltd (1999–2003), a director at Britain in Europe (2002–2004), and Head of Public Policy at the Waterfront Partnership (2004–2005).\n\nMcCarthy began a doctorate on Labour links with the City of London at Goldsmith's College, but did not complete it. She was a councillor in Luton, and was a member of Labour's National Policy Forum.\n\nIn 2005, McCarthy was selected as the Labour candidate for Bristol East through an all-women shortlist and retained the seat for her party at the 2005 general election. She was appointed a member of the Treasury Select Committee, and was involved in its inquiries into financial inclusion, globalisation and the role of the International Monetary Fund, and the administration of tax credits. She has also sat on two Finance Bill committees, as well as the UK Borders Bill Committee, the Offender Management Bill Committee and the Mental Health Bill Committee. She was described as a Gordon Brown loyalist, stating in 2005 that \"The Chancellor's nine Budgets are the bedrock of all that we have achieved in government\".\n\nIn April 2007, McCarthy was appointed Parliamentary Private Secretary (PPS) to Rosie Winterton, Minister for Health Services, and helped her steer the Mental Health Bill through the Commons. From July 2007 to January 2009, she worked as PPS to Douglas Alexander, the Secretary of State for International Development, before being made a Junior Whip in June 2009. She is chair of the South West Group of Labour MPs, secretary of the All-Party Parliamentary Group on Somaliland, a member of Labour's National Policy Forum, and lead contact for the End Child Poverty campaign among Labour MPs in parliament. She has not voted against the party line since March 2007.\n\nShe was re-elected at the 2010 General Election, with her majority reduced by more than a half. She was appointed as a temporary shadow Minister for work and pensions until October 2010 when she was appointed as a junior shadow Minister to the Treasury. She had supported Ed Balls' unsuccessful bid to become Labour leader. In September 2011, McCarthy was made Shadow Foreign Office Minister with a responsibility for human rights.\n\nShe is believed to be the first MP to deliver a speech in Parliament with the aid of an iPad.\n\nOn World Vegan Day in November 2011, McCarthy became the first MP to set out in Parliament the case for becoming vegan.\n\nAfter being re-elected with an increased majority in the 2015 General Election, McCarthy nominated Andy Burnham in that year's Labour leadership campaign. She was appointed by Jeremy Corbyn as Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs in September 2015. She argued in a Spring 2015 interview with \"Viva!life\", a magazine for vegans, that meat should be treated like tobacco, with \"public campaigns to stop people eating it\". Tim Bonner of the Countryside Alliance said her opinions \"are completely out of step with the vast majority of people\". \"The world is not going to turn vegan because I am in post\", McCarthy said on BBC Radio 4's \"Farming Today\" shortly after her appointment. \"I have my own personal views on what I choose to eat, but I accept that we have a livestock industry in this country. What I want is for the industry to have the best welfare standards possible, to be sustainable as well as economically viable.\"\nOn 26 June 2016, McCarthy was among dozens of shadow ministers who resigned from Corbyn's team. She argued that \"a new leader is needed to take on the challenges ahead\". According to McCarthy, in an article for \"The Huffington Post\": \"When the leader's office did venture into Defra territory, they didn't talk to the shadow team\". McCarthy does not believe Corbyn is the right Labour leader or a potential prime minister. She supported Owen Smith in the 2016 Labour leadership election.\n\nIn November 2017, McCarthy raised a complaint of inappropriate behaviour against Kelvin Hopkins, Labour MP for Luton South, which remained unresolved at the time Hopkins stepped down as an MP before the 2019 General Election.\n\nIn the 2020 Labour Party leadership election, McCarthy nominated the successful candidate Keir Starmer. She later returned to the Labour frontbench in April 2020 as the Shadow Minister for Green Transport and Aviation. \n\nIn May 2009, McCarthy repaid £402 for a second bed claimed in expenses for her one bedroom flat. She stated the claim had been made in error.\n\nIn October 2010, McCarthy admitted a charge of electoral fraud, accepting a police caution for revealing on Twitter the number of postal votes cast per party in her constituency at the 2010 election, and apologised for this action.\n\nIn May 2012, McCarthy branded a fellow train passenger a \"lager drinking oaf\" and suggested he should \"have been killed before he could breed\" in comments made to her followers on Twitter. According to McCarthy, he was playing loud techno music on the train and wearing a t-shirt emblazoned with an obscene phrase about his sex life.\n\nMcCarthy is a vegan, and has given talks on the subject. She was a presenter at the Vegan Society's 2005 annual awards. She divides her time between Bristol and London, and is a part-owner of a house in Luton.\nShe is a vice-president of the League Against Cruel Sports, and an honorary associate of the National Secular Society.\n\nMcCarthy is a fan of punk and post-punk music. She has written about industrial bands including Cabaret Voltaire and Test Dept for the website \"Louder Than War\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1857650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857650", "title": "R316 (South Africa)", "text": "R316 (South Africa)\n\nThe R316 is a regional route in the Western Cape province of South Africa that connects Caledon to the northwest with Arniston to the southeast via Bredasdorp and Napier. It runs for and maintains a south-easterly direction for most of its course.\n\nThe route begins at a junction with the N2 in Caledon. In Caledon, it gives off the R320 towards Hermanus. Leaving Caledon, its next major intersection is with the crossing R326. From there it continues onward to Napier and then Bredasdorp. Just outside Bredasdorp it receives R317, and in the town it overlaps with the R319. From Bredasdorp, the route reaches its coastal conclusion at Arniston.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857651", "title": "Gay Life", "text": "Gay Life\n\nGay Life was a weekly newspaper about gay culture published by the LGBT Community Center of Baltimore and Central Maryland. It was distributed in Baltimore, Maryland and throughout the Mid-Atlantic region.\n\nIn September 1979, the GCCB began to put out a monthly newsletter that evolved into the \"Baltimore Gay Paper (BGP)\". The \"Gay Paper\" eventually became \"Gay Life\". The lesbian activist Gail Vivino volunteered to use the basement of her Charles Village apartment at 2745 N. Calvert Street to host the production space for the newspaper, as well as the switchboard for the GLCCB. The production space later moved into a building at 241 West Chase Street.\n\nThe editor and co-founder of the newspaper was Louise Kelley, a lesbian and feminist activist who wrote for Women's Express, served as a board member for the Chase Brexton clinic, worked on the Schmoke administration's Task Force on Gay and Lesbian Issues, and coordinate women's activities for the GLCCB.\n\nIn 2016, \"Gay Life\" was purchased from the GLCCB and merged into the LGBT newspaper \"Baltimore OUTloud.\"\n\nBaltimore's Enoch Pratt Free Library maintains a partial archive of the newspaper on microfilm in its Periodicals Department Collection. The newspaper is also available on microfilm at Cornell University, Michigan State University, and the University of Chicago.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857652", "title": "HICAS", "text": "HICAS\n\nHICAS \"/hīkas/\" (High Capacity Actively Controlled Steering) is Nissan's rear wheel steering system found on cars ranging from the more recent Skyline and Fairlady Z (300ZX) iterations to smaller models like the Nissan Cefiro (A31), 240SX/Silvia (S13 & S15)/180SX and Nissan Serena/Nissan Largo. It is also found on models from Nissan's Infiniti division, such as the Q45, M45/M35 and G37. Unlike many other four wheel steering systems, HICAS and Super HICAS are fitted to improve handling rather than just as a parking aid.\n\nHICAS was introduced on the 1986 (HICAS was almost used on the 1985 model but was not ready in time for production) Skyline GTS coupes (GTS, GTS-R, and GTS-X). The system was later adapted to work on many models in the Nissan range, beginning with the Passage GT.\n\nEarlier models of HICAS (hydraulic versions of HICAS) did not depend only on the high speeds using the speedometer but were used to maneuver at lower speeds through obstacles.\nAfter disabling HICAS, it has been noted that slow maneuvers including parking and quick response steering seemed more difficult.\n\nEarlier HICAS versions used hydraulics to steer the rear wheels. The hydraulic system was powered by the power steering pump and used speed sensors to determine how much and in which direction to steer the rear wheels.\n\nLater versions, called Super HICAS, moved to an electric actuator for the rear steering rack, making the system much lighter. The Super HICAS system also used its own computer to control the system instead of speed sensors. HICAS and Super HICAS rear wheel steering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857653", "title": "R317 (South Africa)", "text": "R317 (South Africa)\n\nThe R317 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Bredasdorp in the south with Robertson in the north via Bonnievale.\n\nIts northerly origin in Robertson is from the R60. It leaves the town heading east, but veers south. It bypasses Bonnievale to the east, and then crosses the N2 at a staggered interchange. After this it meets the R316 and R319 at Bredasdorp.\n\nWhen surfacing and upgrading of the Gansbaai–Elim–Bredasdorp road is complete the R317 numbering will be extended along this road.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857656", "title": "R318 (South Africa)", "text": "R318 (South Africa)\n\nThe R318 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N1 between De Doorns and Touws River in the north-west with Montagu in the south-east via the Koo and Keisie Valleys. \n\nFrom its northern origin, it heads south through the Rooihoogte Pass. After this pass, the route veers east through the Koo Valley then down Burgers Pass to run further east through the lower Keisie Valley. The route ends in Montagu at the R62.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857658", "title": "R319 (South Africa)", "text": "R319 (South Africa)\n\nThe R319 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects L'Agulhas and Struisbaai in the south with the N2 near Swellendam via Bredasdorp.\n\nFrom L'Agulhas, it follows the coast east to nearby Struisbaai. The roads then heads north and inland, bypassing Hotagterklip to the east. Near Bredasdorp it receives the R317. The routes enter the town together where they meet the R316. The R319 is the first to diverge on the otherside of Bredasdorp and heads north-north-east to its terminus at the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857660", "title": "R320 (South Africa)", "text": "R320 (South Africa)\n\nThe R320 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Onrusrivier near Hermanus with Caledon. The road is tarred over its full length, including through Shaw's Pass.\n\nIts southern origin is the R43 at Onrusrivier, between Hawston and Hermanus. It heads north-east through Shaw's Mountain Pass to end at the R316 at Caledon.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857663", "title": "Gulf Province", "text": "Gulf Province\n\nGulf Province is a province of Papua New Guinea located on the southern coast. The provincial capital is Kerema. The 34,472 km² province is dominated by mountains, lowland river deltas, and grassland flood plains, the Kikori, Turama, Purari and Vailala rivers all meet the sea known as the Papuan Gulf. The province has the second-smallest population of all the provinces of Papua New Guinea with 106,898 inhabitants (2000 census). The province shares land borders with Western Province to the west, Southern Highlands, Chimbu, and Eastern Highlands to the north, Morobe Province to the east, and Central Province to the southeast.\n\nEach province in Papua New Guinea has one or more districts, and each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1978 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n"}
{"id": "1857665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857665", "title": "R321 (South Africa)", "text": "R321 (South Africa)\n\nThe R321 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Grabouw in the south-west to the R45 between Franschhoek and Villiersdorp in the north-east.\n\nFrom its southern origin at the N2, it runs along the eastern edge of Grabouw heading north-east. It crosses the dam wall of Theewaterskloof Dam after which it immediately ends, reaching the R45.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857669", "title": "R322 (South Africa)", "text": "R322 (South Africa)\n\nThe R322 is a Regional Route in South Africa. Its northern origin is a t-junction with the R324 between Suurbraak and Barrydale. The northern and western routes are signed the R324, with R322 heading just south of east. It reaches Heidelberg where it meets the N2. It becomes co-signed with this route, heading just south of west. After a short distance, it diverges from the N2 and heads south-south-west. The route ends at Port Beaufort (near Witsand) where it rejoins the R324.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857671", "title": "Pizzaiolo", "text": "Pizzaiolo\n\nPizzaiolo is an American-style pizza chain in Canada. The chain has 39 restaurants in the Greater Toronto Area.\n\nPizzaiolo was founded in Montorio, Italy in the early 1940s by Nonno Giuseppe and Nonna Ida, and was run at a small pizzeria. The company name derives from the Italian word \"pizzaiolo\" which means \"pizza maker\". In the 1960s, the company moved to Toronto where the chain was started by \"Mama Anna\" and \"Papa Antonio\". They opened their first full-fledged restaurant in 1967.\n\nPizzaiolo has 40 locations in the GTA.\n\nIt was the winner of a \"Now\" magazine Best of Toronto: Readers' Poll\" for \"Best Pizza Slice\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1857675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857675", "title": "Wingfoot Express", "text": "Wingfoot Express\n\nThe Wingfoot Express was Walt Arfons and Tom Green's jet-powered land speed record car, driven by Green to a record on October 2, 1964, after Walt suffered a heart attack just prior. The Express was powered by a Westinghouse J46 engine and hit the 413 mph record mark.\n\nAt a trade fair in Gary, Indiana in 1962, Arfons met Green, chief engineer for a torque wrench manufacturer. Although Green's only racing experience had been a year of stock car racing in New Mexico ten years previously, he was greatly interested in aerodynamics; this dovetailed perfectly with Arfons' interest in racing mechanics, and \"Within ten minutes we were planning our assault on the world's land speed record\" Green recalls.\n\nGreen shortly provided plans for a three-wheeled land speed record car, which had to be changed to four wheels to meet FIA rules; from there on there was little change until the car was finished. Green's emphasis was on reducing aerodynamic drag by lowering the drag coefficient and, especially, reducing frontal area by narrowing the track and using smaller wheels. His calculations indicated that the readily available surplus Westinghouse J46 jet engines would have more than enough power to drive the vehicle to over 400 miles per hour (640 km/h).\n\nIn order to find funding, Arfons and Green approached Goodyear, who were already funding Craig Breedlove's Spirit of America. In a presentation to 13 Goodyear executives Green emphasized his aerodynamic analyses, estimating that the wheel-driven Bluebird CN7 would be limited to 400 mph (640 km/h) and Nathan Ostich's revolutionary jet-powered Flying Caduceus to only 360 mph (580 km/h), but that their design should hit 480 mph (770 km/h), the target Breedlove was also going for. Although Spirit of America had a lower coefficient of drag, Green's design had a smaller frontal area and weighed slightly more than half as much. This, along with a thrust of 7,000 pounds force (31 kN) available from the J46 engine with afterburner, compared to only 4,400 pounds force (20 kN) available from Breedlove's J47 engine would make their design viable.\n\nWhen the Flying Caduceus frustrated Ostich's team by refusing to go any faster than 355 miles per hour (571 km/h), Green's mastery of the subject was evident enough that Goodyear decided to fund his project in addition to Breedlove's; thus the name, Wingfoot Express, from Goodyear's trademark winged foot, inspired by a statue of Mercury. (In 1964 Bluebird CN7 demonstrated a final speed of over 440 mph, even when limited by poor surface conditions, invalidating Green's estimate.) However, although Spirit Of America had a $250,000 budget and Bluebird CN7 more than $2,000,000, Arfons and Green's car cost only $78,000.\n\nWingfoot Express' cockpit was located centrally, just behind the front axle, covered with an acrylic glass canopy from in front of the driver's feet to behind his head. The front wheels were mounted within the bodywork barely further apart than the width of the engine, while the rear wheels were on outriggers and exposed to the air. Green estimated that the aerodynamic drag of the exposed rear wheels cost the car 20 miles per hour (30 km/h), but since his calculations indicated that they already had much greater speed available than they needed, this was not viewed as a problem. A small fin rose vertically at the tip of the car's nose.\n\nVeteran drag racer Arfons was to drive the car for the record attempt, but a month before the scheduled run, during initial testing on a dragstrip with Arfons outside the car observing, the two braking parachutes ripped loose and the car \"knifed through a chain link fence at 200 mph (320 km/h), ripped across a highway, jumped two four-foot (1.2 m) ditches and plunged 75 feet (25 m) into a wooded area. Only 300 feet (100 m) of fence that had become entangled in her rear wheels stopped her\", according to Green. Although the driver was unhurt \"when Walt saw the Wingfoot heading for oblivion he had a heart attack on the spot\" and was briefly hospitalized, but released himself in order to repair the car. In the process, he damaged the ligaments in one hand, completely eliminating whatever small chance remained of his driving the car for the record. At this point there was no time to find another driver, and Green, who had never driven over 130 miles per hour (210 km/h) in his life, was the logical choice because of his familiarity with the mechanics of the vehicle. At Bonneville, Green began his Land Speed Record career by easing the car around \"the parking area\" like any student driver. On his first timed run he hit 236 miles per hour (380 km/h), but \"I hadn't fully anticipated that I'd have the feeling of rattling and banging down the black line like a rock in a can...the salt was a little rough...\". \"at 250 mph [400 km/h] the upholstery of the seat hugged me like a pressure suit, at 275 [440 km/h] I had the weird feeling it was snowing in the cockpit!\" The \"snow\" was flakes of salt which were being sucked into the cockpit by the vagaries of the aerodynamics; aside from being distracting, this brought up fears that the air pressure might crack or even completely shatter or remove the cockpit at speed. At higher speed, the short front axle began to oscillate, necessitating an increase in the damping of the shock absorbers; but after that last modification, Green found that he could steer with one hand; \"I never drifted more than 8 feet [2.4 m] from the black line\". The first run using the afterburner sent the car well over 300 miles per hour (480 km/h); when it was shut down Green felt as if he had \"slammed on the brakes, but the airspeed indicator showed that I was still accelerating under regular engine power\". That run hit 335 miles per hour (539 km/h) before salt crystals drawn into the engine threw it off balance. Having only three days total booked at Bonneville, the team had to vacate for Craig Breedlove, who set the record at 400 miles per hour (644 km/h); leading to an intense debate within the FIA about what constituted a car, resulting in the unusual decision that Breedlove's three-wheeled jet vehicle was actually a motorcycle.\n\nIn 1964, Wingfoot Express returned to Bonneville for a week, but the engine never regained the strength shown in their earliest runs, and struggled to pick up speed. Even when another engine was installed, success eluded them. Finally, Walt's brother and longtime competitor Art Arfons, a brilliant intuitive mechanic for both piston and jet engines, suggested that the 17 inch (432 mm) opening of the \"clamshells\" on the engine exhaust was the problem. \"it was a 1/16 turn of the idle adjustment on the engine and opening of the afterburner clamshells to 19 inches (483 mm) that brought the engine up to record performance\", Green recalls. Green also removed some of the sheet metal around the engine intake, later realizing that in the process he had destroyed the Goodyear logo. But the Wingfoot Express now easily hit 299 miles per hour (481 km/h) with no afterburner. On the last day they had available, October 2, 1964, at 4:06 pm, a short blast of afterburner brought the car to a recorded 406 mph (653 km/h), but the official record required the run be \"backed up\" in the opposite direction. The lateness of the hour left no time for refueling, so the decision was made to save fuel by not making a full run over the entire distance for acceleration, and the car started the return run only 2 miles (3 km) away from the timing lights. Green and the car accelerated like a rocket, recording a remarkable speed of 420.07 miles per hour (676.04 km/h), thus averaging 413.20 miles per hour (664.98 km/h) in both directions and setting a new record not quite 2% faster than Breedlove's.\n\nWithin 3 days, however, the record had been reset by Art Arfons. Although the final record run had demonstrated that Wingfoot Express clearly had much more speed available, Green decided to not push his luck and retired from competition, returning to his regular job. He is today a vice president of the company, which used to produce torque wrenches for Snap-On. He continues to maintain contact with Arfons and they meet periodically. \"I did offer to help Walt with his rocket car but the design was his own\". \n\nWalt Arfons went on alone to build Wingfoot Express 2 using solid-fuel rockets; peak power and acceleration was enormous, but could not be maintained long enough to set a record over the measured distance. Wingfoot Express 2 started with 10 JATO rocket bottles, and made an unofficial speed record of 605 mph with 25 JATO bottles in 1965. \n\nNeither knows what happened to the original Wingfoot Express, or where it might now be.\n"}
{"id": "1857676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857676", "title": "R323 (South Africa)", "text": "R323 (South Africa)\n\nThe R323 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Riversdale in the south with Laingsburg in the north.\n\nIts southern origin is from the N2 at Riversdale. It traverses the town, and leaves heading north. It runs through Garcia's Pass and eventually reaches an intersection with the R62 near Ladismith. From this intersection, it is briefly co-signed with the R62 heading east, before again diverging, heading west-north-west. After about 50km it loops around to eventually head east before veering north towards Laingsburg. Before reaching the town, it crosses the Rooinek Pass. The route ends in Laingsburg at the N1.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857678", "title": "R324 (South Africa)", "text": "R324 (South Africa)\n\nThe R324 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Barrydale to the north with Port Beaufort and Witsand to the south.\n\nOriginating from the R62 at Barrydale it heads south over the Tradouw Pass. At the end of the pass, it reaches a t-junction. The western route is signed as the R324 and the eastern as the R322. The westerly R324 passes through Suurbraak and then reaches the N2. It is co-signed briefly heading east. Diverging from the N2, the route then heads south-south-east to Port Beaufort. Here the R322 rejoins the route. The R324 then runs east to end at the neighbouring village of Witsand.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857680", "title": "Mashallah", "text": "Mashallah\n\nMashallah (, '), also spelled mashaAllah or ma sha Allah, is an Arabic phrase that means \"God has willed it\" and is used to express appreciation, joy, praise, or thankfulness for an event or person that was just mentioned. It is also a common expression used in the Muslim world to wish for God's protection of something or someone from the evil eye.\n\nThe triconsonantal root of \"\" is šīn-yāʼ-hamza \"to will\", a doubly-weak root. The literal English translation is \"God has willed it\", the present perfect of God's will accentuating the essential Islamic doctrine of predestination.\n\nThe exact meaning of \"Mashallah\" is \"what God wished has happened\"; it is used to say something good has happened, used in the past tense. \"Inshallah\", literally \"if God wills\", is used similarly but to refer to a future event.\n\n\"Masha Allah\" can be used to congratulate someone. It is a reminder that although the person is being congratulated, ultimately God willed it. In some cultures, people may utter \"Masha Allah\" in the belief that it may help protect them from jealousy, the evil eye or a jinn. The phrase has also found its way into the colloquial language of many non-Arab Muslims including Indonesians, Malaysians, Persians, Turks, Kurds, Bosniaks, Azerbaijanis, Chechens, Avars, Circassians, Bangladeshis, Tatars, Albanians, Urdu-speaking South Asians, and others.\n\nIt is also used by some Christians and others in areas which were ruled by the Ottoman Empire: Serbians, Bulgarians, Christian Albanians and Macedonians say \"машала\" (\"mašala\"), often in the sense of \"a job well done\"; also some Armenians, Pontian Greeks (descendants of those that came from Turkey), and Cypriot Greeks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857681", "title": "R325 (South Africa)", "text": "R325 (South Africa)\n\nThe R325 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Griquatown to Upington and Kuruman.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857683", "title": "Penny Johnson", "text": "Penny Johnson\n\nPenelope Jane Johnson CBE (born 23 June 1956) has been Director of the Government Art Collection since 1997.\n\nShe was educated at St. Helen's School, the University of East Anglia (BA, 1978) and the University of Manchester. She was made a CBE in the 2010 New Year Honours.\n"}
{"id": "1857687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857687", "title": "R326 (South Africa)", "text": "R326 (South Africa)\n\nThe R326 is a regional route in the Western Cape province of South Africa that connects Stanford in the south-west to the N2 highway between Caledon and Riviersonderend to the north-east. It begins at an intersection with the R43 at Stanford and runs east up the valley of the Klein River and over the Akkedisberg Pass. Once over the pass it crosses the R316 and continues north-east to end at the N2 west of Riviersonderend.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857689", "title": "R327 (South Africa)", "text": "R327 (South Africa)\n\nThe R327 is a Regional Route in South Africa. Its northern origin is from the R62 near Ladismith. From there it winds generally south-east. It goes over Cloete's Pass before reaching Herbertsdale. On the other side of the town it crosses the Du Plessis Pass. It then reaches its south-eastern terminus at the N2 near Mossel Bay.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857691", "title": "R328 (South Africa)", "text": "R328 (South Africa)\n\nThe R328 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Mossel Bay in the south to Prince Albert Road in the north via Prince Albert, and Oudtshoorn. \n\nIts northern origin at the N1 at Prince Albert Road. It heads south-east to Prince Albert. Just before the town, it intersects with the southern origin of the R353. Leaving Prince Albert, it heads south. It intersects with the west origin of the R407 as it approaches the Swartberg Mountains. After the intersection it enters the Swartberg Pass. On the other side, it veers east-south-east. Just before it again heads south, it gives off a short northern road to the Cango Caves. It then heads south into the Schoemanspoort Pass. On the other side, it continues south to Oudtshoorn. At Oudtshoorn, it meets an intersection with the N12 and R62. Along with the R62, it is then signed as the western road (the southern becomes the N12/R62 and the eastern the N12). Just outside the town, the route diverges from the R62 and continues in a direction just west of south. It crosses the Outeniqua mountains at Robinson Pass to reach its terminus at the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857695", "title": "George Dalaras", "text": "George Dalaras\n\nGeorgios (Giorgos) Dalaras ( and ) (29 September 1949), is a Greek musician and singer of international fame. He is widely considered among the most prominent figures of Greek contemporary musical culture, with more than 70 personal albums and with sales of more than 15 million records to date. He has been selected as a Goodwill Ambassador for the UN Refugee Agency. He was born in Nea Kokinia, Piraeus. His father was Loukas Daralas (difference in surname spelling), a singer of rebetiko.\n\nDalaras' first song, \"Προσμονή\" (\"Prosmoni\", \"expectation\"), was recorded in 1967. The single never reached any popular status, in fact it was barely released. Dalaras even had to struggle to get into the studio, as ironically the day he began his studio career was the day that the Greek military junta took over the streets of Athens, and the roads were littered with tanks. After several appearances on various recordings as a guest singer, his debut album was released in early 1969, a self-titled album released on the Minos label. The recording included many compositions by Stavros Kouyioumtzis, who in the early years proved a fountain of help towards Dalaras achieving musical success. As Dalaras has said in various interviews, he owes the fact that he became a singer to Kouyioumtzis, who composed Dalaras' first songs. His relation with Kouyioumtzis remained friendly until the sudden death of the composer due to a heart attack in March 2005.\n\nThe biggest hit of the record, \"Που 'ναι τα χρόνια\" (\"Pou 'ne ta chronia\", \"Where are the years?\"), is still sung today, and is regarded as a mainstay in Dalaras' large repertoire. In 1970, he released the album \"Να 'τανε το 21 \" (\"Na 'tane to ikosi-ena\", \"If only it were '21\", that is, 1821, a reference to the Greek War of Independence). The album was immediately more successful than his debut LP and included hits such as \"Na 'tane to 21'\", \"Κάπου νυχτώνει\" (\"Kapou nichtoni\", \"Somewhere the night falls\"), and an instrumental version of \"Pou 'ne ta chronia\". The album was made up entirely of a compositions by Stavros Kouyioumtzis. The songs were mainly reinterpretations, as was common in the late 60s for new Greek singers; however, not all the songs on their first release (most of them on the smaller yet more distinctive LYRA label) had proved successful, and in many instances, even now, many people in Greece believe that the Dalaras songs are originals and not cover versions.\n\nIn 1972, Dalaras, along with singer Haris Alexiou, received his big break in the Greek music industry when their LP \"Μικρά Ασία\" (\"Mikra Asia\", \"Asia Minor\") went gold, his first album to do so. The songs were written by Apostolos Kaldaras, a heavyweight in the laïkó scene of the 50s and 60s, who at this time decided to enter the political fray of Greek music. Dalaras and Alexiou were immediately thrown into the limelight. The LP was also recently re-released in both CD and limited edition LP format by Minos-EMI. The \"Mikra Asia\" LP was followed up by \"Βυζαντινός Εσπερινός\" (Vizantinos Esperinos, \"Byzantine Vespers\") in 1973. The album consisted again of Dalaras and Haris Alexiou, and was composed by Apostolos Kaldaras, however the lyrics were by the emerging Lefteris Papadopoulos, who had written Dalaras' first official recording. This was the last time that Dalaras officially worked with Apostolos Kaldaras in the studio, however, they worked together in live performances. Unlike \"Mikra Asia\", \"Vizantinos Esperinos\" did not meet with exceptional sales, and is somewhat 'forgotten' in the repertoire of Dalaras's songs.\n\nAfter several LPs and further collaborations with Kouyioumtzis, Kaldaras, Manos Loïzos, Mikis Theodorakis and others, Dalaras decided to release his own renditions of rebetiko songs on the double LP \"50 Χρόνια Ρεμπέτικο Τραγούδι\" (Peninta Chronia Rebetiko Tragoudi, \"50 Years of Rebetiko songs\"), released 1975. The recording proved an immediate success, despite the toning down of the lyrics. However, as a result, a new movement was set to take place in Greek music, and the once forgotten \"rebetes\" were finding themselves performing, in some cases for the first time in 30 to 40 years. He followed up this work with an LP in 1980, \"Ρεμπέτικα της Κατοχής\" (Rebetika tis Katohis, \" Rebetiko (songs) of the occupation\"), which was a more gritty and meaty release, more faithful to the tone of the original rebetika as heard in the 1930s. However, again references to drugs were cut out, and only mentioned in passing. Unlike the previous double LP, this one contained some of the original musicians, Bayianteras and Genitsaris in particular making an appearance on the album.\n\nSince the 1960s, Dalaras has recorded more than 120 records. He has sung numerous different Greek music styles (e.g. rebetiko, laïkó, Latin, pop), Israeli and Arabic music, and religious music. He has collaborated with many contemporary Greek composers, including Mikis Theodorakis, Stavros Kouyioumtzis, Manos Loizos, Apostolos Kaldaras, Stavros Xarhakos, Manos Hadjidakis and Christos Nikolopoulos. He also discovered and supported young Areti Ketime, producing her first album. Apart from his prominent singing career, Dalaras is considered to be one a talented musician as he plays most of the stringed instruments of a Greek folk band with great success, including the guitar, bouzouki, baglamas, tzouras and outi. He has accompanied Al Di Meola and Paco de Lucía, among others. Dalaras' most important projects include collaborations with several international singers, including British singer Sting, releasing together a duet of Sting's song \"Mad About You\". He has also collaborated with Pyx Lax, Bruce Springsteen, Jethro Tull, Yehuda Poliker, Emma Shapplin, Goran Bregovic, Apostolis Anthimos, Dulce Pontes, Andriana Babali and many others. Dalaras moved from his homestay label of Minos EMI in favour of Universal Music Greece in 2006, thus ending an almost 40 year collaboration.\n\nIn 2000, Dalaras discovered a new local orchestra that specialized at traditional \"Smirneiko\" (from Smyrna) and \"Rebetiko\" songs. The orchestra's name was \"Εστουδιαντίνα Νέας Ιωνίας\" (Estoudiantina Neas Ionias and it came from Nea Ionia, a city near Volos. Dalaras pulled Estoudiantina in the light of publicity and make it known to the Greek public. Since then Estoudiantina has become one of the most important and famous orchestras in Greece. Estoudiantina's repertoire now also includes \"Modern Greek\", \"Greek Laiko\", and \"Mediterranean\".\n\nDalaras is a Greek traveler, an exceptional interpreter, a restless musician who deeply believes in the individual character of Greek music, in its power and its competence and, at the same time, in its global quality. His relentless pursuits journeyed Greece to the end of the world while, his conviction that the multinational model is based on the mutual possession of the artistic heritage has fused his interpretation abilities with the dexterity of a number of the most renowned orchestras of the world.\n\nIn his almost 50-year musical career, Dalaras has performed in thousands of concerts, and in 1980, entered the era of the live Greek club. Two historical concerts occurred in the Athens Olympic Stadium, attended by more than 160,000 people. This was the largest attendance at a Greek concert, to the point where \"Rolling Stone\" magazine commented that Dalaras was responsible for the birth of the Stadium era in Greece.\n\nDalaras personal albums total beyond 70. He has sold more than 15,000,000 records in his career and is regarded as one of the biggest names in contemporary Greek music. He has toured extensively throughout the world and was even invited to sing for Nelson Mandela on his birthday.\n\nHis live albums, including tributes to Vassilis Tsitsanis and Markos Vamvakaris, all reached multi platinum sales, and resulted in being among the top 10 releases of 2005. In December 2005, he released a live recording called \"Μεσόγειος 30ος 40ος Παράλληλος\" (Mediterranean 30th 40th parallel) with various renditions of Greek, Italian, Israeli and Arabic songs, and famous musicians from Hebrew and Arabic backgrounds, which gained multi platinum status.\n\nDalaras had been scheduled to perform a concert on the closing night of the second International Orthodox Youth Conference held in Istanbul from 11 to 15 July 2007. The event, organised by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, had drawn the ire of the Turkish press and Turkish nationalist politicians who filed complaints to the Governorship of Istanbul to revoke the licence for the concert it had issued, and the concert was abruptly cancelled by the Turkish authorities of the Governorship of Istanbul on the grounds that the country's Archaeological Service did not permit the use of the planned venue, the 15th century Rumeli Hisar castle. The site had previously been used for international theatre festivals and for an international dance festival, until its use was prohibited by the Archaeological Service. The last-minute cancellation of the concert attracted strong media coverage and criticism in neighbouring Greece.\n\nDalaras was born George Da\"ral\"as, son of the rembetiko singer Loukas Daralas. He subsequently anagrammatized his name to Da\"lar\"as. Since 1983 Dalaras is married to Anna Ragousi, also his manager and former politician who served with the PASOK government in 2009 and 2011. They have one daughter, Georgianna. Dalaras is a collector of musical instruments and in his spare time he goes fishing and traveling on his motorcycle, being a big motorsports fan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857696", "title": "JDOM", "text": "JDOM\n\nJDOM is an open-source Java-based document object model for XML that was designed specifically for the Java platform so that it can take advantage of its language features. JDOM integrates with Document Object Model (DOM) and Simple API for XML (SAX), supports XPath and XSLT. It uses external parsers to build documents. JDOM was developed by Jason Hunter and Brett McLaughlin starting in March 2000. It has been part of the Java Community Process as JSR 102, though that effort has since been abandoned.\n\nSuppose the file \"foo.xml\" contains this XML document:\n<shop name=\"shop for geeks\" location=\"Tokyo, Japan\">\n</shop>\nOne can parse the XML file into a tree of Java objects with JDOM, like so:\nSAXBuilder builder = new SAXBuilder();\nDocument doc = builder.build(new FileInputStream(\"foo.xml\"));\nElement root = doc.getRootElement();\n// root.getName() is \"shop\"\n// root.getAttributeValue(\"name\") is \"shop for geeks\"\n// root.getAttributeValue(\"location\") is \"Tokyo, Japan\"\n// root.getChildren() is a java.util.List object that contains 3 Element objects.\nIn case you do not want to create the document object from any file or any input stream, you can create the document object against the element.\nElement root = new Element(\"shop\"); // here <shop></shop> is the root\nDocument doc = new Document(root); // create a new document with the supplied element as the root\nAs a converse, one can construct a tree of elements, then generate an XML file from it, as in the following example:\nElement root = new Element(\"shop\");\nroot.setAttribute(\"name\", \"shop for geeks\");\nroot.setAttribute(\"location\", \"Tokyo, Japan\");\nElement item1 = new Element(\"computer\");\nitem1.setAttribute(\"name\", \"iBook\");\nitem1.setAttribute(\"price\", \"1200$\");\nroot.addContent(item1);\n// perform similar steps for other elements\nXMLOutputter outputter = new XMLOutputter();\noutputter.output(new Document(root), new FileOutputStream (\"foo2.xml\"));\n"}
{"id": "1857699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857699", "title": "Fiona Foley", "text": "Fiona Foley\n\nFiona Foley (born 1964) is a contemporary Indigenous Australian artist from Badtjala, Fraser Island, Queensland. Foley is regarded for her activity as an academic, cultural and community leader and for co-founding the Boomalli Aboriginal Artists Co-operative. Her practice encompasses many media including painting, drawing, sculpture, photography, textiles and installation. Her work addresses contemporary political issues facing Indigenous Australians and is held in the public collections of many Australian state, national and university collections including the Cruthers Collection of Women's Art as well as the British Museum. Foley's work has toured internationally and featured in several major exhibitions including \"Global Feminisms\" at the Brooklyn Museum and \"Aboriginal Art in Modern Worlds\" at Russia's Hermitage Museum.\n\nFiona Foley was born in Maryborough in 1964 and raised in nearby Hervey Bay and (briefly) Mount Isa. Foley attended high school in Sydney with her siblings, and then attained a Certificate of Arts from East Sydney Technical College in 1983. She was one of the first Indigenous students to attend the Sydney College of the Arts, Sydney University completing a Bachelor of Visual Arts in 1986. The following year she completed a Diploma of Education at Sydney University.\n\nFoley's mother, Shirley Foley, was born in Urangan and was a member of the Wondunna clan of the Badtjala people who are indigenous to Thoorgine (Fraser Island). In 1988, Shirley Foley established the Thoorgine Educational and Culture Centre on the island. She spent twenty years researching and recording Badtjala language and culture, culminating in the publication of a Badtjala/English dictionary. Her mother's cultural pride and high regard for education have influenced Foley throughout her career. Her father, Gary Foley, is an Aboriginal activist and actor who collaborated on and featured in the 1977 film \"Backroads\".\n\nSince 1985, Foley has had significant engagement with Indigenous communities in central Australia, most notably Maningrida and Ramingining in Arnhem Land. Foley and her mother visited Maningrida in 1992, facilitating a cultural exchange between locals and Badtjala people. Before this, Foley lived and worked in Ramingining for several months. These trips greatly informed her practice, provided further insights into Aboriginal culture, and inspired her to be a cultural leader. In 1995, Foley permanently moved back to Hervey Bay to be with family and take part in Native Title negotiations regarding a portion of Fraser Island. As of 2014, this claim has been successful.\n\nIn 2017 Foley completed a Doctorate of Philosophy. Her research focused on The Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act, 1897. A number of her artworks have referenced this act and its effect on the Badtjala people.\n\nCommunity engagement is pertinent to Foley's art practice. She contributed to the emergence of urban Australian Indigenous Art through her participation in the seminal Koori '84 group exhibition. Following this, she was involved in the foundation of several artist co-operatives and initiatives. These include the Boomalli Aboriginal Artists Co-operative and artist exchanges and collaborative workshops between Badtjala people and artists from Maningrida & Ramingining. More recently Foley’s involvement in the arts community has extended to curatorial roles. In 1994 she co-curated Tyerabarrbowaryaou II - I shall never become a white man for the Havana Biennial alongside Djon Mundine. This was the first international exhibition to be curated by Indigenous Australians.\n\nPolitical issues are central to Foley’s practice. Her works in public art and installation aim to examine and redress previously disregarded histories of colonisation in Australia. One such example is \"Edge of the Trees\", a 1995 collaboration with Janet Laurence - the first major public artwork by both an Indigenous and a non-Indigenous Australian artist. In 1995 it was awarded the Lloyd Rees Award for Urban Design. The work utilises both Western and Indigenous iconographies to evidence historical conflict - both on its site (the Museum of Sydney, formerly Australia’s first Government House) and across Australia. Pukumani or tutini (funerary) poles contrast Sydney’s urban landscape and memorialise the violence that shaped early interactions with settlers on the city’s shore.\n\nFoley’s \"Land Deal\" (1995) and \"Lie of the Land\" (1997) serve as evidence and a reminder of John Batman’s now-invalidated treaty for 600,000 acres of Wurundjeri land (where Melbourne currently stands), and its basis on false premises. Similarly, \"Witnessing to Silence\" (2004) remembers all known massacres of Indigenous people within Queensland, listing 94 such sites. The corpses on these sites were hidden either by burning or submerging in bodies of water. Foley engaged in some chicanery to ensure the work’s installation, telling its commissioners (Brisbane Magistrate’s Court) that the work was about sites of natural phenomena - fire and flood. The work’s true meaning was only unveiled once installed.  2009’s \"Black Opium\" (a permanent installation across multiple rooms at the State Library of Queensland) references The Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897 and the impacts of the British colonial opium trade on both Chinese and Indigenous communities. By exhibiting these works within the context of Western cultural institutions, Foley aims to evidence and embed oppressive Australian histories where they have previously been excluded.\n\nAt other times Foley’s work strikes a more playful or satirical political tone. Her appropriation of ethnographic imagery and 'Aboriginalia' (kitsch objects depicting Indigenous Australians in a culturally insensitive manner) serve to critique these claims to the representation of Indigenous people. Positioning herself as both subject and author, Foley rectifies power imbalances and reconstructs an oppressive history. Works such as 1994’s \"Native Blood\" and \"Badtjala Woman\" demonstrate an aim to undermine and challenge the historical and 'scientific' sanctity of such images, whilst highlighting the West’s idealisation, sexualisation and exploitation of Indigenous culture as an exotic aesthetic.\n\nConnection to place features heavily throughout Foley’s practice. Themes of nature - sand and sea -  pervade pictorial works and foreground the significance of Foley’s ancestral ties to Thoorgine (Fraser Island). \"The Legends of Moonie Jarl\", a book written and illustrated in the 1960s by Foley’s aunt and uncle, relates numerous Badtjala creation stories that describe the animals, vegetation and weather patterns of the island. This text, her mother and her stints in Arnhem Land are considered major reference points for Foley’s 2D practice. \"Men's Business\" (1987–89), \"Catching Tuna\" (1992) and \"Salt Water Islands\" (1992) depict Foley’s experience during her time visiting the remote communities of Maningrida and Ramingining in the Northern Territory. They demonstrate the minimalism, flatness and \"symbolic abstraction\" that is characteristic of Foley’s pastels and paintings. Typically making use of an aerial perspective, these works privilege meditative spatiality over didactic naturalistic representations. Significantly, this counters historical ethnographic and spectatorial depictions of Indigenous culture by settlers. Contrarily, Foley’s work impresses a sense of myth, memory and dream - both personal and collective. Politically, this practice is an affirmative reclamation of symbols, narratives, cultures and histories that have previously been appropriated or erased.\n\nFoley is represented by Andrew Baker Art Dealer, Brisbane and Niagara Galleries, Melbourne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857700", "title": "Cashes Green", "text": "Cashes Green\n\nCashes Green is a substantial residential area in the civil parish of Cainscross on the outskirts of Stroud, in Gloucestershire, England. Although the spelling \"Cashes Green\" is usual, and locally regarded as \"correct\", the alternative Cashe's Green also occurs, and can be seen on old ordnance survey maps, and 1970s road signs for example\n\nThe original small village of Cashes Green, situated on the southern slope of Randwick Hill, underwent massive expansion in the second half of the 20th century with the addition of both council and private housing estates. It is now contiguous with the neighbouring settlements of Ebley, Cainscross and Paganhill and hence with the conurbation of Stroud itself.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857701", "title": "R329 (South Africa)", "text": "R329 (South Africa)\n\nThe R329 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Willowmore in the west with Wolwefontein (a railway siding) at the R75 (which continues on to Uitenhage.)\n\nThe routes western origin starts just north of Willowmore, from the N9. It heads east, along the northern edge of the Baviaanskloof, and, after about 30 kilometres gives off the R337 heading north-east. The route continues for another 60 kilometres to reach Steytlerville. After another 30 kilometres of easterly travel the route reaches the southern terminus of the R338. From this junction to the routes ends is a further 25 kilometres at the R75.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857706", "title": "R330 (South Africa)", "text": "R330 (South Africa)\n\nThe R330 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Cape St. Francis on the south coast with Hankey to the north via Humansdorp.\n\nIts northern origin is an intersection with the R331 at Hankey. The route heads south-south-west. Just before reaching the N2 it meets the southern origin of the R332. Crossing the N2, it reaches Humansdorp, where it meets the R102 at a staggered interchange. I then heads south, past St. Francis Bay to end at the village of Cape St. Francis. \n\n"}
{"id": "1857708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857708", "title": "Takatori Station (Hyōgo)", "text": "Takatori Station (Hyōgo)\n\nTakatori Catholic Church designed by Shigeru Ban, internationally known Japanese architect, is a fifteen-minute walk from Takatori Station.\n\n!colspan=5|West Japan Railway Company (JR West)\n\n"}
{"id": "1857709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857709", "title": "R331 (South Africa)", "text": "R331 (South Africa)\n\nThe R331 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the R102 and N2 near Thornhill in the east with the R332 near Baviaanskloof Nature Reserve in the west via Hankey and Patensie.\n\nFrom route's western origin at the R332 it heads east into Patensie. Leaving the town, it heads south-east, reaching Hankey, where it meets the R330's northern origin. It heads east-south-east out the town to intersect the N2 and then end immediately afterward at the R102.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857710", "title": "2008 in sports", "text": "2008 in sports\n\n2008 in sports describes the year's events in world sport.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nGrand Tours:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSteeplechases\nFlat races\n\n\n\nThe following is a list of major noteworthy MMA events by month.\n\nJanuary\n\n1/19 – UFC 80: Rapid Fire\n\n1/23 – \n\n1/25 – ShoXC 4\n\nFebruary\n\n2/1 – \n\n2/2 – UFC 81: Breaking Point\n\n2/13 – WEC 32: Condit vs. Prater\n\n2/16 – \n\n2/23 – \n\n2/29 – IFL: Las Vegas ()\n\nMarch\n\n3/1 – UFC 82: Pride of a Champion\n\n3/5 – ()\n\n3/15 – DREAM.1 ()\n\n3/21 – ShoXC 5\n\n3/26 – WEC 33: Marshall vs. Stann\n\n3/29 – \n\nApril\n\n4/2 – \n\n4/4 – IFL: New Blood, New Battles 2\n\n4/5 – ShoXC 6\n\n4/11 YAMMA Pit Fighting 1 ()\n\n4/19 – UFC 83: Serra vs. St-Pierre 2\n\n4/29 – DREAM.2\n\nMay\n\n5/11 – DREAM.3\n\n5/16 – IFL: Connecticut ()\n\n5/18 – \n\n5/24 – UFC 84: Ill Will\n\n5/31 – \n\nJune\n\n6/1 – WEC 34: Faber vs. Pulver\n\n6/7 – UFC 85: Bedlam\n\n6/8 – \n\n6/14 – \n\n6/15 – DREAM.4\n\n6/21 – \n\n6/27 – \n\nJuly\n\n7/5 – UFC 86: Jackson vs. Griffin\n\n7/19 – \n\n7/19 – ()\n\n7/21 – DREAM.5\n\n7/26 – \n\nAugust\n\n8/3 – WEC 35: Condit vs. Miura\n\n8/9 – UFC 87: Seek And Destroy\n\n8/15 – ShoXC 7\n\n8/24 – \n\nSeptember\n\n9/6 – UFC 88: Breakthrough\n\n9/13 – \n\n9/17 – \n\n9/20 – \n\n9/23 – DREAM.6\n\n9/26 – ShoXC 8\n\n9/28 – \n\nOctober\n\n10/3 – \n\n10/4 – \n\n10/10 – ShoXC 9 ()\n\n10/18 – UFC 89: Bisping vs. Leben\n\n10/25 – UFC 90: Silva vs. Côté\n\nNovember\n\n11/1 – \n\n11/5 – WEC 36: Faber vs. Brown\n\n11/15 – UFC 91: Couture vs. Lesnar\n\n11/21 – \n\nDecember\n\n12/3 – WEC 37: Torres vs. Tapia\n\n12/10 – \n\n12/13 – \n\n12/27 – UFC 92: The Ultimate 2008\n\n12/31 – Dynamite!! 2008 ()\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRafael Nadal claimed the World No. 1 ranking for the first time, on August 18, replacing Roger Federer\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857712", "title": "Zoltán Kemény", "text": "Zoltán Kemény\n\nZoltán Kemény (21 March 1907 - 14 June 1965) was a sculptor.\n\nKemény was born in Bănița, Austro-Hungarian Empire (present-day Romania). He was the only Hungarian to win a prize at the Venice Biennale. He died in Zurich, Switzerland, aged 58.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857713", "title": "R332 (South Africa)", "text": "R332 (South Africa)\n\nThe R332 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Willowmore with the R330 and the N2 near Humansdorp.\n\nIts western origin is the N9 just south of Willowmore. From there it heads south-east along the southern edge of the Baviaanskloof. It crosses the Nuwekloof Pass and thereafter heads east-south-east. About 90 km after the pass, the road passes the Kouga Dam on the south before reaching an intersection with the western origin of the R331. From the intersection, it heads south-south-east to end at the R330 just before it reaches the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857715", "title": "R334 (South Africa)", "text": "R334 (South Africa)\n\nThe R334 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N2 west of Port Elizabeth to the N2 at Coega north of Port Elizabeth via Uitenhage.\n\nFrom the R334's eastern origin it leaves the N2 heading west. It runs through the northern parts of Motherwell township, where it meets the southern origin of the R335, before crossing the R75 to enter Uitenhage. In Uitenhage's city centre, it meets the north-western origins of the M19 and M10. It leaves the city to the south-west, passing KwaNobuhle. It ends at the R102 to the west of Port Elizabeth, near an interchange with the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857717", "title": "Party of Estonian Christian Democrats", "text": "Party of Estonian Christian Democrats\n\nThe Party of Estonian Christian Democrats (\"Erakond Eesti Kristlikud Demokraadid\"), formerly known as the Estonian Christian People's Party (\"Eesti Kristlik Rahvapartei\") was a political party in Estonia, which is not represented in the Riigikogu (parliament). In 2012, the party was declared bankrupt by a court, therefore it cannot participate in elections.\n\nIt is a Christian-conservative party which is opposed to the European Constitution and campaigned against Estonia joining the EU. The party is a member of the European Christian Political Movement (EPCM).\n\nAt the 2003 legislative elections, the party won 1.1% of the popular vote (5,275 votes) and no seats. In the 2007 parliamentary election, this improved to 9,443 (1.7%), but still fell far short of the 5% threshold.\n\nIn the 2002 local council elections, the EKRP was elected in 3 local councils out of 247 and collected 7 seats.\nIn Kuressaare it collected 1 seat out of 21 (5.6% share of votes; 294 votes), in Pihtla Parish 2 seats out of 11 (24.7% share of votes; 163 votes) and in Püssi 4 seats out of 13 (31.8% share of votes; 191 votes).\n\nIn the 2005 local council elections the EKRP took part in 13 local elections out of 227 and collected 3 seats. In the whole country, the party collected 1799 votes which made up 0.36% of all votes. The Party won a seat in Kuressaare (1 seat out of 21; 5.4% share of votes; 264 votes) and Pihtla parish (2 seats out of 11; 18.3% share of votes; 109 votes)\n\nThe party took part, but didn't collect any seats in these councils:\nIn the town of Püssi the party didn't take part in the elections and lost its four seats. In local elections in Estonia the threshold is 5% of valid votes cast in the council.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857719", "title": "R335 (South Africa)", "text": "R335 (South Africa)\n\nThe R335 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Port Elizabeth in the south to Somerset East to the north via Addo.\n\nIts southern origin is the R334 just north of Port Elizabeth. It heads north to reach Addo. Just after passing the town, the R336 is given off to the west. From Addo onwards, the town follows the western border of the Addo Elephant National Park. The next major intersection, is with the R342 which heads east into the park. After leaving the park behind, the route reaches a staggered junction with the R400. It continues north for a further 60 kilometres to reach Somerset East, where the route ends intersecting the R63.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857722", "title": "R336 (South Africa)", "text": "R336 (South Africa)\n\nThe R336 is a Regional Route in South Africa. It runs east/west. The western origin is the R75. From there, it passes through Kirkwood and ends at Addo at the R335.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857724", "title": "R337 (South Africa)", "text": "R337 (South Africa)\n\nThe R337 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Cradock and the R329 road (South Africa) heading towards Willowmore via Jansenville.\n\nFrom its northern origin in Cradock at the R390, it heads south-west, passing to the south of the Mountain Zebra National Park. It heads through Swaershoek Pass, and on the other side, it reaches a T-junction with an unsigned route. The R337 is signed as the western route, which eventually bends south to Pearston. There it becomes cosigned with the intersecting R63 before continuing out the town heading south-west. It then reaches the R75. It becomes cosigned, and the routes head through the Soutpansnek pass to reach Jansenville. At Jansenville, the route leaves the R75 heading east-south-east to Klipplaat. At that town, it intersects the R338 at a staggered junction. After leaving Klipplaat, the route enters the Swanepoelspoort Pass before reaching its terminus at the R329.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857725", "title": "Estonian Independence Party", "text": "Estonian Independence Party\n\nThe Estonian Independence Party (, EIP) is a far-right political party in Estonia. The party, founded in 1999, is a successor to the Estonian Future Party. One of the principal aims of the party is the withdrawal of Estonia from the European Union. The party is currently without parliamentary representation.\n\nThe EIP's political philosophy promotes a doctrine of “Estonia as a neo-autarkic geopolitical space” and an associated geopolitical imperative of neutrality between the East and the West.\n\nThe party programme states that Estonia is extraordinarily rich in natural resources (much of these remain latent) and is situated in an important geopolitical space. Thus, the party is also against Estonia belonging to the European Union, which they accuse of having neocolonised Estonia. The party recommended rejecting International Monetary Fund suggestions. The party regards Setomaa as a part of Estonia and not Russia.\n\nThe party's predecessor, Estonian Future Party (\"Tuleviku Eesti Erakond\") was founded in 1994. In 1999, it was renamed to Estonian Independence Party.\n\nIn 2001, the party called for closer relations with Russia and said that the country should have a bigger say in defining Estonia's future.\n\nEIP took part in the 2003 movement against Estonia joining the European Union.\n\nEIP candidates gained 2,705 votes, amounting to 0.55% of the national vote, in the 2003 parliamentary election. In the 2007 elections, the party's vote dropped to 1,274 votes, which was 0.2% of the total. In the 2011 elections, the party's vote increased to 2,571 votes, which was 0.4% of the total.\n\nIn the 2014 European Parliamentary election, the Estonian Independence Party received 4,158 votes, which was 1.3% of the vote.\n\nIn the 2015 parliamentary elections, the party's vote diminished to 1,047 votes, which was 0.2% of the total. The party did not participate in the 2019 parliamentary elections.\n\nOpponents have claimed that the party is a far-right organisation. This has been rejected by the party leader, Sven Sildnik, and a leading board member, Tauno Rahnu, a Tartu Neo-Nazi. One of the former leading members, Risto Teinonen, an ethnic Finn associated with Johan Bäckman, has also been accused of having National Socialist views.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857727", "title": "R338 (South Africa)", "text": "R338 (South Africa)\n\nThe R338 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Aberdeen with the R329 between Steytlerville and its origin at the R75.\n\nIts northern origins is from the N9 at Aberdeen. It heads southeast to Klipplaat. At the town it intersects the R337 at a staggered junction. It leaves the town, and heads south-east to its southern origin at the R329.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857729", "title": "Weissmuller", "text": "Weissmuller\n\nWeissmuller or Weißmüller is a German surname. Notable people with the surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857730", "title": "Constitution Party (Estonia)", "text": "Constitution Party (Estonia)\n\nThe Constitution Party (\"Konstitutsioonierakond\"), known until 11 February 2006 as the Estonian United People's Party (\"Eestimaa Ühendatud Rahvapartei\"), was a political party in Estonia, mainly supported by the Russian minority.\nThe party held 6 seats in the Riigikogu from 1999 to 2003. At the legislative elections of 2 March 2003, it won 2.2% of the popular vote and got no seats. In 2007's election, it fell further to 5,470 votes (1.0%) and again got no seat; Estonian Internal Security Service alleged there was an active promotion campaign by Russian special services.\n\nOn 28 June 2008, it merged with the Estonian Left Party to form the Estonian United Left Party.\n\nAccording to the Estonian Internal Security Service the Constitution Party was a puppet-party supported and controlled by Russia, created by the Russian Foreign Intelligence Service (SVR) as part of their campaign of \"political intelligence manipulations\". Also several members of the party have connections with groups such as Nochnoy Dozor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857731", "title": "R339 (South Africa)", "text": "R339 (South Africa)\n\nThe R339 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Knysna with Uniondale via Avontuur. It is primarily a gravel road and crosses the Langkloof Mountains at Prince Alfred's pass.\n\nFrom its southern origin at the N2 in Knysna, it heads north. It meets the north-western terminus of the R340 and heads into the Prince Alfred's Pass. On the other side, it meets the R62 at Avontuur at a staggered interchange. It then heads into another pass, the Uniondale Poort Pass, before reaching Uniondale. At Uniondale it is cosigned with the N9 heading north-east. It diverges from the N9 just north of the town heading north to its origin at the R341.\n\nThe tarred section of the road between Avontuur and Uniondale was closed in 2007 due to flood damage but was since re-opened. It is advised that this pass be driven in a 4x4 vehicle, or at minimum a vehicle with high ground clearance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857736", "title": "R340 (South Africa)", "text": "R340 (South Africa)\n\nThe R340 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N2 at Keurboomsrivier near Plettenberg Bay in the south-east with the R339 (heading to Uniondale and the R62).\n\n"}
{"id": "1857738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857738", "title": "R341 (South Africa)", "text": "R341 (South Africa)\n\nThe R341 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N12 at De Rust in the west and the N9 between Uniondale and Willowmore in the east. Just before reaching the N9, it meets the northern terminus of the R339\n\n"}
{"id": "1857742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857742", "title": "R342 (South Africa)", "text": "R342 (South Africa)\n\nThe R342 is a Regional Route in South Africa. Its western origin is the R335 north of Addo. It heads east, traversing the Addo Elephant National Park. On the other side, it crosses the N10 and on the other side passes through Paterson. From Paterson, it heads south-east to the N2, where it is cosigned to the east for three kilometres. It then leaves the N2 heading south east to end at the R72.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857746", "title": "R343 (South Africa)", "text": "R343 (South Africa)\n\nThe R343 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects the N2 at Grahamstown in the north and Kenton-on-Sea and the R72 in the south.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857748", "title": "R344 (South Africa)", "text": "R344 (South Africa)\n\nThe R344 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Grahamstown with Dordrecht.\n\nIts northern origin is the R56 at Dordrecht. It heads south-west, crossing the N6 to reach Sterkstroom. Here it crosses the R397 at a staggered junction. It leaves the town heading south-west to reach Tarkastad. At Tarkastad it crosses the R61 at a staggered junction. It leaves the town heading south. It reaches the R63 just west of Adelaide and together they head east into the town. East of the town, the road leaves heading south to its southern terminus at the R350 between Grahamstown and Riebeek East.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857750", "title": "WZAZ", "text": "WZAZ\n\nWZAZ (1400 AM) is a silent radio station in Jacksonville, Florida which formerly carried a Gospel music format. WZAZ went silent on August 20, 2017.\n\n\"WZAZ\" is the name of the fictional Chicago radio station in the movie \"Airplane!\" from 1980. Shortly after repeating its motto, \"Where Disco Lives Forever!,\" the station is knocked off the air when the eponymous airplane clips the station's broadcasting tower while attempting to make an emergency landing. The fictional call letters stood for initials of the writers of the film, David Zucker, Jim Abrahams, and Jerry Zucker.\n\nA fictional television station bearing the \"WZAZ\" callsign appears twice on the side of a news reporter's 1974 Ford Country Squire station wagon as seen at the beginning of the 1976 movie \"The Big Bus\". Briefly in another scene, a reporter's camera is seen at the bus terminal's front doors filming the busses passengers with the same callsign.\n\nA fictional radio station bearing the \"WZAZ\" callsign also appeared in the original movie The Longest Yard released in 1974 with Burt Reynolds.\nA fictional station bearing the \"WZAZ\" callsign appeared in episodes of four sitcoms: \"The Odd Couple\" episode \"The New Car\" (in which Dick Clark had a cameo as a DJ at the radio station); the \"One Day At A Time\" episode \"Peabody's War,\" in which Indianapolis TV station WZAZ conducts a news report on a tenant taking Schneider hostage in Mrs. Romano's apartment; \"The Andy Griffith Show\" episode \"The Mayberry Chef\"; first episode of the fourth season of \"Happy Days\", \"Fonzie Loves Pinky (Part 1)\" and the Weezer's Happy Days music video, \"\"Buddy Holly\"\". Also appeared on a news camera on Death Wish.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857752", "title": "Morobe Province", "text": "Morobe Province\n\nMorobe Province is a province on the northern coast of Papua New Guinea. The provincial capital and largest city is Lae. The province covers 33,705 km², with a population of 674,810 (2011 census), and since the division of Southern Highlands Province in May 2012 it is the most populous province. It includes the Huon Peninsula, the Markham River, and delta, and coastal territories along the Huon Gulf. The province has nine administrative districts. At least 101 languages are spoken, including Kâte and Yabem language. English and Tok Pisin are common languages in the urban areas, and in some areas pidgin forms of German are mixed with the native language.\n\nThe Morobe Province takes its name from former German administration center of \"Morobe\" southeast of the Lae. Under German administration, Morobe (meaning post) was named Adolfhafen for the German Deutsch Neuguinea-Kompagnie's Adolf von Hansemann and German word \"hafen\" (\"heɪfən\") meaning port) and was an outpost of the \"Deutsch Neuguinea-KompagnieDeutsch Neuguinea-Kompagnie\" era. It was located close to the border of British New Guinea.\n\nWhile there have been various attempts to examine the history of Morobe Province, the works of Ian Willis and Phillip Holzknecht in ??? can be summarised below;\n\n\nThe largest part of northeastern New Guinea in German New Guinea (German: \"Deutsch-Neuguinea\")is called Kaiser-Wilhelmsland, named in honour of Wilhelm II, the German Emperor and King of Prussia. From 1884 until 1918, the territory was a protectorate of the German Empire \n\nThe coastline of the northern and eastern portions of New Guinea had been charted by navigators in the early 17th century, and the visible mountain ranges named by British admiralty navigators later in the century. Most German surveying efforts had focused on coastal regions and river basins, where Germans had established plantations. The boundary between Papua and Kaiser Wilhelmsland had been established by a joint British-German expedition in 1909, the interior had not been mapped. Since then, Papuan gold prospectors had crossed into German territory which, from the German perspective, made the accuracy of the border essential.\n\nThe first European to spend any length of time in Morobe was Russian biologist Nicolai Miklouho-Maclay. He arrived at Astrolabe Bay, south of the present site of Madang, in 1871 and stayed for 15 months before leaving to regain his health,\n\n1874 John Moresby on HMS Basilisk sails along Huon Gulf and names Parsee Point (Salamaua), the Markham, Rawlinson Ranges, and explores around the Markham mouth, and meet up with people along the coast; who according to him seem to have met white men before.\n\nIn the 1870s and 1880s German commercial firms began to site trading stations in New Guinea. Agents of J.C. Godeffroy & Sohn reached the Bismarck Archipelago from the Caroline Islands in 1872. In 1875 Hernsheim & Company moved to the Archipelago.\n\nIn 1884, the German New Guinea Company was founded in Berlin by Adolph von Hansemann, Dr Otto Finsch and a syndicate of German bankers for the purpose of colonizing and exploiting resources on \"Neu Guinea\" (German New Guinea), where German interest grew after British Queensland's annexation of part of eastern New Guinea.\n\nVon Hansemann's task was to select land for plantation development on the north-east coast of New Guinea and establish trading posts. Its influence soon grew to encompass the entire north-eastern part of New Guinea and some of the islands off the coast.\n\nMost of the German settlers to Kaiser-Wilhelmsland were plantation owners, miners, and government functionaries, and the number of European settlers, including non-Germans, was never very high.\n\nOn 19 August 1884, Chancellor Bismarck ordered the establishment of a German protectorate in the New Britain Archipelago and north-eastern New Guinea.\n\nIn 1885 and 1887, Johann Flierl established missionary stations in Simbang and Timba Island. After malaria epidemics in 1889 and again in 1891 killed almost half of the European settlers on the coast in Finschhafen, many of the Europeans moved toward Friedrich Wilhelmshafen (now Madang). Flierl established a Mission station at Sattelberg, in the highlands. In 1890 and 1891, he built the Sattelberg Mission Station there and constructed a road approximately between the station and the Finsch harbor (\"Finschhafen\"), which cut the traveling time from three days to five hours.\n\nIn 1885, Lutheran and Catholic congregations sent clergy to establish missions, who experienced moderate, but very slow, success with the indigenous peoples. Missionaries and plantation owners alike were limited by tropical diseases, travel, and communication barriers.\n\nGerman colonial rule in New Guinea lasted for a period of thirty years, For the first fifteen years the colony was administered under imperial charters by a private company, in the manner of the old British and Dutch East India company. From 1899 to 1914, the Imperial Government administered German New Guinea through a governor, who was assisted after 1904 by a nominated Government Council.\n\nWhen the Imperial Government took over the running of the colony in 1899, its overriding objective was rapid economic development, based on a German- controlled plantation economy.\n\nIn April 1911, Dr Wegener, \ndirector of the Meteorological Observatory in Apia, stated he was on his way to German New Guinea, to make preliminary arrangements for a series of journeys by balloon across the mainland, the purpose of which was to make aerial surveys.\n\nIn late 1913, the Imperial Colonial Office appointed Hermann Detzner to lead an expedition to survey the border between the British protectorate, called Papua and the German territory and to survey and map the interior. Detzner, an Austrian, was a military surveyor.\n\nThe expedition set off along the Langimar-Watut divide, and traveled by raft down the Watut River to its junction with the Markham River, and on to the Lutheran Mission station at Gabmadzung\n\nOn 4 August 1914, Britain declared war on Germany. As World War I spread to the Pacific, Australian troops invaded German New Guinea, taking the German barracks in Herbertshöhe (present day Kokopo) and forcing the defending German colonial troops to capitulate on 21 September after their defeat at Bita Paka.\n\nOn 6 August 1914, residents of the Protectorate were notified by proclamation that a state of war existed between Germany, and England, France and Russia. During this time Detzner continued surveying and avoiding allied forces.\n\nOn 11 November 1918, Detzner was advised that the war had ended and surrendered himself at Finschafen complete with sword and sun helmet. He was interned at Sydney and returned to Germany.\n\nUnder German New Guinea, powerful wireless stations were constructed at strategic points in the Pacific including Yap, Nauru, Samoa, and at Bita Paka, in German New Guinea.\n\nThe German protectorate was overrun by British-Australian troops. In 1918, as part of the settlements ending World War I, Kaiser-Wilhemsland was administered by the Commonwealth of Australia, a British dominion.\n\nIn 1918, Kaiser Wilhelmsland and the other territories that comprised German New Guinea (New Pomerania and the islands of the Bismarck Archipelago) were administered by the Commonwealth of Australia. Beginning in 1920, Australia, under a mandate from the League of Nations, governed the former German territory of New Guinea. It was administered under this mandate until the Japanese invasion in December 1941 (Operation Mo). Most of the territory of New Guinea, was occupied by Japanese forces before recapture during the final months of the war in the Australian-American New Guinea campaign.\n\nDistrict officers and patrol officers, known as Kiaps provided administrative functions as a one-man representative of the government, taking on policing and judicial roles as well as more mundane tasks as completing censuses. The Kiaps were commissioned as officers of the Royal Papua New Guinea Constabulary and Magistrates.\n\nPatrol posts were established in populated areas around the Province. The former German administrative center, Adolfhaven, was renamed the Morobe Patrol Post and a Sub-District headquarters established in Kaiapit and Kainantu and District headquarters established in Lae and patrol posts established in Wantoat and other areas in the province During the 1960s the kiap became more like a magistrate, moving away from law enforcement.\n\nMorobe province was a key campaign site during World War II. The Japanese had established strong supply bases in the towns of Lae and Salamaua in 1942. The Salamaua-Lae campaign of the following year was a series of actions in which the Australian and United States forces sought to capture the two Japanese bases. The campaign to take the area began with the Australian attack on Japanese positions near Mubo, on 22 April 1943 and ended with the fall of Lae on September 16, 1943, in Operation Postern. The campaign was notable not only for its classic defense maneuvers at the Landing at Nadzab and the brutal hand-to-hand combat at Salamaua; Lyndon B. Johnson, the 36th President of the United States, saw his sole 13 minutes of combat on a bombing mission over Lae. Although the plane he was supposed to fly was shot down, with no survivors, his flight in B-26 Marauder had repercussions throughout the Pacific theater. Sent as an observer, with instructions to report up the line to Roosevelt, to Congress, and to the Navy brass that the conditions in the Pacific were deplorable, the men had third–rate equipment to fight Japan's first class planes. The effort needed another 6,800 trained and experienced men, plus better supplies, provisions, and generally a higher priority in the war effort.\n\nThe Lae War Cemetery is located adjacent to the Botanical Gardens in the center of the city of Lae. The cemetery was begun in 1944 by the Australian Army Graves Services, and the Commonwealth Graves Commission assumed responsibility for it in 1947. The Lae Memorial commemorates 300 men of the Australian forces (including Merchant Navy, Royal Australian Air Force, and the Australian Army) who lost their lives and have no known grave. It contains 2300–2800 burials, of which 444 are unidentified.\n\nAfter the World War 2, Morobe Province was in a neglected state with the main economic activity being the collection and sale of war disposal equipment. The expatriate population looked at expanding the agricultural sector. The Australian Minister of Territories was Mr. Eddie Ward who refused to allow any land purchases. Following a change of government, Mr. Percy Spender changed this policy and with the introduction of the Ex-Servicemen’s Credit Scheme which resulted in a significant increase in Agricultural activity through all of the country.\n\nIn 1970 mineral exports were a mere 1 percent of total exports. Within 2 years, this figure had risen to 55 percent.\n\nPapua New Guinea is part of the Australasian realm.\nThrough eco-tourism, the Province capitalizes on its spectacular scenery, readily accessible diving locales, and its mountains, and jungles to offer tourists rich experiences in coral reef, rain forest, sub-alpine and alpine and tropical habitats. The Province's jungles and forests are also popular for viewing over 1000 of species of birds and mammals, including the colourful emperor bird of paradise, the flightless cassowary and varieties of macropods, including the tree-kangaroo and over 15,000 species of plants. The Huon Peninsula, which comprises most of the provincial land-mass, is a unique montane eco-region that offers a variety of plants and conditions found nowhere else in the world. Its coral reefs and volcanic inlets are home to thousands of species of fish and oceanic life that thrive in the reefs and wrecks.\n\nIn 2009 the YUS Conservation Area has been established in the northern part of the Huon Peninsula. YUS stretches over 760 km² and includes three rivers: Yopno, Uruwa and Som, after which it was named. It is a critical habitat for the endangered matschie's tree-kangaroo.\n\nMorobe Province's economy has grown at the rate of approximately two percent \"per annum\" since 2006. The economic base of the Morobe Province depends on the production and harvesting of cocoa, coffee, copra and sugar, and tropical fruits (bananas, coconuts). Oil and gas industries are emerging, as is new mining and energy industry. Deteriorating roads and the lack of manufacturing and transportation/communication infrastructure impedes economic development.\n\nThe Hidden Valley mine is a gold and silver mine was built by Harmony Gold (mining) from South Africa over 2006 to mid-2009, with Newcrest Mining from Australia buying into the project in mid-2008 to form the Morobe Mining Joint Venture or ‘MMJV’ (shared 50-50%). The MMJV operates the Hidden Valley mine and all exploration work on MMJV tenements, which includes the large Wafi-Golpu copper-gold deposit.\n\nThe relative youth of the Morobe province population puts an increasing strain on schools and education services to combat illiteracy and its accompanying problems. Eight percent of the population (children) depend on twenty percent of the population (adults) for economic support, and population continues to grow at about 2.8 percent per year, which is higher than other developing countries.\n\nThe population of Morobe speak over 100 languages, representing 27 language families. The majority of the indigenous Papuan languages of Morobe Province belong to the Finisterre-Huon branch of the Trans-New Guinea language family. During the 20th century, two well-studied local languages, Kâte and Yabem, were used for the purposes of evangelisation by the Lutheran Church, based in Finschhafen. In theory, Kâte was intended for use in the mountainous hinterlands, where Papuan languages are spoken, and Yabem in coastal and lowland areas, particularly along the coast and in the Markham Valley, where speakers of the Austronesian family of languages predominate. However, in some inland areas such as Wau, both Kâte and Yabem were introduced by mission groups coming from different directions. Today, English, and especially Pidgin English, are the common urban languages in Lae.\n\nThe Province sends nine members to the national parliament, and has 14 members of the \"Tutumang\" the provincial assembly. \"Tutumang\" means \"the coming together,\" and the Province maintains that name for its assembly, as is permitted under the Organic Law on Provincial Government and Local Government. Since the 2012 National Election the Morobe Governor has been Kelly Naru.\n\nEach province in Papua New Guinea has one or more districts, and each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1978 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857757", "title": "R345 (South Africa)", "text": "R345 (South Africa)\n\nThe R345 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Cathcart with Hamburg via Hogsback, Alice and the Double Drift Nature Reserve. It is co-signed with the R63 between Fort Hare and Alice.\n\nIts northern origin is Cathcart at the N6. It passes through Hogsback to reach the R63. The roads run west together to reach Alice. From Alice, the route departs heading south. It then bends south-east to reach the N2. It is cosigned heading south-west, and the routes enter Peddie. At Peddie, the route heads east to the R72. The routes are cosigned heading south, before the R345 is given off to end at the coast at Hamburg.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857759", "title": "Interscholastic Association of Southeast Asian Schools", "text": "Interscholastic Association of Southeast Asian Schools\n\nThe Interscholastic Association of Southeast Asian Schools (IASAS) is an association of six private schools in and around Southeast Asia. The member schools are International School Bangkok (Thailand), International School of Kuala Lumpur (Malaysia), International School Manila (Philippines), Jakarta Intercultural School (Indonesia), Singapore American School (Singapore), and Taipei American School (Taiwan).\n\nHigh level competitions and events involving teams or groups from the IASAS schools are held throughout the school year in areas of sports, or cultural and artistic events. Sports competitions are organized into three separate seasons, and tournaments are held at the end of approximately 10-week seasons. Cultural and Artistic events are held in separate seasons from sports, with Model United Nations during one season (non-competitive event), and the Arts events during another season. Each of the IASAS schools rotate the hosting of events, based on available facilities and current events of each country. While participating in events, students are expected to adhere to a strict code of conduct. Students traveling to other schools to participate in IASAS events stay with families of students from the host school. The events, organized by season, are listed below.\n\nThe first season of IASAS, held in October, includes soccer, volleyball, and cross country running. The second season of IASAS, held in January, includes basketball, rugby union (for men), touch rugby (for women), swimming, and tennis. The third season of IASAS, held in April, includes badminton, fastpitch softball (for women) and baseball (for men), golf, and track and field. In addition to the culminating IASAS events that occur at the end of each season, athletics exchanges are held during the season so that teams have an opportunity to see the competition from the other schools. These exchanges usually only involve three or four of the IASAS schools at a time, and no awards are given for winning an exchange. Most recently, International School of Manila held a 'Super IASAS', with all season one sports occurring in the same location. This was a part of their centennial celebration. SAS won 5 out of the 6 sports, with only the exception of girls volleyball (won by TAS). \n\nLeadership Convention was canceled starting from the 2008-2009 academic year due to the effort to reduce the unnecessary travel for non-competitive events. A conference for student peer-helper groups took place in September of 2005, 2006 and 2007, but has since been discontinued. Model United Nations is held in November, usually with additional schools participating.\n\nCultural Convention is held in March and includes three separate events: \"Music\", \"Dance, Drama, Art and Theatre Tech (Stagecraft)\", and \"Debate and Forensics\". The music delegation includes choir, strings, band and pianists. Forensics events include Original Oratory, Oral Interpretation, Extemporaneous Speaking, and Impromptu. Though the three components of Cultural Convention take place concurrently, they are typically hosted in different locations.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857764", "title": "R346 (South Africa)", "text": "R346 (South Africa)\n\nThe R346 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Kidds Beach with Stutterheim.\n\nIts northern origin is from the N6 at Stutterheim. It heads south-south-west through Braunschweig to King William's Town where it crosses the N2 at a staggered junction. It leaves the town heading south-south-east through Zwelitsha. There, it turns east-south-east until it ends at a junction with East London's M5.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857768", "title": "Bontempi", "text": "Bontempi\n\nBontempi is an Italian musical instrument manufacturer, best known for manufacturing low-priced, plastic-cased chord organs: small keyboard instruments in which the sound is produced by air being forced over reeds by an electric fan.\n\nSuch instruments were popular in the 1970s and early 1980s, and continued to be made until the mid-1980s, when Bontempi moved to manufacturing small, home electronic keyboards. The company continues to make low-priced musical instruments aimed at the educational and toy market, including keyboards, guitars, drum kits and various items of tuned percussion.\n\nBontempi has been manufacturing musical instruments and toys for over 80 years; some of its fan-blown reed organs were built by Comus S.p.A..\n\nSome European musicians use the expression \"having a Bontempi sound\" to describe an electronic instrument that sounds like a young child's toy, as they were children when Bontempi instruments were extremely popular in western Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857770", "title": "Ramakrishna Math", "text": "Ramakrishna Math\n\nRamakrishna Math is the administrative legal organization of the Ramakrishna Order, considered part of the Hindu reform movements. It was set up by sanyasin disciples of Ramakrishna pramhansa headed by Swami Vivekananda at Baranagar Math in Baranagar, a place near Calcutta (now Kolkata), in 1886. India. The headquarters of Ramakrishna Math and its twin organisation, Ramakrishna Mission is at Belur Math (in West Bengal, India).\n\nAlthough Ramakrishna Math and Ramakrishna Mission are legally and financially separate, they are closely inter-related in several other ways and are to be regarded as twin organizations. All branch centres of Ramakrishna Math come under the administrative control of the Board of Trustees, whereas all branch centres of Ramakrishna Mission come under the administrative control of the Governing Body of Ramakrishna Mission.\n\nThe Ramakrishna Math and the Ramakrishna Mission have 214 centres all over the world : \nand one each in Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Fiji, France, Germany, Ireland, Japan, Malaysia, Mauritius, Nepal, Netherlands, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Switzerland, and United Kingdom. Besides, there are 45 sub-centres (22 within India, 23 outside India) under different centres.\n\nBesides these branch centres, there are about one thousand unaffiliated centres (popularly called 'private centres') all over the world started by the devotees and followers of Sri Ramakrishna and Swami Vivekananda.\n\nRamakrishna Math consists of monks (Sannyasins and Brahmacharins) belonging to a monastic order for men. The Ramakrishna Order (Bengali: রামকৃষ্ণ সংঘ) is the monastic lineage that was founded by Ramakrishna, when he gave the ocher cloth of renunciation to twelve of his close disciples, in January 1886 at the Cossipore House. After the passing away of their Master Sri Ramakrishna in 1886 the young disciples under the leadership of Swami Vivekananda organized themselves into a new monastic order. The original monastery at Baranagar called Baranagar Math was shifted in January 1899 to a newly acquired plot of land at Belur in the district of Howrah.\n\nSri Sarada Devi, popularly called as Holy Mother and Sangha Janani (Mother of the Order), played a key role in the establishment of the Ramakrishna Order. During the early days, when the young monks were roaming about penniless, it was the Holy Mother who gave them encouragement, inspiration, and her prayers.\n\nDuring his lifetime, Ramakrishna gathered and trained his young disciples with Narendranath (future Vivekananda) as their anointed leader. It is these disciples - some of whom were also blessed with monastic robes by Ramakrishna himself, that formed the core of a new monastic order that bears his name now. Swami Vivekananda and fifteen others were the founders of this order. After taking formal monastic vows through appropriate rituals (12 at first and the rest at different times later) they assumed new names as follows (based on seniority in age):\n\nFrom February 1892 to February 1898, the Ramakrishna Math was located at Alambazar, half a mile from Dakshineshwar Temple. The house which housed the Alambazar Math, as it is popularly known today, was visited by Sri Ramakrishna.\n\nFor a short period, the math was temporarily moved to the Nilambar Mukherjee Garden, below the final settlement at Belur Math.\n\nThis monastery, known as Belur Math, serves as the Mother House for all the monks of Ramakrishna Order who live in the various branch centres of Ramakrishna Math and/or the related Ramakrishna Mission in different parts of India and the world.\n\nAny organisation, especially the one that bears the name of an epoch-making person, needs a motto to guide it and an emblem that constantly reminds and inspires. Realising this, Vivekananda placed before it the motto: आत्मनो मोक्षार्थम् जगद्धिताय च - Atmano Mokshartham jagaddhitaya cha ('For the liberation of the Self and service to the society'). He also designed a charming but distinctive emblem that effectively reflected this motto. It consists of an elegant swan against the backdrop of the rising sun, surrounded by wavy waters from which has arisen a beautiful lotus flower along with a couple of leaves. This whole picture is encircled by a hooded serpent.\n\nWhereas the motto adds a social dimension to the hitherto, purely personal, aspect of a self-centred sadhana, the emblem - which graphically describes a balanced combination or harmony of all the four yogas - enriches that sadhana by making it more comprehensive.\n\nSwami Vivekananda explained the imagery in the following terms: \n\"\"The wavy waters in the picture are symbolic of Karma; the lotus, of Bhakti; and the rising-sun, of Jnana. The encircling serpent is indicative of Yoga and the awakened Kundalini Shakti, while the swan in the picture stands for Paramatman (Supreme Self). Therefore, the idea of the picture is that by the union of Karma, Jnana, Bhakti and Yoga, the vision of Paramatman is obtained.\"\"\n\nThe basic philosophy of life put before the Ramakrishna Order by Vivekananda automatically led to a bifurcation of its activities into two important, but parallel, areas. The atmamoksha aspect resulted in the establishment of the Ramakrishna Math, an organisation catering predominantly to the spiritual needs of the monks of the order as also its votaries. The jagaddhita aspect on the other hand, gave rise to another, a sister organisation, concentrating solely on public service activities.\n\nUnlike the old monastic traditions prevalent at the time, the Ramakrishna movement has certain unique features. They may be listed as follows:\n\nThe Ramakrishna movement does not identify itself with any particular sect or group or even tradition. It embraces the whole gamut of religio-spiritual development of the entire Hindu culture over the last five thousand years or more. It also has room for other religions and faiths. Therefore, Ramakrishna Math allows people even outside the Hindu faith to embrace monastic life following the basic monastic disciplines as exemplified in the lives of Ramakrishna-Vivekananda.\n\nSince its cradle years, the Ramakrishna monks have chosen to live in a group. Though from time to time, the monks went into solitude or wandering alone, the sense of brotherhood among them was too strong to keep anyone away from the monastery for too long. Since Sri Ramakrishna himself insisted on Sadhu Sangha (holy company) it is but natural for his disciples to seek the company of the each other The greatest advantage of a Sangha (organisation of monks) is strengthening of one another's spiritual vibrations and the rounding off one's angularities.\n\nThe philosophy of service of this Sangha is serving the Jiva as Siva (God). Thus, what is usually a mere act of social service is elevated to a spiritual practice. \"No work is secular\" is a popular dictum in the Ramakrishna-Vivekananda circle. Moreover, its members practice the teachings of Karma Yoga of 'perfection in action', therefore, any work taken up has to be carried out with efficiency as a spiritual discipline.\n\nThe fact that the Movement lays great stress on selfless service as a means of God-realization also attracts many people. The service it gives is open to all, irrespective of caste or creed or language.\n\nRamakrishna monks also are not averse to modern technologies, but on the other hand, actively canvass the use of technologies for the progress and well-being of the society.\n\nSwami Vivekananda urged for a 'root and branch reform' and not merely superficial progress or development. Real reformation starts with reforming and refining one's own character. Character building and personality development are some of the activities taken up by the Ramakrishna centres to bring real lasting changes in the society. Therefore, the Ramakrishna Order do not directly involve itself in any social reformation.\n\nSwami Vivekananda with an uncanny vision of the future forbade his organization strictly from taking part in any political movement or activity. Why? Because the monk is a world-citizen, nay, a man of God! (And, world-citizens do not dabble in politics, whereas Godmen have no politics at all.) Even though in the early years, many did not agree with this, later history has proved that Vivekananda was absolutely right.\n\nThe Ramakrishna Math was registered as a Trust in 1901. The management of the Math is vested in a Board of Trustees who are only monks. The Math with its branches is a distinct legal entity. It has well-defined rules of procedure. It lays emphasis on religious practices and preaching of Dharma. The Math has its own separate funds and keeps detailed accounts which are annually audited by qualified chartered accountants.\n\nIn consultation with the senior monks of the Order, the Trustees elect from among themselves a President, one to three Vice Presidents, a General Secretary and four Assistant Secretaries. The President, also called the 'Sanghaguru' is the supreme Head of the whole organisation and the sole authority to confer Samnyasa or administering the monastic vow. The Presidents, Vice Presidents (or the Head of a foreign centre) are also empowered to give initiation or Mantra Diksha to devotees aspiring for it.\n\nThe General Secretary is the administrative head of the organisation. However, his power is limited to implementing the decisions taken by the Trustees/Members of the Governing Body, though he has the freedom to act in matters of day-to-day administration. The Assistant Secretaries work under his guidance.\n\nThe individual centres of the Math are managed by the Adhyaksha and of the Mission, by the secretaries, duly appointed by the Trustees/Members of the Governing Body. These again, are expected to carry on their work with the assistance of the monastic members allotted to their centres as also volunteers and paid-workers.\n\nAs on 31 March 2014, there were 409 monastic members, 254 lay members, and 181 lay associates.\n\nThe fundamental truth as taught by all religions is that man has to transform his base human nature into the divine that is within him. In other words, he must reach the deeper strata of his being, wherein lies his unity with all mankind. And Vedanta can help us to contact and live that truth which unfolds our real nature — the divinity lying hidden in man. \n\nVedanta is not a particular religion but a philosophy which includes the basic truths of all religions. It teaches that man's real nature is divine; that it is the aim of man's life on earth to unfold and manifest the hidden Godhead within him; and that truth is universal. \n\nThus Vedanta preaches a universal message, the message of harmony. In its insistence on personal experience of the truth of God, on the divinity of man, and the universality of truth it has kept the spirit of religion alive since the age of the Vedas (ancient scriptures). Even in our time there have been Ramakrishna, Vivekananda, and men like Gandhi. The modern apostle of Vedanta, Vivekananda, describes the ideal religion of tomorrow as follows: \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857777", "title": "William Thomas Smedley", "text": "William Thomas Smedley\n\nWilliam Thomas Smedley (March 26, 1858 – March 26, 1920), American artist, was born in Chester County, Pennsylvania, of a Quaker.\n\nHe worked at a newspaper, then studied engraving and art in Philadelphia, in the Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts, and — after making a tour of the South Seas — in Paris under Jean-Paul Laurens. He settled in New York City in 1880; in 1882 went with the Marquis of Lorne through Canada, preparing sketches for \"Picturesque Canada\". He also provided wood engravings that appeared as illustrations in \"The Picturesque Atlas of Australasia\" (1886). \n\nIn 1905 he became a member of the National Academy of Design.\n\nMost of his work was magazine and book illustration for stories of modern life, but he painted portraits and watercolours, and received the Evans Prize of the American Watercolor Society in 1890, and a bronze medal at the Paris Exposition of 1900.\n\nSmedley died in Bronxville, New York on 26 March 1920.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857779", "title": "Van Nuys High School", "text": "Van Nuys High School\n\nVan Nuys High School (VNHS) is a public high school in the Van Nuys district of Los Angeles, belonging to the Los Angeles Unified School District: District 2. The school is home to a Residential Program and three Magnet Programs—Math/Science, Performing Arts, and Medical.\n\nSeveral neighborhoods, including much of Van Nuys, portions of Sherman Oaks, Magnolia Woods, and Victory Park, are zoned to this school.\n\nVan Nuys High School opened in 1914, four years after Van Nuys was established. For years the only high schools in the Valley were Van Nuys, Owensmouth (now Canoga Park), San Fernando, and North Hollywood. The main buildings and auditorium were built in 1933, incorporating remnants of the 1915 building which had been destroyed in the Long Beach earthquake. The football and track stadium, originally built at the same time as the current high school, is named for Bob Waterfield, and the baseball field for Don Drysdale, the two most famous athletes to have played for VNHS.\n\nFor the 1998–1999 Scholastic Assessment Test (SAT), Van Nuys high had a 537 average on the verbal portion and a 568 on the mathematics portion, giving it the highest SAT scores in the LAUSD that year.\n\nThe Los Angeles Unified School District ordered Van Nuys High School to convert to year-round scheduling in 2001, due to such reasons as overcrowding. Even though this relieved the overcrowding at the school, the Magnet Programs separated tracks, along with the residential students. The Performing Arts Magnet and the Medical Magnet were only available on the A-Track Schedule, while the Math and Science Magnet was only available on the C-Track Schedule. B-Trackers could not take the same classes as C-Trackers, while C-Trackers could only take certain A-Track classes. Teachers that had both A-Track and C-Track students were frustrated because the curriculum had to be synchronized with both tracks.\n\nVan Nuys High School returned to the Traditional School Calendar in 2005. The switch was caused by a decline in the school population and by a new district policy to eliminate year-round schools whenever possible.\n\nThe opening of Panorama High School in October 2006, relieved overcrowding at Van Nuys High School.\n\nVan Nuys High School has had the highest AP passing rate in the LAUSD for two consecutive years.\n\nVan Nuys High School was indeed established in 1915, although the first graduating ceremony was held in 1914 for a small group of students who had previously attended different schools, legitimately making the class of 2014 The Centennials. The issue was discussed between high authority figures of the school, and they decided that even though the first graduating ceremony that took place for students who did attend Van Nuys High School was in the year 1915, the first graduating ceremony to take place in the school took place back in 1914.\n\nVan Nuys has a range of extracurricular teams. Its Science Olympiad team has consistently placed in the top 6 in regional competitions, from 2014 to 2019, even advancing to state competitions several times, such as in 2018. Its Science Bowl team won the national competition in 1995, and has placed highly in regional competitions in the years since. \n\nVan Nuys has a newly created history bowl team , and has placed in playoffs on its first year of competing.\n\nThe Adult School is on the same campus as Van Nuys High School. It allows adults as well as high school students to take classes. Most Van Nuys High School students take courses in the Adult School for academic remediation. However, some take classes for Counselor-Identified High School Credit Deficiencies, while others take classes for personal necessities of flexible scheduling.\n\nThe Adult School is considered a work-at-your-own-pace program. A student can finish an entire course in just 2–3 weeks, but can take longer depending on the work effort of the student.\n\nIn baseball Van Nuys High qualified for postseason play. The following time the school's team qualified was in 1989, after a 9–7 victory over Birmingham High School at the Van Nuys-Sherman Oaks Recreation Center.\n\nVan Nuys High has a variety of sports including: basketball, baseball, softball, volleyball, football, soccer, golf, wrestling, water polo, swimming and tennis. It has had longtime rivalries with Francis Polytechnic High School and Hollywood High School.\n\nThe Van Nuys High wrestling team won the Los Angeles City Championship in 1976.\n\n\nThe campus was used as a location for the 1982 movie \"Fast Times at Ridgemont High\". Ridgemont High's mascot in the movie was the same as Van Nuys High School—a wolf, which remains VNHS's mascot today.\n\nThe horror films \"Christine\" and \"Sleepwalkers\", both written by Stephen King, were filmed at Van Nuys High School.\n\nSome perhaps less well known movies filmed at Van Nuys High include \"My Science Project\", Kid 'n Play's \"Class Act\" and \"My Stepmother is an Alien\" (featuring Kim Basinger) were also filmed at VNHS, as were scenes in the Disney film \"Starstruck\".\n\nIn addition, the pilot episode of \"The Wonder Years\" and several episodes of \"Highway to Heaven\" were filmed there, as was The Ramones' punk-rock movie classic \"Rock 'n' Roll High School\".\n\nThe music video of Vitamin C's Graduation song was filmed at Van Nuys High School. An episode of \"Apple's Way\" 1974–1975 Vince Van Patten was filmed on the football field. An episode of \"Scrubs\" was filmed on the track field. An episode of \"7th Heaven\" was filmed there as well, as was an episode of \"Twin Peaks\". The 2009 film \"Love at First Hiccup\" was also filmed at the front of the school and in the school's quad.\n\nA 2009 music video \"About a Girl\" by The Academy Is... was also filmed in Van Nuys High School. Also, several episodes of the 2010 series \"Parenthood\" were shot in the school's library and quad area.\n\nVNHS was used as the location for many of the scenes in the '80s TV series \"The White Shadow\".\n\nThe 2014 music video for the song \"Unlimited\" made by the clothing company Old Navy was filmed at Van Nuys High School.\n\n\"Young Sheldon\" is filmed at Van Nuys High School.\n\nThe 2018 adaptation of the film \"Valley Girl\" was filmed at Van Nuys High School.\n"}
{"id": "1857780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857780", "title": "R347 (South Africa)", "text": "R347 (South Africa)\n\nThe R347 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Strydenburg with the R369 to Hopetown and Priekska. There was another unconnected route R347 located in Eastern Cape Province which has since been re-signed as the M25.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857784", "title": "Marc Heal", "text": "Marc Heal\n\nMarc Heal is an English musician, TV producer and writer. He is best known as an Industrial music artist of the 1990s, noted for mixing metal and techno with more traditional Industrial sounds. His extrovert onstage behaviour was unusual in the generally downbeat Industrial genre.\n\nHis most influential project was Cubanate, founded 1992 with Graham Rayner, Phil Barry and Steve Etheridge. Cubanate made four albums. Their final release, Interference, came out in 1998. They reformed in 2010, and released a re-mastered greatest hits album, Brutalism, in 2017.\n\nHeal first surfaced supporting Gary Numan in 1987 with Westwon. Later, signed with Cubanate to legendary Chicago industrial label Wax Trax!, he also participated in several side projects like C-Tec (with Jean-Luc De Meyer from Front 242), and Ashtrayhead. During the 1990s he was also involved in game music with contributions to Command & Conquer, and the best-selling Sony PlayStation console game Gran Turismo. His music has appeared in The Sopranos and Mortal Kombat. Heal has also collaborated with Martin Atkins, Rhys Fulber, Doug Martin, Julian Beeston (ex -Nitzer Ebb), Cobalt 60, and KMFDM. His other music production credits include the first single (\"Thumper\" 2000) for UK metallers Raging Speedhorn. Heal was also a collaborator on Raymond Watts' Pigmartyr album (2004) and was credited on indie – pop act Rubicks \"I See You\" release – an NME Single Of The Week in November 2004.\n\nAfter a 15-year gap, in April 2015, Heal released the Compound Eye Sessions EP on Armalyte Industries, a joint production with long time collaborator, Raymond Watts (a.k.a. PIG). The EP credited Heal as \"MC Lord Of The Flies\". After the end of Cubanate and the final C-Tec album in 2000, Heal had retired from public performance. His last live appearance was a European tour with Fear Factory in 1999. However, on 26 September 2016, he appeared live with Cubanate at the Chicago Cold Waves festival.\n\nA new solo single, \"Adult Fiction\" was released on Armalyte on 6 October 2016, followed by an album, entitled \"The Hum\" on 11 November 2016.\n\nA book by Marc Heal called \"The Sussex Devils\" was published by Unbound October 2015 and distributed by Penguin Random House. Heal now lives in Singapore. He has worked in television and is credited as the Executive Producer of the 2013 BBC World News documentary, \"Changing Fortunes\".\n\nHeal studied politics at the University of Leicester, where he also edited the student newspaper, The Ripple between 1983 and 1984.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857788", "title": "R349 (South Africa)", "text": "R349 (South Africa)\n\nThe R349 is a Regional Route in South Africa that runs from the N2 north-east of East London in the west to the coastal towns of Kei Mouth and Morgan's Bay. The route apparently continues on the other side of the Kei Mouth Ferry past the R409 at Centani, past the R408 at Willowvale, past the R411 at Coffee Bay, ending at the R61 14 km west of Port St Johns.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857789", "title": "Budapest Treaty", "text": "Budapest Treaty\n\nThe Budapest Treaty on the International Recognition of the Deposit of Microorganisms for the Purposes of Patent Procedure, or Budapest Treaty, is an international treaty signed in Budapest, Hungary, on April 28, 1977. It entered into force on August 9, 1980, and was later amended on September 26, 1980. The treaty is administered by the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO).\n\nAs of July 2019, 82 countries are party to the Budapest Treaty. The accession to the Treaty is open to States party to the Paris Convention for the Protection of Industrial Property of 1883. The African Regional Industrial Property Organization (ARIPO), the Eurasian Patent Organization (EAPO) and the European Patent Organisation (EPO) have filed a declaration of acceptance under Article 9(1)(a) of the Treaty.\n\nThe treaty allows \"deposits of microorganisms at an international depositary authority to be recognized for the purposes of patent procedure\". Usually, in order to meet the legal requirement of sufficiency of disclosure, patent applications and patents must disclose in their description the subject-matter of the invention in a manner sufficiently clear and complete to be carried out by the person skilled in the art (see also: reduction to practice). When an invention involves a microorganism, completely describing said invention in the description to enable third parties to carry it out is usually impossible. This is why, in the particular case of inventions involving microorganisms, a deposit of biological material must be made in a recognised institution. The Budapest Treaty ensures that an applicant, i.e. a person who applies for a patent, needs not to deposit the biological material in all countries where he/she wants to obtain a patent. The applicant needs only to deposit the biological material at one recognised institution, and this deposit will be recognised in all countries party to the Budapest Treaty.\n\nThe deposits are made at an international depositary authority (IDA) in accordance with the rules of the Treaty on or before the filing date of the complete patent application. Article 7 of the Budapest treaty outlines the requirements for a facility to become an International Depositary Authority. As of July 23, 2018, there were 47 IDAs in approximately 25 countries worldwide.\n\nIDA's have accepted deposits for biological materials which do not fall within a literal interpretation of \"microorganism\". The Treaty does not define what is meant by \"microorganism.\"\n\nThe range of materials able to be deposited under the Budapest Treaty includes:\n\nThere are many types of expression systems: bacterial; yeast; viral; plant or animal cell\ncultures;\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857793", "title": "R350 (South Africa)", "text": "R350 (South Africa)\n\nThe R350 is a Regional Route in South Africa that connects Bedford and Grahamstown.\n\nIts north-western origin is the R63 at Bedford. From there it heads south, before bending south-east. After about 75 kilometres, it meets the eastern origin of the R400 and shortly after the southern origin of the R344. It passes through Grahamstown, ending just south at the N2.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857794", "title": "Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia", "text": "Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia\n\nThe Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia () was a small unrecognised state that existed in the northwest of Bosnia and Herzegovina between 1993 and 1995. It consisted of the town of Velika Kladuša (its capital) and a few nearby villages. It was proclaimed as a result of secessionist politics by former Bosnian president Fikret Abdić against the central government of Alija Izetbegovic during the Bosnian War. For a short time in 1995, it was known as the Republic of Western Bosnia.\n\nFikret Abdic was the winner of the popular vote to head the government of Bosnia in 1990, but abdicated to Alija Izebegovic under an undisclosed agreement.\n\nIn 1993, according to journalist Anthony Loyd, Abdić decided to try to carve out a little state for himself and succeeded in recruiting enough followers to make his dreams a reality. Abdić was able to hold power over his mini-state by using cult-like propaganda techniques over his followers and Serbian arms and military training. \"Talking to his autonomist followers was much the same as speaking with cult converts anywhere in the world: a wooden dead-end dialogue hallmarked by the absence of individual rationale and logic.\"\n\nThe economy of Western Bosnia was largely reliant on the Agrokomerc company of Velika Kladuša.\n\nThe Autonomous Province cooperated with Serbia as well as Croatia against the Bosnian government in light of the Karađorđevo agreement meant to redistribute Bosnia and Herzegovina between Croatia and Serbia. Fikret Abdić's role in undermining the rival authority in Sarajevo was awarded by the governments of Croatia and FR Yugoslavia (Serbia). Agrokomerc was granted a custom-free trade zone in the Croatian port of Rijeka, and free trade with Serbian-controlled territories. Trade between Western Bosnia and Croatia was ongoing during the Bosnian war.\n\nIn 1994, Franjo Tuđman changed his policies towards Bosnia after diplomatic pressure from the United States as well as UN Security Council. The Washington Agreement was signed in March 1994. The situation became very unfavourable to the future of AP Western Bosnia as Fikret Abdić couldn't count on financial or military help by one of his protectors.\n\nIt was militarily defeated during Operation Tiger in June and August 1994, when the territory of Western Bosnia was seized by the Bosnian government troops. However, they were expelled later that year with the significant help of the Serbs in the Operation Spider, and the Autonomous Province of Western Bosnia was re-established.\n\nThe province declared itself the independent Republic of Western Bosnia () on 26 July 1995.\n\nSoon, in the August 1995 Operation Storm, it would serve as the last line of defense of the Republic of Serbian Krajina in Croatia. The Republic of Western Bosnia was wiped out completely during the joint Croatian and Bosnian government army action during the Operation Storm, on 7 August 1995.\n\nWestern Bosnia's territory was incorporated into the Federation of Bosnia and Herzegovina, within present-day Una-Sana Canton. Abdić, who maintained friendly relations with then-Croatian president Franjo Tuđman, had acquired Croatian citizenship and lived in Croatia in exile. \nAfter the death of Tuđman in December 1999 and the defeat of the Croatian Democratic Union in the Croatian elections of 2000, Abdić was eventually arrested and convicted for war crimes against civilian Bosniaks loyal to the Republic of Bosnia and Herzegovina. The trial took place in Croatia where Abdić was condemned to serve 20 years in prison in 2002. On 9 March 2012, he was released after having served two thirds of his reduced sentence. In 2016, the citizenry of Velika Kladusa elected Abdic mayor.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857797", "title": "Kimmie Meissner", "text": "Kimmie Meissner\n\nKimberly Claire \"Kimmie\" Meissner (born October 4, 1989) is an American former competitive figure skater. She is the 2006 World champion, the 2007 Four Continents champion, and the 2007 U.S. national champion. She is the first American and the first woman to simultaneously hold the World, Four Continents, and national titles.\n\nIn 2005, Meissner became the second American woman to land the triple Axel jump in national competition. She was a member of the 2006 Olympic team and was the youngest American athlete to compete at those Games. She finished 6th at the Olympics in February 2006 and won the World Championships the following month.\n\nKimberly Meissner, nicknamed \"Kimmie\", was born in Towson, Maryland, to Judy (Roth) and Paul Meissner. She is the youngest of four children and the only girl. She is Catholic. Her maternal great-grandparents Paulina and Emmanuel Novo had emigrated separately from Spain during the 1920s. The latter was a fisherman from Galicia.\n\nMeissner was a full-time student at Fallston High School, a public high school and graduated from there in May 2007. She entered the University of Delaware as a part-time student in the fall semester of that year. Until February 2008, she lived in Maryland with her family, and lived at home while attending college. Following her coaching change after the 2008 U.S. Championships, she moved to Fort Lauderdale, Florida.\n\nMeissner stated that after stopping skating during the 2009/10 season, she suffered from depression. \n\nIn the fall of 2009, Meissner moved back to Maryland. During 2010-2012, she attended the University of Delaware as a full-time student. She transferred to Towson University for the spring semester of 2013 and changed her major to English. She graduated in December 2014. She became engaged to Josh Heyne in October 2018. The couple married in Maryland in August of 2019.\n\nIn 2017, Meissner re-enrolled in Towson University to study to become a physician assistant in the graduating class of 2021. \n\nKimmie Meissner began figure skating at age six after watching her older brothers playing ice hockey. She landed her first triple, a salchow jump, six years later.\n\nIn the 1999–2000 season, Meissner qualified for the U.S. Junior Figure Skating Championships on the juvenile level, where she placed 16th. The following season, she repeated that placement, but on the intermediate level. In the United States, juvenile and intermediate-level skaters competed at the U.S. Junior Championships, while novice, junior, and senior-level skaters compete at the U.S. Championships.\n\nMeissner placed second at her regional competition and won her sectional competition to qualify for the 2003 U.S. Championships on the novice level. At age thirteen, Meissner won the U.S. novice national title, after landing a triple lutz jump in her free skate. Following the 2003 U.S. Championships, Meissner was named to the team for the 2003 Triglav Trophy, where she won the bronze medal on the novice level.\n\nFrom 2003, Meissner was coached by Pam Gregory in Newark, Delaware at the University of Delaware Figure Skating Club, the club she represented in competition. She moved up to the junior level in the 2003–2004 season. She won the silver medal at the first event of the 2003–04 ISU Junior Grand Prix series, in Sofia, Bulgaria. She went on to win the Junior Grand Prix event in Bled, Slovenia, which qualified her for the Junior Grand Prix Final, where she placed 5th. At the 2004 U.S. Championships, Meissner was second behind Katy Taylor after the short program, but won the free skate, after landing two triple lutzes, to win the Junior national title. At Nationals, Meissner was named to the U.S. team to the 2004 World Junior Championships, where she landed her first 3Lz-3T combination in competition and won the silver medal behind Miki Ando.\n\nIn the summer of 2004, Meissner began working on a triple Axel jump but stopped practicing the jump for two months due to a slight back injury. She moved up to the senior level nationally but remained a junior internationally. She was practicing four to five hours on most days. On the 2004–05 ISU Junior Grand Prix series, the first season the ISU Judging System was being used in junior competition, she won silver medals at the event in Courchevel, France and a second silver medal at the event in Long Beach, California. Meissner's two silver medals qualified her for the Junior Grand Prix Final in Helsinki, Finland, where she won the bronze medal, after placing seventh in the short program and second in the free skate.\n\nOn January 15, 2005, at the 2005 U.S. Championships, Meissner landed a triple axel jump, becoming only the second American lady to land the jump in competition, fourteen years after Tonya Harding became the first American lady to land the jump. Meissner won the bronze medal.\n\nShe was not age-eligible for the senior World Championships and so was named in the U.S. team for the 2005 World Junior Championships. Meissner placed third in the short program and fourth in the free, placing fourth overall. Afterwards, she attended Worlds as a guest of ESPN and watched from the sidelines.\n\nMeissner moved to the senior level internationally beginning in the 2005–2006 Olympic season. She made her Grand Prix debut at the 2005 Trophée Eric Bompard, where she placed sixth in the short program, fourth in the free skate, and fifth overall. She repeated that overall placement at her second event, the 2005 NHK Trophy, where she placed third in the short program and fifth in the free skate. At the 2006 U.S. Championships, Meissner won the silver medal and was named to the U.S. team to the 2006 Winter Olympics.\n\nMeissner was the youngest athlete on the United States Olympic team. She spent the first week of the Games training in Courmayeur, moving to Torino proper a few days before the ladies event began. Meissner skated second in the short program and landed a triple lutz-triple toe loop combination to place fifth in that segment of the competition. Skating second-to-last in the final flight of the free skate, Meissner placed sixth in the free skate and overall.\n\nFollowing the Olympics, Meissner returned to Baltimore. On the return flight, she partially ruptured one of her eardrums and fully ruptured the other. This affected her hearing as she trained for the 2006 World Championships, her first senior ISU Championship. At Worlds, Meissner placed second in her qualifying group and fifth in the short program, putting her in third place overall going into the free skate. During the free skate, Meissner completed seven triple jumps, including two triple-triple combinations, to win the title. This win made her the first woman since Kristi Yamaguchi to win a world title before a national title. Meissner is also the first woman to win Worlds on her first appearance since Oksana Baiul in 1993. She is the seventh-youngest ladies World Champion in history. Meissner has described this win as changing her career from being the underdog to being expected to win every competition she entered.\n\nMeissner began her season at the 2006 Skate America, where she won the silver medal, the highest finish of her career until then at a Grand Prix event. At her second Grand Prix event, the 2006 Trophée Eric Bompard, she fell on a triple Axel attempt and placed third overall. At the 2007 U.S. Championships, Meissner went in as the favorite. She won the title, after winning the short program and placing third in the free skate. This made her the first ladies skater since Barbara Roles to win the national title on the Novice, Junior, and Senior levels.\n\nAfter Nationals, Meissner went to the Four Continents Championships, a competition for senior-level skaters who are not from Europe, for the first time in her career. She fell on her triple-triple combination in the short program and was in sixth place going into the free skate. She won the free skate and the competition overall, becoming the first U.S. ladies champion to win the Four Continents title.\n\nAfter Four Continents, Meissner competed at the 2007 World Championships. She achieved a new personal best for her short program where she placed fourth. She did not complete either of her triple-triple combinations in the free skating and placed third in that segment of the competition and fourth overall.\n\nMeissner began the 2007–2008 season by beating reigning World champion Miki Ando at the 2007 Skate America. This was Meissner's first win on the Grand Prix series. She then placed second at the 2007 Trophée Eric Bompard, qualifying her for the Grand Prix Final, where she placed sixth. At the time, she was skating on a sprained right ankle, an injury she sustained during a show.\n\nBefore the 2008 U.S. Championships, Meissner worked on her spins with Todd Eldredge. She placed 4th in the short program and 7th in the free after falling three times. She placed 7th overall and was selected for the U.S. team to the 2008 World Championships. After Nationals, Eldredge called her with more input on her spins and recommended his long-time coach Richard Callaghan. Meissner made the choice to switch coaches from long-time coach Pam Gregory to a temporary arrangement with Richard Callaghan in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. She trained with Callaghan for the six weeks between Nationals and the 2008 World Championships.\n\nAt the 2008 World Championships, Meissner placed 9th in the short program and 12th in the long. She placed 7th overall and was the highest placed American in the competition. In the off-season, she toured with Stars on Ice and trained with both Callaghan and Eldredge.\n\nBoth Callaghan and Eldredge coached Meissner during the 2008–2009 season. She began the season at the 2008 Skate America, where she placed 8th. She also placed 8th at the 2008 Cup of Russia. On January 19, 2009, Meissner announced her withdrawal from the 2009 U.S. Championships due to injury.\n\nIn the fall of 2009, Meissner moved back to Maryland. Chris Conte became her coach and also choreographed ice show programs for her. Meissner had been assigned to the 2009 Rostelecom Cup and the 2009 NHK Trophy for the Grand Prix season. She announced her withdrawal from both events on October 8, 2009 due to an injury to her right knee. Due to this, she did not receive a bye to the 2010 U.S. Championships and was too late to register to compete at the regional championships, thereby ending her season. She did not return to amateur competition. Commenting in July 2016, she said, \"The injury wasn't devastating, but things in my personal life all happened at the same time.\"\n\nMeissner continued to appear in ice shows and pro-am events. During the 2014–15 season, she performed as a full-time member for the US Stars on Ice tour.\n\nWhen Meissner returned from the 2006 Olympic Games, a parade was held in her honor in her hometown of Bel Air. Following her win at the 2006 Worlds, the town gave one of its main roads, Pennsylvania Avenue, the honorary title of Kimmie Way. She threw out the ceremonial first pitch for the Phillies opening day game, and a week later for her hometown team, the Baltimore Orioles, on April 14, 2006.\n\nFollowing Meissner's win at the 2007 U.S. Championships, she signed endorsement deals with Subway, Under Armour, and Visa. She has appeared in Subway commercials, including a regional-Baltimore one following the 2006 Olympics, and a national one with Jared Fogle. She appeared in the Under Armour commercial shown during Super Bowl XLII. Meissner appeared in the music video for \"Speed Feels Better\" by Michael Tolcher wearing an Under Armour sweatshirt.\n\nFollowing the 2006 World Championships, Meissner became a spokesperson for the Cool Kids Campaign, an organization for children with cancer. She designed gel bracelets for the organization as a fundraiser. On August 25, 2007, she put on a benefit show in Baltimore called \"Kimmie's Angels on Ice\" to benefit the charity. Meissner also co-edits the newsletter for the charity.\n\nDuring the 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi, Russia, Meissner worked as a figure skating researcher for NBC Olympics.\n\n\"GP: Grand Prix; JGP: Junior Grand Prix\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1857802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857802", "title": "Da Beatminerz", "text": "Da Beatminerz\n\nDa Beatminerz are a hip-hop production crew from Bushwick, Brooklyn, and are known for their dark, gritty sound that is very popular with the underground hip-hop scene.\n\nThe crew, originally composed of brothers Mr. Walt (born June 2, 1968) and DJ Evil Dee (born May 24, 1971), formed in 1992, making their production debut with Evil Dee's group Black Moon, on its debut single, \"Who Got Da Props?\" The duo produced the entirety of Black Moon's acclaimed debut album, \"Enta Da Stage\", in 1993, then continued production work with Black Moon's Buckshot and his crew Boot Camp Clik. In 1995, along with its third official member, Baby Paul, the group produced the entirety of Smif-N-Wessun's debut album, \"Dah Shinin'\". It continued work with fellow Boot Camp members Heltah Skeltah and O.G.C. in 1996, contributing multiple beats for their respective debuts, \"Nocturnal\" and \"Da Storm\". In the late 1990s, da Beatminerz expanded its client list, producing popular hip hop artists such as Afu-Ra, Black Star, Eminem, Flipmode Squad, M.O.P., De La Soul, Mic Geronimo, and O.C..\n\nAlso in 1996, they appeared on the Red Hot Organization's compilation CD, America is Dying Slowly, alongside Biz Markie, Wu-Tang Clan, and Fat Joe, among many other prominent hip hop artists. The CD, meant to raise awareness of the AIDS epidemic among African American men, was heralded as \"a masterpiece\" by The Source magazine. \nBy 2001, the crew expanded to five members, with producers Rich Blak and Chocolate Ty joining Baby Paul, Evil Dee, and Mr. Walt. That year, the group released its debut album, \"Brace 4 Impak\", on popular independent label Rawkus Records, featuring guest appearances from Royce Da 5'9\", Black Moon, Ras Kass, Diamond D, Cocoa Brovaz, Pete Rock, Talib Kweli, Freddie Foxxx, Jean Grae, and Naughty by Nature. The album's lead single, \"Take That,\" became a hip hop hit in 2001, hitting the Top 5 on the Hot Rap Singles chart. By 2004, the crew narrowed back to its original members, Evil Dee and Mr. Walt, and the duo released its second album, \"Fully Loaded w/ Statik\", on Copter Records. In the new millennium, the group has crafted beats for artists such as Akrobatik, Big Daddy Kane, Black Moon, Boot Camp Clik, Craig G, Dilated Peoples, Jean Grae, KRS-One, Naughty By Nature, Smif-N-Wessun, and Wordsworth. Currently, Da Beatminerz are running their own internet radio station. They are currently set to produce the entirety of Black Moon's next LP, 'Dark Side Of The Moon'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857803", "title": "Oja Kodar", "text": "Oja Kodar\n\nOja Kodar ( ; born 1941) is a Croatian actress, screenwriter and director known as Orson Welles's partner during the later years of his life.\n\nBorn Olga Palinkaš in Zagreb to a Hungarian father and a Croatian mother, Kodar was the partner and lover of Orson Welles during the final years of his life. They met in 1961 in Zagreb, PR Croatia, FPR Yugoslavia, when Welles was on location shooting \"The Trial\", released the following year. Forty-six-year-old Welles, at the time married to his third wife Paola Mori, took a liking to the twenty-year-old \"dark, beautiful and exotic-looking\" Palinkaš. Soon after they began their relationship, Welles gave her a stage name, Oja Kodar, which is a mixture of the nickname 'Oja', used by her sister Nina, and the Croatian expression \"k'o dar\" (as a present).\n\nThe Italian press broke the news of Welles's affair with Kodar in March 1970, though Mori was apparently unaware of it until 1984.\n\nIn his final years, Welles divided his time between a Las Vegas home he shared with Mori and a Hollywood house with Kodar. Mori died 10 months after her husband, and the estate was settled by Kodar and Beatrice Welles, Mori and Welles's daughter, on November 7, 1986.\n\nMost of Kodar's cinematic career revolved around Welles's projects, many of which were never completed.\n\nIn 1966, five years after they met, the couple returned to the Yugoslav coast, where Welles began shooting \"The Deep\" based on Charles Williams's novel \"Dead Calm\" with Kodar playing one of the main roles. Welles envisioned the film as a commercial project, designed to do well at the box-office; however, the production ran into financial and technical difficulties and was not completed. Decades later, Kodar blamed it on an unwillingness by jealous co-star Jeanne Moreau to dub her lines, while editor Mauro Bonanni claimed Welles abandoned \"The Deep\" when he realized the novice Kodar was ill-suited for the lead role.\n\nWelles began shooting \"The Other Side of the Wind\" in 1970. Kodar says she co-wrote the screenplay with Welles, though it dates back to the early 1960s as a project Welles first conceived with Keith Baxter and Anthony Perkins in key roles. With a plot revolving around an aging film director's 70th birthday party, the film was conceptualized as a cynical portrait of 1970s Hollywood—parodying the end of the studio system, and the experimental new filmmakers of the New Hollywood, as well as mocking various European directors. The shooting, featuring Kodar in a sex scene with Bob Random in a station wagon, seemed to drag on for years and never got completed until 2018 (almost 50 years later). Unbeknownst to most people, financiers of the film were located in Iran; and the film was physically located in Paris. An imbroglio between the financiers and other parties kept Welles from ever fully possessing the film, thus Welles was never able to complete the extensive editing of the film during his lifetime.\n\nKodar (uncredited) co-wrote and appeared as herself in Welles's free-form documentary \"F for Fake\" (1973), which initially received negative reviews but grew in stature in the years since, owing to its groundbreaking editing techniques.\n\nIn 1980, Kodar collaborated on a script for Welles's film \"The Dreamers\" based on Karen Blixen's stories. Test scenes with Kodar in the main role were shot in 1982, but Welles never obtained backing for the film. The Munich Filmmuseum has edited the black-and-white and color footage into a short film.\n\nThree months after Welles died in October 1985, Kodar sold her book rights to \"Dead Calm\" for $180,000 to Australian producer George Miller for a 1989 film of the same name; however, the deal nearly went sour until producers informed Kodar they would hold her liable for damages.\n\nKodar made her debut as a feature film director with the release of \"Jaded\" (1989). The film was produced by Kodar and Gary Graver (one of the cameramen on \"F for Fake\"), who doubled as the director of photography. The film starred Randall Brady, Elizabeth Brooks, Scott Kaske, Jillian Kesner, Kelli Maroney, and Kodar. Portions of the film were shot in an artist's loft in downtown Los Angeles.\n\nKodar supervised Jess Franco's assemblage of unedited footage of Welles's \"Don Quixote\", which was released in 1992 to generally poor reviews.\n\nKodar's second feature film as a director was the war drama \"Vrijeme za...\" (1993), whose plot is set during the 1991–95 war in Croatia. The film was co-produced by the state-owned Croatian production house Jadran Film and the Italian state television channel Rai Tre, along with the Italian production house Ellepi Films.\n\nShe later co-directed and co-wrote the German-French documentary \"Orson Welles: The One-Man Band\" (1995). For this film, she supervised a compilation of unused footage shot by Welles over the final 20 years of his career. Kodar is interviewed in Los Angeles and in Orvilliers, France, where they shared a house. This documentary is included on The Criterion Collection DVD release of \"F For Fake\". The documentary goes into details about the three unfinished films on which Kodar and Welles worked together. \"The Other Side of the Wind\" was largely completed, and according to media reports in April 2007 was planned for release in 2008. The other films were never completed for reasons explained in the documentary.\n\nIn April 2015, Josh Karp's book \"Orson Welles's Last Movie: The Making of The Other Side of the Wind\" painted an unflattering portrait of Kodar as numerous individuals (investors, attorneys, executives and others) who have been involved with the unfinished film (it was finally completed and released in 2018) since 1999 all told a variation on the same tale in which Kodar derailed attempts to complete the film by reneging on agreements, pitting investors against each other, secretly shopping for better deals, and shifting her allegiances at critical junctures. Kodar's actions prompted an attorney for the Boushehri family, a co-owner of the film, to write in a 2007 memo: \"We have been waiting for many years for her to agree to a deal... My own personal feeling is that she is incapable of making a deal with anyone... Our client has never been the problem. Kodar has been.\"\n\nDirectors Peter Bogdanovich and Henry Jaglom and author Joseph McBride—all onscreen participants in \"The Other Side of the Wind\"—have confirmed that Kodar had at various points derailed attempts to complete the movie.\n\nA plan to complete \"The Other Side of the Wind\" by producers Filip Jan Rymsza and Frank Marshall was agreed to by Kodar in October 2014 but later fell apart as Kodar and producers renegotiated conditions of the deal. She finally signed an agreement with Rymsza, Marshall and Netflix to complete the movie in February 2017. A month later, \"The Other Side of the Wind\" negative was flown from France to Los Angeles for editing and a planned release in 2018.\n\nKodar viewed a rough cut of the film in early 2018 and suggested changes, notably to the film-within-a-film sequences, according to editor Bob Murawski. \"She mostly felt we should play the film-within-the-film scenes much longer and there are scenes we put back in and debated,\" he said. \"She was very supportive and surprisingly did not have a lot of notes.\"\n\nShe expressed some ambivalence about the completion in a July 2018 interview. \"For some time I thought it would be good to make a feature length documentary about all the problems struck by \"The Other Side of the Wind\", but now I’m on the fence; maybe it’s better that the film has been made.\"\n\nKodar was unable to attend the Venice Film Festival premiere owing to health issues and family matters. A letter she sent to Rymsza was read, and it stated in part: \"From everything I heard up to now, you, Frank (Marshall) and Peter (Bogdanovich) did a great job and I thank you all.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "1857804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857804", "title": "Oro Province", "text": "Oro Province\n\nOro Province, formerly (and officially still) Northern Province, is a coastal province of Papua New Guinea. The provincial capital is Popondetta. The province covers 22,800 km, and has 176,206 inhabitants (2011 census). The province shares land borders with Morobe Province to the northwest, Central Province to the west and south, and Milne Bay Province to the southeast. The province is located within the Papuan Peninsula. \n\nOro is the only province in which the Anglican Church is the major religious denomination. Oil palm is the principal primary industry. William Clarke College also funds people in that area.\n\nThe northern end of the Kokoda Track terminates at the village of Kokoda in the province and the active volcano Mount Lamington. Once the Kokoda Track was taken and provided access from Port Moresby to the hinterland during the Second World War, the coast of the then Northern District was also the scene of heavy fighting; the Buna, Gona and Sanananda campaigns are particularly well remembered.\n\nThe Tufi dive and cultural resort is located on the north coast of the Cape Nelson Rural Local Level Government area and is well known for its diving and the spectacular rias, locally referred to as ' fjords'.\n\n\n\nEach province in Papua New Guinea has one or more districts, and each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1977 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n"}
{"id": "1857806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857806", "title": "Morgan Lewis Smith", "text": "Morgan Lewis Smith\n\nMorgan Lewis Smith (March 8, 1822 – December 29, 1874) was a Union brigadier general in the American Civil War\n\nSmith was born in Oswego County, New York. In 1843 he settled in Indiana, and later had some military experience in the United States Army. At the outbreak of the Civil War he raised the 8th Missouri Volunteer Infantry, of which he was elected Colonel in 1861. He commanded a brigade at the capture of Fort Donelson, and performed well at Shiloh. At these two battles his losses included only dead and wounded, none missing or captured. This was a testimony to Smith's leadership, considering other commands lost thousands to skulkers and prisoners during both battles. In mid-May Smith was transferred to command the 1st Brigade in William T. Sherman's division. Smith's brigade took an active part in the siege of Corinth being the lead brigade in the fight for Russell's House and the attack on the double log house.\n\nOn July 19, 1862, Smith was appointed brigadier general of volunteers, to rank from July 16, 1862. He served under Sherman in the Vicksburg Campaign. At the Battle of Chickasaw Bayou he received a severe wound, from which he would not recover until October 1863. He rejoined the Army of the Tennessee before Chattanooga.\n\nHe led his division in the battle of Chattanooga, and in the following year's Atlanta Campaign. During the Battle of Atlanta he temporarily commanded the XV Corps when John A. Logan assumed command of the Army of the Tennessee after James B. McPherson's death. He returned to command his division at the battle of Ezra Church but was soon forced to leave active field command due to complications from his wound received at Chickasaw Bluffs. Afterwards he was placed in charge of Vicksburg. General Sherman said of M.L. Smith, \"He was one of the bravest men in action I ever knew.\"\n\nAfter the Civil War Smith served as U.S. Consul in Honolulu, Hawaii, 1866–1868. He died at Jersey City, New Jersey on December 29, 1874 and was buried at Arlington National Cemetery. His brother, Giles Alexander Smith, was also a Union general.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857808", "title": "Ladyfest", "text": "Ladyfest\n\nLadyfest is a community-based, not-for-profit global music and arts festival for feminist and women artists. Individual Ladyfests differ, but usually feature a combination of bands, musical groups, performance artists, authors, spoken word and visual artists, films, lectures, art exhibitions and workshops; it is organized by volunteers.\n\nThe first ever Ladyfest was conducted in Olympia, Washington in August 2000 with over 2000 people attending. Prime motivators in the event were Sarah Dougher, Sleater-Kinney, and Teresa Carmody. Also performing were The Gossip, Bangs, The Need, The Rondelles, Bratmobile, Slumber Party, and Neko Case, Ladyfests in the world have staged De Introns, Helluvah, Planete concrete, EDH, Sans gène, Synth Cherries, Heart of Wolves, Nasty Candy & Coco Lipstick .\n\nSince the first Ladyfest, the event has branched all over the world in places such as Albuquerque, Amsterdam, Atlanta, Belfast, Belgium, Bellingham, Berlin, Birmingham, Bordeaux, Brighton, Bristol, Brooklyn, Budapest, Cambridge, Columbus, Cork, Chicago, Cardiff, Dijon, Dublin, Glasgow, Grenoble, Kassel, Lansing, MI, London, Los Angeles, Madrid, Manchester, Melbourne, Miami, Orlando, Ottawa, Oxford, Philadelphia, Riverside, California, Scranton, San Francisco, San Diego, Sevilla, Sheffield, Tallinn, Texas, Toronto, Toulouse, Traverse City, Washington, D.C., Wellington, New Orleans, New Zealand, Shanghai, China and more. Each new festival is organized locally and independently of other Ladyfest events in other states or countries, primarily by volunteers, and most proceeds are donated to non-profit organizations.\n\nTen years on from the original event Ladyfest is still going strong as a global phenomenon. The 2010 London Ladyfest was promoted as a \"tenth anniversary\" event, \"celebrating a decade of DIY feminist arts and activism\".\n\nLadyfests in the world propose different kinds of activities, such as concerts, workshops, conferences, debates, about very diverse topics. Workshops range from screenprinting, carpentry, stop-motion, plumbing-lessons to crocheting.\nLadyfest has inspired spin off events such as LaD.I.Y.fest in Berlin, Grrl Fest in Melbourne, and Grrl Fair in Santa Ana, CA.\nLaD.I.Y fest in Berlin aimed to emphasise the do-it-yourself, participatory aspect of the festival.\nAnd Grrl Fest in Melbourne started in 2013 in a warehouse in Melbourne. Harbouring the same ethos as a Lady Fest including music, art, zines and stalls. Grrl Fest is now an annual event with a wide network and sponsors: www.grrlfest.com Grrl Fair in Santa Ana started in 2001 and ran through 2013. Organizers were inspired by fests like Ladyfest and Homo-a-gogo and wanted to bring DIY feminist punk ethos to their community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857810", "title": "Unite and Win", "text": "Unite and Win\n\nUnite and Win! is an oi!/anarcho-punk album by the band Oi Polloi. It was originally released in 1987 on \"Oi! Records\", and re-released in 2001 on \"Step 1 Records\" with eight extra songs.\n\nThe phrase \"\"Unite and Win\"\" refers to the desire for unification between the punk and skinhead subcultures. According to the band, if British working class people united, they would succeed in a fight against both the Margaret Thatcher government and totalitarian ideologies like communism and nazism (as described in the song, \"\"Commies and Nazis\"\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1857812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857812", "title": "Dietrich, Count of Oldenburg", "text": "Dietrich, Count of Oldenburg\n\nDietrich or Theoderic of Oldenburg (c. 1398 – 14 February 1440) was a feudal lord in Northern Germany, holding the counties of Delmenhorst and Oldenburg. He was called \"Fortunatus\", as he was able to secure Delmenhorst for his branch of the Oldenburgs.\n\nDietrich was the father of Christian I of Denmark, who would go on to start the current dynasty of the Danish throne.\n\nDietrich of Oldenburg was the son of Christian V of Oldenburg, who became the Count circa 1398 and died in 1403. His mother was the Countess Agnes of Honstein. His grandfather, Conrad I of Oldenburg, who died circa 1368, left his lands divided between Dietrich's father and uncle, Conrad II.\n\nDietrich’s father, Christian V, managed to gain the upper hand when Conrad II's son Maurice II died in 1420. After this, most of the Oldenburg family patrimony was under the rule of Dietrich’s branch. However, the house had several minor branches with estates and claims, as was usual in any medieval fief.\n\nDietrich of Oldenburg was the grandson of Ingeborg of Itzehoe, a Holstein princess who had married Count Conrad I of Oldenburg. After the death of her only brother, Count Gerhard V of Holstein-Itzehoe-Plön in 1350, Ingeborg and her issue were the heirs of her grandmother Ingeborg of Sweden (d. \"ca.\" 1290, the first wife of Gerhard II of Holstein-Plön), the eldest daughter of King Valdemar of Sweden and Queen Sophia, who herself was the eldest daughter of King Eric IV of Denmark and his wife Jutta of Saxony who had no male descendants. Since there were no other living legitimate descendants of King Valdemar by this time, Dietrich was considered the heir general of Kings Valdemar I of Sweden and Eric IV of Denmark.\n\nDietrich succeeded his father as head of the House of Oldenburg in 1403.\n\nDuring his childhood, Dietrich married a distant cousin, the Countess Adelheid of Oldenburg-Delmenhorst, daughter of Oldenburg Count Otto IV of Delmenhorst, for reasons of succession and uniting the hereditary fiefs. Countess Adelheid is presumed to have died in 1404. In 1423, Dietrich married again, to Helvig of Schauenburg (born between 1398–1400 and died in 1436), widow of Prince Balthasar of Mecklenburg and daughter of the murdered Duke Gerhard VI of Schleswig and Holstein and his wife Elisabeth of Brunswick and, thus, sister of the reigning Duke Adolf VIII. All his legitimate children were born by his second wife.\n\nHis second marriage strengthened this interest in the Scandinavian monarchies since Helvig was a descendant of King Eric V of Denmark, King Haakon V of Norway and King Magnus I of Sweden.\n\nAt this time, Scandinavia was ruled by the Kalmar Union, established by Queen Margarethe I of Denmark. In 1387, she had lost her heir Olav IV of Norway, who was succeeded as heir by Eric of Pomerania and his sister Catherine, who was married to a prince of the Palatinate and Bavaria.\n\nDietrich of Oldenburg is said to have been a rival claimant to the crowns of Sweden and Denmark during the reign of Eric VII/Eric XIII, whose succession was through Christopher I of Denmark, the younger brother of the murdered Eric IV, and through Magnus I of Sweden, younger brother of the deposed King Valdemar.\n\nCount Theodoric had three surviving sons and one daughter:\n\nChristian (1426–1481); who succeeded him as Count of Oldenburg and Delmenhorst, and later became King Christian I of Denmark, Norway, and Sweden (following the deposition of Charles VII of Sweden), as well as Duke of Schleswig and Holstein. He would found the House of Oldenburg Dynasty in Denmark that still rules to this day.\n\nMaurice V of Delmenhorst (1428–1464); when his elder brother became king, he was given the County of Delmenhorst.\n\nGerhard VI, Count of Oldenburg (1430–1500); two years after his eldest brother had become king, he was given the county of Oldenburg, and from his other brother's heirs, he also inherited Delmenhorst in about 1483. The third son got his name from usages of the mother's Holstein clan.\n\nAdelheid (1425–1475), first married Ernest III, the Count of Hohnstein (d. 1454) and then, in 1474, Gerhard VI, Count of Mansfeld (d. 1492).\n\nDietrich of Oldenburg is a direct ancestor of the Danish royal family having given birth to the first House of Oldenburg King of Denmark, Christian I. He is also a direct ancestor of the British Royal Family, the pretenders to the Kingdom of the Hellenes, the Norwegian royal family, and the last Russian czars of Romanov-Holstein-Gottorp.\n\n\nArchaeologisches Landesmuseum/Bibliothek - Schloß Gottorf, Schleswig"}
{"id": "1857819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857819", "title": "In Defence of Our Earth", "text": "In Defence of Our Earth\n\nIn Defence Of Our Earth is an anarcho-punk album, by the band Oi Polloi. It was released in 1990 on Words Of Warning Records.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857820", "title": "Giles Alexander Smith", "text": "Giles Alexander Smith\n\nGiles Alexander Smith (September 29, 1829 – November 8, 1876), was a general in the Union Army during the American Civil War.\n\nSmith was born in Jefferson County, New York. When he was 18, he moved to southwestern Ohio, and for a decade engaged in business in Cincinnati. In the late 1850s, he moved to Bloomington, Illinois, where he was proprietor of a hotel.\n\nAt the beginning of the Civil War, he joined the 8th Missouri Volunteer Infantry, in which he became a captain. He took part in the capture of Fort Donelson, the Battle of Shiloh, and the operations against Corinth, becoming, later in 1862, colonel of a regiment which he led at Chickasaw Bayou. After the final campaign against Vicksburg, on August 4, 1863 he was appointed brigadier general of volunteers to rank from August 4, 1863. He was wounded at the Third Battle of Chattanooga. He took part in the Atlanta Campaign, the March to the Sea and the Carolinas Campaign. He was appointed to the rank of major general of volunteers on November 24, 1865, the last one based on seniority for the Civil War.\n\nHis brother Morgan Lewis Smith was a Union Army brigadier general of volunteers.\n\nAfter the war, Smith declined the offer of a colonelcy in the Regular Army. He was mustered out of the volunteers on February 1, 1866. He was subsequently engaged in Illinois politics, retiring from public life in 1872. Smith was an Illinois delegate to the Republican National Convention. He moved to California in 1874 in a futile attempt to improve his health, but returned to Illinois two months before his death. He died at Bloomington, Illinois, and was buried in Bloomington Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857823", "title": "The General (locomotive)", "text": "The General (locomotive)\n\nWestern & Atlantic Railroad #3 \"General\" is a 4-4-0 \"American\" type steam locomotive built in 1855 by the Rogers, Ketchum & Grosvenor in Paterson, New Jersey for the Western & Atlantic Railroad, best known as the engine stolen by Union spies in the Great Locomotive Chase, an attempt to cripple the Confederate rail network during the American Civil War. Today, the locomotive is preserved at the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History in Kennesaw, Georgia, and is listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nBuilt in 1855 by Rogers, Ketchum & Grosvenor in Paterson, New Jersey, \"The General\" provided freight and passenger service between Atlanta, Georgia, and Chattanooga, Tennessee, before the Civil War on the Western and Atlantic Railroad of the State of Georgia and later, the Western and Atlantic Railroad Company.\n\nDuring the Civil War on April 12, 1862, \"The General\" was commandeered by Northerners led by James J. Andrews at Big Shanty (now Kennesaw, Georgia), and abandoned north of Ringgold, after being pursued by William Allen Fuller and the \"Texas\". Low on water and wood, the \"General\" eventually lost steam pressure and speed, and slowed to a halt two miles north of Ringgold, where Andrews and his raiders abandoned the locomotive and tried to flee.\n\nIn 1864, the Battle of Atlanta had forced the withdrawal of General John Bell Hood's forces from the city. Hood ordered the ordnance depot destroyed as he left Atlanta on September 1, 1864. To this end, the General was severely damaged by being run into boxcars of ammunition and the Missouri locomotive. This was done deliberately so as to render the engine unusable for the approaching Union forces.\n\nIt had been speculated by some that, after the \"General\" had been damaged, the invading Union army restored the engine and operated it. However, many historians believe that the engine was left untouched for the remainder of the war. The Union army had based its repair shops in Nashville, and there is no evidence to suggest the engine was moved there. The United States Military Railroad Service had many new or like-new engines, so they had no need to restore captured ones such as the \"General\". The USMRR had often left the damaged equipment of a captured railroad undisturbed, and its records, having listed the \"General\" as \"captured and returned,\" further suggest such was the case of the \"General\".\n\nAfter the war ended, the \"General\" was repaired and continued service on the Western and Atlantic. In the 1870s, the \"General\" was completely rebuilt, it had received a new pilot, boiler, and other components. Most notably, its three dome configuration was reduced to two domes, and its Radley-Hunter style balloon stack was replaced with a diamond stack, as the engine had been converted to burn coal. Indeed, the rebuilt engine had little resemblance to its original form.\n\nBefore the Civil War, most railways in the south, including the W&A, did not give their engines numbers. Rather, they were simply named, such as the \"General\". When the railroad began numbering engines after the war, the \"General\" was the 39th engine to be acquired by the road, and was numbered accordingly. Locomotives came and went as years progressed, and by 1880, a renumbering was necessary. At this time, the \"General\" was given the number \"3,\" being the third oldest engine that the railroad had at the time. The engine continues to carry this number today.\n\nIn the mid-1880s, the Atlanta and Florida Railroad began construction. During this time, the W&A had a locomotive surplus after buying several more modern engines, so they leased the \"General\" to the A&F from 1887 to 1888 to assist in construction.\n\nThe locomotive was originally built to the southern states standard rail gauge of . After a change to the northern states gauge was mandated by June 1, 1886, \"The General\" was converted to be compatible with the U.S. Standard Gauge of .\n\nThe \"General\" was retired from service in 1891 and stored on a siding in Vinings, GA where it awaited its final fate. Early the next year, E. Warren Clark, a professional photographer, discovered the engine in Vinings, and approached John W. Thomas, president of the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis Railway (which had won the lease on the Western and Atlantic Railroad of the State of Georgia in 1890), with the proposal of restoring the \"General\" for exhibition at the upcoming World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Thomas approved of the idea, and the \"General\" was soon taken to the NC&StL Ry Shops at West Nashville to be restored. At this time, the engine was given a Radley-Hunter style balloon stack similar to the engine's original, and was reverted to a wood burner. The engine had been restored by 1892, a year before the exposition. During this time, the engine traveled to Chattanooga to attend a reunion of the Army of the Cumberland veterans. This trip made apparent the difficulties associated with wood burning, so the engine was returned to a coal burner by the end of the year. The engine was given a unique new stack at this time, one that, while designed for coal burning, was styled like the original so as to give the appearance of a wood burner.\n\nIn 1901, the \"General\" was placed on display in the Chattanooga Union Depot. There, it remained on display for nearly fifty years, only being removed for short periods for exhibitions. In particular, the engine was taken to Baltimore in 1927 to participate in the Baltimore and Ohio Railroad's \"Fair of the Iron Horse\", then in 1933 to Chicago's \"Century of Progress\" Exhibition, the 1939 New York World's Fair, and finally, the Chicago Railroad Fair in 1948.\n\nIn 1957, the Louisville and Nashville Railroad had acquired the Nashville, Chattanooga and St. Louis, including its lease of the Western and Atlantic, and began planning to restore the General to operation for the American Civil War Centennial. In 1959, the \"General\" was removed from the Chattanooga Union Depot and taken to the railroad's South Louisville Shops to be restored. As part of the restoration, the \"General\" was given modern air brakes, a modern coupler (only on the tender, the older style coupler on the engine's front pilot remained), and was converted to burn oil. Throughout the 1960s, the engine pulled Louisville and Nashville Combine Car Number 665 as it traveled to various places across the eastern US, including the 1964 New York World's Fair under its own power.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, the state of Georgia began to express interest in reclaiming the engine. Indeed, many proposals about the \"General\" had arisen since the 1930s, while it was still on display at Chattanooga, including plans to have the \"General\" be displayed in Underground Atlanta, Kennesaw Mountain, or at Stone Mountain Park, among others, some of which even included removing the Texas from the Cyclorama to be displayed with the engine. While much press coverage was given about these proposals, none of them had ever materialized. Even the city of Paterson, New Jersey, where the locomotive was built, expressed interest, since many engines had been built by Rogers and other firms in the city, but had none to display. Paterson eventually withdrew their proposal and sought other engines to display.\n\nThe state of Georgia's interest in the \"General\" soon raised tensions with the city of Chattanooga, where the \"General\" was displayed. In 1967, the city of Kennesaw, where the engine had been stolen in 1862, requested to have the engine attend a fundraiser held by the Big Shanty Historical Society. The \"General\" was on its way there, when it was stopped by a group led by Chattanooga's mayor, Ralph H. Kelley. He believed the engine belonged to the city, and a lawsuit had been filed against the L&N concerning custody of the engine.\n\nOn January 4, 1969, Judge Frank W. Wilson, U.S. District Judge in Chattanooga ruled that the engine belonged to the L&N, who could dispose of it as they desired. The city of Chattanooga appealed, and the case was referred to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Sixth District. The latter upheld Wilson's ruling, and the city appealed once more, sending the case to the Supreme Court of the United States. The city of Chattanooga's appeal was dismissed by the Supreme Court, thus making Wilson's ruling final. The \"General\" was stored in Louisville during this time, only being publicly displayed over a weekend in November 1971, when it was displayed in the city's Union Station alongside the road's newer diesel engine no. 1776.\n\nAfter the L&N won the legal dispute concerning the engine's custody in 1970, they brought the engine to Atlanta via the former Atlanta, Knoxville and Northern Railway line from Knoxville through Etowah, to Marietta, bypassing Chattanooga. In February 1972, a ceremony was held in Atlanta where L&N president Kendall formally presented the \"General\" to then state governor (and later President of the United States) Jimmy Carter. Afterwards, the engine was moved to Kennesaw where a museum site was prepared. On April 12, 1972, the Big Shanty Museum (later known as the Southern Museum of Civil War and Locomotive History) opened, and the \"General\" remained on display there since.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857828", "title": "Gudja", "text": "Gudja\n\nGudja is a village in the Southern Region of Malta, with a population of 3,148 as of March 2017. The village is located on high grounds, south of Valletta. It is administered by the Gudja Local Council. A number of schools, clubs, public gardens and recreations places are found around the village. The Malta International Airport is also located in Gudja. \n\nThe area has been inhabited since prehistoric times, evident from remains still \"in situ\". Scarce Punic remains were found in an area known as Xlejli, within the village. Several remains of the Roman period are scattered in the whereabouts, notoriously the Ħal Resqun Catacombs. The area was inhabited during the Arab and subsequent medieval periods, and the settling found today dates to the Order of St. John. The centre of the village further developed during the British period, after which a number of modern neighbourhoods were built.\n\nThe village has a concentration of churches, some dating to the medieval period, and other secular historic buildings such as Palazzo Dorell. Prominent buildings are now scheduled as Grade 1 or 2. Some buildings and a number of niches and statues are listed on the National Inventory of the Cultural Property of the Maltese Islands.\n\n\"Gudja\" means a land located on a higher ground but not a hill, with an approximately round peripheries. \n\nGudja's coat of arms bears the motto \"\", which means \"Mother of many children\". These children are Safi, Kirkop, Ħal-Farruġ, Luqa, Mqabba, Birżebbuġa and Tarxien, which at one time were all part of the parish church of Gudja. From Tarxien then, another three parishes emerged: Fgura, Santa Luċija and the Christ the King Parish of Paola. Then again, from the latter, another parish emerged: the Our Lady of Lourdes parish at Paola.\n\nGudja was inhabited since prehistory, as evidenced by Ta’ Għewra dolmen. Other pre-historic remains are found in Gudja, such as those at the entrance close to the Malta International Airport. as well as the Paleochristian catacomb known as ta' Ħal Resqun which are more than 1,600 years old. They were originally excavated by Sir Temi Zammit in 1912, and have only been re-discovered in 2006 by officers of the Superintendence of Cultural Heritage close to the Malta International Airport.\n\nThe oldest, still in use, houses in Gudja date to at least 1533. A house built by this date is located in the whereabouts close to the main square. A Gothic inscription, with Sicilian influence and Greek letters, sheds history on this residence. Though the words in relief are largely unreadable, there are old photographs and documentation on the considerably unusual inscription.\n\nAn unusual tower dating to 1780 was built on the spot of a possible Punic-Roman tower, in an area known as Xlejli. A palace, known as Palazzo Dorell, was built nearby and its garden has enclosed the tower within its grounds. The palace served as the headquarters for British forces under General Graham during the French blockade of 1798–1800.\nThe Baroque parish church is dedicated to the Assumption of the Virgin Mary, and it is the only one in Malta with three bell towers. The most conspicuous of these is the non-symmetric Neoclassical William Baker Tower. \n\nThe interior of the church is decorated with objets d'art. The titular painting is that of the Assumption of the Virgin, painted by Italian artist Pietro Gagliardi in 1887. The same painter was commissioned for the \"Our Lady of Mount Carmel\" painting in 1889. Another notable painting is \"The Death of Saint Joseph\", by Italian artist Domenico Bruschi in 1894. The most important sculpture, inside the church, is the titular statue of the Assumption of Our Lady, sculpted out of solid wood, in 1807, by the Maltese Vincenzo Dimech. It is the oldest statue in the Maltese Islands featuring the Assumption of Our Lady\nGudja is known for its 15th century Chapel of Bir Miftuħ. Bir Miftuh was already established as a parish by 1436, making it one of the first parishes on the Maltese Islands. Pre-historic stones are found close to the site, now forming part of a rubble wall.\n\nThe Chapel of the Madonna of Loreto was built in 1548 by Knight Imbert de Morine as thanksgiving for his safekeeping during a Turkish battle which took place in the area. It was probably built on the same grounds where an older chapel stood.\n\nThe Chapel of St Catherine, found at Raymond Caruana street, is an Early Modern church on the site of an earlier chapel.\n\nRaymond Caruana Street was named for murder victim Raymond Caruana. His assassination took place at the Nationalist Party Club and was politically motivated.\n\nThe Chapel of the Annunciation dates to 1754. According to the pastoral visit of Bishop Bartolomeo Rull, the chapel was built on the design of a Greek cross plan and with a dome. The facade is plain with strategically placed architectural feats. Flanking either side of the facade, there are two flat austere looking Doric pilasters which are topped by a blank entablature. The main portal is surrounded with a stone moulding with emphasis on the two corners above the door. Above the door is a triangular pediment with an arch embedded within. Piercing the facade, there is a window executed in the Baroque style. This window and a square belfry on top were added by sculpture and mason Anglu Dalli on the design of Carlo Farrugia. At the corners of the facade are two statues representing St Anne and Sr Joachim while on the belfry there is a figure of archangel Gabriel. These are the work of Antonio Zammit.\n\nThe architect Girolamo Cassar, who is known for designing many buildings in Valletta, was possibly born in Gudja.\n\n\n\n\n\nGudja's football team is known as Gudja United F.C.. They compete in the BOV Premier League after achieving a historic promotion form the 1st Division in 2019.\n\nThe club was officially founded in 1945 by a young group of football enthusiasts. However, the first-ever official participation in the Maltese Leagues was recorded in season 1949–1950. The initial club colours were known to be black and white but were later replaced by red which represented and still represents to date our town emblem. However, later in time, there was another change in the official home colours. This time the club decided to adopt the blue and white colours which represent the colours of the patron saint of Gudja, The Lady of Saint Mary.\n\nThe local authority responsible for Gudja and its constituents is the Gudja Local Council, which is made up of five democratically-elected Councillors. The first Local Council elections in Gudja took place in 1994 after the Local Councils Act was approved in Parliament in 1993. Since then, a further seven elections took place - in 1997, 2000, 2003, 2006, 2009, 2013 and 2019. For the first few years, Local Councils served for a mandate of three years while for the 2009 - 2013 term, the mandate was increased to four years. The current Local Council is expected to serve till 2024, due to changes in the Act itself, which extended the term served to five years to coincide with the European Parliament elections, which also take place every five years.\n"}
{"id": "1857834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857834", "title": "Freddie Fitzsimmons", "text": "Freddie Fitzsimmons\n\nFrederick Landis Fitzsimmons (July 28, 1901 – November 18, 1979) was an American professional baseball right-handed pitcher, manager, and coach, who played in Major League Baseball (MLB) from to with the New York Giants and Brooklyn Dodgers. Nicknamed Fat Freddie (he carried as much as on his frame), and known for his mastery of the knuckle curve, Fitzsimmons' 217 wins were the third most by a National League (NL) right-hander in the period from to , trailing only Burleigh Grimes and Paul Derringer. In he set an NL record, which stood until , with a single-season winning percentage of .889 (16–2). He was an agile fielder in spite of his heavy build, holding the major league record for career double plays (79) from to , and tying another record by leading the league in putouts four times; he ranked eighth in NL history in putouts (237) and ninth in fielding percentage (.977) when his career ended.\n\nBorn in Mishawaka, Indiana, Fitzsimmons broke in with the Giants in August 1925, posting a 6–3 record over the rest of the year. After seasons of 14 and 17 wins, he earned a career-high 20 victories in 1928, a year which saw the arrival of teammate Carl Hubbell; until Fitzsimmons' departure in , the two formed a formidable left-right combination at the heart of the Giants' staff. In he led the NL in winning percentage for the first time with a 19–7 record (.731), and an 18–11 season followed in . In , the first full season after Bill Terry took over from John McGraw as manager, he won 16 games with a 2.90 earned run average as the Giants won the NL pennant; in the 1933 World Series against the Washington Senators, he suffered a 4–0 defeat in Game 3, though it was New York's only loss as they captured their first title since .\n\nFitzsimmons had another 18-win season in , and led the NL in putouts for the fourth time, tying Grover Cleveland Alexander's major league mark. However, his career then began to plateau. He had years of 4–8 and 10–7 in and , with the Giants winning the NL pennant again the latter year; he led the NL in shutouts in , blanking opponents in all 4 of his victories. His troubles returned in the 1936 World Series against the New York Yankees; he lost Game 3 by a 2–1 score, and was bombarded in the final Game 6 loss, leaving in the fourth inning while trailing 5–2. After a 6–10 start in , he was traded to the Dodgers in June for reliever Tom Baker, who made only 15 appearances for the Giants. Brooklyn shortstop Leo Durocher praised his new teammate's competitiveness, saying, \"I wish we had nine guys like Fitz. We'd never lose.\" Though his record in – totaled only 18–17, in he tied Grimes' mark of 74 career double plays, passing him the following year; Warren Spahn broke his record in . He came back in with a 16–2 campaign, finishing fifth in the MVP voting. His .889 winning percentage broke the NL record of .842 (16–3) shared by Tom L. Hughes ( Boston Braves) and Emil Yde ( Pittsburgh Pirates), and stood until Roy Face posted an 18–1 mark (.947) with the Pirates.\n\nFitzsimmons made only 12 starts in , going 6–1 as the Dodgers won their first pennant since . He almost earned his long-elusive World Series victory against the Yankees, holding them to four hits through seven innings in Game 3. But he was forced to leave with a 0–0 score after being struck in the kneecap by a line drive hit by Marius Russo, which caromed into Pee Wee Reese's glove to end the inning. His replacement surrendered two runs in the eighth, and New York triumphed 2–1.\n\nFollowing his knee injury, Fitzsimmons made only one start in and served as a coach on player-manager Durocher's staff. He then returned to the active list and made nine appearances for the Dodgers before Brooklyn released him July 27. The following day, the tail-ending Philadelphia Phillies tabbed him as their manager, replacing Bucky Harris and ending Fitzsimmons' playing career. He compiled a 217–146 (.598) record with an ERA of 3.51 and 870 strikeouts in 513 games and 3,223 innings pitched.\n\nFitzsimmons was a better than average hitting pitcher in his career. He compiled a .200 average (231–1155) with 112 runs, 103 RBI and 14 home runs. In , , and as a member of the New York Giants, he drove in 13, 18, and 10 runs respectively. In four World Series appearances, he batted .375 (3–8).\n\nHe managed the Phillies through the middle of the season, compiling only 105 wins against 181 losses (.367). In and , he also served as general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers in the All-America Football Conference. After World War II, Fitzsimmons became a coach with the Boston Braves (), Giants (–), Chicago Cubs (–; ), and Kansas City Athletics (). He also managed in minor league baseball. On Durocher's Giants staff, Fitzsimmons finally earned a championship as a coach for the 1954 World Series team.\n\nBob Lemon broke the major league mark shared by Fitzsimmons by leading the American League in putouts five times between and ; Greg Maddux eventually broke the NL record.\n\nFitzsimmons died of a heart attack at age 78 in Yucca Valley, California. He was buried at Montecito Memorial Park, in Colton, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857840", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857840", "title": "Għargħur", "text": "Għargħur\n\nGħargħur () is a village in the Northern Region of Malta. It is situated on a hilltop between two valleys, and it has a population of 2,768 as of March 2014.\n\nIn Malta, each village celebrates a different patron saint or two depending on the number of churches in the locality. Each church is dedicated to a different saint. For this reason, some villages celebrate more than one “festa” per year. The village band clubs, at times in collaboration with the members of the parish, are tasked with the organisation of the “festa”. The competition between the band clubs can be quite fierce when it comes to the organisation of decorations and the fireworks shows, even if there is only one “festa” in the village. It gets even tougher when the locality celebrates two different patron saints, each honoured by an individual band club.\nThe “festi” are held over the summer months. This is a time of great merrymaking for the local community. In fact, there are a lot of traditions and customs associated with the “festa”. Attending the “festa” can be a bit of a culture shock as it can get really noisy and loud. \nThe Għargħur Festa is on the twenty-fourth August or the last Sunday of August. For a whole week, Għargħur enjoys a celebratory festive mood, as it is wholly decorated in colourful lights, statues and other street decorations. The brass band marches take place throughout the evenings on the days prior to the “festa”, accompanied by spectacular fireworks, together with the nougat and ice cream stalls distributed around the village.\nOn the day of the feast of St. Bartholomew, there is a procession around Għargħur with the titular statue of the saint followed by brass bands and a crowd of devout ones. \nIts coat of arms is divided per chevron, silver and red, with a red star on the silver part. The motto is 'Excelsior' meaning \"higher\". The motto tells that the town is on the highest hill in Malta. In the Maltese dictionary \"Lexicon\", of 1796, Vassalli gives a description of Għargħur in Italian as \"Bel Villaggio alla parte settentrionale di Malta\" (\"A pretty village in the northern part of Malta\").\n\nIn modern times a controversy has risen over the real name of this village - whether it should be called Gargur or Ħal Għargħur. The original name was Ħal Għargħur (pronounced har arauwr or hal arauwr). 'Ħal' is an old abbreviation of 'Raħal', which means a \"village/small town\". Most probably, the name Ħal Għargħur derives from the għargħar, the Maltese word for flooding, also Malta's national tree - siġra tal-għargħar - though this usage is less known. \n'Għargħur' is quite unlikely to be derived from 'Gregorio', even though in the middle of the 15th century, the village was called Casal Gregorio; the Maltese equivalent of the name Gregorio is \"Girgor\", not \"Għargħur\".\n\nIn the north-eastern part of Malta there are other place names which possibly refer to flooding. These are San Ġwann ta' l-Għargħar and Il-Ħotba tal-Għargħar. The \"Gargur\" pronunciation is possibly related to the influence of past rulers of Malta (French, Spanish, Italian or British) who were confused by the use of the Maltese consonant għ, the equivalent of the Arabic/Semitic ayin. The name Casal Gregorio emerged most likely because for a long time, the Romance rulers of Malta and most literate persons were priests, pharmacists, doctors or lawyers who had studied Latin but not Arabic, the basis of the Maltese language, and so were similarly confused when transliterating Għargħur. \nSimilar examples are the names of the town of Żurrieq, which on official documents appeared as Zurico (Zurich) and Naxxar, which on various documents and maps was referred to as Nasciaro. \nUnrelatedly, in Hebrew, Gargur or Gargiur is a name given to small communities.\n\nSome Roman artifacts, found during road construction, were carried to the Domvs Romana, a Roman Villa and Museum, situated in the old city of Mdina. A Muslim-style oven is still found in a house in Sqaq Warda, and a home with Arab-style decorations on the façade exists in the same area. There is documented reference of Ħal Għargħur as far back as 1419, in the lists of the \"Dejma\", which was a Militia that guarded the locals from pirate attacks. The settlement suffered from severe de-population during the High Middle Ages and some years later due to continuous pirate attacks. Exiles from the central Italian city of Celano settled in Ħal Għargħur and built the town's oldest church, that of St. John (next to which one finds the town's graveyard). The citizens of Celano were exiled in the year 1223 by Emperor Frederick II.\n\nThe main event of the year is the village festa which is celebrated on the 24th (if this turns out to be a Sunday) or the last Sunday of August. The statue of the saint is carried shoulder high along the illuminated streets of the village accompanied by musical bands. A display of colourful fireworks, ends the village festival. Many tourists tend to take part in the celebration of the saint's day, by visiting the church and the well-known fireworks display.\n\nThere is little written information about the people of Għargħur in earlier days. One source of information is the Dejma list, which mentions Għargħur in conjunction with Ħal Samudi (Madliena). In the Middle Ages, Għargħur was most probably a very small rural community. An abbey was established in Ħal Għargħur in the Middle Ages, in an area now called Tar-Rħieb (Friars' (old Maltese) place). There is no evidence as to when and why this abbey was abandoned, but the reason could have been the constant pirate attacks on the village, which led to a severe depopulation of both Għargħur and nearby settlements. During these raids, settlements were looted and those considered valuable enough were taken into slavery. Indeed, in this period houses in Għargħur were built so as to allow the residents to lock themselves in. One feature of these houses was a secret room in which females used to hide during these attacks. Also, the old streets and alleys are planned in a way that would confuse visitors. These raids continued well into the years, even after Għargħur became a parish. Indeed, on one occasion the residents of Għargħur found refuge in the parish church and vowed that if they were unharmed, there would be an annual pilgrimage to the shrine of [Mellieħa]. Nobody was harmed or taken into slavery on that occasion, and thus the tradition of holding this pilgrimage was started. \nAs regards places of worship, it is likely that the early Christians used some of the caves found in the village as churches. Two such caves are those found at Ġebel San Pietru (Saint Peter's Hill (Old Maltese) or Stone (Modern Maltese)) and Għar San Brinkat (Saint Patrick's cave). Later on chapels were built. St. John the Baptist's chapel is considered to be the first chapel built in Għargħur, even though it was rebuilt in the 17th century and the existing chapel is not the medieval original. Another two medieval chapels were those of St Nicholas and St Bartholomew in the village of Għargħur; those of St Catherine and St Gregory (both in Xwieki); and St Mary Magdalene (Madliena) in the surrounding countryside.\n\nPrior to 1598, Ħal Għargħur was part of the Naxxar parish. However, in 1598 Bishop Gargallo (for whom one finds a street named in Ħal Għargħur) decided to grant the people of Ħal Għargħur the charter establishing a parish. Thus, the first baptisms, marriages and funerals started being done in Ħal Għargħur. Dun Mattew Schiriha from Senglea, responsible for the chapel of Saint Bartholomew (which existed on the site of the present parish church), started signing documents as \"Cappellano della parrochia di Casal Gregorio\".\n\nThe Naxxar parish refused to accept the new status of Ħal Għargħur. Dun Giljan Borg, parish priest of Naxxar, complained about the financial loss that Naxxar would suffer with the separation from it of Ħal Għargħur and stated that the Naxxar parish was losing the authority it had over the Ħal Għargħur community. Although Ħal Għargħur and Mosta formed part of the Naxxar parish, both were regarded as being separate entities from Naxxar; on the birth registers of Naxxar, at the time when the two villages fell under Naxxar, it was written next to the person's name whether he was from Naxxar, Mosta or Ħal Għargħur.\n\nThe new status of Ħal Għargħur was suspended in 1601 by the Bishop's curia. This was done because Borg's health was deteriorating due to this problem. The Ħal Għargħur community complained about the situation to the Inquisitor, Monsigneur Verallo, who decided in 1604 that Saint Bartholomew's church could be used again as a parish church, despite the fact that officially it had been re-integrated into Naxxar. With the death of Rev. Borg in 1610, Bishop Gargallo felt that he could finally confirm Ħal Għargħur's status as a separate parish. The residents of Ħal Għargħur, most of whom were farmers, promised that they would give part of their produce (cotton, wheat and barley) for the preservation of the parish.\n\nĦal Għargħur was a rural community located in an area particularly lacking fertile soil and fresh water. Nevertheless, the inhabitants of this area were able to finance the building of a parish church and several other chapels which host Baroque fine arts. The main attraction of the village, besides the countryside, is the Church of St Bartholomew. Its interior is of the Doric order but it has a fine Baroque façade. The original façade was demolished and the one seen today was built in 1743. The church was built between 1610 and 1638 and was designed by Maltese architect Tumas Dingli.\n\nIts treasures include a wooden statue of Saint Bartholomew sculptured in Rome attributed to Maltese artist Melchiorre Gafà. The statue was made circa 1666 and it is believed to be the model for the similar statue in San Giovanni Laterano, Rome. It was brought to the town in 1772. Restorations on it were held in 1912. In 2005 the statue had further preservation and its niche was restructured. The statue is the second heaviest in the Maltese islands.\n\nThe Victoria Lines, named after Queen Victoria, and which divide the island of Malta from east to west, pass through this locality. Other fortifications can also be found. Għargħur hosts much of Malta's telecommunication infrastructure.\n\nBefore World War II and prior to the installation of radar, a concave wall was constructed in Ħal Għargħur with the aim of detecting incoming aircraft. This acoustic mirror is called \"il-Widna\" by locals (lit. \"the ear\"). Ħal Għargħur hosted a number a refugees from the harbour area during that war. These refugees were seeking shelter from the continuous air raids by the Axis Powers. The public school was used as a dormitory for these refugees.\n\nTraditionally, the people of Għargħur spoke in their own dialect. This dialect, like others on the island of Malta, is highly endangered. This is mainly due to the influence of the media, in which the dialect of the harbour area is used, and an education system which discourages the use of dialects. A socio-cultural stigma associated with dialects also contributed to the gradual demise of the dialect. As older generations stopped talking to their children in dialect, the dialect started dying out.\n\nThere are various features associated with this dialect. One of them is the pronunciation of the letter \"Q\" in certain words, namely \"daħq\", \"ċagħaq\", \"qagħaq\" and \"sriedaq\", as a voiceless uvular plosive (similar to a \"k\"). In standard Maltese, the Q is pronounced as a glottal stop. Another feature, which however now has largely disappeared, is the pronunciation of the \"h\", which is otherwise silent in Maltese. Another feature is an untrilled \"R\", a letter which is normally trilled in standard Maltese. A word which is associated with this dialect is \"ħuuri\", which means \"look\". In the Ħal Għargħur dialect, a kite is called \"ħamiema (ħemiema)\" (pigeon), while in standard Maltese it is called tajra. The traditional Maltese female garb, the għonnella, was called stamijna in the Għargħur dialect. The silent h (\"akka\") in Maltese was previously spoken in this dialect, and it still is by a few elder members of the community. \n\nSome words that in Standard Maltese are homophones are not homophones in the Għargħur dialect. Two such words are ħajt and dar. Ħajt (thread) is pronounced as ħajt while ħajt (wall) is pronounced as ħæjt. Dar (home) is pronounced as dôr while dar (he turned around) is pronounced as dor. \n\nTh interjection \"ħûri\" is commonly used in this dialect, where \"ħares\" or \"ara\" would be used in Standard Maltese. \n\nThe following are some words as spoken in the Għargħur dialect:\n\nOne of the legends found in Għargħur is that of St. Patrick's Cave (Għar San Brinkat). It was believed, in the old times, that demons had infested this cave. Thus, people were afraid to pass by it. Once, a painting on wood that featured a crucified Christ and St. Patrick came ashore in Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq. Promptly, the people of Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq took the painting to this cave and the demons left. A spring found in this cave was said to be miraculous, however the faithful stopped drinking from it after lepers started bathing in it in order to heal. The painting can still be seen in the cave, a mass is said here once a year, when a small feast is held.\n\nGħargħur is the home of the Dwal Ġodda Theatre Company, whose aim is to present Maltese theatre in its cultural setting. Dwal Ġodda's repertoire includes works of members of the group, mainly the prolific playwright Martin Gauci, as well as classic plays by international dramatists and work by living writers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857846", "title": "List of LDPR deputies in the State Duma", "text": "List of LDPR deputies in the State Duma\n\nThese are the current members of Vladimir Zhirinovsky's far-right LDPR political party (formerly Liberal Democratic Party of Russia) in the State Duma, the lower house of Parliament of Russia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857849", "title": "Fight Back! (Oi Polloi album)", "text": "Fight Back! (Oi Polloi album)\n\nFight Back! is an anarcho-punk collection album, by the band Oi Polloi, with the Oi Polloi songs from the old splits \"\"Unlimited Genocide\"\" with A.O.A. and \"\"Skins 'N' Punks Volume Two\"\" with Betrayed. This 1994 LP was released as a re-release of the old splits, but only with the Oi Polloi material.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857851", "title": "Hamrun", "text": "Hamrun\n\nHamrun (; ) is a town in the Southern Region of Malta, with a population of 9,244 as of March 2014.\n\nThe townspeople are traditionally known as \"Tas-Sikkina\" (literally meaning 'of the knife' or 'those who carry a knife') or as \"Ta' Werwer\" (which literally means 'those who scare' or more colloquially, 'the scary ones'). This appellation could stem from the fact that a considerable number of used to work as stevedores on the docks and thus carried a knife at all times. Another theory was that the community of Sicilians who settled here illegally in the 16th century danced a traditional dance which involved the wielding of small stilettos which they carried in their socks, waving them in the air and back to their sheaths.\n\nSan Ġorġ Preca (founder of the Society of Christian Doctrine) although born in Valletta, lived most of his life in Hamrun. He is buried in a Chapel in Hamrun. It is the home town of former Prime Minister Karmenu Mifsud Bonnici and of Presidents Anton Buttigieg and Guido de Marco. The founder of the Malta Workers' Union (UHM), Salvino Spiteri, was born and lived here.\n\nHamrun gave birth to several important artists and men of letters. Notable persons from Hamrun are the actor and lyrical singer Oreste Kirkop, who is remembered mostly for his role in \"The Vagabond King\", and Maltese poet and theatre director Mario Azzopardi (born in 1944), who has a strong reputation for introducing new, radical poetry in Malta in the Sixties and who became the artistic director of the Malta Drama Centre (est. 1979). Josephine Zammit Cordina is a well-known actress and TV personality. She is also associated with Australia being the presenter of the Radio Programme \"Boomerang\" and TV programme \"Waltzing Matilda\". She was honoured by the Government of Malta (Ġieħ Ir-Republika) and the Government of Australia (Honorary Member of the Order of Australia). Il-Kavallier tal-Irkotta. Joe Zammit Cordina (Josephine's brother in-law) was also a well-known actor and TV personality. He took part in a number of International Films in minor character roles. The Airport scene in \"Midnight Express\" is well remembered. He was also Mayor of Hamrun.\n\nAnother modern poet, Victor Fenech (b. 1936), involved for many years as a drama critic, also hails from Hamrun. From the romantic school of literature one should mention Rev. Frans Camilleri, also born in this town. Hamrun also gave birth to film director Mario Philip Azzopardi (born in 1950), who is not to be confused with Mario Azzopardi the poet and drama animator (also born in Hamrun in 1944). Mario Philip settled in Canada and has many commercial film titles and TV serials to his credit. The other Mario Azzopardi is a well-known poet and animator, accredited with introducing new forms of literature to the island.\n\nJoseph Buttigieg, distinguished literary scholar at the University of Notre Dame and father of South Bend, Indiana mayor and United States presidential hopeful Pete Buttigieg, was born in Hamrun.\n\nHamrun is also the home town of playwright Oreste Calleja (b. 1946), an acclaimed author who wrote important new-genre plays in the native language.\n\nHamrun has also been the home for a number of years of Bjorn Formosa M.Q.R, the ALS Malta founder, who in 2017 was also honoured with .\n\nDue to the prominence of the St. Cajetan Parish Church, many residents carry the name of the patron saint, generally in Maltese or in Italian.\n\nHamrun is increasingly becoming a cultural melting pot, especially in culinary terms. It organises an annual chocolate festival where chocolatiers from all Malta demonstrate their artistry.\n\nCuisines available in Hamrun, apart from the contemporary local one, such as an art-deco café, include Turkish, Afghan, West African, Syrian and Italian cuisine.\n\n\"Our Lady of Atoċja Chapel\" is the oldest chapel in Hamrun.\n\nIt was built in the early 17th century by a merchant trader who brought the painting of the Madonna from Atocha in Spain. The people from Hamrun refer to it as . During the French blockade of 1798–1800, Maltese insurgents built a battery near the chapel.\n\n\"Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal\" Church is the Motherhouse of the Society of Christian Doctrine founded by Saint George Preca. In fact, he was buried in the crypt of the Church. On a Wednesday, in Passiontide, a Procession of Christ the Redeemer walks through \"Strada Rjali\" (Hamrun Main Road). The Procession starts adjacent to Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal Church and ends when the Statue of Jesus Christ is inside Saint Cajetan Sanctuary. The procession is accompanied by band funeral marches and the 1st Hamrun Scout Group.\n\nThe \"Chapel of Porto Salvo\" was built in 1736 and it was conceived as a village chapel. It is built in the Baroque Style. Today the chapel is used mostly for the adoration of the Holy Eucharist. The local refer to the chapel as Ta' Santu Nuzzo.\n\n\"Immaculate Conception Parish\" Church was built in the 1960s to cater for the large population of Hamrun. In architectural terms the church has a very plain and neat design. In 1973 it became the first parish to receive the Neocatechumenal Way, from where it spread to another 26 parishes in the Maltese Islands. The Neocatechumenal Way is also present in St. Cajetan Parish. Together these two parishes have 13 'communities' with around 450 members.\n\n\"St. Francis of Assisi\" Church was built in the 1950s by the Franciscan Community to cater for the local community.\n\n\"St. Cajetan\" Parish Church was built in the latter half of the 19th century. Originally it was intended to name the church for St. Joseph however Bishop Gaetano Pace Forno wanted to name the church after his patron saint. The church is built in a Neo-Gothic style. Its interior was painted by Emvin Cremona. The statue of Saint Cajetan was done by Carlo Darmanin.\n\nThe Patron Saints of Hamrun are Saint Cajetan, the Immaculate Conception and Saint Joseph. Saint Cajetan's feast is celebrated on the first Sunday after 7 August and the Immaculate Conception feast is celebrated in the first Sunday of July. St Cajetan's feast generates a lot of commerce in the Hamrun district. The Parish church was designed by George Schinas. Construction of the church was finished in 1875. The titular painting was done by Pietro Gagliardi in Rome. The statue of St Cajetan is the work of eminent Maltese sculptor Charles Darmanin and was completed in 1885.\n\nThere are three band clubs in Hamrun; St Joseph's band club, St Cajetan's band club and the Immaculate Conception band club, the only band in the Immaculate Conception Parish. St Cajetan's, or as it is also known \"tat-Tamal\" and St Joseph's, or as it is also known \"Tal-Miskina\", hold marathon marches \"Marċ tal-brijju\" on the day of the feast starting early in the morning and ending late in the afternoon. There is great rivalry between the two band clubs, which makes for one of the most exciting feasts in Malta. Both band club are over a century old; St Joseph's was the first band club, set up shortly after the formation of the parish in 1889, whereas St Cajetan's was formed in 1907. The two band clubs are associated with two different colours; red for St Cajetan's Band Club and blue for St Joseph's Band Club. Supporters of the band clubs surround their respective marching band decked out in clothes and head bands and carrying flags of the same colour as that of their club. Hand-held fire works, especially noisy ones, are set off along the parade route and supporters shower the bands and their supporters with streamers and confetti from balconies and roofs. At times, the confetti look like a heavy snow storm. Little children run around playing with the mounds of paper that are left behind the marching bands.\n\nIn the evening, local band clubs play on a band stand adjacent to the parish church. Locals and visitors walk back and forth along the main street under colourful lights and banners. The streets are lined with statues of saints and angels. The procession leaves the church early in the evening and winds its way around the city. The fiesta ends with a spectacular run up the stairs of the Parish Church. Volunteers carrying the statue of the Patron Saint take a \"ġirja\" (run) up the stairs under the watchful eyes of parishioners, visitors and tourists. This traditional ending of the boisterous local feast dates back to 1898. The run is usually accompanied by an equally spectacular and noisy fire works display and loud cheers and clapping from the crowds. For a brief period, there was the possibility of this tradition being abolished, after the statue almost fell onto the crowd. It was however confirmed by the Diocese of Malta curia, on 1 June 2014, that the tradition should remain.\n\nOn 7 January 2018, the town celebrated a 500-year St. Cajetan anniversary.\n\nBesides the feast of St Cajetan, Hamrun celebrates the feast of the Immaculate Conception both on the first Sunday of July and on 8 December with great fervour and delight. The titular statue of the Immaculate Conception is held with great esteem due to the admiration it drew from the great pontiff Leo XIII who on seeing its magnificence bestowed on it the honour of serving as a tangible means for grace through the distribution of an indulgence to whoever expresses devotion towards it.\n\nThe feast of the Immaculate Conception is quite different from that of St Cajetan. Rather than focusing on the external more energetic and lively side of the feast, it is a feast which is much more muted and the parish's only band club guarantees a total absence of rivalry.\n\n\n\nSince 1908 when the Scout Movement was introduced in Malta, it has been said that the 1st Hamrun Scout Group was one of the pioneers of scouting in this country. However, it was only in 1913 that the Hamrun Group was recognized officially thanks to the diligence and dedication of the founder of the Group, Mr. Edgar Delia and Mr. A.E. Vicari, the first Scoutmaster.\n\nThe group's motto is \"Forward Hamrun\".\n\nOne can find documents that when Mr. Delia, together with other Maltese scouts participated for the first Scout Rally in Windsor Great Park in 1911, where he was given a bugle from Camp Commandant Lt. Col. Minden Cole. This bugle was the inspiration for the formation of the bugle and fife band within this Group.\n\nDuring World War I, the Hamrun Group served the country by helping in doing air-raid demonstrations and doing coast-guard watching around the island. After the War, the Group grew so much that towards the end of the 1950s it was thought that bigger headquarters would be needed. So, the Group Scout Leader of those days, Mr Joe Borg, together with the other leaders of the Group and with the help of Mr. Ernest Micallef, started to look for an alternative place.\n\nIt was only in 1968 that the Hamrun Group officially inaugurated the old train station as the new headquarters. In the same year, the Group was honoured by the Coat of Arms of Duke of Argyll. From that day onwards, with the permission and approval of The Scout Association of Malta, the Group was known as the \"1st Hamrun Scout Group Duke of Argyll's Own\".\n\nThis was a big step forward for the Hamrun Group, especially for its band, that now was honoured to wear the Clan Campbell tartan.\n\nHamrun is home to the Ħamrun Spartans football club . Hamrun houses Victor Tesesco Stadium, a stadium used for premier league fixtures.\n\nTwo other important teams include the Hamrun Liberty who play basketball, and Hamrun Kavallieri playing rugby.\n\nSeveral historic transport services used to pass through Hamrun, including the Malta Railway, known in Maltese as . The former train station is now used as the headquarters for the Hamrun Scout group which is one of the oldest scout groups in the world. Another transport service which used to pass through the town was that of the Tram. St. Joseph High Road () is the main street of Hamrun and one of the most important commercial areas of Malta.\n\nHamrun has the largest concentration of schools in Malta. The oldest schools of Hamrun are the Government Primary Schools. These schools cater for students from the age of 3 to 11 years. The older primary school dates back to the mid-18th century. The doorways of the school are adorned by busts of Queen Victoria and Prince Albert. The other primary school was built in the early 1920s.\n\nMaria Regina Girls' Junior Lyceum is a large girl's Junior Lyceum built in the late 1950s.\n\nDun Guzepp Zammit Brighella Boys' Junior Lyceum traces its origins in the 1590s. The coat of arms of the school still bears part of the coat of arms of the Bishop Garagallo who was Bishop of Malta. Originally the lyceum was found in Valletta. The current building was built in the early 1950s.\n\nMaria Assunta Girls' Secondary School is one of the largest schools in Malta. This school was built in the 1960s with the help of UNESCO.\n\nAdelaide Cini Girls' School was another girls school in Hamrun. It was closed down just a few years ago. Today the same building houses the temporary location for students who eventually will go to M.A. Vassalli Boys' Junior Lyceum.\n\nMaria Teresa Nuzzo Girls' School was a school which used to cater for the low ability female students aged between 11 and 16 years. This school was located in the same premises of the Primary School built in the 1920s. The student population was around 100. This school was closed down in 2005.\n\nOur Lady Immaculate Girls' School is a church school which cater for from the age of 4 to 16. This school is managed by Franciscan Sisters. In this school there are almost 700 children.\n\nSt. Joseph's Girls School is a church school which caters for students from the age of 4 to 16.\n\n\nHamrun is twinned with:\n"}
{"id": "1857854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857854", "title": "Kirkop", "text": "Kirkop\n\nKirkop () is a village in the Southern Region of Malta. It is found near the Malta International Airport, and has been inhabited since pre-history. The parish church is dedicated to Saint Leonard. The football team of the village is the Kirkop United Football Club.\n\nThe original name of the village was Casal Prokopju, and is retrieved from the registers of the Maltese militia that existed prior to the rule of the Order of St. John. Through generations, the local population corrupted the original name and was changed to \"Kirkop\".\n\nThe name of the village is claimed to be from a family name, or nickname, but this has been refuted by scholars. It is believed that the name has Sicilian origins.\n\nPunic remains of catacombs are found around the village of Kirkop with some of them remain unexplored, and their exploration has been shelved.\n\nIn 1969 Anthropologist Jeremy Boissevain published a research on the social fabric of the village in his book \"Hal Farrug: a village in Malta\". Boissevain claims that the people of Ħal Kirkop have lived in the area for centuries because of his assumed comparable bloodline with ancient Phoenician. The Phoenicians occupied the Maltese islands around 700 B.C.. \n\nKirkop was part of a larger community, as part of the parish of Bir Miftuħ, in the Middle Ages until the Early Modern period. However on 29 May 1592, it was declared a parish on its own right.\n\nThe village had a population of 2,260 people in March 2011. By March 2014 this decreased slightly to 2,191 people.\n\nIn Kirkop, one finds the Menhir monolith, which has become the symbol of the village, and a number of Paleo-Christian Catacombs.\n\nOther notorious buildings and structures are listed monuments which include; the Church of the Annunciation, the Parish Church of St. Leonard, the Chapel St. Nicholas at the cemetery, a cross column (Is-Salib tad-Dejma), and a number of niches scattered around the village. There are two WWII shelters below street level. \n\nThere are two band clubs, the St. Leonard Band Club and the St. Joseph Band Club, which are used as recreation. \n\nKirkop is home to an STMicroelectronics plant, whose production accounts for 60% of national exports.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857859", "title": "Thales Spectra", "text": "Thales Spectra\n\nThe full SPECTRA integrated electronic warfare suite provides long-range detection, identification and accurate localisation of infrared homing, radio frequency and laser threats. The system incorporates radar warning receiver, laser warning and Missile Approach Warning for threat detection plus a phased array radar jammer and a decoy dispenser for threat countering. It also includes a dedicated management unit for data fusion and reaction decision.\n\nThe SPECTRA system consists of two infrared missile warning sensors (Détecteur de Départ Missile Nouvelle Génération). A new generation missile warning system (DDM NG) is currently being developed by MBDA. The DDM NG delivered its first in flight images in March 2010 and will be available on the Rafale from 2012. DDM NG incorporates a new infrared array detector which enhances performance with regard to the range at which a missile firing will be detected (with two sensors, each equipped with a fish-eye lens, DDM NG provides a spherical field of view around the aircraft). The DDM-NG also offers improved rejection of false alarms and gives an angular localisation capability which will be compatible with the future use of Directional Infrared Counter Measures (DIRCM).\n\nThales Group and Dassault Aviation have mentioned stealthy jamming modes for the SPECTRA system, to reduce the aircraft's apparent radar signature. It is not known exactly how these work or even if the capability is fully operational, but it may employ active cancellation technology, such as has been tested by Thales and MBDA. Active cancellation is supposed to work by sampling and analysing incoming radar and feeding it back to the hostile emitter out of phase thus cancelling out the returning radar echo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857860", "title": "Nikahang Kowsar", "text": "Nikahang Kowsar\n\nNikahang Kowsar (, born 1969), also known as Nik Kowsar is an Iranian-Canadian cartoonist, journalist, and blogger, currently living in Washington, D.C., US. Kowsar was also a reformist candidate for the second term of city council of Tehran in 2003, an election won by the conservative candidates of Abadgaran.\n\nHe studied Geology in the University of Tehran, and joined Gol-Agha, an Iranian political satire magazine as a cartoonist in 1991. He worked for Hamshahri from 1992 to 1998, and was a member of Newspapers such as \"Zan\", \"Aftab-e Emrooz\", \"Sobh-e Emrooz\", \"Akhbar-e Eghtesadi\", \"Azad\", \"Bahar\", \"Bonyan\", \"Doran-e Emrooz\", \"Nosazi\", \"Hayate No\", \"Abrar-e Eghteadi\", \"Hambastegi\", \"Farhang-e Ashti\". Most of these papers were banned by Saeed Mortazavi. He was arrested in Feb. 2000 for drawing a cartoon and spent 6 days at the Evin Prison in Tehran.\n\nAyatollah Mesbah Yazdi's nickname comes from a cartoon portraying \"Professor Crocodile\", a \"reptilian academic who was shown strangling a journalist with his tail\". The cartoon was drawn by Nikahang Kowsar and satirized freedom of expression in Iran, and a speech given by Mesbah Yazdi in the previous day. Mesbah Yazdi was known as Professor Mesbah (Persian: استاد مصباح) among his supporters. \"\"Mesbah\"\" rhymes with the Persian word for crocodile, \"\"Temsah\"\" (Persian: تمساح), and the cartoon labeled the crocodile as \"Professor \"Temsah\"\", who repeats the words used by Mesbah Yazdi in the previous day. Nikahang Kowsar was arrested and spent seven days in prison for the depiction. In 2001, he sent an apology letter to Mesbah, and the cleric had said that he had accepted it, but later in 2003 Kowsar received a death threat, from and Islamist assassin group.\n\nKowsar is a Canadian Citizen.\n\nIn 2005, CBC's Farid Haerinejad made a documentary about Nikahang Kowsar entitled \"The Bloggers' War\". The film was the winner of Bronze Plaque from Christopher Columbus International Film and Video Festival Ohio.\n\nKowsar has been sentenced to prison for his cartoons in absentia. After moving to Canada, he worked in a Dry-Cleaner's for a while before joining MarketWire in 2005 and IFEX in 2008. He also has been free-lancing and his cartoons have been recently published by \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", \"The Globe and Mail\", \"Maclean's\", and \"The Guardian\". Kowsar is a member of the New York Times Syndicate. He has appeared on CNN, BBC, CBC, CTV, VOA and many political TV shows as a guest analyst and observer. Kowsar now works in Washington DC and is the editor-in-chief of Khodnevis.org, the first Persian citizen journalism platform.\n\nKowsar is a member of the board of directors of Cartoonists Rights Network International.\n\nKowsar is also a member of the Association of Canadian Editorial Cartoonists (ACEC) and Journalists in Exile (JEX). CBC made a documentary based on his life and his involvement in the Blogger movement.\n\nKowsar won the 2001 international \"Courage for Editorial Cartooning\" award from Cartoonists Rights Network International. He also received the second prize of Canada's National Press Club editorial cartoon contest in 2001. He has won 4 National Press Awards from Iran's \"Press Festival\" in 1996, 1999, 2000 and 2002. In 1995, he was a recipient of an Honorary Diploma from the International Caricature contests in Tolentino, Italy.\n\nHis cartoons are mainly published by Rooz online, a news website which is funded by a Dutch foundation. He now runs Khodnevis, a citizen journalism platform. He has been strongly criticized by supporters of the Iranian government, for his cartoons depicting Iran's involvement in Iraq, and possible war with the United States, as well as supporters of Iranian Reformists for criticizing former president Khatami and candidates like Mousavi and Karoubi. Kowsar has criticized the reformist leaders for not taking responsibility for their acts in the 1980s, during the Iran-Iraq war and mass-executions of political activists in Iran. The cartoons have been published by Rooz and khodnevis. He was forced to quit professional cartooning after being diagnosed with Fibromyalgia.\n\nKowsar who had written numerous Op-Eds on water management in Iran and criticized Khatami administration's water governance policies and warned the president in 2001 of a nationwide water crisis, started focusing on water issues in 2014, and launched the Abangan TV Show in 2015 to raise awareness of Iranians of a possible dire future. \n\nHe was quoted by Thomas Friedman on Iran's water situation: “When people lose their lands they lose everything, and that means they aren’t scared of anything,” explained Nikahang Kowsar, an Iranian exile geologist, and son of a watershed scientist, who grew up in southern Iran. “The water crisis is real and killing the country today. We are getting less precipitation, and the population is rising. There’s bad agricultural policies and bad water governance. It is like a time bomb.” Officials predict that millions of Iranians could be forced to flee their country before the end of the century.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857861", "title": "Marsa, Malta", "text": "Marsa, Malta\n\nMarsa () is a town in the South Eastern Region of Malta, with a population of 4,401 people as of March 2014. The name Marsa means \"the harbour\".\n\nMarsa is located on the Marsa Creek, a body of water formed by the flow of water from wadis in high ground near the sea. The creek includes the Grand Harbour which the town is based on. A port was first established at Marsa by the Phoenicians. Remains of Roman constructions have been found close to the town.\n\nAt the arrival of the Order of St John in Malta, a particular cultivated garden was among the few places observed. A vital spring for the Grand Harbour was located on site. It is thought a foundry of the Order may have been located at Marsa. During the Great Siege of Malta of 1565, Marsa was used as a camp by troops of the Ottoman Empire. Following their defeat, Marsa became a barony containing a number of vineyards. A noteworthy bridge was located in Marsa which facilitated the road from Birgu to the area of Valletta and vice versa.\nIn the 17th century a historical museum, the Museo di San Giacomo, was located at Marsa. This was created when Giovanni Francesco Abela converted his house into a museum and was the first of its type on Malta. Many of its artefacts are now held at the National Museum of Archaeology in Malta's capital city Valletta.\n\nDuring the French blockade of 1798-1800, Maltese insurgents built Marsa Battery and Jesuit Hill Battery in Marsa to encircle the French in the Grand Harbour. Both batteries were demolished after the end of the blockade.\n\nA new port was constructed in the 1860s under the rule of the British Empire. It was intended that a town would be built at the site under the name Albert Town, named after Prince Albert. By 1890 the town had a population of over 600 people, but it was later abandoned. A new town at the site emerged in the 20th century, taking the name Marsa after the creek.\n\nIn July 2009 a plan to regenerate the harbour area was announced. This is intended to turn the site into a recreational area and is planned include the construction of a marina with space for 170 boats.\n\nMarsa is home to the Malta Shipyards. In November 2014, the Malta Shipbuilding in Marsa was also the venue for both the 12th annual Junior Eurovision Song Contest and the Malta Eurovision Song Contest 2015.\n\nSince 1953, the oil-fueled Marsa Power Station provided most of the electricity to the Maltese Islands, until it began to be demolished in 2014. A new Marsa north distribution centre will be built instead of the former power station, in order to reinforce the island's power grid.\n\nMarsa Race Track, a one-kilometre long horse racing track, was constructed in 1868 and remains in use.\n\nMalta's postal administration MaltaPost has its head office in Qormi Road, Marsa. The General Post Office, Central Mail Room and Philatelic Bureau have been located in this complex since 1997.\n\n\nMarsa is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857863", "title": "Naxxar", "text": "Naxxar\n\nNaxxar () is a town in the Northern Region of Malta, with a population of about 13,443 people as of March 2014. The Naxxar Church is dedicated to Our Lady of Victories. The annual village feast is celebrated on 8 September. Naxxar was formerly known for hosting the Maltese International Trade Fair at Maltese International Trade Fair Grounds.\n\nThe Naxxar Locality is spread over an area of and has a population of over eleven thousand persons. The whole locality comprises the Naxxar centre, Sgħajtar area, Santa Marija tax-Xagħra, San Pawl tat-Tarġa, Birguma, Magħtab, Salina, Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq and part of Madliena.\n\nIt is not clear when Naxxar started to become a village, but human habitation in the area dates to the prehistoric era. This is evidenced by megalithic remains at Tal-Qadi and at Qaliet Marku. The cart ruts which start at Salina up to it-Targa and near Ghadira tal-Wej were probably first cut in the same period.\n\nAccording to legend and the Bible, the people of Naxxar were amongst the first to help the shipwrecked, including Saint Paul, when the ship he was on went aground on the rocks. For this reason many connect the name Naxxar with Nassar (Nasra) which means 'conversion to Christianity'. The name might alternatively be derived from the Maltese verb \"Naxar\", which means to hang up clothes. Others insist that the name comes from \"Nsara\" or \"Nazaroei\" which means 'those who believe in the teachings of Christ who came from Nazareth and thus \"Nozri\"'. Others say that the word Naxxar means 'one who saws, separates or cuts' – it might be worth mentioning that in Naxxar there are a lot of stonemasons. Magri, in his book says that the word naxar comes from \"nazar\" which in Hebrew means \"chosen for him\" or else \"one who keeps to himself\". This is because in the vicinity the Arabs had formed a village that they called Hal Muselmiet, which means 'the village of the Muslims'. For this reason the Christians started another village – that of the Christians and so the name of Naxxar.\n\nAlthough it has never been clearly explained where the name Naxxar originated, it is a clear fact that there is a close tie with the tradition that the people of Naxxar were the first converts to Christianity. In fact the Parish of Naxxar was the first in the Maltese outskirts, after that of the Cathedral (Mdina) and that of Vittoriosa. This is borne out and further evidenced by the village motto – \"Prior Credidi\" – meaning the First To Believe.\n\n\nThe Naxxar parish church was one of the ten parishes found to be existing by Bishop De Mello in 1436 and the villages of Mosta and Għargħur were subject to it. De Mello listed it as one of the ten parishes of Malta and it was the first parish dedicated to Our Lady after that of the old cathedral in Mdina. In 1575, the parish of Naxxar had under its control a total of 36 churches – 14 in Naxxar, 5 in Għargħur, 12 in Mosta and 5 in the neighbourhood of these villages. The present church was built between 1616 and 1630 when there were 1200 inhabitants in Naxxar and it was felt that a larger church was needed. The design was made by Tumas Dingli, one of the best architects of the time. The parish priest was Father Gakbu Pace. The choir and the area around it was redesigned in 1691 to the design of Lorenzo Gafà, the same architect who had designed the Mdina cathedral. The parish church was solemnly consecrated by Bishop Alpheran de Bussan on 11 December 1732.\n\nThe church has two choirs, the renowned Jubilate Deo choir and its sister children's choir Pueri Cantores Jubilate Deo. The choirs are currently being handled by Christopher Muscat and Daniela Callus respectively. The church also has two transepts and a nave and is long. The width of the transept is and the nave . The large bell was made by the founder Toni Tanti in 1840 and cost £225. The façade of the church has two clocks, one showing the actual time whilst the other is a painting and shows the time as a quarter to eleven (11.45).\n\nThe main painting shows the Birth of Our Lady which is attributed to the school of Mattia Preti (1613-1699) whilst at the side there are two paintings by Stefano Erardi (1650-1733) which show the Flight to Egypt and the Adoration of the Magi. Other paintings which show the Madonna and Child, St Cajetan, St Aloysius Gonzaga, Our Saviour and Our Lady of Sorrows are the work of the Maltese painter Frangisku Zahra (1680-1765). In the sacristy hangs the antique painting showing Our Lady of the Rosary which was painted on wood by Gio Maria Abela in 1595.\n\nThe main door, which is made of bronze, is dated 1913 and is the work of Pio Cellini. The door is made up of four main panels depicting the coat of arms of Our Lady, Patroness of Naxxar; the village coat of arms; the coat of arms of Pope Pius X and the coat of arms of the family Zammit who were the benefactors of this door. In 1952 this door was dismantled, and renovated and cleaned by the blacksmith Mastru Lucens Agius. The expenses involved were once more paid for by the same family Zammit.\n\nThe statue of the Vitorja, which feast is celebrated on 8 September, was imported from Rome whilst the statues of the Good Friday Procession are the work of a Maltese craftsman. Naxxar was one of the first villages which had the statues of the Passion of Our Lord and in fact it is believed that the procession started being held just after 1750. On 9 November 1787, the body of the martyr St Vittorio was brought from the cemetery of St Calepodio of Rome and is found in the altar in the choir. Some of the sculptures and façades were made by Angelo Quatromanni\n\nIn the larger Naxxar area, there are various country chapels. These include the chapel of the Immaculate Conception which was built in the 18th Century; St Lucy's chapel; the chapel of the Shipwreck of St. Paul situated at San Pawl tat-Tarġa; Church of the Nativity of St. John the Baptist; the chapel of St James the Apostle; Santa Maria tax-Xagħra; the Assumption of the Virgin in Magħtab which was built in the 18th Century; the Annunciation of the Virgin at Salina which was built in the 16th Century; the church of St. Michael the Archangel in Salina; that of St John the Evangelist and that of St Mary of the Angels in Baħar ic-Ċagħaq.\n\nThe actual area where the village of Naxxar is built offers a natural shelter to its inhabitants. In fact, in early times the village was used to reconnoitre the movements of the enemy. Because this height has a plain which goes right down to the sea, we find that three forms of defence were built through the ages – those along the sea such as towers, entrenchments, batteries, redoubts and beachposts - as a physical resistance to those attempting to land from the sea; inland defences like pillboxes – to hinder the advance of the enemy if they were successful in landing; and the fortifications on high ground.\n\nSome fortifications around Naxxar include:\n\nPalazzo Parisio in Naxxar was built by grandmaster Manoel de Vilhena in the 18th century. The palace was used by the Jesuit Community as a University. After buying the property in 1898, Marquis Scicluna altered it into its present state and purchased more land at the back, converting it into a large garden, between 1898 and 1906.\n\nPalazzo Nasciaro is an 18th-century palace built during the Order of St. John that saw different adaptive reuse throughout the years. It is a prime example of late baroque architecture in the town of Naxxar. Through its history it was the residence of architect Francesco Sammut and later of his son Giovanni Sammut, it was the Lieutenant's house in the north of Malta, later served as the first public school in Naxxar, it was the police headquarters and until recent a police station, it served as a maternity underground hospital during WWII and provided shelter for the community from the war bombardments. Today it is a private residence.\n\nHompesch Hunting Lodge was a hunting lodge built by Grandmaster Hompesch close to Gauci Tower and Captain's Tower. Today it is in a dilapidated state.\n\nVilla Castro, formerly Palazzo Castro, is a knights period country residence which has been renovated and developed for modern housing in the 21st century. The outer gardens were demolished and developed in other surrounding buildings along the years.\n\n\nNaxxar is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857864", "title": "Total Anarchoi", "text": "Total Anarchoi\n\nTotal Anarchoi is an anarcho-punk album, by the band Oi Polloi. It was released in 1992 both on CD and LP.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857865", "title": "West New Britain Province", "text": "West New Britain Province\n\nWest New Britain is a province of Papua New Guinea on the islands of New Britain. The provincial capital is Kimbe. The area of the province is 20,387 km² with a population of 264,264 as of the 2011 census. The province's only land border is with East New Britain. There are seven major tribes, the , Bakovi, Kove, Unea, Maleu, arowe , speaking about 25 languages.\n\nPeople from West New Britain are referred to as \"Kombes\" in Papua New Guinea, in metonymic reference to the significant Kove (or Kombe) people. The Kove people were reported on by the anthropologist Ann Chowning in \"National Geographic\" magazine during the 1960s. Within Papua New Guinea they are noted for their practice of superincision of the penis — circumcision is generally though inaccurately referred to among Papua New Guineans as \"the Kombe cut\" — but was formerly practiced in other northern coastal regions of New Guinea island and the New Guinea Islands.\n\nThe predominant religious affiliation is Roman Catholic, though there is a sizeable Anglican presence at the extreme western tip of the province and Bishop James Ayong, the retired Anglican Primate of Papua New Guinea, is originally from West New Britain.\n\nWest New Britain produces palm oil for export with large oil palm plantations on the north coast of the province especially in the Kimbe region. There are logging activities in the interior and on the south coast. The Walindi dive resort near Kimbe is a tourist destination for visitors to Papua New Guinea.\n\nThere are two districts in the province. Each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1978 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n"}
{"id": "1857869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857869", "title": "Fuaim Catha", "text": "Fuaim Catha\n\nFuaim Catha is an anarcho-punk album, by the band Oi Polloi. It was released in 1999 on Skuld Records. Fuaim Catha means 'Sound of Battle' in the Scottish Gaelic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857873", "title": "Pembroke, Malta", "text": "Pembroke, Malta\n\nPembroke is a town in the Northern Region of Malta, and it is considered to be the country's newest town. To the east is Paceville, the nightlife district of Malta. The coastal town and tourist hub of St. Julian's lies to the southeast, and the residential area of Swieqi lies to the south. The hilltop village of Madliena is to its west, and Baħar iċ-Ċagħaq lies to the northwest.\n\nPembroke covers an area of . The area hugs a coastal zone with a rocky beach. The highest point lies at 64 meters (210 feet) above sea level (at Suffolk Road, exit to St. Andrews Rd). The whole area was formerly a British military base from the 1850s to 1979.\n\nPembroke is named after Robert Henry Herbert, the 12th Earl of Pembroke, and was authorised by Sidney Herbert, younger half-brother of Robert and Secretary at War in 1859.\n\nThe town of Pembroke was formerly part of St. Julian's. Pembroke officially became a town by virtue of the Local Councils Act (1993). This Act recognised Pembroke as one of 67 localities in Malta, each having its own Local Council.\n\nThe town's population stood at 3,645 in March 2014. By comparison, the town's population stood at 2,630 thirteen years earlier in 2001 which included 2,555 Maltese nationals. As at 2013, Pembroke ranked as the 38th most populated town from the 68 official localities in Malta. The population profile is quite young compared to the national average. As a matter of fact, only 91 persons were over 70 years from a population of 3,488 in 2011. This represents 2% of the town's population compared to the national average of 10% for this age category. The average age of the Pembroke population is 33.5 years compared to the national average of 40.5 years.\n\nThe town's population has grown as follows;(NSO Demographic reviews)\n\nThe five most common surnames in Pembroke are Vella, Borg, Zammit, Camilleri and Galea. These five surnames alone account for 15% of the town's population.\n\nThe first known buildings in the area of the town date back to the time of the Order of Saint John. The Knights built two Watch Towers on the extreme ends of the current Pembroke coast. The first of these is Saint George's Tower, which was built in 1638 as part of a series of coastal watch towers financed by Grand Master Giovanni Paolo Lascaris. The second tower, Madliena Tower, forms part of a network of 13 coastal watch towers, collectively known as the De Redin towers, which were built between 1658 and 1659 during the reign of Grand Master Martin de Redin to protect the then uninhabited northern coast of Malta. These 13 towers adorn the official flag and emblem of Pembroke, reflecting the town's military heritage.\n\nHowever, it was the British who were instrumental in the development and fortification of Pembroke by building a military base complete with a hospital, cemetery, school, parade grounds, training grounds and shooting ranges. At this time, Pembroke formed part of Għargħur. Initially, troops were billeted in tents and the area was known as the Pembroke Cantonment. The first barracks were constructed between 1859 and 1862 overlooking St. George's Bay and were named after England's patron saint, St. George. Later, other barracks were built and were named after the patron saints of Ireland and Scotland, St. Patrick and St. Andrew. Fort Pembroke was built between 1875 and 1878 to safeguard the seaward approach towards the Grand Harbour situated approximately 6 km to the East, as well as to defend the right flank of the Victoria Lines. Its main armament comprised three 11-inch R.M.L. guns and one 64pr R.M.L. gun on a Moncrieff Mounting. The fort is surrounded by a ditch and glacis and contains underground magazines and casemated quarters for the garrison. The site now houses the Verdala International School. Later, between 1897 and 1899, Pembroke Battery was built nearby to serve the same purposes but housing newer guns with a longer range, protected by reinforced concrete emplacements. Pembroke Battery was armed with two 9.2-inch breech-loading MK X guns. Only one gun emplacement survives today, located between Burma Road and Dun Luigi Rigord Street.\n\nThe military heritage of Pembroke Army Garrison is still evident as several buildings from the British era survive to this day preserved as heritage structures. The Pembroke Military Cemetery marks the repose of 593 casualties, including 315 from the Second World War. The cemetery also houses the Pembroke Memorial which commemorates 52 servicemen of the Second World War whose graves are in other parts of Malta not falling under the care of the Commonwealth War Graves. Their names appear on marble plaques let into the plinth of the Cross of Sacrifice. The cemetery is open Monday to Friday.\n\nIn 1915, during World War I, when Malta was an important hospital base for the British and Commonwealth troops in the Mediterranean area, the Army built what was then called St. Andrew's Church Room. In 1932, plans for an extension to the Church Room were drawn up and funds were raised from civilians and supplemented by generous contributions from soldiers of both battalions quartered in Pembroke barracks. The church was known as the Christ Church Garrison Church. The service of dedication took place on Sunday 12 November 1933. The extension permitted over two hundred people to be seated comfortably. The building today houses the Athleta Sports Club at Burma Road.\n\nIn 1915, the Australian Branch of the British Red Cross Society collected funds for the building of Australia Hall, a recreation centre and theatre, to stand as a monument to the wounded ANZAC troops that were nursed in Malta. Unfortunately, the ceiling of trusses and sheeting was gutted by fire in December 1998 but its sturdy four walls still remain standing and are pending a restoration project.\n\nDuring the Second World War and the ensuing blitz on Malta, Pembroke did not escape unscathed and has borne the scars from its share of the bombardment. From June 1940 St George's Barracks was used to house the families of naval staff in the hope that it was far enough away from the RN Dockyards to avoid bombing. In the later stages of the war, German prisoners of war were held in Pembroke's POW camp. By 1945 they reached 2500 prisoners and several of them were of Roman Catholic denomination. They built a small chapel which served the religious needs of the catholic troops and prisoners. The Chapel was formally blessed by the Archbishop of Malta Mikiel Gonzi in May 1946. During 1947, several prisoners were repatriated to Germany and on 9 February 1948, the last contingent of 787 Germans were embarked from Malta heading home to Germany. On 17 February 1948, No.1 (Malta) Prisoner of War Camp was officially disbanded.\n\nIn April 1960, the Italian Navy Rescue and Salvage ship \"Proteo\" came to Malta and collected the remains of 121 German and 79 Italian dead of the Second World War who had been buried in the Pembroke Military cemetery. The ship sailed for Sardinia where the coffins were re-interred in the St. Michele Communal Cemetery, situated just outside the main town of Cagliari.\n\nAfter the war, Pembroke hosted various regiments that formed the backbone of the Malta garrison and other regiments were posted here for training camps. Some of the Barracks also hosted the families of those soldiers on longer postings. The British military base at Pembroke was run down in 1977 and the last British soldiers left Pembroke in 1979. On 16 March 1977, Earl Mountbatten of Burma, Admiral of the Fleet, took the salute as 41 Commando Royal Marines trooped the Regimental Colour at the parade ground by St Andrew's Barracks. This ceremony marked the beginning of the withdrawal of British Forces from Malta. Since then, all the land which had been acquired by the British during their period in Malta has been relinquished to the Maltese Government.\n\nPembroke remained neglected between 1979 and 1984. By the mid-1980s some of the former barracks were converted into housing projects. There was also a short-lived, large holiday complex which only lasted a few years (Medisle Village complex, including the Raffles discothèque and the Victoria Pub). On 4 July 1983, the Maltese Parliament approved a motion to commence issuing plots of land for sale/lease for the purpose of building residential houses. The first residents settled in 1986. In 1993, Pembroke was separated from St. Julians and formally became a new town. Pembroke has since developed into a pleasant residential town and a rather green town by Maltese standards. It is popular with visiting language students particularly during the summer months.\n\nThe Archbishop of Malta declared Pembroke as a parish on 8 December 2004. Formerly, Pembroke fell within the parish of St. Julians and later as an autonomous zone under Ibrag. The parish is dedicated to the Resurrection of Christ. Unlike most towns and villages in Malta, Pembroke does not hold a village festa. The new church is built on the same site of the former small chapel erected in 1945 by German prisoners of war.\n\nThe town is well known for hosting a high concentration of schools and educational institutions. The main schools are the following; St. Clare Primary and Secondary State Schools; St. Clare College Girls' Junior Lyceum (ex-Sir Adrian Dingli Junior Lyceum); St Patrick's Craft Centre; Verdala International School; Framingham State College; Sprachcaffe Languages Plus; St. Catherine's High School; Institute of Tourism Studies; St. Michael's Foundation; STC Training; San Miguel School and Middlesex University (Malta Campus).\nPembroke is also associated with sports. The Pembroke Athleta Football Club represents the town in the national league. Other clubs established in Pembroke include Pembroke Athleta Sports Club; Luxol Sports Club; Melita F.C.; Pembroke Rackets Tennis Club; Assoċjazzjoni tal-BMX; Judo Federation; Spinach Fitness Club and the Malta Archery Club.\n\nPembroke has the last large expanse of karstland left in Malta, covering over 60 hectares of garigue. Endangered plants are still found in the area, the most important of these is the thorny salad-burnet (). Aleppo pines () dominate the forested areas. The coastal zone is designated a Special Area of Conservation(SAC). The rocky coast, watercourse and karst land surrounding and including the Pembroke rifle ranges are scheduled locally as 'Areas of Ecological Importance' and 'Sites of Scientific Importance', whereas the rifle ranges themselves are protected as historic structures. This garigue zone hugs the coast and is interrupted by the 'Reverse Osmosis' water desalination plant, the largest plant in Malta. The plant was purposely placed on the Pembroke coast due to the cleanliness of the pristine sea water in the area, free from any affluent or any agricultural run-off.\n\nA geological feature unique in the Maltese archipelago is the large natural cavern at the \"Ħarq Ħammiem\" valley which separates Pembroke from St. Julians. The large cavern tops a closed lake having a surface area of 300 square meters and is very deep. An underwater survey commissioned by the Maltese government in 2001 discovered the lake's depths were even deeper than previously assumed. The underwater formation consists of two large chambers interconnected by a corridor. The lower chamber is fully submerged. This unique feature is not well known as access to the cavern is blocked by a private enterprise and this irregular claim does not seem to be challenged by the authorities . The Malta Environment and Planning Authority (MEPA) has declared Ħarq Ħammiem cave and the full extent of the remnant valley system as an Area of Ecological Importance and Site of Scientific Importance as per Government Notice No. 370/08 in the Government Gazette dated 23 April 2008.\n\nPembroke is twinned with:\n\n\n\nDenis Darmanin: Pembroke; From a British Garrison to a Modern Civilian Town. Pembroke Local Council, Wise Owl Publications, 2010, 128pp.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857879", "title": "Helvig of Schauenburg", "text": "Helvig of Schauenburg\n\nHelvig of Schauenburg () (1398–1436), also known as Hedvig of Holstein and also Hedwig of Schauenburg, was a duchess of Schleswig and a countess of Holstein from the family of Schauenburg, and ancestor of the Danish Royal houses of Oldenburg and Schleswig-Holstein-Sonderburg-Glücksburg.\n\nShe was a daughter of Gerhard VI of Holstein-Rendsburg and his wife, Catherine Elisabeth of Brunswick-Lüneburg. Her brother was Adolf VIII/I, Count of Holstein/Duke of Schleswig. Through their father, they were cognatic descendants of King Eric V of Denmark while through their mother, they were cognatic descendants of King Abel of Denmark.\n\nOn 18 April 1417 Helvig was married to Prince Balthasar of Mecklenburg, who died of the plague in 1421. In 1423 she was married to Dietrich, Count of Oldenburg. From her second marriage she had the following children:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857880", "title": "Ochna integerrima", "text": "Ochna integerrima\n\nOchna integerrima, popularly called yellow \"Mai\" flower (, \"hoàng mai\" in southern Vietnam, although in the north, \"Mai Hằng\" usually refers to \"Prunus mume\"), is a plant species in the genus \"Ochna\" () and family Ochnaceae. In the wild, it is a small tree or shrub species (2-7 m tall). The timing of the yellow flowers of this plant make it very popular in southern Vietnam, where (often bonsai-style) plants are purchased during Tết.\nIn Vietnam, the variety of \"O. integerrima\" whose flowers have five petals is called \"mai vàng\" (yellow \"mai\"), whereas \"mai núi\" (mountain \"mai\") flowers have between five and nine petals.\n\nIn Cambodia, it is called \"angkea\" (), \"angkeasel\" (), \"angkea loeung\" or \"kongkea\" .\n\n\"Ochna integerrima\" ( \"Chang nao\") is the provincial flower of Mukdahan province, Thailand.\n\nOchna integerrima are hard to grow and also difficult to take care of. Farmers choose good seeds, soak them in water, and sow them in moist soil (either in pots or in a garden).\n\nOchna integerrima likes moist and light soil, cannot stand waterlogging. Therefore, it is necessary to grow Ochna integerrima in high places and water them regularly.\n\nIf growing in pots, pay attention to fertilizing and change the soil every year. To have a beautiful flower pot, we should often pay attention to cutting branches, bending branches, creating a posture to have unique shaped Ochna integerrima pots.\n\nVietnamese people have a fairy tale about Ochna integerrima. The story is about a kind and brave girl. She fought a monster to protect the villagers. Unfortunately, she died after the battle. Her bravery touched the Gods. So, although she died, every New Year comes, she is revived to visit her family and her village for 9 days. When her parents died, she transformed into a flowering tree. Every time the New Year comes, the flowers bloom brightly like the yellow shirt she usually wears. That is Ochna integerrima.\n\nVietnamese people believe that, on Tet holiday, Ochna integerrima can banish ghosts throughout the year.\n"}
{"id": "1857881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857881", "title": "Ibn Tumart", "text": "Ibn Tumart\n\nAbu Abd Allah Muhammad Ibn Tumart (Berber: \"Amghar ibn Tumert\", , ca. 1080–1130 or 1128), a Moroccan Muslim Berber religious scholar, teacher and political leader, from the Sous region in southern Morocco. He founded and served as the spiritual and first military leader of the Almohad movement, a puritanical reform movement launched among the Masmuda Berbers of the Atlas Mountains. Ibn Tumart launched an open revolt against the ruling Almoravids during the 1120s. After his death his followers, the Almohads, went on to conquer much of North Africa and part of Spain.\n\nMany of the details of Ibn Tumart's life were recorded by hagiographers, whose accounts probably mix legendary elements from the Almohad doctrine of their founding figure and spiritual leader. Ibn Tumart was born sometime between 1078 and 1082 in the small village of Igiliz (exact location uncertain) in the Sous valley of southern Morocco. He was a member of the Hargha, a Berber tribe of the Anti-Atlas range, part of the Masmuda (Berber: \"imesmuden\") tribal confederation. His father belonged to the Hargha and his mother to the Masakkala, both of which are divisions of the Masmuda tribal confederation.\n\nHis name is given alternatively as Muhammad ibn Abdallah or Muhammad ibn Tumart. Al-Baydhaq reported that \"Tumart\" was actually his father Abdallah's nickname (\"Tumart\" or \"Tunart\" comes from the Berber language and means \"good fortune\", \"delight\" or \"happiness\", and makes it an equivalent of the Arabic name \"Saad\". As it was noted by Ahmed Toufiq in his research about Ibn al-Zayyat al-Tadili's famous book \"at-Tashawof\", many early Sufi saints held this name in Morocco). Ibn Khaldun reports that Muhammad ibn Tumart himself was very pious as a child, and that he was nicknamed \"Asafu\" (Berber for \"firebrand\" or \"lover of light\") for his habit of lighting candles at mosques.\n\nIbn Tumart came from a humble family and his father was a lamp-lighter at the mosque. By his own declaration and that of his followers, he claimed to be descendant of Idriss I, a descendant of Hassan, the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad, who took refuge in Morocco in the 8th-century. However, and despite being supported by Ibn Khaldun, this ascendency is today largely disputed. At the time, it was common for Berber leaders and tribes to claim a Sharif lineage in order to gain religious authority.\n\nAt the time, Morocco, al-Andalus and large parts of Maghreb, were ruled by the Almoravids, a Maliki puritanical Saharan Sanhaja Berber movements, who founded the city of Marrakesh and are credited with spreading Islam to much of West Africa. To pursue his education, Ibn Tumart went as a young man (c. 1106) to Qortoba, which was at the time the biggest centre of learning in the Almoravids dominion, where he was a disciple of at-Turtushi. Thereafter, Ibn Tumart went east to deepen his studies where he came under the influence al-Ghazali's ideas (Almohad historians support that he met and studied under al-Ghazali, but modern historians maintain that it is unknown whether this encounter actually happened). He appears in Baghdad soon after, and there he attached himself to the Ash'arite school of theology and the Zahirite school of jurisprudence, but with the creed of Ibn Hazm which differed significantly from early Zahirites in its rejection of Taqlid and reliance on reason.\n\nIt was probably while in Baghdad that Ibn Tumart began to develop a system of his own by combining the teachings of his Ash'arite masters with parts of the doctrines of others, with a touch of Sufi mysticism imbibed from the great teacher al-Ghazali. Hagiographers report that Ibn Tumart was in al-Ghazali's presence when news arrived that the Almoravids had proscribed and publicly burned his recent great work, \"Ihya' Ulum al-Din\", upon which al-Ghazali is said to have turned to Ibn Tumart and charged him, as a native of those lands, with the mission of setting the Almoravids right.\n\nIbn Tumart's main principle was a rigid unitarianism (\"tawhid\") which denied the existence of the attributes of God as incompatible with his unity and therefore a polytheistic idea. Ibn Tumart represented a revolt against what he perceived as anthropomorphism in the Muslim orthodoxy, but he was a rigid predestinarian and a strict observer of the law. He laid the blame for the \"theological flaws\" of the nation upon the ruling dynasty of the Almoravids. Ibn Thumart strongly opposed their sponsorship of the Maliki school of jurisprudence, whom he accused of neglecting the Sunnah and Hadith (traditions and sayings of the Prophet and his companions) and relying too much on \"ijma\" (consensus of jurists) and other sources, an anathema to the stricter Zahirism favored by Ibn Tumart. Ibn Tumart condemned the subtle reasoning of Maliki scholars as \"innovations\" (\"bid‘ah\"), obscurantist, perverse and possibly heretical (a charge previously made by Ibn Hazm and al-Ghazali, and the main reason why their works were proscribed by Almoravid authorities.). Ibn Tumart also blamed the Almoravid governance for the latitude he found in Maghrebi society, notably the public sale of wine and pork in the markets, something the Qur'an forbids. Another reform was the destruction or hiding of any type of religious art in mosques. His rule and the rule of the Almohads after were full of reforms that attempted to turn the area under his control into a place where his doctrines held sway.\n\nIbn Tumart's followers took up the name \"\"al-Muwwahidun\"\", meaning those who affirm the unity of God. Spanish authors wrote that down as \"\"Almohades\"\", by which \"Almohads\" entered other languages.\n\nAfter his studies in Baghdad, Ibn Tumart is claimed in one account to have proceeded on pilgrimage to Mecca (\"hajj\"), but was so bubbling with Ash'arite doctrines and a one-minded zeal to 'correct' the mores of the people he came across that he quickly made a nuisance of himself and was expelled from the city. He proceeded to Cairo, and thereon to Alexandria, where he took a ship back to the Maghreb in 1117/18. The journey was not without incident - Ibn Tumart took it upon himself to toss the ship's flasks of wine overboard and set about lecturing (or harassing) the sailors to ensure they adhered to correct prayer times and number of genuflections; in some reports, the sailors got fed up and threw Ibn Tumart overboard, only to find him still bobbing a half-day later and fished him back (he is also reported in different chronicles of having either caused or calmed a storm at sea).\n\nAfter touching at Tripoli, Ibn Tumart landed in Mahdia and proceed on to Tunis and then Bejaia, preaching a puritan, simplistic Islam along the way. Waving his puritan's staff among crowds of listeners, Ibn Tumart complained of the mixing of sexes in public, the production of wine and music, and the fashion of veiling men unveiling women (a custom among the Sanhaja Berbers of the Sahara Desert, that had spread to urban centers with the Almoravids). Setting himself up on the steps of mosques and schools, Ibn Tumart challenged everyone who came close to debate – unwary Maliki jurists and scholars frequently got an earful.\n\nHis antics and fiery preaching prompted fed-up authorities to hustle him along from town to town. After being expelled from Bejaia, Ibn Tumart set himself up c.1119 at an encampment in Mellala (a few miles south of the city), where he began receiving his first followers and adherents. Among these were al-Bashir (a scholar, who would become his chief strategist), Abd al-Mu'min (a Zenata Berber who would become his eventual successor) and Abu Bakr Muhammad al-Baydhaq (who would later write the \"Kitab al-Ansab\", the chronicle of the Almohads.) It was at Mellala that Ibn Tumart and his close companions began forging a plan of political action.\n\nIn 1120, Ibn Tumart and his small band of followers headed west into Morocco. He stopped by Fez, the intellectual capital of Morocco, and engaged in polemical debates with the leading Malikite scholars of the city. Having exhausted them, the \"ulama\" of Fez decided they had enough and expelled him from the city. He proceeded south, hurried along from town to town like a vagabond (reportedly, he and his companions had to swim across the Bou Regreg, as they could not afford the ferry passage). Shortly after his arrival in Marrakesh, Ibn Tumart is said to have successfully sought out the Almoravid ruler Ali ibn Yusuf at a local mosque. In the famous encounter, when ordered to acknowledge the presence of the emir, Ibn Tumart reportedly replied \"Where is the emir? I see only women here!\" - an insulting reference to the tagelmust veil worn by the Almoravid ruling class. (According to one source, Ibn Tumart attacked the emir's own sister for going unveiled).\n\nCharged with fomenting rebellion, Ibn Tumart defended himself before the emir and his leading advisors. Presenting himself as a mere scholar, a voice for reform, Ibn Tumart set about lecturing the emir and his leading advisors about the dangers of innovations and the centrality of the Sunnah. When the emir's own scholars reminded him the Almoravids too embraced puritanical ideals, and were committed to the Sunnah, Ibn Tumart pointed out that the Almoravids professed puritanism had been clouded and deviated by \"obscurantists\", drawing attention to the ample evidence of laxity and impiety that prevailed in their dominions. When countered that at least on points of doctrine, there was little difference between them, Ibn Tumart brought out more emphasis on his own peculiar doctrines on the \"tawhid\" and the attributes. After a lengthy examination, the Almoravid jurists of Marrakesh concluded Ibn Tumart, however learned, was blasphemous and dangerous, insinuating he was probably a Kharijite agitator, and recommended he should be executed or imprisoned. The Almoravid emir, however, decided to merely expel him from the city, after a flogging of fourteen lashes. \nIbn Tumart proceeded to Aghmat and immediately resumed his old behavior - destroying every jug of wine in sight, haranguing passers-by for impious behavior or dress, engaging locals in controversial debate. The ulama of Aghmat complained to the emir, who changed his mind and decided to have Ibn Tumart arrested after all. He was saved by the timely intervention of Abu Ibrahim Ismail Ibn Yasallali al-Hazraji (\"Ismail Igig\"), a prominent chieftain of the Hazraja tribe of the Masmuda, who helped him escape the city. Ibn Tumart took the road towards the Sous valley, to hide among his own people, the Haghra.\n\nBefore the end of 1120, Ibn Tumart arrived at his home village of Igiliz in the Sous valley (exact location uncertain). Almost immediately, Ibn Tumart set himself up in a nearby mountain cave (a conscious echo of the Prophet Muhammad's withdraw to the cave of Hira). His bizarre retreat, his ascetic lifestyle, probably combined with rumors of his being a faith healer and small miracle-worker, gave the local people the initial impression that he was a holy man with supernatural powers (a point de-emphasized by later hagiographers). But he soon set about spreading his principal message of puritanical reform. He preached in vernacular Berber. His oratory skill and crowd-moving eloquence are frequently referred to in the chronicles.\n\nTowards the end of Ramadan in late 1121, in a particularly moving sermon, Ibn Tumart reviewed his failure to persuade the Almoravids to reform by argument. After the sermon, having already claimed to be a descendant of Muhammad, Ibn Tumart suddenly 'revealed' himself as the true Mahdi, the expected divinely guided justicer. He was promptly recognized as such by his audience. This was effectively a declaration of war on the Almoravid state. For to reject or resist the Mahdi's interpretations was equivalent to resisting God, and thus punishable with death as apostasy.\n\n(Notions of \"mahdism\" were not unfamiliar in this part of Morocco - not long before, the Sous valley had been a hotbed of Waqafite Shi'iism, a remnant of Fatimid influence, and descendance from the Prophet had been the principle recommendation of the fondly remembered Idrisids).\n\nAt some point he was visited by Abu Hafs Umar ibn Yahya al-Hintati (\"Umar Hintati\"), a prominent Hintata chieftain (and stem of the future Hafsids). Omar Hintati was immediately impressed and invited Ibn Tumart to take refuge among the Masmuda tribes of the High Atlas, where he would be better protected from the Almoravid authorities. In 1122, Ibn Tumart abandoned his cave and climbed up the High Atlas.\n\nIn later years, Ibn Tumart's path from the cave of Igiliz to mountain fort of Tinmel - another conscious echo of the Prophet's life (the \"hijra\" from Mecca to Medina) - would become a popular pilgrimage route for the Almohad faithful. The cave itself was preserved as a shrine for many years, where apparently Almohad partisans, regardless of their origin or background, would ceremonially reject their past affiliations and be \"adopted\" into Ibn Tumart's Hargha tribe).\n\nIbn Tumart urged his followers to arms in open revolt against the Almoravids, to fulfill the mission of purifying the Almoravid state. In 1122, or shortly thereafter (c. 1124) he founded a ribat at Tinmel (or 'Tin Mal', meaning \"(she who is) white\"), in a small valley of the Nfis in the middle of the High Atlas. Tinmel was an impregnable fortified complex, which would serve both as spiritual center and military headquarters of the Almohad rebellion. It is during this period that he wrote a series of monographs on various doctrines for the instruction of his men. These disparate works were later collected and compiled in 1183–84, on the order of the Almohad caliph Yusuf ibn Abd al-Ma'mun (later translated in French in 1903, under the title \"Livre d'Ibn Toumert\".)\n\nSix principal Masmuda tribes adhered to the Almohad rebellion: Ibn Tumart's own Hargha tribe (from the Anti-Atlas) and the Ganfisa, the Gadmiwa, the Hintata, the Haskura and the Hazraja (roughly from west to east, along the High Atlas range).\nFor the next eight years, the Almohad revolt was largely confined to an irresolute guerilla war through the ravines and peaks of the Atlas range. The principal damage done by the Almohads at this stage was the disruption of Almoravid tax-collection, and rendering insecure (or altogether impassable) the roads and mountain passes south of Marrakesh. The Sous valley, surrounded on three sides by Almohadist Masmuda mountaineers, was nearly cut off and isolated. Of more particular concern to the Almoravids was their threat to the Ourika and Tizi n'Tichka passes, that connected Marrakesh to the Draa valley on the other side of the High Atlas. These were the principal routes to the all-important city of Sijilmassa, gateway of the trans-Saharan trade, by which gold came from west Africa to Morocco. But the Almoravids were unable to send enough manpower through the narrow passes to dislodge the Almohad rebels from their easily defended mountain strongpoints. The Almoravid authorities reconciled themselves to setting up strongpoints to confine them (most famously the fortress of Tasghimout that protected the approach to Aghmat), while exploring alternative routes through more easterly passes.\n\nIbn Tumart's closest companion and chief strategist, al-Bashir, took upon himself the role of political commissar, enforcing doctrinal discipline among the Masmuda tribesmen, often with a heavy head. This culminated in an infamous purge (\"tamyiz\") conducted by al-Bashir in the winter of 1129–30, with mass executions of disloyal partisans, which has been characterized as a brief \"reign of terror\".\n\nIn early 1130, the Almohads finally descended from the mountains for their first sizeable attack on the Almoravids in the lowlands. It was a disaster. Al-Bashir (others report Abd al-Mu'min) led the Almohad armies first against Aghmat. They quickly defeated the Almoravid force that came out to meet them, and then chased their fleeing remnant back to Marrakesh. The Almohads set up a siege camp before Marrakesh, the first recorded siege of the Almoravid capital, whose walls had only recently been erected. The Almoravid emir Ali ibn Yusuf immediately called upon reinforcements from other parts of Morocco. After forty days of siege, in May (others date April 14, 1130), heartened by news of the approach of a relief column from Sijilmassa, the Almoravids sallied from Marrakesh in force and crushed the Almohads in the bloody Battle of al-Buhayra (named after a large garden east of the city). The Almohads were routed, suffering huge human losses - 12,000 men from the Hargha alone. Al-Bashir and several other leading figures were killed in action. If not for a sudden torrential rain that broke up the fighting and allowed the remnant to escape back to the mountains, the Almohads might have been finished off then and there.\n\nIn a bizarre and chilling footnote in the aftermath, it is said that Ibn Tumart returned to the battlefield at night with some of his followers, and ordered them to bury themselves in the field with a small straw to breathe by. Then, to invigorate the rest of the demoralized Almohads, he challenged those who doubted the righteousness of their cause, to go to the battlefield and ask the dead themselves if they were enjoying the blisses of heaven after falling in the fight for God's cause. When they heard the positive reply from the buried men, they were assuaged. To prevent the ruse from being revealed, it is said Ibn Thumart left them buried there, filling their straws so they would suffocate.\n\nIbn Tumart died in August 1130, only a few months after the disastrous defeat at al-Buhayra. That the Almohad movement did not immediately collapse by the combined blows of the crushing defeat and large losses at the walls of Marrakesh, and the deaths of not only their spiritual leader, but also their chief military commanders, is testament to the careful organization that Ibn Tumart had built up at Tinmel.\n\nIbn Tumart had set up the Almohad commune as a minutely detailed pyramidical hierarchy with fourteen grades. At the top was the \"Ahl ad-Dar\" (the Mahdi's family), supplemented by a privy council known as the Council of Ten (\"Ahl al-jamāʿā\") which included the Ifriqiyan migrants who had first joined Ibn Tumart in Mellala. There was also a wider consultative \"Council of Fifty\", composed of the \"sheikhs\" of the major Masmuda Berber tribes - the Hargha (Ibn Tumart's tribe, which had primacy in the hierarchy among the tribes), the Ganfisa, the Gadmiwa, the Hintata, the Haskura and the Hazraja. The Almohad military had been organized as arranged \"units\" named by tribe, with sub-units and internal hierarchies carefully and exactly spelled out. There were also organized groups of \"Talba\" and \"Huffaz\", the preachers that had been the original missionaries and spreaders of Ibn Tumart's message.\n\nIbn Tumart organized the inner 'Council of Ten' (\"Ahl al-jamāʿā\"), composed of the ten who had first borne witness to Ibn Tumart as \"Mahdi\". Several of them were drawn from the core of followers that Ibn Tumart had picked up in Ifriqiya (esp. while holding camp at Mallala, outside of Bejaia, in 1119-20); others were local leaders drawn from the local Masmuda Berbers who had proven early adherents. Although the list has some variations and there is some dispute in names, the Council of Ten is frequently identified as follows:\n\nOf the Council of Ten, five were killed at al-Buhayra in 1130, two died in subsequent years, and only three survived well into the height of the Almohad empire - Abd al-Mu'min, Omar Hintata and Ismail al-Hazraji.\n\nThe Almohad hagiographer al-Baydhaq claims that Ibn Tumart had already designated Abd al-Mu'min as his successor back in Bejaia. But it seems more probable (although passed over in the chronicles) that there was an intense power struggle for succession in the aftermath of Ibn Tumart's death. With half the Council of Ten killed at al-Buhayra, Abd al-Mu'min laid claim as the \"successor\" of the Ibn Tumart (the term \"caliph\", as \"successor\" of the Mahdi emerged only later, in conscious imitation of the term's original use for the \"successors\" of the Prophet Muhammad.) Abd al-Mu'min's claim was challenged by Ibn Malwiya (another survivor of the Ten) as well as by the Ahl al-Dar (Ibn Tumart's brothers).\n\nExactly how Abd al-Mu'min imposed himself is uncertain. As a Zenata Berber, Abd al-Mu'min was an alien among the Masmuda. But that foreignness itself might have recommended him as a neutral choice to the Masmuda \"sheikhs\", as it would avoid the appearance of favoritism towards any particular tribe. Nonetheless it is reported that the more easterly Masmuda tribes, the Haskura and the Harzaja, rejected Abd al-Mu'min's leadership and broke away from the Almohad coalition at this stage. Abd al-Mu'min would have to force them back to the fold. (Ibn Khaldun reports (improbably) that Abd al-Ma'mun managed to conceal the death of Ibn Tumart for nearly two years, in order to gather allies and marry the daughter of Omar Hintati, who would become his principal ally.) His principal rival Ibn Malwiya was captured, condemned and executed by 1132, and Ibn Tumart's own family soon disappears from significance, their roles eclipsed by Abd al-Mu'min's own family, the future dynasty of Almohad caliphs. Whatever doubts lingered about Abd al-Mu'min's leadership certainly dissipated a decade later, when Abd al-Mu'min led the renewed Almohads down from the mountains on a seven-year campaign of conquest of Morocco, culminating in the fall of Marrakesh in 1147.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857886", "title": "List of compositions by Camille Saint-Saëns", "text": "List of compositions by Camille Saint-Saëns\n\nBelow is a list of compositions by Camille Saint-Saëns. The works are categorized by genre, opus number, Ratner catalogue number, date of composition and titles. R numbers are from \"Camille Saint-Saëns 1835–1921: A Thematic Catalogue of His Complete Works\" by Sabina Teller Ratner (Oxford University Press).\n"}
{"id": "1857890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857890", "title": "Glastonbury chair", "text": "Glastonbury chair\n\nGlastonbury chair is a nineteenth-century term for an earlier wooden chair, usually of oak, possibly based on a chair made for Richard Whiting, the last Abbot of Glastonbury, England. The Glastonbury chair was known to exist since the Early Middle Ages, but seems to have disappeared from use in part of the Later Middle Ages; it re-emerged in use in Italy by the fifteenth century AD. \n\nIn England it was made originally from a description brought back from Rome in 1504 by Abbot Richard Beere to Glastonbury Abbey, and was produced for or by John Arthur Thorne, a monk who was the treasurer at the abbey. Arthur perished on Glastonbury Tor in 1539, hung, drawn and quartered alongside his master, Richard Whiting, the last Abbot of Glastonbury, during the dissolution of the monasteries. The Abbot sat on a Glastonbury chair during his trial at Bishop's Palace, Wells, where one of the two original surviving examples (illustrated) can still be seen, together with other chairs of this age and later reproductions.\n\nAnother chair of the same style, believed at the time to be of the same date, was owned by Horace Walpole and kept in his Gothic pile Strawberry Hill in Twickenham, Middlesex. When the contents were sold in 1842, the then vicar of Glastonbury, the Reverend Lionel Lewis, made an impassioned speech telling the bidders the chair belonged in Glastonbury. Nobody bidding against him, Lewis took the chair to St John's Church in Glastonbury where it remains. However, this chair is now believed to be a later copy.\nThe Glastonbury chair design has become popular with reenactors, owing to its simple construction, wide availability of plans, and the opportunity for extensive decorative carving. As a result, there are likely more chairs of this pattern in existence now than there ever were in period.\n\nThe chair does not fold. Although it is frequently assumed to do so, especially when made with circular tenons, triangular frames remain rigid even if they are joined by bearings. If the tenons are tusked then the chair may be quickly \"dismantled\" for shipping. Chairs for re-enactment are usually made in this way, but there is no evidence in period that they were regarded as being especially portable.\n"}
{"id": "1857891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857891", "title": "Light cavalry", "text": "Light cavalry\n\nLight cavalry comprises lightly armed and lightly armoured troops mounted on horses, as opposed to heavy cavalry, where the riders (and sometimes the warhorses) are heavily armored. The missions of the light cavalry were primarily raiding, reconnaissance, screening, skirmishing, patrolling, and tactical communications. They were usually armed with swords, spears, or bows, and later on with pistols or carbines.\n\nLight cavalry was used infrequently by the Greeks and Romans (though Roman auxiliaries were often mounted), but were popular among the armies of Eastern Europe, Central Asia, and Western Asia.\n\nThe Arabs, Cossacks, Hungarians, Huns, Kalmycks, Mongols, Turks, Parthians, and Persians were all adept light cavalrymen and horse archers.\n\nWith the decline of feudalism and knighthood in Europe, light cavalry became more prominent in the armies of the continent. Many were equipped with firearms, as their predecessors had been with bows. European examples of light cavalry included stradiots, hobelars, hussars, \"chasseurs à cheval\", cossacks, \"chevau-légers\", uhlans and some dragoons.\n\nArmies of the ancient Roman-Germanic wars made use of light cavalry as patrolling squads, or armed scouts, and often had them in the front lines during regional battles.\n\nDuring the Punic Wars, one of Carthage's main advantages over Roman armies was its extensive use of Numidian light cavalry. Partly because of this, the Roman general Scipio Africanus recruited his own cavalry from Sicily before his invasion of Tunisia during the Second Punic War.\n\nTypes of light cavalry that were developed and used in medieval armies.\n\nLight cavalry played a key role in mounted scouting, escorting and skirmishing during the Napoleonic era. Light horse also served a function in major set-piece battles. While lacking the sheer offensive power of heavy cavalry, light cavalry were still extremely effective against unprepared infantry and artillery. All infantry commanders were forced to respect the danger any cavalry presented to their forces, and light cavalry were effective at changing the movement of enemy forces simply through their presence. In the aftermath of battles, light cavalry were used to press a victor's advantage or to screen retreating forces from further attack.\n\n\nAs late as the early 1900s, most European armies still retained a nominal division of mounted troops according to the size and weight of the men,\ninto \"light cavalry\" (raiding, reconnaissance, and screening), \"medium cavalry\" (offense or defense), and \"heavy cavalry\" (direct shock). While colonial warfare had led to a blurring of these distinctions in the British army, tradition remained strong in the cavalry arm of some other nations. As an example, the Imperial German army maintained a marked difference between the sizes and weights of the men and horses allocated to the hussar regiments that made up its light cavalry and those of the other two categories. The early weeks of World War I saw light cavalry attempting to continue its long established function of being the \"eyes and ears\" of the respective main armies. However, despite some early success, the advent of trench warfare and aircraft observation quickly rendered this role obsolete, except to an extent in the Middle East in 1917, and in Eastern Europe where light cavalry mounted actions on a diminishing scale continued to occur until the revolution of 1917 took Russia out of the war.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857896", "title": "Ugo Bassi", "text": "Ugo Bassi\n\nUgo Bassi (August 12, 1800 – August 8, 1849) was a Roman Catholic priest and Italian nationalist. Bassi was born at Cento, Emilia-Romagna, and received his early education at University of Bologna.\n\nAn unhappy love affair induced him to become a novice in the Barnabite order when eighteen years old. He returned to Rome, where he led a life of study and devotion, and entered into his ministry in 1833. It was as a preacher that he became famous, his sermons attracting large crowds owing to their eloquence and genuine enthusiasm. He lived chiefly in Bologna, but travelled all over Italy preaching and tending the poor. He was so poor himself that he often did not have food to eat.\n\nAt the outbreak of the revolutionary movements in 1848, Pope Pius IX still appeared to be a Liberal and an Italian nationalist. As a result, Father Bassi, filled with enthusiasm, joined General Durando's papal force to protect the frontiers as an army chaplain. His eloquence drew fresh recruits to the ranks, and he exercised great influence over the soldiers and people. When the Supreme Pontiff renounced all connection with the nationalist movement, it was only Bassi who could restrain Bolognese Liberals in their indignation.\n\nAt Treviso, where he had followed Guidotti's volunteers against the Austrians, he received three wounds, delighted to shed his blood for Italy (May 12, 1848). He was taken to Venice, and on his recovery he marched unarmed at the head of the volunteers in the fight at Mestre. After the Pope's flight from Rome and the proclamation of the Roman Republic, Bassi took part with Garibaldi's forces against the French troops sent to re-establish the temporal power. He risked his life many times while tending the wounded under fire, and when Garibaldi was forced to retreat from Rome with his volunteers his chaplain followed him in his march to San Marino.\n\nWhen the legion broke up, Garibaldi escaped. But Father Bassi and a fellow-Garibaldian, Count Livraghi, after a long manhunt were captured near Comacchio. On being brought before the papal governor, Bassi said: \"I am guilty of no crime save that of being an Italian like yourself. I have risked my life for Italy, and your duty is to do good to those who have suffered for her.\" The governor responded by handing the prisoners over to an Austrian officer. They were escorted to Bologna, convicted by a military tribunal with having been caught bearing arms. Both men were executed by firing squad on 8 August 1849.\n\nThe execution of Father Bassi enraged Liberals all over Europe.\n\nUgo Bassi is spoken of in James Aitken Wylie's History of the Papacy in Chapter XI The Sacraments. Under note 9 for that chapter Wylie says - \n\nFrom a recent barbarity, we should infer that the modern Romanists place the seat of this impression in the finger points. Ugo Bassi, the chaplain of Garibaldi, had the skin peeled of the tips of his fingers before being shot.\n"}
{"id": "1857897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857897", "title": "King George Sound (Western Australia)", "text": "King George Sound (Western Australia)\n\nKing George Sound is the name of a sound on the south coast of Western Australia. Originally named King George the Third's Sound, it was referred to as King George's Sound from 1805 (Sydney Gazette 13/10/1805). The name \"King George Sound\" gradually came into use from about 1934, prompted by new Admiralty charts supporting the intention to eliminate the possessive 's' from geographical names.\n\nThe sound covers an area of and varies in depth from to and is the site of the city of Albany.\nThe sound is bordered by the mainland to the north, by Vancouver Peninsula on the west, and by Bald Head and Flinders Peninsula to the south. Although the sound is open water to the east, the waters are partially protected by Breaksea Island and Michaelmas Island. There are two harbours located within the sound, Princess Royal Harbour to the west and Oyster Harbour to the north. Each receives excellent protection from winds and heavy seas. Princess Royal Harbour was Western Australia's only deep-water port for around 70 years until the Fremantle Inner Harbour was opened in 1897.\n\nThe first reported visit to King George Sound by a European was in 1791 by the English explorer Captain George Vancouver. Vancouver named it \"King George the Third's Sound\" after the reigning monarch.\n\nThe next Europeans to visit the sound were Captain Dennis of the \"Kingston\", and Captain Dixson of the \"Elligood\". \"Kingston\" and \"Elligood\" were whalers and while there caught three whales. Dixson left an inscribed piece of copper plate behind.\n\nMatthew Flinders anchored in the sound from 8 December 1801 to 5 January 1802 and explored the area. While he was there, his men found the copper plate Dixson had left. During this time Robert Brown (ship's botanist) and Peter Good (ship's gardener) collected samples of over 500 plant species.\n\nNicolas Baudin arrived in the sound in February 1803 aboard \"Le Geographe\" to rendezvous with Louis de Freycinet aboard the before doing further exploration of the Western Australian coastline. During the course of their stay the ship's naturalist François Péron, collected 1060 new species of shellfish and a large number of starfish from the sound.\n\nPhillip Parker King visited the sound in 1818 aboard the cutter while en route to conduct a nautical survey of the North West Cape, and Frenchman Dumont d'Urville visited it in 1826 aboard the \"Astrolabe\".\n\nOn 25 December 1826, the New South Wales colonial government brig \"Amity\", under the command of Major Edmund Lockyer, arrived at King George Sound to establish a possessory military settlement. Lockyer named his settlement \"Fredrick Town\" after George III's second son, Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany, but this name never gained wide acceptance. Instead the settlement and surrounding locality were usually referred to as King George's Sound. In 1832, Governor of Western Australia Captain (later Admiral) James Stirling declared the settlement a town and renamed it Albany, but the broader locality continued to be referred to as King George's Sound for many years.\n\nIn 1834 Robert Dale published in London a panorama print of the view from Mount Clarence accompanied by a pamphlet describing the sound and the geography, geology, flora, fauna and native inhabitants of the immediate region.\n\nOn 8 March 1836, HMS \"Beagle\" visited King George Sound and anchored there for eight days. On board was the young naturalist Charles Darwin, who collected specimens on shore. \"Beagle\" was on the homeward leg of her celebrated circumnavigation of the world, having already stopped off at Sydney.\n\nUntil the construction of Fremantle Harbour in 1897, King George Sound contained the only deepwater port in Western Australia, and so was the favoured location for delivery of mail and supplies from abroad to Western Australia. These were then transported to Perth and Fremantle by road or coastal shipping until the early 1890s, when the completion of the Great Southern Railway provided a quicker service.\n\nAlbany Port is located on the north shore of Princess Royal Harbour adjacent to the city of Albany. The port was first established in 1826 and has been expanded regularly since. The port now has five berths able to cater to panamax class vessels. The port typically caters for loading of about 120 vessels per annum.\n\nIn 1914, King George Sound was the last Australian anchorage for the fleet taking the first Australian and New Zealand soldiers, later to become known as Anzacs, to Egypt. A memorial to the Anzacs of the Desert Mounted Corps has been established on top of Mount Clarence. Albany was where the first commemorative dawn service was held on Anzac Day, 25 April 1923. The contribution of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, president of Turkey from 1923 until 1938 is recognised by naming the entrance into Princess Royal Harbour as Atatürk Entrance.\n\nThere is evidence that shore-based bay whaling was carried out in Barker Bay, by James Daniels, as early as 1849. Whaling ships from Hobart also visited the area in the 2nd half of the 19th century. The Cheyne Beach Whaling Company began operating out of Frenchman Bay, located within the sound, in 1952 with a small quota of 50 humpback whales that was eventually increased to 175. At the peak of the whaling activity in the sound the company was taking between 900 and 1100 sperm and humpback whales in a year. Humpback whaling was banned in 1963 which in turn decreased the viability of the operation.\n\nIn 1978 the Cheynes Beach Whaling Company closed down after increasing environmental lobby group pressure. It was Australia's last coastal whaling company.\n\nInstallation of a shark barrier was commenced and completed in March 2016 at Middleton Beach at the north western end of the sound.\n\nDense seagrass beds still exist in King George Sound, although they have been adversely affected by increased nutrient levels and industry in the area. Some of the seagrasses present in the sound include \"Posidonia australis, Posidonia robertsoneae, Posidonia kirkmanii, Posidonia sinuosa, Posidonia denhartogii, Posidonia ostenfeldii, Amphibolis antarctica, Amphibolis griffithii, Halophila australis, Halophila ovalis, Ruppia megacarpa\" and \"Heterozostera tasmanica\".\n\nThe fringing vegetation around the sound includes both the saltmarshes of Oyster Harbour and Princess Royal Harbour, and the sandy beach vegetation. Saltmarshes contain a variety of species including samphire, seablite, astartea, wattle, greenbush, shore rush, twig rush and saltwater paperbark \nFreshwater species also occur in areas where substantial freshwater seepage occurs.\nSandy beach areas contain a mix of shrubs and sedges such as the grey white cushion bush, coast sword sedge, knotted club rush, sea rocket, pigface and false caper.\n\nThe sound comprises a wide variety of habitats that supports an abundance of marine life.\nMany species of corals are present including Turbinaria frondens, Turbinaria mesenterina and Turbinaria renformis which cover an extensive area. Other coral species that can be found include Scolymia australis, Plesiastrea versipora, Coscinaraea mcneilli and Coscinaraea marshae.\n\nA large, wild mussel population was known to exist in the sound, and now commercial mussel farms operate within the area that grow and harvest Blue mussels.\n\nIt is estimated that 203 species of fish inhabit the Oyster Harbour, Princess Royal Harbour and King George Sound, with Australian pilchards \"Sardinops sagax neopilchardus\" making up 97% of the total fish catch. Other species that are commonly found include Australian herring, leatherjackets, cobbler, King George whiting, tailor, Australian anchovy, garfish, sand trevally, tarwhine, flathead, tuna, snapper, Australian salmon, yellowtail scad, sea mullet, striped trumpeter, long-toothed flounder, dusky morwong and long-finned goby.\n\nSeals are known to inhabit the sound in various locations along the coast and on the islands. The species that are sighted most often are the Australian sea lion and the New Zealand fur seal. Species that have been sighted, but are considered to be occasional visitors, include the subantarctic fur seal and the leopard seal.\n\nDolphins are also found in the area, and are occasionally caught and drowned in fishing nets or stranded. The common dolphin \"Delphinus delphis\" and the bottlenose dolphin \"Tursiops truncates\" have both been recorded in the area.\n\nSouthern right whales and humpback whales frequent the area between July and October when they congregate to mate and calve in the protected waters of the sound. Other whales that have been spotted in the area include minke whales, blue whales, short-finned pilot whales, false killer whales and killer whales. Sperm whales were known to visit the sound during the whaling era but none have been sighted recently, although a pod was detected further out in the Southern Ocean in 2002.\n\nThe sound becomes a perfect habitat for migratory wading birds during the summer, when an estimated 2,000-3,000 birds flock to the area to feed in the shallow mudflats of the harbours. Some of the species that can be found during the summer months include the red-necked stint and the red knot as well as sandpipers, grey plovers, red capped plovers, lesser sand plovers, grey-tailed tattlers, Eurasian whimbrels, common greenshanks, yellow-billed spoonbill, white-faced heron and stilts. Other birds that are commonly seen around the sound include cormorants, pied oystercatchers, sooty oystercatchers, Pacific gulls, Caspian terns, pelicans, ospreys and white-bellied sea eagles.\n\nThe Western Australian south coast is formed along the edge of the southern margin of the Yilgarn craton and is fringed with prominent headlands composed of granite and gneisses formed during Proterozoic tectonic activity. Arcuate Bays that contain beaches backed by holocene dunes are found between the headlands.\n\nKing George Sound includes many islands and some islets, all comprising granitoid rocks with accumulations of soil on most.\n\nIslands of note include Breaksea Island, Michaelmas Island, Seal Island, Mistaken Island, and Green Island.\n\nThe tidal range in King George Sound (including Princess Royal Harbour and Oyster Harbour) is with spring tidal range of . Tidal levels can remain static for periods of time. Semi-diurnal tides are frequent and diurnal tides are occasional.\n\nThe temperature of the water in the sound is slightly different from that of the open sea.\nThe salinity level within the Sound remains relatively constant ranging between 34.8 and 35.5 '‰', the lower levels occurring during heavy winter rain events when large volumes of freshwater enter the sound from the King and Kalgan rivers.\n\nThe Leeuwin Current exerts some influence in the sound as it flows eastwards along the continental shelf in the main part of the sound.\n\nMany wrecks exist within King George Sound. The most recent and best known is the guided missile destroyer \"HMAS Perth\", which was scuttled in 2001 in of water off Seal Island, to be used as a dive-site.\n\nThe former whale chaser \"Cheynes\" was sold for scrap in 1961 and was subsequently sunk between Michaelmas Island and the northern shoreline of the sound. Another chaser in the fleet, \"Cheynes II\", was blown ashore on Geak Point near Quaranup in Princess Royal Harbour in 1990 and is still there, approximately off-shore.\n\nThe \"Lady Lyttleton\" sank in the Emu Point channel when repairs were attempted in 1867.\n\nA Hobart wooden barque, the \"Fanny Nicholson\" was being used as a whaling vessel when it ran ashore during a gale in 1872. The remains can still be seen in shallow water in Frenchman Bay. Another Tasmanian whaling barque, the \"Runnymede\", met a similar fate when it ran aground during a storm in 1881.\n\nTwo wrecks within the sound are protected under the federal Historic Shipwrecks Act 1976. These are the wooden barque \"Athena\" that sank in 1908, and the wooden boat \"Elvie\" that sank in 1923.\n\nIn 1868, \"Northumberland\", a wooden barque laden with 2000 tonnes of coal, grounded on a reef off Bald Head near the entrance to King George Sound. The ship was freed and sailed into the sound with a broken rudder, the crew eventually abandoned ship and took to the life boats. \"Northumberland\" foundered and sank between Cape Vancouver and Breaksea Island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857903", "title": "Ctistae", "text": "Ctistae\n\nThe Ctistae or Ktistai () were a group/class among the Mysians of ancient Thracian culture.\n\nThe Mysians avoided consuming any living thing, and therefore lived on such foodstuffs as milk and honey. For this reason, they were referred to as \"god-fearing\" and \"capnobatae\" (kapnobatai) or \"smoke-treading\".\n\nThe Ctistae were a class of Mysians who not only observed these dietary restrictions, but abstained from cohabitating with women. They led celibate lives, never marrying. They were held in a place of honor by the Thracians, with their lives being dedicated to the gods. They are described by Strabo, sourcing Poseidonius.\nAccording to Strabo, whether they took up celibacy or not they were collectively called Hippemolgi (\"mare-milkers\"), Galactophagi (\"living on milk\") or Abii (\"not living (with women)\").\n\nStrabo, in the same section notes that the Greeks confounded the Mysians with the Getae (or Geto-Dacians).\n\nThat the Ctistae described by Strabo might be equivalent to the \"Polistai\" among the Dacians mentioned by Josephus in the Antiquities of the Jews Book 18, Chapter 1 paragraph 5 has been noted early on by Scaliger (d. 1609). He conjectured that some of the ascetics lived in groups and lived in buildings, hence the distinction of being called \"Polistai\" \"City-Dwellers\" .\n"}
{"id": "1857913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857913", "title": "Giacomo Durando", "text": "Giacomo Durando\n\nGiacomo Durando (4 February 1807 – 21 August 1894) was an Italian general and statesman. His brother Giovanni was also a general of the Risorgimento and a senator.\n\nDurando was born at Mondovì, in Piedmont. He graduated in law in Turin in 1829.\n\nHe was implicated in a liberal plot aiming to extort a constitution from king Charles Felix: after having been discovered, he was obliged to take refuge abroad together with his brother, first in Kentucky and then in France. In 1831 he fought in a foreign corps in the Belgian Revolution, and, the following year, he moved to Nashville where he was enrolled in a cavalry regiment of the constitutionalist army of King Pedro IV. The following year he entered the service of Spain, when he fought in various campaigns, and was promoted colonel in 1838.\n\nAfter a short stay in France he returned to Italy and identified himself with the Liberal movement; he became an active journalist, and founded a newspaper called \"L'Opinione\" in 1847. In 1848 he was one of those who asked King Charles Albert for the constitution.\n\nOn the outbreak of the First Italian Independence War against Austria he took command of the Lombard volunteers as major-general, and in the campaign of 1849 he was \"aide-de-camp\" to the king. He was elected member of the first Piedmontese parliament and was a strenuous supporter of Cavour; during the Sardinian expedition to Crimean he took General La Marmora's place as war minister.\n\nIn 1855 he was nominated senator, lieutenant-general in 1856 and ambassador at Constantinople in 1856, and minister for foreign affairs in the Rattazzi cabinet two years later. During the Third Italian War of Independence his brother Giovanni commanded the I Corps, which was badly mauled at Custoza. He was president of the Italian Senate from 1884 to 1887, after which year he retired from the army.\n\nHe died at Rome in August 1894.\n\n\n<br>\n\n<BR>\n"}
{"id": "1857914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857914", "title": "Fatal Attractions (comics)", "text": "Fatal Attractions (comics)\n\n\"Fatal Attractions\" is a major X-Men crossover written by Fabian Nicieza and Scott Lobdell, published by Marvel Comics in 1993. Spanning the entire line of books, it served to commemorate the 30th anniversary of Marvel's X-Men.\n\nWhen Magneto and his Acolytes return, a new confrontation with the X-Men begins, with Professor Xavier tempted to cross a moral line to stop them.\n\nThe Acolytes, now led by Fabian Cortez, attack Camp Hayden, the headquarters for \"Project: Wideawake\", the latest government Sentinel program. The base is defended by government-sponsored mutant team X-Factor, and as the battle rages Cortez makes an offer to Quicksilver to be the Acolyte's new leader, accepting his role as Magneto's heir. The Acolytes leave after Quicksilver strongly declines.\n\nX-Force is approached by the mutant Exodus, who brings an offer of sanctuary from an unknown greater power. It is revealed that the \"sanctuary\" (which is referred to as Avalon) is in fact Cable's former base of operations Graymalkin (now retrofitted with Shiar technology), and the \"greater power\" to be the mutant Magneto, who was presumed dead after the fall of Asteroid M. Cable teleports X-Force away from Avalon using the station's bodyslide technology, while he retrieves the sentient computer program Professor from the central core and activate the auto-destruct function. However, he is only successful in the former objective, as Magneto prevents him from fulfilling the latter, and Cable very nearly loses his life in a lopsided battle before teleporting himself out. The mutants Rusty and Skids, who were cured of their brainwashing at Stryfe's hands by Magneto, elect to stay aboard Avalon.\n\nWhile the X-Men are burying Illyana Rasputin (who was killed by the Legacy Virus), Magneto and the Acolytes crash the funeral, stating their intentions to wipe out humanity from Avalon, their space station. Colossus, distraught over his sister's death and faltering in his faith in Professor X and his dream, joins Magneto and the Acolytes.\n\nThe UN Security Council activates the Magneto Protocols, which uses a network of satellites to create a barrier around the planet that will prevent Magneto from using his powers from within. Magneto retaliates by unleashing an electromagnetic pulse on the Earth that creates havoc on the world's electrical systems. Professor X dons a Shi'ar exoskeleton that enables him to walk, and assembles Jean Grey, Gambit, Rogue, Quicksilver and Wolverine to go to Avalon and stop Magneto. Arriving via Shi'ar teleportation device, the team boards Avalon and disables the station with a virus created by Beast. Magneto engages the X-Men in battle, and in a fit of rage after nearly being gutted by Wolverine, tears the adamantium out of Wolverine's skeleton. Professor X, enraged by Magneto's actions, mindwipes Magneto, leaving him in a coma. The X-Men race back to Earth to treat Wolverine, while Colossus stays in a devastated Avalon to care for the comatose Magneto.\n\nAs the Blackbird returns to Earth, it runs into rough turbulence. Flashes of Wolverine's consciousness are shown as he struggles to stay alive. The X-Men on Earth watch in horror as the crew frantically tries to stabilize the ship and care for Wolverine. The ship's hatch opens, and Wolverine sees himself \"going towards the light\", but he is pushed back. He awakens in time to prevent Jean Grey from getting sucked out of the Blackbird. The X-Men land on the Earth safely. As Wolverine recovers from his injuries, he and the X-Men learn that his claws were a part of his actual skeletal structure all along, as he now possesses claws made of bone.\n\nOn Muir Island, the X-Men use Shadowcat to lure in Colossus in an effort to heal his head wound (caused by the X-Cutioner), which they believed was responsible for his defection. The ruse works, and while Nightcrawler fends off the Acolytes' attempts to reclaim their ally, Professor X and Moira MacTaggert heal Colossus, using Cyclops' optic blast. Once again able to return to his human form, Colossus still elects to remain amongst the Acolytes, to keep them in check.\n\n\n\nInitial installments of \"Fatal Attractions\" sold higher than the issues of the participating series which preceded them, but noticeably less than previous X-Men crossovers. \"Wizard\" magazine speculated that this was due to fan disappointment with recent X-Men crossovers, such as \"X-Cutioner's Song\".\n\n\nThe story has been collected into a trade paperback\n\nThe story has been collected into an Omnibus Hardcover\nCollecting: Uncanny X-Men 298-305, 315, Annual 17; X-Factor 87-92; X-Men Unlimited 1-2; X-Force 25; X-Men 25; Wolverine 75; Excalibur 71\n"}
{"id": "1857915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857915", "title": "Dynamica", "text": "Dynamica\n\nDynamica was a record label, founded by Jor and Anna Rosen after the success of Machinery Records specifically to release industrial metal music, hence the slogan \"Metal-Hacking-Industrialism\".\n\nBoth labels later came under the \"Noise Records\" banner, a label of Modern Music Records, but still continued to release music under their own names. When Modern Music was acquired by the Sanctuary Records Group. the label \"Dynamica\" (and also \"Machinery\") was officially dropped.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857916", "title": "Adelaide College of Divinity", "text": "Adelaide College of Divinity\n\nAdelaide College of Divinity (ACD) is an accredited higher education provider offering diploma, associate and bachelor's degrees, graduate diplomas, master and doctoral degrees in ministry, it is also a Registered Training Organisation offering certificates and a diploma.\n\nThe ACD offers qualifications in its own right in the vocational and higher education sectors and, except for the period 2011-2013, its teaching staff have formed the Department of Theology at Flinders University in the Faculties of Education, Humanities and Law.\n\nThe ACD brought together the Adelaide Theological Library, from the collections of the three colleges. The library has grown since the merger and in 2006 held over 60,000 volumes, including many dating back before 1850 and some to the 17th century.\n\nWithin the college grounds is a labyrinth designed by Adelaide stained glass artist Cedar Prest to honour the journeys of refugees and migrants. Symbols incorporated in the labyrinth include a large chalice and a central wafer - a reference to Holy Communion. A stylised version of the labyrinth is used as the college logo.\n\nThe ACD started as an ecumenical consortium of the theological colleges of the Anglican (St Barnabas College), Baptist (Burleigh College), Roman Catholic (the St Francis Xavier Seminary, now the Catholic Theological College) and Uniting (Parkin-Wesley College, from December 2008 known as Uniting College for Leadership and Theology) Churches in 1979, with the Bible College of South Australia in 1980, in Adelaide, South Australia.\n\nIn late September 1997, the then three constituent colleges in Adelaide moved to a campus at Brooklyn Park, South Australia which had been vacated by the Salesian College. Teaching began on 7 October and the ACD campus was officially opened on Sunday, 9 November by the Governor of South Australia, Sir Eric Neal.\n\nNungalinya College was associated with the ACD at one time. Nungalinya College is ecumenical with a focus on theological education and training for ministry for Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. It is located in Darwin, Northern Territory.\n\nIn 2003, the Uniting Church moved its distance education focused Coolamon College from Brisbane to Adelaide where it joined the ACD In Brisbane it had been a member of the Brisbane College of Theology and also offered Sydney College of Divinity courses.\n\nIn 2009 the Anglican synod voted in favour of withdrawing St Barnabas' College from the ACD and affiliating with the School of Theology of Charles Sturt University. In 2010, the Catholic theological college withdrew from the consortium to become part of the new Adelaide Theological Centre.\n\nUniting College for Leadership and Theology has been joined by Trinity College Queensland. Trinity was initially a member of the Brisbane College of Theology that was wound up in 2009, and then offered Australian Catholic University qualifications before joining the ACD.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857917", "title": "Charlie Hough", "text": "Charlie Hough\n\nCharles Oliver Hough (; born January 5, 1948) is an American former professional baseball player and coach. He played in Major League Baseball as a knuckleball pitcher from 1970 to 1994.\n\nHough was drafted out of Hialeah High School in the 8th round of the 1966 Major League Baseball draft by the Los Angeles Dodgers. While in high school, he had spent the summer of 1964 pitching against collegiate competition for the Chatham A's of the Cape Cod Baseball League. \n\nAfter pitching in the low minor leagues from 1967 to 1969 with the Ogden Dodgers, Santa Barbara Dodgers and Albuquerque Dodgers with limited success, Hough's career and fortunes changed dramatically when he learned how to throw a knuckleball in spring training in 1970, leading to a successful season with the Spokane Indians in AAA, where he led the Pacific Coast League in saves and posted a 1.95 ERA.\n\nHe made his major league debut against the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1970 but did not join the Dodgers bullpen full-time until the 1973 season. He became a top reliever for the Dodgers from 1973 until he was sold to the Texas Rangers in 1980. With the Dodgers, he was one of the pitchers who served up one of the three home runs that New York Yankees slugger Reggie Jackson hit on three straight pitches in Game 6 of the 1977 World Series.\nHe was converted into a starting pitcher in Texas, where he pitched from 1980 to 1990, making his only All-Star team in 1986. He left Texas as the franchise leader in wins, strikeouts, complete games and losses. He was famous for his \"dancing knuckleball\" pitch that he threw around 80% of the time. Hough complemented his knuckleball with a fastball and slider. Hough was well known for throwing a large number of complete games each season and led the league in 1984 with 17, but his last complete game of the season was a misfortunate one as the opposing California Angels' Mike Witt hurled a perfect game.\n\nIn 1987, Hough, in battery with Geno Petralli, put Petralli in the record books as Petralli committed four passed balls in one inning to tie the major league record of Ray Katt, catching knuckleballer Hoyt Wilhelm in 1954. The record was later tied by Ryan Lavarnway of the Boston Red Sox in 2013, catching knuckleballer Steven Wright in his first major league start.\n\nHe pitched for the Chicago White Sox from 1991 to 1992, where, at 43 years old, he found himself pitching to 43-year-old Carlton Fisk as his batterymate.\n\nHe joined the expansion Florida Marlins for the 1993 season and started the first regular season game in team history, on April 5, pitching six innings for the win as the Marlins defeated the Dodgers 6-3. He retired at age 46 after the 1994 season. He was the last active player to have been born in the 1940s.\n\nDuring a 25-season career, Hough compiled 216 wins, 2,362 strikeouts and a 3.75 earned run average. His 216 wins rank 86th all-time on the all-time win list, tied with Wilbur Cooper and Curt Schilling. However, Hough also recorded 216 losses, making him the winningest pitcher in history to have lost as many games as he won.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857918", "title": "Western Province (Papua New Guinea)", "text": "Western Province (Papua New Guinea)\n\nWestern Province () is a coastal province in southwestern Papua New Guinea, bordering the Indonesian province of Papua. The provincial capital is Daru. The largest town in the province is Tabubil. Other major settlements are Kiunga, Ningerum, Olsobip and Balimo.\n\nThe provincial government has, as with the governments of North Solomons, Chimbu and Northern provinces, sought to change the name of the province. The government uses the name Fly River Provincial Government; however, this remains unofficial as it has not been changed in the Constitution of Papua New Guinea.\n\nWestern Province covers 99,300 km² and is the largest province in Papua New Guinea by area. There are several large rivers that run through the province, including the Fly River and its tributaries the Strickland and Ok Tedi rivers. The largest lake in Papua New Guinea, Lake Murray, is also in Western Province.\n\nThis province is the only part of Papua New Guinea to hold land west of the 141°E line, which divides it from Indonesian Western New Guinea. This is a small section of territory bordered by the Fly River.\n\nThe Tonda Wildlife Management Area in the south-western corner of the province is a wetland of international importance. It is the largest protected area in Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe flora and fauna of much of Western Province resemble those of northern Australia. Flora includes eucalyptus, melaleuca, acacia, and banksias. Fauna includes wallabies, bandicoots, goannas, coastal taipans, and mound-building termites.\n\nThe drier, southern parts of the province have eucalyptus and melaleuca savannas (the Trans-Fly savanna and grasslands) that support large populations of birds, wallabies, and introduced deer, with dense rainforests being located to the north. The dry season is from July–November, while the wet season is from December–June. Sago cultivation dominates the wetter north, while yam cultivation dominates the drier south.\n\nThere were 201,351 inhabitants in Western Province in the 2011 census, residing in 31,322 households. Of these, 79,349 people were recorded in Middle Fly District, 62,850 in North Fly District and 59,152 in South Fly District. The average household size across the province was 6.4.\n\nThe major economic activity in the province is constituted by the Ok Tedi Mine, initially established by BHP and the subject of considerable litigation by traditional landowners both in respect of environmental degradation and disputes over royalties. It is currently operated by Ok Tedi Mining Limited (OTML).\n\nThere are three districts in the province. Each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1977 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857924", "title": "Carriage clock", "text": "Carriage clock\n\nA carriage clock is a small, spring-driven clock, designed for travelling, developed in the early 19th century in France, where they were also known as \"Officers' Clocks\". The first carriage clock was invented by Abraham-Louis Breguet for the Emperor Napoleon in 1812. The case, usually plain or gilt-brass, is rectangular with a carrying handle and often set with glass or more rarely enamel or porcelain panels. A feature of carriage clocks is the \"platform escapement\", sometimes visible through a glazed aperture on the top of the case. Carriage clocks use a balance and balance spring for timekeeping and replaced the larger pendulum bracket clock. \nThe factory of Armand Couaillet, in Saint-Nicolas d'Aliermont (France) made thousands of carriage clocks between 1880 and 1920. \n\nA carriage clock has in the past been a traditional gift from employers to retiring or long-serving staff. However, in modern times, with changing work patterns and changing desires, this is much less the case.\n"}
{"id": "1857936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857936", "title": "Harajuku Girls", "text": "Harajuku Girls\n\nThe Harajuku Girls are four Japanese and Japanese-American backup dancers featured in stage shows and music videos for Gwen Stefani during her solo pop/dance-record career. The women also act as an entourage at Stefani's public appearances.\n\nThe Harajuku Girls are Maya Chino (\"Love\"), Jennifer Kita (\"Angel\"), Rino Nakasone (\"Music\") and Mayuko Kitayama (\"Baby\"). The name of the group is a reference to Harajuku, a neighborhood of Tokyo. The stage names of the women are derived from Stefani's \"Love. Angel. Music. Baby.\", which was the name of her first album as well as her clothing brand.\n\nIn 2014, Stefani announced she would be producing an animated series that was based on the characters Love, Angel, Music, Baby, and G, a character who was first introduced in the Harajuku Lovers perfume line. The series \"Kuu Kuu Harajuku\" follows the girls, known together as HJ5, as they fight evil and try to pursue their music.\n\nThe Harajuku Girls were originally hired in 2004 as backup dancers for Gwen Stefani's \"Love. Angel. Music. Baby.\" album. The \"Harajuku Girls\" continued to appear alongside Stefani, and were featured in the music videos for \"What You Waiting For?\", \"Rich Girl\", \"Hollaback Girl\", \"Luxurious\", \"Crash\", \"Wind It Up\", \"The Sweet Escape\", and \"Now That You Got It\". Gwen appeared on \"Friday Night with Jonathan Ross\", and introduced the dancers as her \"imaginary friends\".\n\nThree of the dancers would later appear in No Doubt's 2012 video \"Settle Down\".\n\nMaya Chino (stage name \"Love\") grew up in Tokyo. She started out doing ballet when she was three years old and also tap danced. Before dancing with Gwen Stefani, she was a backup dancer for South Korean singer BoA. She later moved to Los Angeles, California, and teaches hip hop lessons to children at an academy called HORIPRO Music Academy. She is also one of the Head Instructor/Choreographers for HMA's HIPHOP Team \"RIZE\".\n\nJennifer Kita (stage name \"Angel/Lil Angel\"), is a Japanese-American from Torrance, California. After graduating from South High School, Jennifer moved to San Diego and studied hip-hop at Mesa College. She later joined the dance troupe Culture Shock San Diego, where she performed for two years, then joined the hip hop entertainment company Urban FX, where she danced for a year.\n\nJenny’s big break came when she appeared in Britney Spears’ Pepsi ad campaign ‘The Joy of Pepsi’ in 2001 which was broadcast on television during commercial break at the Academy Awards. \n\nAfter her stint with Gwen Stefani, Jenny went on to tour with Madonna on the Stick & Sweet Tour from 2008-2009 and performed with various artists such as Snoop Dogg, Ricky Martin, Psy and Shakira. \n\nRino Nakasone (stage name \"Music\"), born on June 11, 1979, grew up in Okinawa. She became interested in dance after watching music videos by Michael Jackson and Janet Jackson and mimicking their moves. At the age of nineteen she went to Los Angeles to study dance. She later taught dance at a performing arts centers, and joined an all-female dance group \"Beat Freaks\", which competed and was runner-up in \"America's Best Dance Crew\". She most recently appeared in the new dance multimedia production \"Siren Assassins\" as Queen Jade. She was formerly married to Lee-J Razalan, the manager of Beat Freaks and a fellow dancer. She is the choreographer for famous Korean boy band Shinee with their debut song, \"Noona is so Pretty/Replay\" and various others including \"Love Like Oxygen\", \"Juliette\", \"Lucifer\", and \"Hello\" as well as choreographing Girls' Generation's \"Genie\", \"Oh!\" and \"Hoot\", Super Junior's \"No Other\", f(x)'s \"Chu~♥\", \"NU ABO\", \"Gangsta Boy\" and \"Hot Summer\", and BoA's \"Dangerous\" and \"Copy & Paste\".\n\nMayuko Kitayama (stage name \"Baby\"), born on February 14, 1984, grew up in Osaka. She eventually moved to New York, where she practiced in several dancing studios, after dancing in Japan for several years. During 2004, she appeared as one of the back-up dancers for Britney Spears's Onyx Hotel Tour.\n\nAsian-American entertainer and comedian Margaret Cho criticized Stefani and the group for reinforcing negative ethnic stereotypes of Asian women. Nakasone responded that Stefani was inspired by Japanese fashion culture and that she felt honored to have been in the group. In an interview in the January/February 2006 edition of \"Blender\" magazine, Cho called Stefani's Harajuku Girls a minstrel show that reinforces ethnic stereotypes of Asian women.\n\nWriter Mihi Ahn of Salon.com said of Stefani's Harajuku Girls: \"Stefani has taken the idea of Japanese street fashion and turned these women into modern-day geisha\".\n"}
{"id": "1857940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857940", "title": "John Baxter (explorer)", "text": "John Baxter (explorer)\n\nJohn Baxter (1799–29 April 1841) was an Irish convict who became an Australian pioneer, overlander, explorer, and offsider of explorer Edward John Eyre.\n\nBaxter was born in 1799 at Comber, County Down, Ireland, a son of mariner James Baxter. Raised in a Protestant family, the powerfully built young man, who was educated to read and write, became a farm bailiff at Down.\n\nHe was convicted for having received a stolen brooch in July 1826, and was sentenced to seven years’ penal transportation, to be served in New South Wales. He arrived in Sydney aboard the .\n\nHe was promptly assigned as a farm labourer for free settlers, initially for William Bell in the Hunter Valley, and then other settlers. Through good conduct he obtained his ticket of leave in 1831 while working at Patrick’s Plains on the Hunter River. On 19 August 1833 he was granted his Certificate of Freedom.\n\nThat same month the 33-year-old ruddy-faced Baxter was one of six freed ex-convicts assigned to work (with wages and keep) for 18-year-old novice settler Edward John Eyre at his newly established Hunter River property. Baxter was reputedly married, but his wife died in 1837. At this period Eyre described Baxter as \"a good cooper and rough carpenter, and ... a most useful, well-behaved man\", despite his roughness and occasional alcohol binges.\n\nFor the next eight years Baxter was to accompany Eyre through nearly every one of his pastoralist, livestock overlanding, and exploration endeavours, most usually as his faithful overseer and best friend, but sometimes as a partner. For example, Baxter brought 60 head of his own cattle in the herd that he and Eyre overlanded to Adelaide, arriving July 1838. In 1840 Baxter and Eyre were equal minority shareholders in the special survey that led to settlement of the Clare Valley, holding adjacent sections of land.\n\nAlthough Baxter lacked Eyre's higher education and sophistication, it could be said that wherever Eyre explored, so also did Baxter. In threatening situations, particularly with potentially hostile Aboriginals, the older and well-built Baxter often provided the strong physical presence which the tall but slightly-built Eyre lacked. In addition, Baxter sometimes scouted and explored districts that Eyre didn't actually visit but nevertheless reported on, he being expedition leader.\n\nDuring their 1839 exploration of Eyre Peninsula, Baxter found a water source near a range of hills he had visited, which Eyre then named Baxter's Range. The range, which is sited west of Port Augusta, is today named Baxter Range, with parts being called Corunna Hills. The Baxter Detention Centre which operated near here 2002-07 therefore had the irony of being named after a former convict.\n\nIn 1841 Eyre led the first expedition to cross the Nullarbor Plain, east to west, with Baxter as his overseer. The small party reached Eucla, at the head of the Bight, on 11 March 1841. Heading further west, the harsh terrain became even more arid.\n\nOn the night of 29 April 1841, when the exploration party was low on supplies and in desperate need of water, near the coast south of present-day Caiguna in Nuytsland National Park, Baxter was murdered by Yarry and Joey, two of the Indigenous Australians with the group, who took guns and supplies, leaving only Eyre and the Aboriginal Wylie to complete the journey. Eyre had been checking their horses at 10.30pm when Baxter, who had been asleep in his swag, was shot in the chest by a rifle when he aroused and attempted to foil the deserters and their plot.\n\nThe expedition was at or past the point of no return and morale was low. Eyre and Wylie were fortunate to survive the journey to Albany.\n\nEyre and Wylie were unable to dig a grave for Baxter because of sheet rock in that locality. His body was left wrapped in a blanket. In the late 1920s the Western Australian Historical Society organised an expedition to locate Baxter's remains. His scattered bones were discovered approximately 3 km from the coastal cliffs. Those cliffs, officially named Baxter Cliffs, are a section of the Bunda cliffs. Baxter's memorial is a concrete pillar erected in 1930 with a brass plaque reading \"John Baxter, (explorer), The Companion Of, John Edward Eyre, Was Killed Here By Natives, April 29th 1841\".\n\nThe memorial can be accessed by 4-wheel-drive from Caiguna road house. It is approximately 35 km to Baxter's memorial and a further 5 km to Baxter's Lookout (cliffs). The landscape is flat and vegetation stunted. An overnight stay at Baxter's Lookout gives a feel for the expedition's predicament.\n"}
{"id": "1857941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857941", "title": "Strikebreaker", "text": "Strikebreaker\n\nA strikebreaker (sometimes derogatorily called a scab, blackleg, or knobstick) is a person who works despite an ongoing strike. Strikebreakers are usually individuals who were not employed by the company prior to the trade union dispute, but rather hired after or during the strike to keep the organization running. \"Strikebreakers\" may also refer to workers (union members or not) who cross picket lines to work.\n\nThe use of strikebreakers is a worldwide phenomenon; however, many countries have passed laws outlawing their use, as they undermine the collective bargaining process. Strikebreakers are used far more frequently in the United States than in any other industrialized country.\n\nThe right to strike is not expressly mentioned in any convention of the International Labour Organization (ILO); however, the ILO's Freedom of Association Committee established principles on the right to strike through ongoing rulings. Among human rights treaties, only the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights contains a clause protecting the right to strike. However, like the Social Charter of 1961, the Covenant permits each signatory country to abridge the right to strike.\n\nThe ILO Committee on Freedom of Association and other ILO bodies have, however, interpreted all core ILO conventions as protecting the right to strike as an essential element of the freedom of association. For example, the ILO has ruled that \"the right to strike is an intrinsic corollary of the right of association protected by Convention No. 87.\"\n\nThe ILO has also concluded striker replacement, while not in contravention of ILO agreements, carries with it significant risks for abuse and places trade union freedoms \"in grave jeopardy.\"\n\nThe European Social Charter of 1961 was the first international agreement to expressly protect the right to strike. However, the European Union's Community Charter of the Fundamental Social Rights of Workers permits EU member states to regulate the right to strike.\n\n\nIn most European countries, strikebreakers are rarely used. Consequently, they are rarely if ever mentioned in most European national labor laws. As mentioned above, it is left to the European Union member states to determine their own policies.\n\n\n\nStrikebreaking is also known as \"black-legging\" or \"blacklegging\". American lexicographer Stephanie Smith suggests that the word has to do with bootblacking or shoe polish, for an early occurrence of the word was in conjunction with an 1803 American bootmaker's strike. But British industrial relations expert J.G. Riddall notes that it may have a racist connotation, as it was used in this way in 1859 in the United Kingdom: \"If you dare work we shall consider you as blacks...\" Lexicographer Geoffrey Hughes, however, notes that \"blackleg\" and \"scab\" are both references to disease, as in the blackleg infectious bacterial disease of sheep and cattle caused by \"Clostridium chauvoei\". He dates the first use of the term \"blackleg\" in reference to strikebreaking to the United Kingdom in 1859. The use of the term blackleg for a strikebreaker was, however, previously recorded in 1832 during the trial of special constable George Weddell for killing and slaying Cuthbert Skipsey, a striking pitman, near Chirton, Newcastle-upon-Tyne. Hughes observes that the term was once generally used to indicate a scoundrel, a villain, or a disreputable person. However, the Northumbrian folk song \"Blackleg Miner\" is believed to originate from the 1844 strike, which would predate Hughes's reference. David John Douglass claims that the term \"blackleg\" has its origins in coal mining, as strikebreakers would often neglect to wash their legs, which would give away that they had been working whilst others had been on strike.\n\nHughes notes that the use of the term \"scab\" can be traced back to the Elizabethan era in England, and is much more clearly rooted in the concept of disease (e.g., a diseased person) and a sickened appearance. The word is occasionally still used as a general insult in Britain; for example, during a mock funeral for Margaret Thatcher in 2013 in Goldthorpe, the word \"scab\" was spelled out in flowers as part of the display. A traditional English proverb, which advises against gossip, is \"He that is a blab is a scab\".\n\nJohn McIlroy has suggested that there is a distinction between a \"blackleg\" and a \"scab\". He defines a \"scab\" as an outsider who is recruited to replace a striking worker, whereas a \"blackleg\" is one already employed who goes against a democratic decision of their colleagues to strike, and instead continues to work. The fact that McIlroy specified that this should be a \"democratic\" decision has led the historian David Amos to question whether the Nottinghamshire miners in 1984–85 were true blacklegs, given the lack of a democratic vote on the strike.\n\nStrikebreakers are also known as \"knobsticks\". The term appears derived from the word \"knob\", in the sense of something that sticks out, and from the card-playing term \"nob\", as someone who cheats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857944", "title": "Canada Book Day", "text": "Canada Book Day\n\nCanada Book Day is a yearly event celebrated in Canada on April 23 to promote reading and books during Canada Book Week. Canada Book Week takes place on the week of April 23.\n\nCanada Book Day is celebrated on the same day as World Book and Copyright Day, a yearly event organized by UNESCO to promote reading, publishing and the protection of intellectual property through copyright. The date was chosen by UNESCO to honour three writers of fiction, non-fiction and poetryMiguel Cervantes, William Shakespeare and Inca Garcilaso de la Vega who each died on April 23, 1616.\n\nCanada Book Day was organized by the Writers' Trust of Canada, a national organization whose mandate is to represent writers and support Canadian English-language literature. The Trust no longer organizes this event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857945", "title": "George Spalatin", "text": "George Spalatin\n\nGeorg(e) Spalatin was the pseudonym taken by Georg Burkhardt (17 January 1484 – 16 January 1545), was a German humanist, theologian, reformer, secretary of the Saxon Elector Frederick the Wise, as well as an important figure in the history of the Reformation.\n\nBurkhardt was born at Spalt (from which he took the Latinized name \"Spalatinus\"), near Nuremberg, where his father was a tanner. He went to Nuremberg for his education when he was thirteen years of age, and soon afterwards to the University of Erfurt, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1499. There he attracted the notice of Nikolaus Marschalk, the most influential professor, who made Spalatin his amanuensis and took him to the new University of Wittenberg in 1502. Here he lived in quarters on Schlossplatz just east of Schlosskirche, Wittenberg.\n\nIn 1505 Spalatin returned to Erfurt to study jurisprudence. He was recommended to Conrad Mutianus, and was welcomed by the little band of German humanists of whom Mutianus was chief. His friend acquired a post for him as teacher of novices in the monastery at Georgenthal, and in 1508 he was ordained priest by Bishop Johann von Laasphe, who had ordained Martin Luther. In 1509 Mutianus recommended him to Frederick III the Wise, the Elector of Saxony, who employed him to act as tutor to his nephew, the future elector, John Frederick.\n\nSpalatin speedily gained the confidence of the elector, who sent him to Wittenberg in 1511 to act as tutor to his nephews, and procured for him a canon's stall in Altenburg. In 1512 the elector made him his librarian. He was promoted to be court chaplain and secretary, and took charge of all the elector's private and public correspondence. His solid scholarship, and especially his unusual mastery of Greek, made him indispensable to the Saxon court.\n\nSpalatin had never cared for theology, and, although a priest and a preacher, had been a humanist. How he first became acquainted with Luther is impossible to say — probably at Wittenberg — but the reformer from the first exercised a great power over him, and became his chief counsellor in all moral and religious matters. His letters to Luther have been lost, but Luther's answers remain, and are extremely interesting. There is scarcely any fact in the opening history of the Reformation which is not connected in some way with Spalatin's name. He read Luther's writings to the elector, and translated for his benefit those in Latin into German.\n\nSpalatin accompanied Frederick to the Diet of Augsburg in 1518, and shared in the negotiations with the papal legates, Thomas Cajetan and Karl von Miltitz. He was with the elector when Charles V was chosen emperor and when he was crowned. He was with his master at the Diet of Worms. In short, he stood beside Frederick as his confidential adviser in all the troubled diplomacy of the earlier years of the Reformation. Spalatin would have dissuaded Luther again and again from publishing books or engaging in overt acts against the papacy, but when the thing was done none was so ready to translate the book or to justify the act.\n\nOn the death of Frederick the Wise in 1525, Spalatin no longer lived at the Saxon court. But he attended the imperial diets, and was the constant and valued adviser of the electors, John and John Frederick. He went into residence as canon at Altenburg, and incited the chapter to institute reforms, somewhat unsuccessfully. He married in the same year.\n\nDuring the later portion of his life, from 1526 onwards, Spalatin was chiefly engaged in the visitation of churches and schools in the Electorate of Saxony, reporting on the confiscation and application of ecclesiastical revenues, and he was asked to undertake the same work for Albertine Saxony. He was also permanent visitor of Wittenberg University. Shortly before his death he fell into a state of profound melancholy, and died at Altenburg. He was buried in the vault of the St. Bartholomew church.\n\nSpalatin left behind him a large number of literary remains, both published and unpublished. His original writings are almost all historical. Perhaps the most important of them are:\n\nA list of them may be found in Adolf Seelheim's \"Georg Spalatin als sächsischer Historiograph\" (1876).\n\nThere is no comprehensive biography of Spalatin, as his letters have yet to be collected and edited.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857952", "title": "Dutch Leonard (right-handed pitcher)", "text": "Dutch Leonard (right-handed pitcher)\n\nEmil John \"Dutch\" Leonard (March 25, 1909 – April 17, 1983) was an American professional baseball player. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) as a right-handed knuckleball pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers (1933–36), Washington Senators (1938–46), Philadelphia Phillies (1947–48), and Chicago Cubs (1949–53). He was born in Auburn, Illinois.\n\nIn a 20-season career, Leonard posted a 191–181 win–loss record with 1170 strikeouts and a 3.25 earned run average in innings pitched. He was a six-time All-Star selection, and became the pitching coach of the Cubs immediately after his playing career ended (1954–56).\n\nOn July 4, 1939, Leonard pitched a complete game and the Senators defeated the New York Yankees in the first game of a doubleheader at Yankee Stadium. At the conclusion of the first game, Lou Gehrig delivered his famous \"luckiest man on the face of the earth\" speech.\n\nDuring the 1945 season, Leonard was part of what was possibly the only four-man rotation in baseball history to have been all knuckleball pitchers. \nReportedly, after facing Leonard, Jackie Robinson once said: \"I am glad of one thing, and that is I don't have to hit against Dutch Leonard every day. Man, what a knuckleball that fellow has. It comes up, makes a face at you, then runs away.\"\n\nIn a biographical movie about Robinson called \"42\", former MLB pitcher C. J. Nitkowski plays the role of Leonard pitching against Robinson.\n\nLeonard's nickname 'Dutch' was also taken in his honor by crime novelist Elmore Leonard, and was tattooed as such during his time in the SeaBees.\n\nAlthough his nickname suggests otherwise, Leonard was of Belgian descent. Leonard died in Springfield, Illinois at age of 74.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857955", "title": "The Thirteen Chairs", "text": "The Thirteen Chairs\n\nThe Thirteen Chairs (12 + 1 – original title and Italian release title) is a 1969 comedy film directed by Nicolas Gessner and Luciano Lucignani and starring Sharon Tate, Vittorio Gassman, Orson Welles, Vittorio De Sica, and Tim Brooke-Taylor. It was based on the 1928 satirical novel \"The Twelve Chairs\" by Soviet authors Ilf and Petrov, which has been adapted many times (including a 1970 version directed by Mel Brooks).\n\nMario Beretti (Vittorio Gassman) is a young Italian-American barber. He runs a barber shop located near a construction site that boasts few customers. His life reaches a turning point when he is notified of the death of his aunt living in England, who named him her sole heir.\n\nMario rushes to England and learns that his inheritance consists of not much; only thirteen antique chairs that have a certain value. He sells them in order to cover his transportation costs, but soon learns from his aunt Laura's last message that inside one of the chairs is a fortune in jewels. He tries to buy back the chairs, but is unsuccessful in doing so. With the help of lovely American antiques dealer Pat (Sharon Tate), working in the antiques shop in front of Aunt Laura's house, where he sold the chairs, the two then set out on a bizarre quest to track down the chairs that takes them from London to Paris and to Rome. Along the way, they meet a bunch of equally bizarre characters, including the driver of a furniture moving van named Albert (Terry-Thomas); a prostitute named Judy (Mylène Demongeot); Maurice (Orson Welles), the leader of a traveling theater company that stages a poor version of \"Strange Case of Dr Jekyll and Mr Hyde\"; the Italian entrepreneur Carlo Di Seta (Vittorio De Sica); and his vivacious daughter Stefanella (Ottavia Piccolo).\n\nThe bizarre chase ends in Rome, where the chair containing the jewels finds its way into a truck and is collected by nuns who auction it off to charity. With nothing much left to do as a result of the failure of his quest, Mario travels back to New York City by ship as Pat sees him off and waves goodbye to him.\n\nThe film ends with Mario returning to New York City and to his barber shop. His friends over at the other (and more lavish) shop join him, as do two construction workers and his last customer Randomhouse (Lionel Jeffries). It is there that Mario makes a strange discovery: shortly before his departure for Europe, he invented a way to make hair regrow miraculously. He then laughs ecstatically over his discovery.\n\n\n\"The Thirteen Chairs\" was filmed from February–May 1969. Orson Welles and Tim Brooke-Taylor had their scenes filmed during a break from shooting Welles' comedic film \"One Man Band\". Brooke-Taylor recalled,\n\nBecause the script for Sharon Tate's scenes called for several semi-nude scenes, the director arranged to film those scenes first. As filming (and her pregnancy) progressed, the director obscured Tate's stomach with large purses and scarves. This is most apparent in the scene following her ride in the furniture mover's van.\n\n\"The Thirteen Chairs\" was Sharon Tate's final film, with many people saying that she had a knack for comedy and were excited for her next film contract (equal to over $1,000,000 in today’s money).\n\nThe film was released through rental only by Force Video in 1986 under the \"Thirteen Chairs\" name, and again a year later by Continental Video, under the original \"12 + 1\" name. On 12 March 2008 the film was released on DVD in Italy by 01 Distribution. This version is in Italian, lacks English subtitles, and doesn't include an English audio track.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857957", "title": "Banjo clock", "text": "Banjo clock\n\nThe banjo clock, or banjo timepiece, is an American wall clock with a banjo-shaped case. It was invented by Simon Willard, originally of Grafton, Massachusetts, later of Roxbury, Massachusetts, and patented in 1802. The banjo clock normally lacks a striking mechanism and indicates time only by its hands and dial, for which reason some horologists may insist upon calling it a timepiece rather than a true clock. In popular usage though, no such distinction is made.\n\nThe banjo style of wooden case usually features a round opening for a painted dial, a long-waisted throat, and a rectangular pendulum box with hinged door. Both the throat and door are ornamented with reverse-painted (\"verre églomisé\") glass panels, and the case is usually flanked by curved and pierced brass frets. A finial mounted atop the case usually takes the form of a cast-brass eagle or a turned, giltwood acorn. \n\nOnly 4,000 authentic Simon Willard banjo clocks were made. The style was widely copied by other members of the Willard family of clockmakers and many others clockmakers, both craftsmen and industrial manufacturers. Variants of the banjo-style clock made by others include examples with square or diamond-shaped dials, and the extremely opulent, heavily gilt \"girandole\" style.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857964", "title": "Chalybeate, Kentucky", "text": "Chalybeate, Kentucky\n\nChalybeate, also known as Chalybeate Springs, is an unincorporated community in Edmonson County, Kentucky, United States, near the Warren County line.\n\nAt the turn of the 20th century, the location of the springs, which contained iron salts known as chalybeate, long thought to be health-restoring, was a popular resort. All that remained of the resort by 2010 was an old spring house for the resort, which was initially closed during the Second World War. A Kentucky Historical Marker with information about that resort was placed at the junction of KY 101 and KY 3611 on June 11, 2016.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857968", "title": "Siobhán Donaghy", "text": "Siobhán Donaghy\n\nSiobhán Emma Donaghy (born 14 June 1984) is an English singer-songwriter. She is a founding member of the girl group Sugababes. Donaghy left the Sugababes in 2001 and released her debut solo album, \"Revolution in Me\", on 23 September 2003, which contained three single releases. Her second studio album, \"Ghosts\", was released on 25 June 2007. Donaghy appeared in a remixed version of the hit stage show \"Rent\" (titled \"Rent Remixed\") for its 2007–2008 run, playing the role of Mimi alongside Denise van Outen.\n\nOn 20 July 2012, Donaghy and her former Sugababes colleagues, Buena and Buchanan, confirmed their reunion. The original trio were not able to release music under the name \"Sugababes\" as it was still owned by the management company. They instead released music under the new name, Mutya Keisha Siobhan until they secured the legal rights to the Sugababes name again in 2019.\n\nDonaghy was born on 14 June 1984 in London, England. She is of Irish descent and has two sisters called Beibhinn and Róisín, who works as her make-up artist. She attended The Douay Martyrs School in Ickenham, in the London Borough of Hillingdon. She was discovered by former All Saints manager Ron Tom, who went on to manage Sugababes.\n\nThe group was created when Donaghy and Mutya Buena hooked up with Buena's best friend Keisha Buchanan while working together in a studio. Manager Ron Tom decided they were to be a trio and came up with the name \"the Sugababies\". Within a year they were offered a record contract by London Records and started calling themselves the Sugababes.\n\nTheir debut single, \"Overload\", was a top ten hit in the UK and was nominated for a BRIT Award for \"Best Single\". It was a top five hit in Germany and New Zealand. The group co-wrote most of the tracks on \"One Touch\", with the help of All Saints producer Cameron McVey. \"One Touch\" produced three more top forty singles in the UK: \"New Year\", \"Run for Cover\" and \"Soul Sound\".\n\nAccording to Donaghy, she left the group because she never got along with Keisha Buchanan, whom she described as a bully. Donaghy became depressed (eventually being diagnosed with clinical depression) and could no longer be a part of the Sugababes. In an interview with \"thelondonpaper\", Donaghy said: \"It's difficult to leave a band and then make sort of a solo career. I left for a very good reason and I've never for a second wanted to go back there.\" Despite this, Donaghy maintained contact with Buena, saying she was always pleased to see her.\n\nIn March 2010, it was reported that Donaghy's former colleague, Mutya Buena, was pursuing legal rights to the Sugababes name. Buena was doing it by herself and only listed Donaghy and Buchanan's names on the documentation to register the Sugababes' name with the EU's trademark office OHIM.\n\nDonaghy started writing music with the help of former producer Cameron McVey to help overcome her depression, and began performing under the alias of \"Shanghai Nobody\", an anagram of \"Siobhán Donaghy\". In March 2003, Donaghy released the 7-inch vinyl single \"Nothing but Song\" under this title as she did not want to be known as \"the girl who left the Sugababes\". For the release of her first commercial single in June 2003, \"Overrated\" (co-written with McVey and Paul Simm), Donaghy reverted to her given name. \"Overrated\" peaked at No. 19 in the UK. It was followed by the single \"Twist of Fate\", which was released in September 2003 and charted at No. 52.\n\nDonaghy's debut album \"Revolution in Me\" was released by London Records in September 2003, and entered the UK Albums Chart at No. 117. Working with her on the album were father-son producers and writers Cameron McVey and Marlon Roudette from Mattafix. Each of the twelve tracks on the album were co-written by Donaghy with McVey, Silvio Pacini, Preetesh Hirji, Matt Kent and others.\n\nIn 2005, Donaghy appeared as a backing vocalist on the Mattafix album \"Signs of a Struggle\" and on the Morcheeba album \"The Antidote\".\n\nDonaghy parted with London Records in a mutual decision with the company. She recorded a second album independently which was picked up by Parlophone, part of the EMI group, which also bought the rights to \"Revolution in Me\". The album's title track, \"Ghosts\", was released in February 2007 as a 12-inch promotional two-track single with the song \"Don't Give It Up\". The latter song was given a wider release in April 2007 and peaked at No. 45 in the UK. The second single, \"So You Say\", was released in June 2007 and peaked at No. 76. A remix of \"Don't Give It Up\" by Jerry Bouthier is featured on the Kitsuné release \"BoomBox\", released in November 2007.\n\nThe album, \"Ghosts\", was also released in June 2007 and peaked at No. 92. Donaghy had said of the release that she wanted commercial success only so that she could continue to make music. She told The London Paper: \"I make left field pop music, and it's a difficult genre to be in because it's not straight pop, it's not alternative, and it's quite hard to market. You have to push it and work it.\" The album was recorded in a small studio near Barneville-Carteret, France with producer James Sanger; other producers/songwriters include Jony Rockstar, Carl McIntosh (\"There's a Place\"), Ben Ranyard (\"12 Bar Acid Blues\"), Charles Lucy of Lucy Tuning (\"Sometimes\") and Marius De Vries.\n\nDonaghy appeared as the character of Mimi, a lead role, in the William Baker-directed production of \"RENT\" in London's West End at the Duke of York's Theatre, which opened in October 2007 and ran until February 2008. She said she was \"overwhelmed that she got the part and was looking forward to the challenge\". In August 2007 she flew to New York to watch \"RENT\" on Broadway to get inspiration for her interpretation of her part. This was Donaghy's West End debut. From 2006 to 2011 she worked as a model booker in London.\n\nIn a January 2009 interview with the music site We7, Donaghy indicated that there would be no further solo albums released for the time being. \"At this point in time I have no further plans to undertake another record of my own. Ultimately, the true nature of the business side of the music industry is enough to keep me away. Nonetheless, if I find myself in the future bursting with ideas and experiences I feel the need to share through music, I will be back,\" Donaghy stated.\n\nIn June 2009, Donaghy was featured on the Square1 single \"Styfling\" produced by Silvio Pacini. Later in the year, she said in an interview with fashion site ponystep.com that she feels she had \"had the break\" she wanted from the industry and was currently working on new music but was unsure when it would be finished.\n\nIn October 2011, several news outlets reported that the original line-up of the Sugababes would reform. In January 2012, further circulations that the group would reunite were sparked, after both Buena and Buchanan tweeted that they were in the studio with \"two other females\" and British rapper Professor Green. However, Buena later denied this on Twitter, saying: \"No track [with] keisha or professor G he was around tha studio. im jus workin on my stuff @ tha moment. (sic)\" Despite this, Scottish singer-songwriter Emeli Sandé confirmed to MTV UK that she had written new songs for Buena, Buchanan and Donaghy, saying: \"Yes, that is true. I’ve written for the original line-up of the Sugababes, which I’m very happy about because I just loved them when they first came out. I loved their sound, it was so cool. It was very different, so I’m happy to kind of be involved in what started the whole Sugababes journey. It sounds amazing.\" In April 2012, it was reported that the line-up had signed a £1 million record real with Polydor Records. In June 2012, Donaghy confirmed on Twitter that new music would be released, saying: \"the soonest it'll be is in 2 weeks. The latest is 10 weeks.\"\n\nIn July 2012, it was officially confirmed that the group had reformed under the name Mutya Keisha Siobhan and were writing songs for a new album under Polydor. The group attended the 2012 Summer Olympics opening ceremony on 27 July 2012 and posted pictures on their official Instagram page, marked Buena, Buchanan and Donaghy's first public appearance together in eleven years. On 6 August the group confirmed they had written two songs with Shaznay Lewis, former member of All Saints. The next day, Siobhan Donaghy tweeted \"With the girls in the studio. I think the album is finished!!!\" before adding \"Whoop!\" In an interview with Popjustice in August 2012, Donaghy stated that she had no interest in releasing any more solo material, saying that she felt her 2007 album Ghosts was her best work and didn't see why she needed to release any more material and that she was completely focused on MKS. An album was confirmed by Donaghy in 2016 to be released in early 2017 however this never materialised for unknown reasons and the group have not made any announcements or stated if they have remained together since.\n\nIn February 2019, Mutya Buena confirmed that a leak of the demos resulted in the album being postponed. Donaghy has a writing credit on the Bananarama song \"Love in Stereo\" along with Keisha Buchanan, a song that was originally written for MKS's album. In August 2019, Donaghy, Buena and Buchanan reunited for a cover of Sweet Female Attitude's \"Flowers\", produced by DJ Spoony, as part of his album \"Garage Classical\". The trio is credited as Sugababes, making it the first time since 2001 that Donaghy performs under the name.\n\n\nDonaghy married long-term partner Chris McCoy, in a private ceremony, on 17 January 2013 which MKS bandmates Mutya Buena and Keisha Buchanan attended. On 10 April 2017, Donaghy confirmed on her official Instagram post that she was expecting her first child. On 13 August 2017, she gave birth to a son, Ford Charles McCoy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1857969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857969", "title": "Dorchester Railroad", "text": "Dorchester Railroad\n\nThe Dorchester Railroad and Dorchester Extension Railroad was a horse car line in Boston, Massachusetts in the late 19th century, running from downtown south to Milton, mostly via Dorchester Avenue (the old Dorchester Turnpike). For several years, it was operated by Gore, Rose and Company, owned by David Gore and George Rose, because the original company could not afford to run it.\n\nThe Dorchester Avenue Railroad was chartered April 29, 1854, opened in spring 1857, and bought by the Dorchester Railroad (chartered April 29, 1855) in January 1858. The Dorchester Extension Railroad was chartered February 18, 1855. Both were leased to Gore, Rose and Company, which operated the line from June 1, 1858 to 1862.\n\nBoth companies were purchased by the Metropolitan Railroad on October 1, 1863.\n\nAn 1871 map shows the downtown end continuing from Dorchester Avenue along Federal Street to Dewey Square, and then along Broad Street (now partly Atlantic Avenue) to a terminus at State Street, with no connections to any other lines.\n\nThe railroad later became a surface trolley line of the West End Street Railway and then the Boston Elevated Railway. It no longer carries a single service (which would now be bus) because the Red Line subway parallels Dorchester Avenue for its entire length.\n\nThe railroad was one of the first street railways in Boston, coming soon after the Cambridge Railroad (opened March 1856).\n\n"}
{"id": "1857977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857977", "title": "Western Highlands Province", "text": "Western Highlands Province\n\nWestern Highlands is a province of Papua New Guinea. The provincial capital is Mount Hagen. The province covers an area of 4,299 km², and there are 362,850 inhabitants (2011 census), making the Western Highlands the most densely populated province (apart from the National Capital District). Tea and coffee are grown in the Western Highlands.\n\nIn July 2009, Parliament passed legislation to create two new provinces by 2012. One of these was to be created by removing Jimi District, North Waghi District, and the South Waghi part of Anglimp-South Waghi District from the Western Highlands Province to form the new Jiwaka Province. \"Jiwaka\" is a portmanteau combining the first two letters each of Jimi, Waghi and Kambia.\n\nJiwaka Province officially came into being on 17 May 2012.\n\nThe Western Highlands economy is primarily based on coffee. Coffee is grown on plantations and small-holder blocks. They are picked, dried and processed for export. In addition, tea is also a major crop grown and processed, but in plantations by W. R. Carpenter & Co Ltd for local consumption and export. Apart from these, vegetables are grown for the domestic market, and sold mainly to markets Lae and Port Moresby. \n\nSince the separation of Jiwaka there are now four districts in the province. Each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1978 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n"}
{"id": "1857978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857978", "title": "Lantern clock", "text": "Lantern clock\n\nA lantern clock is a type of antique weight-driven wall clock, shaped like a lantern. They were the first type of clock widely used in private homes. They probably originated before 1500 but only became common after 1600; in Britain around 1620. They became obsolete in the 19th century.\n\nThere are two theories of the origin of the name \"lantern clock\". One is that it refers to brass, the main metal of which English lantern clocks are made. Clocks were first made on the continent, at first of iron with iron wheels, and then later with brass wheels. Later still, in France, Belgium and The Netherlands, clocks began to be made from brass. Brass alloys were then called latten, and it seems likely that brass clocks would have been called \"latten clocks\" (or \"latten horloge\" or \"latten uhr\" in the native languages) to distinguish them from iron clocks, and that \"lantern\" could be an English interpretation or corruption of latten. The other is that the name derived from the shape; the clock resembles a rectangular lantern of that period, and like a lantern was hung on the wall.\n\nIn inventories of deceased clockmakers, lantern clocks are usually referred to as \"house clocks\", \"chamber clocks\" or simply \"clocks\", since in 17th century England they were almost the only type of domestic clocks that existed. It was only after a century had passed, when other types of domestic clocks began to be used in British houses, that more descriptive names for it appeared. Other names used for lantern clocks are \"bedpost\", \"birdcage\" or \"Cromwellian\" clocks. \"Sheep's head clock\" was a nickname term for a type of lantern clock that had an extremely large chapter ring covering almost the entire front.\n\nThe English lantern clock is closely related to lantern clocks that can be found on the European continent. A group of craftsmen from the Low Countries and France, of which some were clockmakers, had established themselves in London at the end of the 16th century. At the same time the middle classes in towns and cities of England began to prosper and the need arose for domestic clocks. Until that time clocks in English houses were confined to the nobility; ordinary people were dependent on sundials, or the tower clocks of local churches.\n\nIt is generally accepted that the first lantern clocks in England were made by Frauncoy Nowe and Nicholas Vallin, two Huguenots who had fled from the Low Countries.\n\nLantern clocks were made almost entirely of brass, whereas most earlier clocks had been constructed from iron and wood. Typical lantern clocks comprised a square case on ball or urn feet, a large circular dial (with a chapter ring extending beyond the width of the case on early examples), a single hour hand, and a large bell and finial. The clocks usually had ornate pierced fretwork on top of the frame.\n\nThe main style characteristics of English lantern clocks are similar to its Continental relatives: a wall clock with square bottom and top plates surmounted by a large bell, four corner pillars, a series of vertical plates positioned behind each other and a 30-hour movement with one or more weights. At the start of the 17th century, the style gradually evolved to a standard to which all clockmakers more or less complied. The guild supervised the clockmakers, who were compelled to work within a prescribed method. Suppliers to the clockmakers' trade contributed to this general style as well. For example, the brass founders supplied stylistically identical clock posts to several clockmakers. In contrast to the Dutch variants, such as stool clocks, English lantern clocks were entirely made of metal (brass and steel).\n\nLantern clocks were originally weight-driven: usually one weight for time keeping and a second for striking. A few later lantern-style clocks were constructed with spring mechanisms, and many surviving examples of the original weight-driven type have been converted to spring or pendulum mechanisms.\n\nIn only a few decades the lantern clock became very popular in London, and from there its popularity spread to the entire country. This is evident from the large number of lantern clocks that still exist. Dozens of clockmakers produced great numbers of these clocks in the city of London during the 17th century. This huge productivity was the result of the high demand for this popular clock in combination with an effective guild system. In 1631 King Charles I granted a charter for a clockmaker guild in London: the Worshipful Company of Clockmakers, which exists to this day. Many of the well-known clockmakers from that era were freemen of this guild. Many small companies were established in Lothbury in London that functioned as suppliers for the clockmakers. A clockmaker could benefit from the services of brass founders who supplied cast brass clock parts, dial plates, finials, pillars, frets etc., or employ engravers who would carry out the engraving of the dial plates and frets. The guild assured the quality of the products that left the clockmakers' workshops. Before a clockmaker could become a freeman, able to set up his own shop, he had to spend 7 years as an apprentice learning the trade. This ensured independent clockmakers a plentiful supply of apprentices, who were also cheap labourers who helped to attain this high productivity.\n\nStyle characteristics were copied from prints that were available for craftsmen. Under the influence of the Renaissance, prints with motives and patterns from the Classical antiquity found their way to the workshops. They served as examples for the clock pillars that were inspired by columns from Greek temples. During the 17th century the tulip became very popular to an extent of a real tulip mania. Prints with pictures of tulips were a rewarding subject for the adornment of the dial plates of lantern clocks. In the early 17th century, lantern clocks got their characteristic shape, which hardly changed during the 17th and halfway through the next century as a result of all this.\n\nThe London Clockmakers equipped their lantern clocks with four pillars inspired by classical columns. Attached to these pillars are classical vase-shaped finials and well-shaped feet. To those finials a bell strap is attached that spreads from four corners and holds a bell. To hide the hammer and the clock movement from the spectator three frets are attached to the finials. The front fret is pierced and engraved whereas the two side frets are pierced but usually left blank. The front of the clock case consists of an engraved dial plate on which a circular dial ring is attached. Almost all lantern clocks originally had just one clock hand to indicate the hours. A standard lantern clock strikes the hours on a large bell and is often equipped with an alarm that rings the same bell. Two doors provide access to the movement and are hinged at the sides of the clock. One or more weights are hanging from ropes or chains at the bottom of the clock.\n\nLantern clocks were produced in vast numbers during the decades before the pioneering invention of the pendulum by the Dutch scientist Christiaan Huygens in 1656. Before this invention, lantern clocks used a balance wheel lacking a balance spring for their timekeeping element, which limited their accuracy to perhaps 15 minutes per day. Shortly after Huygens' invention, the bob pendulum was introduced in England, and most English clockmakers adopted the new system quickly. The pendulum increased the accuracy of clocks so greatly that many existing clocks were converted, with pendulums being added at the back. Measuring time became much more accurate, but most clockmakers kept building lantern clocks without minute hands: this maybe just a matter of tradition. The result was that clockmakers started to develop other types of domestic clocks. Longcase clocks with 8-day movements made lantern clocks obsolete, and gradually lantern clocks disappeared from the London interiors in the first decades of the 18th century. In rural areas lantern clocks were produced until the beginning of the 19th century, and in those years they were also exported to countries like Turkey, and supplied with oriental numbers on their dials. In the Victorian era there was a revival of interest in antique lantern clocks. Unfortunately this also meant that many clocks of renowned makers were stripped of their movements, which were replaced by 'modern' winding movements. Nowadays unmodified original lantern clocks are very rare.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857983", "title": "Chimbu", "text": "Chimbu\n\nChimbu can refer to\n\n"}
{"id": "1857984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857984", "title": "Jan Roothaan", "text": "Jan Roothaan\n\nVery Rev. Jan Philipp Roothaan, S.J. (23 November 1785 – 8 May 1853) was a Dutch Jesuit, elected twenty-first Superior-General of the Society of Jesus.\n\nHe was born to a once-Calvinist family emigrated from Frankfurt to Amsterdam, where they became Catholic. When Jan Philipp, the youngest of three brothers, was sixteen he graduated from the gymnasium of his native town. From there he passed to the \"Athenaeum Illustre\" (high school), and continued his classical studies for four years under Professor David Jacob van Lennep. As an altarboy at de Krijtberg church of Amsterdam the young Roothaan came in touch with ex-Jesuits priests who sent him to Russia when he expressed the desire to become a Jesuit. In 1804 he left his homeland to join the Society of Jesus whose survival in Russia had been recently approved by Pope Pius VII (1801). On the conclusion of his novitiate in Dunaburg, Latvia, he was appointed teacher at the Jesuit gymnasium at Dunaburg from 1806 to 1809. He had already mastered Polish; as a native of Holland, he naturally also spoke French, while the classical Latin, Greek, and Hebrew were also familiar to him. He subsequently studied philosophy and theology at the Jesuit College in Polotsk, and in 1812 was ordained priest.\n\nThe following four years (1812–16) were spent as professor of rhetoric at Pusza; this was the stormy era of the Napoleonic Wars, the same time period that saw Pius VII restore universally the Society of Jesus (1814). The next four years, 1816 to 1820, Roothaan worked partly as teacher and partly in pastoral duties at Orsha in White Russia (modern Belarus). However he had hardly made his final religious profession in the Society (1819) that he was sent into exile by the banishment of the Jesuits from Russia (1820). The exile road ended in Brig, Switzerland. There again he taught rhetoric for three years. Roothaan was subsequently appointed to the rectorship of the newly founded college at Turin and soon after, in 1829, vice-provincial of Italy.\n\nAt the death of Luigi Fortis, the 21st General Congregation was convoked, which, on the 9 July 1829 (at the 4th ballot), elected Jan Philipp Roothaan as Superior General. The mandate given by the Congregation to Roothaan was to strengthen and stabilize the fledgling 'new' Society: going slow on opening new schools, improving the intellectual and spiritual formation of the Jesuits, reintroducing practices of the past (Annual letters, Congregations of procurators every three years, etc.), keeping the Latin language for official communications, being strict with regard to admission to final profession, etc.\n\n\nThose were troubled times. Jesuits often suffered banishment from a country or another, especially in the Revolutions of 1848. Roothaan was sending them letters of encouragement \"in the face of tribulations\". Roothaan himself had to flee Rome for two years, at the time of the Roman Republic. This gave him the opportunity to visit Jesuit communities and works in France, Belgium, Netherlands, England, Ireland; he was the first Superior General to ever do it. However, on his return, his health was broken, his strength began to fail, and fits of weakness announced his approaching end.\n\nAfter 21 years at the helm of the Society Roothaan died on the 8 May 1853, in Rome. During these years the number of Jesuits increased from 2137 to 5209 and high schools passed from 55 to 100. \nA highly talented man and very able administrator Roothaan displayed also an indefatigable zeal for the restoration and spiritual uplift of the Society. He was also a churchman of his time, that is not really open to the socio-political ideas that were shaping Europe in the middle of the 19th century.\n\nRoothaan's biographer summed up his spirit well: \"Impetuous by nature, he governed all passions by the exercise of Christian self-denial, so that a most measured moderation in all things forms his distinctive characteristic.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1857985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857985", "title": "Johnny Niggeling", "text": "Johnny Niggeling\n\nJohn Arnold Niggeling (July 10, 1903 – September 16, 1963) was an American right-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball. He was a knuckleball specialist who pitched for nine seasons (1938–1946) with the Boston Bees/Braves, Cincinnati Reds, St. Louis Browns and Washington Senators.\n\nBorn in Remsen, Iowa, Niggeling broke into the majors at the age of 35. He won a career-high 15 games with the Browns before joining the wartime Senators, who fielded a starting rotation featuring four knuckleballers. He finished in the top ten in league earned run average three times, and twice in strikeouts. His career record was 64–69 with a 3.22 ERA.\n\nIn later years, Niggeling worked as a barber in Le Mars, Iowa.\n\nNiggeling died at age 60 in LeMars, having committed suicide by hanging himself in his hotel room. He had been suffering from back pain the last few years of his life and was recently divorced from his wife.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1857989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857989", "title": "ABBA discography", "text": "ABBA discography\n\nThe discography of Swedish pop music group ABBA consists of eight studio albums, two live albums, seven compilation albums, three box sets, four video albums, seventy-three singles, and thirty-three music videos. This list does not include solo material performed by individual members.\n\nABBA's biggest hit singles worldwide are \"Dancing Queen\" and \"Fernando\", with \"Arrival\" being their biggest hit studio album.\n\nThe compilation album \"\" (1992) has become one of the most popular albums worldwide, with sales of over 30 million copies. ABBA were particularly successful in Sweden, Norway, Denmark, Finland, Germany, The Netherlands, Belgium, Austria, Switzerland, Ireland, The Soviet Union, The Middle East, Australia, New Zealand, Japan, South Africa, Zimbabwe, the UK, Canada, Latin America and the United States.\n\nABBA consisted of Agnetha Fältskog, Anni-Frid Lyngstad (better known as Frida), Benny Andersson and Björn Ulvaeus.\n\n\"For a complete list of all the songs, see List of songs recorded by ABBA\"\n\nNotes\n\n\nThe pre-ABBA songs \"Hej Gamle Man\", \"Tänk Om Jorden Vore Ung\", \"She's My Kind of Girl\", \"Det Kan Ingen Doktor Hjälpa\", \"En karusell/En Carousel\" and \"Love Has Its Ways\" were released in Sweden and/or Japan as singles (1970–1972). These songs were released officially as singles by Björn & Benny, but some featured vocal contributions from both Agnetha Fältskog and Annifrid Lyngstad. The German version of \"Hej Gamle Man\" (\"Hey Musikant\") was released as a single in Germany (1971), while France saw a release of \"Inga Theme\" as a single in 1971.\n\n\"En Sång Och En Saga\" was released as an Agnetha Fältskog solo single in Sweden (1970). It features the remaining ABBA-members as vocalists.\n\n\"En hälsning till våra parkarrangörer\" was released as a promo single (1972) in order promote ABBA's then-upcoming tour of the Swedish \"Folk Parks\". This track was in fact a series of snippets of then well-known ABBA-songs and solo-songs with a spoken overdub featuring all of the ABBA-members. It was officially released as part of the Deluxe Edition of the album \"Ring Ring\" released in 2013.\n\nThe Swedish versions of \"Ring Ring\" (\"Ring Ring (Bara Du Slog En Signal))\", \"Waterloo\", \"SOS\" (solo single by Agnetha Fältskog) and \"Fernando\" (solo single by Annifrid Lyngstad) were released in the Scandinavian markets (1973–1975) (with the Swedish version of \"Honey, Honey\" as the B-side to \"Waterloo\").\n\n\"Rock'n Roll Band\" was released as a single in the US (July 1973).\n\n\"Another Town, Another Train\" was released as a single in Japan, Rhodesia, South Africa, US, and Venezuela (1973).\n\n\"Nina, Pretty Ballerina\" was released as a single in Austria and France (1973) and later in Kenya and the Philippines (1977).\n\n\"I Am Just a Girl\" (1973) and \"That's Me\" (1976) were released as singles in Japan. \"Slipping Through My Fingers\" was released as a promo-single in Japan (1980) on red vinyl/picture disc.\n\nA different mix of the English version of \"Waterloo\" was mistakenly released in Norway (1974), but was quickly withdrawn and replaced by the final mix and most well-known version. It was later released as part of the \"Complete Studio Recordings\" box set.\n\nThe German versions of \"Waterloo\" and \"Ring Ring\" were released as singles in Germany and Austria (1973–1974).\n\nTwo different remixes of \"Ring Ring\" were released as singles in the US, Canada and UK (1974) as a follow-up to \"Waterloo\".\n\nThe French version of \"Waterloo\" was released as a single in France and Canada (1974). It was coupled with \"Gonna Sing You My Love Song\" in France and the English version of \"Waterloo\" in Canada.\n\n\"Hasta Mañana\" was released as a single in Italy, Japan, Portugal, Rhodesia, and South Africa (1974). It peaked at no. 2 in South Africa.\n\n\"Waterloo\" was released in Australia in the EP-format in late 1974 (reissued in 1979). Also on the EP were \"Watch Out\", \"Ring Ring\" and \"Rock 'n' Roll Band.\"\n\n\"Dum Dum Diddle\" was released as a single in Argentina (1976).\n\n\"Live '77\" was released in Sweden (1977) by Jultidningsförlaget as a 7\" flexidisc promo-single. It featured snippets of live versions of \"Fernando\", \"Rock Me\", \"Why Did It Have to Be Me\", \"Money, Money, Money\" and \"Waterloo\".\n\n\"As Good as New\" was released as a single in Argentina, Bolivia, and México (1979).\n\n\"Move On\" was released as a single in Chile (1979).\n\n\"Sång Till Görel\" (1979) and \"Hovas Vittne/Tiveds Hambo\" (1980) were released as private singles in limited numbers in Sweden.\n\nThe Spanish version of \"Chiquitita\" was widely released—throughout South America as well as in Australia, Austria, Canada, France, Germany, South Africa, Spain, and USA. The Spanish versions of \"Andante, Andante\", \"Thank You for the Music\" (\"Gracias Por La Música\"), \"I Have a Dream\" (\"Estoy Soñando\"), \"Happy New Year\" (\"Felicidad\"), \"When All Is Said and Done\" (\"No Hay a Quien Culpar\"), \"Slipping Through My Fingers\" (\"Se Me Está Escapando\"), \"Fernando\", \"Hasta Mañana\", and \"Gimme! Gimme! Gimme! (A Man After Midnight)\" (\"Dame! Dame! Dame!\") were released as singles in various Spanish-speaking countries—primarily in Spain and South América—as well as some in Japan and USA (1979–1981).\n\n\"Our Last Summer\" was released as a single in Greece (1980).\n\n\"Happy New Year\" saw its release as a single in the Netherlands, Brazil and Portugal (1980) and as a promo-only release in Canada and the US (1980). In 1989 the song was released as CD single in Austria and 10 years later as a \"Millennium Edition\" in Germany and the Netherlands. \"Happy New Year\" has since been released as a CD single in European markets as well as a limited, silver-glittered vinyl single (2011) (only 500 copies were released).\n\n\"The Way Old Friends Do\" was released as a promo CD single in Europe (1993).\n\n\"Dream World\" (recorded in 1978) coupled with a snippet of the saxophone version of \"Just Like That\" (recorded in 1982) was released as a promo CD single in 1994, while \"Put On Your White Sombrero\" was released as a promo single in 1996 (coupled with \"Dream World\" and \"Dame! Dame! Dame!\".\n\nThe German version of \"Honey Honey\" (coupled with a 1974 remix of \"Ring Ring\") as well as \"Lay All Your Love on Me\" (coupled with \"On and On and On\" will be released as 7\" singles as part of \"The Singles\" box set (released May 2014). \"Lay All Your Love On Me\" has (apart from the album release) previously (1981) only been released in the 12\" format in The United Kingdom, Ireland, France, Austria and Germany.\n\nSee also \"Non-English releases\" and \"Other releases\" for chart positions.\n\nNotes\n\n\n\n\nSpecific\nGeneral\n"}
{"id": "1857991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857991", "title": "Cromags", "text": "Cromags\n\nCromags may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1857998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1857998", "title": "Terry O'Neill (photographer)", "text": "Terry O'Neill (photographer)\n\nTerence Patrick O'Neill (30 July 1938 – 16 November 2019) was a British photographer, known for documenting the fashions, styles, and celebrities of the 1960s. O'Neill's photographs capture his subjects candidly or in unconventional settings.\n\nHis work has been featured in numerous exhibitions. He was awarded an honorary fellowship of the Royal Photographic Society in 2004 and the society's Centenary Medal in 2011. His work is held in the collection of the National Portrait Gallery, London.\n\nO'Neill was born in Romford, East London, and began his career working in a photographic unit for an airline at London's Heathrow Airport. During this time, he photographed a sleeping figure in a waiting area who, by happenstance, was revealed to be Home Secretary Rab Butler. O'Neill thereafter found further employment on Fleet Street with \"The Daily Sketch\" in 1959. His first professional job was to photograph Laurence Olivier.\n\nDuring the 1960s, in addition to photographing contemporary celebrities such as Judy Garland, the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, he also photographed members of the British royal family and prominent politicians, showing a more human side to these subjects than had usually been portrayed—his photographs capture his subjects candidly or in unconventional settings.\n\nO'Neill's photographs of Elton John are among his best known. A selection of them appeared in the 2008 book \"Eltonography\". Also considered among his most famous images are a series of American actress Faye Dunaway (his girlfriend at the time) at dawn on 29 March 1977, lounging next to the swimming pool at the Beverly Hills Hotel the morning after winning the Academy Award for Best Actress for \"Network\", with several newspapers scattered around her and her Oscar statuette prominently shown on a table beside her breakfast tray. The series was photographed in both colour and black and white.\n\nO'Neill was credited (as Terrence O'Neill) as an executive producer of the film \"Mommie Dearest\" (1981). His only other film credit was for still photography for the opera film \"Aria\" (1987).\n\nO'Neill was married to the actress Vera Day for 13 years; they had two children together, Keegan Alexander and Sarah Jane. He had a long-term relationship with Faye Dunaway; they were married for four years in the 1980s and had a son, Liam. In 2003, he was quoted in the U.S. tabloid magazine \"Star\" as saying Liam was adopted and not their biological son, contrary to Dunaway's public assertions. In 2001 O'Neill married Laraine Ashton, a former model agency executive.\n\nO'Neill underwent a triple bypass and, in 2006, an operation for bowel cancer. He died on 16 November 2019 at his home in London from prostate cancer, at the age of 81.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858002", "title": "Gaston III, Count of Foix", "text": "Gaston III, Count of Foix\n\nGaston Fébus [also spelt Phoebus] (30 April 1331 – 1391) was the eleventh count of Foix (as Gaston III) and viscount of Béarn (as Gaston X) from 1343 until his death.\n\nGaston was born either in Orthez or Foix, the eldest son of Gaston II/IX (1308–1343). As the lord's eldest son, he was given the name, Gaston. He later adopted Fébus as a nickname. In its classic spelling, Phoebus, it is one of the names of the sun-god, Apollo, and is apt because of Gaston Fébus's golden hair. His native language was Gascon (a dialect of Occitan), but he was also fluent in French. He wrote a treatise on hunting in French, and an Occitan song, \"Se Canta\", has been ascribed to him. One contemporary chronicler, Jean Froissart, records that he \"very willingly spoke to me not in his native Gascon but in proper and elegant French\".\n\nBéarn had passed to the county of Foix in 1290. Fébus paid homage to the French king for his own county, but starting in 1347 he refused to give homage for Béarn, which he claimed as an independent fief, with its chief seat his stronghold at Pau, a site that had been fortified by the 11th century, which was later made the official capital of Béarn in 1464.\n\nStarting in 1374, court minutes in the sovereign viscounty were dated with reference to the lord of Béarn. He established international diplomatic relations with Navarre, Castile and Aragon, taking advantage to a large extent of the weakness of the French crown. He started a policy of rapprochement to the realms to the south of the Pyrenees. He, for example, married Agnes, daughter of Philip III and Joan II of Navarre, with the acquiescence of the French king Philip VI.\n\nWhile Gaston eventually repudiated Agnes, he pursued the establishment of a Pyrenean realm under his leadership, and thus secure the control of the thriving commercial route of Toulouse-Bayonne. His intent to reinforce authority across all the area was halfhearted due to economic constraints.\n\nAlthough he designated the king of France as his successor, eventually that did not happen, since the newly established Estates-General of Béarn prevented it. He was succeeded as count of Foix and sovereign viscount of Béarn by Mathieu of Foix-Castelbon.\n\nThe House of Béarn-Foix was engaged in a long running feud with the House of Armagnac. In 1362, a battle was fought between the two noble houses at Launac. Fébus was victorious and succeeded in capturing his chief rivals, whom he ransomed for a vast fortune of at least 600,000 florins. This money was stored in the Moncade tower in Orthez, where Fébus also created a gallery of portraits and military trophies to commemorate the event.\n\nIn late 1388, the chronicler, Jean Froissart, visited the County of Foix and recorded the splendour of Fébus' court at Orthez. He noted that Fébus describes the three \"special delights\" of his life as \"arms, love and hunting\".\n\nFébus was one of the greatest huntsmen of his day, and hunted his entire life – he died of a stroke while washing his hands after returning from a bear hunt. His \"Livre de chasse\" (\"Book of the Hunt\") was written between 1387–1389 and dedicated to Philip the Bold, Duke of Burgundy.\n\nRecorded in the book are different stages of hunting different animals, as well as describing animal behavior, offering advice to less well-off gentry about how to enjoy hunting without bankrupting themselves, and is even sympathetic to the peasant poacher because he too has the hunting instinct.\n\nIt is the classic treatise on Medieval hunting, and was described by scholar, Hannele Klemettilä considers it, as \"one of the most influential texts of its era\". Some forty-four 15th and 16th century illuminated manuscripts survive, the most famous being that held by the Bibliothèque nationale de France, which has exquisite miniatures, illustrating the hunt.\n\nFébus married Agnès of Navarre (1334–1396), daughter of Joan II of Navarre and Philip III of Navarre in 1348. They had a son:\nHe was also the father of four illegitimate children:\n\nAs Jean Froissart records, Fébus was betrayed by his son who also bore the dynastic name, Gaston, and who tried to kill his father using poison given to him by Charles II of Navarre. Fébus caught his son in the act and imprisoned him. In a subsequent violent quarrel, Fébus stabbed his son, who died.\n\nFollowing Gaston's death, Fébus had no legitimate descendants. In 1393, in Paris at a masquerade given by the Queen of France, Isabeau of Bavaria, one of Gaston Fébus's four recorded illegitimate sons, Yvain de Foix, was burned to death when his costume, along with the costumes of four others, caught fire from a torch at the \"Bal des Ardents\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1858006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858006", "title": "Henry Sargent Codman", "text": "Henry Sargent Codman\n\nHenry Sargent Codman was an American landscape architect in Frederick Law Olmsted's celebrated design firm. He was Charles Sprague Sargent's nephew.\n\nAt the age of twenty-five he studied in France with Edouard François André, the French landscape architect soon to be appointed head of the Versailles school.\n\nHe died suddenly while recuperating from an appendectomy on January 13, 1893, while working on the landscape development for the World's Columbian Exposition in Chicago. Daniel H. Burnham later wrote of his work on the exposition grounds: \"Harry Codman's knowledge of formal settings was greater than that of all the others put together... Harry Codman was great in his knowledge and in his instincts. He never failed. He liked to come to the business meetings and occasionally he made an excellent suggestion about organization. I loved the man. Nature spoke through him direct.\" (Architectural Record, January 1913.)\n"}
{"id": "1858010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858010", "title": "Roberto Dabbene", "text": "Roberto Dabbene\n\nRoberto Raul Dabbene (17 January 1864– 20 October 1938) was an Italian-Argentine ornithologist.\n\nBorn in Turin, he studied at the University of Turin and received a doctorate in 1884 from the University of Genoa and moved to Argentina in 1887. After teaching chemistry at the Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, he moved to Buenos Aires in 1890 where he was inspired to study birds by Dr. E. L. Homberg who made him a member of the zoo staff. He studied the Argentine birds for over 40 years, and became curator of birds at the National Museum and writing many of the most important books on the subject. He was a founder of the journal \"El Hornero\".\n"}
{"id": "1858020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858020", "title": "Kettle hat", "text": "Kettle hat\n\nA kettle hat, also known as a war hat, is a type of helmet made of iron or steel in the shape of a brimmed hat. There are many design variations. The only common element is a wide brim that afforded extra protection to the wearer. It gained its common English language name from its resemblance to a metal cooking pot (the original meaning of \"kettle\"). The kettle hat was common all over Medieval Europe. It was called \"Eisenhut\" in German and \"chapel de fer\" in French (both names mean \"iron hat\" in English).\n\nThough similar brimmed helmets are depicted in illustrations of the Carolingian period, their use seems to have disappeared soon after. In the late 12th century, alongside the development of the enclosed helmet, the brimmed helmet makes a reappearance in Western Europe. Also in the 12th century the brimmed helmet begins to be depicted in Byzantine art, and it has been suggested that it was a Byzantine development. \n\nEarly examples were made in the spangenhelm method, of a skull composed of framework filled with separate triangular plates, to which a brim was added. Later kettle hats were raised from a single piece of iron. Of a simple design requiring less time and skill to produce than some other helmet types, it was relatively inexpensive. It was worn most commonly by infantry, however, it was also used by cavalry and even men-at-arms. The wide brim gave good protection against blows from above, such as from cavalry swords, and was very useful in siege warfare as the wide brim would protect the wearer from projectiles shot or dropped from above. It could be worn with or without a mail coif, or later a mail standard or plate gorget, and was secured by a chin strap. The kettle hat had an advantage over some other types of helmet, in that it did not interfere with the wearer's vision, hearing or breathing.\n\nHat-shaped helmets were not just a European invention. Japanese \"Ashigaru\" infantrymen wore the \"jingasa\", a helmet shaped like the Japanese form of the conical Asian hat.\n\nWhen steel helmets reappeared in World War I, the kettle hat made its comeback as the British Brodie helmet (often called tin hat), as well as the French Adrian helmet. These kettle helmets were also used in World War II by the British, Commonwealth forces (such as Australia and Canada).\nThe British produced a helmet for civilian use in World War II designed to give more protection to the head and neck from above.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858023", "title": "Daniell cell", "text": "Daniell cell\n\nThe Daniell cell is a type of electrochemical cell invented in 1836 by John Frederic Daniell, a British chemist and meteorologist, and consists of a copper pot filled with a copper (II) sulfate solution, in which is immersed an unglazed earthenware container filled with sulfuric acid and a zinc electrode. He was searching for a way to eliminate the hydrogen bubble problem found in the voltaic pile, and his solution was to use a second electrolyte to consume the hydrogen produced by the first. Zinc sulfate may be substituted for the sulfuric acid. The Daniell cell was a great improvement over the existing technology used in the early days of battery development. A later variant of the Daniell cell called the gravity cell or crowfoot cell was invented in the 1860s by a Frenchman named Callaud and became a popular choice for electrical telegraphy.\n\nThe Daniell cell is also the historical basis for the contemporary definition of the volt, which is the unit of electromotive force in the International System of Units. The definitions of electrical units that were proposed at the 1881 International Conference of Electricians were designed so that the electromotive force of the Daniell cell would be about 1.0 volts. With contemporary definitions, the standard potential of the Daniell cell at 25 °C is actually 1.10 V.\n\nIn the Daniell cell, copper and zinc electrodes are immersed in a solution of copper(II) sulfate and zinc sulfate, respectively. At the anode (negative electrode), zinc is oxidized per the following half reaction:\n\nAt the cathode (positive electrode), copper is reduced per the following reaction:\n\nNote that positively charged copper ions move towards the positive electrode, driven by a reduction in chemical energy.\n\nThe total reaction is:\n\nThese processes result in the accumulation of solid copper at the cathode and the corrosion of the zinc electrode into the solution as zinc cations. The Daniell cell produces approximately 213 kJ per mole (65 g) of zinc. This energy can mostly be attributed to the 207 kJ/mol weaker bonding (smaller magnitude of the cohesive energy) in zinc compared to copper metal, which can be explained in terms of the lack of bonding via partially filled d-orbitals in zinc. \n\nIn classroom demonstrations, a form of the Daniell cell known as two half cells is often used due to its simplicity. The two half cells each support one half of the reactions described above. A wire and light bulb may connect the two electrodes. Excess electrons produced by the oxidation of zinc metal are “pushed” out of the anode, which is therefore the negative electrode, travel through the wire and are \"pulled\" into the copper cathode where they are consumed by the reduction of copper ions. This provides an electrical current that illuminates the bulb. \n\nSince neither half reaction will occur independently of the other, the two half cells must be connected in a way that will allow ions to move freely between them. A porous barrier or ceramic disk may be used to separate the two solutions while allowing the flow of sulfate ions. When the half cells are placed in two entirely different and separate containers, a salt bridge is often used to connect the two cells. The salt bridge typically contains a high concentration of potassium nitrate (a salt that will not interfere chemically with the reaction in either half-cell). In the above wet-cell during discharge, nitrate anions in the salt bridge move into the zinc half-cell in order to balance the increase in Zn ions. At the same time, potassium ions from the salt bridge move into the copper half-cell in order to replace the Cu ions being precipitated onto the copper electrode.\n\nIf the cell is connected to a potential source (e.g. a battery charger) such that the potential difference of the source is slightly higher than the cell emf (1.1 v) then the current flow could be reversed and the reaction would become:\n\nor,\n\nHence, the Daniell cell is \"reversible,\" if the current drawn from (or fed to) it is small. The Daniell cell can be used to ‘generate’ electricity, by consuming an electrode, or to store electricity.\n\nDaniell first constructed his cell in 1836. His original design consisted of a 3.5 inch diameter copper cylinder. A copper disc perforated with numerous holes was placed across the cylinder recessed down from the top. A tube of ox gullet hung from a large hole in the centre of the perforated copper disc. A 0.5 inch diameter zinc rod hung inside this ox-gullet tube suspended from wooden supports. The copper vessel was filled with sulfuric acid solution saturated with copper sulfate to above the level of the perforated disc. The ox-gullet tube was filled with sulfuric acid solution. Copper sulfate crystals were piled on the perforated copper disc to keep the solution saturated. The ox-gullet acts as a porous membrane allowing passage of ions. Daniell states that a porous earthenware tube may be used instead of the ox gullet for practical ease but this arrangement will produce less power. Another suggestion made by Daniell to improve the cell was to replace the copper with platinum and copper sulfate with platinum chloride, but he remarks \"such an arrangement would be perfect, but too costly for ordinary applications\". It is the porous pot form of the cell that came to be widely used in telegraphy.\n\nThe porous pot cell consists of a central zinc anode dipped into a porous earthenware pot containing a zinc sulfate solution. The porous pot is, in turn, immersed in a solution of copper sulfate contained in a copper can, which acts as the cell's cathode. The use of a porous barrier allows ions to pass through but keeps the solutions from mixing. Without this barrier, when no current is drawn the copper ions will drift to the zinc anode and undergo reduction without producing a current, which will shorten the battery's life. The replacement of sulfuric acid with zinc sulfate was the innovation of J. F. Fuller in 1853. It prolongs the life of the cell.\n\nOver time, copper buildup will block the pores in the earthenware barrier and cut short the battery's life. Nevertheless, the Daniell cell provides a longer and more reliable current than the Voltaic pile because the electrolyte deposited copper, which is a conductor, rather than hydrogen, which is an insulator, on the cathode. It is also safer and less corrosive. With an operating voltage of roughly 1.1 volts, it saw widespread use in telegraph networks until it was supplanted by the Leclanché cell in the late 1860s.\n\nSometime during the 1860s, a Frenchman by the name of Callaud invented a variant of the Daniell cell which dispensed with the porous barrier. Instead, a layer of zinc sulfate sits on top of a layer of copper sulfate, the two liquids are kept separate by their differing densities, often with a layer of oil added on top to prevent evaporation. This reduces the internal resistance of the system and thus the battery yields a stronger current.\n\nThis variant, called a gravity cell, consists of a glass jar in which a copper cathode sat on the bottom and a zinc anode is suspended beneath the rim in the zinc sulfate layer. Copper sulfate crystals are scattered around the cathode and the jar then filled with distilled water. As the current is drawn, a layer of zinc sulfate solution forms at the top around the anode. This top layer is kept separate from the bottom copper sulfate layer by its lower density and by the polarity of the cell. A disadvantage of the gravity cell is that a current has to be continually drawn to keep the two solutions from mixing by diffusion, so it is unsuitable for intermittent use. In addition, it was vulnerable to loss of integrity if too much electric current is drawn, which also causes the layers to mix.\n\nSometimes called the crowfoot cell due to the distinctive shape of the electrodes, this arrangement is less costly for large multicell batteries and it quickly became the battery of choice for the American and British telegraph networks. Even after most telegraph lines started being powered by motor-generators, the gravity battery continued to be used in way stations to power the local circuit at least into the 1950s. In the telegraph industry, this battery was often assembled on site by the telegraph workers themselves, and when it ran down it could be renewed by replacing the consumed components. The zinc sulfate layer is clear in contrast to the deep blue copper sulfate layer, which allows a technician to determine the battery life with a glance. On the other hand, this setup means the battery could only be used in a stationary appliance, otherwise the solutions would mix or spill.\n\nA variant of the Daniell cell was invented in 1837 by the Guy's hospital physician Golding Bird who used a plaster of Paris barrier to keep the solutions separate. Bird's experiments with this cell were of some importance to the new discipline of electrometallurgy, but Bird himself did not pursue this field; his interest was in electrotherapy. A surprising result from Bird's experiments was the deposition of copper on the porous plaster and in veins running through it without any contact with the metal electrodes. So surprising, in fact, that it was at first disbelieved by electrochemical investigators, including Michael Faraday. Bird himself had to carefully examine his apparatus for inadvertent contact, perhaps through the growth of copper \"whiskers\", before he was convinced of the result. Deposition of copper, and other metals, had been previously noted, but always previously it had been metal on metal electrode.\n\nJohn Dancer, a Liverpool instrument maker, in 1838 was the first to take commercial advantage of the unique features of the Daniell cell for copper plating. In a process now known as electrotyping he found he could make objects to any desired shape by using the porous barrier as a mould. Many others, however, had made the same discovery and in a patent dispute with Thomas Spencer it was pointed out that Bird had priority for the principle. Credit for invention of electrotyping is usually given to the Russian Moritz von Jacobi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858030", "title": "Édgar Ponce", "text": "Édgar Ponce\n\nÉdgar Ponce García (27 December 1977 – 5 May 2005) was a Mexican actor and dancer. Ponce was a member of the male dance troupe \"Sólo Para Mujeres\" (\"For Women Only\") and appeared in a number of soap operas (\"telenovelas\") which were popular in both Mexico and the United States.\n\nOn 5 May 2005, while filming a commercial with his troupe in Mexico City, an overtaking car slammed into his motorcycle caravan, sending Ponce flying into the air and injuring three other actors. Ponce was rushed to the hospital but died early the next morning. Police charged the driver with involuntary homicide and detected alcohol on his breath, but believed he did not intend to kill Ponce. Ponce's co-star Poncho de Nigris accused the man of trying to hit them, stating, \"the car didn't hit the brakes or anything\".\n\nOther controversies ensued due to the troupe riding on the central section of Mexico City ring road \"(Periférico)\" in violation of a local traffic bylaw requiring motorcycles to use the side lanes, as well as the actions of the producer, Sergio Mayer. Mayer was filming without permission and failed to ask for police assistance; authorities warned he could be charged with a crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858031", "title": "St. Stephen's School", "text": "St. Stephen's School\n\nSt. Stephen's School may refer to one of the following schools or colleges:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858034", "title": "Australian Qualifications Framework", "text": "Australian Qualifications Framework\n\nThe Australian Qualifications Framework (AQF) specifies the standards for educational qualifications in Australia. It is administered nationally by the Australian Government's Department of Industry, with oversight from the States and Territories, through the Standing Council of Tertiary Education Skills and Employment. While the AQF specifies the standards, education and training organisations are authorised by accrediting authorities to issue a qualification.\n\nThe Framework is structured around levels of descriptive criteria, with formal qualifications aligned to the appropriate levels.\n\nThe Senior Secondary Certificate of Education (SSCE) is the graduation certificate awarded to most students in Australian high schools, and is equivalent to the Advance Placement of North America and the A-Levels of the United Kingdom. Students completing the SSCE are usually aged 16 to 18 and study full-time for two years (years 11 and 12 of schooling). In some states adults may gain the certificate through a Technical and Further Education college or other provider.\n\nThe curriculum, assessment and name of the SSCE is different in each state and territory. The government of each determines these themselves, although the curriculum must address mutually agreed national competencies.\n\nUniversities Australia generates a nationally standardised final score for each SSCE student called the\nAustralian Tertiary Admission Rank.\nUniversities and other Higher Education providers typically use this mark as the main criterion in selecting domestic students.\nPrior to 2010, this was called the Equivalent National Tertiary Entrance Rank (ENTER) in Victoria,\nand the University Admissions Index (UAI) in New South Wales and the Australian Capital Territory, and the Tertiary Entrance Rank (TER) elsewhere.\n\nCompeting qualifications outside the Australian Qualifications Framework are the International Baccalaureate (IB) and \"Accelerated Christian Education(ACE) Year 12 Academic Certificate.\" The IB is well accepted by universities. ACE has lesser support, and students may also have to additionally pass a Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT).\n\nThere has been growing overlap between the Vocational Education and Training (VET), organised under the National Training System, and Higher Education sectors in Australia. Courses are primarily taken by those aged over 18, however in some vocational and general academic courses a minority of students enter at the minimum school-leaving age of 16, although from May 2009 Federal Government policy calls for young people to be in education, gainful employment, or training until age 17 (Year 12 qualification) with tightening of income support payments to age 20 if not undertaking further training. This tends to happen particularly at Technical and Further Education colleges (TAFE), and is less likely to happen at a university or a private institution.\n\nThe two sectors form a continuum, with VET at the lower end and Higher Education at the higher. VET courses are typically short, practical in nature and delivered by a TAFE college or Registered Training Organisation at a certificate to diploma level. Higher Education courses take three years or longer to complete, are academic in nature and are delivered by universities at degree level. There is significant overlap, however; a TAFE college may offer degrees and universities may offer certificates and diplomas. A number of private institutions and community education centres cover the full range of qualifications.\n\nThere has been a strong push towards mutual recognition of qualifications, with VET or Higher Education courses recognised towards other courses (and for those under 21 towards an SSCE). A process of Recognition of Prior Learning (RPL) has been implemented to allow competencies gained through work and other experience to be assessed and recognised. For instance, a \"Diploma of Agriculture\" might be recognised as the equivalent of the first year of the \"Bachelor of Agricultural Science\" degree; a unit of \"Letter Writing\" in a \"Certificate IV of Writing\" might be recognised as a unit towards a \"Bachelor of Business\" degree; experience in aged care might be recognised towards a \"Certificate in Community Services\".\n\nAll students doing nationally recognised training need to have a Unique Student Identifier (USI).\n\nCertificates I-IV are the basic qualifications and prepare candidates for both employment and further education and training. There is no firm duration for these qualifications. Entry for Certificate III and Certificate IV courses requires the completion of Year 10 or Year 11 education respectively.\n\nCertificates I-II provide basic vocational skills and knowledge, while Certificates III-IV replace the previous system of \"trade certificates\" and provide training in more advanced skills and knowledge. These courses are usually delivered by TAFE colleges, community education centres and registered private training providers.\n\nCourses at Diploma, Advanced Diploma and Associate degree level take between one and three years to complete, and are generally considered to be equivalent to one to two years of study at degree level.\n\"Diploma\" and \"Advanced Diploma\" are titles given more practical courses, while \"Associate degree\" is given to more academic courses. Entry into Diploma and Advance Diploma courses requires the completion of Year 12 education.\n\nThese courses are usually delivered by universities, TAFE colleges, community education centres and private RTO's (Registered Training Organisations).\n\nThe Bachelor degree is the standard university qualification and is recognised worldwide. Most courses take three to four years to complete and are Level 7 qualifications.\n\nHonours may be awarded on top of a bachelor's degree after an additional year of study for three-year degrees or, in the case of four-year degrees, for performance at credit or distinction average level. An Honours degree is a Level 8 qualification and is denoted by \"Hons\" in parentheses following the degree abbreviation, for example BA (Hons). Honours degrees requiring an additional year of study generally involve a research project and require the completion of a thesis during the optional fourth year of study.\n\nTraditionally these courses have almost exclusively been delivered by universities, however there is now a growing number of TAFE institutions and private colleges who have higher education status to deliver degree programs.\n\nGraduate Certificate and Graduate diplomas are Level 8 qualifications alongside the Bachelor (Honours) degree. Entry to a Graduate Certificate or Graduate Diploma typically requires completion of a bachelor's degree or higher. In some cases, admission may be on the basis of significant work experience. Graduate Certificates typically take six months of full-time study to complete, while Graduate Diplomas take twelve months.\n\nThese courses are usually delivered by universities and private providers.\n\nA Master's degree usually requires two years of full-time study to complete. A completed bachelor's degree, sometimes with honours, is a prerequisite for admission. The pattern of study generally takes one of the following three forms:\n\nMaster's degree (extended) are permitted to deviate from the 'Master of ...' naming convention. Those in legal practice may use the name Juris Doctor, but do not allow a graduate use of the honorific title 'doctor'. Master's degree (extended) in medical practice, physiotherapy, dentistry, optometry and veterinary practice are allowed to be named 'Doctor of ...' or 'Master of ...' such as Doctor/Master of Dentistry, Doctor/Master of Optometry and Doctor/Master of Medicine, and graduates are permitted to use 'doctor' (Dr.) as a courtesy title where it is existing practice for that profession. Universities are not permitted to refer to these degrees as doctorates and must note on documentation such as transcripts that the qualification is a master's degree (extended).\n\nMaster's level courses are delivered by universities and a limited number of registered private providers.\n\nThe highest qualification, a Doctoral degree is awarded by a university. This generally requires the completion of a major thesis, which has to be assessed externally by experts in the field of study. Additionally, there are professional doctorates, which require less research and are partially assessed by coursework or projects. Entry into an Australian Doctorate program requires an Honours degree or \"Honours equivalent\". A Master's degree is usually considered equivalent. Holders of Doctoral degrees are permitted to use the title 'Doctor'.\n\nWhilst the AQF specifies the standards for qualifications, it is the education and training organisations that issue a qualification. Education and training organisations are authorised to issue qualifications by one of the following authorities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858036", "title": "American Society of Landscape Architects", "text": "American Society of Landscape Architects\n\nThe American Society of Landscape Architects (ASLA) is a professional association for landscape architects in the United States. The ASLA's mission is to advance landscape architecture through advocacy, communication, education, and fellowship.\n\nThe ASLA was established on January 4, 1899 in New York City by a group of eleven founding members: President John Charles Olmsted, Nathan Franklin Barrett, Beatrix Farrand, Daniel W. Langton, Charles N. Lowrie, Warren H. Manning, Frederick Law Olmsted Jr., Samuel Parsons, George F. Pentecost Jr., Ossian Cole Simonds, and Downing Vaux. In 1960, the headquarters was moved to Washington, D.C.\n\nThe ASLA bestows various awards annually to professionals and students in the field of landscape architecture for designs and projects. Categories range in size, scale, and type from small residential areas to large parks and waterfronts. Their lifetime achievement award is called the American Society of Landscape Architects Medal.\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "1858045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858045", "title": "Xifeng County, Guizhou", "text": "Xifeng County, Guizhou\n\nXifeng () is a county with 250,000 inhabitants in the Guiyang Prefecture of Guizhou Province of the People's Republic of China. It is under the administration of the provincial capital, Guiyang.\n\nXifeng has an area of . The seat of the county is Yongjing ().\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858049", "title": "Mickey Haefner", "text": "Mickey Haefner\n\nMilton Arnold \"Mickey\" Haefner (October 9, 1912 – January 3, 1995), also known as \"Itsy-Bitsy\" Haefner, was an American knuckleball-throwing left-handed pitcher in Major League Baseball who played eight seasons from 1943 to 1950, six and a half of them with the Washington Senators (1943–49), later joining the Chicago White Sox (1949–50) and the Boston Braves (1950). His career record was 78–91, with an ERA of 3.50.\n"}
{"id": "1858051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858051", "title": "Plague of Athens", "text": "Plague of Athens\n\nThe Plague of Athens (, ) was an epidemic that devastated the city-state of Athens in ancient Greece during the second year of the Peloponnesian War (430 BC) when an Athenian victory still seemed within reach. The plague killed an estimated 75,000 to 100,000 people and is believed to have entered Athens through Piraeus, the city's port and sole source of food and supplies. Much of the eastern Mediterranean also saw an outbreak of the disease, albeit with less impact.\n\nThe plague had serious effects on Athens' society, resulting in a lack of adherence to laws and religious belief; in response laws became stricter, resulting in the punishment of non-citizens claiming to be Athenian. In addition, Pericles, the leader of Athens, died from the plague. The plague returned twice more, in 429 BC and in the winter of 427/426 BC. Some 30 pathogens have been suggested as having caused the plague.\n\nSparta and its allies, with the exception of Corinth, were almost exclusively land based powers, able to summon large land armies that were very nearly unbeatable. In the face of a combined campaign on land from Sparta and its allies beginning in 431 BC, the Athenians, under the direction of Pericles, pursued a policy of retreat within the city walls of Athens, relying on Athenian maritime supremacy for supply while the superior Athenian navy harassed Spartan troop movements. Unfortunately, the strategy also resulted in massive migration from the Attic countryside into an already highly-populated city, generating overpopulation and resource shortage. Due to the close quarters and poor hygiene exhibited at that time, Athens became a breeding ground for disease and many citizens died. In the history of epidemics, the 'Plague' of Athens is remarkable for the one-sidedness of the affliction as well as for its influence on the ultimate outcome of the war.\n\nIn his \"History of the Peloponnesian War\", the historian Thucydides, who was present and contracted the disease himself and survived, describes the epidemic. He writes of a disease coming from Ethiopia and passing through Egypt and Libya into the Greek world and spreading throughout the wider Mediterranean; a plague so severe and deadly that no one could recall anywhere its like, and physicians ignorant of its nature not only were helpless but themselves died the fastest, having had the most contact with the sick. In overcrowded Athens, the disease killed an estimated 25% of the population. The sight of the burning funeral pyres of Athens caused the Spartans to withdraw their troops, being unwilling to risk contact with the diseased enemy. Many of Athens' infantry and expert seamen died. According to Thucydides, not until 415 BC had Athens recovered sufficiently to mount a major offensive, the disastrous Sicilian Expedition.\n\nThe first corroboration of the plague was not revealed until 1994-95 where excavation revealed the first mass grave. Upon this discovery, Thucydides' accounts of the event as well as analysis of the remains had been used to try and identify the cause of the epidemic.\n\nAccounts of the Athenian plague graphically describe the social consequences of an epidemic. Thucydides' account clearly details the complete disappearance of social morals during the time of the plague:\n\nThis perceived impact of the Athenian plague on collective social and religious behavior echoes accounts of the medieval pandemic best known as the Black Death, although scholars have disputed its objective veracity in both instances, citing a historical link between epidemic disease and unsubstantiated moral panic.\n\nThucydides states that people ceased fearing the law since they felt they were already living under a death sentence. Likewise, people started spending money indiscriminately. Many felt they would not live long enough to enjoy the fruits of wise investment, while some of the poor unexpectedly became wealthy by inheriting the property of their relatives. It is also recorded that people refused to behave honorably because most did not expect to live long enough to enjoy a good reputation for it.\n\nAnother reason for the lack of honorable behavior was the sheer contagiousness of the illness. Those who tended to the ill were most vulnerable to catching the disease. This meant that many people died alone because no one was willing to risk caring for them. The dead were heaped on top of each other, left to rot, or shoved into mass graves. Sometimes those carrying the dead would come across an already burning funeral pyre, dump a new body on it, and walk away. Others appropriated prepared pyres so as to have enough fuel to cremate their own dead. Those lucky enough to survive the plague developed an immunity and so became the main caretakers of those who later fell ill.\n\nA mass grave and nearly 1,000 tombs, dated between 430 and 426 BC, have been found just outside Athens' ancient Kerameikos cemetery. The mass grave was bordered by a low wall that seems to have protected the cemetery from a wetland. Excavated during 1994–95, the shaft-shaped grave may have contained a total of 240 individuals, at least ten of them children. Skeletons in the graves were randomly placed with no layers of soil between them.\n\nExcavator Efi Baziotopoulou-Valavani, of the Third Ephoreia (Directorate) of Antiquities, reported that \"[t]he mass grave did not have a monumental character. The offerings we found consisted of common, even cheap, burial vessels; black-finished ones, some small red-figured, as well as white lekythoi (oil flasks) of the second half of the 5th century BC. The bodies were placed in the pit within a day or two. These [factors] point to a mass burial in a state of panic, quite possibly due to a plague.\"\n\nDuring this time refugees from the Peloponnesian war had immigrated within the Long Walls of Athens, inflating the populations of both the polis of Athens and the port of Piraeus. The population had tripled in this time increasing chance of infection along with poor hygiene.\n\nThe plague also caused religious uncertainty and doubt. Since the disease struck without regard to a person's piety toward the gods, people felt abandoned by the gods and there seemed to be no benefit to worshiping them. The temples themselves were sites of great misery, as refugees from the Athenian countryside had been forced to find accommodation in the temples. Soon the sacred buildings were filled with the dead and dying. The Athenians pointed to the plague as evidence that the gods favored Sparta, and this was supported by an oracle that Apollo himself (the god of disease and medicine) would fight for Sparta if they fought with all their might. An earlier oracle had warned that \"A Dorian [Spartan] war will come, and bring a pestilence with it\".\n\nThucydides is skeptical of these conclusions and believes that people were simply being superstitious. He relies upon the prevailing medical theory of the day, Hippocratic theory, and strives to gather evidence through direct observation. He notes that carrion-eating birds and animals disappeared as a result, though he leaves it an open question whether they died after eating the corpses or refused to eat them and were driven away:\nThe plague was an unforeseen event that resulted in one of the largest recorded loss of life in ancient Greece as well as a breakdown of Athenian society. The balance of power between citizens had changed due to many of the rich dying and their fortunes being inherited by remaining relatives of the lower class. According to Thucydides, those who had become ill and survived were the most sympathetic to others suffering: believing that they could no longer succumb to any illness, a number of survivors offered to assist with the remaining sick. The plague had also contributed to Athens' overall loss of power and ability to expand. Many of the remaining Athenians were found to be metics who had forged their documentation or had bribed officials to hide their original status. A number of these people were reduced to slaves once they were caught. This resulted in stricter laws dictating who can become an Athenian citizen, reducing both their number of potential soldiers and amount of political power, but also a decline in treatment and rights for metics in Athens. \n\nThe plague dealt massive damage to Athens two years into the Peloponnesian War, from which it never recovered. Their political strength had weakened and morale among their armies as well as the citizens had fallen significantly. Athens would then go on to be defeated by Sparta and fall from being a major superpower in Ancient Greece.\n\nAccording to Thucydides, the Plague of Athens, the illness began by showing symptoms in the head as it worked its way through the rest of the body. He also describes in detail the symptoms victims of the plague experienced.\n\n\nHistorians have long tried to identify the disease behind the Plague of Athens. The disease has traditionally been considered an outbreak of the bubonic plague in its many forms, but reconsideration of the reported symptoms and epidemiology have led scholars to advance alternative explanations. These include typhus, smallpox, measles, and toxic shock syndrome. Based upon striking descriptive similarities with recent outbreaks in Africa, as well as the fact that the Athenian plague itself apparently came from Africa (as Thucydides recorded), Ebola or a related viral hemorrhagic fever has been considered.\n\nGiven the possibility that profiles of a known disease may have changed over time, or that the plague was caused by a disease that no longer exists, the exact nature of the Athenian plague may never be known. In addition, crowding caused by the influx of refugees into the city led to inadequate food and water supplies and a probable proportionate increase in insects, lice, rats, and waste. These conditions would have encouraged more than one epidemic disease during the outbreak.\n\nIn January 1999, the University of Maryland devoted their fifth annual medical conference, dedicated to notorious case histories, to the Plague of Athens. They concluded that the disease that killed the Greeks was typhus. \"Epidemic typhus fever is the best explanation,\" said Dr. David Durack, consulting professor of medicine at Duke University. \"It hits hardest in times of war and privation, it has about 20 percent mortality, it kills the victim after about seven days, and it sometimes causes a striking complication: gangrene of the tips of the fingers and toes. The Plague of Athens had all these features.\" In typhus cases, progressive dehydration, debilitation and cardiovascular collapse ultimately cause the patient's death.\n\nThis medical opinion is supported by the opinion of A. W. Gomme, who wrote a comprehensive annotated edition of Thucydides and who also believed typhus was the cause of the epidemic. This opinion is expressed in his monumental work \"Historic Comments on Thucydides\", completed after Gomme's death by A. Andrewes and K. J. Dover. Angelos Vlachos (), a member of the Academy of Athens and a diplomat, in his \"Remarks on Thucydides\" (, [1992] I: 177–178) acknowledges and supports Gomme's opinion: \"Today, according to Gomme, it is generally acceptable that it was typhus\" (\"\"). The theory has also found support recent in a study of the plague by Greek epidemiologists.\n\nSymptoms generally associated with typhoid resemble Thucydides' description. They include:\n\nSome characteristics of typhoid are at clear variance from Thucydides' description. Scavenger animals do not die from infection with typhoid, the onset of fever in typhoid is typically slow and subtle, and typhoid generally kills later in the disease course. As typhoid is most commonly transmitted through poor hygiene habits and public sanitation conditions in crowded urban areas, it is an unlikely cause of a plague emerging in the less urbanized Africa, as reported by Thucydides.\n\nA 2005 DNA study of dental pulp from teeth recovered from an ancient Greek burial pit, led by the orthodontist Dr. Manolis Papagrigorakis of the University of Athens, found DNA sequences similar to those of \"Salmonella enterica\" (\"S. enterica\"), the organism that causes typhoid fever.\n\nA second group of researchers, including American evolutionary molecular biologist Dr. Beth Shapiro of the University of California, Santa Cruz, disputed the Papagrigorakis team's findings, citing what they claim are serious methodological flaws. In a letter to the International Journal of Infectious Diseases, Shapiro et al. stated that \"while this DNA analysis confirms that the Athens sequence is possibly \"Salmonella\", it demonstrates clearly that it is not typhoid.\"\n\nThe technique used by the Papagrigorakis team (PCR) has shown itself to be prone to contamination-induced false-positive results, and the source burial site is known to have been heavily trafficked in antiquity by hogs, carriers of another \"Salmonella\" serovar that may have been confused with the one that causes typhoid fever. Nonetheless, the Papagrigorakis team assert that the basis of this refutation is flimsy, and that the methodology used by the Shapiro team has historically produced conflicting results.\n\nThucydides' narrative pointedly refers to increased risk among caregivers, more typical of the person-to-person contact spread of viral hemorrhagic fever (e.g., Ebola virus disease or Marburg virus) than typhus or typhoid. Unusual in the history of plagues during military operations, besieging Spartan troops are described as not having been afflicted by the illness raging near them within the city. Thucydides' description further invites comparison with VHF in the character and sequence of symptoms developed, and of the usual fatal outcome on about the eighth day. Some scientists have interpreted Thucydides' expression \"\" () as the unusual symptom of hiccups, which is now recognized as a common finding in Ebola virus disease. Outbreaks of VHF in Africa in 2012 and 2014 reinforced observations of the increased hazard to caregivers and the necessity of barrier precautions for preventing disease spread related to grief rituals and funerary rites. The 2015 west African Ebola outbreak noted persistence of effects on genitalia and eyes in some survivors, both described by Thucydides. With an up to 21-day clinical incubation period, and up to 565-day infectious potential recently demonstrated in a semen-transmitted infection, movement of Ebola via Nile commerce into the busy port of Piraeus is plausible. Ancient Greek intimacy with African sources is reflected in accurate renditions of monkeys in art of frescoes and pottery, most notably guenons (\"Cercopithecus\"), the type of primates responsible for transmitting Marburg virus into Germany and Yugoslavia when that disease was first characterized in 1967. Circumstantially tantalizing is the requirement for the large quantity of ivory used in the Athenian sculptor Phidias’ two monumental ivory and gold statues of Athena and of Zeus (one of the Seven Wonders), which were fabricated in the same decade. Never again in antiquity was ivory used on such a large scale.\n\nA second ancient narrative suggesting hemorrhagic fever etiology is that of Titus Lucretius Carus. Writing in the 1st century BC, Lucretius characterized the Athenian plague as having \"bloody\" or black discharges from bodily orifices. Lucretius cited and was an admirer of scientific predecessors in Greek Sicily Empedocles and Acron. While none of the original works of Acron, a physician, are extant, it is reported that he died c. 430 BC after travel to Athens to combat the plague.\n\nUnfortunately DNA sequence-based identification is limited by the inability of some important pathogens to leave a \"footprint\" retrievable from archaeological remains after several millennia. The lack of a durable signature by RNA viruses means some etiologies, notably the hemorrhagic fever viruses, are not testable hypotheses using currently available scientific techniques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858057", "title": "Better Than Life", "text": "Better Than Life\n\nBetter Than Life is a science fiction comedy novel by Grant Naylor, the collective name for Rob Grant and Doug Naylor, co-creators and writers of the \"Red Dwarf\" television series, on which the novel is based. The main plotline was developed and expanded from the \"Red Dwarf\" episode of the same name, as well as the Series 3 and 4 episodes: \"White Hole, Marooned, Polymorph,\" and \"Backwards\".\n\nThe book, first published April 4 1991, is a sequel to \"\", and was the first Red Dwarf novel to receive its first print run in hardback edition. Like the first novel, \"Better Than Life\" became a best seller and was reproduced in paperback, omnibus and audiobook versions. Two further novels, \"Last Human\" and \"Backwards\", were each created as alternate sequels by the writers, and followed in 1995 and 1996 respectively.\n\nFollowing on from \"Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers\", Lister, Rimmer and the Cat have discovered a cache of 'Better Than Life' headbands in one of the sleeping quarters. They fantasize that they board the Nova 5 and use its Duality Jump drive to return to Earth.\n\nThe messages on his arm cause Lister to realize that he is in the game, and he confronts Rimmer. They travel to Denmark and meet with the Cat. While discussing how to get out, Kryten arrives and explains how they started playing, and to leave they need only want to leave, but their subsequent attempts to escape fail because the game lures them in.\n\nTheir collective fantasies fall apart because of Rimmer's massive self-loathing; even if he wants to stay, he hates himself so much that his mind has only built up his life so that it can bring him down later. As a result, his company crashes, his new physical body is repossessed, and his attempt to escape leaves him trapped with a pair of violent criminals and transferred into the body of a female prostitute. Rimmer's escape damages the fantasies of the other three, forcing them all to depart.\n\nOnce back in the real world, Rimmer and Kryten leave Lister and Cat in the infirmary to recuperate- the two near-starved and physically weak after almost two years of near-inactivity while in the Game- but learn that ship's computer Holly has shut himself down, as an experiment to cure his computer senility suggested by Talkie Toaster- a sentient Toaster with a fixation with doing its job- and restore his original IQ of 6 000 has given him an IQ of 12 000 at the cost of reducing his lifespan to a few minutes. With the ship now virtually powerless without Holly's control, it is discovered to be locked on course for a planet, but after attempts to manually restart the engines fail, Holly is able to use his remaining minutes of life to come up with a plan to knock the planet out of its orbit with an explosive. \n\nHolly's plan succeeds, but damage sustained to the \"Starbug\" shuttle causes Rimmer and Lister to crash-land on a drifting ice planet. Rimmer is returned to \"Red Dwarf\" when his remote projection unit runs out of power, but cannot send help for Lister as the ship has become trapped in the event horizon of a black hole. Back on the planet, Lister realises that he has arrived on Earth, which was sent drifting out of orbit after it became the solar system's garbage dump, Lister becoming the 'king' of the mutated giant cockroaches that are the planet's only remaining life. \n\nBack on the \"Dwarf\", the crew are able to escape as Holly told the Toaster how to get out of a black hole before he shut himself down. Unfortunately, when the Dwarfers finally go to rescue Lister- with Rimmer and the Cat in one ship and Kryten and the Toaster in the other- Rimmer and the Cat are shocked to find a beautiful farm amidst the garbage, tended by an old Lister. Because of the time dilation of the black hole, thirty-four years have passed on the planet. A shape-shifting, emotion-stealing mutant known as a polymorph is able to sneak on board the ship, draining Lister of his fear, Cat of his confidence, Kryten of his guilt and Rimmer of his rage. Eventually the emotionally handicapped crew are able to defeat the Polymorph, but the abrupt restoration of his fear causes Lister to die of a heart attack. Rather than burying Lister, they take him to Universe 3, where time runs backwards.\n\nLister returns to life on a version of Earth where time runs backwards. He recovers from his heart attack, regurgitates lunch, and is forced to take a wallet and watch from a mugger. A message from the Dwarf crew instructs Lister to meet them in thirty-six years (they can't stay with him or they would have gotten younger). Lister takes a taxi to his new home and finds an elderly Kochanski waiting for him. Lister is happy, knowing that he and Kochanski have many years behind them to look forward to.\n\nWe are first introduced to the game in a series two episode titled \"Better Than Life\". The game arrives among other fantastic packages in a post pod, which is encountered after \"Red Dwarf\" turns around to head for home. It is part of a series of 'VR Total Immersion Video Games', which work by inserting electrodes into the user's frontal lobes and hypothalamus. The user becomes completely immersed within the reality of the game.\n\n\"Better Than Life\" is a game which allows the user to live out all their fantasies and desires. When in the game, one has the ability to mentally command into existence any object, person or environment.\n\nThe problem with the game in the TV series, however, is that it also detects subconscious desires: if the user subconsciously hates himself then the game will eventually detect this and subject them to specifically tailored masochistic tortures.\n\nTotal Immersion Video Games - though not specifically \"Better Than Life\" - are later encountered in the Series 5 episode 'Back to Reality', in which a group hallucination makes the \"Dwarf\" crew believe that the previous four years had been a video game fantasy. Another game in Series 7 allowed the crew to have tea with the characters of Pride And Prejudice, showing that not all of the Immersion games are dangerous: many of which are often played by Lister just to fulfill his sexual fantasies.\n\n\"Better Than Life\" plays an important role in the two novels \"\" and \"Red Dwarf: Better Than Life\". The novel version of the game has far greater abilities and far greater bugs. Unlike the TV series, which is based on the original, nonaddictive version, and is only briefly mentioned in the novel, the novel version causes the user's imagination to develop semi-plausible explanations for certain events. For instance, in early versions of Better Than Life, the user could make a large, expensive car appear out of thin air. In the books, the user's imagination would create a scenario where they won the lottery, or created a successful business, so they could buy the car.\n\nThe danger of the game is that once the user starts to play, the game forces them to forget they actually started to play, so they believe that they are still in reality. Their conscious mind only perceives the reality of the game, and all signals from their real body, except for those of extreme pain, are completely ignored.\n\nThe game fulfils fantasies you don't even know you have. A person like the Cat, who has such a huge ego that he truly believes he deserves everything, will get everything he desires, regardless of how outlandish - he built himself a huge castle with a moat filled with milk, and surrounded himself with adoring Amazonian women who catered to his every desire. However a person like Rimmer, arrogant and filled with self-loathing, will build themselves up just to destroy themselves utterly, over and over again. Rimmer gave himself money, fame, and a stunningly beautiful wife - who was abusive and humiliatingly unfaithful. He then placed himself in a scenario where all his stocks abruptly crashed, he lost all of his money, his body was repossessed, and he was forced to occupy a female prostitute's body, then dragged into hiding from the law, experiencing verbal, physical and sexual abuse at the hands of violent criminals, and finally pimped out by them, as well as coming to realise that his idea of the perfect woman - the woman he was in fact engaged to - was the spitting image of his own mother. Lister on the other hand had a fantasy far more mature and healthy than those of the others, just needing somebody he loved who would love him in return and the ability to live quietly but comfortably. Unfortunately Rimmer's presence in the game even resulted in his and the Cat's fantasies being crushed, giving them no reason to stay.\n\nThe game can even trap mechanoids by playing on their desire for devoted servitude. While Kryten didn't forget that he was playing the game, he kept finding himself distracted when the game continually offered him the exact chores that he had been created to carry out.\n\nIn a shared game, a player cannot leave unless all the players agree to leave. Unless cared for in the real world, a user (or \"Game Head\") dies very quickly. While it is certainly possible for friends to forcibly remove the headset that contains the game, this results in instant death from shock. The only way to exit the game is to figure out that you're playing the game, develop the desire to leave it and then command an exit - followed by the final level, which involves the player \"believing\" that they have woken up, and requires them to realise that this is also artificial because, again, it is Better Than Life.\n\n\n\n\nRob Grant and Doug Naylor began collaborating on a sequel under the title \"The Last Human\". During the writing of the novel, the two decided to split their partnership, Grant Naylor Productions. Still contracted to write two more Red Dwarf novels, they decided to each write one. For his novel, Doug Naylor renamed it \"Last Human\" and set it onboard \"Starbug\" featuring Kristine Kochanski as a new cremember. Grant's Red Dwarf novel, \"Backwards\", released in 1996, would be a direct sequel to the ending of \"Better Than Life\" with the beginning consisting of the crew waiting for Lister at Niagara Falls.\n"}
{"id": "1858058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858058", "title": "Linda Lee Cadwell", "text": "Linda Lee Cadwell\n\nLinda Lee Cadwell (; March 21, 1945) is an American teacher, martial artist, and writer. Lee Cadwell's life was twice hit by tragedy since she is the widow of martial arts master and actor Bruce Lee (19401973) and the mother of actor Brandon Lee (19651993) who was accidentally shot on the set of \"The Crow\" (1994).\n\nShe was born in Everett, Washington, the daughter of Vivian R. (Hester) and Everett Emery. Her family was Baptist and of Swedish, Irish, and English descent. She met Bruce Lee while she was attending Garfield High School, where Bruce came to give a kung fu demonstration; he was attending the University of Washington at the time. Eventually, she became one of his kung fu students when she was attending the University of Washington, studying to become a teacher.\n\nShe took lessons from Lee while attending college. They married on August 17, 1964. Linda was a few credits short from graduation. They had two children, Brandon Lee and Shannon Lee. Bruce Lee had opened his own kung fu school at the time and was teaching Wing Chun, which would later serve as the basis for Jeet Kune Do. He died suddenly on July 20, 1973, of an allergic reaction to an analgesic.\n\nLinda married Tom Bleecker in 1988, and they divorced in 1990. She later wed stockbroker Bruce Cadwell in 1991 and they lived in Rancho Mirage, California.\n\nSomewhere between 1984 and 1990, Lee Cadwell and her son Brandon, who at the time started his acting career, had a meeting with Marvel CEO Margaret Loesch through Stan Lee (no relation). Stan Lee felt that Brandon would be ideal for the casting of super-hero Shang-Chi in a film or television adaptation of his adventures. The project, however, did not go ahead, and Brandon instead followed in the steps of his father by performing in lead roles in action films. On March 31, 1993, a second tragedy struck the life of Lee Cadwell when her son Brandon was accidentally shot to death by a prop gun while filming \"The Crow\".\n\nCadwell has continued to promote Bruce Lee's martial art Jeet Kune Do. She retired in 2001, and her daughter Shannon (who now heads the Lee family estate), together with son-in-law Ian Keasler, run the Bruce Lee Foundation, a nonprofit organization dedicated to teaching Bruce Lee's philosophy on martial arts and his writing on philosophy.\n\nCadwell wrote the 1975 book \"\" (), on which the 1993 feature film \"\" was based. She was portrayed by actress Lauren Holly in the film adaptation. She also wrote the 1989 book \"The Bruce Lee Story\" ().\n\n"}
{"id": "1858059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858059", "title": "Iain Tennant", "text": "Iain Tennant\n\nSir Iain Mark Tennant (11 March 191925 September 2006) was a Scottish businessman.\n\nBorn in North Berwick, the only son of John Edward Tennant and Georgina Helen Kirkpatrick, he was educated at Eton College and Magdalene College, Cambridge. He served in Egypt with the 2nd Battalion, Scots Guards from 1940 to 1942, and was an intelligence officer with 201 Guards' Brigade. He was captured at the surrender of Tobruk and was a prisoner of war in Italy and Germany until 1945. In 1946 he married Lady Margaret Helen Isla Marion Ogilvy (1920-2014), daughter of Colonel David Ogilvy, 12th Earl of Airlie in Westminster. and had a two sons and a daughter; unfortunately one son died before his death in 2006. One of his daughters, Emma, married Sir Jocelyn Stevens.\n\nTennant's business appointments include Chairman of Grampian Television from 1968 to 1989 (he was Vice-Chairman from 1960 to 1968), Director of Caledonian Associated Cinemas from 1950 to 1990; Director of Clydesdale Bank from 1969 to 1989; Director of Abbey National Building Society; and Honorary Director with Seagram Co Ltd; Chairman of Glenlivet and Glen Grant Distilleries Ltd; and was Chairman of the Board of Gordonstoun School from 1957 to 1972.\n\nTennant was a Member of the Royal Company of Archers since 1950. He was a Deputy Lieutenant of Moray in 1954, alongside Kenneth Mackessack. He was Lord Lieutenant of Moray from 1963 to 1994, Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1988 and 1989, and Crown Estate Commissioner for Scotland from 1970 to 1990. He was appointed a Knight of the Thistle in 1986. He also served on Moray and Nairn County Council from 1956 to 1964. He was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts.\n"}
{"id": "1858061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858061", "title": "Roger Wolff", "text": "Roger Wolff\n\nRoger Francis Wolff (April 10, 1911 – March 23, 1994) was a professional baseball player. A right-handed knuckleball pitcher, he played for seven seasons in Major League Baseball from 1941-47: three seasons with the Philadelphia Athletics, three seasons with the Washington Senators, and one season split between the Cleveland Indians and the Pittsburgh Pirates.\n\nWolff's career win-loss record was 52-69 with an earned run average of 3.41. The best season of his career was the 1945 season, when he went 20-10 with a 2.12 ERA (striking out 108 and walking 53) for the Washington Senators. He also had an extensive minor league baseball career, starting in 1930 and ending with his Pirates stint in 1947.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858068", "title": "Eastern Highlands Province", "text": "Eastern Highlands Province\n\nEastern Highlands is a highlands province of Papua New Guinea. The provincial capital is Goroka. The province covers an area of 11,157 km², and has a population of 579,825 (2011 census). The province shares a common administrative boundary with Madang Province to the north, Morobe Province to the east, Gulf Province to the south, and Simbu Province to the west. The province is the home of the Asaro mud mask that is displayed at shows and festivals within the province and in the country. It is reachable by air and road transport.\n\nEastern Highlands Province is made up of rugged mountain terrain and broad valleys. It has low coastal areas in the Markham and Ramu valleys. The Province's two highest peaks, Mt Tabletop and Mt Michael are located on Kratke and Bismarck Range respectively. They rise at a height of more than 3,000 metres above sea level. Specifically, Mt Michael is situated 3750 metres above sea level while Mt Tabletop is at 3,686 metres.\n\nAsaro and Lamari rivers both flow into the Purari which is one of PNG's five major river systems. The Yonki Hydro-Power Station is fed by the Ramu river.\n\nThe Province is entered through the Kassam Pass and exited to other Highlands provinces at Daulo Pass. Kassam Pass has views of the Markham and Ramu valleys, while Daulo Pass has views of Goroka's green valleys.\n\nEach province in Papua New Guinea has one or more districts, and each district has one or more Local Level Government (LLG) areas. For census purposes, the LLG areas are subdivided into wards and those into census units.\n\nMonthly rainfall follows a seasonal pattern with a wet season from December to early April having mean monthly rainfalls of about 203 mm to 305 mm. A dry season follows, with monthly falls in the general range of 51 mm to 102 mm. The months of April–May and October–November tend to be transitional.\n\nTemperature ranges are more equal. At Goroka the maximum temperature for whole year is 26 °C.\n\nAt Goroka, mean humidity varies from 87% at 09:00 hours to 57% at 15:00 hours. Associated with this typical cycling of cloud movement found in the Highlands in the early morning valley slopes and bottom are submerged in fog with high hills and ranges protruding into clear sunlight. As the day progresses the fog lifts from the valleys and clouds begin to form on the ranges frequently with associated local convectional storms. Towards the evening the cloud extends from the ranges to the valleys and with cooling sinks to valley bottoms. This cycle of afternoon cloud and storm on the ranges and morning fog in the valley bottoms, where airstrips are located, makes the maintenance of flight schedules difficult.\n\nGrasslands dominate a broad area of land especially in the valleys which are predominantly inhabited by people. This is a result of continuous burning and excessive use of the land to do gardening.\n\nSecondary forests and shrub regrowth formed in primary forest locations, which takes longer to grow due to continuous burning.\n\nAt higher altitudes as in Bismarck and Kratke ranges, the vegetation type is mountain rainforest dominated by beech forest and pandanus species. At much higher altitude over 3,000 metres, alpine grassland and moss forest are common vegetation type. At lower altitude (1,500 metres or less) especially towards border areas of coastal provinces where there is very high rainfall and humidity, lowland rainforest is found. The vegetation type is very diverse and heterogeneous in species composition and is home to a diverse range of exotic flora and fauna.\n\n\nEastern Highland Province had a population of 432,972 (PNG citizens) and 1,173 (non-citizens) in the 2000 Census. This is an increase of 31% since the 1990 Census figure.\n\nThe province makes up 8.3% of the PNG population, which is the fourth highest population in the country after Southern Highlands, Morobe and Western Highlands provinces.\n\nThe population distribution among the eight districts of the province ranges from Obura/Wonenara with the lowest population of 29,688 to Kainantu with the highest population of 1. The capital of the province, Goroka town has an urban population of 19,523 which is 27% of the Goroka District population of 71,870. The other major town of the province, Kainantu town, has an urban population of 6,788. About 94% of the population live in the rural areas.\n\nThe population density of the province is 38 persons per square kilometre, with an average household size of 1.4 persons.\n\nThe average annual growth rate of the province has increased significantly, from 0.8% between 1980 and 1990, to 3.6% between 1990 and 2000. This was slightly higher than the national average annual growth rate of 3.6% between 1990 and 2000. This is slightly higher than the national average annual growth rate of 3.2% for the same period. With such a population growth rate, the province can expect to have around half a million people in the next five years.\n\n44% of the population are literate (males having higher literacy rates). 69% of the population are married. More women married than men (72%–65%). 95% of the population are church-goers. 38% are Seventh Day Adventists, 30% Evangelical Lutherans, 12% Pentecostals and 6% Evangelical Alliance.\n\n\nThere are approximately 21 languages in the Eastern Highlands. These include:\n\nEastern Highlanders attend to their food gardens and livestock while the educated individuals find work in the cities or towns. Intermarriage by Eastern Highlanders to people of other provinces and cultures is a common trend. There are many people from all over the country and expatriates who have made this province their home either because of work or marriage.\n\nTraditional housing is built in a circular or rectangular shape. The walls are weaved from pit pit canes or bamboo. They are built low to keep the interior warm from the cold climate and the high thatched roof keeps the smoke away from the inhabitants. Cooking and sleeping is done in this communal, open-space living arrangement. Traditional homes today use a touch of modern influence and style, with the inclusion of windows and rooms.\n\nThere are various ways in which traditional cooking is done, either by using bamboos, roasting sweet potatoes in the open fire or the ground oven style of cooking called \"mumu\".\nVegetable gardening and tending to livestock are very important to the village people as these are their source of wealth and identity. Vegetables and livestock are given as contribution during funerals, marriages and other festivities.\n\nAt traditional wedding ceremonies, the groom's relatives give money, food and other gifts to the bride's relatives. This bride price is an act of buying the bride from her family, who now has responsibilities looking after her husband's relatives. Today's weddings have a combination of modern and traditional styles, a church wedding and payment of bride price before or after the wedding.\n\nAs with any other transitional society, (moving from traditional times to suddenly be competing in the 21st century, on the free market), the Eastern Highlands has witnessed its fair share of law and order problems. Most problems stem from the fact that the majority of the youth are not engaged in gainful employment or other productive activity. Most problems relate to petty theft and pick-pocketing. Visitors are therefore advised to leave all valuables in their hotel deposit safe And further carry minimal valuables on person whilst moving about. When traveling on PMVs or to unknown areas, visitors should speak to officers at the nearest police station for a status report on their destination.\n\nTribal fighting in the region of Gimi has been going on since 1986, many of the clashes arising over claims of sorcery. In November 2008, it was reported that in Agibu and Amosa villages women had agreed that if they stopped producing males, allowing only female babies to survive, their tribe's stock of boys would go down and there would be no men in future to fight. They agreed to have all newborn male babies killed. It is not known how many male babies were killed, but it had reportedly happened to all males over a 10-year period and probably was still happening.\n\nGoroka has the J.K. McCarthy Museum that specialises in historical Highlands artifacts and information, The Raun Raun Theatre who are the national traditional performing arts troupe, National Sports Institute, the Papua New Guinea Institute of Medical Research, which researches health-related diseases and experiment to find new vaccines for these diseases.\n\nDue to its location along the Highlands Highway, the province is a regional trucking centre, having one of the Highlands region's major trucking company's operating in Goroka. The East-West Trucking company freights cargo and provides service to the entire region. Apart from that, there are other private trucking firms that freight cargo.\n\nThe province's economy lies in the production and export of coffee, which provides the economic backbone and livelihood for all Eastern Highlanders. Leading exporters of coffee based in the province are PNG Coffee Exports and New Guinea Highlands Coffee Exports as well as ground coffee manufacturers Goroka Coffee Roasters, Kongo Coffee and Arabicas Ltd. The Coffee Industry Corporation headquarters is in Goroka.\n\nThe country's largest hydropower station is in Yonki, Kainantu, and others like the Kainantu pottery and wool rugs and a new gold mine in Bilimoia has commenced construction.\n\nAiyura valley is home to stations that research methods of planting and livestock breeding in the Highlands region. Research stations include the National Agriculture Research Institute, Coffee Research Institute and the Highlands Fisheries. Aiyura National High School is a part of the valley, including the Summer Institute of Linguistics in Ukarumpa who specialise in translating Bibles into the languages in the country and provide literacy and linguistic training.\n\nThe economic state of the Eastern Highlands Province has declined with the economic situation of the country. In addition, the deteriorated infrastructure of the province hinders economic growth.\n\nThe province derives most of its revenue from the production of coffee. Eastern Highlands is the leading producer of coffee in the region. It produces large quantities of coffee annually for export. Almost all rural households in the province own a small plot of coffee as a family project.\n\nMany families supplement their income by engaging in small agricultural and livestock businesses. The introduction of vanilla, wheat and rice has had a huge impact on agricultural enthusiasts throughout the province. Rice and wheat is being grown for own consumption and/or selling while the vanilla is sold to the international market. Pigs, rabbits and especially chickens are readily farmed while fresh vegetables are grown for the local and national markets.\n\nThere are approximately 250 primary schools in the Province plus 11 high schools and 1 national high school. They are run by the church or belong to the government.\n\nThe University of Goroka — one of PNG's national universities, established as an education college of the University of Papua New Guinea — is in Goroka. It produces qualified teachers for high schools, secondary schools and national high schools throughout the country including students from neighbouring Pacific Islands.\n\nThe province was governed by a decentralised provincial administration, headed by a Premier, from 1977 to 1995. Following reforms taking effect that year, the national government reassumed some powers, and the role of Premier was replaced by a position of Governor, to be held by the winner of the province-wide seat in the National Parliament of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe province and each district is represented by a Member of the National Parliament. There is one provincial electorate and each district is an open electorate.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858072", "title": "Rizal Shrine (Intramuros)", "text": "Rizal Shrine (Intramuros)\n\nThe Rizal Shrine in Intramuros () is a museum dedicated to the lifework of José Rizal. It is located on Santa Clara Street, Fort Santiago, Intramuros, Manila, Philippines. Fort Santiago served as barracks for Spanish artillery soldiers during Spain's colonization of the islands. The museum is located in the building where Rizal spent his final night and hid his famous poem \"Mi último adiós\" (My Last Farewell) in an oil lamp later given to his sister, Trinidad. The shrine is home to various memorabilia such as the shells he collected in Dapitan, books, manuscripts and artwork.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858074", "title": "Zhou Yongkang", "text": "Zhou Yongkang\n\nZhou Yongkang (born December 1942) is a former senior leader of the Communist Party of China (CPC). He was a member of the 17th Politburo Standing Committee (PSC), China's highest decision-making body, and the Secretary of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission (\"Zhengfawei\") between 2007 and 2012, making him one of the most powerful leaders in China. In that position, Zhou oversaw China's security apparatus and law enforcement institutions, with power stretching into courts, prosecution agencies, police forces, paramilitary forces, and intelligence organs. He was convicted of corruption-related charges in 2014 and expelled from the CPC.\n\nZhou rose through the ranks of the Communist Party through his involvement in the oil and gas industry, starting as a technician on the Daqing oil field during the Cultural Revolution. He was at the helm of the China National Petroleum Corporation between 1996 and 1998, then became Minister of Land and Natural Resources until 1999, and subsequently Party Secretary of Sichuan, then China's second most populous province. Zhou was a State Councilor of the State Council from 2003 to 2008 and also a member of the Party Secretariat of the Central Committee. He served as the Minister of Public Security from 2002–07, before being promoted to the PSC. Zhou retired at the 18th Party Congress in 2012.\n\nIn late 2013, Zhou was placed under investigation for alleged abuse of power and corruption, a decision state media announced in July 2014. Zhou was the first Politburo Standing Committee member – and the most senior-ranked official – since the founding of the People's Republic of China to be tried and convicted of corruption-related charges. Following his investigation, Zhou was expelled from the Communist Party of China. On June 11, 2015, Zhou was convicted of bribery, abuse of power and the intentional disclosure of state secrets by the Intermediate Court in Tianjin. Zhou and his family members were said to have taken 129 million yuan (over $20 million) in bribes. He was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nBorn Zhou Yuangen () in December 1942, Zhou is a native of Xiqiantou Village (西前头村), Wuxi County, in Jiangsu province. Xiqiantou is located outside Wuxi city proper. The majority of Xiqiantou residents were surnamed \"Zhou\". Zhou took on the surname of his mother because his father, whose surname was Lu, was a 'live-in son-in-law' of his maternal grandparents. Upon joining the Zhou household when he married, Zhou Yongkang's father took on his wife's surname and became known as Zhou Yisheng (周义生). Zhou was the eldest of three sons. Zhou's family was poor; his family made a living farming and fishing the Asian swamp eel. Zhou was sent to school with the financial assistance of his family friends. In 1954, Zhou was enrolled at one of the two top middle schools in the eastern Wuxi area. It was during this period that Zhou changed his name to \"Yongkang\" on the advice of his teacher, because there was another person in his class with an identical name.\n\nZhou excelled at school, and was eventually accepted to enroll at the prestigious Suzhou High School, one of the most prominent secondary schools in the Jiangnan region. Zhou had good grades and was involved in extra-curricular activities, including the school's political ideology group as well as the events promoting literacy. In 1961, after obtaining stellar results on his \"Gaokao\" exams, he was admitted to the Beijing Institute of Petroleum (now China University of Petroleum) soon after, and became the pride of his village. He majored in geophysical survey and exploration.\n\nIn November 1964 Zhou became a member of the Communist Party of China. In 1966, the Cultural Revolution ensnared Beijing's higher education institutions. Zhou was told by the authorities to \"wait for an assignment\" while the political struggles wreaked havoc on China's universities. He waited for a year. He joined geological survey work in north-east China in 1967, assigned to become an intern technician at factory No. 673 at the Daqing oil field. In 1970, Zhou was promoted to lead the geological survey division of a local department charged with carrying out an ambitious petroleum drilling initiative set out by the Party's top leadership.\n\nIn 1973, Zhou Yongkang was promoted to head the Geophysical Exploration Department of the Liaohe Petroleum Exploration Bureau, located in Panjin, Liaoning. Liaohe would eventually become one of the China National Petroleum Corporation's (CNPC) largest oil fields. Zhou was seen as a hard-working and emotionally mature presence to his colleagues; he did not drink or smoke, and would rarely speak based on script. He would reputedly talk unscripted for hours on end while keeping his colleagues engaged.\n\nAt Liaohe, Zhou met Wang Shuhua (), a factory worker from Hebei province, whom he later married. As the Liaohe exploration team grew, Zhou eventually became responsible for over 2,300 employees in his department. His work consisted mainly of leading teams to unexplored, barren territory to conduct site surveys to assess the potential for future oil drilling. He was known to be great at maintaining good interpersonal relationships with his superiors and subordinates, and gained significant personal clout. During some years, Zhou did not go back to his home in Jiangsu even during the Chinese New Year holiday period, which is a time traditionally reserved for family reunions. Instead, Zhou would visit his colleagues who were working in harsh winter conditions in remote areas. Beginning in the 1970s, Zhou would gain rapid career advancement. He owed much of his career growth to his mentors from the Beijing Institute of Petroleum, who were working in executive positions at the Liaohe oil fields at the time. In particular the university's president was known to be fond of Zhou's skills and was eager to promote him. In 1983, with the director of the Liaohe Oil Field Management Bureau being transferred for a job in Beijing, Zhou was promoted to manage day-to-day affairs of the oil field. Moreover, given the oil field's prominence in the municipal affairs of the city of Panjin, Zhou became concurrently the Mayor of Panjin and the city's deputy party secretary. Zhou's stint as mayor was his first major role in government.\n\nIn 1985, Zhou Yongkang left Liaoning for Beijing to become the Deputy Minister of Petroleum Industry. In 1988, the ministry later folded and became a state-owned enterprise, the predecessor of the China National Petroleum Corporation (CNPC), China's largest energy company. Zhou became a member of the company's senior executive team and was named deputy general manager. In March 1989, as part of the government's overall strategy to move oil production from east to west, Zhou led an oil and gas exploration and survey team to begin work in the Tarim Basin in the Xinjiang region of far-west China, near the city of Korla.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, Zhou spearheaded CNPC's \"go global\" initiatives, winning bids for large projects in Sudan, Venezuela, and Kazakhstan. Zhou was particularly involved in the Sudan Nile petroleum project, including the construction of the Greater Nile Oil Pipeline, CNPC's first major project outside of China. Zhou travelled to the African country 14 times. Beginning in 1996, Zhou became general manager (chief executive) of the CNPC. As chief executive, Zhou was instrumental in the company's restructuring and the preparation the initial public offering of the company's subsidiary PetroChina. In October 1997, Zhou gained a seat on the Central Committee of the Communist Party, a leadership assembly of some 200 top political figures of the party.\n\nIn March 1998, Zhou was elevated to become Minister of Land and Resources in Premier Zhu Rongji's cabinet. The \"mega-ministry\" was created after a merger of the formerly separate Ministry of Geology and Mining, Administration of National Land, National Administration of Oceans, and the National Surveying and Mapping Bureau. As minister, Zhou, upon finding that his staff did not have adequate housing, initiated a housing construction program for the department's engineers and senior technical staff.\n\nIn 1999, Zhou became Party Secretary of Sichuan, the province's top political office. Sichuan was China's second most populous province at the time. Prior to Zhou, most of Sichuan's provincial leaders originated from the province. Zhou, an outsider, brought change to the province's political landscape. He spearheaded economic modernization policies and in particular focused on agricultural modernization. Sichuan was known to be a province highly dependent on agriculture, and its government operated at a slower pace compared to those of China's coastal regions. Zhou was known for his quick and efficient decision-making, significantly altering the traditionally lax culture of the province's civil service.\n\nDuring Zhou's tenure in Sichuan, the province's GDP grew at an average rate of 9.5% a year. One of his major achievements was securing investment from large multinationals such as Intel. The company opened a new computer chip factory near Chengdu shortly after Zhou left his post in Sichuan. He also focused on improving tourism resources, significantly revamping the Mount Emei scenic region to attract more visitors. Zhou also improved public safety in the province, for example enacting policies that aimed to reduce accidents in the province's water lanes. On October 20, 2000, in the spirit of attracting investment for economic development, Zhou hosted visiting Chinese and international dignitaries and businesspeople at the China Western Forum held in Chengdu.\n\nWhile in Sichuan, he gained a reputation for dealing firmly with any signs of dissent – coming down hard on Tibetan groups and Falun Gong.\n\nAlthough Zhou left Sichuan to take up national leadership positions in Beijing in 2002, he cultivated a strong power base of patronage. The elite provincial political circles were stacked with Zhou allies, the most notable being deputy provincial party chief Li Chongxi, Chengdu party boss Li Chuncheng, and chief administrator Guo Yongxiang. Indeed, Zhou's network of patronage in Sichuan remained a highly influential force in provincial politics until the anti-corruption campaign of 2013, which saw all of Zhou's proteges fall from grace.\n\nZhou's political fate was subject to rife speculation in the lead-up to the 16th Party Congress held in the fall of 2002. Widely regarded as a rising political star, Zhou was said to be a leading candidate for Vice-Premier or entry into the top ranks of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission (\"Zhengfawei\"). The central government was also in need of a tough and uncompromising figure to take reins of China's security system in the post-9/11 global security paradigm. With his quasi-military style training in the oil sector and a reputation for being able to make tough decisions, Zhou got the nod to become Minister of Public Security in December 2002. He also earned a series of powerful posts in the party and government within the span of a few months, including membership in the Politburo, State Councilor, Deputy \"Zhengfawei\" Secretary, First Political Commissar of the People's Armed Police (China's paramilitary police force), and Secretary of the party's Central Secretariat (the party's internal policy execution and coordination body).\n\nZhou's assuming the deputy secretary position at the \"Zhengfawei\" meant that his status in the Chinese domestic security system was second only to Politburo Standing Committee member Luo Gan. Zhou was the first Minister of Public Security to hold a Politburo seat since Mao's successor Hua Guofeng, a testament to the renewed importance of the domestic security portfolio. This was partially attributed to the increasingly sharp social conflict in China as a result of the wealth imbalance created by the post-Mao era economic reform policies. At the turn of the century, \"mass incidents\" – a catch-all euphemism that could refer to any organized or spontaneous protests of social, political, economic, or religious nature – had become commonplace across the country. In response, Beijing mandated sweeping structural reforms that significantly elevated the status of Public Security organs across the country.\n\nSomewhat emulating Zhou's concurrently holding party and government posts in addition to his role as Minister of Public Security, the reforms carried out during Zhou's tenure called for provincial and local police chiefs (i.e., heads of Public Security organs) to also hold membership in local party leadership councils as well as leading government posts, and, more importantly, hold a leading post in the \"Zhengfawei\". The intent of the reforms were to make decisions about policing, investigations, and the court system more efficient in an era of more pronounced social conflict. However, in practice the reforms gave party and government policy makers, who were not constitutionally empowered to serve day-to-day executive duties, an avenue to directly intervene in domestic security concerns, such as using force to crack down on \"mass incidents\". In addition, that the \"Zhengfawei\", which normally oversaw government \"policy\" in the courts, prosecution agencies, criminal legislation, paramilitary forces, and internal intelligence services, had combined jurisdiction over \"executive\" police organs meant that \"Zhengfawei\" chiefs held immense and largely unchecked legislative, executive, and judicial power.\n\nAs Minister of Public Security, Zhou was seen as China's \"national police chief\". He undertook significant reforms of the country's policing system, which not only faced external pressures from a deteriorating domestic security situation, but also internal dissent due to stagnant wages and lack of resources. Zhou set out mandating the construction of new office buildings to serve as police headquarters, provided modern housing for officers. He also implemented a wide array of disciplinary regulations, including making offenses such as using firearms outside of work duties, drinking and driving, and gambling during work hours causes for dismissal. He was also said to have fired several hundred police officers for drinking problems.\n\nZhou held high-profile \"mass study sessions\" in an attempt to indoctrinate officers politically on party policies. He also instituted a nationwide \"professional training boot camp\" intended to streamline police operations and teach officers about professional ethics, making it mandatory for rank-and-file officers to take \"professional training\" for half of their working day. Zhou also began a national campaign for \"xinfang\" petitioners to \"speak directly with the police chief\", aimed at creating a more effective means to address petitioner grievances. As part of this campaign, the number of petitions and their response rates were tied to financial and career advancement consequences for local officials. As a result, many local authorities hired thugs and private security firms to detain, harass, beat, or otherwise discourage petitioners from filing their grievances. It spawned an entire industry of private security firms specializing in petitioners, as well as an increase in the number of extrajudicial detention centres known as \"black jails\". With increased resources at the disposal of police departments and a higher concentration of power, law enforcement agencies often found itself at odds with public interest; public trust in domestic security organs eroded.\n\nZhou's time as the top official in Sichuan, the oil sector, and Public Security Minister earned him significant leadership experience and personal clout, as well as a complex network of patronage. In 2007, Zhou was transferred to fill the vacancy from Luo Gan, who retired from his leadership position as central \"Zhengfawei\" chief. With this powerful position, Zhou also gained a spot on the Politburo Standing Committee, the highest council of Communist Party rulers. With the expansion of \"Zhengfawei\" authority in the preceding years, Zhou became the top official responsible for China's courts, law enforcement, prosecution agencies, paramilitary forces, and domestic intelligence agencies. Even though he was ranked ninth in the party leadership hierarchy, Zhou, dubbed China's \"security tsar\" by select English-language media, emerged as one of the Standing Committee's most important members, and one of China's most powerful men.\n\nIn his position as national \"Zhengfawei\" chief, Zhou oversaw extensive security preparations for the 2008 Beijing Olympics, the 60th anniversary celebrations of the founding of the People's Republic of China in 2009, and Expo 2010 in Shanghai. At around this time, \"\"weiwen\"\" (维稳; roughly, \"protecting stability\") became a top political priority of the Chinese government. Zhou headed the national \"weiwen\" task force, overseeing law enforcement, suppression of dissent, state surveillance, and combating separatist movements in Xinjiang and Tibet. By 2011, during the unfolding of Arab Spring and the subsequent \"Jasmine Revolution\" movement, the national \"weiwen\" budget, valued at 624.4 billion yuan (US$95 billion), had exceeded the military budget for the first time in history.\n\nOn February 20, 2011, Zhou said to assembled officials at a national security conference that law enforcement must \"put together a comprehensive system to prevent disturbance and control social order, so that conflict can be resolved at the embryonic stage.\" In that year, some 130,000 \"mass incidents\" of protest and violence were reported around the country, mostly caused by official corruption, environmental degradation, and social security issues. Incidences of police brutality increased, and in many cases police involvement in popular protests exacerbated underlying problems and led to further violence. Towards the end of his term, Zhou presided over a national security & law enforcement system that operated with no meaningful external oversight and operating independently from government organs and the party's collective leadership. As a result of his vast state security \"empire\" as well as strong remnants of his influence in the national oil sector and Sichuan, Zhou was ranked 29th in the 2011 \"Forbes\" list of the world's most powerful people.\n\nChinese rights activists, such as members of the \"Weiquan\" movement, were especially critical of Zhou's tenure as China's security chief. Civil rights lawyer Pu Zhiqiang criticized Zhou in a public lecture at Hong Kong University in December 2011. Two years later, Pu wrote on his microblog that Zhou \"brought great disaster and inflicted great suffering on the country and its people.\" Pu wrote that the \"weiwen\" policies spearheaded by Zhou had severely undermined progress in the protection of human rights and rule of law, led to unprecedented levels of popular distrust of government authority, expanded the realm of party control in the lives of ordinary citizens, and ran counter to the spirit of the \"Harmonious Society\" ideology of the Hu-Wen administration. Former State Council functionary Yu Meisun (俞梅荪) said that Zhou's ten years in power were the \"ten darkest years for law and order in history [...] a severe reversal of progress.\"\n\nSeveral leaked U.S. diplomatic cables from Wikileaks have alleged Zhou's involvement in Beijing's cyber attack against Google, though the claim's veracity has been questioned. Other cables said it was \"well-known\" that Zhou Yongkang controlled the state monopoly of the oil sector. Zhou also served as China's 'high representative' in matters relating to North Korea, attending the Arirang Festival as a guest of Kim Jong-il before Kim died in 2011.\n\nIn February 2012, former Chongqing police chief Wang Lijun made an abrupt and unexpected visit to the United States consulate in the city of Chengdu. The event set off a political storm which eventually resulted in the ouster of Chongqing party chief Bo Xilai. Bo, considered a political ally of Zhou, was rumoured to be next-in-line to Zhou's powerful position of Legal and Political Committee (\"Zhengfawei\") Secretary, and thus the Standing Committee. Zhou had a close relationship with Bo, and he was reportedly acquainted with Wang Lijun as far back as his early days as mayor of Panjin. On Zhou's 2010 visit to Chongqing, he publicly endorsed Bo's \"Red Songs\" and \"Strike Black\" campaigns (), showing enthusiasm for the so-called \"Chongqing model\" unmatched by his other Standing Committee colleagues. Zhou lauded Bo's heavy-handed approach to reduce crime in the city, and praised Bo's style of state-driven, populist \"mass movements\" which had some characteristics of a Maoist-style political campaign. In March, the Standing Committee moved to remove Bo from his positions as a result of Bo being implicated in the Wang Lijun scandal, a decision which Zhou alone was said to have resisted.\n\nIn the days following Bo Xilai's fall, rumours circulated about Zhou's break with the party leadership as well as a \"coup d'etat\" on March 19. Unconfirmed reports surfaced on the U.K.-based \"Sunday Times\", citing Hong Kong magazine \"Frontline\" (), that the paramilitary forces under Zhou's disposal had narrowly avoided direct conflict with the 38th Army in the center of Beijing. Outwardly, Zhou appeared to be toeing the party line between March 2012 and his scheduled retirement in November. For example, several days after Bo Xilai was suspended from the Politburo, Zhou held a national conference call with police officials, publicly declaring, \"police officers must [...] understand what political position they need to take, maintain the correct political course, and always remain in line with the party centre led by comrade Hu Jintao as its General Secretary.\"\n\nOn May 14, 2012, the \"Financial Times\" reported that Zhou had relinquished the operational control of the party's Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission to Minister of Public Security Meng Jianzhu due to his support for Bo Xilai, and had lost his right to select his successor when he retires from the Politburo Standing Committee in the fall of 2012. The \"New York Times\" later reported that Zhou's status remained unchanged. At around the same time, a group of provincial party veterans from Yunnan province penned an open letter to Hu Jintao calling for the removal of Zhou Yongkang due to his support of Bo Xilai. The veterans voiced concerns that those supporting Bo intended to reinstate Mao-style policies in China.\n\nZhou retired at the 18th Party Congress held in November 2012, an event which saw Xi Jinping ascend to become General Secretary of the Communist Party of China, China's top leader. In a significant change to China's top ruling council, Zhou's Political and Legal Affairs Commission portfolio did not feature in the new Standing Committee at all; instead, the Committee had shrunk to its pre-2002 size of seven instead of nine members. This was followed by wide-ranging reforms to local \"Zhengfawei\" organs. For example, the practice of lower-level \"Zhengfawei\" chiefs concurrently holding the office of police chief (i.e. Public Security) and concurrent government posts was gradually phased out, and the \"Zhengfawei\" was discouraged from directly interfering with on-going investigations or cases. These reforms signaled a reduction in the executive authority of \"Zhengfawei\" chiefs in favour of better checks and balances in the legal system, and a restoration of the \"Zhengfawei\" in a policy oversight role rather than being an executive organ, which had been the case under Zhou.\n\nIn 2013, Zhou appeared in public three times. He visited his alma maters, Suzhou High School and the China University of Petroleum in April and October, respectively; on June 23, Zhou visited the Zibo, Shandong-based Qilu Petrochemicals Company (), a subsidiary of Sinopec. His visit to Suzhou High School also marked his final pilgrimage to his hometown. During this visit, Zhou suggested that it might be his last visit home. At his visit to the China University of Petroleum campus, Zhou publicly 'pledged his allegiance' to Xi Jinping, China's new leader, rallying students to unite behind Xi to pursue the \"Chinese Dream\".\n\nThe new party leadership under Xi reportedly began planning the crackdown on Zhou beginning in 2012. Xi's 'tough talk' on corruption began immediately after his ascension to the post of General Secretary. In his first days in office, Xi vowed to crack down on \"tigers and flies\", meaning extremely powerful officials as well as petty ones. Xi moved quickly to set a new standard for expected behavior of party officials, issuing a series of guidelines to clean up the party bureaucracy. Xi may have also been concerned that Zhou might use his influence and power to turn various state security entities into tools for advancing his interests, and in the process undermine the central authority of the state.\n\nDiscussions surrounding the Zhou case took place in the summer of 2013. In June, the Politburo of the Communist Party of China held a four-day-long conference in Beijing specifically to discuss Zhou Yongkang. During the meeting the members of China's ruling council reportedly exchanged differing viewpoints on Zhou. Eventually Xi Jinping and the other six members of the newly formed 18th Politburo Standing Committee came to consensus to investigate Zhou.\n\nZhou's case was unprecedented, as no corruption investigation had ever been initiated against a member of the elite Politburo Standing Committee. The last PSC member to be ousted politically was Zhao Ziyang in the aftermath of Tiananmen in 1989, and the last PSC members to be put on trial were those of the Gang of Four following the Cultural Revolution.\n\nOwing to the far-reaching impact Zhou's case would have on the party as well as the potential for intra-party conflict, Xi also reportedly sought the blessing of former General Secretary Jiang Zemin and Hu Jintao as well as other 'party elders'. Jiang was said to have met with Xi several times in Beijing between June and July to discuss Zhou Yongkang. During these meetings, Xi was said to have directly elaborated to Jiang on Zhou's alleged crimes, as well as convincing Jiang of the potential harm to the party and the state if Zhou were not brought down. Jiang, though initially reluctant, eventually threw his weight behind Xi. Jiang subsequently applauded Xi's leadership skills during a visit by former U.S. Secretary of State Henry Kissinger. Hu Jintao was reportedly fully supportive of investigating Zhou prior to the power transition to Xi Jinping at the 18th Party Congress. Zhou himself reportedly sought two audiences with Xi, during which he discussed his contributions to the country and attempted to plead clemency, to no avail.\n\nIn August 2013, the Party began a corruption investigation into Zhou. A number of Zhou's former subordinates who were then in high-ranking positions were sacked in quick succession. These included Li Chuncheng, a former deputy party secretary in Sichuan; Jiang Jiemin, former chief executive of China Petroleum; Li Dongsheng, former deputy minister of Public Security; Ji Wenlin, Mayor of Haikou and Zhou's former secretary; and Li Chongxi, a high-ranking official in Sichuan province. His former secretaries (i.e., directors of his office, chief of staff) Li Hualin, Shen Dingcheng, and Guo Yongxiang were all detained.\n\nIn December, Zhou, his son Zhou Bin and his daughter-in-law Huang Wan were taken into custody. The home of Zhou's younger brother Zhou Yuanxing () was searched by the authorities twice. Yuanxing died in December 2013 after a battle with cancer. Zhou Yongkang and his son Zhou Bin were not present at the funeral, fuelling speculation that Zhou and his family members were all in custody.\n\nZhou's family reportedly made billions of dollars by investing in the oil industry, of which Zhou had headed the largest company, China National Petroleum Corp. According to the Hong Kong-based \"Apple Daily\", Zhou's eldest son made more than US$1.6 billion from public works in the city of Chongqing alone. He also supposedly used his father's prominence to extort millions of dollars in protection fees from various businesses and organizations.\n\nZhou was reportedly being held in confinement without visitation rights in a heavily guarded facility on a military base near Baotou, Inner Mongolia.\n\nBy March 2014, Chinese authorities were reported to have seized assets worth at least 90 billion yuan ($14.5 billion) from Zhou's family members and associates.\n\nBy Spring 2014, it became increasingly clear that Zhou's spheres of influence – the oil sector, Sichuan, the legal system, and his family members – were being methodically rounded up for investigation. However, in the absence of any official reports on Zhou himself, Chinese and international media became rife with speculation about his fate. At a press conference during the March 2014 national meeting of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference, a reporter from Hong Kong-based \"South China Morning Post\" directly asked the spokesperson if he could provide more information on the rumours circulating about the Zhou Yongkang case. In response, the spokesman chuckled and said, \"like you, I've seen some stories on a select few media outlets,\" he then recited a prepared party-line reply, then ended off his response with a smile, \"this is really all I can say in response to your question, I think you know what I mean.\" () Afterwards the assembled press gallery burst into laughter.\n\nOn July 29, 2014, state media formally announced an internal party investigation against Zhou Yongkang's \"violations of party discipline\", but did not mention any criminal wrongdoing. Several months later, the party investigation concluded that Zhou abused his power for the illicit gain of his family, friends, and associates, took \"large amounts in bribes personally and through his family and associates; abused his power to further the interests of his family, mistresses, and associates; committed adultery with multiple women and engaged in the exchange of money and favours for sex; and leaked state and party secrets.\" State media announced Zhou's arrest to face criminal proceedings on December 5, 2014. He was expelled from the Communist Party of China. Zhou was the first Politburo Standing Committee member to be expelled from the party since the fall of the Gang of Four in 1980 at the conclusion of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nAfter the announcement of Zhou's expulsion from the party, the party's official newspaper \"People's Daily\" editorialized that Zhou's expulsion was part of the \"strong resolve\" to stamp out corruption in the party by General Secretary Xi Jinping. The editorial said the case demonstrated that the party saw \"everyone as equal in the eyes of the law.\" It said that Zhou \"betrayed the essence and mission of the party\" and that \"corruption in the party is like fire and water.\" Media outlets outside of mainland China speculated about the political reasons behind Zhou's downfall. \"The Economist\" compared Zhou's fall with earlier internecine struggles in the party and noted Xi's anti-corruption campaign had \"apparent factional bias\", quoting a study that no \"Princelings\" have been investigated in the anti-corruption campaign. He Pin (何频), the chief editor of the overseas Chinese news portal \"Mingjing\", went one step further and asserted plainly that Zhou fell because he was engaged in a political conspiracy to depose Xi Jinping.\n\nIn contrast, \"The New York Times\" did not speculate on political reasons behind Zhou's arrest, simply writing that ordinary Chinese people may be alarmed that the legal system was once under the hands of a deeply corrupt politician. \"Duowei Times\" expressed disappointment with mainstream Western media characterization of the event as \"yet another political purge\", asserting that seeing modern China, particularly the post-Xi Communist Party, as rife with political intrigue and full of backroom deals is imprecise and naive. \"Duowei\" stated that Western media had a very poor grasp of what Xi was actually trying to achieve, and that Zhou's downfall was but a small element of a larger campaign by Xi Jinping to clean up the party, institutionalize power structures, and re-build the party's legitimacy.\n\nAccording to \"The New Yorker\" profile of Xi, \"corruption had become so threatening to the Party’s legitimacy that only the most isolated leader could have avoided forcing it back to a more manageable level, but railing against corruption was also a proven instrument for political consolidation, and at the highest levels Xi has deployed it largely against his opponents. Geremie Barme, the historian who heads the Australian Centre on China in the World, analyzed the forty-eight most high-profile arrests, and discovered that none of them were second-generation reds.\"\n\nIn the days leading up to the anticipated trial, Supreme Court President Zhou Qiang (no relation) told an assembled international press conference that Zhou Yongkang's trial would be \"open and in accordance with the law.\" In April 2015, Zhou Yongkang was formally charged with abuse of power, bribery, and intentionally leaking state secrets, and scheduled to face trial at the Tianjin First Intermediate People's Court. Overseas Chinese media was rife with speculation about the 'treatment' Zhou was to receive. However, Zhou's trial unexpectedly took place behind closed doors. On June 11, state media made an announcement – without any apparent warning – that Zhou's verdict had already been reached. The official report on Zhou's trial was brief, and stated that he had been convicted on all three charges. The legal sentence, according to the state, was life in prison for bribery, seven years for abuse of power, and four years for \"leaking state secrets.\" The court decided that Zhou could serve prison terms concurrently and amalgamated the sentences into one 'combined' life sentence. The total value of bribes taken by Zhou and his family was said to be 129.7 million yuan (~$18.87 million). State television showed Zhou pleading guilty with a head of fully gray hair, in contrast to his combed jet black hair dye he was known for prior to his retirement.\n\nOverseas media had compared Zhou's trial to that of Bo Xilai two years earlier, which was noted for being unusually open. In contrast to Bo, Zhou did not appear to dispute his charges. Bo, for the most part, denied his guilt and blamed much of the misdeeds he was accused of on his associates and his family. Zhou, on the other hand, said that \"they tried to bribe my family, but really they were after my power. I should assume major responsibility for this.\" State-run news agency Xinhua said that the trial took place in secret because state secrets involved in the case. However, it was also likely that Zhou's trial was not open to the public as a result of the sensitivity of the subject matter and its political implications. Observers also cited that the Bo trial became \"out of control\" as Bo made many shocking revelations during the deliberation of his trial which became tabloid fodder and led to many rumours circulating on social media, making the authorities more risk averse to do the same with Zhou.\n\nZhou's son Zhou Bin absconded to the US in early 2013, and returned after negotiations with Chinese authorities. In June 2016, Zhou Bin was found guilty of taking 222 million yuan ($34m) in bribes and illegally trading in restricted commodities, and 350 million yuan ($53m) of illicit gains were confiscated; Zhou's wife, Jia Xiaoyue, was fined 1m yuan ($150,000) for bribe-taking. Zhou son and wife were sentenced to 18 years and 9 years imprisonment respectively.\n\nZhou Yongkang has two sons, Zhou Bin () and Zhou Han (), with his first wife, Wang Shuhua (), whom he met while working in the oilfields of Liaoning province. Wang has been described as a plain, hardworking woman who devoted much of her time to family and raising their two children. The couple had cordial relations while Zhou was at the Liaohe oil field, but the marriage later deteriorated. Zhou was said to be a workaholic on the oil fields, often working into the morning hours and sleeping in his office. Wang died in a motor vehicle collision in 2001, reportedly one of the vehicles involved had military license plates; the cause of the crash was unclear. In 2013, overseas Chinese news websites \"Mingjing\" and \"Boxun\" both reported that Zhou Yongkang had conspired with his secretary to kill Wang. The credibility of these reports has been questioned.\n\nAfter Wang died, Zhou married Jia Xiaoye (, also been written as ), a former reporter and television producer at CCTV-2, who is 28 years his junior. According to the autobiography of Shen Bing, Zhou and Jia wed at a small, tense private ceremony; no photos were allowed to be taken. Jia continued to maintain a low profile following their wedding; she did not appear at any official functions with Zhou. Indeed, the first official mention of Jia Xiaoye in her capacity as Zhou's wife was during the latter's sentencing announcement in June 2015.\n\nZhou's son, Zhou Bin, born in 1972, was a prominent oil and gas executive who ostensibly used his father's connections to further his own business interests. The younger Zhou was the primary shareholder and Chairman of Beijing Zhongxu Yangguang Energy Technology Holdings Ltd. Zhou Bin was investigated, tried, and sentenced to 18 years in prison. The younger Zhou is married to Chinese-American Huang Wan (), whom he met while studying oil and gas exploration in Texas. Huang's mother, Zhan Minli (), held a stake in a number of companies with business dealings with China National Petroleum and lives in southern California. Zhou's younger son, Zhou Han, maintains a comparatively lower profile, and was not close to his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858081", "title": "Walbury Hill", "text": "Walbury Hill\n\nWalbury Hill is a hill in Berkshire, England. At above sea level, it is the highest hill in Berkshire and the highest natural point in South East England (West Berkshire being a constituent part of this region), higher than Leith Hill in Surrey.\n\nWalbury Hill is the starting point for both the Test Way and the Wayfarer's Walk footpaths. It is in a southwest corner of the county, on a ridge extending into Hampshire and Wiltshire, around southeast of the town of Hungerford. It is part of the Kirby House estate, owned by the Astor family.\n\nOn the hill's summit is the Iron Age hill fort of Walbury Camp. Combe Gibbet stands on the adjoining Gallows Down. There is also a small low-level circular brick building, approximately 6 feet (1.8 metres) high, on the south side of the hill. This appears to be a disused reservoir.\n\nThe true summit is marked by a triangulation pillar approximately from the main Test Way. Before the use of satellites was commonplace, Walbury Hill was occasionally used by the BBC as a temporary relay station during the Newbury Races. There is no metalled road across the hill, but the byway is open to all traffic and maintained with a hard gravel surface, because of its previous use by outside broadcast vehicles. The ridged summit is also popular with paragliding enthusiasts.\n\nIt is one of three nationally important chalk wild grasslands in the North Wessex Downs, the others being Rushmore and Conholt Downs (SSSI) and part of Hog's Hole (SSSI).\n"}
{"id": "1858083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858083", "title": "Adeline Yen Mah", "text": "Adeline Yen Mah\n\nAdeline Yen Mah () is a Chinese-American author and physician. She grew up in Tianjin, Shanghai and Hong Kong, and is known for her autobiography \"Falling Leaves\". She is married to Professor Robert A. Mah with whom she has a daughter, and a son from a previous marriage.\n\nAdeline Yen Mah was born in Tianjin, Republic of China on 30November 1937 to Joseph Yen (Yen Tse-Rung), a businessman, and Ren Yong-ping, an accountant. She had an older sister called Lydia (Jun-pei) and three older brothers, Gregory (Zi-jie), Edgar (Zi-lin), and James (Zi-jun). She has stated in \"Falling Leaves\" that she did not use the real names of her siblings and their spouses to protect their identities but she did, however, use the real names of her father, stepmother, aunt and husband, while referring to her paternal grandparents only by the Chinese terms 'Ye Ye' and 'Nai Nai' .\n\nYen Mah also writes of her Ye Ye's younger sister (Yan Shuzhen), whom she calls either 'Grand Aunt' or 'Grand Uncle Gong Gong', and cites as founder and president of the Shanghai Women's Commercial and Savings Bank.\n\nWhen Yen Mah was a year old in 1938, Joseph Yen married a half-French, half-Chinese (Eurasian) 17-year-old girl named Jeanne Virginie Prosperi. The children referred to her as \"Niang\" (娘 \"niáng\", another Chinese term for mother), and she is called so throughout the whole book. They had two children, Franklin and Susan (Jun-qing).\n\nHer legal birthday is 30 November, as her father did not record her date of birth and instead he gave her his own (a common practice prior to the establishment of the People's Republic of China in 1949). Two weeks after her birth, her mother died of puerperal fever and according to traditional Chinese beliefs, Yen Mah was called 'bad luck' by the rest of her family and because of this, treated harshly throughout her childhood.\n\nAfter the death of Ye Ye, Yen Mah's father (Joseph) and stepmother (Niang) moved from Tianjin to Shanghai to a house along Avenue Joffre; Yen Mah and her full siblings joined them at the house afterward. Two months later, her Aunt Baba and Susan arrived (the former two delayed moving to observe the hundred days' mourning period for Ye Ye). When Susan arrived, she was too young and too close to Aunt Baba to recognise and like her mother, Niang, who thus beat her soundly in frustration. Yen Mah intervened, leading Niang to declare that she would never forgive her.\n\nThe Yen family later moved to Hong Kong when Yen Mah was eleven, and she transferred to Sacred Heart School and Orphanage (Sacred Heart Canossian College). At the age of fourteen, as her autobiography states, Yen Mah won a playwriting competition for her work \"Gone With the Locusts\", and her father allowed her to study in England with James.\n\nYen Mah left for the United Kingdom in August 1952, and studied medicine at the London Hospital Medical School, eventually establishing a medical practice in California. Before the start of her career in the United States, she had a brief relationship with a man named Karl, and practised medicine in a Hong Kong hospital at the behest of her father, who refused to give her air fare when she expressed plans to move to America. She has stated in an interview with the \"South China Morning Post\" that her father wanted her to become an obstetrician in the belief that women wanted treatment only from a female doctor, but as she hated obstetrics she became an anaesthesiologist instead.\n\nHer autobiography, \"Falling Leaves\", was published in 1997, shortly after Jung Chang's memoir \"Wild Swans\". It made the New York Times Bestseller list, selling over a million copies worldwide and translated into twenty two languages. Beginning with her traumatic childhood under her stepmother's cruelty, it goes on to recount how, after Joseph Yen died, Prosperi had prevented his children from reading his will until her own death two years later. When the wills were read, Yen Mah had apparently been disinherited. The success of \"Falling Leaves\" prompted Yen Mah to quit medicine and devote her time to writing.\n\n\"Falling Leaves\" was translated into Chinese for the Taiwan market. It was titled \"Luoyeguigen\" (T: 落葉歸根, S: 落叶归根, P: \"Luòyèguīgēn\"). Unlike other cases of memoirs, the novel was translated by the original writer.\n\nHer second work, \"Chinese Cinderella\", was an abridged version of her autobiography (until she leaves to England), and has sold over one million copies worldwide. It received numerous awards, including \nThe Children's Literature Council of Southern California in 2000 for Compelling Autobiography; and the Lamplighter's Award from National Christian School Association for Contribution to Exceptional Children's Literature in June 2002.\n\nPublished in 2001, her third book, \"Watching the Tree\", is about Chinese philosophy and traditional beliefs (including Traditional Chinese Medicine). \"A Thousand Pieces of Gold\" was published in 2002, and looks at events under the Qin and Han dynasties through Chinese proverbs and their origins in Sima Qian's history, \"Shiji\".\n\nYen Mah has written three further books for children and young adults. \"Chinese Cinderella and the Secret Dragon Society\", her first fiction work, is based on events in World War II, and \"Along the River\", another fictional book based on Chinese history. \"China, Land of Dragons and Emperors\" is a non-fiction history book for young adults.\n\nIn 2004, Yen Mah was voted fourth on the New Zealand children's best seller lists.\n\nAdeline Yen Mah is Founder and President of the Falling Leaves Foundation, whose mission is \"to promote understanding between East and West\" and provides funds for the study of Chinese history, language, and culture. There is also a website dedicated to teaching Chinese over the Internet for free, and the foundation has established a poetry prize at UCLA. In 2013, she created an iPad game, PinYinPal, for learning Mandarin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858086", "title": "Slovak Airlines", "text": "Slovak Airlines\n\nSlovak Airlines (Slovenské aerolínie a.s.) was an airline based in Bratislava, Slovakia. It was the flag carrier of the Slovak Republic operating a scheduled service to Moscow and to Brussels. It also offered international charter flights to Bulgaria, Cyprus, Greece, Italy, Russia, Spain, Tunisia, and Turkey. The company also ran wet-lease operations. Its main base was M. R. Štefánik Airport, Bratislava.\n\nThe airline ceased operations in February 2007.\n\nThe airline was established on 24 June 1995 and started operations in May 1998. It was founded by Viliam Veteška and a group of private investors. In January 2005 Austrian Airlines acquired the majority stake (62%) in the company. Slovak Airlines ceased operations after Austrian Airlines repossessed two aircraft having withdrawn financial support in January 2007. The company filed for bankruptcy on 2 March 2007. Large portion of employees and offices was taken over by the now-defunct Seagle Air.\n\nThe airline flew scheduled services from Bratislava to Brussels (7 weekly, codeshare with Austrian, Fokker 100) and Moscow Sheremetyevo (4 weekly, codeshare Aeroflot, Fokker 100).\n\nIn 2006 the airline flew the following charter flights from Bratislava (with Boeing 737-300):\n\n\nAnd from Košice (with Boeing 737-300):\n\n\nThe airline also flew for Italian travel agencies a weekly Brescia - Rhodos service with the Boeing 737 - 300 aircraft. The smaller 100-seat Fokker 100 was used on the following charter flights for Greek travel agencies: Bratislava - Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki - Chania, Chios, Kos, Rhodos, Samos, Santorini.\n\nAt the time it ceased operations in 2007 the Slovak Airlines fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\n\nPreviously used aircraft\n\n"}
{"id": "1858088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858088", "title": "William Smellie (obstetrician)", "text": "William Smellie (obstetrician)\n\nWilliam Smellie (5 February 1697 – 5 March 1763) was a Scottish obstetrician and medical instructor who practiced and taught primarily in London. One of the first prominent male midwives in Britain, he designed an improved version of the obstetrical forceps, established safer delivery practices, and through his teaching and writing helped make obstetrics more scientifically based. He is often called the \"father of British midwifery\".\n\nSmellie was born on 5 February 1697 in the town of Lesmahagow, Scotland. He was the only child of Sara Kennedy (1657–1727) and Archibald Smellie (1663/4–1735), a merchant and burgess of the town.\n\nSmellie practiced medicine before getting a license, opening an apothecary in 1720 in Lanark. It was not a particularly lucrative venture, as he also sold cloth as a side business to supplement his income, but he began reading medical books and teaching himself obstetrics at this time. By 1728, he was married to Eupham Borland, who was seven years his senior. In 1733 he was accepted as a member of the Faculty of Physicians and Surgeons in Glasgow. In 1739, after studying midwifery in Paris for a brief period, he established a practice and a pharmacy in London. In 1741 he began presenting obstetrics lectures and demonstrations to medical students and midwives. This practice proved far more successful than his first one, and Smellie made a name for himself in London. He then enrolled at the University of Glasgow and received his MD degree in 1745.\n\nSmellie's work helped make obstetrics more scientifically-based. He invented a \"machine\" – an obstetrical manikin – for instructing his students. It essentially functioned as a model of the birthing process, and would nowadays be referred to as a \"phantom\". While not an original idea, the phantom was far more accurate than previous models and allowed him to visually demonstrate midwifing techniques.\nHe also designed an improved version of the obstetrical forceps, which had been recently revealed after the midwifing Chamberlen family had kept it secret for generations. He publicized the use of these instruments although he promoted natural birth as the best method of delivery due to its less invasive nature. In his new version of the forceps, Smellie shortened and curved the blades and included a locking mechanism. In addition, he described the mechanism of labour, devised a maneuver to deliver the head of a breech, and published his teachings. He was the first person to document the natural birthing process and detailed the method by which the head of the child exited the female pelvis.\n\nSmellie challenged the commonly accepted concept of saving the mother over the child in times of complication. Through the introduction of forceps in the field of obstetrics, more delicate maneuvers could be performed and therefore obstetricians were able to equally weigh the life of the mother and child when complications did arise and were more often able to resolve the problem and save both. He was the first recorded figure to be able to resuscitate an infant after lung collapse and describe in detail uterine dystocia.\n\nSmellie was highly respected as a teacher as well as a midwife. Ten years after establishing his London practice, Smellie had 900 pupils and had delivered 280 lecture courses. His students did not gain any certification or fulfill medical training requirements by attending his courses, but came seeking to enhance their knowledge. As a teacher, Smellie tried to provide his students with live demonstrations to go along with course lectures. Consequently, he offered free midwifing services to patients if they allowed his students to observe the birthing process. This led to a more general practice of medical students attending births as a part of their medical training.\n\nOne of his students, William Hunter, went on to become a well-known obstetrician and served as the physician of Queen Charlotte, wife of King George III. Unlike Hunter, Smellie was able to gain prestige and success without connections to highly reputable individuals in society. Through his humble background, Smellie was able to gain great acclaim through his interest in obstetrics and as an innovator of medical instruments and reference literature.\n\nSmellie's work was not without opposition. At the time, midwifery was a female-dominated profession. Most female midwives argued that it was inappropriate for men to assist women with childbirth, and many patients agreed. However, Smellie's work helped begin the shift of obstetrics from the work of women with some degree of experience to a medical field practiced largely by trained male physicians and surgeons.\n\nSmellie taught and midwifed until 1759, in which year he retired and returned to his hometown of Lanark. He passed his practice on to Dr. John Harvie, who had married Smellie's niece. In retirement, Smellie had a residence built which he called Smellom Hall, and focused on compiling and refining his findings into books, including the last volume of \"A Treatise on the Theory and Practice of Midwifery\". He died at the age of 66 on 5 March 1763, in time to finish his book but not to see it published. The tomb in which Smellie (and later his wife) was buried still stands in the St Kentigern's section of the state-run Lanark graveyard.\n\nIn 1828, Harvie donated a portrait of Smellie to the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Smellie most likely painted this portrait himself in 1719.\n\nIn 1948 the Lockhart Hospital in Lanark opened a maternity department; by 1955 the entire hospital was given over to maternity services and the hospital was renamed the William Smellie Memorial Hospital. In 1992 the hospital closed and the maternity department, still called after William Smellie, was transferred to the Law Hospital in Carluke. In 2001 this unit closed and maternity services were moved to Wishaw General Hospital.\n\nIn 2010, the self-described historian Don Shelton questioned the methods by which Smellie performed his research. In the \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" he suggested that Smellie and his collaborator and later competitor William Hunter were responsible for multiple murders of pregnant women in order to gain access to corpses for anatomical dissection and physiological experimentation. Due to the inadequate match between supply and demand of corpses, scientists had to find other means, often requiring illegal methods, to obtain access. Shelton proposed that these two physicians used what would later be named \"burking\", after murderer William Burke, who killed 16 people in collusion with William Hare, selling the bodies to anatomist Dr. Robert Knox. He indicated that grave robbing was not a sufficient method by which obstetricians could access the specific type of tissue required for testing and dissection. In 1755, there was questioning of Smellie's access to corpses. Many of the accusations came from competitors, and fearing trial and even execution, Smellie stopped his work for several years in an effort to quash the suspicion that had been raised.\n\nShelton's supposition was criticized by a number of medical historians who pointed out that already in 1761 Peter Camper indicated that the figures in Smellie's \"A Sett of Anatomical Tables\" \"were not all from real life\", and very likely other methods than murder were available to obtain bodies of recently-died pregnant women at that time.\n\nHelen King indicated that the response of the media and the internet to Shelton's publication \"raised fresh questions about how medical history is generated, presented and evaluated in the media and, in particular, on the internet\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858091", "title": "List of Dempsey and Makepeace episodes", "text": "List of Dempsey and Makepeace episodes\n\nThe following is a list of episodes from the British television series \"Dempsey and Makepeace\". It ran for three series between 11 January 1985 and 1 November 1986. A total of 30 episodes were produced. The series was devised by Tony Wharmby who also produced the first two series. The third was produced by Ranald Graham. The series was produced by LWT in a joint venture with Golden Eagle films and originally transmitted in the UK on ITV.\n\nRegular cast: Michael Brandon as Lt. James Dempsey, Glynis Barber as Det. Sgt. Harriet Makepeace, Ray Smith as Chief Supt. Gordon Spikings, Tony Osoba as Det. Sgt. Chas Jarvis\n"}
{"id": "1858092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858092", "title": "William Smellie (encyclopedist)", "text": "William Smellie (encyclopedist)\n\nWilliam Smellie (1740–1795) was a Scottish printer who edited the first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\". He was also a naturalist and antiquary, who was joint founder of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, co-founder of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, and a friend of Robert Burns.\n\nHe was born in The Pleasance, in south-east Edinburgh in 1740, the son of Alexander Smellie, architect and master builder, and of his wife, Jean Robertson. He was educated at Duddingston School then Edinburgh High School.\n\nSmellie left school at 12 to years old to be apprenticed as a printer to Hamilton, Balfour & Neill in 1752. During this time he was promoted to the subeditorial position corrector of the press, and won his firm the Edinburgh Philosophical Society’s prize for the most accurately printed edition of a Latin text.\n\nOn completion of his apprenticeship he joined the firm of Murray & Cochran as a corrector for the \"Scots Magazine\". He spent three hours per day in the evenings studying at extramural classes at the University of Edinburgh. In 1760 he founded the Newtonian Club, a sub-section of the Edinburgh Philosophical Society. He was also a joint founder of the Royal Society of Edinburgh.\n\nOn 27 March 1763 he married Jean Robertson in London.\n\nIn 1765 he was awarded a gold medal for his dissertation on the sexes of plants, which contradicted the theories of the Swedish botanist Carolus Linnaeus. \n\nAt the age of 28, Smellie was hired by Colin Macfarquhar and Andrew Bell to edit the first edition of the \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", which appeared in 100 weekly instalments (\"numbers\") from December 1768 to 1771. It was a masterful composition although, by Smellie's own admission, he borrowed liberally from many authors of his day, such as Voltaire, Benjamin Franklin, Alexander Pope and Samuel Johnson. Nevertheless, the first edition of the \"Britannica\" contained gross inaccuracies and fanciful speculations; for example, it states that excess use of tobacco could cause neurodegeneration, \"drying up the brain to a little black lump consisting of mere membranes\".\n\nSmellie strove to make \"Britannica\" as usable as possible, saying that \"utility ought to be the principal intention of every publication. Wherever this intention does not plainly appear, neither the books nor their authors have the smallest claim to the approbation of mankind\".\n\nSmellie entertained strong opinions; for example, he defines farriery as \"the art of curing the diseases of horses. The practice of this useful art has been hitherto almost entirely confined to a set of men who are totally ignorant of anatomy, and the general principles of medicine.\"\n\nAlthough possessed of wide knowledge, Smellie was not an expert in all matters; for example, his article on \"Woman\" has but four words: \"the female of man.\" Despite its incompleteness and inaccuracies, Smellie's vivid prose and the easy navigation of the first edition led to strong demand for a second; some prurient engravings by Andrew Bell (later censored by King George III) may also have contributed to the success of the first edition.\n\nSmellie did not participate in the second edition of the \"Britannica\", because he objected to the inclusion of biographical articles in an encyclopedia dedicated to the arts and sciences.\n\nAt the time of his hiring, Smellie edited a weekly called the \"Scots Journal\", which made him familiar with the editing and publication of a work in parts. He went on to print and edit the Edinburgh Weekly Journal as joint owner with William Auld, and was co-owner, editor, and contributor to the Edinburgh Magazine and Review. He printed and edited \"Domestic Medicine: or, a Treatise on the Prevention and Cure of Diseases by Regimen and Simple Medicines\" by William Buchan in 1769. He also edited the first transactions of the Society of Antiquaries of Scotland, which were published in 1792. \n\nSmellie is also noted for his English translation of the famous \"Histoire Naturelle\" of the French naturalist Georges-Louis Leclerc, Comte de Buffon. \n\nIn 1779, Smellie was nominated to be the University of Edinburgh's professor of natural history; however, the post was awarded to Dr. John Walker, allegedly due to politics.\n\nIn 1781 Smellie was made keeper and superintendent of the Edinburgh Museum of Natural History.\n\nFrom 1782 he had William Creech as his business partner.\n\nSmellie continued to publish a wide variety of works, including his two-volume \"Philosophy of Natural History\", which became a set text at Harvard University in the 19th century, and at least two of the four-volume set of \"Thesaurus medicus: sive, disputationum, in Academia Edinensi, ad rem medicam pertinentium, a collegio instituto ad hoc usque tempus, delectu\" which reprinted Edinburgh medical theses of the 18th century.\n\nIn his \"Philosophy of Natural History\" he described the struggle for existence. He has been described as a \"precursor of Darwin\".\n\nHis printing office stood at the foot of Anchor Close off the Royal Mile (on a site now on East Market Street) and his house was on Gosford's Close nearby. Gosford's Close was pulled down when the city built George IV Bridge in 1830.\n\nHe died in Edinburgh on 24 June 1795 and is buried in Greyfriars Kirkyard just north of the Adam Mausoleum, south-west of the church.\n\nHe was well-acquainted with Robert Burns. Burns' assessment is engraved on Smellie's tombstone: \"Here lies a man who did honour to human nature\". Burns also described him fondly in a letter as \"that old Veteran in Genius, Wit and Bawdry\".\n\nPapers from Smellie's archive, including his correspondence and manuscripts, are held by the Library of the National Museum of Scotland.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858094", "title": "Robert Wade", "text": "Robert Wade\n\nRobert Wade, Bob Wade or Bobby Wade may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1858099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858099", "title": "Isabelle of France (saint)", "text": "Isabelle of France (saint)\n\nIsabelle of France (March 1225 – 23 February 1270) was a French princess, the daughter of Louis VIII of France and Blanche of Castile. She was a younger sister of King Louis IX of France (Saint Louis) and of Alfonso, Count of Poitiers, and an older sister of King Charles I of Sicily. In 1256, she founded the nunnery of Longchamp in part of the Forest of Rouvray (now called the Bois de Boulogne), west of Paris. Isabelle consecrated her virginity and her entire life to God alone. She is honored as a saint by the Franciscan Order. Her feast day is 22 February.\n\nIsabelle's father died when she was two years old, and it was her mother, Blanche, who oversaw her education. She could read both Latin and the vernacular, and enjoyed tales of chivalry as well as devotional texts. While pursuing the traditional feminine interests such as embroidery, she took special pleasure in working on priestly vestments. As a child, she requested spiritual direction and became even more devoted to the Lord under the guidance of the Franciscans. By the papal bull of 26 May 1254, Pope Innocent IV allowed her to retain some Franciscan friars as her special confessors. She was even more devoted to the Franciscan Order than to her royal brother. \n\nBy virtue of the Treaty of Vendôme in March 1227, Isabelle was betrothed to Hugh, eldest son and heir of Hugh X of Lusignan, with the marriage contract being signed on June 1230; however, she refused to celebrate the formal wedding due to her fixed determination to remain a virgin, although she never became a nun. Later, she refused the hand of Conrad IV of Germany, son of Frederick II, Holy Roman Emperor, although pressed to accept by everyone, even by Innocent IV.\n\nAs Isabelle wished to found a community of \"Sorores minores\" (Sisters minor), her brother King Louis began in 1255 to acquire the necessary land in the Forest of Rouvray, not far from the Seine, west of Paris. On 10 June 1256, the first stone of the monastic church was laid. Pope Alexander IV gave his sanction on 2 February 1259 to the new Rule, which was composed especially for this monastery by Isabelle along with a team of Franciscan university masters including St. Bonaventure. The community was allowed to hold property. The monastery was named the Convent of the Humility of the Blessed Virgin. In the Rule the nuns were called the Sisters of the Humble Order of Servants of the Most Blessed Virgin Mary. The nuns were subject to the Friars Minor. Some of the first nuns came from the Poor Clare monastery in Reims. A revised version of the Rule was approved by Pope Urban IV on 27 July 1263, which granted preferred name of \"Sorores minores inclusae\", or Enclosed Sisters minor, for the nuns of Longchamp.\n\nIsabelle never joined the community herself, but did live there in a room separate from the nuns' cells. Isabelle refused to become abbess, which allowed her to retain her wealth and resources, so she could support her abbey and continue to give to the poor. She kept a discipline of silence for most of her day.\n\nIsabelle died at Longchamp on 23 February 1270, and was buried in the abbey church. After nine days her body was exhumed; according to the religious legend, it showed no signs of decay, and many miracles were said to have been wrought at her grave. In 1521 Pope Leo X allowed the abbey to celebrate her feast day with a special Office. On 4 June 1637, a second exhumation took place. On 25 January 1688, the nuns obtained permission to celebrate her feast with an octave, and in 1696 the celebration of the feast on 31 August was permitted to the whole Franciscan Order by Pope Innocent XII.\n\nLongchamp Abbey was suppressed in the French Revolution. In 1794 the empty building was offered for sale, but, as no one wished to purchase it, it was destroyed. In 1857 the remaining walls were pulled down, except for one tower, and the land was incorporated into the Bois de Boulogne.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858100", "title": "Myyrmanni", "text": "Myyrmanni\n\nMyyrmanni is a shopping center located at the Myyrmäki suburb of Vantaa, Finland. The center was built in the early 1990s and it has over 90 stores and 1,100 parking spaces.\n\nFrom the center of Helsinki Myyrmanni is best reached by bus 411 or by P-train to Myyrmäki Station located next to the mall.\n\nMyyrmanni was the site of a bombing on October 11, 2002. 7 people were killed.\n\nIn 2010 the Mall attempted to improve the customer flow to the second floor as there were queues at the landscape lifts and the steel car lifts were ignored. Kone Lifts turned the Elevators into a Hall of Fame for the 'Incredibles' comic strip characters. Making their Elevators more attractive to the public solved the people flow problem. This practical case of service design thinking is used in literature as an example of extending products into services.\n"}
{"id": "1858101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858101", "title": "Aero Slovakia", "text": "Aero Slovakia\n\nAero Slovakia is an aviation company based in Slovakia offering a range of aviation services, including agriculture & forestry, patrolling & monitoring, photography and air taxi operations. The company has its head office on the grounds of Nitra Airport, Nitra. The airline employs 20 staff, under the command of Lubomir Kovacik.\n\nThe airline's fleet comprises 34 aircraft, including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858104", "title": "Königsberg-class cruiser (1927)", "text": "Königsberg-class cruiser (1927)\n\nThe \"Königsberg\" class, sometimes referred to as the K class, was a class of light cruisers of the German Reichsmarine and Kriegsmarine. The class comprised three ships named after German cities: \"Königsberg\", \"Karlsruhe\", and \"Köln\", all built between 1926 and 1930. These ships were the first of the Reichsmarine with a modern cruiser design; their predecessor, \"Emden\", was based on World War I-era designs. They were armed with a main battery of nine guns and with twelve torpedo tubes.\n\nAll three ships of the class were used extensively as training cruisers throughout the 1930s. They went on numerous overseas cruises and participated in the non-intervention patrols during the Spanish Civil War in 1936–1939. After the outbreak of World War II in September 1939, the three ships laid defensive minefields in the North Sea. They all saw action in Operation Weserübung, the invasion of Norway, in April 1940; \"Königsberg\" was damaged by Norwegian coastal guns outside Bergen and sunk by British bombers the following day. \"Karlsruhe\" was sunk by the British submarine ; only \"Köln\" survived the attack on Norway.\n\nAfter returning to Germany, \"Köln\" operated Flettner Fl 282 helicopters as an experiment. She provided gunfire support to German ground forces during Operation Barbarossa, the invasion of the Soviet Union in 1941, and returned to Norway in 1942. Ultimately, she was sunk in Wilhelmshaven in March 1945 by American bombers. Her guns were still above water, which allowed her to support the defending German army against British ground forces until the final days of the war.\n\nThe ships of the \"Königsberg\" class were long at the waterline and long overall. They had a beam of and a maximum draft of . They had a design displacement of and a standard displacement, as defined by the Washington Naval Treaty, of . They displaced at full load. The ships' hulls were constructed from longitudinal steel frames and incorporated extensive welding to save weight; up to 85 percent of the hulls were welded rather than riveted. The hull was divided into nineteen watertight compartments and had a double bottom that extended for 72 percent of the length of the hull.\n\nThe \"Königsberg\"-class cruisers had a standard crew of 21 officers and 493 enlisted men. This later increased to 23 officers and 588–591 enlisted men, and during World War II, the crew size rose to between 820 and 850 officers and men. The ships carried a number of smaller vessels, including two picket boats, two barges, two launches, one cutter, and one dinghy. The ships were moderately good sea boats, but had the potential to capsize if internal stores were improperly loaded, and suffered from a slight lee helm. They heeled up to twenty degrees with the rudder hard over. They were nevertheless very maneuverable and lost little speed in a head sea. In a hard turn, they lost up to 20 percent speed.\n\nIn the 1930s, all three members of the class were modified to carry a pair of float planes for reconnaissance. They were equipped with an aircraft catapult to launch the planes and cranes to recover them after they landed in the water. The ships initially carried two Heinkel He 60 biplane float planes, replaced later in the decade with two Arado Ar 196 monoplane float planes. Only one aircraft could be stored on the catapult at a time; the second plane had to be disassembled and placed in storage, and the ships did not have a hangar to store it in.\n\nTheir propulsion system consisted of four steam turbines and a pair of 10-cylinder four-stroke diesel engines. The turbines were split into three engine rooms, with the diesels in their own rooms directly aft of the turbines. Steam for the turbines was provided by six Marine-type double-ended oil-fired water-tube boilers. The engines powered a pair of three-bladed screws that were wide on the first two ships and in diameter on \"Köln\". The ships' propulsion system provided a top speed of and were rated at , though all three ships exceeded on speed trials. The ships carried of fuel oil as designed, but could store up to . This gave them a range of approximately at and at . Steering was controlled by a single rudder. The ships had three turbo-generators and two diesel generators for electricity; the generators had a combined output of at 220 Volts.\n\nThe ships were armed with nine 15 cm SK C/25 guns mounted in three triple gun turrets. One turret was located forward, and two were placed in a superfiring pair aft. The rear gun turrets were offset to increase their arc of fire. They were supplied with 1,080 rounds of ammunition, for 120 shells per gun. As built, the ships were also equipped with two 8.8 cm SK L/45 anti-aircraft guns in single mounts; they had 400 rounds of ammunition each. The \"Königsberg\" class also carried four triple torpedo tube mounts located amidships; they were supplied with twenty-four torpedoes, though these were replaced with models by 1940. The ships were also capable of carrying 120 naval mines.\n\nThe ships' anti-aircraft batteries were revised and improved throughout the course of their careers. The original single-mounted 8.8 cm guns were replaced with twin mounts for the new 8.8 cm SK C/32 guns and a third twin mount was also installed, bringing the number of guns to six. Eight 3.7 cm SK C/30 guns were installed in the mid-1930s and up to eight 2 cm Flak 30 guns were also added. \"Köln\", the only ship to survive to the end of the war, was ultimately armed with eight 3.7 cm and eighteen 2 cm guns, though provisions had been made to mount up to ten and twenty-four guns of the two calibers, respectively.\n\nThe ships were protected by an armored deck that was thick amidships and tapered down to on either end. They had an armored belt that was thick and capped with thick bulkheads on either end of the belt. Underwater protection consisted of a torpedo bulkhead and a 20 mm collision bulkhead. The conning tower had sides and a roof. The ships' gun turrets had 30 mm faces and 20 mm roofs, sides, and rears. The barbettes for the turrets were also 30 mm thick. \"Karlsruhe\" was later fitted with increased armor protection, consisting of a outer plating that consisted of the new \"Wotan weich\" steel, and an upper deck that was , also \"Wotan weich\".\n\nAll three ships of the \"Königsberg\" class served as training cruisers for naval cadets throughout the 1930s. They conducted numerous cruises in European waters, and both \"Karlsruhe\" and \"Köln\" traveled to other continents. They were all modified throughout the decade, and had their anti-aircraft armament repeatedly improved, along with other alterations. The three ships took part in the non-intervention patrols during the Spanish Civil War in 1936–1939, and after the outbreak of World War II in September 1939, they laid a series of defensive minefields in the North Sea.\n\nThe three ships then participated in Operation Weserübung, the invasion of Norway, in April 1940. \"Königsberg\" and \"Köln\" were assigned to the assault on Bergen, while \"Karlsruhe\" joined the attack on Kristiansand. \"Königsberg\" came under heavy fire from a battery outside Bergen, and was badly damaged; after the port was captured, she moved into harbor for temporary repairs. She was ordered to return to Germany, but was attacked the next morning by British bombers and hit by at least five bombs. She sank slowly enough for the majority of her crew to escape; there were only eighteen men killed in the attack.\n\n\"Karlsruhe\" meanwhile suppressed Norwegian coastal guns outside Kristiansand and successfully landed her contingent of ground troops. After \"Karlsruhe\" left port, the British submarine attacked the German cruiser and hit her with a pair of torpedoes. The torpedo hits knocked out \"Karlsruhe\"s power and thus prevented her crew from pumping out the water that was rapidly flooding the ship. Her crew was taken off by an escorting torpedo boat, which then fired a pair of torpedoes into the stricken cruiser to ensure she sank quickly.\n\n\"Köln\" was the only ship of the class to survive the operations off Norway. After returning to Germany, she was modified to serve as a testbed for the Flettner Fl 282 helicopter. She thereafter served in the Baltic, providing gunfire support to advancing German troops in 1941. In mid 1942, she returned to Norwegian waters, and unsuccessfully attempted to attack Convoy PQ 18 along with several other German warships. She was then ordered back to Germany, where she served in a variety of roles, including training ship and convoy escort, before again returning to Norway. She was damaged by British bombers in December 1944 and forced to return to Germany for repairs. While in dock in Wilhelmshaven in March 1945, she was attacked and sunk by American heavy bombers. She sank on an even keel, with her guns still above water, which permitted their use against advancing British forces until the final days of the war.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858106", "title": "Sarah Records discography", "text": "Sarah Records discography\n\nThe Sarah Records' catalogue consists of around a hundred items, each of which has a catalogue number. The items from Sarah 001 to Sarah 100 are mostly 7 inch singles. Exceptions are:\n\nSome of the 7\" singles were additionally available on CD. There are also seven 10 inch albums (Sarah 401 to 407) and 22 LPs (Sarah 601 to 622), some or all of which were also released on compact disc.\n\n\n10\" (all + CD except \"Lyceum\", \"Snowball\", \"Bacharach\")\n\n12\" (all + CD except \"Skywriting\", \"They've Scoffed The Lot\")\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858116", "title": "California bungalow", "text": "California bungalow\n\nCalifornia bungalow is an alternative name for the American Craftsman style of residential architecture, when it was applied to small-to-medium sized homes rather than the large \"ultimate bungalow\" houses of designers like Greene and Greene. California bungalows became popular in suburban neighborhoods across the United States, and to varying extents elsewhere, from around 1910 to 1939. \n\nBungalows are one or one and a half story houses, with sloping roofs and eaves with unenclosed rafters, and typically feature a dormer window (or an attic vent designed to look like one) over the main portion of the house. Ideally, bungalows are horizontal in massing, and are integrated with the earth by use of local materials and transitional plantings. This helps create the signature look most people associate with the California bungalow.\n\nBungalows commonly have wood shingle, horizontal siding or stucco exteriors, as well as brick or stone exterior chimneys and a partial-width front porch. Larger bungalows might have asymmetrical \"L\" shaped porches. The porches were often enclosed at a later date, in response to increased street noise. A \"California\" bungalow (except in Australia, see below) is not made of brick, but in other bungalows, most notably in the Chicago area, this is commonplace due in large part to the weather.\n\nA variation called the \"Airplane Bungalow\" has a much smaller area on its second floor, centered on the structure, and is thought to look like the cockpit of an early airplane.\n\nTrue bungalows do not include quarters for servants, and have a simple living room, entered directly from the front door, in place of parlors and sitting rooms, as well as a smaller kitchen. The focal point of the living room is the fireplace, and the living room often has a broad opening into a separate dining room.\n\nAll common areas are on the first floor with cozy atmospheres. Though the ceilings are lower than in homes of Victorian architecture, they often feature redwood beams and are usually higher than in ranches and other homes built later. Attics are located under the sloping roof.\n\nThe bungalow actually traces its origins to the Indian province of Bengal, the word itself derived from the Hindi \"bangla\" or house in Bengali style. The native thatched roof huts were adapted by the British, who built bungalows as houses for administrators and as summer retreats. Refined and popularized in California, many books list the first California house dubbed a bungalow as the one designed by the San Francisco architect A. Page Brown in the early 1890s. However, Brown's close friend, Joseph Worcester, designed a bungalow for himself and erected it atop a hill in Piedmont, across the bay from San Francisco, in 1877-78. The bungalow influenced Bernard Maybeck, Willis Polk and other San Francisco architects, and Jack London, who rented Worcester's house from 1902–03, called it a \"bungalow with a capital 'B.\n\nThe bungalow became popular because it met the needs of changing times in which the lower middle class were moving from apartments to private houses in great numbers. Bungalows were modest, inexpensive and low-profile. Before World War I, a bungalow could be built for as little as $900 although the price rose to around $3,500 after the war. Bungalow designs were spread by the practice of building from mail-order plans available from illustrated catalogs, sometimes with alterations based on local practice or conditions. A variety of firms offered precut homes, which were shipped by rail or ship and assembled on site. These were most common in locations without a strong existing construction industry, or for company towns, to be built in a short time. The majority of bungalows did include some elements of mass production; typically doors, windows, and built-in furnishings such as bookcases, desks, or folding beds were sourced from lumber yards or from catalogs.\n\nBungalows can be found in the older neighborhoods of most American cities. In fact, they were so popular for a time that many cities have what is called a \"Bungalow Belt\" of homes built in the 1920s. These neighborhoods were often clustered along streetcar lines as they extended into the suburbs. Bungalows were built in smaller groups than is typical today, often one to three at a time.\n\nExamples of neighborhoods in Southern California with a high concentration of California Bungalows include: Belmont Heights in Long Beach, the Wood Streets in Riverside, Bungalow Heaven, Highland Park in Los Angeles, and North Park (site of the proposed \"Dryden District\") in San Diego.\n\nSeparate from the main building, The Beverly Hills Hotel has 23 garden bungalows containing guests rooms and suites.\n\nExamples in other U.S. States include: the Avenues District in Salt Lake City; Midtown Columbus, Georgia; Virginia Highland and Candler Park, Atlanta; Houston Heights in Houston; Park Hill and Washington Park in Denver; Takoma Park, Maryland, and Takoma, Washington, D.C.; Cherrydale and other neighborhoods in Arlington County, Virginia; Del Ray in Alexandria, Virginia; Historic Kenwood in St. Petersburg, Florida; The Garden District in Baton Rouge, Louisiana; and the West University Neighborhood in Tucson, Arizona.\n\nThe Californian bungalow style was particularly popular in Australia from 1913 onwards. This period coincided with the rise of the Hollywood film industry, which popularised American clothes, furniture, cars and houses, and also with the increased importation of U.S. architectural magazines into Australia, a society which previously had been heavily influenced by British domestic styles.\n\n\"...the concept of the bungalow as a cheap and attractive form of permanent suburban housing for the masses was stimulated by a variety of economic and social factors.\" Timber versions of the bungalow were a low cost solution to shortages in housing and the California designs suited the growing suburbs of the larger cities in southern Australia. Having a similar climate to that of California the designs also reflected the requirements of Australians who needed to cater for relatively warm summers and mild winters.\n\nThe bungalow in Australia underwent regional adaptations, often being built in the local red brick in Melbourne and the local liver-coloured brick of Sydney, and in limestone in South Australia. The bungalow was also constructed out of timber – in tropical Queensland these were raised on high () stilts as the Ashgrovian Queenslander (the idea being to allow free movement of air in the hot climate). Key practitioners of the California bungalow style were Peddle and Thorp, Kenneth B. Milne, Alexander Stewart Jolly and Cedric Ballantyne. One of the outstanding examples was Jolly's \"Belvedere\" in the Sydney suburb of Cremorne. \"Belvedere\" is heritage-listed.\n\nThe Californian bungalow was also common in New Zealand during the latter 1910s and 1920s, and is credited with starting a trend towards bungalows and influencing new local styles of bungalow in New Zealand during the early decades of the 20th century.\n\nThe bungalow was so popular in California and Australia that very few houses were built in any other style during the 1920s. A range of other detailing influences, including Georgian Revival, Dutch Colonial Revival, Mission Revival, and Spanish Colonial Revival Styles became very popular in the first half of the 1900s.\n\nResurgent interest in the American Arts & Crafts or American Craftsman movement and the emergence of special-interest publications such as \"American Bungalow\" magazine have contributed to the bungalow's recent popularity. Rising house prices nationwide through the late 1990s and early 2000s as well as the central and convenient location of many bungalow-heavy urban neighborhoods have further fueled demand for these houses; as one example, some three-bedroom bungalows in San Diego can sell for $650,000 to $700,000, or more. The strength of the local housing market must be considered, however, as many bungalows in Detroit, Michigan have been abandoned, and are being razed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858124", "title": "Height discrimination", "text": "Height discrimination\n\nHeight discrimination (also known as heightism) is prejudice or discrimination against individuals based on height. In principle, it refers to the discriminatory treatment against individuals whose height is not within the normal acceptable range of height in a population. Various studies have shown it to be a cause of bullying.\n\nResearch indicates that the human brain uses height as a measurement to determine social status and fitness. The brain automatically associates physical size with leadership potential, power, strength and intelligence, an effect which has been discovered in smaller infants as young as 10 months old. Evolutionary psychologists theorise that this is due to height indicating that the individual had been better fed, indicating higher social status and thus resources available to them, as well as indicating general health and physical strength, the latter of which can be useful in asserting dominance. The automatic association between height and the mentioned traits has also been found to be stronger when it comes to assessing men than women.\n\nThe term \"height bigot\" was first used on the Mary Tyler Moore episode 7 of season 1 in October 1970. Mary is asked out by a charming, intelligent but very short man. Despite having a good time with him on a date she's apprehensive about going out with him again because of his height. She declares herself a “height bigot” to her friend Rhoda.\n\nThe term \"heightism\" was coined by sociologist Saul Feldman in a paper titled \"The presentation of shortness in everyday life—height and heightism in American society: Toward a sociology of stature\", presented at the meeting of the American Sociological Association in 1971. \"Heightism\" was included in the \"Second Barnhart Dictionary of New English\" (1971) and popularized by \"Time\" magazine in a 1971 article on Feldman's paper.\n\nThe word is an example of \"Time\" magazine's habit of supplying new words through \"unusual use of affixes\", although \"Time\" itself objected to the term's inclusion in the 1991 \"Random Webster's College Dictionary\", citing it as an example of the dictionary \"straining ... to avoid giving offense, except to good usage\" and \"[lending] authority to scores of questionable usages, many of them tinged with politically correct views.\"\n\nThe term \"heightism\" can also be seen as an example of the increase in popular usage of phrases, particularly those relating to prejudice and discrimination, patterned after that of the word \"sexism.\" Height discrimination can also come in the form of pejorative slang terms such as \"manlet\" for short men, or \"lanklet\" for tall people.\n\nA research paper published in the Journal of Applied Psychology showed that height is strongly related to success for men. It showed that increase in height for men corresponds to increase in income after controlling for other social psychological variables like age and weight. Economists Nicola Persico, Andrew Postlewaite and Dan Silverman explained the \"height premium\" and found that \"a 1.8-percent increase in wages accompanies every additional inch of height\". They also found that men's wages as adults could be linked to their height at age 16. The researchers found that on an average an increase in height by one inch at age 16 increased male adult wages by 2.6 percent. This is equal to increase of approximately $850 in 1996 annual earnings. In other words, the height and corresponding social experiences of taller male adolescent at age 16 would likely translate to higher wage in later adulthood as compared to shorter male adolescent.\n\nAs with all correlations, there may be other factors at work. For example, several epidemiological studies have claimed a positive correlation between height and intelligence in human populations. However, this correlation, though statistically significant, is generally weak and does not imply that variations in stature have a direct effect on cognitive ability. Though significant correlations have been found in early and late childhood in both developed and developing countries, in adults, changes in environment and social status reduce the strength of this correlation. A 2010 paper argues that higher wages by taller people could be explained by better cognitive and non-cognitive abilities, though why they possessed these better abilities was unclear.\n\nRecent findings suggest that height discrimination occurs most often against racial minorities. A 2007 study found that African-Americans reported higher weight and height related discrimination. This discrimination was even higher in female employees.\n\nIn 2017, attourney and author lawyer Tanya Osensky published \"Shortchanged: Height Discrimination and Strategies for Social Change\". The book exposes the cultural, medical, and occupational issues that short people face, which are often deemed unimportant and disregarded. Osensky challenges heightism by disclosing some beneficial aspects of shortness and suggesting avenues of activism and change.\n\nSome jobs require a minimum height. For example, US Military pilots have to be tall with a sitting height of . These exceptions noted, in the great majority of cases a person's height would not seem to have an effect on how well they are able to perform their job. Nevertheless, studies have shown that short people are paid less than taller people, with disparities similar in magnitude to the race and gender gaps.\n\nSurveys have uncovered that less than 3% of CEOs were below 1.70 m (5 ft 7 in) in height. 90% of CEOs are of above average height.\n\nIn 2018, market researcher Seth Ulinski published \"Amazing Heights: How Short Guys Stand Tall\". The book highlights that through technology and an entrepreneurial mindset, members of the \"short guy fraternity\" are able to blaze their own paths, bypassing potential glass ceilings and pay gaps. For example, short guy fraternity members include: Amazon founder and CEO Jeff Bezos 1.70 m (5 ft 7 in<nowiki></nowiki>), Facebook founder and CEO Mark Zuckerberg 1.70 m (5 ft 7 in<nowiki></nowiki>) and Google co-founder and Alphabet President Sergey Brin 1.73 m (5 ft 8 in<nowiki></nowiki>). With an estimated net worth of over $150 billion, Bezos is ranked as the richest person in the world, while Zuckerberg and Brin consistently rank in the top 20.\n\nHeightism is also a factor in dating preferences. For some people, height is a noteworthy factor in sexual attractiveness.\n\nThe greater reproductive success of taller men is attested to by studies indicating that taller men are more likely to be married and to have more children, except in societies with severe sex imbalances caused by war. However, more recent research has drawn this theory into question, finding no correlation between height and offspring count. Moreover, research on leg length and leg-to-body ratio conflicts with the notion that there is a distinct preference for taller mates. A 2008 study found that both extremes, tall and short, reduced attractiveness, and a 2006 study found that a higher leg-to-body ratio in both genders increased aesthetic appeal. Biologically, from an evolutionary perspective, these findings are consistent with data relating height to human health. Therefore, a biological or, more specifically, an evolutionary argument for the preference of a taller mate is questionable, lacking definitive evidence. Nonetheless, research by Dan Ariely found that American women exhibit a marked preference for dating taller men, and that for shorter men to be judged attractive by women, they must earn substantially more money than taller men.\n\nA 2012 study found that both men and women are willing to excuse height differences by using a trade-off approach. Men may compensate 1.3 BMI units with a 1 percent higher wage than their wife. Women may compensate 2 BMI units with an additional year of higher education. Furthermore, a 2015 study found that both men and women receive benefits for having a tall spouse.\n\nNonetheless, on a cultural level in Post-industrial society, a sociological relationship between height and perceived attractiveness exists. For instance, in a 2019 survey performed by Ipsos in Hungary with over 500 respondents, the perfect height for men for 53% of participants was between 1.78 m (5 ft 10 in) to 1.85 m (6 ft 1 in), while regarding female ideal height, 60% of respondents stated that it should be between 1.65 m (5 ft 5 in) and 1.75 m (5 ft 9 in), indicating a predominant preference for average to moderately tall height in both sexes. This cultural characteristic of confering relevance to height as an indicator of attractiveness, while applicable to the modernized world, is not a transcendental human quality. A study produced by the Universities of Groningen and Valencia, has found that men who felt most anxious about attractive, physically dominant, and socially powerful rivals, were less jealous, the taller they were themselves. \n\nCharlotte Gill argues in \"The Independent\" that \"fat-shaming\" women is much less accepted than \"short-shaming\" men, although the latter is even worse.\n\nIn the media, heightism can take the form of making fun of people whose height is out of the normal range in ways that would be unseemly if directed at skin color or weight. An example is Kevin Connolly's portrayal of Eric \"E\" Murphy in HBO's television series Entourage (Connolly is )\n\nSimilarly, shorter men are often denied leading roles. Although some famous cinema actors such as Alan Ladd have been short in real life, in their fictional depictions they have been presented as taller. \n\nIn 1987 the BBC comedy series \"A Small Problem\" imagined a totalitarian society in which people under the height of were systematically discriminated against. The program attracted considerable criticism and complaints which accused the writers of reinforcing prejudice and of using offensive terms; the writers responded that their intention had been to show all prejudice was stupid and that height was chosen randomly.\n\n\"S&M Short and Male\", a documentary aired in 2008, demonstrated the obstacles and bigotry that short statured men face every day in life, love and work.\n\nCurrently, there is one state in the United States of America, Michigan, that prohibits height discrimination. There is pending legislation introduced by Massachusetts Representative Byron Rushing which would add Massachusetts to the list. Two municipalities currently prohibit height discrimination: Santa Cruz, California, and San Francisco, California. The District of Columbia prohibits discrimination based on personal appearance. Ontario, Canada, prohibits height discrimination under the human rights code. Victoria, Australia, prohibits discrimination based on physical features under the Equal Opportunity Act of 1995.\n\nExamples of successful legal battles pursued against height discrimination in the workplace include a 2002 case involving highly qualified applicants being turned down for jobs at a bank because they were considered too short; a 2005 Swedish case involving an unfair height requirement for employment implemented by Volvo car company; and a 1999 case involving a Kohler Company informal practice not to consider women who applied for jobs unless they were at least tall. Height requirements for employment which are not a \"bona fide\" occupational requirement are becoming less common.\n\nA research report published in the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\" found a strong inverse association between height and suicide in Swedish men which may signify the importance of childhood exposure in the etiology of adult mental disorder or reflect stigmatization or discrimination encountered by short men in their adult lives. A record linkage study of the birth, conscription, mortality, family, and census register data of 1,299,177 Swedish men followed from age 18 to a maximum of age 49 was performed and it was found that a 5-cm (2-inch) increase in height was associated with a 9% decrease in suicide risk.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858127", "title": "1967 Tasmanian fires", "text": "1967 Tasmanian fires\n\nThe 1967 Tasmanian fires were an Australian natural disaster which occurred on 7 February 1967, an event which came to be known as the Black Tuesday bushfires. They were the most deadly bushfires that Tasmania has ever experienced, leaving 62 people dead, 900 injured and over seven thousand homeless.\n\n110 separate fire fronts burnt through some of land in southern Tasmania within the space of five hours. Fires raged from near Hamilton and Bothwell to the D'Entrecasteaux Channel as well as Snug. There was extensive damage to agricultural property along the Channel, the Derwent Valley and the Huon Valley. Fires also destroyed forest, public infrastructure and properties around Mount Wellington and many small towns along the Derwent estuary and east of Hobart.\n\nThe worst of the fires was the Hobart Fire, which encroached upon the city of Hobart. In total, the fires claimed 62 lives in a single day. Property loss was also extensive with 1293 homes and over 1700 other buildings destroyed. The fires destroyed 80 bridges, 4800 sections of power lines, 1500 motor vehicles and over 100 other structures. It was estimated that at least 62,000 farm animals were killed. The total damage amounted to $40,000,000 in 1967 Australian dollar values. The resulting insurance payout was the then largest in Australian history.\nThe late winter and early spring of 1966 had been wet over southeastern Tasmania, resulting in a large amount of vegetation growth by November. However, in November, Tasmania began its driest eight-month period since 1885, and by the end of January 1967 the luxuriant growth in the area had dried off. Though January was a cool month, hot weather began early in February, so that in the days leading up to 7 February 1967, several bush fires were burning uncontrolled in the areas concerned. Some of these fires had been deliberately lit for burning off, despite the extremely dry conditions at the time. Reports into the causes of the fire stated that only 22 of the 110 fires were started accidentally.\n\nShortly before midday on the 7th, a combination of extremely high temperatures, (the maximum was 39 °C (102 °F)), very low humidity and very strong winds from the northwest led to disaster.\n\nAlthough this fire was by far the worst in loss of life and property in Tasmanian history, the meteorological conditions are common. McArthur's report on the fire notes that \"very similar conditions have occurred on three or four occasions during the past 70 years.\"\n\nIf considered in terms of both loss of property and loss of life, in 1967 this represented one of the worst disasters to have occurred in Australia. It is comparable in scale with the 1939 Black Friday bushfires in Victoria (where the loss of 72 lives was nevertheless spread over several days) and the subsequent 1983 Ash Wednesday bushfires in Victoria and South Australia, which claimed 75 lives and razed over 2,000 homes. The 2009 Black Saturday bushfires north of Melbourne, and elsewhere in Victoria, in which 173 people died, share the same commencement date of 7 February.\n\nA memorial for the 1967 Bushfires was built at Snug in the Kingborough municipality, south of Hobart, where a plaque with the names of the 62 people killed is fixed to a brick chimney. The memorial has storyboards telling the story of the 1967 fires, as well as bushfire preparedness information. It is surrounded by a garden of fire resistant native plants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858132", "title": "Japanese new religions", "text": "Japanese new religions\n\nJapanese new religions are new religious movements established in Japan. In Japanese, they are called or . Japanese scholars classify all religious organizations founded since the middle of the 19th century as \"new religions\"; thus, the term refers to a great diversity and number of organizations. Most came into being in the mid-to-late twentieth century and are influenced by much older traditional religions including Hinduism, Buddhism and Shinto. Western influences include Christianity, the Bible and the writings of Nostradamus.\n\nIn the 1860s Japan began to experience great social turmoil and rapid modernization. As social conflicts emerged in this last decade of the Edo period, known as the Bakumatsu period, some new religious movements appeared. Among them were Tenrikyo, Kurozumikyo and Oomoto, sometimes called \"Nihon Sandai Shinkōshūkyō\" (\"Japan's three large new religions\"), which were directly influenced by Shinto (the state religion) and shamanism.\n\nThe social tension continued to grow during the Meiji period, affecting religious practices and institutions. Conversion from traditional faith was no longer legally forbidden, officials lifted the 250-year ban on Christianity, and missionaries of established Christian churches reentered Japan. The traditional syncreticism between Shinto and Buddhism ended and Shinto became the national religion. Losing the protection of the Japanese government which Buddhism had enjoyed for centuries, Buddhist monks faced radical difficulties in sustaining their institutions, but their activities also became less restrained by governmental policies and restrictions.\n\nThe Japanese government was very suspicious towards these religious movements and periodically made attempts to suppress them. Government suppression was especially severe during the early 20th century, particularly from the 1930s until the early 1940s, when the growth of Japanese nationalism and State Shinto were closely linked. Under the Meiji regime \"lèse majesté\" prohibited insults against the Emperor and his Imperial House, and also against some major Shinto shrines which were believed to be tied strongly to the Emperor. The government strengthened its control over religious institutions that were considered to undermine State Shinto or nationalism, arresting some members and leaders of Shinshukyo, including Onisaburo Deguchi of Oomoto and Tsunesaburō Makiguchi of Soka Kyoiku Gakkai (now Soka Gakkai), who typically were charged with violation of \"lèse majesté\" and the Peace Preservation Law.\n\nAfter Japan lost World War II, its government and policy changed radically during occupation by Allied troops. The official status of State Shinto was abolished, and Shinto shrines became religious organizations, losing government protection and financial support. Although the Occupation Army (GHQ) practiced censorship of all types of organizations, specific suppression of Shinshūkyō ended.\n\nGHQ invited many Christian missionaries from the United States to Japan, through Douglas MacArthur's famous call for 1,000 missionaries. Missionaries arrived not only from traditional churches, but also from some modern denominations, such as Jehovah's Witnesses. The Jehovah's Witnesses missionaries were so successful that they have become the second largest Christian denomination in Japan, with over 210,000 members (the largest is Catholicism with about 500,000 members). In Japan, Jehovah's Witnesses tend to be considered a Christianity-based Shinshūkyō, not only because they were founded in the 19th century (as were other major Shinshūkyō), but also because of their missionary practices, which involve door-to-door visiting and frequent meetings.\n\nDespite the influx of Christian missionaries, the majority of Shinshūkyō are Buddhist- or Shinto-related sects. Major sects include Risshō Kōsei Kai and Shinnyo-en. Major goals of Shinshūkyō include spiritual healing, individual prosperity, and social harmony. Many also hold a belief in Apocalypticism, that is in the imminent end of the world or at least its radical transformation. Most of those who joined Shinshūkyō in this period were women from lower-middle-class backgrounds.\n\nSoka Gakkai has a particular influence to politics since 1964, thanks to their affiliated party Komeito, later New Komeito. In 1999, it was estimated that 10 to 20 per cent of the Japanese population were members of a Shinshūkyō.\n\nAfter World War II, the structure of the state was changed radically. Prior to WWII, the National Diet was restricted and the real power lay with the executive branch, in which the prime minister was appointed by the emperor. Under the new Constitution of Japan, the Diet had the supreme authority for decision making in state affairs and all its members were elected by the people. Especially in the House of Councillors, one third of whose members were elected through nationwide vote, nationwide organizations found they could influence national policy by supporting certain candidates. Major Shinshūkyō became one of the so-called \"vote-gathering machines\" in Japan, especially for the conservative parties which merged into the Liberal Democratic Party in 1955.\n\nIn the 1950s, Japanese wives of American servicemen introduced the Soka Gakkai to the United States, which in the 1970s developed into the Soka Gakkai International (SGI). The SGI has steadily gained members while avoiding much of the controversy encountered by some other new religious movements in the US. Well-known American SGI converts include musician Herbie Hancock and singer Tina Turner.\n\nIn Brazil Shinshūkyō, like Honmon Butsuryū-shū, were first introduced in the 1920s among the Japanese immigrant population. In the 1950s and 1960s some started to become popular among the non-Japanese population as well. Seicho-no-Ie now has the largest membership in the country. In the 1960s it adopted Portuguese, rather than Japanese, as its language of instruction and communication. It also began to advertise itself as philosophy rather than religion in order to avoid conflict with the Roman Catholic Church and other socially conservative elements in society. By 1988 it had more than 2.4 million members in Brazil, 85% of them not of Japanese ethnicity.\n\nData for 2012 is from the Agency for Cultural Affairs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858137", "title": "Michal Hornstein", "text": "Michal Hornstein\n\nMichal Hornstein, (September 17, 1920 – April 25, 2016) was a Polish-born Canadian businessman, art collector and philanthropist.\n\nBorn in Tarnów, Poland and raised in Kraków, he was captured by the German army during World War II forced onto a train and deported to Auschwitz. However, before the train reached the notorious concentration camp, though, Hornstein jumped from its side. He spent the rest of the war — which claimed the lives of innumerable of his family members and friends — hiding from the Nazis in the forests of Czechoslovakia and living in Budapest before decamping for Bratislava.\n\nIn Bratislava, he met Renata Witelson, another Polish Jew fleeing Nazi persecution. Witelson had spent much of the war in hiding — in the Warsaw Ghetto, in a convent, with a Polish family and in safe houses. It was in one of those safe houses that the couple met. In 1946, they were married in Rome. He immigrated to Canada in 1951, at the encouragement of the Canadian ambassador to Italy, whom they had befriended, and relocated to Montreal. He became a citizen in 1957. He founded the company, Federal Construction Ltd., a real estate company, where he made his fortune and remained president of the company until his final days.\n\nThe Hornstein became prominent patrons of major Montreal institutions, including hospitals and universities. But the couple is most closely associated with the Montreal Museum of Fine Arts (MMFA). Michal Hornstein had served on its board of trustees, almost continuously, since 1970. He also played an important role raising funds for the museum's collection, amassing a vast collection of Renaissance paintings and helped raise millions that went toward restoring and expanding the museum. Michal Hornstein contributed to the collection himself, donating some 420 works of art, and played a role in the acquisition of 23 others. In 2012, the couple announced it was donating its collection of 75 Old Master paintings to the museum, a gift estimated to be worth $75 million. The MMFA described it as the largest ever private donation to a Quebec museum. The Old Masters collection is to be housed in the Michal and Renata Hornstein Pavilion for Peace, which is scheduled to open in early November 2016. The couple's name also graces an existing pavilion, which houses galleries dedicated to Asian and Islamic art.\n\nThe Hornsteins also donated money to education and health care, namely the Montreal Heart Institute, the Montreal General Hospital, Hôpital Notre Dame and the Jewish General Hospital.\n\nOn Wednesday, June 11, 2014 at the John Molson School of Business’ spring convocation ceremony, Concordia University conferred upon Michal and Renata Hornstein honorary doctorates in recognition of their lifetime of philanthropy.\n\nHornstein died at his home in Montreal, Quebec on April 25, 2016, aged 95.\n\nIn 1984 he was made a Member of the Order of Canada. In 1993 he was made a Knight of the National Order of Quebec, promoted to Officer in 2002 and Grand Officer in 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858143", "title": "Gospel of Mani", "text": "Gospel of Mani\n\nThe Living Gospel (also Great Gospel, Gospel of the Living and variants) was a 3rd-century gnostic gospel written by Mani. It was originally written in Syriac and called the \"Evangelion\" (Syriac: ܐܘܢܓܠܝܘܢ), from the Greek: εὐαγγέλιον (\"good news\") and was one of the seven original scriptures of Manichaeism. A number of fragments are preserved in the \"Cologne Mani-Codex\" (discovered 1969) and on manuscript fragments found in Turfan beginning in 1904. Some Coptic manuscript fragments recovered at Fayyum appear to contain a sort of commentary or homily on the gospel.\n\nAl-Biruni, who still had access to the full text, commented that it was a \"gospel of a special kind\", unlike any of the gospels of the Christians, and that the Manichaeans insisted that theirs was the only true gospel, and that the various gospels of the Christians misrepresented the truth about the Messiah. \n\nThere is a tendency in historical scholarship to confuse the Mani's Living Gospel with another of his works, known as \"Ertenk\" or \"Ardhang\"/Arzhang (ancient Persian: \"artha-thanha\" ≈ \"message of truth\") or \"The Picture Book\". The \"Ardhang\" was in fact a picture-book, given the name of \"Eikōn\" in Greek and Coptic. This was a book containing illustrations to accompany and facilitate the understanding of Mani’s cosmology. Photius (or pseudo-Photius) comments on the text, saying that it contains a falsified account of some of the acts of Jesus, while Peter of Sicily insists that it contained no such material.\n\nIt is known that the gospel had 22 parts, each labelled by a different letter of the Aramaic alphabet. The combination of two Turfan fragments allows the reconstruction of the text of the first part (\"alaph\"). The section deals with the nature of the \"King of the World of Light\" who resides at the \"Navel of the World\" but is also present on his whole earth, from without as from within, having no limits except where his earth borders on that of his enemy, the \"Kingdom of Darkness\". Schneemelcher (1990) suggests tentatively that the text may have been designed as a gospel of the gnostic type, perhaps intended to comment on or replace the Christian gospel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858145", "title": "Solinair", "text": "Solinair\n\nSolinair d.o.o. is a Slovenian airline based at Ljubljana Jože Pučnik Airport. It mainly operates scheduled and charter cargo services for various logistics companies such as DHL and also offers aircraft maintenance.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations in 1991. In July 2015, Solinair laid off its entire fleet. While one Saab 340 was returned to its lessor, two Boeing 737-400Fs have been sold for unknown reasons. Since September 2015, Solinair has been operating 1x A300-600F aircraft.\n\nAs of October 2019, the Solinair fleet consists of the following aircraft:\n\nSolinair operates cargo flights between these destinations:\n\n"}
{"id": "1858148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858148", "title": "Dublin, South Australia", "text": "Dublin, South Australia\n\nDublin is a small town on the Adelaide Plains in South Australia, north of the state capital, Adelaide. Situated on Highway 1, the town is surrounded by farmland and rural industry. Along with nearby Windsor the area is home to a growing commuter population. At the 2006 census, Dublin had a population of 241.\n\nDublin is in the federal Division of Grey, the state electoral district of Narungga and the Adelaide Plains Council. Dublin lies in the cadastral Hundred of Dublin which was named in 1856 after the Irish capital, Dublin.\n\nThe South Australian Livestock Exchange saleyards are located southeast of the township, replacing earlier saleyards closer to Adelaide at Gepps Cross in 1999 for sheep, lambs and pigs, and 2003 for cattle.\n\nThere were two schools, one in the town and another at Stony Point junction. The Stony Point School was on the corner of Dublin Road, Windsor Road and Shannon Road from 1876 to 1906. The Dublin School was from 1881 to 1972.\n\nThe Dublin Football Club amalgamated with Wild Horse Plains in 1921 and Long Plains to form United.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858153", "title": "Mez", "text": "Mez\n\nMez or MEZ may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858156", "title": "Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business", "text": "Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business\n\nThe Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business or the Smith School of Business (formerly the Queen's School of Business) is a business school located at Queen's University in Kingston, Ontario, Canada. The school offers undergraduate and graduate programs as a part of Queen's University, but is managed separately with its own dean and budget. The school of business became its own faculty in 1963 with its first dean, Lawrence MacPherson. The current interim dean at the Smith School of Business is Dr. Teri Shearer.\nOn October 1, 2015, the Queen's School of Business was renamed The Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business in recognition of a $50-million donation from Stephen J.R. Smith. The donation is the largest gift ever made to a Canadian business school. This donation nearly doubled the school's already significant endowment from $54 million to $104 million. As of 2015, this will result in Smith being an extremely close second in total endowment amongst all Canadian Business Schools, next to only the Rotman School of Management. Two thirds of the donation will be channelled towards attracting professors and faculty, while the remaining third will form a pool of scholarships and bursaries designed to attract students from around the world.\n\nThe school is fully accredited by the AACSB (United States) and the EFMD (EQUIS) (Europe).\n\nOn October 1, 2015, the Queen's School of Business was renamed The Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business in recognition of a $50-million donation from Stephen J.R Smith, a graduate of the Queen's University's Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science.\n\nThe undergraduate program offers students extracurricular options in the fields of Consulting, Accounting, Marketing and Finance. These include student-run security portfolios, consulting firms, and dozens of conferences.\nThe Queen's Commerce undergraduate business program also provides its students with an international exchange option for their third year of study. The Smith School of Business is partnered with over 95 business schools in over 35 countries such as Bocconi University in Italy and HEC Paris in France, and the majority of students participate in the exchange.\n\nQueen's allows students to pursue an Arts and Science degree concurrently with their Bachelor degree Commerce to graduate with two degrees in their four years.\n\nThe Queen's Full-Time MBA program (previously Queen's MBA for Science and Technology) was ranked as the number one full-time MBA program in Canada and number one outside of the U.S. by bi-annual ranking of Business Week in 2004, 2006, and 2008. Environics ranked the Queen's Full-time MBA program number one in Canada in 2006 in their Report on Executive Education in Canada. In the 2012 QS Global 200 Business Schools Report the school was indexed as the 3rd best business school in Canada and the 16th best business school in North America.\n\nThe Queen's Full-Time Accelerated MBA for Business Graduates program is one of the best MBA programs in Canada for people with an undergraduate degree in Business. In 2017 Financial times ranking, Queen's MBA is ranked 50th in the world and in 2018 The Economist ranking, Queen's MBA is ranked 88th in the world The program is 12 months in length and the admission decision is dependent on applicants progressive work experience, previous academic grades in undergraduate business degree, GMAT and personal interview.\n\nThe Queen's Executive MBA program was ranked in 2006 as the best program in Canada for Executive MBAs by BusinessWeek, and Environics. The program is 16 months in length and the admission decision is dependent on the applicants management experience, references, previous academic experience, QMAT (or GMAT) scores and a personal interview. The average Queen's Executive MBA student has an age of 35 years, but may be up to 50 years old, and boasts a minimum of 13 years working experience.\n\nThe Queen's Master of International Business is available in either a Single Degree Option or Double Degree Option.\n\nThe Queen's Master of Management, Innovation & Entrepreneurship (MMIE) program is offered in partnership with the Queen's Faculty of Engineering and Applied Science.\n\nQueen's also offers two research intensive degrees, namely the Masters of Science in Management (MSc) and a Doctoral program in Management (Ph.D) in the areas of\n\n\nAlmost all business classes are held in Goodes Hall, which sits at the northwest corner of Queen's University campus. The building is named in honour of the family of Mel Goodes, a Commerce ‘57 alumnus and former Chairman & CEO of Warner–Lambert Worldwide.\n\nSeptember 2012 marked the completion of a significant expansion of Goodes Hall, increasing the size of the facility by 75,000 ft² to a total of 188,000 ft². The expansion includes several new classrooms and student breakout rooms, as well as 51 additional faculty offices and many enhanced features for students.\n\nThe Smith School of Business opened its first foreign campus in Dubai, United Arab Emirates, at the DIFC on May 25, 2007. Classes started in October 2007. The campus mainly hosts Queen's executive development programs.\n\nThe Stephen J.R. Smith School of Business has received significant recognition in the past years. The school was also found to have the most number of graduates employed as Chief Executive Officers (or equivalent) in a Fortune Global 500, out of any university in Canada, and 38th globally.\n\n2012 Bloomberg Businessweek: Full-Time MBA International Ranking placed 4th outside of the US\n\n2014 Canadian Business magazine placed 1st in Canada Overall\n\n2015 Canadian Business magazine placed 2nd in Canada Overall \n\n2015 Bloomberg Business Week placed 2nd in Canada Overall\n\nFinancial Times Rankings:\n\n2016 Global MBA Ranking placed 1st in Canada for Salary Increase \n\n2016 Global MBA Ranking placed 1st in Canada for Value for Money \n\n2015 Global MBA Ranking placed 86th in the world\n\n2014 EMBA Cornell University: Johnson/Queen's Smith School of Business ranked 47th\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858159", "title": "Indian School of Business", "text": "Indian School of Business\n\nThe Indian School of Business (ISB) is a private business school established in India in 2001. It has two campuses in Hyderabad (Telangana), and in Mohali (Punjab). It offers certificates in various post-graduate management programs. ISB became the 100th Triple Accredited business school in the world (AMBA, EQUIS, AACSB) upon achieving AMBA accreditation on May 12, 2020.\n\nThe Indian School of Business (ISB) was started in 1996 by a group of businessmen and academics. Co-founders Rajat Gupta and Anil Kumar, senior executives of McKinsey & Company, directed teams of McKinsey consultants to start the school. Gupta recruited U.S. business leaders while Kumar recruited Indian leaders for its executive board. Formal partnerships were established with international business schools Wharton and Kellogg. Pramath Sinha, then a junior partner at McKinsey in India, was persuaded to take a leave of absence to be the school's first dean. Rajat Gupta became the school's first chairman and was succeeded by Adi Godrej in 2011. The Government of Andhra Pradesh was pivotal in sanctioning ISB's Hyderabad campus in September 1998. The foundation stone for the campus was laid in 1999 and was inaugurated by Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee in 2001. The Government of Punjab sanctioned the Mohali Campus in 2010; its foundation stone was laid in September 2010 by Punjab Chief Minister Prakash Singh Badal, and was inaugurated in December 2012 by the then Union Minister of Finance, P. Chidambaram.\n\nISB is accredited by AMBA, EQUIS and AACSB. ISB became the 100th Triple Accredited institution in the world upon achieving AMBA accreditation on May 12, 2020.\n\nISB is not accredited by the All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and has not applied for such accreditation, as it offers a certificate program and not a degree or a diploma. The US Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) has ruled that for the purposes of US Visa and Green Cards, the post-graduate PGP certificate awarded by ISB is not equivalent to a Master of Business Administration degree, unlike similarly named certificates awarded by the Indian Institutes of Management.\n\nThe Indian School of Business has campuses in Hyderabad, Telangana, and Mohali, Punjab.\n\nEstablished in 2001, the Hyderabad campus is spread across . It includes the academic centre, a recreation centre, and four student villages each accommodating 130 to 210 students.\n\nThe ISB Hyderabad campus is certified by Indian green building council.\n\nThe Mohali campus began operations on 14 April 2012, and offers ISB's Post-Graduate Programme (PGP) and additional short-term executive education programs. The campus was designed by Perkins Eastman Architects led by Aaron Schwarz. The entire campus is Wi-Fi enabled. The academic block houses lecture theatres, faculty offices and lounge, the learning resource centre (LRC), and an atrium which can serve as a 500-seat auditorium. The campus also hosts four other research institutes:\n\nISB is the academic partner for the Goldman Sachs 10,000 Women Entrepreneurs Certificate programme in India which provides management education to \"under-served women\".\n\nThe Young Leaders' Programme (YLP) select undergraduate students for mentoring over a period of two years while they work. These individuals are also awarded a scholarship of 100,000 (approx. US$2000) during the course of the programme. Mentored students can join ISB following successful completion of the work-mentorship programme. 45 undergraduate students were selected for when the programme began in 2011.\n\nYLP at Hyderabad includes integrated budgetary system (IBS), integrated financing system (IFS), management information service (MIS) marketing, and management control system (MCS).\n\nThe Management Programme in Public Policy (MPPP) began in 2015 and was developed by the Bharti Institute of Public Policy in consultation with The Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy. The programme is oriented towards mid-career professionals, examining public policy perspectives on a wide range of economic and management subjects. The first class of students were drawn from government, public sector and civil society organisations.\n\nEvery year ISB Organizing Policy Conclave Program, This Policy Conclaveis a policy summit that brings together luminaries from the public sector, private sector and the civil society along with the brightest minds at ISB to discuss policy issues. The idea is to focus on shaping the dialogue, setting the narrative and focusing agenda on issues that really matter for the India beyond 2020.\n\n\"ISBInsight\" (stylized ISB\"Insight\") is the biannual research periodical of ISB, featuring articles based on management research from Indian and emerging markets. It presents research across management areas such as strategy, marketing, information technology, accounting, behavioural studies, finance, economics and public policy. It also publishes interviews with leaders and decision makers from industry, academia, government and non-governmental organisations.\n\nWorldwide, the \"Financial Times\" has ranked ISB  27 in its Global MBA Ranking 2017, the top ranking given to an institute in India. On the 2019 ranking, ISB's Post Graduate Programme in Management (PGP) climbed to No. 24.\n\nAccording to FT Global MBA Ranking 2018, ISB ranks 28th for its one-year executive post-graduate programme (EPGP).\n\nThe \"QS Global 250 MBA Rankings 2018\" ranked ISB at No. 93 worldwide and No. 12 in Asia, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nISB has secured the 7th position globally in the Forbes Best Business Schools 2019 rankings\n\n"}
{"id": "1858170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858170", "title": "The Veils", "text": "The Veils\n\nThe Veils are a London-based indie/alternative band fronted by lead singer and songwriter Finn Andrews. Head of Rough Trade Records Geoff Travis has referred to Finn as \"a young but maturing real artist in the vein of Nick Cave and David Bowie\".\n\nFinn Andrews was born in London but spent his teenage years at high school in Auckland, New Zealand. Largely disinterested in school, Finn was also playing in many bands (one of which met and played regularly in a folk club on Mt Victoria in Devonport, Auckland) and writing the songs that would later comprise The Veils debut album The Runaway Found. When he was 16, a set of demos he sent to record companies created a stir and led to invitations for him to return to London and make a record.\n\nThe Veils were signed almost immediately to Blanco y Negro, an indie/major hybrid imprint led by Rough Trade's boss Geoff Travis. On 19 August 2002 the band released a promo only single \"Death & Co.\", while a proper commercial single release came three months later, on 18 November, for \"More Heat Than Light\" followed by \"The Leavers Dance\" (24 February 2003), which was distributed exclusively at gigs.\n\nBy then increasing contractual disparities and artistic differences between the head of Warner and Geoff Travis delayed plans for a debut album. The Blanco Y Negro label was eventually disbanded and the dispute turned into a court battle, with The Veils eventually regaining ownership of their master recordings from Warner Music.\nBy mid-2003 Geoff Travis had signed them to Rough Trade Records.\n\nThe Veils recorded four more songs with producer Bernard Butler (ex-Suede guitarist), and the band finally released its first Rough Trade single, \"Guiding Light\" on 28 July 2003. Single releases of \"Lavinia\" (24 November 2003) and \"The Wild Son\" (26 January 2004) led to \"The Runaway Found\" finally hitting the shelves on 16 February 2004. Though rapturously received by the critics, by the time of its release Andrews felt unhappy with the direction the band had taken and, allegedly following altercations between him and other members, The Veils' first incarnation split mid-2004, just 2 months after their debut album's release.\n\nAndrews left the UK early 2005 and embarked on a solo tour of America and Japan, eventually returning home to New Zealand where he found a new direction for the band. He spent the summer there rehearsing with high-school friends Liam Gerrard (keyboards) and Sophia Burn (bass) in Liam's bedroom, soon amassing an album's worth of material. When the trio returned to London they were joined by Dan Raishbrook (guitar) and Henning Dietz (drums), who completed the new line-up. \nThey began recording sessions with producer Nick Launay in Los Angeles in early 2006. \nThe resulting album 'Nux Vomica' had a darker, far heavier and more complex sound, augmented by string arrangements by ex Lounge Lizard Jane Scarpantoni, but also a newly found, highly animalistic energy. Lead singer Finn Andrews shows \"rougher\" and more experimental vocals on many of the songs such as 'Not Yet' and 'Jesus for the Jugular'. Two singles were released from the album: \"Advice for Young Mothers to Be\" (4 September 2006) and \"One Night on Earth\" (15 April 2007). \"Nux Vomica\" featured on 16 English and American critics' best of the year lists in 2006.\n\nIn the 16 months following the release of \"Nux Vomica\" The Veils played over 250 shows across 15 countries, and during the U.S. leg of the tour it was announced that keyboardist Liam Gerrard would leave the band to return home to New Zealand due to personal reasons. The Veils carried on as a four-piece and, whilst living out of a classic car garage in Oklahoma City, started recording new demos at The Flaming Lips studio between playing shows on the east and west coasts of the America. By mid-2008 they were back to London to begin work on their third album with producer Graham Sutton. The recording sessions at West Point Studios lasted only three weeks, and at the end of the summer the album was done and ready to be mixed. \"Sun Gangs\" was released on 6 April 2009 and was featured in many websites top albums of 2009.\n\nThe band spent the summer of 2010 working on new material. On 6 December it was announced that a new 7-song EP entitled Troubles of the Brain was set to be released on 24 January, and that the band had left Rough Trade after almost 9 years and started their own label, Pitch Beast Records. The EP is produced by Finn Andrews and Bernard Butler and was recorded at Finn's home studio in London.\nIn March 2011 The Veils headlined a benefit concert for the NZ Red Cross in London, playing a selection of songs from the EP.\n\nThe Veils' fourth album was recorded in Laurel Canyon, Los Angeles and was released on April 2013. In January the band recorded a 5-song live session at Abbey Road Studios which was also turned into a short film and released as exclusive content with the new record.\n\nFollowing their album's release The Veils embarked on a 150-date world tour with shows selling out all across North America, Europe and New Zealand.\n\nOnce the tour finished Finn Andrews revealed in an interview for NME that the band had moved into their own studio in east London and had already begun work on a new record due for release in 2016. Finn also revealed he had been commissioned to write an orchestral piece to commemorate the antipodean dead of World War One to be performed in Belgium in spring 2016.\n\nIn June The Veils announced their fifth album 'Total Depravity' was to be released on August 26, 2016.\nThe album was recorded in Los Angeles, London, New York and Porto and features production by El-P, Adam Greenspan and Dean Hurley. During the same month David Lynch also announced Finn Andrews would appear in the new series of Twin Peaks. The album cover features artwork by Italian artist Nicola Samori.\nThe video for Axolotl was filmed on Bethells Beach in Auckland, New Zealand and features a Charles Darwin-like figure in the midst of a surreal exorcism in the Desert, eventually transforming into a large tentacled figure in a hat.\nThe Veils then announced a world tour in support of the record will begin in Europe in October.\n\nIn 2016 David Lynch announced that Finn Andrews would appear in the revival of Twin Peaks. The band appeared performing the song \"AXOLOTL\" in the 15th part, aired August 21, 2017.\n\nThe Veils have been praised by film directors David Lynch, Paolo Sorrentino & Tim Burton, all of whom have used songs by them on their soundtracks. The Veils have also recently collaborated on a new album with producer El-P/Run The Jewels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858171", "title": "Tomasz Kuszczak", "text": "Tomasz Kuszczak\n\nTomasz Mirosław Kuszczak (; born 20 March 1982) is a Polish professional footballer who plays as a goalkeeper, most recently for English club Birmingham City.\n\nBorn in Krosno Odrzańskie, Kuszczak previously played for Śląsk Wrocław in Poland, as well as for the German clubs KFC Uerdingen 05 and Hertha BSC, before moving in 2004 to England with West Bromwich Albion. During the summer of 2006 he transferred to Manchester United and in 2012 joined Brighton & Hove Albion, who released him at the end of the 2013–14 season. After spending the later part of the 2014–15 season with Wolverhampton Wanderers, he signed for Birmingham City in July 2015.\n\nKuszczak made 14 appearances for the Poland under-21 side and has been capped 11 times at senior level. He was a member of the nation's squad at the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\n\nKuszczak was born in Krosno Odrzańskie, Poland. He joined German club Hertha BSC in 2000, spending a year with their reserve team before being promoted to the first team in 2001. He subsequently spent three seasons as the third-choice goalkeeper at the club, behind Gábor Király and Christian Fiedler, and failed to make a single appearance in the Bundesliga. He was out of contract with Hertha when he was signed by West Bromwich Albion manager Gary Megson on 14 July 2004.\n\nHe made his debut for West Brom on 18 September 2004 in a Premier League match against Fulham at The Hawthorns, which ended in a 1–1 draw. He then played in a League Cup match against Colchester United on 21 September 2004, Albion losing 2–1.\n\nKuszczak had only kept goal in one match in the Premier League before West Brom's game against Manchester United on the penultimate match day of the 2004–05 season, with the \"Baggies\" facing a tough relegation battle. He put in a striking performance, having to step in front of the goal after the first choice keeper Russell Hoult was injured in the first half. West Bromwich drew the match 1–1, with Kuszczak remaining unbeaten during his 68 minutes on the pitch. This performance helped Kuszczak earn his first man of the match award in the Premier League. The following week, in the season's last match against Portsmouth, Kuszczak had another impressive game, enabling West Bromwich to win 2–0, and hence stay up in the league.\n\nIn 2005–06, Kuszczak was supposed to be the reserve keeper behind Chris Kirkland. With Kirkland injured, Kuszczak kept goal in his first Premier League match of the season on 30 October 2005, but could not prevent Newcastle United from winning 3–0. His performances then improved, allowing him to become the first-choice keeper. This continued despite Kirkland's return from injury. On 15 January 2006, Kuszczak had an impressive game against Wigan Athletic, making a match-winning save late on from Jason Roberts, with West Bromwich winning the game 1–0. The save was voted \"Save of the Season\" by viewers of BBC TV's \"Match of the Day\" programme. Nonetheless, his club were relegated at the end of the season.\n\nOn 7 July 2006, it was confirmed by West Bromwich Albion manager Bryan Robson that Manchester United had made a bid of around £2 million for Kuszczak. On 3 August, West Brom rejected a £2.5 million bid for Kuszczak from United, citing that a one-year loan spell for United starlet Giuseppe Rossi would also have to be included along with the cash to result in a deal. On 10 August 2006, Kuszczak joined Manchester United in a deal involving the transfers of England Under-18 goalkeeper Luke Steele and defender Paul McShane to West Brom. When officially announcing the move, United failed to state the terms of the deal, leading to suggestions that it was a merely a loan deal. Chief executive David Gill clarified the situation, stating, \"Tomasz will be a Manchester United player for the next four years, he has come to us on loan for the first year, and then will join us permanently in July 2007.\"\n\nKuszczak made his debut against Arsenal on 17 September 2006, he conceded an early penalty but did redeem himself by saving the ensuing spot-kick from Gilberto Silva. Despite saving the penalty, Arsenal's Emmanuel Adebayor scored a late goal which gave them a 1–0 win at Old Trafford, which was the club's first defeat of the season. His first start came in a 2–1 away win over Crewe Alexandra in the League Cup on 25 October. He had his name misspelled on the back of his shirt during this game, with it incorrectly reading \"Zuszczak\". Although Kuszczak did not play enough Premier League games in the 2006–07 season, he received a winners medal by special application to the Premier League.\nOn 2 July 2007, Manchester United announced that the permanent transfer had been completed, for a fee of £2.125 million. Due to Dutch keeper Edwin van der Sar's continued good form and Ben Foster's knee injury, Kuszczak was named Manchester United's number 2 for the 2007–08 season. During an interview in May 2007 Kuszczak stated that he wanted one day to become the number 1 at Manchester United.\n\nOn 8 March 2008, in an FA Cup tie against Portsmouth, Kuszczak replaced the injured Van der Sar at half-time, only to receive a straight red card for a foul on Milan Baroš 30 minutes later. Rio Ferdinand was forced to take over in goal, but failed to save Sulley Muntari's penalty, resulting in United being knocked out of the competition.\n\nIn September 2008, Kuszczak signed a two-year extension which would keep him at Old Trafford until 2012. However, after being overlooked in favour of Foster for the 2009 League Cup Final, Kuszczak faced problems in aiming to become United's new first choice after Van der Sar's retirement and expressed discontent with his situation at Manchester United. In 2009, he was said to be considering his long-term future at the club. Kuszczak kept a clean sheet in his first game of the 2009–10 season, a 1–0 home win over Wolverhampton Wanderers in the third round of the League Cup. After Van der Sar suffered an injury, Kuszczak returned to the side for a match against Portsmouth on 28 November. He retained his position in the starting line-up for United's League Cup fifth round match against Tottenham Hotspur, the next league game against West Ham United and the last game of the Champions League group stage against Wolfsburg. Kuszczak kept another clean sheet in United's final game of the decade as they beat Wigan Athletic 5–0 at Old Trafford. However, Van der Sar's return to the team in January 2010 saw him lose his place in the side. He started, however, in the 2010 Football League Cup Final against Aston Villa, which saw him fail to save a penalty in the first minutes of the game, although United went on to win the trophy, after a 2–1 victory.\n\nKuszczak revealed Alex Ferguson blocked his move to Leeds United on loan. On 3 February 2012, Ferguson confirmed that Kuszczak would be out of contract in the summer and that he would not be signing a new contract with the club. On 21 February, Kuszczak moved on an emergency loan to join Championship side Watford until the end of the season. He stated afterwards that he had joined Watford because he missed being involved on a matchday and wanted to have a chance of being involved in the Euro's in his home country this summer. He started 13 games during his loan spell, missing just one game which was against Middlesbrough on 28 April due to his wife giving birth.\n\nOn 1 June 2012 Kuszczak's release from Manchester United was confirmed on the club's website. After leaving Manchester United, Kuszczak made the accusation that Ferguson held his career back – specifically that he was prevented from joining other clubs by inflating his asking price.\n\nOn 19 June 2012, Kuszczak joined Brighton & Hove Albion, signing a two-year contract. He revealed that he turned down numerous other clubs to sign for the Seagulls and stated \"I spent eight years in the Premier League and that is where I want to be again. I believe I can get there with Brighton because this club is heading in only one direction, and I want to play my part in helping us get there.\" Kuszczak made a huge impact at the club, earning the Albion player of the month award in early 2013 after several match saving performances. Kuszczak made 84 appearances for Brighton & Hove Albion before being released at the end of the 2013–14 season.\n\nOn 3 November 2014, after a trial with the Championship club, Kuszczak signed a short-term contract with Wolverhampton Wanderers to last until January 2015. This arrangement was then extended until the end of the 2014–15 season. Following an injury to Carl Ikeme, Kuszczak made his Championship debut for Wolves against Reading on 7 February 2015, conceding a goal after 20 seconds.\n\nOn 1 July 2015, Kuszczak signed a two-year contract with another Championship club, Birmingham City. In the eighth minute of stoppage time in the opening match of the season, at home to Reading, Kuszczak saved Orlando Sá's penalty to preserve Birmingham's 2–1 lead. He continued as first-choice goalkeeper throughout the season, and began 2016–17 in post, but was injured in the warm-up before Birmingham's match at Reading on 13 September. His replacement, Adam Legzdins, kept a clean sheet, and kept his place for the next seven matches, even after Kuszczak's return to fitness. Manager Gary Rowett brought Kuszczak back into the side for the local derby against Aston Villa, and he retained the starting spot for the rest of the season as the team narrowly avoided relegation.\n\nHe signed a contract for another two years, but new manager Harry Redknapp's first signing was goalkeeper David Stockdale, whom he installed in the starting eleven. After a \"solid display\" against Derby County in September as replacement for the injured Stockdale, Kuszczak expressed his disappointment at having been \"dropped without any chance to get back\". He kept his place for two months, despite a groin problem, until Stockdale regained fitness. Kuszczak was given time to recover from the injury, but even then, untried youngster Connal Trueman remained on the bench. During the January 2018 transfer window, there was reported interest from Newcastle United and Derby County, but Redknapp's successor, Steve Cotterill, insisted that he would only leave on Birmingham's terms. When Garry Monk replaced Cotterill in March, Kuszczak returned to the bench, but did not play again, and at the end of the season the Polish press reported that he had been told he could leave. Neither he nor Stockdale were involved with the first-team squad in 2018–19, and Birmingham confirmed in May 2019 that he would leave the club at the end of his contract.\n\nKuszczak's international debut came on 11 December 2003 against Malta. Poland won the away game 4–0.\n\nDue to his impressive performances for West Bromwich Albion, he was called up to the 23-man Poland national football team for the 2006 FIFA World Cup. However, in a World Cup warm-up match between Poland and Colombia on 30 May 2006, he conceded a goal directly from a long punt by the opposition goalkeeper, Neco Martínez. Kuszczak subsequently ended up as Artur Boruc's back-up during the tournament and did not play.\n\nKuszczak was named in Poland's squad for UEFA Euro 2008, but was forced to drop out after picking up a back injury and was replaced by Wojciech Kowalewski. A lack of club football at Manchester United had also seen him slide down the pecking order for his country of late, but he was recalled to the squad for the friendly matches against Romania and Canada by new coach Franciszek Smuda, playing in both matches with mixed results.\n\nKuszczak was called up for the 2014 World Cup qualifiers against Montenegro and Moldova in September 2013, filling in for injured first choice goalkeeper, Wojciech Szczęsny, but remained an unused substitute. Kuszczak was again called up by Fornalik in October, for the friendly game at home to South Africa and the World Cup qualifier against England. He was tipped to start against South Africa but Fornalik opted for Przemysław Tytoń after becoming out of the fold at PSV Eindhoven. This game ended as a 1–0 win for the Poles. Kuszczak's only chance to play against England was if Tyton's ankle injury got worse, but it did not. On 14 November, Kuszczak came on at half-time in the international friendly against Uruguay.\n\nManchester United\n\n"}
{"id": "1858175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858175", "title": "Stanisław Tarnowski", "text": "Stanisław Tarnowski\n\nCount Stanisław Tarnowski (7 November 1837 – 31 December 1917) was a Polish nobleman (\"szlachcic\"), historian, literary critic and publicist.\n\nHe was born on 7 November 1837 and hailed from an aristocratic family. His father was Jan Bogdan and mother Gabriela \"née\" Małachowska. He had two brothers: Jan and Juliusz. He attended St. Anne Gymnasium between 1850–1854 and later studied law and philology at the Jagiellonian University (1855–1858). In the course of his studies he made several trips abroad including to Egypt and the Holy Land. He continued his philological education in Vienna and became involved in the activities of Hotel Lambert. During his stay in Paris he worked in the political bureau of the organization and collaborated with Julian Klaczko and Valerian Kalinka.\n\nDuring the January Uprising, Tarnowski was connected with the \"\"Biali\"\" (\"White\") liberal-conservative political faction. He was imprisoned from 1863 to 1865 by the Austrian authorities. After his release from prison in Olomouc, he returned to the country and together with Stanisław Koźmian, Józef Szujski and Ludwik Wodzicki he founded the \"Przegląd Polski\" quarterly. The first copy was issued on 1 July 1866.\n\nIn 1868, he co-authored \"Teka Stańczyka\", a series of satirical pamphlets on the political situation in Galicia published in the \"Przegląd\" magazine.\n\nFrom 1867 Tarnowski served as member of the \"Sejm\" in Galicia. In 1885 he became a member of the \"Herrenhaus\" in Vienna.\n\nBetween 1871 and 1909, he was a professor and twice Rector of Jagiellonian University. From 1873 he was a member, and from 1890 to 1917 chairman, of the \"Akademia Umiejetnosci\" (Polish Academy of Learning).\n\nHe died in 1918 in Kraków and was buried at the Rakowicki Cemetery in the Branicki family tomb. In 1937, his family transferred his body to his hometown of Dzików.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858180", "title": "Christian Democratic Party of Cuba", "text": "Christian Democratic Party of Cuba\n\nThe Christian Democratic Party of Cuba (, abbreviated \"PDC\") is a Christian Democratic political party in Cuba. Although changes to the Cuban constitution in 1992 decriminalized the act of forming political parties other than the Communist Party, none of the parties (Communist Party included) are permitted to campaign or engage in any public political activities on the island.\n\nThe Christian Democratic Party (CD) has the largest structure of any oppositional Cuban parties. A smaller group within the Party called Cristo del Rey (CR) broke away in 1996. The president of the Christian Democratic Party of Cuba is Cuban exile Marcelino Miyares Sotolongo and the international secretary is José Ignacio Rasco, also in exile. Rasco, who founded the Cuban Christian Democratic Party in 1959 is a professor, writer and columnist. In addition, he is President of the Jacques Maritain Institute of Cuba and also President of Editorial Cubana.\n\nThe party's manifesto, (created in Miami 1991) states; \"We have made the decision to found the Christian Democratic Party of Cuba because we wish to offer a political alternative to our mother country in the fight for human rights, economic development and social justice within a democratic and pluralistic framework.\" The party invokes the legacy of Simón Bolívar and José Martí, whom they say \"conceived Latin America as a brotherhood of shared, common and sovereign nations.\" The Christian Democratic Party of Cuba are publicly against all foreign intervention in Cuba, and declare their opposition to the United States embargo.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858182", "title": "Social Democratic Co-ordination of Cuba", "text": "Social Democratic Co-ordination of Cuba\n\n"}
{"id": "1858183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858183", "title": "Democratic Social-Revolutionary Party of Cuba", "text": "Democratic Social-Revolutionary Party of Cuba\n\nThe Democratic Social-Revolutionary Party of Cuba (\"Partido Social-Revolucionario Democrático de Cuba\") is a democratic socialist political party in Cuba. Although changes to the Cuban constitution in 1992 decriminalized the right to form political parties other than the Communist Party of Cuba, no parties are permitted to campaign or engage in public political activities on the island. The current international secretary of the \"PSDRC\" is exiled poet Jorge Valls who is based in the United States. Public engagements by party members are typically restricted to international gatherings of democratic socialist groups.\n\nThe main political aims of the \"PSRDC\" are to persuade the Cuban government to declare a political amnesty and to reinstall a sovereign National Constituent Assembly which the party believes was abandoned following Fulgencio Batista's coup d'état in 1952. They also call for more freedom in Cuba's state controlled press and an end to what they consider Cuba's human rights violations. The \"PSRDC\" is extremely critical of Fidel Castro and the Communist Party apparatus describing the present government as \"unrepresentative of the ideals of the Cuban Revolution\". The party also condemns the role of the United States in the region, requesting that both Cubans and Americans overcome the compulsion to compare the merits and shortfalls of each system, describing such dialogue as unconstructive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858184", "title": "Hortus Botanicus Leiden", "text": "Hortus Botanicus Leiden\n\nThe Hortus botanicus of Leiden is the oldest botanical garden of the Netherlands, and one of the oldest in the world. It is located in the southwestern part of the historical centre of the city, between the Academy building and the old Leiden Observatory building.\n\nIn 1587 the young University of Leiden asked for permission from the mayor of Leiden to establish a \"hortus academicus\" behind the university building, for the benefit of the medical students. The request was granted in 1590, and the famous botanist Carolus Clusius (1526–1609) was appointed as prefect. Clusius arrived in Leiden in 1593. His knowledge, reputation, and international contacts allowed him to set up a very extensive plant collection. Clusius also urged the Dutch East India Company (VOC) to collect plants and (dried) plant specimens in the colonies. The original garden set up by Clusius was small (about 35 by 40 meters), but contained more than 1000 different plants.\n\nThe collecting of tropical (from the Indies) and sub-tropical (from the Cape Colony) plants was continued under Clusius' successors. Especially Herman Boerhaave (1668–1738, prefect from 1709–1730), contributed greatly to the fame of the Hortus with his efforts to collect new plants and specimens, and with his publications, such as a catalog of the plants then to be found in the Hortus.\n\nAnother major contribution to the collections was made by Philipp Franz von Siebold, a German physician who was employed on Deshima (Japan) by the VOC from 1823 until his expulsion by Japan in 1829. During that period he collected many dried and living plants from all over Japan (as well as animals, ethnographical objects, maps, etc.), and sent them to Leiden.\n\nThe first greenhouses appeared in the Hortus in the second half of the 17th century, the monumental Orangery was built between 1740 and 1744. From its original plan the Hortus was expanded in 1736 by Adriaan van Royen and Carl Linnaeus, and in 1817 by Theodor Friedrich Ludwig Nees von Esenbeck and Sebald Justinus Brugmans. In 1857, a part was used for building the new Leiden Observatory.\n\nFrom a historical perspective, the old Tuliptree (\"Liriodendron tulipifera\") from 1716, Date plum (\"Diospyros lotus\") from 1739, Ginkgo (\"Ginkgo biloba\") from 1785 and Golden Chain (\"Laburnum anagyroides\") from 1725 to 1818, are worth mentioning.\n\nThe greenhouses with \"Victoria amazonica\" and other tropical plants, and the large collection of sub-tropical plants in the recently renovated Orangery and the new Winter Garden draw many visitors. The park itself is an oasis inside the old city, with many more interesting plants and trees.\n\nA Japanese garden in honour of Von Siebold opened in 1990.\nA reconstruction of Clusius' original garden, based on a plant list dating from the end of the 16th century, was opened in 2009.\n\nFrom a scientific point of view, the Leiden Hortus is known for its collections of Asian Araceae (among which the Giant Arum \"Amorphophallus titanum\"), \"Hoya\", \"Dischidia\", \"Nepenthes\", ferns and one of the biggest collections of Asian orchids in the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858192", "title": "Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising", "text": "Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising\n\nOperation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising is a military simulation video game for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 developed by British game developer Codemasters. Codemasters has advertised the game as a tactical shooter designed to represent modern infantry combat realistically. It is a stand-alone sequel to Bohemia Interactive's \"\", but was developed entirely by Codemasters due to a falling-out between the two companies.\n\n\"Dragon Rising\" takes place on the fictional island of Skira, in May 2011. After 2008 Global Economic Crisis causes mass unemployment and political destabilization in China, the People's Liberation Army (PLA) seize control of Skira and the vast, newly discovered reservoir of oil there, from the Russian Federation. Peace talks prove useless as both combatants lay claim to Skira due to previous ownership of it. The situation deteriorates quickly and China begins to fortify its northern provinces in anticipation of armed conflict with Russia. Russia, already countering the PLA on the Chinese mainland, calls to the United States to retake Skira from the Chinese. Bound by treaty arrangements made after the end of the Cold War, America agrees and the two biggest armies in the world begin to clash on the island.\n\nThe real-world island of Kiska (on which the in-game island of Skira is directly based) is located on the western end of the Aleutian Islands, Alaska and was involved in WWII. It was at one point liberated by US and Canadian forces after capture by Japanese forces. The developers have aimed to copy the accurately to give players a sandbox composed of natural terrain, instead of artificially designed or procedurally generated terrain.\n\nSkira is a volcanic island with a variety of terrain. At one end is a stratovolcano, in diameter at its base and high, and at the base of the volcano is a section of low lake lands. A ridge of 1,000+ foot mountains runs down one side of the western portion of the island while the other side is generally flatter with numerous lakes and small waterways.\n\nSkira is sparsely populated with some towns and more isolated houses and settlements. An interview with developers suggested that the civilians have all been evacuated ahead of the arrival of US forces.\n\n\"Dragon Rising\" also features a multiplayer mode. In storyline co-op mode, up to four human players can play through the single player campaign together, each human player replacing a computer-controlled character. The player versus player multiplayer includes four maps to choose from on the disk. There are also the pure multiplayer modes Annihilation and Infiltration, with more multiplayer modes promised for after the release of the main game. The game does not feature dedicated servers, and the official servers are still online though sources claim otherwise.\n\nAccording to \"Game Informer,\" there are over 70 weapons in game, all supported by a realistic ballistics system, although most are not readily accessible to the player. The weapons available range from pistols and submachine guns to artillery and large bombs. Depending on the current mission, they are equipped with optics, grenade launchers, laser sights or suppressors. The ballistics system, which simulates the effects of each weapon on buildings, vehicles, and people, is based as much as possible on the real specifications of each weapon (information on Chinese PLA weapons and vehicles is limited in some cases) and also takes into account flight times and effective ranges for each projectile. The balance of the weapons was not arbitrarily created by the game developers, but was based on information provided by real life weapons designers. Learning the best usage of each of these weapons was intended to be a significant part of the challenge of the game.\n\nThe player can play as two different characters: 2nd Lieutenant Mulholland and Sergeant Hunter.\n\nDifficulty levels are differentiated by the visual information given to the player. At the easiest level, standard FPS information is given to the player about weapons, ammunition, squad health, and compass direction via a HUD. Additionally the location of enemies who have been spotted by the player's squad is indicated at the lowest level. Higher levels of difficulty remove this information until none is left on screen. Ammunition must be remembered as well as the health of the squad. Locations of enemies must be determined by listening to AI squad mates and using other visual cues like the direction they are firing. At high difficulties visual effects become more important, particularly at long range where smoke or dust can help to identify areas which are dangerous. At any difficulty level the player may be killed by a single shot. The highest difficulty removes the game's checkpoint system entirely, meaning death results in starting the level again.\n\nIn addition to its standard campaign and modes, \"Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising\" has seven bonus missions that can be unlocked by using codes. Currently, codes to unlock two missions (Encampment, Debris Field) can be obtained through the \"Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising\" Recruit website. The remaining five unlock codes were received by pre-order customers.\n\n\"Dragon Rising\" uses a version of Codemasters' EGO Engine, shared with a number of Codemasters' racing games. The engine has been designed to support \"Dragon Rising's\" wide, open spaces and draw distances.\n\nThe game features both night vision and thermal imaging effects, real-time weather, lighting and shadow effects, 5.1 and 7.1 surround sound support. Other effects include realistic ballistics and limb disattachment. Weapon attachments, a medic system, and swimming are also featured.\n\nThe PC version of the game has a mission editor, which allows players to create their own missions for single player, multiplayer and cooperative game modes. The editor is real time, meaning no pre-render of the work is needed, users press a key and can drop into the mission 'live' to test out or play. The editor supports many features including time of day, visual effects, dynamic weather and Lua scripting.\n\nThe main release of \"Dragon Rising\" was followed by two downloadable content expansion packs, both containing multiplayer game modes. \"Skirmish\" was released on November 5, 2009 for the PC, with Xbox 360 and PS3 versions following at later dates.\n\nOn February 16, 2010, Codemasters Community Manager 'Helios' announced that development of \"Operation Flashpoint: Dragon Rising\" content had ceased.\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable\" reviews, according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\nBit-tech described it as \"a schizophrenic design built over a bland world\" and described the environment as \"an imagination wasteland\".\n\nGameSpot said \"This tactical military shooter delivers tense and engaging action, competently completing its objective in the face of AI blunders and occasional bugs.\" However, GameSpot did note the generally intelligent AI enemies and allies alike, saying that the squadmates are \"more of an asset than a liability\", and that the enemies make you \"feel threatened,\" and are like \"battle-hardened, intelligent soldiers.\"\n\nIGN described the game as unique, fun, and challenging, but unpolished. Despite \"consistent issues due to weak AI,\" they said the AI was decent, and \"not awful.\" Praise was also given to the details and graphics of the PC version.\n\nHowever, some reviewers found that the game \"lacked polish,\" and that despite many finding that they \"wanted to like it,\" it simply did not live up to expectations. IGN stated that the game should not have been released on consoles as it feels and plays like a PC-only experience.\n\nThe sequel, \"\" was released for the Xbox 360, PS3 and PC.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858193", "title": "Alexandre Soumet", "text": "Alexandre Soumet\n\nAlexandre Soumet (; February 18, 1788March 30, 1845) was a French poet.\n\nAlexandre Soumet was born at Castelnaudary, \"département\" of Aude. His love of poetry began at an early age. He was an admirer of Klopstock and Schiller, then little known in France. Soumet moved to Paris in 1810 and wrote poems in honor of Napoleon that secured his nomination as \"auditeur\" of the Conseil d'État. His elegy \"La pauvre fille\" appeared in 1814, and two successful tragedies produced in 1822, \"Clytemnestre\" and \"Saül\", secured his admission to the Academy in 1824. \"Jeanne d'Arc\" (1825) was his most critically acclaimed play. \"Elisabeth de France\" (1828) was a weak imitation of Schiller's \"Don Carlos\", But Soumet's real bent was towards epic poetry. A poem inspired by Klopstock, \"La divine épopée\", describes the descent of Christ into Hades.\n\nSoumet's \"Norma, ou L'infanticide\" (\"Norma, or The Infanticide\") was adapted by Vincenzo Bellini into the well-known opera \"Norma\".\n\nUnder Louis XVIII Soumet became librarian of Saint-Cloud, and subsequently was transferred to Rambouillet and to Compiègne.\n\nHe died leaving an unfinished epic on \"Jeanne d'Arc\". His daughter Gabrielle (Mme Beauvain d'Altenheim) had collaborated with him in some of his later works.\n"}
{"id": "1858194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858194", "title": "Ko Chang District", "text": "Ko Chang District\n\nKo Chang (, ) is an amphoe (district) in Trat Province, Thailand. It is on the Gulf of Thailand's eastern seaboard, 300 km from Bangkok, near the border with Cambodia.\n\nThe island Ko Chang occupies most of the district's land area, along with several smaller islands. With an area of 210 km, Ko Chang is the third-largest island in Thailand by area, after Phuket and Ko Samui. The name Ko Chang means 'Elephant Island' and derives from its elephant-shaped headland. Despite the presence of elephants on the island, they are not indigenous. At present, there are eight villages on the island.\n\nPrior to World War II, Ko Chang was little known. During this period, the few families there made a living growing coconuts and fruits.\n\nOn 17 January 1941, Ko Chang was the scene of the Battle of Ko Chang between the Royal Thai Navy and a much stronger Vichy French naval squadron, in which the French won a decisive victory. Ko Chang Yutthanawi Day, which occurs in late-January at the Ko Chang Yutthanawi Memorial on Laem Ngop, commemorates the Royal Thai Navy's engagement against the French colonialists. There is an exhibition by the Royal Thai Navy, and merit-making and tribute rites are performed for those killed in the battle.\n\nKo Chang is part of an archipelago of 52 islands. It is approximately 30 km long by 14 km, wide. It is part of the Mu Ko Chang National Park, which covers an area of 650 km, of which 70 percent is offshore.\n\nIt is a mountainous island, with Khao Salak Phet being the highest peak at 744 metres. The island is known for several waterfalls, coral reefs, and rainforests.\n\nThe main settlements on the west coast are around Sai Khao, Hat Kai Mook, Hat Kai Bae, Ban Klong Prao and the fishing village of Bang Bao on the south coast. The island's administrative centre is Ban Dan Mai on the east coast.\n\nMost of Thailand receives from 1,200 to 1,600 mm of precipitation per year. Two provinces, Trat and Ranong, receive more than 4,500\nmm a year making them the wettest places in the country.\n\nKo Chang is home to populations of the stump-tailed macaque, the small Indian civet, the small Asian mongoose, 61 bird species, and a number of snakes and deer.\n\nThe Ko Chang frog (\"Limnonectes kohchangae\") was originally thought to be an endemic species, but has also been found on the mainland.\n\nThe island forms a district (\"amphoe\") in the province of Trat. It was formed on 30 April 1994, when it was split off from Laem Ngop District, at first being classed as a minor district (\"king amphoe\"). On 15 May 2007, the nation's 81 minor districts were upgraded to full districts. With publication in the \"Royal Gazette\" on 24 August, the upgrade became official.\n\nKo Chang District is divided into two sub-districts (\"tambons\") which are home to nine villages (\"mubans\"):\n\n1. Ko Chang (), consisting of four villages with 3,010 inhabitants:\n\n2. Ko Chang Tai (), consisting of five villages with 2,346 inhabitants:\n\nKo Chang has no airport. The nearest airport is Trat Airport 17 km from the Ao Thammachat Ko Chang ferry terminal on the mainland.\n\nThere are two main roads on Ko Chang, running the length of the east and west coasts. Both roads start at Ao Sapparot in the north, near the ferry piers. Shorter roads branch out to Ploytalay Resort and Keereephet, Khlong Nueng, and Klong Phu waterfalls.\n\nThe nearest long distance road transport is at Trat town, from where the 300 km journey to Bangkok takes five hours by bus.\n\nThere are two ferry companies that run services from the mainland to Ko Chang. Both take vehicles and passengers. During high season, from November to May, there are passenger-only boat services from Ko Chang to the outlying islands of Ko Wai, Ko Mak, and Ko Kut.\nBoats do not run to outlying islands all year . They stop August / September times due to big seas and low season.\n\nKo Chang's income derives largely from tourism, but some traditional livelihoods still exist. Many of Ko Chang's villages rely on fishing, with Ban Salak Phet () being the largest and oldest community on Ko Chang, in a sheltered location in the south of the island. Other fishing villages include Bang Bao (), at Bang Bao Beach, which consists of houses on stilts built into the sea, and Ban Khlong Son, which also partly relies on rubber plantations. Ban Dan Mai and Ban Khlong Non Si also have coconut plantations, and orchards of lychee trees. The variety of lychee grown, \"Silaman 200 years\", is believed to be found only on Ko Chang.\n\nThe first foreign backpackers started arriving on Ko Chang in the mid-1970s, using local fishing boats, when the island was still undeveloped. In 2019 tourism is the island's biggest earner. In 1982, Ko Chang along with the surrounding area became part of the protected Mu Ko Chang National Park, with approximately 85 percent of the island, together with nearby coral reefs, falling within the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858201", "title": "Kiri-sute gomen", "text": "Kiri-sute gomen\n\nKiri-sute gomen ( or ) is an old Japanese expression dating back to the feudal era \"right to strike\" (right of samurai to kill commoners for perceived affronts). Samurai had the right to strike with sword at anyone of a lower class who compromised their honour.\n\n\"Kiri-sute gomen\" translates literally as \"authorization to cut and leave [the body of the victim].\" Contrary to popular belief, this exact term didn't originate in the Edo period. The real name used in historical sources is either or .\n\nBecause the right was defined as a part of self defence, \"kiri-sute gomen\" had a set of tight rules. The strike had to follow immediately after the offence, meaning that the striker could not attack someone for a past grievance or after a substantial amount of time. Also, due to the right being self-defence, it was not permissible to deliver a further coup de grâce if a blow had been successfully applied. Anyone who was at the receiving end had the right to defend themselves by wakizashi, a situation most common in the case of a higher samurai exercising the right against a lower ranked samurai as those would always carry wakizashi.\n\nSome professions, like doctors and midwives, were not eligible targets for \"kiri-sute gomen\" while at work or heading to their workplaces, as their jobs often required them to push the boundaries of honor. This exception was called .\n\nIn any case, the samurai performing the act had to prove that his action was right. After striking down his victim, the user was required to notify it to a nearby government officer, give his version of the facts and provide at least one witness who corroborated it, and he was expected to spend the next 20 days at home as a proof of contrition. The last one applied even after favorable verdict, although it is unclear whether it applied to the physical author of the death or his superior in case the kill was performed by proxy. Moreover, the homicidal weapon could be confiscated if an investigation was necessary or as a warning for a kill whose justification was feeble, and it was only given back after the 20 days.\n\nPerforming \"kiri-sute gomen\" without justification was severely punished. The guilty party could be destituted from his job and could even be sentenced to death or forced to commit seppuku. His family would be affected too if his properties and titles were removed from his inheritance.\n\nSamurai visiting Edo often did all they could to obtain favorable verdicts, as an unfavorable court decision there could be even considered an act of rebellion against the shogunate. It was usual that clan elders presented gifts to officials in order to secure their support, to the point it was said magistrates earned more through those bribes than through their own salaries. It was also advisable for a samurai to go out accompanied by servants and other clan members who could serve as witness if it was necessary.\n\nA popular incident tells how a commoner bumped into Saiheiji Tomo, treasurer of the Owari-Tokugawa family, and ignored him further when Tomo demanded him to apologize. Feeling merciful, the samurai offered the peasant his wakizashi so he had a chance to defend himself, but instead, the commoner decided to run away with his wakizashi, causing further dishonor. The incident resulted in Tomo being disowned from the Owari-Tokugawa clan. He later regained his honor by seeking out the commoner, collecting the wakizashi and killing the whole family.\n\nAnother happening features a nobleman named Kuranosuke Toda, whose kago was shoved by a commoner trying to cross through. Toda's bodyguard demanded an apology, but the peasant insulted them instead. The samurai then threw him to the ground, but the peasant still started a shouting fight. Watching it from his litter, Toda ordered the man to be cut down. After reporting the incident, the judges approved Toda's decision and did not condemn him. \n\nAn instance of \"Kiri sute gomen\" is described in the story of the Hōgyū Jizō statue. A boy, whose father was killed by \"Kiri sute gomen\", made 100 stone statues in later life, in Kumamoto.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858208", "title": "Naïm Kattan", "text": "Naïm Kattan\n\nNaïm Kattan, (, ) (born August 26, 1928) is a Canadian novelist, essayist and critic of Iraqi Jewish origin. He is the author of more than 30 books, translated into several languages.\n\nKattan spent the first years of his life growing up in Jewish Baghdad, and studied at the University of Baghdad from 1945 until 1947. Those years of his life are explored throughout his novel \"Farewell, Babylon.\" First published in French as \"Adieu, Babylone\" in 1975, his novel was translated by Sheila Fischman and published in English in 1976. The early years of Kattan's life were complicated. Kattan recalls in \"Farewell, Babylon\" the experiences of growing up in a community torn between Jewish and Arab nationalisms, the horrors of the 1941 Farhud, and anti-Semitism, but also Jewish successes in the cosmopolitan Arab city.\n\nIn 1947, Kattan was awarded a scholarship from the government of France, and left Iraq to study literature at the Sorbonne in Paris. Kattan emigrated to Montreal in 1954. In partnership with the Canadian Jewish Congress, Naim Kattan founded \"Le Cercle Juif\", a publication dedicated to building cultural ties between Jewish and French Canada in the 1950, which was the first non-Catholic French-language periodical published in Montreal. Kattan went on to write a literary column in \"Le Devoir\", and for close to 25 years he headed the writing and publishing division of the Canada Council for the Arts Writing and Publication program. Kattan was also an Associate Professor in the Department of Literary Studies at the Université du Québec à Montréal.\n\n\"Farewell, Babylon\" is a fictionalized memoir of Kattan's early years growing up in Jewish Baghdad. A story of life, sorrow, and coming of age, \"Farewell, Babylon\" is at once a history lesson and an homage to Jewish Baghdad. First published in French in 1975 as, \"\"Adieu, Babylone,\"\" the novel was translated by Sheila Fischman and published in English in 1976. It is the first of a trilogy that follows protagonist \"Meir\" as he moves from Iraq, to France and finally to Canada, a personal and professional trajectory that mirrors the author’s own. The work narrates a series of scenes, not necessarily in chronological order, of the protagonist’s adolescence. \"Farewell, Babylon\" and Kattan himself are little known outside academic circles. However, the work is a critical read for anyone interested in the history, culture and politics of modern Iraq. While \"Farewell, Babylon\" could be considered historical literature, the main theme of the novel is coming- of-age. Subsequent themes are identity, existence and love of literature.\n\nNaim Kattan wrote \"Cities of Birth\", a short story about place. The story is a celebration of the cities that have enriched Kattan’s life. This short story is essential to understanding Kattan’s body of work through the years, especially his relation to \"identity\" and \"place\" as themes in his writings. The story is about Paris, Berlin, Montreal and Istanbul. However, the essence of the story is about the experiences Kattan had in each place and his Jewish heritage.\n\nNaim Kattan has been provided many titles: author and critic; academic; pluralist; Arab; Jew; Canadian and Francophone. He has famously never accepted or rejected any one of these titles. Instead, Kattan has embraced the theme of identity and concept of rebirth. Naim Kattan has said that he was born three times: first in Baghdad, then in Paris and a third birth in Montréal (reference).\n\nIn 2013, the Canadian director Joe Balass directed a documentary titled \"La longueur de l'alphabet avec Naïm Kattan\" about Kattan's literary legacy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858211", "title": "The Jew of Malta", "text": "The Jew of Malta\n\nThe Jew of Malta (full title: The Famous Tragedy of the Rich Jew of Malta) is a play by Christopher Marlowe, written in 1589 or 1590. The plot primarily revolves around a Maltese Jewish merchant named Barabas. The original story combines religious conflict, intrigue, and revenge, set against a backdrop of the struggle for supremacy between Spain and the Ottoman Empire in the Mediterranean that takes place on the island of Malta. There has been extensive debate about the play's portrayal of Jews and how Elizabethan audiences would have viewed it.\n\nThe play opens with the character Machiavel, a Senecan ghost based on Niccolò Machiavelli, introducing \"the tragedy of a Jew.\" Machiavel expresses the cynical view that power is amoral, saying \"I count religion but a childish toy, / And hold there is no sin but ignorance.\"\n\nBarabas begins the play in his counting-house. Stripped of all he has for protesting the Governor of Malta's seizure of the wealth of the country's whole Jewish population to pay off the warring Turks, he develops a murderous streak by, with the help of his slave Ithamore, tricking the Governor's son and his friend into fighting over the affections of his daughter, Abigail. When they both die in a duel, he becomes further incensed when Abigail, horrified at what her father has done, runs away to become a Christian nun. In retribution, Barabas then goes on to poison her along with the whole of the nunnery, strangles an old friar (Barnadine) who tries to make him repent for his sins and then frames another friar (Jacomo) for the first friar's murder. After Ithamore falls in love with a prostitute who conspires with her criminal friend to blackmail and expose him (after Ithamore drunkenly tells them everything his master has done), Barabas poisons all three of them. When he is caught, he drinks \"of poppy and cold mandrake juice\" so that he will be left for dead, and then plots with the enemy Turks to besiege the city.\n\nWhen at last Barabas is nominated governor by his new allies, he switches sides to the Christians once again. Having devised a trap for the Turks' galley slaves and soldiers in which they will all be demolished by gunpowder, he then sets a trap for the Turkish prince himself and his men, hoping to boil them alive in a hidden cauldron. Just at the right moment, however, the former governor emerges and causes Barabas to fall into his own trap. The Christians and Turks agree to resolve their conflict without violence while Barabas curses them as he burns.\n\nJews had been officially banished from England in 1290 with the Edict of Expulsion, nearly 300 years before Marlowe's writing of \"The Jew of Malta.\" They were not openly readmitted to the country until the 1650s. Throughout the period, Jews continued to work and live in London, and it is suggested that, while they were not fully integrated into society, they were generally tolerated and free to go about their business, within their own circles. That said, Elizabethan audiences would generally have had little-to-no encounters with Jews or Judaism in their daily life. Lacking actual interaction with Jewish people, English authors often resorted to dressing, voicing, and animating Jewish characters in fictive ways that may have exaggerated their differences in a pejorative, antisemitic manner. These creations have been the subject of much debate. For instance, some argue that the English ban on Jews created portrayals different from those in other areas of the world, where Jews were not banished. These differences were, in turn, different from the differences of other marginalized groups: a kind of double difference marking Jews as exceptionally ostracized. Others go so far as to say that the depictions of Jews in this period placed England firmly as both the primary creator and a propagator of antisemitic tropes. Others still, temper this notion by saying that these images, while perhaps born in England, grew to maturity on the European mainland.\n\nThese tropes could also have contributed to the popularity of plays such as Marlowe's \"The Jew of Malta\". In 1594 Roderigo López, a Converso and doctor to Queen Elizabeth I, was accused of attempting to poison his mistress and put on trial for treason. Racial propaganda was a major element in his conviction, and his execution was celebrated throughout the country, coinciding with the reprisal of Marlowe's play at the Rose Theatre.\n\n\"The Jew of Malta\", given the time of its publication, its main character, and the significance of religion throughout the text, is often referenced in discussions about antisemitism. Some of the conversation around antisemitism in \"The Jew of Malta\" focuses on authorial intent, the question of whether or not Marlowe intended to promote antisemitism in his work, while other critics focus on how the work is perceived, either by its audience at the time or by modern audiences.\n\nA Marxist critique of \"The Jew of Malta\" suggests that Marlowe intended to utilize readily available antisemitic feelings in his audience in a way that made the Jews \"incidental\" to the social critique he offered. That is, he wished to use antisemitism as a rhetorical tool rather than advocating for it. In this, Marlowe failed, instead producing a work that is, because of its failure to \"discredit\" the sentiments it toys with, a propagator of antisemitism. Such rhetorical attempts \"underestimated the irrationality... fixation...and persistence of anti-Semitism\".\n\nAnother viewpoint suggests that those who claim to see antisemitism in Marlowe's work often do so more because of what they think they know about the period in which they were written rather than what the texts themselves present. The author admits that certain of Barabas' features are troublesome vis-à-vis antisemitism, such as his large and often-referenced nose, but suggests that such surface details are not important. If one looks past the surface, it is argued, the play can be seen as uniting all three religions it represents—Judaism, Islam, and Christianity—by way of their mutual hypocrisy. These examples illustrate, though not fully, the breadth of opinions expressed on the subject.\n\nComplicating the accusations of Marlowe's antisemitism, there has been significant scholarly dissension about the authorial nature of the text of the play. These reactions range from suggesting that the text of the play is entirely by Marlowe, but that the beginning was distorted towards the end by the strictures and deadlines of a theater's demands, so that subsequent adaptations and manuscripts have significantly distorted the original text. In particular, observers believe the third, fourth and fifth acts to be written, at least partially, by someone else. Others push back, pointing out that the steadily building climb of Barabas' sins, culminating with his death by his own plot, to be indicative of a consistent authorial presence. \n\nWhile the play was entered in the Stationers' Register on 17 May 1594, the earliest surviving edition was printed in 1633 by the bookseller Nicholas Vavasour, under the sponsorship of Thomas Heywood. This edition contains prologues and epilogues written by Heywood for a revival in that year. Heywood is also sometimes thought to have revised the play. Corruption and inconsistencies in the 1633 quarto, particularly in the third, fourth, and fifth acts, may be evidence of revision or alteration of the text.\n\nSome critics have suggested that the play directly influenced Marlowe's contemporary, William Shakespeare, in the writing of his play \"The Merchant of Venice\" (written c. 1596–99). James Shapiro notes that both \"The Merchant of Venice\" and \"The Jew of Malta\" are works obsessed with the economics of their day, stemming from anxiety around new business practices in the theater, including the bonding of actors to companies. Such bonds would require actors to pay a hefty fee if they performed with other troupes or were otherwise unable to perform. In this way, greed becomes an allegory rather than a characteristic or stereotype. \n\nOthers believe that the suggestion of imitation by Shakespeare of Marlowe is overblown, and that not only the two stories are very different, but the principal characters that are often compared, Shylock and Barabas, are themselves profoundly different. \n\nWhile critics debate whether or not \"The Jew of Malta\" was a direct influence, or merely a product of the contemporaneous society that they both were written in, it is noteworthy that Marlowe and Shakespeare were the only two British playwrights of their time to include a Jewish principal character in one of their plays.\n\nAt the end of the play, Barabas attempts to murder his erstwhile Turkish allies by tricking them into falling through a trap door into a hot cauldron in a pit. In the end, it is Barabas who falls into his own fiery pit and dies a violent death. The method by which Barabas dies has several specific Biblical overtones, and these connections have been acknowledged by scholars. In terms of the specifications for punishment dictated by the Old Testament, it matches the crime in Barabas' case: he is guilty of murder, fraud, and betrayal by a Jew. Secondarily, there is a frequent use in the Old Testament of a device where a perpetrator is ensnared in his own trap. An example of this includes Haman, in the story of Purim, being hanged on the very gallows he intended for the Jews he wished to murder.\n\n\"The Jew of Malta\" was an immediate success from its first recorded performance at the Rose Theatre in early 1592, when Edward Alleyn played the lead role. The play was subsequently presented by Alleyn's Lord Strange's Men seventeen times between 26 February 1592 and 1 February 1593. It was performed by Sussex's Men on 4 February 1594, and by a combination of Sussex's and Queen Elizabeth's Men on 3 and 8 April 1594. More than a dozen performances by the Admiral's Men occurred between May 1594 and June 1596. (The play apparently belonged to impresario Philip Henslowe, since the cited performances occurred when the companies mentioned were acting for Henslowe.) In 1601 Henslowe's diary notes payments to the Admiral's company for props for a revival of the play. \n\nThe play remained popular for the next fifty years, until England's theaters were closed in 1642. In the Caroline era, actor Richard Perkins was noted for his performances as Barabas when the play was revived in 1633 by Queen Henrietta's Men. The title page of the 1633 quarto refers to this revival, performed at the Cockpit Theatre.\n\nThe play was revived by Edmund Kean at Drury Lane on 24 April 1818. The script of this performance included additions by S. Penley. It was considered a successful production at the time. However, in an anonymous biography of Kean published seventeen years later, it suggests that the success of the production came from Kean's performance and his addition of a song to the role of Barabas, and that the play itself, on its own, was a failure.\n\nOn 2 October 1993, Ian McDiarmid starred as Barabas in a BBC Radio 3 adaptation of the play directed by Michael Fox, with Ken Bones as Machevil and Ferneze, Kathryn Hunt as Abigail, Michael Grandage as Don Lodowick, Neal Swettenham as Don Mathias and Kieran Cunningham as Ithamore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858215", "title": "Eternal Flame (song)", "text": "Eternal Flame (song)\n\n\"Eternal Flame\" is a song recorded by American pop rock group the Bangles for their 1988 album, \"Everything\", being written by group member Susanna Hoffs with the established hit songwriting team of Billy Steinberg and Tom Kelly: upon its 1989 single release, \"Eternal Flame\" became a number-one hit in 8 countries, including Australia, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and the United States.\n\nConsidered by Billy Steinberg to be a stylistic fusion of the Byrds and the Beatles, especially evoking the latter group's \"For No One\", \"Mother Nature's Son\" (the bridge part) and \"Here There & Everywhere\", \"Eternal Flame\" elicited different points of comparison from contemporary music critics, among them: \"a backhanded tribute to every sappy string-drenched ballad - from Lulu's 'To Sir With Love' to Merrilee Rush's 'Angel of the Morning' - that ever overstayed its welcome on the radio\"; \"[a] fluffy romantic fantasy [that] resembled the Carpenters a lot more than the Beatles\"; \"a cloying ballad that Andrew Lloyd Webber could have written for Sarah Brightman\"; \"[On] 'Eternal Flame' [Susanna] Hoffs does her best inspired reading of Kate Bush\". \n\nVicki Peterson of the Bangles would in 2000 describe \"Eternal Flame\" as \"a beautiful song [which] at the time I didn't think [of as] essentially [a] Bangles [number:] anyone could've taken the song and made it a hit\". The retrospective AllMusic critique by Matthew Greenwald assessed \"Eternal Flame\" as \"somewhat removed from the Bangles' sound and vibe...[its] gentle, lilting melody...seems ready-made for an artist such as Anita Baker or Whitney Houston... The song features a dramatic bridge that takes the song to a wonderfully emotional place, and adds to the overall dynamics of the piece. In the end, ['Eternal Flame'] doesn't fit the Bangles' catalog well, but it remains a minor pop standard.\"\n\nTwo of the song's three writers, Tom Kelly and Susanna Hoffs, had met via the Bangles' October 30, 1986 concert at the Avalon Hollywood (then the Palace). Kelly attended the concert and met the group's members, including Hoffs, backstage. This led to Hoffs writing songs with Kelly and his regular songwriting partner Billy Steinberg. The trio's first composition to be recorded was \"I Need a Disguise\", which Belinda Carlisle recorded for her 1986 solo debut album. The Bangles' 1988 album \"Everything\" would feature two Hoffs/ Kelly/ Steinberg compositions, both with lead vocals by Hoffs: the upbeat lead single \"In Your Room\" and \"Eternal Flame\". \n\nThe focal metaphor of \"Eternal Flame\" was suggested by two eternal flames: one at the gravesite of Elvis Presley at Graceland where the Bangles had been given a private tour - \"we were taken out to the Garden of Memories, and there was this little box which was supposed to have a lit flame in it, an eternal flame. Actually, that day it was raining so the flame was not on\" - and one at a local synagogue in Palm Springs which Steinberg attended as a child. \"Susanna was talking about the Bangles having visited Graceland, and she said there was some type of shrine to Elvis that included some kind of eternal flame. As soon as those words were mentioned, I immediately thought of the synagogue in the town of Palm Springs, California where I grew up. I remember during our Sunday school class they would walk us through the sanctuary. There was one little red light and they told us it was called the eternal flame.\"\n\nAfter Steinberg suggested writing a song entitled \"Eternal Flame\", he and Hoffs wrote the song's lyrics at Steinberg's house and then according to Hoffs brought the lyrics to Tom Kelly's studio where Kelly completed the music and the demo was cut. Steinberg recalls Kelly also being at Steinberg's house when the lyrics were written, beginning the music's composition there The demo was deliberately guitar-based as there was no keyboardist in the Bangles' core lineup. However, the producer of the \"Everything\" album, Davitt Sigerson, on hearing the demo worked out an arrangement evoking a music box, bringing in keyboardist John Philip Shenale to give the track a chiming effect. According to Hoffs, Sigerson's production of the track was inspired by the vintage recordings of Patsy Cline which he knew Hoffs enjoyed singing along to. Hoffs would also recall that the Bangles' manager, Miles Copeland, overhearing the recording session for \"Eternal Flame, had been displeased by the lack of drums and that Hoffs had to resist pressure to re-record it with a stronger beat. In the BBC programme \"I'm in a Girl Group\", Hoffs revealed she actually sang the studio recording of the song completely naked after Sigerson pranked her by telling her Olivia Newton-John recorded unclad (a falsehood Sigerson eventually admitted to).\n\nGiven that the Bangles' \"Walk Like an Egyptian\" had been ranked by \"Billboard\" as the number one single of 1987 and that the group had reached #2 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 in 1986 with \"Manic Monday\" and in 1987 with \"Hazy Shade of Winter\", the #5 Hot 100 peak of the lead single from their album \"Everything\", \"In Your Room\", was a comparative disappointment with its parent album \"Everything\" - whose original Billboard 200 peak was #33 - considered a flop. The January 1989 release of \"Eternal Flame\" as the new Bangles' single was heralded in \"The Chicago Tribune\" with the song described as an \"old-fashioned killer ballad that is just about as far as one could get from the psychedelic sound of the group's recent Top 5 hit 'In Your Room'.\" \"Eternal Flame\" debuted at #56 on the Hot 100 dated January 28, 1989 - which chart ranked \"In Your Room\" in its final week in the Top 40 at #34 - to rise to #1 over ten weeks, making the Bangles the third all-female group to top the Hot 100 multiple times, being preceded by the Shirelles and the Supremes. In addition \"Eternal Flame\" set a record for the song's co-writers: Billy Steinberg and Tom Kelly, as the first songwriting team to score a #1 Hot 100 hit five years in a row. \"Eternal Flame\" also afforded the Bangles a two-week tenure at #1 on the Adult Contemporary chart.\n\nIn the United Kingdom (see UK Singles Chart records and statistics) - where \"In Your Room\" had stalled at #35 - \"Eternal Flame\" made a rambling eight-week chart ascent into the Top 40 before vaulting 20 positions to #13 on the chart dated April 1, 1989 - the week of the single's being #1 on the Hot 100 - reaching #1 on the UK singles chart dated April 15, 1989 and remaining there for three additional weeks. The single was still in the UK Top 40 (at #38) dated June 17, 1989, at which point the single was deleted to clear the way for \"Be with You\" as third single release off the \"Everything\" album: overall \"Eternal Flame\" would be afforded a UK chart tenure of twenty weeks, ranking as the UK's third biggest hit for the year 1989. \"Eternal Flame\" spent three weeks at #1 in Sweden and 18 weeks in the Swedish charts, and also spent seven weeks at #1 in the Dutch Top 40. The song was Australia's 4th biggest selling single of 1989 and was sent up on the Australian TV show \"Fast Forward\".\n\nRather than consolidating the Bangles' stardom, the success of \"Eternal Flame\" would have a negative impact on the group, underscoring the wide public perception of the Bangles as star attraction Hoffs and her backing band. The choice for third single release from the \"Everything\" album being \"Be with You\", the group's first single led by Debbi Peterson since the band's second single release \"Going Down to Liverpool\" (1984), was an apparent attempt to redress the balance which failed, as \"Be with You\" would rise no higher than #30 on the Hot 100 in the summer of 1989, when its UK chart peak would be #23. The Bangles announced their disbanding the second week of October 1989.\n\nIn 1997, a Japanese version of the song was recorded by Tomoya Nagase, the vocalist of the Japanese idol rock group Tokio, featuring 3T. This song was used as the theme song of the Nippon TV drama \"DXD\", in which Nagase played the main role. He also wrote the Japanese version lyrics. This version was released as a single in Japan under the name of \"Tomoya with 3T\".\n\nIn 1999, Australian group Human Nature covered \"Eternal Flame\" and released it as the fourth single from their second album \"Counting Down\". It peaked at number eight on the ARIA singles chart and was certified gold.\n\n\nEnglish girl group Atomic Kitten subsequently recorded the song in 2001 and released as the sixth overall single and lead single from the reissue of the debut studio album, \"Right Now\". It was the group's first single to feature new band member Jenny Frost. Their version was produced by multi-platinum singer producer Ray Ruffin.\n\nAtomic Kitten made the song another massive success; it entered the top twenty in every country it was released, except for Australia, and entered the top five in over ten countries. In the UK, it entered at number one, where it stayed for two weeks, sold 35,358 copies on its first day, over 140,000 copies in its first week, 70,000 copies in its second week, and over 400,000 copies in total. It also went to number two in the French singles chart. Atomic Kitten's \"Eternal Flame\" went on to sell over one million copies worldwide and was certified Gold in the United Kingdom, France, Sweden, and New Zealand.\n\nAustralian CD\n\nUK CD\n\nUK cassette\n\nDutch jazz vocalist Laura Fygi recorded \"Eternal Flame\" for her 1996 album \"Turn Out the Lamplight\". The song was covered in 2000 by Rollergirl on the album \"Now I'm Singin'... and the Party Keeps On Rollin\"', and released as a single which peaked at #87 in the Swiss Charts. Bonnie Tyler and French singer Laura Zen recorded a version in 2011 which went to French radio stations on Monday August 29. The song was named \"Eternal Flame (Amour éternel)\". In 2017, Shane Filan of Westlife included this fan-favorite song on his album \"Love Always\" which reached Top 3 in Scottish Albums Chart and Top 5 in UK Albums Chart and Irish Albums Chart. In December 2008, Season 2, Episode 8 (\"Comfort Food\") of the TV show \"Pushing Daisies\", Kristin Chenoweth performed the song.\n\nIn 2014, the Bangles‘ version appeared in the How I Met Your Mother Season 9 episode Sunrise as a representation of Ted's difficulty letting Robin go after being the only girl he truly loved for the previous 8 years.\n\nThe Bangles' version appears in a 2019 in American television TV commercial for Amazon Prime.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858217", "title": "Spring Street, Melbourne", "text": "Spring Street, Melbourne\n\nSpring Street is a major street in the central business district of Melbourne, Australia. It runs roughly north-south and is the easternmost street in the original 1837 Hoddle Grid.\n\nSpring Street is famous as the traditional seat of the Government of Victoria, as well as being central to many of the state's major cultural institutions. The street's name is frequently used as a metonym to refer to the state's bureaucracy. Spring Street is also notable for its impressive Victorian architecture, including Melbourne Parliament House, the Old Treasury Building, the Windsor Hotel (also known as \"Duchess of Spring Street\") and the Princess Theatre. \n\nThe street is thought to be named after Baron Thomas Spring Rice, Chancellor of the Exchequer under Lord Melbourne. An alternative theory is that the name is due to the golden wattle trees in full bloom during Richard Bourke's visit.\n\nThe street runs from Flinders Street in the south to Victoria Street and the Carlton Gardens in the north. Nicholson Street begins as an offshoot of Spring Street slightly south to its intersection with Lonsdale Street.\n\nSpring Street has a number of architecturally notable buildings and important gardens, with many featuring on the Victorian Heritage Register and/or National Trust of Australia. These include:\n\n\"*Also classified by the National Trust\"\n\n\nSpring Street forms the western border of the Treasury Gardens. Gordon Reserve, a small triangle of parkland featuring heritage listed statues, is also located on Spring Street. Another small Chinese garden, known as the Tianjin Garden, is also located at the northern end of Spring Street. It is a symbol of Melbourne's close friendship with its sister city, Tianjin, China.\n\nA number of tram routes run along Spring Street for all or part of its length, including the City Circle Tram, route 48 and route 96. \n\nParliament railway station, connecting to most suburban Melbourne train lines as part of the underground City Loop, lies directly beneath and parallel to Spring Street.\n"}
{"id": "1858218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858218", "title": "Scientific drilling", "text": "Scientific drilling\n\nScientific drilling into the Earth is a way for scientists to probe the Earth's sediments, crust, and upper mantle. In addition to rock samples, drilling technology can unearth samples of connate fluids and of the subsurface biosphere, mostly microbial life, preserved in drilled samples. Most of the technology used for drilling come from advances in the oil and gas industry. Scientific drilling is carried out on land by the International Continental Scientific Drilling Program (ICDP) and at sea by the Integrated Ocean Drilling Program (IODP). Scientific drilling on the continents includes drilling down into solid ground as well as drilling from small boats on lakes. Sampling thick glaciers and ice sheets to obtain ice cores is related but will not be described further here.\n\nLike probes sent into outer space, scientific drilling is a technology used to obtain samples from places that people cannot reach. Human beings have descended as deep as 2,212 m (7,257 ft) in Veryovkina Cave, the world's deepest known cave, located in the Caucasus mountains of the country of Georgia. Gold miners in South Africa regularly go deeper than 3,400 m, but no human has ever descended to greater depths than this below the Earth's solid surface. As depth increases into the Earth, temperature and pressure rise. Temperatures in the crust increase about 15 °C per kilometer, making it impossible for humans to exist at depths greater than several kilometers, even if it was somehow possible to keep shafts open in spite of the tremendous pressure.\n\nScientific drilling is interdisciplinary and international in scope. Individual scientists cannot generally undertake scientific drilling projects alone. Teamwork between scientists, engineers, and administrators is often required for success in planning and in carrying out a drilling project, analyzing the samples, and interpreting and publishing the results in scientific journals.\n\nScientific drilling is used to address a wide range of problems, which cannot be addressed using rocks exposed on the surface or on the seafloor. The Integrated Ocean Drilling Program has a broad set of research objectives, which can be divided into three principal themes: \n\nICDP focuses on scientific drilling to address the following questions about the history, chemistry, and physics of Earth and the biosphere:\n\nThe Kola Superdeep Borehole on the Kola peninsula of Russia reached and is the deepest penetration of the Earth's solid surface. The German Continental Deep Drilling Program at has shown the earth crust to be mostly porous. Drillings as deep as into the seafloor were achieved at DSDP/ODP/IODP Hole 504B. Because the continental crust is about 45 km thick on average, whereas oceanic crust is 6–7 km thick, deep drillings have penetrated only the upper 25-30% of both crusts.\n\nThe drillship that has been used for the past 20 and more years, the JOIDES Resolution, drills without a riser. Riser-less drilling uses seawater as its primary drilling fluid, which is pumped down through the drill pipe. This cleans and cools the drill bit and lifts cuttings out of the hole, piling them in a cone around the hole. Japan's new drillship, the Chikyu, uses a riser for drilling. The riser system includes an outer casing that surrounds the drill pipe, to provide return-circulation of drilling fluid for maintaining pressure balance within the borehole. A blowout preventer (BOP) protects the vessel and the environment from any unexpected release of gas and oil. This technology is necessary for drilling several thousand meters into the Earth and for drilling into thick sediments where oil and gas might reside.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858219", "title": "Siddeley-Deasy", "text": "Siddeley-Deasy\n\nThe Siddeley-Deasy Motor Car Company Limited was a British automobile, aero engine and aircraft company based in Coventry in the early 20th century. It was central to the formation, by merger and buy-out, of the later Armstrong Siddeley Motor and Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft companies.\n\nThe Deasy Motor Car Manufacturing Company Limited was founded by Henry Hugh Peter Deasy in the factory that had previously been used to manufacture Iden cars. Deasy left in 1908 following disagreements with his Chief Engineer. In 1910 J D Siddeley took up the appointment of managing director having moved to Deasy in 1909 from managing Wolseley. The shareholders were so pleased with his success that on 7 November 1912 they unanimously agreed to change the company's name to The Siddeley-Deasy Motor Car Company Limited. Siddeley's name had been added to the product's radiator in 1912.\n\nSiddeley-Deasy grew rapidly using Rover chassis and Daimler and Aster engines. They also established a separate brand, Stoneleigh, at first, in 1912, by mounting a different radiator and bonnet on a BSA 13.9 h.p. product but in the 1920s a quite separate car was produced and sold under the Stoneleigh name. Described as a nippy performer its quarter-elliptic springs gave it a curious bounding motion. The Wholesale Cooperative Society took them as vans.\n\nDuring the First World War, Siddeley-Deasy grew to have 5,000 workers producing ambulances and aircraft engines, which included the Puma, a water-cooled straight-6 and the Tiger. The latter was a water-cooled V-12, basically two Pumas on a common crankshaft. They were one of six companies to produce the Royal Aircraft Factory R.E.8 aircraft from 1916. In 1917 three staff from the Royal Aircraft Factory joined Siddeley-Deasy and began to design fixed-wing aircraft. They were S. D. Heron, an engine designer, F. M. Green, who became the chief engineer, and John Lloyd, who became chief aircraft designer. These last two stayed with Siddeley Deasy and its successor for many years. During 1917–18 the team led by Lloyd had designed three aircraft, one of which, the Siskin, became well known.\n\nAfter the war, conditions for manufacturers were difficult, and in 1919 Siddeley suggested a merger with Sir W G Armstrong Whitworth & Co Limited Motor Car Department. Armstrong-Whitworth had been a supplier of Siddeley-Deasy engine castings and they had themselves made aircraft, chiefly designed by Frederick Koolhoven who left the company in 1917 and then by F. M Murphy. By 1919 they had decided to abandon aircraft manufacture and shed the associated staff. Armstrong Whitworth acquired a controlling interest in The Siddeley-Deasy Motor Car Company Limited and changed its name to The Armstrong Siddeley Company Limited.\n\nArmstrong Siddeley produced radial aircraft engines throughout its life, together with turbojets after the war. In April 1920 or slightly later, it produced its own subsidiary, The Sir W.G. Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft Co. Ltd. This last company went on to produce Siskin fighters in large numbers, together with all the later Armstrong Whitworth designs.\n\nIn March 1927, John Siddeley bought the parent Armstrong Whitworth Development Co. Ltd. and its subsidiaries from Armstrong Whitworth, renaming it the Armstrong Siddeley Development Co. Ltd. The name of the aircraft subsidiary, Sir W.G. Armstrong Whitworth Aircraft Co. Ltd. remained the same. John Siddeley reported that since 1919 his company had each year produced more 6-cylinder car engines than any other European producer. The two key members of the Siddeley Deasy design team stayed with the renamed company for many years. John Lloyd was chief designer until 1948 and retired as technical director in 1959. F. M. Green retired in 1933.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858220", "title": "Joséphin Soulary", "text": "Joséphin Soulary\n\nJoséphin (Joseph Marie) Soulary (23 February 1815 - 28 March 1891), French poet, son of a Lyon merchant of Genoese origin (Solari).\n\nHe was born in Lyon and entered a line regiment when he was sixteen, serving for five years, during which he published his first poems. Some small lyrical works of a patriotic nature were published under the pseudonym \"S. Grenadier\" in the journal \"L'Indicateur de Bordeaux\". He was Chef de Bureau in the prefecture of the Rhône from 1845 to 1867, and in 1868 he became librarian to the Palais des Arts in his native town. He became a member of the Parnassiens, with Alphonse Lemerre including some of Soulary's poems in the 1871 and 1876 volumes of the collection \"Le Parnasse contemporain\". Soulary died at Lyon.\n\nLyrical\n\nPlays\n\nHis \"Œuvres poetiques\" were collected in three volumes (1872–1883). His \"Sonnets humoristiques\" attracted great attention, and charmed their readers by the mixture of gaiety and tragedy. His mastery over the technical difficulties of his art, especially in the sonnet, won him the title of the \"Benvenuto of rhyme.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1858222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858222", "title": "Real-time clock alarm", "text": "Real-time clock alarm\n\nA real time clock alarm is a feature that can be used to allow a computer to 'wake up' after shut down to execute tasks every day or on a certain day. It can sometimes be found in the 'Power Management' section of a motherboard's BIOS setup. However, newer BIOS setups do not include an RTC alarm option, although it can still be set from within user applications. Wake On LAN, Wake on ring, and IPMI functions could also be used to start a computer after it is turned off.\n\nIn Linux, the real time clock alarm can be set or retrieved using /proc/acpi/alarm or /sys/class/rtc/rtc0/wakealarm. Alternatively the rtcwake utility may be used which prevents problems when using local time instead of UTC by automatically processing the \"/etc/adjtime\" file. systemd can be used to wake a system and run a task at a specific time.\n\nIn Microsoft Windows there are different programs which could be used to 'wake up' a computer from standby or hibernation. Task Scheduler settings for power management can be used to 'Wake the computer to run this task'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858227", "title": "Memoria Apostolorum", "text": "Memoria Apostolorum\n\nMemoria Apostolorum, which means \"(in) memory of the apostles\", is one of the lost texts from the New Testament apocrypha.\n\nGiven the name, it may be one of the texts which are already known, and for which we have some of the content, such as the Gospel of the Twelve, or one of the apocryphal Acts, or Apocalypses.\n"}
{"id": "1858236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858236", "title": "Furzedown", "text": "Furzedown\n\nFurzedown is a ward, in both the districts of Streatham (Streatham West and Streatham Park) and Tooting, wholly in the Tooting Parliamentary Constituency, within the London Borough of Wandsworth in South West London. It is a mainly residential area bordering Tooting Commons, which provide a large open space and includes Tooting Bec Lido.\n\nBesides containing Furzedown halls of Residence, a part of the University of the Arts London, it contains Graveney Secondary School, and Goldfinch formerly Eardley School, Furzedown and Penwortham Primary Schools.\n\nThe area formed part of the Seely estate, comprising and . Part of the estate adjacent to Tooting Junction Railway Station became available in 1892 and was developed as the Furzedown golf course, designed by Tom Dunn. The Seely estate was sold at the beginning of the twentieth century and the golf club moved to South Lodge, Mitcham Common in 1906.\n\nIn November 2017, Arthur Tingle, who was then nine years old, began a project at Penwortham School. Using Furzedown’s online community network, he contacted the businesses on Moyser Road and local residents to ask about what the shops had been in the past, and people’s memories of shopping in them. During 2019, local photographer Alan Weller and Martin Beaver contacted the people that Arthur had contacted – and more. Their intention is to create an updateable record of the present and enable people in the future – residents, schoolchildren, local historians, anyone – to have something to refer back to from this one year.In April 2020 they published a book of pictures and stories of Moyser Road and its shops in 2019, see www.moyserroad.furzedown.net\n\nRosena Allin-Khan is now the MP for the area having won the by-election in June 2016 - 2016 Tooting by-election.\n\nSadiq Khan (who lives in Furzedown) was previously the MP for the area, from 2005-2016. He is now the Mayor of London.\n\nFrom May 2016, the London Assembly member for Merton & Wandsworth is Leonie Cooper who also lives locally in Furzedown. She is also one of the three Furzedown Councillors on Wandsworth Borough Council, together with Graham Loveland and Judi Gasser, all members of the Labour Party.\n\nThe Furzedown Community Network (FCN), is made up of local people, who are keen to promote a sense of community and help make Furzedown a good place to live, work and play.\n\nFCN works to improve the neighbourhood, organising the annual Furzedown Summer Festival, the highlight of which is the Big Day Out, which takes place in the Furzedown Recreation Ground, attracting a large attendance. FCN also organises a busy Winter Market in Moyser Road, plus smaller events such as quiz nights. The activities undertaken reflect the interests and energy of the group members who organise them.\n\nFACE - Furzedown Annual Charity Events - organises charity fundraising events for a range of local charities.\n\nFurzedown Low Carbon Zone - The Furzedown Low Carbon Zone is a community initiative working to reduce its dependence on fossil fuel energy, while developing local understanding of issues around sustainability and the environment.\n\nSprout Arts - a self funding community arts space, bringing art and crafts to life, in Furzedown.\n\nFurzedown Foodbank - part of Wandsworth Foodbank, The Trussell Trust\n\nFurzedown Youth Centre (FYC) - a safe place for young people in Furzedown.\n\nFurzedown Community Theatre - see Facebook - a group of local people, of all ages, which produces an annual show, usually a pantomime, performed locally\n\n"}
{"id": "1858242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858242", "title": "Feminist Party of Germany", "text": "Feminist Party of Germany\n\nThe Feminist Party of Germany () is a political party in Germany.\n\nIn the 2005 German federal election, the party won 0.1% of the popular vote and no seats. They repeated this result at the 2019 European Parliament election in Germany, were they took part for the first time.\n\nThe feminist Party of Germany is funding member of the Feminists United Network Europe (FUN Europe).\n\n"}
{"id": "1858243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858243", "title": "Supa Dupa Fly", "text": "Supa Dupa Fly\n\nSupa Dupa Fly is the debut studio album by American rapper Missy \"Misdemeanor\" Elliott, released July 15, 1997 on The Goldmind and Elektra Records. The album was recorded and produced solely by Timbaland in October 1996, and features the singles, \"The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)\", \"Sock It 2 Me\", \"Hit Em wit da Hee\" and \"Beep Me 911\". Guest appearances on the album include Busta Rhymes, Ginuwine, 702, Magoo, Da Brat, Lil' Kim, and Aaliyah. The album was recorded in just two weeks. \n\nThe album received acclaim from critics, who praised Timbaland's futuristic production style and Elliott's performances and persona. It debuted at number three on the \"Billboard\" 200 and topped the \"Billboard\" Top R&B/Hip-Hop Albums chart. It sold 1.2 million copies in the United States, where it was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America.\n\nWhile in high school, Elliott formed a group called Fayze—later to be renamed Sista—with three of her friends. The group attracted the attention of record producer DeVante Swing, who was part of the R&B group Jodeci. After being signed the Swing Mob record label, Sista recorded an album in New York, but the album was never released. This led to subsequent termination of Sista's recording contract. Elliott returned to Portsmouth, Virginia, where she and record producer Timbaland began writing songs and contributed to singer Aaliyah's album \"One in a Million\". In 1996, Elliott was signed to Elektra Records and was given her own record label, The Goldmind Inc.. Chairmen and chief executive officer (CEO) of Elektra at the time, Sylvia Rhone encouraged Elliott to embark in a solo career. Recording sessions of the \"Supa Dupa Fly\" took place at the Master Sound Studios in Virginia Beach, Virginia. The album was produced solely by Timbaland.\n\nThe first single released from the album was \"The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)\". As part of the promotional drive for her album, Elliott took part of the 1998 Lilith Fair tour; she became the first female rapper to perform at the event. She also joined rapper Jay-Z's Rock the Mic tour.\n\n\"Supa Dupa Fly\" brings together elements of hip hop, dance, R&B, electronic music, and soul. Music critic Garry Mulholland described Timbaland's production as \"eschewing samples for a bump 'n' grind electronica, strongly influenced by the digital rhythms of dancehall reggae, but rounder, fuller, fatter\". AllMusic described it as consisting of “lean, digital grooves [...] packed with unpredictable arrangements and stuttering rhythms that often resemble slowed-down drum'n'bass breakbeats.\" Elliott's raps were described as “full of hilariously surreal free associations that fit the off-kilter sensibility of the music to a tee.” According to author Mickey Hess, the album's lyrical content \"reveals Elliott's complex, creative, and challenging discussion about womanhood; her demand for respect, respect for her personal voice and her desire for fulfilling intimacy with lovers and friends\". The album's opening track, \"Busta's Intro\", features rapper Busta Rhymes as a town crier warning of a \"historical event about to unfold\". \"The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)\" contains a sample of Ann Peebles' 1973 song \"I Can't Stand the Rain\". \"Pass da Blunt\" is partly based on the song \"Pass the Dutchie\" by Musical Youth.\n\nUpon its release, \"Supa Dupa Fly\" received acclaim among music critics. Writers lauded record producer Timbaland's production as unique and revolutionary. AllMusic called the album a “boundary-shattering postmodern masterpiece” whose “futuristic, nearly experimental style became the de facto sound of urban radio at the close of the millennium.” Elliott's rapping, singing and songwriting also received much acclaim. The 2004 edition of \"The Rolling Stone Album Guide\" rated the album five out of five stars, noting that the avant-garde sound of the album \"made Elliott and Timbaland the hottest writer/producer team around\". Mulholland called the album a \"key prophecy of the dominant 21st century black pop\", noting Elliott's ability to \"avoid the whole east vs. west, playas vs. gangstas mess.\" He described Elliott's style as \"everything the hip hop doctor ordered; a woman who could flip between aggression and romance, sex and nonsense, materialism and imagination, without batting one outrageously spidery eyelash\".\n\nWith the release of \"Supa Dupa Fly\", Elliott became one of the most prominent female rappers. The album is credited for redefining hip hop and R&B. Steve Huey of AllMusic felt that the album was \"arguably the most influential album ever released by a female hip-hop artist\". \"Spin\" magazine ranked the album at number nine on its Top 20 Albums of the Year. In 1998, four out of five music critics from \"The New York Times\" ranked the album as one of their top ten favorite albums of 1997. The album earned Elliott two Grammy Award nominations: Best Rap Album and Best Rap Solo Performance for \"The Rain (Supa Dupa Fly)\".\n\n\"Supa Dupa Fly\" debuted at number three on the US \"Billboard\" 200 with 129,000 copies sold in the first week released, the highest debut for a female rapper at the time. The album remained on the chart for 37 weeks. As of June 2008, it has sold 1.2 million copies in the United States, and was certified platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).\n\nAll tracks produced by Timbaland.\n\nCredits for \"Supa Dupa Fly\" adapted from AllMusic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858249", "title": "Tom River (Amur Oblast)", "text": "Tom River (Amur Oblast)\n\nTom () is a river in Russia, the left tributary of the river Zeya. Its length is 433 km. Its source is near the border between Amur Oblast and Khabarovsk Krai. It flows into the Zeya (itself a tributary of the Amur) between Svobodny and Blagoveshchensk. The city of Belogorsk lies on the Tom River.\n"}
{"id": "1858252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858252", "title": "Australia and New Zealand School of Government", "text": "Australia and New Zealand School of Government\n\nThe Australia and New Zealand School of Government (ANZSOG) is an educational institution that teaches strategic management and high-level policy to public sector leaders.\n\nFormed in 2002 by a consortium of governments, universities and business schools from Australia and New Zealand, the School is home to a substantial research program that aims to deepen government, community and academic understanding of public administration, policy and management.\n\nANZSOG also administers an internationally recognised case teaching program with outstanding teachers and a library of case studies, developed specifically for the use of ANZSOG and its affiliates, in the specialist teaching area of public policy and management, in the ANZSOG region – Australia, New Zealand and the Pacific.\n\n\n\nThe current dean is Professor Ken Smith.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858255", "title": "Australian cricket team in England in 1948", "text": "Australian cricket team in England in 1948\n\nThe Australian cricket team in England in 1948 was captained by Don Bradman, who was making his fourth and final tour of England. The team is famous for being the only Test match side to play an entire tour of England without losing a match. This feat earned them the nickname of \"The Invincibles\", and they are regarded as one of the greatest cricket teams of all time. According to the Australian federal government the team \"is one of Australia's most cherished sporting legends\".\n\nIncluding five Test matches, Australia played a total of 34 matches, of which 31 were first-class, between 28 April and 18 September. Two of the non-first-class matches were played in Scotland. They had a busy schedule, with 112 days of play scheduled in 144 days, meaning that they often played every day of the week except Sunday. Their record in the first-class games was 23 won and 8 drawn; in all matches, they won 25 and drew 9; many of the victories were by large margins. They won the Test series 4–0 with one draw.\n\nThe strength of the Australian team was based around its formidable batting line-up, which included Bradman, Arthur Morris, vice-captain Lindsay Hassett, Neil Harvey and Sid Barnes, and the hostile fast bowling of Ray Lindwall, Keith Miller and Bill Johnston. \n\nDue to the popularity of Bradman, generally regarded as the greatest batsman of all time, and the fact that he had announced that it was his farewell international tour, the Australians were greeted with much fanfare across the country, and many records for match attendances were broken. The record for Test attendance at a match in England was broken three times, in the Second, Third and Fourth Tests, and stands to this day.\n\nThe 1948 Australian team has great significance in cricket history as it is the only side to tour England unbeaten, earning the sobriquet \"The Invincibles\". The tour was captain Donald Bradman's last Test series, and the immediate postwar team was the most successful that Bradman appeared in. It has been claimed that English cricket suffered more heavily from the effects of World War II than the Australians. Even so, various commentators have rated the 1948 Australians as one of the best cricket teams ever, and it is often compared to other great outfits such as the 1902 Australian touring team, Warwick Armstrong's Australian side of just after World War I, the West Indies team of the 1980s and the Australian team of the 1990s and 2000s. This was not a view shared by Jack Fingleton, Bradman's batting rival from the 1930s, who wrote 'the 1948 Australian side to England, side that some critics, ignoring the apparent lack of strength in English cricket that season, dubbed the \"best Australian team ever\" – which was just moonshine. Yorkshire almost beat the Australians of 1948, but his view is very much in the minority.\n\nThe high regard with which The Invincibles are held in the annals of Australian and world cricket is reflected in the various honours accorded to the players. Bradman, Lindwall and Miller were among the ten inaugural inductees into the Australian Cricket Hall of Fame in 1996. Hassett, Morris and Harvey were later inducted, so that 20% of the inductees are from the 1948 team. Of these six, all except Hassett were selected in Australia's Team of the Century, with Bradman as captain and Miller his deputy. Bradman, Lindwall, Miller and Harvey are among a group of only 14 Australians in a total of 60 players who have been inducted into the International Cricket Council's Hall of Fame. In \"The Ten Greatest Test Teams\" by Tom Graveney with Norman Miller ten teams were compared by a computer and the 1948 Australians emerged second behind the 1984 West Indians. Graveney strongly disagreed with the result, writing 'there has not been a better team in my lifetime than Don Bradman's Australian tourists of 1948'. The computer regarded Sam Loxton as a member of the team as he played more Tests in the series than Neil Harvey; if Harvey had been picked the Australians would have been the superior team.\n\nThe three Queensland players selected in the touring party – Don Tallon, Bill Brown, and Colin McCool – were all from Toombul District Cricket Club.\n\nSince the resumption of cricket following World War II, Australia had played 11 Tests and had been unbeaten. In 1946–47, they won the five-Test series against England 3–0, and followed this with a 4–0 series win over India in the following season. Australia were regarded as an extremely strong team in the lead-up to the tour of England, and their captain Donald Bradman publicly expressed his desire to achieve the unprecedented feat of going through the five-month tour without defeat.\n\nThe committee that selected the touring party was Bradman, Jack Ryder and Chappie Dwyer. They held their final meeting on Wednesday 11 February and announced the team that day. The team was chosen with a dual emphasis on strong batting and fast bowling. This was in large part because England had agreed to make a new ball available after 55 six-ball overs in the Tests; a new ball was generally taken after every 200 runs, which usually takes more than 55 overs to accumulate, the rule change meant that a new ball was more frequently available. A new ball is more helpful to fast bowling, so this move favoured the team with the better pace attack, in this case Australia.\n\nAustralia had injury concerns to key players ahead of the tour. Chronic knee injuries had begun to hamper medium-pacer Toshack, and he only made the trip after a 3–2 vote by a medical panel, despite being one of the first players chosen by the selectors on cricketing merit. Leading paceman Lindwall had been playing with an injured leg tendon. In addition, his foot drag during the delivery stride led to speculation about the legality of his bowling action. The injury was worked on ahead of the tour, while Bradman advised Lindwall on how to rectify any suspicion over his bowling action. The Australian captain advised his bowler to ensure that his foot was further behind the line than usual to avoid being no-balled, and to operate below full speed until the umpires were satisfied. Bradman's counsel was effective, as Lindwall did not have a no-ball problem during the tour.\n\nBill Jeanes, who was secretary of the Australian Board of Control and had managed the previous Australian tour of England in 1938, was offered the job of managing the 1948 team, but turned it down. Jeanes had become increasingly unpopular among the players because of an approach that cricket historian Gideon Haigh has called \"increasingly officious and liverish\". He was replaced by Keith Johnson, the New South Wales delegate to the Australian Board of Control. Johnson had previously managed the Australian Services team—which included Keith Miller and Lindsay Hassett—in the Victory Tests that took place in 1945 at the conclusion of the Second World War in Europe.\n\nBefore they sailed for England, Australia played three warm-up matches. The first two were two-day games against Tasmania in Hobart and at the Northern Tasmanian Cricket Association Ground, Launceston; the third was a three-day match against Western Australia in Perth. In Hobart, Australia scored 538/5 declared with centuries by Barnes, Hassett and Harvey in reply to 122. Using a mixture of pace and spin, they reduced Tasmania to 186/7 when time ran out. In Launceston, Australia won by an innings and 49 runs. Toshack took 5/24 as Tasmania fell for 123. Australia then scored 288 before five bowlers shared the wickets as Tasmania fell for just 116, Barnes taking 3/1. Four days later, on Saturday 13 March, the Australians were at the WACA Ground where they found a tougher test from Western Australia. Western Australia scored 348 as Wally Langdon made 112, while five bowlers took two wickets each. Australia replied with 442/7 declared, including 115 apiece by Morris and Bradman. Western Australia only had time to reach 62/3 and the game was drawn. The match attracted a total crowd of 30,500.\n\nThe team set sail on board from Fremantle on Friday 19 March. En route to England, the Australians berthed in Colombo where they played a one-day single-innings match—not limited overs—against the Ceylon national team at the Colombo Cricket Club Ground. The local newspaper \"The Islander\" ran a headline of \"Bradman Will Definitely Play\" and this guaranteed a crowd of more than 20,000. Australia batted first and became suspicious about the pitch as the morning went on. At lunch, Ian Johnson demanded that the pitch be measured and it was found to be only long. After that, the bowlers delivered from two yards behind the crease. Australia made 184/8 declared (Barnes 49, Miller 46) before a monsoon ended the match with Ceylon at 46/2 in reply.\n\nThe party docked at Tilbury on Friday 16 April to a resounding welcome. Bradman announced the delivery of 17,000 food parcels as a gift to the British people from the State of Victoria. Great Britain was still in the throes of rationing and post-war austerity.\n\nDespite Australia's ruthless on-field dominance and a succession of one-sided victories, the touring team drew unprecedented levels of spectator and media interest. Bradman's dominant cricketing stature was a key factor in his team's popularity with the public, especially as it was known that it would be his last international campaign. A leading cricket writer of the time, R. C. Robertson-Glasgow, said \"we want him to do well. We feel we have a share in him. He is more than Australian. He is a world batsman.\" The Australian journalist Andy Flanagan said that \"cities, towns and hotels are beflagged, carpets set down, and dignitaries wait to extend an official welcome. He is the Prince of Cricketers.\" Writing later, Haigh opined that \"perhaps no touring cricketer ... has been as feted as Bradman in that northern summer\". Bradman received hundreds of personal letters every day, and one of his dinner speeches was broadcast live, causing the British Broadcasting Corporation to postpone the news bulletin. Of Bradman's retirement, Robertson-Glasgow said in the 1949 \"Wisden Cricketers' Almanack\": \"... a miracle has been removed from among us ... So must ancient Italy have felt when she heard of the death of Hannibal.\"\n\nAs a team, the Australians were greeted by record crowds and gate receipts across the country, even when wet weather curtailed the matches. The record attendance for a Test match in England was broken three times, in the Second Test at Lord's, the Third Test at Old Trafford, and the Fourth Test at Headingley. The 158,000 spectators that watched the proceedings at Headingley remain a record for a Test on English soil.\n\nOff the field, the Australians were inundated with requests for social functions, including appointments with government officials and members of the royal family, and they had to juggle a plethora of off-field engagements, with 112 days of scheduled cricket in the space of 144 days. Three-day matches were often held consecutively with only the traditional Sunday rest day, although their dominance ended several matches prematurely and earned them extra rest days.\n\nTeam manager Keith Johnson, the only administrator in the touring party, was flooded with phone calls and letters. Bradman later said he was worried that Johnson's tireless work would cause health problems and that \"it was the tribute to a bulldog determination to see the job through\". Wisden said \"Indebtedness for the smooth running of the tour and general harmony of the team was due largely to the manager, Mr Keith Johnson, hard-working and always genial ... Paying tribute to the loyalty of the players, Mr Johnson said there had not been a discordant note in the party throughout the tour.\" Bradman said that \"no side could have wished for a better manager\".\n\nBradman's position as a selector gave him more power than previous Australian captains, who did not have an explicit vote in team selection. This was further magnified by Bradman being a member of the Board of Control while still an active player, a threefold combination that he alone has occupied in Australian cricket history. According to Haigh, he \"was the dominant figure in Australian cricket\", and an \"unimpeachable figure\". At the age of 40, Bradman was by four years the oldest player on the team; three quarters of his team were 32 or younger, and some viewed him as a father figure. Bradman wrote that this was the most personally fulfilling period of his playing days, as the divisiveness of the 1930s had passed. He wrote:\nHowever, some players expressed displeasure at Bradman's ruthless obsession towards annihilating the opposition. Miller deliberately allowed himself to be bowled first ball for a duck in a protest against Australia's world record of 721 runs in one day against Essex. He also deplored Bradman's hard-nosed attitude in fixtures nominally designated as \"festival matches\". Feeling that Bradman was needlessly batting Australia far beyond impregnability, Miller played with reckless aggression, rather than a measured style in line with his captain's aim of remaining undefeated. Bradman's letters in later life, published posthumously, revealed his hostility towards Miller. Sid Barnes later criticised Bradman for his reluctance to allow Ron Hamence—one of the reserve batsmen—to partake in meaningful matchplay due to captain's reluctance to risk Australia's unbeaten run.\n\nAs matches often started the day after the previous fixture, sometimes amounting to six days of cricket a week—Sunday was always a rest day—Australia employed a rotation policy in order to allow the players to recuperate, except for the Tests and matches against Worcestershire, the Marylebone Cricket Club and the Leveson-Gower's XI, when they chose their strongest team. As a result, no member of the squad—Bradman included—played in more than 23 of the first-class matches. Thus, the vice-captain Hassett led the Australians in nine tour matches while Bradman was rested, and maintained the unbeaten run in all of them. \"Wisden\" opined that \"in addition to his playing ability Hassett's cheerfulness and leadership, which extended to off-the-field relaxation as well as in the more exacting part of the programme, combined to make him an ideal vice-captain able to lift a considerable load off Bradman's busy shoulders\".\n\nLikewise, the batting was regularly rotated. The three openers Barnes, Morris and Brown took turns sitting out, while the middle-order was changed frequently and the wicket-keeping duties divided between Tallon and Saggers.\n\nAustralia's bowling attack was led by Lindwall and Miller, who took the new ball in the Tests. Bradman used the pair in short and fiery bursts with the new ball. English cricket administrators had agreed to make a new ball available every 55 overs; at the time, the norm was to allow a new ball for every 200 runs scored, something that usually took longer than 55 overs. The new regulation played directly into the hands of the Australians, as a new ball is ideal for fast bowling and the tourists had a vastly superior pace attack. Bradman thus wanted to preserve his two first-choice pacemen for a vigorous attack on the English batsmen every 55 overs. As a result, Australia's third fast bowler Bill Johnston bowled the most overs, and the left arm seamer Ernie Toshack also had a heavy workload until a knee injury ended his campaign.\n\nThe new ball rule also meant that spin bowling was less effective in the Tests, so Australia only used one full-time spinner in the Tests, off spinner Johnson, until his omission in favour of leg spinner Ring. Together they took only eight wickets.\n\nThings were different in the county matches. As Bradman wanted to keep Lindwall and Miller fresh for the Tests, he generally gave them a lighter workload against the weaker opposition in the county matches, and the three spinners Ring, Johnson and McCool did more of the work, especially as the 55-over rule did not apply outside the Tests. Ring did the second-most bowling outside the Tests, despite not being in Bradman's first-choice team. Bradman even used Hamence, a reserve batsman, to open the bowling at times, in order to rest his bowlers, and in the second match against Yorkshire, decided to bat for an extended period instead of going for a win, so that his bowlers could recuperate.\n\nThe five-Test Ashes series was won convincingly by Australia 4–0. England was captained by Norman Yardley and their batting was strong on paper, the first four in the order generally being Len Hutton, Cyril Washbrook, Bill Edrich and Denis Compton. They were supported by the likes of Joe Hardstaff junior, Tom Dollery, Charlie Barnett, Jack Crapp, John Dewes, Allan Watkins, Yardley and wicket-keeper Godfrey Evans. However, they found the fast bowling trio of Lindwall, Miller and Johnston—supported by the medium pace of Toshack—a real handful, especially with the 55-over new ball rule.\n\nLindwall and Miller were groundbreaking fast bowlers, with high pace and the ability to deliver menacing short-pitched bowling at the upper body of the batsmen. Prior to World War II, pace bowlers were generally much slower and rarely bowled at the body. England were yet to develop similar bowlers, and as a result, Australia were able to pepper the upper body of the opposition without fear of retaliation. At one stage, the Australian short-pitched barrage prompted the English selectors to drop leading batsman Hutton, something that provoked great controversy. Lindwall and Johnston dominated the home batsmen and took 27 wickets apiece, at averages of 19.62 and 23.33 respectively, while the injury-prone Miller took 13 at 23.15. For England, the batsman emerging with most credit was Compton, who scored 562 runs at 62.44. Washbrook (356 runs at 50.85) was the only other player to average beyond 45.\n\nIn contrast, Australia's batsmen had relatively little difficulty against the hosts' attack. England's bowling was largely reliant on Alec Bedser and against a powerful Australian batting line-up he managed only 18 wickets at 38.22. Alec Coxon, Dick Pollard, Edrich, Barnett and Yardley provided his seam support. Jim Laker, Jack Young, Eric Hollies and Doug Wright were the spinners in action. Bedser was the only English bowler to take more than nine wickets. Morris led the runscoring and century-making with 696 runs at 87.00 and three triple-figure scores, supported by Bradman (508 at 72.57) and Barnes (329 at 82.25). With the first three batsmen in such form, Australia regularly made strong starts to their innings, averaging more than 120 for their first two wickets.\n\nThe resounding Australian victories gave the England selectors many problems as they sought to find a combination that could challenge the tourists' superiority. As a result, England used 21 players in all, while Australia only used 15, one of which was forced by injury. Australia had ten players who competed in four or more Tests, while England only had seven such players.\n\nSince the Second World War, Australia had played 11 Tests and had been unbeaten. In 1946–47, they won the five-Test series against England 3–0, and followed this with a 4–0 series win over India in the following season. Australia were regarded as an extremely strong team in the lead-up to the tour of England, and Bradman publicly expressed his desire to achieve the unprecedented feat of going through the five-month tour without defeat. Prior to the First Test, Australia had played 12 first-class matches, winning ten and drawing two. Eight of the victories were by an innings, and another was by eight wickets.\n\nIt was thought that Bradman would play Ring, but he changed his mind on the first morning of the First Test when rain was forecast. Johnston was played in the hope of exploiting a wet wicket and he amply rewarded his captain by taking the most wickets of any bowler in the match. Yardley won the toss and elected to bat.\nThe first innings set the pattern of the series as the England top-order struggled against Australia's pace attack. Only twenty minutes of play was possible before the lunch break due to inclement weather, but it was enough for Miller to bowl Hutton. During the interval, heavy rain made the ball skid through upon resumption. Washbrook was caught attempting to hook Lindwall. At 15/2, Compton came in, and together with Edrich, they took the score to 46 before left arm paceman Johnston bowled the latter. Two balls later, Johnston removed Hardstaff without scoring, leaving England at 46/4. Two runs later, Compton was bowled by Miller and half the English team were out with only 48 runs on the board. Lindwall was forced to leave the field mid-innings due to a groin injury and did not bowl again. Johnston bowled Barnett and when Evans and Yardley were both dismissed with the score on 74, England only had two wickets left. Laker and Bedser scored more than half of England's total, adding 89 runs in only 73 minutes. Both fell within two runs, ending England's innings at 165. Laker top-scored with 63. Johnston ended with 5/36, a display characterised with accuracy and variations in pace and swing. Miller took 3/38 and a catch.\n\nAustralia's openers Morris and Barnes successfully negotiated the new ball by Edrich and Bedser to reach stumps with 17 without loss after 15 minutes. Ideal batting conditions greeted the players on the second day. Barnes and Morris took the score to 73 before Laker removed Morris. Bradman came in and the score progressed to 121 before Barnes was caught by wicket-keeper Evans with a one-handed diving effort for 62. Miller was then dismissed for a duck by Laker.\n\nAustralia scored slowly, as Yardley employed leg theory to slow the scoring. Brown came in at No. 5, but he had played most of his career as an opening batsman and appeared uncomfortable before falling for 24. Hassett came in and Australia reached stumps at 293/4, a lead of 128. Bradman reached his 28th Test century in over 210 minutes, with the last 29 runs taking 70 minutes. It was one of his slower innings as Yardley focused on stopping runs.\n\nOn the third morning, Bradman added only eight before falling for 138 when he leg glanced an inswinger from Bedser to Hutton at short fine leg. Johnson and Tallon came and went, failing to pass 21. The scoring was slow during this passage of play—Young delivered 11 consecutive maiden overs. Lindwall came out to bat at 365/7 and he added 107 runs with Hassett for the eighth wicket. Hassett reached his century and proceeded to 137 in almost six hours of batting. Both fell in quick succession, but Australia's last-wicket pair of Johnston and Toshack wagged a further 33 runs in only 18 minutes before Bedser ended the innings on 509, leaving the tourists with a 344-run lead. Yardley placed the majority of the bowling load on his spinners, with Young (1/79) and Laker (4/138) bowling 60 and 55 overs respectively. Bedser bowled 44.2 overs, taking 3/113.\n\nAt the start of England's second innings, Washbrook and Edrich fell early, leaving England at 39/2. This brought together England's leading batsmen, Hutton and Compton, who took the score to 121 without further loss by stumps on the third day. Miller battled with Hutton and Compton through the afternoon, delivering five bouncers in the last over of the day. One of these struck Hutton high on his left arm. The batsmen survived, but Miller received a hostile reaction from the crowd. The English had the better of the late afternoon period, scoring 82 runs together in 70 minutes.\n\nHutton resumed on 63 and he and Compton progressed before the light deteriorated and a thunderstorm stopped proceedings. Shortly after the resumption, Miller bowled Hutton with an off cutter in the dark conditions, ending a 111-run partnership at 150/3. The innings was then repeatedly interrupted by poor light. \"Wisden\" opined that \"rarely can a Test Match have been played under such appalling conditions as on this day\". Hardstaff supported Compton in a partnership of 93 before being removed by Toshack, and Barnett followed soon after at 264/5. Compton brought up his third consecutive century at Trent Bridge, aided by a 57-run partnership with his captain before Johnston dismissed Yardley for 22. England reached stumps at 345/6, just one run ahead, with Compton on 154.\n\nCompton and Evans continued to resist the Australians on the final morning, which was briefly interrupted twice by rain. After the resumption, Compton was out hit wicket for 184 after attempting to hook Miller. He had batted for 413 minutes and hit 19 fours. \"Wisden\" opined that \"No praise could be too high for the manner in which Compton carried the side's responsibilities and defied a first-class attack in such trying circumstances\". Compton's fall at 405/7 exposed the bowlers and Australia quickly finished off the innings within half an hour. England finished at 441, leaving Australia a target of 98. Lindwall's absence meant that the remaining four frontline bowlers had to bowl more than 32 overs each—Johnston bowled 59 and ended with 4/147 while Miller took 4/125 from 44 overs. Australia progressed steadily to 38 before Bedser bowled Morris for nine and then dismissed Bradman for a duck, again caught by Hutton at short fine leg. This left Australia 48/2. Hassett joined Barnes and they reached the target without further loss. Barnes ended on 64 with 11 boundaries.\n\nAustralia retained the same XI from the First Test at Trent Bridge. On the other hand, England made three changes; the leg spinner Wright had regained fitness and replaced the left arm orthodox of Young, all rounder Coxon made his Test debut in place of Barnett and Dollery replaced Hardstaff as the No. 5. batsman. Following his injury in the previous Test, Lindwall was subjected to a thorough fitness test on the first morning and was only included after protesting to Bradman, who gambled on his inclusion. Australia won the toss and elected to bat. Miller played, but was unfit to bowl.\n\nBarnes fell for a duck, and Morris and Bradman rebuilt the innings, slowly taking the score to 87 before Bradman was caught for the third consecutive time by Hutton in the leg trap off Bedser. In the meantime, Morris, after a slow start, made 105 runs out of a total of 166 scored while he was at the wicket, including 14 fours and one six. His innings was noted for powerful, well-placed cover drives. His dismissal left Australia at 166/3, quickly followed by Miller, left Australia at 173/4. Hassett and Brown rebuilt the innings slowly, taking more than three and half minutes on average for each run. Hassett was dropped three times before Yardley removed him and Brown in the space of nine runs to leave Australia 225/6. Johnson fell soon after and England were well placed when Australia ended the day on 258/7.\n\nAustralia's lower order batted the tourists into control on the second morning. Tallon batted on, supported by Johnston and Toshack, who scored their highest Test scores. Australia's wicket-keeper put on 45 with Johnston—who scored 29. Toshack then joined Johnston and the last pair put on 30 more runs before Johnston fell. Bedser was the most successful of the bowlers, ending with 4/100 from 43 overs, while debutant Coxon took 2/90 from 35 overs.\n\nLindwall took the new ball and felt pain in his groin again after delivering his first ball. He persevered through the pain and removed Washbrook in his fourth over. Hutton then fell to Johnson to leave England at 32/2. Lindwall then clean bowled Edrich before doing the same to Dollery for a duck two balls later. England were 46/4 and Australia were firmly in control. Compton was joined by his skipper Yardley and the pair rebuilt the innings, scoring 87 runs together in 100 minutes. After the tea break, Lindwall and Johnston returned with the new ball. Compton edged Johnston to be out for 53. One run later, Lindwall bowled Yardley to leave England at 134/6 with their skipper dismissed for 44. Johnson then removed Evans for nine, before Coxon and Laker added 41 for the eighth wicket. After 85 minutes of resistance, Johnston removed both. England's last pair added ten runs to close at stumps on 9/207.\n\nOn the third morning, Lindwall removed Bedser, ending England's innings at 215, giving Australia a 135 first innings lead. Lindwall ended with 5/70. The weather was fine as Australia started their second innings. Barnes was given an early life and he took advantage to combine with Morris in an opening stand of 122 before Morris was bowled for 62. Bradman joined Barnes at the crease and they amassed 174 runs for the second wicket. Barnes accelerated after reaching his half-century. Once he reached his century, Barnes became particularly aggressive. He dispatched one Laker over for 21 runs, including two successive sixes before finally falling for 141, caught on the boundary from Yardley. He had struck 14 boundaries and two sixes in his innings. The speed of his batting had allowed Australia to be 296/2 after 277 minutes when he departed. Hassett was bowled first ball, so Miller came to the crease at 296/3 to face Yardley's hat-trick ball. Miller survived a loud leg before wicket appeal on the hat-trick ball. Bradman fell to Bedser again, this time for 89. Brown joined Miller at 329/4 and Australia reached stumps at 343, without further loss.\n\nAfter the rest day, the fourth morning was punctuated by three rain stoppages. In 88 minutes of play, Australia added a further 117 runs. Brown was caught behind from Coxon for 32 after an 87-run partnership with Miller, who was out for 74, followed by Lindwall for 25. Bradman declared with Australia at 460/7, 595 runs ahead. Yardley and Laker had been the only multiple wicket-takers, with two each.\nFurther showers breathed extra life into the pitch, and Lindwall and Johnston extracted steep bounce with the new ball, troubling the English batsmen. Hutton was dropped before he had scored and played and missed multiple times. Hutton and Washbrook took the score to 42, before Hutton edged Lindwall and was out for 13. Toshack removed Edrich and Washbrook in quick succession to leave England at 65/3. However, Compton and Dollery added 41 to have England close at 106/3.\n\nThe final day started poorly for England, with Compton being caught off Johnston from the second ball of the day. Yardley and Dollery took the score to 133 before Toshack took two wickets in the same over. Eight runs later, Dollery was bowled from a Lindwall bouncer that stayed low. Lindwall bowled Laker for a duck later in the same over to leave England at 141/8. England were bowled out for 186, ceding a 409-run victory. Toshack ended the innings with 5/40, while Lindwall and Johnston took three and two respectively. The gross attendance was 132,000 and receipts were £43,000 — a record for a Test in England.<ref name=\"Allen p136/37\">Allen, pp. 136–137.</ref>\n\nWhen the teams reconvened at Old Trafford for the Third Test, Hutton had been dropped. The reason was said to be Hutton's struggles with Lindwall's short-pitched bowling. The omission generated considerable controversy. and the Australians were pleased, feeling that Hutton was England's best batsman. Hutton's opening position was taken by debutant Emmett. England made three further changes. Young and Pollard replaced Wright and Laker in the bowling department. Coxon was replaced by debutant batsman Jack Crapp. Australia dropped Brown, who had scored 73 runs at 24.33 in three innings, for the all rounder Loxton. Yardley won the toss and elected to bat.\n\nThe change in England's opening pair did not result in better results. A run out was narrowly avoided from the first ball, and Washbrook and Emmett appeared to be uncomfortable on a surface that helped the bowlers. Both fell early, leaving England 28/2. Edrich eschewed attacking strokeplay as he and Compton attempted to establish themselves. Compton attempted to hook a Lindwall bouncer, but edged it into his face. This forced him to leave the field with a bloodied eyebrow with the score at 33/2. Edrich and Crapp then engaged in grim defensive batting, resulting in one 25-minute period where only one run was added. They reached lunch at 57/2. Upon the resumption, Crapp accelerated, hitting a six and three boundaries from Johnson. Australia took the new ball and Lindwall trapped Crapp lbw for 37. Dollery then fell for one. England had lost two wickets for one run to be 97/4. After 170 minutes of slow batting, Edrich fell to Lindwall. At 119/5, Compton returned to the field, his wound having been stitched. Yardley fell for 22 with the score at 141/6, bringing Evans to the crease. Compton and Evans added 75 runs, before Lindwall removed the latter to leave England at 216/7.\n\nEngland resumed on the second day at 231/7 and Australia was unable to break through with the new ball. Bedser defied the Australians for 145 minutes, adding 37 and featuring in a 121-run partnership with Compton. Soon after, Pollard pulled a ball from Johnson into the ribs of Barnes, who was standing at short leg, forcing him into hospital. The last two wickets fell and England were bowled out for 363. Compton was unbeaten on 145 in 324 minutes of batting, having struck 16 fours. Lindwall took 4/99 and Johnston 3/67.\nBarnes's injury left Australia with only Morris as a specialist opener. Johnson was deployed as Australia's makeshift second opener, but made only one, and Bradman fell for seven to leave Australia at 13/2. Morris and Hassett rebuilt the innings, adding 69 for the third wicket in 101 minutes before Hassett fell. Miller joined Morris and they took the score to 126/3 at stumps.\n\nAustralia had added only nine runs on the third morning when Miller fell for 31. Four runs later, Morris fell for 51, leaving Australia 139/5. Barnes came in, despite having collapsed in the nets due to the lingering effects of the blow to his chest. He made a painful single before the pain forced him back to hospital. Tallon and Loxton added a further 43 before Tallon fell. Lindwall came into bat at 172/6 with Australia facing the prospect of the follow on. Loxton and Lindwall added a further 36 before the former was bowled, leaving Australia 208/7, five runs behind the follow-on mark. Johnston helped Lindwall advance Australia beyond the follow on before Bedser removed both and Australia were bowled out for 221, giving England a lead of 142 runs. During his innings, Lindwall was given a series of bouncers by Edrich. One of the short-pitched balls hit Lindwall in the hand, evoking cheers from the crowd. Bedser and Pollard were the most successful bowlers, taking 4/81 and 3/53 respectively.\n\nLindwall removed Emmett for a duck at the start of the second innings, bringing his tormentor Edrich to the crease. Lindwall did not bounce Edrich, but Miller did, earning the ire of the crowd. Edrich and Washbrook settled and put together a 124-run partnership in only 138 minutes. This was aided three dropped catches from Washbrook. Edrich struck eight boundaries and brought up his fifty with a six, but was immediately run out by Morris with a direct hit. Crapp joined Washbrook and helped see off the new ball, as England reached 174/3 at the close, with Washbrook unbeaten on 85.\n\nThe rest day was followed by the fourth day, which was abandoned due to persistent rain. Yardley declared at the start of the fifth day, leaving Australia a victory target of 317, but the rain meant that the entire first session was lost. The tourists batted in a defensive manner to ensure a draw. They ended at 92/1 in 61 overs. Morris finished unbeaten on 54, his fourth consecutive half-century of the Test series. The attendance of 133,740 exceeded the previous Test.\n\nAustralia made two changes for the Test. Harvey replaced the injured Barnes, while Saggers replaced the injured Tallon behind the stumps. England made three changes. Emmett was dropped and Hutton was recalled to take his opening position. Laker replaced his left arm finger spinning colleague Young. Dollery, who had made only 38 in three innings, was replaced by all-rounder Cranston.\n\nEngland won the toss and elected to bat on an ideal batting pitch. Hutton and Washbrook put on an opening partnership of 168, the best by England in the series. Washbrook refrained from the hook shot, which had caused him to lose his wicket on earlier occasions in the series. The partnership was ended when Hutton was bowled by Lindwall. Washbrook reached his century and joined by Edrich, the pair batted until late in the first day, when Washbrook was dismissed by Johnston for 143 in the last over of the day. His innings had included 22 boundaries and ended a second-wicket partnership that yielded exactly 100 runs. Bedser was sent in as the nightwatchman and survived as England closed at 268/2, with Edrich on 41.\n\nThe next day, Bedser batted on in steady support of Edrich. The pair saw England to lunch without further loss, and 155 runs were added for the third wicket before Bedser was out after almost three hours of batting for 79. Bedser had struck eight fours and two sixes. Edrich fell three runs later at 426/4 for 111. With two new batsmen at the crease, Australia quickly made further inroads to leave England at 473/6. Loxton then successively removed Cranston, Evans and Laker as England fell from 486/6 to 496/9, before Miller bowled Yardley to end England's innings at 496. The home team had lost their last eight wickets for the addition of 73 runs. Loxton took 3/55 while Lindwall and Johnson both took two. Australia lost the services of Toshack after he broke down with a knee injury. With Barnes injured, Hassett was moved from the middle order to open the innings with Morris. Morris fell for six, before Bradman and Hassett saw the tourists to stumps at 63/1. Bradman did the majority of the scoring, finishing unbeaten on 31.\n\nOn the third morning, England made the ideal start when Pollard removed Hassett for 13 and Bradman for 33 in the same over. This left Australia struggling at 68/3. Harvey, playing his first Ashes Test, joined Miller at the crease. Australia were more than 400 behind and Harvey told his senior partner \"Let's get stuck into 'em\". If England were to remove the pair, they would expose Australia's lower order and give themselves an opportunity to win by taking a substantial lead. The pair launched a counterattack, with Miller taking the lead with many lofted boundaries. This allowed Australia to seize the initiative, with Harvey joining in and hitting consecutive boundaries against Laker. Miller was dismissed by Yardley for 58 while attempting another six, but the partnership had yielded 121 runs in 90 minutes, prompting Wisden to liken it to a \"hurricane\". Harvey then shared another century stand with Loxton which yielded 105 in only 95 minutes. Harvey ended with a century on his Ashes debut, scoring 112 from 183 balls in an innings noted for powerful driving on both sides of the wicket. The high rate of scoring during the innings freed the match from England's firm control. Loxton was particularly severe on Laker, lifting his deliveries into the crowd for five sixes in addition to nine fours. At the other end, Harvey and Johnson fell to Laker in quick succession to leave the score at 329/6.\n\nAustralia was still some way behind when Lindwall replaced Johnson, and 15 runs later, Yardley bowled Loxton for 93, while Saggers only managed five, leaving Australia at 355/8 with only Johnston and Toshack remaining. Lindwall hit out, scoring 77 in an innings marked by powerful driving and pulling, dominating stands of 48 and 55 with Johnston and Toshack respectively. He was the last man out at 458, leaving Australia 38 runs in arrears on the first innings. Bedser took the final wicket to end with 3/92. Laker took 3/113, while Pollard and Yardley ended with two wickets each.\n\nEngland set about extending their first innings lead for the remainder of the fourth day. For the second time in the match, Washbrook and Hutton put on a century opening partnership. Washbrook made 65 and Hutton 57, leaving England at 129/2. Edrich and Compton continued where the openers had left off, adding 103 before Lindwall trapped Edrich lbw for 54. England lost wickets at regular intervals late in the day to be 278/6. When Johnston removed Compton for 66, England were 7/293 with no recognised batsmen remaining, having lost 4/33. Wicket-keeper Evans led a rearguard action as England reached 362/8 at the close of the fourth day.\n\nEngland batted on for five minutes on the final morning, adding three runs in two overs before Yardley declared at 365/8, with Evans on 47 not out. Johnston had the pick of the bowling figures, with 4/95. Batting into the final day allowed Yardley to ask the groundsman to use a heavy roller, which would help to break up the wicket and make the surface more likely to spin.\n\nThis left Australia a target of 404 runs for victory. At the time, this would have been the highest ever fourth innings score to result in a Test victory for the batting side. Australia had only 345 minutes to reach the target, and the local press wrote them off, predicting that they would be dismissed by lunchtime on a deteriorating wicket expected to favor the spin bowlers. Morris and Hassett started slowly on a pitch that offered spin and bounce. Only 44 runs came in the first hour. Just 13 runs were added in the next 28 minutes before Hassett was dismissed by Compton's left arm unorthodox spin for 17 with the score at 57. Bradman joined Morris with 347 runs needed in 257 minutes and they began to attack; Morris hit three consecutive fours off Len Hutton's bowling as Australia reached lunch at 121/1. In the half hour preceding the interval, Australia had added 64 runs. Both had given chances, but England fumbled them.\n\nUpon resumption, Morris severely attacked Compton, who had been bowling in an attempt to exploit the spin, aided by a series of full tosses and long hops that were easily dispatched for runs. This prompted Yardley to take the new ball. Australia reached 202, halfway to the required total, with 165 minutes left. Morris passed his century, and was then dropped on 126. Bradman was given another life at 108 when Evans missed a stumping opportunity. Australia reached tea at 288/1 with Morris on 150. The pair had added 167 during the session. Morris was eventually dismissed by Yardley for 182, having partnered Bradman in a stand of 301 in 217 minutes. He struck 33 fours in 290 minutes of batting. This brought Miller to the crease with 46 runs still required. He fell with eight runs still needed. Harvey came in and got off the mark with a boundary that brought up the winning runs. Australia had won by seven wickets, setting a new world record for the highest successful Test run-chase, with Bradman unbeaten on 173 in only 255 minutes with 29 fours. The attendance of 158,000 was the highest for any cricket match on English soil and the takings were 34,000 pounds. The attendance remains a record for a Test in England.\n\nWith the series already lost, England made four changes to their team. Dewes replaced the injured Washbrook, while Watkins replaced Cranston as an all-rounder. Both Dewes and Watkins were making their Test debut. England played two spinners; Young replaced fellow finger spinner Laker, while the leg spin of Hollies replaced Pollard's pace. The selectors were widely condemned for their incessant changes. Australia made three changes. Off spinner Johnson was replaced by the leg spin of Ring. Australia's second change was forced on them; the injured seamer Toshack was replaced by the recovered batsman Barnes. The final change was the return of wicket-keeper Tallon from injury.\n\nThe match saw Lindwall at his best. English skipper Yardley won the toss and elected to bat on a rain-affected pitch. Precipitation during the week meant that the start of the Test was delayed until the afternoon. The humid conditions, along with the rain, assisted the bowlers, with Lindwall in particular managing to make the ball bounce at variable heights.\n\nMiller bowled Dewes for one with his second ball to leave England at 2/1, before Johnston removed Edrich for three to leave England at 10/2. Lindwall dismissed Compton after Morris had taken a diving catch, and Miller then removed Crapp, who failed to score in his 23-ball innings, leaving England at 23/4.\n\nAfter the lunch break, England had struggled to 35/4, before Lindwall bowled Yardley with a swinging yorker. The debutant Watkins then batted for 16 balls without scoring before Johnston dismissed him for a duck to leave England at 42/6. Watkins also collected a bruise on the shoulder that inhibited his bowling later in the match. Lindwall then removed Evans, Bedser and Young, all yorked in the space of two runs. The innings ended at 52 when Hutton leg glanced and was caught by wicket-keeper Tallon, who grasped the ball one-handed at full stretch to his left. In his post-lunch spell, Lindwall bowled 8.1 overs, taking five wickets for eight runs, finishing with 6/20 in 16.1 overs. Bradman described the spell as \"the most devastating and one of the fastest I ever saw in Test cricket\". Hutton was the only batsman to resist, scoring 30 in 124 minutes from 147 deliveries. No other player passed seven. Miller and Johnston took 2/5 and 2/20 respectively, and Ring was not needed to bowl.\n\nIn contrast, Australia batted with apparent ease, and Morris and Barnes passed England's first innings total by themselves. The score had reached 117 before Barnes fell to Hollies for 61, ending a partnership that had taken only 126 minutes. This brought Bradman to the crease late on the first day. As Bradman had announced that the tour was his last at international level, the innings would be his last at Test level if Australia batted only once. The crowd gave him a standing ovation as he walked out to bat. Yardley led his team in giving Bradman three cheers. With 6996 Test career runs, he only needed four runs to average 100 in Test cricket, but Hollies bowled him second ball for a duck with a googly. Hassett came in at 117/2 and Australia closed at 153/2. Morris was unbeaten on 77.\n\nOn the second morning, Hassett and Morris took the score to 226 before their 109-run stand ended with Hassett's fall for 37. The following four batsmen were unable to establish themselves at the crease and none passed 20. Morris was finally removed for 196, ending an innings noted for his hooking and off-driving; it took a run out to remove Morris. Australia were eventually out for 389. Morris had scored more than half the runs as the rest of the team struggled against the leg spin of Hollies, who took 5/131. England had relied heavily on spin; two thirds of the overs were delivered by the two spinners.\n\nEngland started their second innings 337 runs in arrears. Lindwall made the early breakthrough, and Edrich joined Hutton and the pair consolidated the innings to close at the end of the second day on 54/1.\n\nEarly on the third day, Lindwall bowled Edrich for 28, before Compton and Hutton consolidated the innings with a partnership of 61 in 110 minutes. On 39, Compton fell to a reflex catch by Lindwall. Hutton managed to continue resisting before edging Miller to Tallon for 64, having top-scored in both innings, to leave England at 153/4. Thereafter, England collapsed in the fading light, prompting the umpires to call off play. The ground was then hit by rain, resulting in a premature end to the day's play. England had lost four wickets for 25 runs to end at 178/7.\n\nEngland resumed on the fourth morning and Johnston quickly removed the last three wickets to seal an Australian victory by an innings and 149 runs. Johnston ended with 4/40 and Lindwall 3/50. This result sealed the series 4–0 in favour of Australia. The match was followed by a series of congratulatory speeches.\n\nThe pitch was slow, and the weather was cold and showery for the traditional tour opener against Worcestershire. Worcester attracted a record attendance of 32,000 with takings of more than £4000. The hosts elected to bat, and started strongly as a century second-wicket stand took them to 137/1 after 133 minutes. However, the dismissal of Charles Palmer, who top-scored with 85, precipitated a collapse and they lost their last nine wickets in two hours to be all out for 233. Five Australian bowlers shared the wickets, with Johnson taking 3/52. In their sole innings, Australia took the initiative from the outset through a 166-run second-wicket stand between Morris (138) and Bradman (107). This took them to 265/1, before they declared at 462/8 after Miller had hit an unbeaten 50 in faster than even time. Off spinner Peter Jackson took 6/135 for the locals. In their second innings Worcestershire were bowled out by Australia for 212 runs, with 70 minutes to spare. McCool took 4/29 as the spinners took eight of the wickets.\n\nAustralia elected to bat, and Miller, who had been promoted to No. 3, shared century partnerships with Barnes (78) and Bradman (81). A middle-order collapse then ensued as the remaining Australians struggled against the local spin attack, but last man Johnston managed to hold up his end in a 37-run last-wicket partnership that allowed Miller to reach his double century. He ended on 202 not out as Australia were dismissed for 448. The Australian-born slow bowler Vic Jackson was the best Leicestershire bowler, taking 5/91. Leicestershire scored only 130 in their first innings; another Australian expatriate, Jack Walsh, top-scored with 33. Ring took 5/34 and the hosts hampered their batting efforts with two run outs. Australia enforced the follow on and Leicestershire faced the prospect of being bowled out twice in a day after Johnson took the first wickets to have them 5/83. After a rain delay Australia took the final five wickets for 34 runs in an hour on the final day; Leicestershire were all out for 147 in an innings defeat. Johnson ended with 7/42.\n\nThis low-scoring game was the closest that Australia came to defeat on the tour. The game was played in cold, blustery, overcast and wet conditions that suited spin bowlers. Yorkshire made only 71 in their first innings. Miller mixed medium-paced off-breaks with his fast bowling and this combination returned him 6/42. At the other end Johnston bowled his left arm orthodox spin and took 4/22 from 26 overs. Together the pair bowled almost unchanged, delivering 49.3 of 54.3 overs. Australia struggled in reply and stumps were called when they fell to 4/38.\n\nMiller came in at the start of the second day's play and scored 34 of the next 48 runs added, before falling at 7/86, part of a collapse of 5/27. He hit two sixes in his innings, including one from the first ball that he faced, feeling that a defensive strategy would be almost impossible in the difficult conditions. Australia ended at 101, and Loxton was unable to bat due to injury. Frank Smailes had the best bowling figures for Yorkshire, 6/51. Yorkshire scored 89 in their second innings, which followed a similar pattern to their first effort. Wickets fell steadily as Johnston (6/18) and Miller (3/49) bowled 31.2 of the 36.2 overs.\n\nAustralia were set a target of 60 runs for victory, and Hassett elected to not have the pitch rolled. Former Australian Test batsman Jack Fingleton said that Hassett \"might have made an initial mistake in not having the pitch rolled because whenever there was rain about in England the heavy roller seemed to knock any nonsense [erratic bounce and sideways movement] out of the pitch\". Hassett and Hamence both fell with the score on 20 to leave Australia five down. Australia slumped to 6/31, effectively seven down with Loxton incapacitated by injury, but scraped home without further loss with Harvey and Tallon at the crease. Harvey was given two chances, once when he was on one, and Tallon was also missed. It would have been their first defeat against an English county since 1912, but Harvey won the game with a straight drive over the fence. Wickets had fallen at less than 10 runs apiece, and at the rate of every four overs.\n\nAustralia won the toss and Barnes and Morris put on 136 for the opening stand before the latter fell for 65. Barnes and Bradman then added 207 for the second wicket. Barnes' 176 came in 255 minutes and Bradman made 146 in 165 minutes. After Bradman departed at 403/3, wickets began to fall more regularly, but Hassett held up his end and made 110, while Tallon remained unbeaten on 50. Surrey's Test paceman Alec Bedser took 4/104. On the second afternoon, Surrey scored 141 runs in three hours in their first innings. Johnson took 5/53 and Laurie Fishlock carried his bat for 81 not out, but received little support, the next highest scores being 15 and 10. Australia enforced the follow on and took two early wickets before stumps on the second day. They made continual inroads on the final day, and Surrey were all out for 195 to complete an innings win. Johnston took 4/40 and Johnson 3/40.\n\nCambridge elected to bat and wickets fell regularly. No player made over 33 and the hosts were out in the second session of the first day for 167. Miller was prominent with the ball and in the field, taking 5/46 and two catches for his fellow bowlers. In reply, Australia were already 184/1 at stumps, with Brown heading for a consecutive century. He put on 176 for the second wicket with Hamence, who made 92. Brown reached 200 and was out immediately thereafter, prompting stand-in skipper Hassett to declare midway through the second day at 414/4, having reached 61 not out himself. In their second innings Cambridge failed to cope with the leg-spin of McCool, who took 7/78 as the match ended early on the third morning. Attendance over the three days was nearly 25,000.\n\nAfter electing to bat, Australia made history on the first day by breaking the record for the most runs scored in a first-class match in a day. Ironically, it was the only time they were dismissed in a single day on the entire tour. With centuries from Brown (153), Bradman (187), Loxton (120) and Saggers (104*), Australia's first innings totalled 721; they were dismissed on the close of the first day's play. Bradman's 187 came in 155 minutes and Brown's 153 lasted three hours; the pair put on 219 in 90 minutes after Barnes fell for 79 at 145/1. Bradman came in and seized the initiative, reaching 42 in the 20 minutes before lunch, including five fours from one over by Frank Vigar which subsequently entered Essex club folklore. Bradman and Brown were parted when the latter fell at 364/2 only halfway through the day's play. Miller then famously deliberately allowed himself to be bowled first ball as a protest against Australia's merciless crushing of their hosts, something that angered his captain and batting partner Bradman. Miller later told Dickie Bird that he had wanted to go to the local horse races, but this was refused by Bradman. The all rounder therefore made his duck in protest, but still did not get to go to the races. Later, Loxton and Saggers made 166 in 65 minutes for the sixth wicket, before a late-order collapse saw Australia lose 5/57, leaving Saggers unbeaten, but not before he reached the only first-class century of his career. After being demoralised by the Australian batsmen on the first day, Essex made only 83 in their first innings, capitulating within 37 overs. Toshack took 5/31 and Miller 3/14, and Australia enforced the follow-on. Essex's second innings appeared to be heading the same way when four early wickets to Johnson had them at 46/6. However, a partnership of 133 between Tom Pearce and Peter Smith for the seventh wicket salvaged some respectability before they were out for 187. Johnson ended with 6/37 as the Australians dismissed their hosts twice in a single day. The ground attendance of 32,000 was a record.\n\nAustralia batted first after Hassett won the toss, and the opening pair of Brown and Morris put on 139. Brown scored his third century in succession, before being out lbw to Indian Test player Abdul Hafeez Kardar for 108. Morris, Loxton, McCool and Ring all reached 50 as the Australians posted 431. Oxford's best batting performance came in the form of a 75-run partnership between Geoffrey Keighley and Kardar in their first innings, resisting the spin bowlers on the dry wicket. Despite Kardar's innings of 54 and 29, the top-score in both innings, Australia won by an innings and 90 runs as wickets fell steadily. The wickets were spread evenly among the tourists; Toshack took three in each innings, while Johnston and McCool totalled four for the match.\n\nThe MCC fielded seven players who would represent England in the Tests, and with two other capped players, were basically a full strength Test team, as were Australia, who fielded their first-choice team. Barring one change in the bowling department, the same team lined up for Australia in the First Test, with the top six batsmen in the same position. It was a chance to gain a psychological advantage. After winning the toss, Australia batted first. After the loss of Morris early, Barnes (81) and Bradman (98) set about regaining the ascendancy with a 160-run stand. Bradman scored eleven fours in his 98, which took two hours, and Hassett then took over and added 51. Miller then saw Australia to stumps at 407/5. He continued the next day and Australia's highest scorer with 163, and Johnson supported him with 80. Despite a collapse which saw the last five wickets fall for 54 runs following the pair's departure, Australia reached 552. Bradman's batsmen gained a psychological advantage ahead of the Tests by attacking the off spin of Jim Laker. They hit nine sixes from the English Test representative on the second morning.\n\nMiller and Lindwall then sought to gain an advantage over England's leading batsmen—Hutton and Compton—before the Tests. The MCC side, composed almost entirely of Test players, reached 91/2, Toshack removed Compton and Hutton in quick succession to reduce the hosts to 104/5. He took three more wickets to end with 6/51 as the MCC were eventually dismissed for 189, conceding a first innings lead of 363 runs. Some English observers decried Toshack's leg stump attack as being negative, but former Australian Test batsman Jack Fingleton said that Toshack's line was close enough to leg stump that most balls had to be played. Bradman opted to enforce the follow on, and his spinners did most of the damage, McCool taking 4/35 and Johnson 3/37. Only Len Hutton of the locals batsmen passed 26 during the match, scoring 52 and 64, and Australia had taken a key psychological victory ahead of the Tests with an innings victory. The total attendance was 60,000.\n\nThe first day was abandoned due to rain. Australia lost the toss and were sent in to bat on a drying pitch. The 19-year-old Lancashire spin bowler Malcolm Hilton took Bradman's wicket twice in the match, causing a media sensation. Hilton bowled Bradman with an arm ball for 11, the Australian captain's first score on tour below 80. The Australian batsmen failed to capitalise on their starts as six were dismissed between 20 and 40. Australia looked set to concede a lead for the first time on tour as the hosts reached 3/129, but Johnston (5/49) took five of the last seven wickets for 28 runs in Lancashire's only innings, which ended on the third morning. With a result impossible, Australia had time for batting practice. Bradman reached 43, and when Hilton came on, the Australian captain, perhaps perturbed by earlier events, attempted to hit the spinner out of the attack. After missing the first two balls, Bradman charged the third, swung and missed, fell over and was stumped. Harvey (76*) and Hamence (49*) shared an unbeaten fifth-wicket partnership of 122 after Loxton made 52.\n\nIn Nottinghamshire's first innings, Ray Lindwall took 6/14 from 15.1 overs, with only 10 scoring strokes being made off him. Reg Simpson made 74 and Joe Hardstaff junior 48, but only one other batsman reached double figures. After their 98-run third-wicket stand was broken, Australia took 8/68 to bowl the hosts out for 179. Lindwall, conceded less than a run per over. Only ten of his balls were scored from and not a single run was taken from his last 30 balls. Fingleton said that Lindwall \"absolutely paralysed\" the batsmen, with some of his bowling \"in the real Larwood manner\". Australia only batted once, and Brown top-scored with 122 in 3 hours 45 minutes, while Bradman added 86. The Australia middle-order fell away and the tourists lost their last six wickets for 74 runs. In the county's second innings, Keeton was hit in the chest by one of Lindwall's deliveries and took no further part in the match. On the final day, Hardstaff hit the first century against the Australians on the tour, 107, and Simpson again batted well, making 70. Lindwall and the Australian pacemen were less incisive in the second innings, and Ring and Johnson took four and three wickets respectively.\n\nHampshire won the toss and elected to bat against the Australians, who were led by Hassett while Bradman rested. The Australians were behind on the first innings for the first time on the tour and the match remained in the balance until the third afternoon. On a drying pitch, the hosts reached 116/3 before losing their remaining wickets for 79 to be all out for 195, while Johnston took 6/74. In reply, Australia fared worse and collapsed from 2/70 and made only 117. Charles Knott's off spin proved challenging for the Australians, but Miller scored three successive sixes from him before the collapse, top-scoring with 39. In their second innings, both Miller and Johnston took five Hampshire wickets. John Arnold top-scored for the hosts in both innings, with 48 and 42. Australia needed 182 runs in 175 minutes to win. Barnes went for a duck but Johnson, sent in five minutes before lunch, hit 74 out of a second-wicket partnership of 105, including three sixes and seven fours. Brown, with 81 not out, and Hassett saw the Australians through to victory.\n\nLindwall won the match for the Australians with his bowling, taking 11/59. After winning the toss, the Sussex batsmen struggled with his length and variation of pace, and he hit the off-stump five times in the first innings alone to end with 6/34. Loxton also bowled well in the first innings, taking 3/13. Australia replied to Sussex's 86 strongly, and were already 254/1 by the end of the first day. Powered by Morris's 184 and with centuries too for Bradman (109) and Harvey (100*), Australia added a further 295 runs on the second day to declare at 549/5. They then still had time to send down 63.3 overs, enough to finish the match within two days. In Sussex's second innings Lindwall took two wickets in the first over. Harry Parks made 61, but Sussex were all out for 138, losing their last seven wickets for 59. In all, eight of Lindwall's wickets were bowled, five these by swinging yorkers, the batsmen unable to counter the swerving deliveries. Fingleton said that \"Lindwall bundled the stumps over in all directions\" as Sussex \"crumpled completely ... in as depressing a batting performance as the tour knew\". At the other end, Toshack helped to pin down the batsmen for Lindwall. He delivered 17 overs that yielded only three scoring shots for a total of six runs.\n\nStarting the day after the First Test, the Northamptonshire match was interrupted by rain. Northamptonshire batted first and collapsed to 7/61 before some tail-end resistance took them to 119; Johnston and Johnson took three wickets each. The Australians passed the locals' score on the first afternoon, and their innings was built around Hassett's 127, which included 17 fours. Morris and McCool also made fifties. Northamptonshire made 169 runs in their second innings, Johnston and Ring taking four wickets each. In neither of the county innings did any player reach 50.\n\nThe Australians were made to work hard for their 249, with only Bradman reaching 50. Harvey and Hamence passed 40 but could not convert their starts into large scores. Alec Coxon took 4/66 for the hosts and was selected for the Second Test. Yorkshire made 206 in reply, Toshack taking 7/81 and Johnston 3/101: together, they bowled 81.1 of the 90.1 overs in the innings. Like the Australians, the local batsmen struggled to make the most of their starts; eight batsmen reached double figures but none passed 40. Not wanting to tire his bowlers ahead of the Second Test, Bradman declared Australia's second innings with a lead of 328 runs and only seventy minutes of play remaining. Brown hit 113 and Bradman himself 86, putting on 154 for the second wicket. Yardley expressed his displeasure by bowling his part-timers and then promoting tailenders to the upper half of the order in the second innings. The Australians batted in leisurely fashion with no urgency to force a result. Bradman then allowed his second-string bowlers to deliver 24 of the 27 overs as the match petered into a draw. The Australians were booed from the field by the spectators.\n\nAustralia won the toss and sent Surrey in to bat. They made 221, and Jack Parker top-scored with 76 in an uneven effort in which there were six single-figure scores. As the match started the day after the Second Test, Bradman let most of his second-string bowlers do the work to rest his first-choice bowlers, and Ring took three wickets, while the Test players only took two in total. Hamence opened the batting for Australia—Brown injured a finger while fielding—but he was out for a duck. Hassett (139) and Bradman (128) then put on 231, Bradman making his sixth century of the tour. However, the Australians lost wickets steadily thereafter to be all out for 389. Surrey made 289 in their second innings, with McCool taking 6/113 after bowling more than 40% of the overs. The hosts batted steadily with three fifties, but wickets fell regularly and only one partnership greater than 40 materialised. The tourists wanted to finish the run-chase quickly so they could watch fellow Australian John Bromwich play in the Wimbledon tennis final. Harvey and Loxton volunteered and chased down the 122 runs needed for victory in just 58 minutes to complete a 10-wicket win in just 20.1 overs. Harvey ended unbeaten on 73 and the Australians arrived at Wimbledon in time.\n\nThe Australians elected to bat and made the highest score of the tour, and it was also the second biggest score by an Australian team in England (the 1893 team made 843 against a \"Oxford and Cambridge Universities Past and Present\" at Portsmouth), and the highest score by an Australian team versus an English county. Morris's 290, made from 466 balls in five hours, was the highest individual score of the tour, and he featured in century stands with Barnes, Miller and Harvey. Loxton made 159 not out, Harvey 95 and McCool 76. This match preceded the Third Test, and off spinner Tom Goddard was regarded as a candidate for England selection after strong performances in county cricket. However, Morris and Loxton's aggressive attack gave Goddard figures of 0/186 from 32 overs, effectively ending his chances of selection. Former English Test paceman Maurice Tate said \"Tom [Goddard] is not used to batsmen using their feet to him ... the county batsmen diddle and diddle [shuffle about indecisively instead of quickly moving into position and attacking] to him and that gets him many wickets.\" Instead, it was Loxton who forced his way into the Third Test.\n\nGloucestershire replied with an innings of 279, in which Jack Crapp made 100 not out, while Johnson took 6/68. Made to follow on during the final day, the hosts made only 132, losing their last eight wickets for 60. Johnson took 5/32 to end with 11/100 for the match, while Ring took 5/47 to end with seven for the match. Australia's spinners took 19 wickets.\n\nDenis Compton hit a cautious 62, but Middlesex lost wickets regularly to fall from 1/78 to 203 all out. Five bowlers shared the wickets, Johnston and Loxton taking three apiece. At one stage, Australia were 53/3, but Morris (109) and Loxton (123) put on a partnership of 172. No other batsman bettered Hamence's 30, and Jim Sims took 6/65 as the Australians collapsed and lost their last six wickets for 46. Middlesex scored 135 in their second innings, with only John Dewes (51) and Leslie Compton resisting the tourists, while eight managed only single figures. Five bowlers shared the wickets, and McCool was the only one to take three. McCool and Ring made the 22 required for victory in four overs.\n\nThe Australians chose to bat first, and Brown top scored with 140, his first 50 taking three hours. He shared century stands with Bradman, who made 62, and Miller (57). Loxton later made 51 as the Australians fell away late in the innings, losing 7/142. Derbyshire made 240 in their first innings with the future Test umpire Charlie Elliott top-scoring with 57, while Miller, Johnston and Ring taking three wicket apiece. The county followed on 216 behind after losing their last six wickets for 64 runs. In their second innings they made 182, with Denis Smith making 88, the highest individual score ever made by a Derbyshire player against the Australians. However, only one other player reached double figures, as McCool precipitated a collapse of 9/72, taking 6/77, while Loxton took 3/16. There was a Derbyshire record attendance of 17,000 on the first day.\n\nRain prevented play after 3pm on the second day. No one scored more than 40 as Glamorgan elected to bat and made 197, with the four Australian bowlers, Lindwall, Miller, Johnson and Ring sharing the wickets. The Australians' 215/3 was based on an aggressive 84 from Miller, with five sixes and seven fours, and a partnership of 126 with stand-in Hassett, who was 71 not out when the rain came. The attendance on the two days of play totalled 50,000.\n\nBradman put Warwickshire in to bat on a wet pitch and the hosts struggled to 138 in an innings that lasted almost 80 overs. Martin Donnelly (28) was the only batsman to pass 20, and Lindwall and Johnson took three wickets each. Australia scored 254 in reply; Hassett top-scored with 68, Lindwall made 45, and the pair's partnership of 70 was the highest of the match. Three other batsmen reached 30, but most of the Australians were uncomfortable against the leg spin of Eric Hollies, who opened the bowling and took 8/107, the best innings analysis against the Australians on the whole tour. This performance earned the Warwickshire bowler a call-up for the fifth and final Test. In their second innings Warwickshire made 155 runs, Johnston and McCool taking four wickets each, the former conceding only 32 from 39 overs. Australia made the required 41 by lunch on the third day.\n\nCyril Washbrook's benefit match brought him a then record sum, £14,000, but it was a mixed experience because he injured his right thumb whilst facing Lindwall and withdrew from the England team for the Fifth Test. The Australians scored 321 in their first innings with only Barnes (67) reaching 50. Nine of the Australians made a start, reaching 14, but could not capitalise on their opportunities, and they lost wickets at regular intervals after an opening stand of 123. The slow left-arm bowler William Roberts took 6/73. Lancashire replied with 130 of which Washbrook made 38, while Lindwall and Johnson took three wickets apiece, but the Australians did not enforce the follow on. Australia made 265/5 declared and Bradman scored an unbeaten 133, his highest at Old Trafford, with 90 for Barnes. Bradman declared at lunch on the third day after batting the hosts out of the match, but they held on with three wickets in hand after losing two late in the day. Ikin had reached 99 after being repeatedly hit by bouncers. Bradman took the second new ball and gave it to Miller, who refused to bowl, saying that he felt Ikin deserved a century. Lindwall (4/27) was then given the ball and promptly removed Ikin one run short of his century.\n\nIn the absence of the resting Bradman, Hassett won the toss and elected to bat. Attendance was 17,000 on the first day of this two-day non-first-class match. Rain prevented any play on the second day. After a poor start that saw them fall to 22/3, McCool (64) and Miller (55) made half-centuries for the Australians. Many of the Australians made starts and six scores passed 20, but none went on. Paceman Keith Jackson took 5/76 for the hosts. Five Australian bowlers each took one wicket and Jackson top-scored with 23 before rain ended the match.\n\nAustralia elected to bat first and Brown made 106, while Bradman (65) and Harvey (60) both scored half-centuries. Kent collapsed to the lowest score of the tour in the first innings, succumbing in only 23 overs. Johnston and Loxton both took 3/10, and six local batsmen made ducks. Forced to follow on, half the Kent side were out for 45 in the second innings. Tony Pawson and Godfrey Evans added 71, but the match, held in front of record crowds for the ground, ended inside two days, soon after Evans was run out. It took the Australians less than 56 overs to get 20 wickets. Lindwall took 4/37 in the second innings; all his wickets were top-order batsmen.\n\nIn his last match at Lord's, Bradman won the toss and made his ninth century (150) of the tour against a side composed almost entirely of Test players. Brown (120) and Hassett (200*) also scored centuries, and Miller made 69. Bradman elected to bat into the second day. The Gentlemen responded with 242 of which Reg Simpson made 60 and, following on, 284, with Bill Edrich making 128. There were no other scores beyond 30 in either innings. Ring took 5/70 for the innings and eight for the match, while Johnson secured seven wickets. The Victorian spin duo bowled the majority of the overs in both innings.\n\nAfter winning the toss, the Australians made all their runs on the first day, with centuries for Hassett (103), Harvey (126) and Johnson (113*) and 99 for Hamence. The Australians put on 255 for the second wicket, through Hassett and Barnes, who was replaced by Harvey after retiring ill. The other Australian batsmen had all made centuries, and were keen to see Hamence do the same. The rest of the team left their card games in readiness to applaud his impending milestone, only to see him stumped for 99, his highest score for the season. On the Monday, the second day, on a pitch that was taking spin, Somerset collapsed twice inside four hours and less than 82 overs in total. McCool took 4/21 and 4/23, and Johnston also took eight, including 5/34 in the second innings. He took the last two wickets of the Somerset first innings as a spinner, and then had Harold Gimblett lbw with the second ball of the second innings as a fast-medium bowler to take three wickets in four balls.\n\nThe tourists elected to bat and after losing the openers early, Hassett top scored with 151, his third consecutive century. He was supported by Bradman (143) and Harvey (110), whose quick scoring enabled the Australians to declare with a large total. Hassett shared partnerships in excess of 150 with both Bradman and Harvey. Harvey's century took only 90 minutes and Loxton hit 67 in 75 minutes on the second day. The second and third days were continually interrupted by rain, and Compton made 82 in the showers. Bradman gave his regular bowlers a light workload and Brown took 4/16 in 4.1 overs to finish off the tail, the only time he bowled in first-class matches on the entire tour. There was no time left for the second innings.\n\nThis was the final match for Bradman in England, and the ground was crowded despite rain interruptions. It was Australia's biggest challenge in the post-Test tour matches. During the last Australian campaign in 1938, this team was effectively a full-strength England outfit, but this time Bradman insisted that only six current England Test players be allowed to play. Bradman then fielded a full-strength team, with the only difference from the Fifth Test line-up being the inclusion of Johnson at the expense of Ring. The host captain Walter Robins won the toss and decided to bat, but Lindwall took 6/59 in an innings that lasted into the second day, bowling four of his victims and taking five of the last six wickets to fall as the hosts lost their last six wickets for 57 runs. Bradman and Barnes made 153 and 151 respectively, sharing a second-wicket partnership of 225 after Morris was out for 62. Loxton hit a ball from Freddie Brown into his own face, breaking his nose. Australia reached 2/407 on the third and final afternoon before collapsing to 8/469 before Bradman declared without attempting to force a result. Leveson-Gower's XI played out time, with Bradman bowling the last over.\n\nThe match against Scotland was a two-day fixture that did not have first-class status. Australia elected to bat and Morris top-scored with 112, and McCool made 52, but all struggled against the leg-spin of William Laidlaw, who took 5/51. The Australians collapsed at the end, losing their last six wickets for 36 runs, and only three made double figures. Scotland collapsed against Johnston and Johnson, who took 6/15 and 3/18 respectively. Forced to follow on, a second innings opening stand of 50 preceded a second collapse, this time Ring and Morris took 4/20 and 5/10. Only three Scottish players passed double figures in either innings.\n\nIn another two-day non-first-class match, Scotland batted better than in Edinburgh after being sent in to bat, but still lost. Tom Crosskey top-scored with 49 in the hosts' 178, before Bradman top-scored with 123 in his last match in Britain and McCool, promoted to open, made 108, while Johnson made 95 after being promoted to No. 5. Scotland then made 142 in some light-hearted cricket in which wicketkeeper Tallon took two wickets and stand-in gloveman Johnson stumped a Scottish batsman off Ring. Bradman allowed his non-regular bowlers opportunities with the ball, and the wickets were shared, with nobody taking more than four.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858258", "title": "Nighthawks (painting)", "text": "Nighthawks (painting)\n\nNighthawks is a 1942 oil on canvas painting by Edward Hopper that portrays people in a downtown diner late at night as viewed through the diner's large glass window. The light coming from the diner illuminates a darkened and deserted urban streetscape. \n\nIt has been described as Hopper's best-known work and is one of the most recognizable paintings in American art. Within months of its completion, it was sold to the Art Institute of Chicago on May 13, 1942, for $3,000.\n\nIt has been suggested that Hopper was inspired by a short story of Ernest Hemingway's, either \"The Killers\", which Hopper greatly admired, or from the more philosophical \"A Clean, Well-Lighted Place\". In keeping with the title of his painting, Hopper later said, \"Nighthawks\" has more to do with the possibility of predators in the night than with loneliness.\n\nStarting shortly after their marriage in 1924, Edward Hopper and his wife Josephine (Jo) kept a journal in which he would, using a pencil, make a sketch-drawing of each of his paintings, along with a precise description of certain technical details. Jo Hopper would then add additional information about the theme of the painting.\n\nA review of the page on which \"Nighthawks\" is entered shows (in Edward Hopper's handwriting) that the intended name of the work was actually Night Hawks and that the painting was completed on January 21, 1942.\n\nJo's handwritten notes about the painting give considerably more detail, including the possibility that the painting's title may have had its origins as a reference to the beak-shaped nose of the man at the bar, or that the appearance of one of the \"nighthawks\" was tweaked in order to relate to the original meaning of the word:\n\nIn January 1942, Jo confirmed her preference for the name. In a letter to Edward's sister Marion she wrote, \"Ed has just finished a very fine picture--a lunch counter at night with 3 figures. Night Hawks would be a fine name for it. E. posed for the two men in a mirror and I for the girl. He was about a month and half working on it.\"\n\nUpon completing the canvas in the late winter of 1941/42, Hopper placed it on display at Rehn's, the gallery at which his paintings were normally placed for sale. It remained there for about a month. On St. Patrick's Day, Edward and Jo Hopper attended the opening of an exhibit of the paintings of Henri Rousseau at the Museum of Modern Art, which had been organized by Daniel Catton Rich, the director of the Art Institute of Chicago. Rich was in attendance, along with Alfred Barr, the director of the Museum of Modern Art. Barr spoke enthusiastically of \"Gas\", which Hopper had painted a year earlier, and \"Jo told him he just had to go to Rehn's to see \"Nighthawks\". In the event it was Rich who went, pronounced \"Nighthawks\" 'fine as a Homer', and soon arranged its purchase for Chicago.\" The sale price was $3,000.\n\nThe scene was supposedly inspired by a diner (since demolished) in Greenwich Village, Hopper's neighborhood in Manhattan. Hopper himself said the painting \"was suggested by a restaurant on Greenwich Avenue where two streets meet\". Additionally, he noted that \"I simplified the scene a great deal and made the restaurant bigger\".\n\nThat reference has led Hopper aficionados to engage in a search for the location of the original diner. The inspiration for the search has been summed up in the blog of one of these searchers: \"I am finding it extremely difficult to let go of the notion that the Nighthawks diner was a real diner, and not a total composite built of grocery stores, hamburger joints, and bakeries all cobbled together in the painter's imagination\". A Bickford's Restaurant a few blocks from Greenwich Avenue has been proposed as one possible location.\"\n\nThe spot usually associated with the former location is a now-vacant lot known as Mulry Square, at the intersection of Seventh Avenue South, Greenwich Avenue, and West 11th Street, about seven blocks west of Hopper's studio on Washington Square. However, according to an article by Jeremiah Moss in \"The New York Times\", that cannot be the location of the diner which inspired the painting, because a gas station occupied that lot from the 1930s to the 1970s.\n\nMoss located a land-use map in a 1950s municipal atlas showing that \"Sometime between the late '30s and early '50s, a new diner appeared near Mulry Square\". Specifically, the diner was located immediately to the right of the gas station, \"not in the empty northern lot, but on the southwest side, where Perry Street slants\". That map is not reproduced in the \"Times\" article but is shown on Moss's blog.\n\nMoss comes to the conclusion that Hopper should be taken at his word: the painting was merely \"suggested\" by a real-life restaurant, he had \"simplified the scene a great deal\", and he \"made the restaurant bigger\". In short, there probably never was a single real-life scene identical to the one that Hopper had created, and if one did exist, there is no longer sufficient evidence to pin down the precise location. Moss concludes, \"the ultimate truth remains bitterly out of reach\".\n\nBecause it is so widely recognized, the diner scene in \"Nighthawks\" has served as the model for many homages and parodies.\n\nMany artists have produced works that allude or respond to \"Nighthawks\".\n\nHopper influenced the Photorealists of the late 1960s and early 1970s, including Ralph Goings, who evoked \"Nighthawks\" in several paintings of diners. Richard Estes painted a corner store in \"People's Flowers\" (1971), but in daylight, with the shop's large window reflecting the street and sky.\n\nMore direct visual quotations began to appear in the 1970s. Gottfried Helnwein's painting \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\" (1984) replaces the three patrons with American pop culture icons Humphrey Bogart, Marilyn Monroe, and James Dean, and the attendant with Elvis Presley. According to Hopper scholar Gail Levin, Helnwein connected the bleak mood of \"Nighthawks\" with 1950s American cinema and with \"the tragic fate of the decade's best-loved celebrities.\" \"Nighthawks Revisited\", a 1980 parody by Red Grooms, clutters the street scene with pedestrians, cats, and trash. A 2005 Banksy parody shows a fat, shirtless soccer hooligan in Union Flag boxers standing inebriated outside the diner, apparently having just smashed the diner window with a nearby chair.\n\nSeveral writers have explored how the customers in \"Nighthawks\" came to be in a diner at night, or what will happen next. Wolf Wondratschek's poem \"Nighthawks: After Edward Hopper's Painting\" imagines the man and woman sitting together in the diner as an estranged couple: \"I bet she wrote him a letter/ Whatever it said, he's no longer the man / Who'd read her letters twice.\" Joyce Carol Oates wrote interior monologues for the figures in the painting in her poem \"Edward Hopper's Nighthawks, 1942\". A special issue of \"Der Spiegel\" included five brief dramatizations that built five different plots around the painting; one, by screenwriter Christof Schlingensief, turned the scene into a chainsaw massacre. Erik Jendresen and Stuart Dybek also wrote short stories inspired by this painting.\n\nHopper was an avid moviegoer and critics have noted the resemblance of his paintings to film stills. \"Nighthawks\" and works such as \"Night Shadows\" (1921) anticipate the look of film noir, whose development Hopper may have influenced.\n\nHopper was an acknowledged influence on the film musical \"Pennies from Heaven\" (1981), for which production designer Ken Adam recreated \"Nighthawks\" as a set. Director Wim Wenders recreated \"Nighthawks\" as the set for a film-within-a-film in \"The End of Violence\" (1997). Wenders suggested that Hopper's paintings appeal to filmmakers because \"You can always tell where the camera is.\" In \"Glengarry Glen Ross\" (1992), two characters visit a café resembling the diner in a scene that illustrates their solitude and despair. The painting was also briefly used as a background for a scene in the animated film \"Heavy Traffic\" (1973) by director Ralph Bakshi.\n\n\"Nighthawks\" also influenced the \"future noir\" look of \"Blade Runner\"; director Ridley Scott said \"I was constantly waving a reproduction of this painting under the noses of the production team to illustrate the look and mood I was after\". In his review of the 1998 film \"Dark City\", Roger Ebert noted that the film had \"store windows that owe something to Edward Hopper's \"Nighthawks\".\" \"Hard Candy\" (2005) acknowledged a similar debt by setting one scene at a \"Nighthawks Diner\" where a character purchases a T-shirt with \"Nighthawks\" printed on it.\n\n\n\n\nA number of model railroaders, most notably John Armstrong, have recreated the scene on their layouts.\n\nThe theater lighting manufacturer Electronic Theatre Controls has a human sized scale model of the diner in the lobby of their headquarters in Middleton, Wisconsin. It is used as a reception area for the building.\n\n\"Nighthawks\" has been widely referenced and parodied in popular culture. Versions of it have appeared on posters, T-shirts and greeting cards as well as in comic books and advertisements. Typically, these parodies—like Helnwein's \"Boulevard of Broken Dreams\", which became a popular poster—retain the diner and the highly recognizable diagonal composition but replace the patrons and attendant with other characters: animals, Santa Claus and his reindeer, or the respective casts of \"The Adventures of Tintin\" or \"Peanuts\".\n\nOne parody of \"Nighthawks\" even inspired a parody of its own. Michael Bedard's painting \"Window Shopping\" (1989), part of his \"Sitting Ducks\" series of posters, replaces the figures in the diner with ducks and shows a crocodile outside eying the ducks in anticipation. Poverino Peppino parodied this image in \"Boulevard of Broken Ducks\" (1993), in which a contented crocodile lies on the counter while four ducks stand outside in the rain.\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1858264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858264", "title": "Islaya", "text": "Islaya\n\nIslaya is a genus of cactus. It has been treated as a synonym of \"Eriosyce\", and the species \"Islaya laui\" (synonym \"Eriosyce laui\") has also been placed in a separate genus, \"Rimacactus\", as its sole species \"Rimacactus laui\". The genus is recognized by other sources.\n"}
{"id": "1858268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858268", "title": "Canons of the Apostles", "text": "Canons of the Apostles\n\nThe Apostolic Canons or Ecclesiastical Canons of the Same Holy Apostles is a 4th century Syrian Christian text. It is an Ancient Church Order, a collection of ancient ecclesiastical decrees concerning the government and discipline of the Early Christian Church, allegedly written by the Apostles first found as the last chapter of the eighth book of the \"Apostolic Constitutions\". Like the other Ancient Church Orders, the Apostolic Canons use a pseudepigraphic form.\n\nThese eighty-five canons were approved by the Eastern Council in Trullo in 692 but rejected by Pope Sergius I. In the Western Church only fifty of these canons circulated, translated in Latin by Dionysius Exiguus in about 500 AD, and included in the Western collections and afterwards in the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\". Canon n. 85 contains a list of canonical books, thus it is important for the history of the Biblical canon.\n\nThey deal mostly with the office and duties of a Christian bishop, the qualifications and conduct of the clergy, the religious life of the Christian flock (abstinence, fasting), its external administration (excommunication, synods, relations with pagans and Jews), the sacraments (Baptism, Eucharist, Marriage); in a word, they are a handy summary of the statutory legislation of the Early Church.\n\nThe last of these decrees contains a very important list or canon of the Holy Scriptures. In the original Koine Greek text they claim to be the very legislation of the Apostles themselves, as promulgated by what was then known as the Holy Catholic and Apostolic Christian Church. The notion that they could not be directly apostolic in origin is a common theme among post-Reformation Christians. However, the Eastern Orthodox Church holds them in high regard, and believes in their divine inspiration as passed down from the nascent times of the One Holy Catholic and Apostolic Church i.e. beginning with the preachings of Jesus Christ and as promulgated in the early church by the Apostles and their disciples. Some, like Beveridge and Hefele, believe that they were originally drawn up about the end of the second or the beginning of the 3rd century. \n\nMost modern critics agree that they could not have been composed before the Council of Antioch of 341, some twenty of whose canons they quote; nor even before the latter end of the 4th century, since they are certainly posterior to the Apostolic Constitutions. Franz Xaver von Funk, admittedly a foremost authority on the latter and all similar early canonical texts, locates the composition of the Apostolic Canons in the 5th century, near the year 400. Thereby he approaches the opinion of his scholarly predecessor, Johann Sebastian Drey, the first among modern writers to study profoundly these ancient canons; he distinguished two editions of them, a shorter one (fifty) about the middle of the 5th century, and a longer one (eighty-five) early in the 6th century. Von Funk admits but one edition. They were certainly current in the Eastern Church in the first quarter of the 6th century, for about 520 Severus of Antioch quotes canons 21-23.\n\nThe home of the author seems to be Syria. He makes use of the Syro-Macedonian calendar (can. 26), borrows very largely from a Syrian council (Antioch, 341), and according to Von Funk is identical with the compiler or interpolator of the Apostolic Constitutions, who was certainly a Syrian.\n\nThere is some controversy over the number of these canons. In the \"Apostolic Constitutions\" (loc. cit.) they are eighty-five (occasionally eighty-four, a variant in the Manuscripts that arises from the occasional counting of two canons as one). In the latter half of the 6th century, John of Antioch (Joannes Scholasticus), Patriarch of Constantinople from 565 to 577, published a collection of synodal decrees in which he included these eighty-five canons, and this number was finally consecrated for the Greek Church by the Trullan or Quinisext Council of 692, which stopped short of affirming their apostolic authorship, instead referring to them as having been handed down in the name of the Apostles.\n\nOn the other hand, the Latin Church, throughout the Middle Ages, recognized only fifty canons of the Apostles. This was the number finally adopted by Dionysius Exiguus, who first translated these canons into Latin about 500. It is not very clear why he omitted canons 51-85; he seems to have been acquainted with them and to have used the Apostolic Constitutions. Dionysius made three versions of the Apostolic Canons; it is the second of these versions which obtained general European currency by its incorporation as the opening text of his famous Latin collection of canons (both synodal decrees and papal decretals) known as the \"Dionysiana Collectio\", made public in the first decade of the 6th century. Later collections of canons (Italy, Spain, France, Germany, etc.) borrowed from him; the text passed into Pseudo-Isidore, and eventually Gratian included (c. 1140) some excerpts from these canons in his Decretum, whereby a universal recognition and use were gained for them in the law schools. At a much earlier date Justinian (in his Sixth Novel) had recognized them as the work of the Apostles and confirmed them as ecclesiastical law.\n\nNevertheless, from their first appearance in the West they aroused suspicion. Canon 46 for example, that rejected all heretical baptism, was notoriously opposed to Roman and Western practice. In the so-called Decretum of Pope Gelasius (492-96) they are denounced as an apocryphal book, i. e. not recognized by the Catholic Church, though this note of censure was probably not in the original Decretum, but with others was added under Pope Hormisdas (514-23). Consequently, in a second edition (lost, except preface) of his \"Collectio canonum\", prepared under the latter pope, Dionysius Exiguus omitted them; even in the first edition he admitted that very many in the West were loath to acknowledge them (\"quamplurimi quidem assensum non prœbuere facilem)\". Hincmar of Reims (died 882) declared that they were not written by the Apostles, and as late as the middle of the 11th century, Western theologians (Cardinal Humbert, 1054) distinguished between the eighty-five Greek canons that they declared apocryphal, and the fifty Latin canons recognized as \"orthodox rules\" by antiquity.\n\nThe influence of the Apostolic Canons was greatly increased by the various versions of them soon current in the Christian Church, East and West. They were also translated (more or less fully) into Syriac, Arabic, Coptic, and Armenian; in general they seem to have furnished during the 5th and 6th centuries a large element of the ecclesiastical legislation in the Eastern Church. The manuscripts of the (Greek) Apostolic Canons are described by Pitra; the manuscripts of the Latin versions of Dionysius Exiguus, by C. H. Turner. The fifty Latin canons were first printed in Jacques Merlin's edition of the Councils (Paris, 1524); the eighty-five Greek Canons by G. Holoander, in his edition of Justinian's Novels (Nuremberg, 1531), whence they made their way into the earlier editions of the Corpus Juris Civilis, the \"Corpus Juris Canonici\", and the large collections of acts and decrees of the councils.\n\nA few other ancient canonical texts that claim Apostolic origin are described by F. Nau; the most interesting of them is a brief collection of nine canons that purport to date from an Apostolic Council of Antioch (see Council of Jerusalem). They may be read in Pitra, \"Hist. et monumenta Juris eccl. Græcorum\" (Rome, 1864), I, 88-91; also in Lagarde, \"Reliquiæ juris eccl. antiquissimæ græce\", 18-20, and in Harnack, \"Mission und Ausbreitung\" (Leipzig, 1902). They recommend the faithful not to practice circumcision, to admit the Gentiles, to avoid Jewish and pagan customs, the distinction of clean and unclean foods, the worship of idols, the vices of avarice and gluttony, frequentation of theatres, and taking of oaths. The earliest Christian literature offers numerous parallels to the content of these canons, which, in general, recall the Acts of the Apostles, the Epistle of Barnabas, and the Didache. In the 16th century the Jesuit Turrianus (Francisco Torres) defended their authenticity, his chief argument being a reference of Pope Innocent I (401-17) to an Apostolic Council of Antioch (Mansi, III, 1055). A notable literary controversy followed that is not yet quite closed. \n\nInterest centres chiefly in the first canon, which decrees that the Galileans shall henceforth be called Christians (see Acts 11:26), a holy people, a royal priesthood (see 1 Peter 2:9) according to the grace and title of baptism. Some critics see in this canon a defiant reply to the contemptuous use of \"Galileans\" by the 4th century Julian the Apostate (Harnack, \"Mission und Ausbreitung des Christentums\", Leipzig, 1902; Paul Lejay, in \"Revue du clergé français\", 15 Oct., 1903, 349-55, with a Fr. tr. of the nine canons). Nau is of the opinion that they are much older than the latter quarter of the 4th century and calls attention to Origen of Alexandrias writings - \"it seemed good to the Apostles and the elders assembled at Antioch, and in their own words to the Holy Spirit to write a letter to the Gentiles who believed\". This statement contradicts Acts, xv, 6, 23, 28, according to which the Apostolic letter was written from the Council of Jerusalem. Nevertheless, it seems that this collection of canons was known to Origen, all the more as it claims (in the title) to come from the library of Origen at Cæsarea and to have been found there by the martyr Pamphilus.\n\nNau thinks that they may represent a personal rule of conduct drawn up by some 2nd-century Christian (on the basis of Apostolic precepts) who miscopied Acts, xi, 26, into the form of the afore-mentioned canon 1, and then added the other precepts — canon 9 reproduces the decree of Acts, xv, 29. Dallæus (Daillé) charged Turrianus with downright forgery of all these canons, and deliberate corruption of the text of Ps. xvi, 14, \"they are full of children\" (hyion), making it read hyieon — i. e. \"they are filled with pork\". This reading of the fifth canon of Antioch is found not only in the oldest Latin Psalters, and in other reliable fourth to 6th century Latin witnesses to the Scripture-text, but also in the best Greek manuscripts (Codex Vaticanus, Sinaiticus, manuscripts dated by scholars to the 4th century). In other words, the Scripture-text used by these canons postdates Origen (who lived at the end of the second through the middle of the 3rd century). This is evidence of their great antiquity or deceptive recycling by some medieval forger.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858270", "title": "Adventitia", "text": "Adventitia\n\nThe adventitia, () is the outer layer of fibrous connective tissue surrounding an organ.\n\nThe outer layer of connective tissue that surrounds an artery, or vein – the tunica externa, is also called the \"tunica adventitia\".\n\nTo some degree, its role is complementary to that of the serosa, which also provides a layer of tissue surrounding an organ. In the abdomen, whether an organ is covered in adventitia or serosa depends upon whether it is peritoneal or retroperitoneal:\n\nIn the gastrointestinal tract, the muscular layer is bounded in most cases by serosa. However, at the oral cavity, thoracic esophagus, ascending colon, descending colon and the rectum, the muscular layer is instead bounded by adventitia. The muscular layer of the duodenum is bounded by both tissue types. Generally, if it is a part of the digestive tract that is free to move, it is covered by serosa, and if it is relatively rigidly fixed, it is covered by adventitia.\n\nThe connective tissue of the gallbladder is covered by adventitia where the gallbladder bounds the liver, but by serosa for the rest of its surface.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858274", "title": "USS Ossipee (1861)", "text": "USS Ossipee (1861)\n\nThe first USS \"Ossipee\" was a wooden, screw sloop-of-war in commission in the United States Navy at various times between 1861 and 1889. She served in the Union Navy during the American Civil War. She was named for the Ossipee River of New Hampshire and Maine.\n\n\"Ossipee\"s keel was laid down in June 1861 by the Portsmouth Navy Yard, Kittery, Maine; launched 16 November 1861; sponsored by Mrs. McFarland, wife of the editor of the \"Concord Statesman\"; and commissioned 6 November 1862 Lieutenant Commander Robert Boyd in command. \"Ossipee\" was one of four sister ships which included , and .\n\nTen days later Captain John P. Gillis took command of the ship and she got underway for Hampton Roads to join the North Atlantic Blockading Squadron in which she served until departing Newport News, Virginia, 18 May 1863 to join the West Gulf Blockading Squadron off Mobile, Alabama. She captured schooner \"Helena\" there 30 June and with seized steamers \"James Battle\" and \"William Bagley\" in the Gulf of Mexico on 18 July. The former, \"the finest packet on the Alabama River...altered to suit her for a blockade runner,\" was laden with cotton and rosin while the latter carried cotton which they hoped to sell abroad.\n\nIn September \"Ossipee\" steamed to the coast of Texas for blockade duty until returning to station off Mobile in mid-March 1864 as Admiral David Farragut built up his forces for the invasion of Mobile Bay. On 5 August, with alongside, she passed the forts and entered Mobile Bay with Farragut and participated in the ensuing naval battle, playing a large role in the struggle with which finally forced the well fought, heavy southern ironclad ram to surrender.\n\nIn September \"Ossipee\" returned to blockade duty off the Texas coast and, but for repairs at Pensacola, Florida late in 1864, served there until moving to New Orleans, Louisiana in April 1865. She was one of the Federal ships to pursue during the Confederate steamer’s daring attempt to race down the Mississippi River and escape to sea.\n\nFollowing duty off Mobile, \"Ossipee\" sailed North late in June and decommissioned at Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 3 July.\n\nRecommissioned 27 October 1866, Captain George F. Emmons in command, \"Ossipee\" served in the north Pacific protecting American interests along the coasts of Mexico and Central America. She departed San Francisco 27 September 1867 for Sitka, Alaska, carrying Russian Commissioners for the ceremony transferring Alaska to the United States on 18 October.\n\nAfter serving in the Pacific into the spring of 1872, \"Ossipee\" headed home on 6 June. On 20 June, Seaman James Benson jumped overboard to rescue a shipmate, for which he was later awarded the Medal of Honor. \"Ossipee\" arrived in New York on 18 November, and was decommissioned there on the 30th.\n\nRecommissioned 10 October 1873, the veteran sloop of war served in the North Atlantic. She departed Key West 15 December for Dry Tortugas to await filibustering steamer \"Virginius\" which had been seized on the high seas by the under fraudulent American registry. To help ease tension caused by the \"Virginius\" Affair, Spain had turned the prize over to the United States, represented by Captain Whiting, commander of at Bahia Honda, Cuba. \"Despatch\" took \"Virginius\" to Tortugas. \"Ossipee\" departed Tortugas 19 December towing \"Virginius\" north, but the notorious prize foundered off Cape Hatteras a week later. \"Ossipee\" continued operations in the North Atlantic until decommissioning at Boston 25 May 1878.\n\nRecommissioned 28 January 1884, \"Ossipee\" departed Hampton Roads 30 April for the Far East via Gibraltar and the Suez Canal and served on the Asiatic station until returning to New York 15 February 1887. She then served along the Atlantic coast and in the West Indies until decommissioning at Norfolk, Virginia 12 November 1889. She was sold there 25 March 1891 to Herbert H. Ives.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858279", "title": "Beaubourg (album)", "text": "Beaubourg (album)\n\nBeaubourg is a studio album by the Greek electronic composer Vangelis, released in July 1978. It was the fourth album produced by Vangelis in Nemo Studios, London, and his final album for RCA Records. It is an avant-garde-experimental album. \n\nIt is a concept album inspired by the architecture of the homonymous complex area, specifically Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris. He visited the area in 1977, and recalls \"I was very impressed. I returned to London and I recorded my album \"Beaubourg\" quickly, spontaneously. So I 'felt' Beaubourg, but that does not mean that Beaubourg is only this: I can redo \"Beaubourg\" in 30 different ways\". The recording took him less than a month. \n\nVangelis noted that many people in the beginning had difficulty listening to it, but later appreciated it. He said it can be played in the background. \n\nVangelis expressed that he \"needed courage to release this record\" as RCA \"has not believed in any of my four albums\", or in his artistic activity, and he was \"accused of purposely recording a disc of very ‘different’ electronic music\"; nevertheless the album sold well. Thus he decided to leave RCA for Polydor Records.\n\nIts release was promoted with a live appearance by Vangelis at the Pavillon de Paris on the June 19, 1978.\n\nIn 2013 the album was released in remastered and reissued digipak edition by Esoteric Recordings.\n\nThe music on the album was primarily improvised on one or more Yamaha CS-80, and the ring modulator, which transforms simple tones into complex noises, was extensively used.\n\nIt is entirely synthesizer-based and highly experimental and abstract; together with \"Hypothesis\" (recorded in 1971 and unofficially released in 1978) it is often considered to be one of Vangelis' least accessible works. It's musically expressive, with dramatic transformations of tonality, with short melodies which suddenly drift into distorted noises.\n\nSteve McDonald of Allmusic noted that the album is a \"difficult listening\" due to its style and \"great dark synthesized tone poem\". Henri Stirk from Background Magazine similarly rated the 2013 edition by Esoteric Recordings with 2/5 stars.\n\nAll songs composed and arranged by Vangelis.\n\n\nProduction\n\nProduction (2013)\n\n"}
{"id": "1858281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858281", "title": "Alfonso Pecoraro Scanio", "text": "Alfonso Pecoraro Scanio\n\nAlfonso Pecoraro Scanio (born 13 March 1959) is an Italian politician, lawyer and journalist.\n\nHe served as Minister of Agriculture in the second cabinet of Giuliano Amato and as Minister of Environment in the second cabinet of Romano Prodi.\n\nBorn in Salerno, member of the Italian Chamber of Deputies since 1992, Pecoraro Scanio was the leader of the Federation of the Greens, one of the parties making up the ruling coalition in the new Italian government. He also served as Minister for Agriculture from 2000 to 2001 in the cabinet of Giuliano Amato.\n\nHe was also one of the candidates as leader of L'Unione for the primary election held on 16 October 2005, finishing in fifth place with 2.2% of national votes.\n\nPecoraro Scanio has been accused of populistic and opportunistic behaviour for his position on the major waste disposal problem in Naples, which is part of his electoral region\n\nPecoraro Scanio is openly bisexual.\n\nHe has a younger brother, Marco Pecoraro Scanio, who is a former Serie A footballer with such clubs as Inter Milan, Salernitana and Ancona 1905. Marco is also a senator for the Green Party, elected in the 2006 election.\n\nHe is now President of the \"UniVerde Foundation\" and teaches at both the University of Milan Bicocca and the Tor Vergata University of Rome.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858290", "title": "Naval Weapons Station Earle", "text": "Naval Weapons Station Earle\n\nNaval Weapons Station Earle is a United States Navy base in Monmouth County, New Jersey, United States. Its distinguishing feature is a pier in Sandy Hook Bay where ammunition can be loaded and unloaded from warships at a safe distance from heavily populated areas.\n\nThe station is divided into two sections: Mainside, located in parts of Colts Neck Township, Howell Township, Wall Township, and Tinton Falls at ; and the Waterfront Area (which includes the pier complex), on Sandy Hook Bay, located in the Leonardo section of Middletown Township, at . The areas are connected by Normandy Road, a military road and rail line.\n\nWorld War II operations demanded an ammunition depot near the greater New York metropolitan area but away from high-population sectors. Planning was hastened in early 1943 after the ammunition ship \"SS El Estero\" caught fire while moored in Bayonne, New Jersey. If the stowed and dockside explosives had detonated at once, in the manner of the great Halifax Explosion, the blast could have damaged parts of Bayonne and even Lower Manhattan. A board was established to locate a suitable site, and chose Sandy Hook Bay, which featured a safe, sheltered, and nearby port where ships could take on ammunition. Rail lines could bring in the ammunition from the west, where the majority of ammunition shipments originated. The rural area meant few local residents would be affected.\n\nOn August 2, 1943, construction began on Naval Ammunition Depot Earle, named after Rear Admiral Ralph Earle, the chief of the Bureau of Ordnance during World War I. The depot was commissioned on December 13, 1943, though work continued on the military road and railway connecting the mainside complex, the waterfront complex and the pier, which stretches into the Sandy Hook Bay.\n\nEarle continued to develop after World War II, keeping pace with the changing needs of the navy. In 1974, the depot's name was changed to Naval Weapons Station Earle.\n\nSchool-aged children of active military personnel at the station in grades K through 8 attend the schools of the Tinton Falls School District. Students in grades 9 through 12 attend Monmouth Regional High School in Tinton Falls, part of the Monmouth Regional High School District.\n\nNWS Earle is also the homeport to USNS Supply (T-AOE 6), USNS Arctic (T-AOE-8), and Combat Logistics Squadron 2.\n\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1858304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858304", "title": "Act of Depression", "text": "Act of Depression\n\nAct of Depression is the debut album by Underoath. Released July 4, 1999, through Takehold Records, the album was out of print for some time as there were only 2,000 copies originally released. Solid State reissued this album alongside \"Cries of the Past\" on August 20, 2013.\n\nThe style of this album has been described as hard hitting Christian metal, stylistically featuring a mix of metalcore, death metal, and black metal.\n\nThe hidden track \"Spirit of a Living God\" begins with commentary by lead guitarist Corey Steger speaking about his description about God, talks about receiving Jesus Christ and that he dedicates the album to those that were victims to rape, suicide and depression. It features drummer Aaron Gillespie in the background of the commentary singing along with an acoustic guitar. After 15 seconds of silence (3:47 - 4:02), the song itself starts; it is an acoustic rock song that features singing vocals by Gillespie.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858306", "title": "Book of Nepos", "text": "Book of Nepos\n\nThe Book of Nepos is a lost 3rd century Christian text written by an Egyptian bishop Nepos, which advocated for a strictly literal interpretation of the Bible against allegorical readings. This included especially a literal reading of the Book of Revelation, a minority position at the time.\n\nThe \"Book of Nepos\" no longer exists, and is known only indirectly through Eusebius, who quoted a work by Dionysius of Alexandria criticizing Nepos.\n\nNepos was a strict literalist (believing the entire Bible is true in a literal sense). His text, also known as the Refutation of the Allegorisers or Refutation of the Allegorists was aimed at refuting the arguments of those who held that certain sections of the Bible were mere allegory. In particular, the text is aimed at discrediting the position, held by a minority of Christians at the time, that the book of Revelation should be interpreted allegorically rather than literally.\n\nAmongst the teachings in the text is the belief that Jesus would come to earth and physically reign as monarch for 1000 years during an age of righteous delight. This belief was regarded as fairly orthodox in the early church (e.g. it was held by Irenaeus, and Justin Martyr), however, the later church came to view Revelation as more allegorical. The dispute with Nepos, as found in Eusebius is in fact, the first instance of premillennialism ever being refuted. Dionysius of Alexandria felt moved to write a text (\"On the Promises\") against it, although he regarded Nepos highly and attempted to criticize the doctrine without insulting Nepos personally.\n\nThe \"Book of Nepos\" was so popular within the villages around Alexandria that Dionysius went there in person to refute it. In deference to Nepos and the prior orthodoxy of strict literalism, he did so politely, entering a respectful dialogue with those from the village and contesting each of the arguments they took from the \"Book of Nepos\" in turn.\n\nThe refutation Dionysius offered was based on the notion that John was not the author of the Book of Revelation, popularly attributed to him. It was based on stylistic differences between the Gospels and epistles thought to be of John. Eusebius himself described the interpretation of Nepos as advocating that the Divine Scriptures be \"understood in a more Jewish manner.\"\n"}
{"id": "1858312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858312", "title": "Lava (soap)", "text": "Lava (soap)\n\nLava is a heavy-duty hand cleaner, originally produced in soap bar form, developed by the Waltke Company of St. Louis in 1893.\n\nIt is currently manufactured by the WD-40 Company, who acquired the brand from Block Drug in 1999, who acquired it from Procter & Gamble in 1995. Unlike typical hand soaps, Lava contains ground pumice, which gave the soap its name. The soap and pumice combination is intended to scour tar, engine grease, paint, dirt, grime, filth, and similar substances from the skin.\n\nLava soap is currently available in three forms, a red wrapper bar , a bulk count industrial green wrapper bar , and a liquid form (7.5 oz. pump bottle). The liquid form also contains moisturizers and recently the bar form added moisturizers into its formulation as well. The original Lava (without moisturizers), which was a beige bar, is no longer manufactured.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858315", "title": "Coventry Village", "text": "Coventry Village\n\nCoventry Village is a commercial business district in Cleveland Heights, Ohio, situated on Coventry Road between Mayfield Road (U.S. Route 322) and Euclid Heights Boulevard. Coventry is associated with Northeast Ohio's artistic, musical, bohemian, hippie and emerging hipster communities and is the center of Cleveland's creative class, inviting comparisons to the Haight-Ashbury district in San Francisco and Greenwich Village in New York City, although on a smaller scale.\n\nThe road bisecting what is now Coventry Village appears in the map of Harris H. Blackmore of 1852 as an unidentified north-south route connecting the North Union Shaker Settlement, then near its peak of about 300 settlers, to what is now Mayfield Road. It was the eastern terminus of Cedar Road in the rural area then known as East Cleveland Township, separating it from Warrensville Township to the east. The road passed through farmland acquired by Worthy S. Streator located between Mayfield Road and Cedar Road who chose aptly to assuage his wife's growing misgivings over haunted farmland by turning the wartime burial gulley into a commercial area funded by the Shakers. By 1890 it was known as the North-South County Road, or Streator Road. That year, Patrick Calhoun, a lawyer visiting town on railroad business, spied the James A. Garfield Memorial in Lake View Cemetery from a bluff on Streator's farm. He immediately offered to purchase Streator's acreage surrounding Streator Road for $30,000, closing the purchase in 1891. Calhoun intended to develop acreage as part of an upscale planned community that he named \"Euclid Heights\". Calhoun intended Euclid Heights to be a New England-style upper-income community of Protestants of Anglo-Saxon heritage. By 1892 the road was identified as Coventry Road in George F. Cram & Company's atlas of that year. The part of East Cleveland Township now known as Cleveland Heights became a hamlet in 1901, and then a village in 1903.\n\nAs demand for large houses declined in the coming decades, and Calhoun's realty company became insolvent in the 1910s, unbuilt lots in the portion of Euclid Heights near Coventry Road were sold at foreclosure sales. Developers built apartment buildings on these empty lots.\n\nThe Euclid Heights and Mayfield streetcar routes met at the Coventry–Mayfield intersection, making the area a convenient commuter transfer point after 1907. Most of the buildings on Coventry were constructed between 1913 and 1933, with the greatest growth occurring between 1921 and 1925, when 18 commercial buildings were erected. Buildings erected for retail walk-in traffic typically included second story apartments, to maximize the benefits of urbanization and rapid population growth. The new Coventry business district served streetcar passengers and the increasing populations of the Euclid Heights and Mayfield Heights developments. Before then, the nearest commercial center was at Doan's Corners.\n\nBy the early 1920s, the newly built apartment district attracted a large, thriving Jewish community. This influence was reflected in the commercial district by, among other things, a kosher poultry slaughterhouse. In 1921, Cleveland Heights attained cityhood.\n\nThe motion picture \"Les Amants\" (\"The Lovers\") was first shown locally in 1959 at the Heights Art Theatre, then located at the intersection of Coventry Road and Euclid Heights Boulevard. Theater manager Nico Jacobellis was arrested and convicted on obscenity charges for showing the film. By its decision in \"Jacobellis v. Ohio\", 378 U.S. 184 (1964), the U.S. Supreme Court overturned the conviction. Agreeing that Jacobellis' criminal conviction was improper and that the film was not obscene, Justice Potter Stewart famously described his perspective on obscene material: \"I know it when I see it...\" The U.S. Supreme Court diminished the importance of \"Jacobellis\" by decisions it entered years later, yet \"I know it when I see it\" remains one of the best-remembered quotations in its history. \nIn the second half of the 1960s, Coventry became the gathering place for Cleveland's counterculture, owing partly to the popularity of the C-Saw Café with bikers, and to the area's proximity to John Carroll University and the predecessor schools to Case Western Reserve University and Cleveland State University. As one writer explains, this transition was sudden:\n\n\"In addition to the problems facing aging communities everywhere...the Jewish community of Cleveland Heights faced two additional problems at the end of the 1960s: the dramatic takeover of a small area of the city by hippies and motorcyclists, and the quickening pace of integration...The counterculture flower children with long hair, health food, music, and, most significantly, drugs virtually took over [Coventry Village] during the second half of the 1960s. Hippies overflowed the Gothic apartments, cardboard \"Store for Rent\" signs seemed to be everywhere, and motorcycle groups (if not gangs) dotted the corners in the evening...[P]olice had begun to probe recurrent reports of drug use (marijuana and LSD) among Cleveland Heights High School students.\" (citation and footnote forthcoming)\n\nRecord Revolution, which opened in 1968 and continues to operate, became a destination for rock stars passing through Cleveland, and most of its famous customers autographed the store walls. Among them were members of Led Zeppelin, Genesis, Bad Company, The Who, Mott the Hoople, Bruce Springsteen, Southside Johnny, Hall & Oates, Brian Eno, the Psychedelic Furs, Deborah Harry of Blondie, and the Pixies. The staff hosted in-store album signings with then-breaking artists Lou Reed, Patti Smith, and Elvis Costello. In his book \"The Catalog of Cool\" (1982), rock critic Gene Sculatti called Record Revolution “the coolest place to buy records” in Ohio. In the 1970s, Record Revolution was one of the three \"breakout\" record stores in Greater Cleveland that affected radio play at the influential rock station WMMS. When WMMS management added to its playlist a new album or a new artist, particularly one on the cutting edge or left of center, an early indicator of success was sales at Record Revolution. To stay competitive, Record Revolution expanded its business model to retailing of clothing and paraphernalia euphemistically called \"smoking accessories\".\n\nOver the years, the sense of a Jewish neighborhood on Coventry transitioned into a more eclectic marketplace. Pioneering entrepreneurs included Kaufman's, Frankel's Jewelry, Irv's Deli, Heights Art Theatre, Allen Lock & Key, A-Appliance, Dobama Theatre, Arabica coffeehouse, Renaissance Parlour, Generation Gap, and High Tide Rock Bottom.\n\nHeights Hardware is Coventry Village’s oldest business (since 1911). Coventry also boasts a thriving music scene, including rock club the Grog Shop and its liquor lounge counterpart, the B-Side. Area mainstay Record Revolution sells classic vinyl, and The Exchange (formerly the Record Exchange). There are three book stores: Attenson's Antiques/Vintage & Books, Mac's Backs, and Revolution Books. Restaurants include The Inn on Coventry, Hunan Coventry, Tommy's (who only have drip coffee - there is no espresso machine on site), Grums Sub Shop, High Thai'd, Pacific East, Pho and Rice, Tree Country Bistro, BD's Mongolian Barbecue, Bodega, Jimmy John's, Dave's Cosmic Subs and Chipotle. Drink options are sports bar Panini's Bar and Grill and a local coffee house, Phoenix Coffee. Other attractions are the clothing store/head shop Sunshine, the sneaker store and clothing boutique The Blueprint, Passport to Peru, the vintage clothing store Avalon Exchange, the hookah bar City and East, a comedy club, Big Dog Theater, and an American Apparel retail outlet. In recent years more local businesses have popped up on the street, most are trendy boutiques.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858316", "title": "Marion, South Australia", "text": "Marion, South Australia\n\nMarion is a suburb in the City of Marion, around south-west of the city centre of Adelaide, the capital of South Australia. Founded as a rural village in 1838 on the banks of the Sturt River, Marion was found to have rich soil and the population expanded rapidly. Colonel William Light laid out the plan for the village, as he had done with the City of Adelaide itself.\n\nMarion is bordered on the north by Oaklands Road, on the east by Marion Road, on the south by Sturt Road and on the west by a roughly straight line from Finniss Street in the south to The Parade.\n\nThe township of Marion was laid out by William Light and B. T. Finniss in 1838, and was (mis)named for Marianne Fisher (1827–1927), daughter of the Resident Commissioner, James Hurtle Fisher.\n\nVegetables, stone fruits, almonds and grapes were all produced in Marion. Richard Hamilton started the first vineyard in 1838 and his family continues its wine making tradition to this day. By the late 19th century Marion was also home to a number of industries such as a mining and brick making. However, the population at this time was still very small – around 350 people. Gradually the Adelaide sprawl crept up to Marion, and by the 1950s the suburb was well and truly enveloped. \n\nMarion is home to a number of parks and reserves. The large sporting complex off Sturt Road contains ovals and a basketball stadium. There are also parks on Norfolk Road, Tilley Crescent, Nicholas Road, Oakleigh Road, George Street and Alison Avenue.\n\nMarion also shares the Oaklands Reserve with Oaklands Park. The City of Marion Swimming Centre is situated adjacent to the suburb of Marion, in Park Holme.\n\nThe Sturt River Linear Park is a trail which follows the Sturt River through the south-western metropolitan area from Marion to Glenelg.\n\nThe large co-educational private school, Westminster, is situated on Alison Avenue near the railway line. It caters to all grades from Reception to Year 12, and caters for boarders.\n\nMarion High School, situated on York Avenue, Clovelly Park, served the youth of the area for over forty years until its closure in 1996. The area has now been redeveloped primarily for housing, with just the school hall remaining; named Cosgrove Hall after a long-running headmaster of the school.\n\nChurches of various denominations are located Marion.\n\nThe Marion Returned and Services League of Australia Club is located on Norfolk Road.\n\nThere are two bowling clubs in the suburb of Marion, one on Norfolk Road, near the RSL club and another on Sturt Road adjacent to Sturt Oval.\n\nIn April 2011 South Australian Premier Mike Rann opened the South Australia Aquatic and Leisure Centre on Morphett Road in Oaklands Park, the most advanced swimming and diving facilities in Australia. He was joined at the opening by Marion Mayor Felicity-Ann Lewis. Lewis and Rann had championed the project for some years to enable Olympic standard aquatic sports to occur in South Australia.\n\nIt is part of the City of Marion. The council offices for the whole city are located in nearby Sturt. Marion is split between the state electorates of Elder and Mitchell and is situated in the Federal Division of Boothby.\n\nThere is a railway station in Marion between Minchinbury Terrace and Fairne Terrace, which connects to Adelaide's centre to the north and Noarlunga to the south.\n\nThere are two major bus routes serving the district: the M44 from Marion Shopping Centre which runs along Finniss Street and Marion Road to Adelaide's centre, then via the O-Bahn Busway to Golden Grove. The north of the suburb is served by the 241 bus from Marion Shopping Centre, which runs along Morphett Road, Oaklands Road and Daws Road to the city centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1858318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858318", "title": "The Moving Target", "text": "The Moving Target\n\nThe Moving Target is a 1949 mystery novel by American writer Ross Macdonald, who at this point used the name \"John Macdonald\".\n\nThis is the first Ross Macdonald novel to feature the character of Lew Archer, who would define the author's career. Lew Archer is hired by the dispassionate wife of an eccentric oil tycoon who has gone missing. Archer must dig through a strange cast of Los Angeles characters, finding crime after crime before he can get to the job he was hired to do.\n\nThe novel became the basis for the 1966 Paul Newman film \"Harper\", thanks in no small part to screenwriter William Goldman.\n\nRoss Macdonald (Kenneth Millar) originally titled this book \"The Snatch\". When the book was published, he chose the pseudonym John Macdonald after his father, John Macdonald Millar. It is believed he didn't want to use his own name as his wife, Margaret Millar, was already an established writer. Due this pen-name's similarity with the name of the writer John D. MacDonald, Millar later wrote as John Ross Macdonald and finally as Ross Macdonald.\n\nIn this book, Macdonald created the fictional city of Santa Teresa, a version of Santa Barbara, California. In the 1980s, Santa Teresa became home to Kinsey Millhone, a fictional female private investigator created by Sue Grafton. Millhone is the protagonist of Grafton's \"alphabet mysteries\" series of novels. Grafton chose the setting as a tribute to Macdonald.\n"}
{"id": "1858321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858321", "title": "Virginia Ruano Pascual", "text": "Virginia Ruano Pascual\n\nVirginia Ruano Pascual (; born 21 September 1973) is a Spanish former professional tennis player.\n\nShe had moderate success in singles, winning three career titles and reaching two Grand Slam quarterfinals and a top-30 ranking, but she had been far more successful in doubles where she won 43 titles, including 11 Grand Slam titles: ten women's doubles (eight partnering Paola Suárez of Argentina, and two partnering Anabel Medina Garrigues of Spain) and one mixed doubles (partnering Tomás Carbonell of Spain).\n\nBetween 2002 and 2004 Virginia and Paola reached nine consecutive Grand Slam finals (won five) and they reached at least the semifinals of the last twelve Grand Slam tournaments they played in (winning run came to an end when they lost in the Wimbledon semifinals).\n\nHer father, Juan Manuel, works for Iberia Airlines; her mother, Virginia, is a housewife. Her brother, Juan Ramon, is a tennis pro at a club and also serves as her coach and her sister, Marbella, works in administration. Initially, she hyphenated her family names, but she has omitted the hyphen since 1998.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858335", "title": "Free Fall (Jesse Cook album)", "text": "Free Fall (Jesse Cook album)\n\nFree Fall is the fourth studio album by the New Flamenco artist Jesse Cook. Musicians vary by track, including Jesse Cook, Art Avalos, Mario Melo, Paul Antonio, Etric Lyons, Steven Greenman, Ron Allen, Rick Shadrach Lazar, Djivan Gasparyan, George Gao, Ron Allen, Kathleen Kajioka, Nancy Cardwell, Danny Wilde, Peter Cardinali, and Kevin Laliberte. \"Fall At Your Feet\" has a live performance of \"Mario Takes a Walk\" appended to it. The album was certified Platinum by the CRIA in October 2001.\n\nCook pairs with Danny Wilde for a cover of the Crowded House hit \"Fall at Your Feet\".\n\n\nAll songs written by Jesse Cook—except \"Fall at your Feet.\" \"Fall at your Feet\" was written by Neil Finn of Crowded House and recorded on their album \"Woodface\" in 1991.\n"}
{"id": "1858347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858347", "title": "Julio Ramón Ribeyro", "text": "Julio Ramón Ribeyro\n\nJulio Ramón Ribeyro Zúñiga (August 31, 1929 in Lima, Peru – December 4, 1994 in Lima, Peru) was a Peruvian writer best known for his short stories. He was also successful in other genres: novel, essay, theater, diary and aphorism. In the year of his death, he was awarded the US$100,000 \"Premio Juan Rulfo de literatura latinoamericana y del Caribe\". His work has been translated into numerous languages, including English.\n\nThe characters in his stories, often autobiographical and usually written in simple but ironic language, tend to end up with their hopes cruelly dashed. But despite its apparent pessimism, Ribeyro's work is often comic, its humor springing from both the author's sense of irony and the accidents that befall his protagonists. A collection was published under the title \"La palabra del mudo\" (The Word of the Mute).\n\nRibeyro studied literature and law in Universidad Católica in Lima. In 1960 he immigrated to Paris where he worked as a journalist in France Presse and then as cultural advisor and ambassador to UNESCO. He was an avid smoker, as described in his short story ¨Sólo para fumadores¨ (For smokers only), and he died as a result of his addiction.\n\nEarly years (1929–1952)\n\nRibeyro was born in Lima on August 31, 1929. He was the son of Julio Ramón Ribeyro Bonello and Mercedes Zúñiga Rabines, the first of four children (two boys and two girls). His family was middle class, but in earlier generations had belonged to the upper class, counting among his ancestors some illustrious figures in Peruvian culture and politics, mostly of a conservative and \"civilist\" trend. In his childhood he lived in Santa Beatriz, a middle-class Lima neighborhood, and then moved to Miraflores, residing in the neighborhood of Santa Cruz, close to Huaca Pucllana. He went to school in the Champagnat School of Miraflores. He was deeply affected by the death of his father which also created a dire economic situation for his family.\n\nLater, he studied Arts and Law at the Pontifical Catholic University of Peru, between 1946 and 1952, where he met Pablo Macera, Alberto Escobar and Luis Felipe Angell \"Sofocleto\" among other youth with intellectual and artistic interests. He began his writing career with the short story \"The Grey Life\" which was published in the magazine \"Correo Bolivariano\" in 1948. In 1952 he won a journalism fellowship awarded by the Institute of Hispanic Culture, which allowed him to travel to Spain.\n\nFirst trip to Europe (1952–1958)\n\nHe traveled by ship to Barcelona and from there went to Madrid, where he spent a year and studied at the Complutense University in that city. He also wrote some short stories and articles.\n\nBy the end of his fellowship in 1953, he traveled to Paris to prepare a thesis on French literature at the Sorbonne University. By then he had written his first book \"Los gallinazos sin plumas\" (The featherless buzzards), a collection of short stories on urban issues, regarded as one of his most successful pieces of narrative writing. There, he decided to drop out and remained in Europe doing odd jobs, alternating his stay in France with brief periods in Germany and Belgium. It was in Munich between 1954 and 1956, where he wrote his first novel, \"Chronicle of San Gabriel\". He returned to Paris and then traveled to Antwerp in 1957, where he worked in a factory of photography products. In 1958, he returned to Germany and spent some time in Berlin, Hamburg and Frankfurt. During his European stay he had to take on many trades to survive, including those of newspapers recycling, concierge, loader on the subway, seller of printing materials, among others.\n\nHe returned to Lima in 1958. He was appointed as a professor at the National University of San Cristobal de Huamanga in Ayacucho, and instigated the creation of the Institute for Popular Culture, in 1959. In 1960 he published his novel Chronicle of San Gabriel, which earned him the National Prize for Novel that year.\n\nSecond trip to Europe (1961)\n\nIn 1961, he returned to Paris, where he worked as a journalist for ten years, Agence France Press. He was also cultural attache at the Peruvian Embassy in Paris, also play as a cultural consultant and ambassador of Peru to UNESCO.\n\nHe married Alida Lamb and they had one child. In 1973, he operated a first lung cancer, caused by their addiction to cigarettes as a result of which he received a long treatment. Inspired by this experience, he wrote a book entitled \"Only for smokers\".\n\nIn 1983, he received the National Book Award, and ten years later, the National Culture.\n\nLast years\n\nGenerous with his friends and with young writers, Ribeyro never had enemies and was always very appreciated by his contemporaries. After being confirmed as ambassador to Unesco in the late 1980s, he had a very rough verbal exchange with fellow Peruvian and friend Mario Vargas Llosa, regarding the political debate in Peru around the proposed nationalization of banks by the first presidential term of Alan García government, which divided public opinion in the country. Ribeyro criticized Vargas Llosa for supporting the conservative sectors of the country, which according to him meant he was opposing the emergence of the popular classes. Vargas Llosa answered in his memoir A Fish in the Water (1993), by pointing out what he considered Ribeyro's lack of consistency, which made him appear subservient to every single government so as to maintain his diplomatic appointment in Unesco. However, apart from this embarrassing episode, Vargas Llosa has consistently praised the literary work of Ribeyro, whom he considers as one of the great storytellers in Spanish. The relationship between the two authors, who shared flat in Paris was otherwise complex and full of mysteries.\n\nHis last years were spent traveling between Europe and Peru. In the last year of his life he had decided to remain definitely in his homeland in Peru. He died on December 4, 1994, days after getting the Juan Rulfo Prize for Literature.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858351", "title": "Once a Rocker, Always a Rocker", "text": "Once a Rocker, Always a Rocker\n\nOnce a Rocker, Always a Rocker is the third album by The Joe Perry Project, released in 1983 on MCA Records.\n\nAll tracks composed by Joe Perry and Mach Bell; except where indicated\n\n\n\"When Worlds Collide\" and \"Going Down\" were often included in setlists of The Joe Perry Project prior to the recording sessions of the album with \"Something Else\" performed during the tour for the album.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858358", "title": "Death Dimension", "text": "Death Dimension\n\nDeath Dimension (also known as \"Death Dimensions\", \"Freeze Bomb\", \"Icy Death\", \"The Kill Factor\", and \"Black Eliminator\") is a 1978 American B-list action thriller and martial arts film by Al Adamson starring Jim Kelly, Harold Sakata, George Lazenby, Terry Moore, and Aldo Ray.\n\nThe story is about a scientist, Dr. Mason (T.E. Foreman), who invents a powerful freezing bomb for a gangster leader nicknamed \"The Pig\" (Sakata). Mason changes his mind and kills himself in order to not let his secret fall into the hands of the Pig. The scientist's assistant Felicia (Patch Mackenzie) runs away with the plans embedded in a microchip in her forehead, but is chased by the gangster's henchmen. The local police chief, Capt. Gallagher (Lazenby), gets put on the case and assigns an investigator, martial arts expert Detective Ash (Kelly).\n\n"}
{"id": "1858367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858367", "title": "Sentences of Sextus", "text": "Sentences of Sextus\n\nThe Sentences of Sextus (not to be confused with Sextus Empiricus) is a Hellenistic Pythagorean text, modified to reflect a Christian viewpoint which was popular among Christians. The earliest mention of the \"Sentences\" is in the mid 3rd century by Origen. Origen quotes Sextus on self-castration, a widespread habit among ascetic early Christians, which Origen deplores, and mentions in passing that the work is one \"that many considered to be tested by time.\" While previously known from other versions, a partial Coptic translation appears in one of the books of the New Testament apocrypha recovered in the Nag Hammadi library.\n\nThe work is similar to the sayings gospels called the Gospel of Phillip and the Gospel of Thomas in that it is purely a collection of sayings, with no bridging framework. Unlike the Christian sayings gospels, the wisdom comes from a man named \"Sextus\" rather than Jesus. Sextus appears to have been a Pythagorean. Some of the 451 sentences are:\n\nOne possible author of the \"Sentences\" is Quintus Sextius, a Roman philosopher who combined Stoicism with Pythagoreanism, and who lived in the 1st century BC. By the time that Rufinus translated the \"Sentences\" into Latin (c. 400), the work had become attributed to Pope Sixtus II, in early times one of the most venerated of all church figures. It is unlikely that he authored the text (partly as he wasn't Pythagorean). Such attribution to important figures, which frequently happened in the apocrypha, was usually an attempt to give them more authority.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858371", "title": "Madura (band)", "text": "Madura (band)\n\nMadura was a 1970s rock/fusion band from Chicago.\n\nAfter the breakup of Bangor Flying Circus (1969), Alan DeCarlo and Hawk Wolinski formed Madura, replacing Bangor Flying Circus drummer Michael Tegza with Ross Salomone. \n\nDavid \"Hawk\" Wolinski, previous Shadows of Knight member; Alan DeCarlo and Ross Salomone recorded two albums, produced by the Chicago producer James William Guercio. Hawk Wolinski later became a member of Rufus and Chaka Khan, and a successful producer and songwriter. Alan DeCarlo and Ross Salomone both appeared on Chicago keyboard player Robert Lamm's 1974 solo album \"Skinny Boy\". Ross Salomone also appeared on albums by Chicago, Air Supply, Gerard, and Hollins & Star.\n\nMadura can be seen and heard live on a short concert scene in J.W. Guercio's movie \"Electra Glide in Blue\" (1973) playing a part of the song \"Free From The Devil\". This is also included on the album from the movie. David Wolinski also appears as an actor in the movie, playing the part of a driver.\n\nThe band's name \"Madura\" was inspired by the Meenakshi temple in Madurai.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858377", "title": "Ranks and insignia of NATO armies officers", "text": "Ranks and insignia of NATO armies officers\n\nCommissioned officers' rank comparison chart of all land forces of NATO member states. For the comparison chart of the enlisted, non-commissioned officers (NCO), see Ranks and insignia of NATO armies enlisted.\n\nWarrant Officers (WO) and Chief Warrant Officers (CWO) in the US Military rank below officers but above officer candidates and enlisted servicemen. The first warrant officer rank, WO1 does not have a \"commission\" associated with it, instead having a \"Warrant\" from the Secretary of the Army. Warrant officers are allowed the same courtesies as a commissioned officer, but may have some restrictions on their duties that are reserved for commissioned officers. Warrant officers usually receive a commission once they are promoted to Chief Warrant Officer 2 (CW2/CWO2). WO1s may be appointed by commission as stated in title 10 USC. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858380", "title": "Legal Services Commission", "text": "Legal Services Commission\n\nThe Legal Services Commission (LSC) was an executive non-departmental public body of the Ministry of Justice that was responsible for the operational administration of legal aid in England and Wales.\n\nThe LSC was responsible for a budget of around £2 billion annually, and helping over 2 million people with their legal problems across England and Wales each year. It was established under the Access to Justice Act 1999 and in 2000 replaced the Legal Aid Board (founded 30 June 1949). Sponsored by the Ministry of Justice, the LSC helped to protect the fundamental rights of the individual and addressed problems that contribute to social exclusion. The Chair of the LSC was Sir Bill Callaghan and its work was overseen by an independent board of commissioners. The Chief Executive of the LSC was Matthew Coats.\n\nThe Legal Aid, Sentencing and Punishment of Offenders Act 2012 made provision for the abolition of the LSC. The LSC was replaced by the Legal Aid Agency, an executive agency of the Ministry of Justice, on 1 April 2013. The agency carries out a similar function to the LSC, although executive agency status differs from the LSC's non-departmental public body status. Independence of decision-making within the Legal Aid Agency is through the post of a Director of Legal Aid Casework, who has independence from the Lord Chancellor in applying directions and guidance to any individual funding decision.\n\nThe LSC was responsible for the development and administration of two service programmes: \n\n\nThe CLA aimed to improve access to quality information and help for civil legal problems, in fields such as family, debt and housing law. CLA provides direct legal advice services to the public via its Community Legal Advice website and helpline, and also provides advice centre offices for low-income individuals and families, who are referred to participating solicitors and advice agencies that are certified through the CLA's Quality Mark scheme.\n\nThe CDS provides free legal advice and representation for people facing criminal charges who are unable to pay for legal help. This is supplied through criminal solicitors’ offices and the Public Defender Service.\n\nIn the House of Commons on 20 July 2010 Robert Buckland MP made what the Parliamentary Under-secretary of State for Justice, Jonathan Djanogly, described as \"serious accusations of mismanagement\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1858388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858388", "title": "Ranks and insignia of NATO armies enlisted", "text": "Ranks and insignia of NATO armies enlisted\n\nThis page lists the enlisted ranks and insignia of NATO member armies. For the comparison chart of the commissioned officers, see Ranks and insignia of NATO armies officers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858391", "title": "UP: Unified Praise", "text": "UP: Unified Praise\n\nUP: Unified Praise is a live praise and worship album of Praise & worship by the Australian Hillsong Church and English band Delirious?. The album appeared on the \"Billboard\" Top Heatseekers and reached No. 24 on the Top Christian Albums Chart.\n\n\"UP: Unified Praise\" was recorded live at the Sydney SuperDome by Darlene Zschech and the Hillsong Team with special guests Delirious? at the Hillsong Conference 2003, at which there were over 20,000 people.\n\n\n\nElectric Guitar\n\nBass guitar\n\nDrums\n"}
{"id": "1858394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858394", "title": "Norman Cota", "text": "Norman Cota\n\nMajor General Norman Daniel \"Dutch\" Cota, Sr. (May 30, 1893 – October 4, 1971) was a senior United States Army officer who fought during World War II. Cota was heavily involved in the planning and execution of the Allied invasion of Normandy, in June 1944, codenamed Operation Neptune, and the subsequent Battle of Normandy. He is famous for rallying demoralized troops on Omaha Beach on D-Day, by engaging in combat with them and personally leading their first successful breakout, for which he was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross.\n\nCota was born in Chelsea, Massachusetts, the son of George William Cota, a former railroad telegrapher (later a merchant), and Jessie H. Mason, a school teacher. He attended Worcester Academy for three years beginning in the fall of 1910. While playing football there, his teammates nicknamed him \"Dutch\", and the name stuck with him, although its origins remained unclear.\n\nIn June 1913, he was accepted to the United States Military Academy (USMA) at West Point, New York. He and the rest of his class graduated seven weeks ahead of schedule, on April 20, 1917, because of the American entry into World War I. His classmates included Matthew Ridgway, J. Lawton Collins, Mark W. Clark, Ernest N. Harmon, Laurence B. Keiser, Bryant Moore, Charles H. Gerhardt, Frederick Augustus Irving, and William Kelly Harrison, Jr., all of whom become general officers. Cota (West Point class of 1917) and Dwight D. Eisenhower (West Point class of 1915) got to know one another while playing football at West Point. They became and remained good friends.\n\nCota was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Infantry Branch of the United States Army, and his first assignment was with the 22nd Infantry Regiment. Due to the outbreak of war Cota was quickly promoted to first lieutenant, then captain after only a few months. By the time he had accumulated 18 months of active duty, he was a major. He was assigned to become an instructor at the USMA shortly before the end of the war on November 11, 1918, serving there until 1920.\n\nIn 1919, the now peacetime army underwent \"massive downsizing\" and he was reduced in rank to captain. While Post Financial Officer at Langley Field, Virginia, in 1922, he was held personally responsible when the post was robbed of $43,000. It took an appeal to Congress for him to be absolved of having to personally repay the stolen funds.\n\nHe later served in Hawaii (1924–1928) and graduated from the U.S. Army Command and General Staff College (CGSC) at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas in June 1931. His student paper \"Study of the dispositions of the Turkish 19th Division on the night of April 24–25 and its operations to include the night of April 27–28\" was about the Gallipoli Campaign in World War I. He was an instructor at the U.S. Army Infantry School (1932–1933) and graduated from the U.S. Army War College in 1936. He was an instructor at the U.S. Army Command and General Staff School (1938–1940). He then became the executive officer (XO) for the 16th Infantry Regiment at Fort Jay, Governors Island, New York.\n\nAt the outbreak of World War II, he was the G-2 Officer (Intelligence) and then G-3 Officer (Plans and Training) of the 1st Infantry Division from March 1941 until June 1942. In June 1942, he was promoted to chief of staff of the division, a position he held until February 1943.\n\nIn February 1943, right after his involvement in the Allied invasion of North Africa, under the command of Major General Terry Allen, he prepared a report which included suggested revisions to the task organization of assault divisions, and his recommendations were adopted during preparations for Operation Husky, the codename for the Allied invasion of Sicily. He was promoted to the one-star general officer rank of brigadier general and was quickly sent to the United Kingdom, where he served as the American advisor to the Combined Operations Division of the European Theater of Operations. In that capacity, Cota helped supervise the training for amphibious landing operations.\n\nAs a major advisor in Operation Overlord, he was made the assistant division commander of the 29th Infantry Division, which was designated to land at Omaha Beach during the Battle of Normandy. The 29th Division, a National Guard formation nicknamed the \"Blue and Grey\", was commanded by his fellow West Point classmate, Major General Charles H. Gerhardt. During the planning for D-Day, he opposed daylight landings, believing a pre-dawn assault would stand a better chance of success. A year before the invasion, at the Conference on Landing Assaults, Cota had argued in favor of striving for tactical surprise:\n. . . It is granted that strategical surprise will be impossible to attain. Tactical surprise is another thing however... . tactical surprise is one of the most powerful factors in determining success. I therefore, favor the night landing. I do not believe the daylight assault can succeed.\nCota was not alone in his opposition. Major General Leonard T. Gerow, commander of V Corps, and Admiral John L. Hall, Jr., commander of Amphibious Force \"O\" (the naval force responsible for delivery of the 1st Infantry Division to the beach), both fought to change the Operation Overlord plan, pleading for a nighttime assault.\n\nHowever, the high command decided otherwise, concluding that naval and air bombardment would hopefully neutralize, or in the best case, eradicate, enemy opposition. The plan for Omaha essentially called for hurling infantry directly at a prepared enemy position, a position that was enhanced by the concave shape of the beach (effectively promoting enemy crossfire into the \"basin\" of the concavity), natural and man-made obstacles, bad weather and other factors.\n\nMost D-Day commanders assured their men that the Germans would be annihilated by the Allies' pre-invasion firepower, and that the defenders were, in any case, outnumbered, inexperienced and demoralized. All of these beliefs were to be proved woefully inaccurate. On the afternoon of June 5, Cota gave an accurate assessment to the staff of the 29th Infantry Division:\nThis is different from any of the other exercises that you've had so far. The little discrepancies that we tried to correct on Slapton Sands are going to be magnified and are going to give way to incidents that you might at first view as chaotic . . . You're going to find confusion. The landing craft aren't going in on schedule and people are going to be landed in the wrong place. Some won't be landed at all . . . We must improvise, carry on, not lose our heads.\nWhile Cota had a far less optimistic view of the plan than the high command, even he underrated the extent of the near-catastrophe that awaited V Corps (composed of the 29th Infantry Division and the famous \"Big Red One\" 1st Infantry Division) on Omaha Beach.\n\nCota landed with a part of the 116th Infantry Regiment, part of the 29th Division, in the second wave, approximately one hour after H-Hour on the Omaha sector known as Dog White. His LCVP landing craft came under heavy machine-gun fire as well as mortar and light artillery fire; three soldiers were killed immediately upon leading the disembarkation.\n\nCota was one of the highest-ranking officers on the beach that day. After landing on the beach, he personally rallied shell-shocked, pinned-down survivors to open one of the first vehicle exits off the beach. Cota and his men advanced to the seawall, where they used bangalore torpedoes and wire cutters to punch through. They then destroyed a machine-gun nest, after which they made a breakthrough from Omaha Beach. Two quotes Cota spoke during the initial fighting later became famous:\n\n\nWith the coast of Normandy eventually secured, Allied forces advanced toward Paris. On August 14, 1944, Cota was relieved as assistant division commander by Leroy H. Watson and assigned to command the 28th Infantry Division, succeeding Brigadier General James Edward Wharton, who had been killed in action. After attempting to trap the retreating Germans at Le Neubourg and Elbeuf on the Seine River, Cota and the 28th Division were assigned to represent the U.S. Army in the parade celebrating the liberation of Paris. Later that year, while in the field, he was promoted to major general.\n\nAs the commanding general of the 28th Infantry Division, Major General Cota's division was involved in the Battle of Hürtgen Forest, conceived by Lieutenant General Omar Bradley, the U.S. 12th Army Group commander, as a direct assault on established German positions in the heavily forested region, positions which significantly favored the defenders. Cota was not pleased with the operations order he was given. It required him to send three regiments on diverging paths to three different objectives. Further, his division would be the only unit attacking on a front. His complaints were given little weight by his immediate superior, the V Corps commander, Major General Leonard Gerow.\n\nThe northern and southern thrusts achieved little. The center regiment, the 112th Infantry, captured two villages and a town, but was eventually driven back by German counterattacks. In an article written for the U.S. Army Combined Center, Lieutenant Colonel (ret) Thomas Bradbeer identified \"three crucial mistakes\" that Cota made. First, neither he nor his staff ordered reconnaissance patrols. Second, he selected, sight unseen, an extremely narrow trail as the division's main supply route. Finally, he chose not to employ the extra armor units he was given in support of his infantry, believing the terrain and road system to be unsuitable for their use, whereas much of the forest was in fact accessible. Instead, the tanks were used as supplementary artillery. Furthermore, Lieutenant General Bradley criticized Cota for remaining in his command post, visiting the front only once late in the fighting, by which time he had already lost control of the situation.\n\nCota's division sustained heavy losses and failed to secure its objectives. The 28th Infantry Division and its attached units suffered 6,184 casualties; the 112th Infantry Regiment alone had 2,316 casualties out of a total strength of 3,100. While Cota retained command of the division to the end of the war, during which he led it in the invasion of Germany, he had lost his sterling military reputation and the confidence of his superiors, despite the fact that, before commencement of operations, he had voiced concerns regarding the plan to those same superiors.\n\nCota also reviewed and approved the death sentence handed down by a court-martial on Private Eddie Slovik, who refused combat duty on October 8, 1944 and was executed on January 31, 1945. Cota said that the execution, the only American soldier to be executed for desertion since the American Civil War, was the \"toughest 15 minutes of my life\".\n\nCota retired from the army on 30 June 1946 as a major general. In August, he was hired as administrator for Zone One of the War Assets Administration.\n\nIn the late 1950s, he was the civil defense director for Montgomery County, Pennsylvania.\n\nHe died in Wichita, Kansas, on 4 October 1971, and is buried with his wife Connie at the West Point Cemetery, USMA, West Point, New York.\n\nCota married writer and teacher Constance Martha \"Connie\" Alexander at the Episcopal Church of the Incarnation in New York City on November 1, 1919.\n\nThe Cotas were the parents of two children, Ann (23 October 1920 – 31 August 1996), the first girl born at the cadet hospital at West Point and Norman Daniel \"Dan\" Cota Jr. (15 December 1921 – 18 March 1988). Cota's son was a U.S. Army Air Corps fighter pilot and provided reconnaissance for the 28th Division during the Battle of Hürtgen Forest.\n\nAfter his first wife's death in 1969, in October 1970 Cota married Alice Weeks-McCutcheon.\n\nCota was awarded the Distinguished Service Cross (DSC), Distinguished Service Order (DSO) and Silver Star for his heroism on Omaha Beach. Field Marshal Sir Bernard L. Montgomery pinned the DSO on Cota. He received a Purple Heart and a second Silver Star in the attack at Saint-Lô.\n\nCota's decorations included:\n\nCota is a central character in the film \"The Longest Day\", a historical drama about the D-Day landings. In the film, Eddie Albert, who portrayed Colonel Paul Thompson of the 6th Special Engineer Brigade, spoke Cota's \"let us go inland\" quote. Robert Mitchum, who portrayed Cota, delivered another quote in his dialogue, one actually attributed to Colonel George A. Taylor: \"There are only two kinds of people who are staying on this beach: those who are already dead and those that are gonna die. Now get off your butts, you guys are the fightin' 29th.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858401", "title": "Meathead (band)", "text": "Meathead (band)\n\nMeathead is a rock band from Italy.\n\nMauro Teho Teardo (vox, guitar, sampler), Deison (sampler, vox), G.No (bass), V.Dunmore (noises, tapes, files), Nicky (drums), Matt (drums) Wayne Rooney (Actual Meathead)\n\nMeathead released their first album, \"Street Knowledge\", in 1992, it was a mix of indie sound, hip-hop, electric engines, industrial noises and anger lyrics talking about underground culture.\n\nIn 1993, after a long tour (also as supporter for Helmet and Biohazard), the band was asked to write a track for the compilation tribute to Charles Manson, \"Coming down fast\".\n\nIn the 1994 Meathead started an intensive collaboration with Paolo Favati from Pankow, who worked at the production of single \"Dick Smoker\". Follows up the album \"Bored Stiff\", distributed in Europe, and the mini album under the new name Circus of Pain and titled \"The Swamp Meat Intoxication\" as the result of the collaboration with the Swiss band Swamp Terrorists.\n\nThe \"Meathead against the world\" cd (1995–96), represents the complex experience of collaborations of the band with the most relevant artists of the international underground scene like Cop Shoot Cop, Pain Teens, Zeni Geva, Babyland, Scorn, Bewitched.\n\nIn 1997, the album \"Protect Me From What I Want\" was released and distributed in both Europa and USA by Dynamica/Noise records.\nAfter the release Meathead stopped all the activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858402", "title": "Templebeat", "text": "Templebeat\n\nTemplebeat was an Italian industrial rock band.\n\nTemplebeat began their activity in 1990. The tape compilation \"Tribute to PTV\" powered by T.O.P.Y.TV (Italian semi-official branch of Thee Temple ov Psychic Youth) contained their remake of \"Ov Power\", de-constructed in a hardbeat way.\n1991: TB won the prestigious festival contest \"Arezzo Wave\" and consequently had their song \"Fuckin' Mosquito\" included on the double LP/CD \"Arezzo Wave 1991\" released by Polygram records. Their gig in Arezzo was recorded, filmed and entirely broadcast by the TV music channel \"VideoMusic\".\n\nAt the end of 1991 TB issued a 3 tracks EP on 12\" entitled \"Auto Da Fe'\". This genuinely produced and marketed 12\" sold 1,100 copies in Italy alone and only a few copies found their way to other European countries or overseas.\n\nThe unexpected success of this first release helped the band to get their first deal with DUNE Records, the Contempo manufactured label of Pankow's Paolo Favati - certainly the most acclaimed producer for electronic music in Italy. The result \"Wargasm\" - a 6 track CD-Single entirely produced by Paolo F. and FM of Pankow quickly turned out to be another successful step. The single was distributed throughout the world and topped Electro charts in Germany (Technoclub), England (Hardclub, Eurobeat 2000) and especially Scandinavia. \"Einstein On The Beach\" a track from \"Wargasm\" - became a video clip that got heavy rotation on Videomusic and 3 appearances on MTV's 120 Minutes.\n\nAlthough several interesting offers came in from labels all around Europe, the band refused all approaches in order to concentrate on the work for their first full album, again produced by Paolo Favati and his production company Dune. While working on \"Black Suburbia\" (The title of the album), offers started to come in for live-appearances in Europe and the band joined Pankow on their very last tour 1992/93. Templebeat's concert in Prague has subsequently been filmed and broadcast on MTV's \"120 Minutes\" alongside an interview with the band.\n\nAs an immediate result of their TV appearance (4/93) earlier contacts with foreign labels have been renewed and new offers for record deals started flooding in.\n\nIn November 1993 finally, Dune and Templebeat decided to assign all national and international rights on the band to Audioglobe's Sub/Mission label.\n\n\"Black Suburbia\" the band's first album was licensed worldwide to\nNoise/Machinery records in Berlin and appeared in June 1994. Two singles \"Heidi S.\" and \"Interzone\" quickly became real dancefloor and headbanger classics in the German and American club scenes, and \"Black Suburbia\" has been successfully launched onto the American market in February 1995.\n\nDiscography and tapeography\n\n\"Ov Power\" in Tribute to Ptv (TOPY TV Italy, 1990)\n\n\"Xperience\" in Xybernethnix (TOPY TV Italy, 1991)\n\n\"Hide and seek\" in From thelematics to telepathics (TOPY TV Italy, 1992)\n\nAuto Da Fe' 12\" (1991) :TB Records\n\nWargasm CDS (1992) :Dune Records: DUNE920D107\n\nHeidi S. CDS (5/1994) : Dynamica: DY 4-\nBlack Suburbia (6/1994) :Sub/Mission: WHIP006cd\n\nInterzone CDS (10/1994) :Dynamica: DY 12-3\n\nWicked CDS (11/1995) :Sub/Mission: WHIP021cd\nMediasickness (1996) :Sub/Mission: WHIP022cd\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858403", "title": "Think About Mutation", "text": "Think About Mutation\n\nThink About Mutation (TAM) was a crossover band from Germany. They were together for about 10 years (1992-2002) and in their early days set a landmark by mixing up house music elements and heavy guitars. Their progressive sound made them a big influence to modern electronic music as well\nas to the guitar scene. The band released 5 albums and 6 singles. \nIn 2006, two ex-members of the band formed a new project, called The Sonic Boom Foundation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858407", "title": "Second Skin (band)", "text": "Second Skin (band)\n\nSecond Skin is an American gothic rock band formed in 1991 by singer-songwriter Arron, the frontman of the Seattle-based band, Flesh of my Flesh. Second Skin's sound has been described as \"a culmination of punk aggression, early Gothic sensibility and Death Rock driven passions\" with \"hard rhythmic beats and dark backdrops.\"\n\nFeatured in Mick Mercer's \"Music to Die For\", a listing of bands that were influential in the gothic rock scene, as well as Oskar Terramortis' upcoming \"This is Gothic Rock\" book (to be released in 2013), Second Skin has played alongside Rozz Williams (of bands Christian Death and Shadow Project), the Mission UK, the Misfits, Killing Joke, Andi Sexgang, Gary Numan, Missing Persons, Modern English, Human Drama, The Damned, and New Model Army, and has been featured on over 30 studio albums, EPs and compilations.\n\nSecond Skin's single \"Liberata Me\" inspired the film of the same name, \"Liberata Me,\" which won best short subject at the New York Film festival. The film featured music and a cameo by Second Skin. Director Pearry Reginald Teo then cast Arron of Second Skin to play the gatekeeper of purgatory in the follow-up, award-winning film \"Children of the Arcana.\"\n\nSecond Skin is also the first band to produce a darkwave/deathrock 3D music video.\n\nSecond Skin's latest release, \"Illa Exuro In Silentium\", the band's fourth studio album, is the follow-up to the band's 2005 album \"Black Eyed Angel\".\n\nIn August 2013, it was announced that Second Skin's fifth studio album will be released in the fall of 2013.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1858448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1858448", "title": "Nomad (Jesse Cook album)", "text": "Nomad (Jesse Cook album)\n\nNomad is the fifth studio album by guitarist Jesse Cook. The album has guest appearances by Flora Purim and Kurt Neumann and Sam Llanas of the BoDeans.\n\nAll songs written by Jesse Cook except where noted.\n\n"}
