{"id": "1859668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859668", "title": "The Celestial Toymaker", "text": "The Celestial Toymaker\n\nThe Celestial Toymaker is the mostly missing sixth serial of the third season in the British science fiction television programme \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 2 to 23 April 1966. In it the Doctor and his companions are pitted against a powerful adversary called the Celestial Toymaker. He separates the Doctor from his companions, and all are forced to win a series of games before they can be reunited and return to the TARDIS.\n\nOnly the last episode of this story, \"The Final Test\", is held in the BBC archives; the other three remain missing. \"The Final Test\" has been released on VHS and DVD, and the story has been novelised.\n\nAn alien intelligence has invaded the TARDIS and rendered the First Doctor invisible, leaving Dodo and Steven incredulous. They step outside into a strange realm where the Doctor reappears. They have come to the realm of the Celestial Toymaker, an eternal being of infinite power who sets games and traps for the unwary so that they become his playthings. The Doctor and the Toymaker have faced each other before, and the Toymaker abducts his old adversary to another place. The Doctor appears in the Toymaker’s study, where he is given the Trilogic game, a ten-piece puzzle (similar to the Tower of Hanoi) whose pieces must all be moved and remounted in a 1023-move sequence. \n\nSteven and Dodo face different challenges. The first are two clowns, Joey and Clara, full of childish tricks and a dangerous game of Blind Man's Bluff. The clowns are made to replay the game when it is clear they are cheating, and the second time round Joey loses his footing on an obstacle course and the challengers are transformed into twisted dolls on the floor. Steven and Dodo then venture down a corridor into another chamber with three chairs and a challenge from living playing cards, the King and Queen of Hearts, along with a Knave and a Joker. An adjoining room has a further four chairs, and Steven deduces that six of the seven chairs are deadly to sit on. Seven mannequins are provided to be used for testing on the chairs. The King and Queen play alongside them, and some of the mannequins are destroyed as seats are proven unsafe and eliminated. The King and Queen are trapped when they sit in a chair which folds in on them. \n\nThe next hurdle for Steven and Dodo are the comical Sgt. Rugg and Mrs. Wiggs, who hold court in a kitchen. They challenge them to hunt the thimble – the key to the exit door. Dodo finds the key inside the large pie which Mrs Wiggs was making. She and Steven depart and enter another room with a dancing floor. There they encounter the three mannequins not destroyed by the chairs, who transform into ballerinas and start to dance. At the far end of the floor is the TARDIS. Steven and Dodo get trapped as partners with two of the dolls and only free themselves by swapping their partners for each other. They pelt on to the TARDIS, but the police box is a fake.\n\nThe Toymaker chooses Cyril the schoolboy to take on his companions. Dodo and Steven find themselves in a vast game of hopscotch against Cyril, who slips on a triangle he has booby-trapped and is electrocuted. Dodo and Steven thus reach the TARDIS.\n\nIn the Toymaker’s study at the same time, the Doctor is at the final stage of the Trilogic Game. The three friends are reunited, with Steven and Dodo sent into the TARDIS for safety while the Toymaker challenges the Doctor to complete the Game. The Doctor realises that when he makes the move and the Game is won, the Toymaker’s domain will disappear – and the TARDIS with it. He orders the last piece to move using the Toymaker’s voice from inside the TARDIS, allowing them to depart while the Toymaker’s world is destroyed.\n\nAll episodes of this story except Episode 4, \"The Final Test\", are missing from the BBC archives.\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The Toymaker\" and \"The Trilogic Game\". Brian Hayles was unavailable to do necessary rewrites, so then script editor Donald Tosh performed them. As Tosh would no longer be script editor by the time the story was transmitted, he agreed with Hayles to take the writer's credit, with Hayles being credited for the idea. After Tosh finished work on the scripts, his successor, Gerry Davis, was forced to make further rewrites due to a budget shortfall. Tosh was unhappy with the rewrites and refused to be credited, while Davis could not take a credit because he was the series' script editor. As a result of this, Hayles was the sole credited author on the final serial, despite the fact that he had not worked on it in three months and the final scripts bore little to no resemblance to what he wrote.\n\nWilliam Hartnell was on holiday during the recordings of Episodes 2 & 3, \"The Hall of Dolls\" and \"The Dancing Floor\". Pre-recordings of his voice were heard in episode 2 and Albert Ward was a hand double (sporting the Doctor's ring) for scenes where the mostly invisible Doctor played the Trilogic Game throughout the story. The story was commissioned by producer John Wiles, who left the series before it was recorded after several clashes with William Hartnell. His intention was to replace Hartnell in the role of the Doctor during the story, having the character reappear in a new guise after the invisibility was removed by the Toymaker. The BBC's head of serials, Gerald Savory, vetoed the idea, leading to Wiles quitting in protest.\n\nMichael Gough later appeared in the Fifth Doctor story \"Arc of Infinity\" (1983). Peter Stephens later appeared in the Second Doctor story \"The Underwater Menace\" (1967). Carmen Silvera later appeared in the Third Doctor story \"Invasion of the Dinosaurs\" (1974).\n\n Episode is missing\n\nBBC Television, the producers, received complaints from lawyers acting on behalf of the late Frank Richards' estate. The character Cyril (played by Peter Stephens) was said to bear a remarkable resemblance to Billy Bunter. The BBC subsequently issued a disclaimer saying that Cyril was merely \"Bunter-like\".\n\nThe BBC's Audience Research Report on the final episode found that it \"had little appeal for a large proportion of the sample, over a third of whom actually disliked it.\" Some found the episode to be lacking in action and it was also criticised for 'ham' acting, although other viewers had enjoyed the cast's performance. The audience sample mostly found the story as a whole to be too different to the usual \"Doctor Who\" story format, being more of a whimsical fantasy. The most critical viewers dismissed it as \"ridiculous rubbish\", others said that although disliking it themselves, their children had enjoyed it.\n\nThe serial was positively received by Patrick Mulkern of Radio Times who said the first episode was \"undoubtedly a fantasy classic\". Mulkern thought that Michael Gough did not get much screen time in his role as the Toymaker, but \"exudes menace ... and has that fabulous voice.\" The review also praised Dudley Simpson's musical score, and the \"excellent\" costume and design.\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Gerry Davis and Alison Bingeman, was published by Target Books in June 1986. It is one of the few \"Doctor Who\" novels (original or adapted) to be written by more than one person.\n\nThe fourth episode, \"The Final Test\", was released on \"The Hartnell Years\" VHS in 1991, albeit with the \"Next Episode\" caption rather clumsily cut from the cliffhanger scene (this was unavoidable, as the 16mm black & white film telerecording was itself incomplete). In November 2004, \"The Final Test\" was released in digitally re-mastered form (with the \"Next Episode\" caption restored) on DVD in Region 1 and Region 2 in a three-disc \"Lost in Time\" box set.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859669", "title": "Parsons code", "text": "Parsons code\n\nThe Parsons code, formally named the Parsons code for melodic contours, is a simple notation used to identify a piece of music through melodic motion — movements of the pitch up and down. Denys Parsons developed this system for his 1975 book \"The Directory of Tunes and Musical Themes\". Representing a melody in this manner makes it easier to index or search for pieces, particularly when the notes values are unknown. Parsons covered around 15,000 classical, popular and folk pieces in his dictionary. In the process he found out that *UU is the most popular opening contour, used in 23% of all the themes, something that applies to all the genres. \n\nThe book was also published in Germany in 2002 and reissued by Piatkus in 2008 as the \"Directory of Classical Themes\".\n\nAn earlier method of classifying and indexing melody was devised by Harold Barlow and Sam Morgenstern in \"A Dictionary of Musical Themes\" (1950).\n\nThe first note of a melody is denoted with an asterisk (*), although some Parsons code users omit the first note. All succeeding notes are denoted with one of three letters to indicate the relationship of its pitch to the previous note:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859674", "title": "Moscow Declarations", "text": "Moscow Declarations\n\nThe Moscow Declarations were four declarations signed during the Moscow Conference on October 30, 1943. The declarations are distinct from the Communique that was issued following the Moscow Conference of 1945. They were signed by the foreign secretaries of the Governments of the United States, the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the Republic of China. Four declarations were signed at the conference: The Declaration of the Four Nations on General Security, the Declaration on Italy, the Declaration on Austria, and the Declarations on Atrocities.\n\nIn the section \"Joint Four-Nation Declaration\", the governments of the United States of America, United Kingdom, the Soviet Union, and Nationalist China, in accordance with the declaration by United Nations of January, 1942, and subsequent declarations, to continue hostilities against those Axis powers with which they respectively are at war until such powers have laid down their arms on the basis of unconditional surrender. They also recognize the necessity of establishing at the earliest practicable date a general international organization (the United Nations), based on the principle of the sovereign equality of all peace-loving states, and open to membership by all such states, large and small, for the maintenance of international peace and security.\n\nIn the Declaration on Italy, the foreign secretaries of the US, UK and USSR declared that fascism and its influence should be completely destroyed and that the Italian people should be given every opportunity to establish governmental and other institutions based on democratic principles.\n\nIn the Declaration on Austria, the Foreign Secretaries of US, UK and USSR declared that the annexation (\"Anschluss\") of Austria by Germany was null and void. It called for the establishment of a free Austria after the victory over Nazi Germany.\n\n\"The governments of the United Kingdom, the Soviet Union and the United States of America are agreed that Austria, the first free country to fall a victim to Hitlerite aggression, shall be liberated from German domination.\"\n\n\"They regard the annexation imposed upon Austria by Germany on March 15, 1938, as null and void. They consider themselves as in no way bound by any changes effected in Austria since that date. They declare that they wish to see re-established a free and independent Austria and thereby to open the way for the Austrian people themselves, as well as those neighbouring states which will be faced with similar problems, to find that political and economic security which is the only basis for lasting peace.\"\n\n\"Austria is reminded, however that she has a responsibility, which she cannot evade, for participation in the war on the side of Hitlerite Germany, and that in the final settlement account will inevitably be taken of her own contribution to her liberation.\"\n\nThe Declaration on Atrocities was signed by the U.S. President Franklin D. Roosevelt, British Prime Minister Winston Churchill and Soviet Premier Joseph Stalin. They noted that \"\"evidence of atrocities, massacres and cold-blooded mass executions which are being perpetrated by Hitlerite forces in many of the countries they have overrun and from which they are now being steadily expelled\"\". They went on to state that Germans would be sent back to the countries where they had committed their crimes and \"\"judged on the spot by the peoples whom they have outraged\"\". As for those Germans whose criminal offenses had no particular geographical localization, they would be punished by joint decision of the governments of the Allies.\n\nThe \"Statement on Atrocities\" was largely drafted by Winston Churchill, and led to the setting up of the European Advisory Commission which drafted the London Charter.\n"}
{"id": "1859694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859694", "title": "Bioindicator", "text": "Bioindicator\n\nA bioindicator is any species (an indicator species) or group of species whose function, population, or status can reveal the qualitative status of the environment. For example, copepods and other small water crustaceans that are present in many water bodies can be monitored for changes (biochemical, physiological, or behavioural) that may indicate a problem within their ecosystem. Bioindicators can tell us about the cumulative effects of different pollutants in the ecosystem and about how long a problem may have been present, which physical and chemical testing cannot.\n\nA biological monitor or biomonitor is an organism that provides quantitative information on the quality of the environment around it. Therefore, a good biomonitor will indicate the presence of the pollutant and can also be used in an attempt to provide additional information about the amount and intensity of the exposure.\n\nA biological indicator is also the name given to a process for assessing the sterility of an environment through the use of resistant microorganism strains (eg. \"Bacillus\" or \"Geobacillus\"). Biological indicators can be described as the introduction of a highly resistant microorganisms to a given environment before sterilization, tests are conducted to measure the effectiveness of the sterilization processes. As biological indicators use highly resistant microorganisms, any sterilization process that renders them inactive will have also killed off more common, weaker pathogens.\n\nA bioindicator is an organism or biological response that reveals the presence of pollutants by the occurrence of typical symptoms or measurable responses and is, therefore, more qualitative. \nThese organisms (or communities of organisms) can be used to deliver information on alterations in the environment or the quantity of environmental pollutants by changing in one of the following ways: physiologically, chemically or behaviourally. \nThe information can be deduced through the study of:\n\n\nThe importance and relevance of biomonitors, rather than man-made equipment, are justified by the observation that the best indicator of the status of a species or system is itself. Bioindicators can reveal indirect biotic effects of pollutants when many physical or chemical measurements cannot. Through bioindicators, scientists need to observe only the single indicating species to check on the environment rather than monitor the whole community.\n\nThe use of a biomonitor is described as biological monitoring and is the use of the properties of an organism to obtain information on certain aspects of the biosphere. Biomonitoring of air pollutants can be passive or active. Experts use passive methods to observe plants growing naturally within the area of interest. Active methods are used to detect the presence of air pollutants by placing test plants of known response and genotype into the study area.\n\nThe use of a biomonitor is described as biological monitoring. This refers to the measurement of specific properties of an organism to obtain information on the surrounding physical and chemical environment\n\nBioaccumulative indicators are frequently regarded as biomonitors. Depending on the organism selected and their use, there are several types of bioindicators.\n\nIn most instances, baseline data for biotic conditions within a pre-determined reference site are collected. Reference sites must be characterized by little to no outside disturbance (e.g. anthropogenic disturbances, land use change, invasive species). The biotic conditions of a specific indicator species are measured within both the reference site and the study region over time. Data collected from the study region are compared against similar data collected from the reference site in order to infer the relative environmental health or integrity of the study region.\n\nAn important limitation of bioindicators in general is that they have been reported as inaccurate when applied to geographically and environmentally diverse regions. As a result, researchers who use bioindicators need to consistently ensure that each set of indices is relevant within the environmental conditions they plan to monitor.\n\nThe presence or absence of certain plant or other vegetative life in an ecosystem can provide important clues about the health of the environment: environmental preservation. There are several types of plant biomonitors, including mosses, lichens, tree bark, bark pockets, tree rings, and leaves. Fungi too may be useful as indicators.\n\nLichens are organisms comprising both fungi and algae. They are found on rocks and tree trunks, and they respond to environmental changes in forests, including changes in forest structure – conservation biology, air quality, and climate. The disappearance of lichens in a forest may indicate environmental stresses, such as high levels of sulfur dioxide, sulfur-based pollutants, and nitrogen oxides.\nThe composition and total biomass of algal species in aquatic systems serve as an important metric for organic water pollution and nutrient loading such as nitrogen and phosphorus.\nThere are genetically engineered organisms that can respond to toxicity levels in the environment; \"e.g.\", a type of genetically engineered grass that grows a different colour if there are toxins in the soil.\n\nChanges in animal populations, whether increases or decreases, can indicate pollution. For example, if pollution causes depletion of a plant, animal species that depend on that plant will experience population decline. Conversely, overpopulation may be opportunistic growth of a species in response to loss of other species in an ecosystem. On the other hand, stress-induced sub-lethal effects can be manifested in animal physiology, morphology, and behaviour of individuals long before responses are expressed and observed at the population level. Such sub-lethal responses can be very useful as \"early warning signals\" to predict how populations will further respond.\n\nPollution and other stress agents can be monitored by measuring any of several variables in animals: the concentration of toxins in animal tissues; the rate at which deformities arise in animal populations; behaviour in the field or in the laboratory; and by assessing changes in individual physiology.\n\nAmphibians, particularly anurans (frogs and toads), are increasingly used as bioindicators of contaminant accumulation in pollution studies. Anurans absorb toxic chemicals through their skin and larval gill membranes and are sensitive to alterations in their environment. They have a poor ability to detoxify pesticides that are absorbed, inhaled, or ingested by eating contaminated food. This allows residues, especially of organochlorine pesticides, to accumulate in their systems. They also have permeable skin that can easily absorb toxic chemicals, making them a model organism for assessing the effects of environmental factors that may cause the declines of the amphibian population. These factors allow them to be used as bioindicator organisms to follow changes in their habitats and in ecotoxicological studies due to humans increasing demands on the environment.\n\nKnowledge and control of environmental agents is essential for sustaining the health of ecosystems. Anurans are increasingly utilized as bioindicator organisms in pollution studies, such as studying the effects of agricultural pesticides on the environment. Environmental assessment to study the environment in which they live is performed by analyzing their abundance in the area as well as assessing their locomotive ability and any abnormal morphological changes, which are deformities and abnormalities in development. Decline of anurans and malformations could also suggest increased exposure to ultra-violet light and parasites.\n\nPond-breeding anurans are especially sensitive to pollution because of their complex life cycles, which could consist of terrestrial and aquatic living. During their embryonic development, morphological and behavioral alterations are the effects most frequently cited in connection with chemical exposures. Effects of exposure may result in shorter body length, lower body mass and malformations of limbs or other organs. The slow development, late morphological change, and small metamorph size result in increased risk of mortality and exposure to predation.\n\nCrayfish have also been hypothesized as being suitable bioindicators, under the appropriate conditions.\n\nMicroorganisms can be used as indicators of aquatic or terrestrial ecosystem health. Found in large quantities, microorganisms are easier to sample than other organisms. Some microorganisms will produce new proteins, called stress proteins, when exposed to contaminants such as cadmium and benzene. These stress proteins can be used as an early warning system to detect changes in levels of pollution.\n\nMicrobial Prospecting for oil and gas (MPOG) is often used to identify prospective areas for oil and gas occurrences. In many cases, oil and gas is known to seep toward the surface as a hydrocarbon reservoir will usually leak or have leaked towards the surface through buoyancy forces overcoming sealing pressures. These hydrocarbons can alter the chemical and microbial occurrences found in the near-surface soils or can be picked up directly. Techniques used for MPOG include DNA analysis, simple bug counts after culturing a soil sample in a hydrocarbon-based medium or by looking at the consumption of hydrocarbon gases in a culture cell.\n\nMicroalgae have gained attention in recent years due to several reasons including their greater sensitivity to pollutants than many other organisms. In addition, they occur abundantly in nature, they are an essential component in very many food webs, they are easy to culture and to use in assays and there are few if any ethical issues involved in their use.\n\n\"Euglena gracilis\" is a motile, freshwater, photosynthetic flagellate. Although \"Euglena\" is rather tolerant to acidity, it responds rapidly and sensitively to environmental stresses such as heavy metals or inorganic and organic compounds. Typical responses are the inhibition of movement and a change of orientation parameters. Moreover, this organism is very easy to handle and grow, making it a very useful tool for eco-toxicological assessments. One very useful particularity of this organism is gravitactic orientation, which is very sensitive to pollutants. The gravireceptors are impaired by pollutants such as heavy metals and organic or inorganic compounds. Therefore, the presence of such substances is associated with random movement of the cells in the water column. For short-term tests, gravitactic orientation of \"E. gracilis\" is very sensitive.\nOther species such as \"Paramecium biaurelia\" (see \"Paramecium aurelia\") also use gravitactic orientation.\n\nAutomatic bioassay is possible, using the flagellate \"Euglena gracilis\" in a device which measures their motility at different dilutions of the possibly polluted water sample, to determine the EC (the concentration of sample which affects 50 percent of organisms) and the G-value (lowest dilution factor at which no-significant toxic effect can be measured).\n\nMacroinvertebrates are useful and convenient indicators of the ecological health of water bodies and terrestrial ecosystems. They are almost always present, and are easy to sample and identify. This is largely due to the fact that most macro-invertebrates are visible to the naked eye, they typically have a short life-cycle (often the length of a single season) and are generally sedentary. Pre-existing river conditions such as river type and flow will affect macro invertebrate assemblages and so various methods and indices will be appropriate for specific stream types and within specific eco-regions. While some benthic macroinvertebrates are highly tolerant to various types of water pollution, others are not. Changes in population size and species type in specific study regions indicate the physical and chemical state of streams and rivers. Tolerance values are commonly used to assess water pollution and environmental degradation, such as human activities (e.g. selective logging and wildfires) in tropical forests.\nBenthic macroinvertebrates are found within the benthic zone of a stream or river. They consist of aquatic insects, crustaceans, worms and mollusks that live in the vegetation and stream beds of rivers. Macroinvertebrate species can be found in nearly every stream and river, except in some of the world's harshest environments. They also can be found in mostly any size of stream or river, prohibiting only those that dry up within a short timeframe. This makes the beneficial for many studies because they can be found in regions where stream beds are too shallow to support larger species such as fish. Benthic indicators are often used to measure the biological components of fresh water streams and rivers. In general, if the biological functioning of a stream is considered to be in good standing, then it is assumed that the chemical and physical components of the stream are also in good condition. Benthic indicators are the most frequently used water quality test within the United States of America. While benthic indicators should not be used to track the origins of stressors in rivers and streams, they can provide background on the types of sources that are often associated with the observed stressors\n\nIn Europe, the Water Framework Directive (WFD) went into effect on October 23rd, 2000. It requires all EU member states to show that all surface and groundwater bodies are in good status. The WFD requires member states to implement monitoring systems to estimate the integrity of biological stream components for specific sub-surface water categories. This requirement increased the incidence of biometrics applied to ascertain stream health in Europe A remote online biomonitoring system was designed in 2006. It is based on bivalve molluscs and the exchange of real-time data between a remote intelligent device in the field (able to work for more than 1 year without \"in-situ\" human intervention) and a data centre designed to capture, process and distribute the web information derived from the data. The technique relates bivalve behaviour, specifically shell gaping activity, to water quality changes. This technology has been successfully used for the assessment of coastal water quality in various countries (France, Spain, Norway, Russia, Svalbard (Ny Alesund) and New Caledonia).\n\nIn the United States, the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) published \"Rapid Bioassessment Protocols,\" in 1999, based on measuring macroinvertebrates, as well as periphyton and fish for assessment of water quality.\n\nIn South Africa, the Southern African Scoring System (SASS) method is based on benthic macroinvertebrates, and is used for the assessment of water quality in South African rivers. The SASS aquatic biomonitoring tool has been refined over the past 30 years and is now on the fifth version (SASS5) in accordance with the ISO/IEC 17025 protocol. The SASS5 method is used by the South African Department of Water Affairs as a standard method for River Health Assessment, which feeds the national River Health Programme and the national Rivers Database.\n\nThe imposex phenomenon in the dog conch species of sea snail leads to the abnormal development of a penis in females, but does not cause sterility. Because of this, the species has been suggested as a good indicator of pollution with organic man-made tin compounds in Malaysian ports.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859714", "title": "Joseph A. Wright", "text": "Joseph A. Wright\n\nJoseph Albert Wright (April 17, 1810 – May 11, 1867) was the tenth governor of the U.S. state of Indiana from December 5, 1849 to January 12, 1857, most noted for his opposition to banking. His positions created a rift between him and the Indiana General Assembly who overrode all of his anti-banking vetoes. He responded by launching legal challenges to the acts, but was ruled against by the Indiana Supreme Court. The state's second constitutional convention was held during 1850–1851 in which the current Constitution of Indiana was drafted. He was a supporter of the new constitution and gave speeches around the state urging its adoption. He was opposed throughout his term by Senator Jesse D. Bright, the leader of the state Democratic Party.\n\nAfter his term as governor, he was appointed to serve as United States Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Prussia where he served until the outbreak of the American Civil War. Although he was a Democrat, he was openly pro-Union during the war, and was elected to serve as a United States Senator, filling the term of Copperhead Jesse D. Bright, who was expelled from the Senate for disloyalty. Following the war he was reappointed to his ambassadorial post where he remained until his death in Berlin, Prussia.\n\nJoseph Albert Wright was born in Washington, Pennsylvania on April 17, 1810 the son of John and Rachel Seaman Wright. He moved with his family to Bloomington, Indiana in 1820, where he attended public school. His father was a bricklayer, and worked as one of the laborers who built the first halls of Indiana State Seminary (now Indiana University). He was the brother of future Iowa Senator George G. Wright. His father died when he was fourteen, and his family become impoverished. Wright worked as a janitor, bell ringer, and occasional bricklayer, in order to pay for his schooling and provide income for his family.\n\nLiving in Bloomington, he was able to attend the seminary while living at home, making the education affordable for him. Many of his classmates were from wealthier families, and he earned money by selling them nuts and fruits he picked in the forest around his home. Wright received a classical education, learning Greek and Latin. He graduated in 1828 and decided to become a lawyer. He studied law in the office of Craven Hester, one of southern Indiana's leading judges and political figures, and was admitted to the bar in 1829. He then moved to Rockville where he opened a law practice where he met Louisa Cook, the daughter of a wealthy local farmer. She was an ardent Methodist who converted Wright before the couple married on November 30, 1831. The couple had a son, but Louisa's poor health and several bouts with malaria prevented her from having more children, leading them to adopt a daughter in 1832. Wright became very active in the Methodist Church and an outspoken advocate of Sunday School and religious study in public schools. Much of his early support came from the church and many of his campaign rallies were held in Methodist churches.\n\nThrough his law office, Wright became a friend of state representative William Perkins Bryant. In 1832, Bryant moved to Kentucky, leaving his seat vacant, and urged Wright to take it. With his support, Wright was elected and served as Park County's representative to the Indiana House of Representatives, serving a one-year term. During the term he supported the charter for the Bank of Indiana, an unpopular act in his district, and he was defeated in his reelection bid. In 1836, supporting internal improvements, he ran again and was elected to serve a second term; it was during the height of the state's internal improvement craze and he voted for the implementing act.\n\nHe left the General Assembly to become the prosecuting attorney of the Indiana 1st circuit in 1838, but found he did not like the constant traveling and resigned the following year. He ran for the Indiana State Senate in 1839. The campaign was hard-fought, occurring in the same year that the Indiana Territory's popular former governor, William Henry Harrison, became President of the United States. Wright ran against Whig candidate Edward W. McGaughty, in a \"bitter and strenuous\" campaign. In one of his opponents tracts, Wright was referred to as the \"Infidel Dog who dares to open his God-deyfing lips\" against Harrison. Wright narrowly won the election by 171 votes. The election caused a great deal of personal animosity between Wright and the Whig party.\n\nAfter the 1840 legislative session, Wright reopened his law office with a new partner, congressman Tilghman A. Howard, a friend of the governor and President Andrew Jackson. At Tilghman's suggestion he ran for Congress in 1843 in his Whig dominated district and won election narrowly, by only three votes. In Congress he opposed the expansion of slavery, but opposed abolition in favor of colonization and gradual emancipation. He was defeated in his 1845 reelection campaign by 171 votes. He ran again in 1847, but was again defeated in a close election. His popularity in a Whig district further helped his standing in the party. He had been a supporter of the independence of the Republic of Texas while in Congress and was appointed by President James Polk to serve as the United States Commissioner to Texas in 1845, a diplomatic post he held throughout the Mexican–American War until the annexation of Texas.\n\nIn 1849, Wright backed Whitcomb in his failed bid for the United States Senate against pro-slavery state Democratic leader Jesse D. Bright. Wright considered Bright to be his greatest foe, and on every occasion possible attempted to thwart his political success. For his loyalty, Whitcomb guaranteed Wright's nomination for governor in the state's 1849 Democratic Convention where Whitcomb presided. The state party had a major divide on the slavery issue and the internal improvement projects. Whitcomb tried to accommodate both side by taking the anti-slavery position and the anti-internal-improvement position.\n\nThe Whigs fielded John Matson to run again Wright in the election. The campaign focused almost exclusively on the issue of slavery and on which party was best positioned to prevent the extension of slavery into Indiana and the western territories, and which party was to blame for the state's bankruptcy which had finally been resolved in 1847. Wright had the most public record of opposing slavery as a congressman, and that seemed to help him in his decisive win at the polls. He was elected to governor, winning by 9,778 votes and took office on December 5, 1849. During the same election, the electorate also approved a constitutional convention to replace the Constitution of Indiana.\n\nAs governor, Wright nevertheless signed the arrest warrant for Methodist minister for Calvin Fairbank, who helped slaves escape from Kentucky on the Underground Railroad. As a result of Wright's signature, Fairbank was kidnapped by Kentuckians in Jeffersonville, Indiana in 1851, dragged to Kentucky for trial, and sentenced to fifteen years' imprisonment under the Fugitive Slave Act of 1850. Fairbank reportedly received over 30,000 lashes in jail until he was pardoned in 1864.\n\nHis wife died on May 21, 1852 from malaria. Wright remarried to Harriet Burbridge on August 15, 1854, and the couple had one daughter Harriet, who died in October 1855.\n\nDuring his administration Indiana adopted its current constitution, and Wright was a driving force in its adoption in 1851 election. Wright was a delegate at the convention where he championed the cause of tax reform, primarily by defining what could and could not be taxed by the state property tax and the creation of a bureau to manage the state's penal and benevolence institutions. The constitution also authorized a major reorganization of the state school system, which was enacted in 1852 with Wright overseeing many parts of the reform. He personally oversaw the creation of school boards across the state and placed tax collectors to begin collecting the revenues for the boards. He also oversaw the creation of the State Board of Education and the State Agricultural Board. Wright was an avid supporter of agriculture and created the State Board of Agriculture to help encourage and assist farm growth in Indiana. Among its early achievements, the first Indiana State Fair was organized in 1851.\n\nWright became an outspoken \"anti-banker\" primarily because of the popularity of the position, and unlike most of his party which supported the creation of private banks and ending the monopoly of the state bank, he was opposed to banks in any form. The charter for the Bank of Indiana was set to expire in 1857, and Wright not only opposed an extension of the bank's charter, but the enactment of laws to legalize any new banks from operating in the state. In 1851, Wright vetoed the state's Free Banking Act, which revoked the Bank of Indiana's monopoly within the state and allowed new banks to open in Indiana. The bill was returned to the General Assembly who passed it and overrode his veto.\n\nHis primary opponent during his term remained Jesse D. Bright, who led his faction of the party against Wright on many different measures. Bright continued to antagonize Wright, and at the party's 1852 convention Bright was able to keep a large number of delegates from casting a vote in an attempt to bog down proceedings and keep Wright from being nominated to run again for Governor. Despite the attempt, Wright did win.\n\nHe ran for governor again in 1852 under the new constitution—with an extended four year gubernatorial term—defeating against Whig Nicholas McCarty, and Free Soiler John Cravens. Wright won again with 95,576 votes to McCarty's 73,641, and Craven's 3,308. There was a brief contention about the legality of his second term. The new state constitution banned governors from serving consecutive terms, but it was decided that because his original term occurred under the old constitution, he was still eligible to serve.\n\nIn 1855, another bill was passed to permit the Bank of Indiana to incorporate privately, and was also vetoed by Wright. The General Assembly again overrode his veto with a super-majority. Before the passage of law that permitted the bank to reincorporate, Wright personally delivered a speech to the House of Representatives in which he harangued the bank and accused them of \"corruption and fraud\", and alluded that the bank had bribed members of the General Assembly to pass the bill.\n\nWrights speech put him at odds with the Democrat-controlled legislature and severely hurt his relationship with them, including the lieutenant governor, who was a major supporter of the bill. Unhappy with the outcome of the situation, Wright decided to continue in his attempt to prevent the new bank from operating and launched lawsuits against the bill and the bank in the state courts. He demanded that the courts declare the law \"null and void\", but the circuit courts ruled against him. He appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court, who ultimately ruled in favor of the bank. With his legal options exhausted, Wright took the fight back to the legislature in 1857, giving a scathing speech accusing the body of many different violations of public good-will. He went on to say that \"the means and applications brought to bear to secure passage of charter, would if exposed, exhibit the nakedest exposition of fraud and corruption that ever disgraced the Legislature of this state\". The Senate responded by creating a commission to look into the accusations made by the Governor. Although only a few minor infractions were found, the committee agreed that the circumstances surrounding the passage of the bill were questionable and recommended the bank's charter be revoked, but no action was taken.\n\nIn 1854, the first cracks in the state Democratic Party began to show after the passage of the Kansas-Nebraska Act by Congress. Bright and his faction, a majority of the party, began forcing out anti-slavery members of the party leadership, using support of the act as a litmus test of party loyalty. By then the national debate over the possible break-up of the Union had begun. The Whig party was also on the brink of collapse, and a new coalition party of former Whigs, former Democrats, the anti-immigration Free Soil party, and the anti-slavery Liberty Party came together. The result was the so-called Know-Nothing Party and the first real challenge to Democratic control of the state in a generation. The 1854 mid-term election caused the Democrats to lose seats in the Senate, but still maintain control. The Democrats did, however, lose their majority in the house. The House was split with no party attaining majority, and the Whigs caucused with the Democrats to control the assembly. The effect was a virtual paralysis to the legislature, and Wright was unable to make any significant accomplishments during his last two years in office.\n\nThe Washington Monument was under construction during Wright's term. A strong supporter of the Union, Wright had a block sent for the monument with the inscription, \"Indiana knows no East, no West, no North, no South; nothing but Union\". The stone eventually found its way into the monument where it remains today. Wright left office popular with the public, but at odds with the leadership of his party. His position on banking had cost him much of their support, and he was especially denounced by Jesse D. Bright for his support of the Union over states-rights.\n\nIn an attempt to maintain party unity, Wright declined an offer to run against Bright for his seat in the Senate, and instead supported Bright in his reelection. In exchange, Bright offered to secure Wright a cabinet post with James Buchanan. The offer was false, and Bright instead sought to have Wright removed to a post as far from Indiana as possible. Wright accepted appointment by President Buchanan to serve as Envoy Extraordinary and Minister Plenipotentiary to Prussia from 1857 until 1861. While he was away, Bright had Wright and many others officially thrown out of the party. Wright was in Germany when the American Civil War began, and he quickly returned home, arriving in Indianapolis on September 7, 1861, and openly supported the Union cause.\n\nIn 1861, a letter was intercepted addressed to \"His Excellency, the President of the Confederate States of America\", and was from Senator Bright, offering advice on procuring weapons. The Senate moved swiftly to expel Bright, and exiled him from the country on charges of disloyalty. Governor Oliver P. Morton seized Bright's Indiana estate for use a military post, and Bright was left ruined and impoverished. Wright was appointed to serve as senator in his place from February 24, 1862 until his replacement was elected and took the seat on January 14, 1863.\n\nHe remarried again in 1863 to Caroline Rockwell who returned with him to Germany after Abraham Lincoln reappointed Wright to serve as the Ambassador to Prussia. Wright returned to Berlin in 1863 and remained there until his death on May 11, 1867. His body was returned to the United States and he was buried in New York City. The Wright Quadrangle student housing dorm at Indiana University was named after Joseph A. Wright.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1859716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859716", "title": "Gnostic Apocalypse of Peter", "text": "Gnostic Apocalypse of Peter\n\nThe Gnostic Apocalypse of Peter is a text found amongst the Nag Hammadi library, and part of the New Testament apocrypha. Like the vast majority of texts in the Nag Hammadi collection, it is heavily Gnostic. It was probably written around 100-200 AD. Since the only known copy is written in Coptic, it is also known as the \"Coptic Apocalypse of Peter\".\n\nThe text takes Gnostic interpretations of the crucifixion to the extreme, picturing Jesus as laughing and warning against people who \"cleave to the name of a dead man, thinking they shall become pure\". Like some of the rarer Gnostic writings, this one also doubts the established Crucifixion story which places Jesus on the cross. Instead, according to this text, there was a substitute:\nOne interesting passage, about Jesus upbraiding Peter for lack of focus in his meditation, \"as he was about to reprove you three times in this night,\" is the final line of the first paragraph. This curious inverse parallel of the canonical denial of Jesus by Peter story in all four canonical Gospels raises the question of provenance for both this text and the canon\nIt is unclear whether this text advocates an adoptionist or docetist Christology, but based on its literary parallels with the Second Treatise of the Great Seth, it may well subscribe to the latter.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1859732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859732", "title": "List of Brazilian diplomats", "text": "List of Brazilian diplomats\n\nThis is a list of Brazilian diplomats.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859733", "title": "Phool Aur Kaante", "text": "Phool Aur Kaante\n\nPhool Aur Kaante ( Flowers and thorns) is a 1991 Indian Hindi-language action romance film released in 1991. It stars Ajay Devgn, Madhoo, Aruna Irani, Jagdeep and Amrish Puri among others. The film marked the debut of Ajay Devgan, son of stunt and action choreographer Veeru Devgan, and Madhoo, niece of actress Hema Malini. The film was a superhit and won Ajay Devgn, the Filmfare Award for Best Male Debut for 1991. This film was remade in Telugu as \"Varasudu\". The film is loosely based on the Malayalam film Parampara directed by Sibi Malayil where Mammootty plays dual roles as Johnny, the protagonist and Lawrence, his father.\n\n\"Phool Aur Kaante\" was noted for its soundtrack and action sequences. Ajay Devgn's entry in the film became very popular where he appeared standing, balancing on two moving motorcycles. Similar stunts have been repeated in a number of films since.\n\nNageshwar alias \"Don\" (Amrish Puri) heads a vast criminal empire. He has an only son, Ajay (Ajay Devgn), who is completely familiar with his dad and his business. So is Ajay's wife, Pooja (Madhoo), who would like to put an end to all these criminal activities. When Nageshwar starts showing signs of ageing, he decides that it is now time for Ajay to take over from him. Ajay does so, however, a number of Nageshwar's associates are unhappy, embittered, and critical of this choice, and as a result, they, under the leadership of Shankar Dhanraj kidnap Ajay's baby son, Gopal. Will Nageshwar negotiate his grandson's release, or will his grandson be another sacrifice of his \"empire\"? How will Ajay and his wife react to this?\n\n\nAccording to an interview with Kuku Kohli, Akshay Kumar was selected before Ajay Devgn for the main protagonist of the film.\n\nThe soundtrack of \"Phool Aur Kaante\" was composed by the music duo Nadeem Shravan. The lyrics were written by Sameer and Rani Malik. The album was a superhit and the songs \"Tumse Milne Ko Dil Karta Hai\", \"Dheere Dheere Pyar Ko Badhana Hai\", \"Maine Pyar Tumhi Se Kiya Hai\" (inspired by Pakistani Film Song \"Mujhe Dekh Ke Been Bajain\" sung by Musarrat Nazir Composed by M.Ashraf) were very popular. Singers Kumar Sanu, Anuradha Paudwal, Udit Narayan, Alka Yagnik and Alisha Chinai rendered their voices in this album.\n"}
{"id": "1859742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859742", "title": "The Gunfighters", "text": "The Gunfighters\n\nThe Gunfighters is the seventh serial of the third season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 30 April to 21 May 1966.\n\nThe serial is set in and around the town of Tombstone, Arizona in the Wild West. In the serial, the time traveller the First Doctor (William Hartnell) and his travelling companions Steven Taylor (Peter Purves) and Dodo Chaplet (Jackie Lane) get themselves involved with the events leading up to the Gunfight at the O.K. Corral.\n\nIn the frontier town of Tombstone, Arizona, the troublesome Clanton brothers, Ike, Phineas and Billy, are in search of Doc Holliday to settle an old score over the death of another brother called Reuben. They meet up with their hired hand Seth Harper at the Last Chance Saloon. He knows what Holliday looks like and describes his coat and demeanour. This is overheard by bar singer Kate, who lets her paramour Holliday know he is in danger.\n\nThe TARDIS has arrived in a nearby stable, with the First Doctor in agony from toothache. He and his companions Steven and Dodo, dressed as cowboys, encounter local marshal Wyatt Earp, who offers them his protection and warns them to keep his counsel. The Doctor finds the dentist – Holliday himself - while Dodo and Steven book rooms at the hotel. There they are mocked by the Clantons, who suspect the Doctor they refer to is Holliday himself. Seth Harper is sent to the dentist's surgery and invites the Doctor, tooth removed, to the hotel in five minutes to meet his friends. Holliday is initially happy to let him be shot in his place, allowing the real Doc to disappear, but Kate intervenes to ensure the Doctor survives. This buys some time until Holliday relents and hides in an upstairs chamber of the hotel, firing his gun at appropriate moments to con the Clantons into thinking the Doctor is indeed Holliday the sharpshooter. Soon afterward Wyatt Earp and Sheriff Bat Masterson arrive and break up the fracas, taking the Doctor into custody for his own protection.\nSteven now becomes embroiled in a plot to smuggle the Doctor a gun to help free him from the jailhouse, but the Doctor refuses to be armed. Steven is then confronted by a rabble wound up by the Clantons, who are intent on lynching him as an associate of Holliday. Earp and Masterson defuse the situation and take Phin Clanton into custody to ensure the co-operation of his brothers. The Doctor and Steven are freed and told to leave town as soon as possible.\n\nDodo has fallen in with Kate and Doc, who both plan to leave town and take her with them. When Seth Harper stumbles across their escape plans, Holliday kills him, and the trio depart. Harper's role as aide to the Clantons is soon replaced by a new arrival, Johnny Ringo, who shoots local barman Charlie by way of an introduction to the town of Tombstone. The Doctor and Steven return to the Last Chance Saloon in search of Dodo and encounter the dangerous Ringo.\n\nWyatt Earp's brothers Warren and Virgil have meanwhile arrived at Tombstone to help him enforce the law. The Doctor tells them that Ringo is in town. The other Clanton brothers visit the jail to free Phin, killing Warren Earp in the process.\n\nMeanwhile, Steven heads out of town to look for Dodo with Ringo in town in search of Holliday. Steven and Kate are taken by Ringo to the Clanton ranch where the Clantons recamp and tell their father, Pa Clanton, that they have killed an Earp. Wyatt Earp swears vengeance and starts to build a posse of lawmen to deal with the Clantons once and for all. Doc Holliday returns to Tombstone with Dodo, and offers his services to his old friend Earp too. Attempts by the Doctor to defuse the situation amount to little: there will be a gunfight at the O.K. Corral. On the one side are the three Clanton brothers and Johnny Ringo; on the other, the two Earps and Doc Holliday. At the end of the gunfight Ringo and the three Clantons are shot dead. Shortly thereafter, the Doctor, Steven and Dodo slip away in the TARDIS.\n\nThey arrive on a strange planet, and decide to explore. As they leave, a strange man is seen approaching the TARDIS on the scanner.\n\nThe working title for this story was \"The Gunslingers\". This was the last serial of the classic series to have individual episode titles. From \"The Savages\" on, each serial had an overall title divided into numbered parts or episodes. The caption at the end of \"The OK Corral\" reads \"Next Episode: Dr. Who and the Savages\".\n\nDalek voice actor David Graham played Charlie the barman. He later played Kerensky in \"City of Death\" (1979). Doc Holliday was played by Anthony Jacobs, whose son Matthew visited the set during production of the serial. Thirty years later, Matthew Jacobs wrote the script for the 1996 \"Doctor Who\" television movie.\n\nLaurence Payne later played Morix in \"The Leisure Hive\" (1980) and Dastari in \"The Two Doctors\" (1985). Lynda Baron would later appear in the serial \"Enlightenment\" (1983), in the role of Captain Wrack, and as Val in the 2011 episode \"Closing Time\".\n\nRichard Beale, who played Bat Masterson, had previously provided the voice of a disembodied Refusian in \"The Ark\" (1966).\n\nThis story is notable for being the first \"Doctor Who\" episodes to contain musical narration, in the form of the \"Ballad of the Last Chance Saloon\". It was sung by Lynda Baron and written by Tristram Cary. The ballad itself is included as an extra on the CD soundtrack release. The notion of commissioning original songs for \"Doctor Who\" would resume when the series was revived in 2005, beginning with \"Song for Ten\" in \"The Christmas Invasion\".\n\nA common myth is that this story has the lowest ratings of any \"Doctor Who\" story. This myth likely stems from a misunderstanding of the difference between audience share and Audience Appreciation scores. The former indicates the size of the viewing audience, and the latter is based on a survey gauging the viewers' opinions of the programme. In fact, the audience size for the serial ranged from 6.5 million viewers for the first episode to 5.7 million for the last. However, the Audience Appreciation scores for the last three episodes equalled or went below the lowest scores for \"Doctor Who\", with the very last episode, \"The O.K. Corral\", having a score of 30%, the lowest ever to date.\n\nThat said, the story did post ratings that were disappointing by a number of different measures. \"The Gunfighters\" represented a significant decrease over the previous serial, \"The Celestial Toymaker\", which had ranged from 7.8 to 9.4 million viewers. Each episode of \"The Gunfighters\" was also significantly lower than for the first 18 weeks of Season 3, wherein the lowest-rated week—at 7.9 million viewers—belonged to the episode \"The Feast of Steven\" from \"The Daleks' Master Plan\". Each episode of the serial was also beaten by the serials which were respectively broadcast in similar April–May slots in 1965 (\"The Space Museum\") and in 1964 (\"The Keys of Marinus\").\n\nWhile not the lowest-rated \"Doctor Who\" story of all time, or even the lowest-rated Hartnell story, \"The Gunfighters\" did open a sustained period of significantly lower ratings for the program that lasted almost the entirety of the remainder of the First Doctor's era. Beginning with \"The O.K. Corral\" — the very same episode that received the lowest Audience Appreciation figures of any \"Doctor Who\" episode — no Hartnell episode topped 6 million viewers until Episode 2 of his final story, \"The Tenth Planet\".\n\nContemporary viewers were unimpressed by the story; the BBC's Audience Research Report on the final episode noted several negative reactions, including: \"has deteriorated from pure science-fiction into third-rate story telling\", \"The story was hackneyed, ridiculous and dull\", \"A weak and puerile plot\", and \"The script, even for a children's programme, was absolute rubbish\".\n\nReviewing the serial in 2009, Mark Braxton of \"Radio Times\" gave \"The Gunfighters\" a mixed review, explaining that it could divide opinion. While he praised the set design, he criticised \"The Ballad of the Last Chance Saloon\", Steven and Dodo's costumes, and the \"American\" accents. Overall, he felt that the narrative could use something else, like a science fiction element or a philosophical discussion from the Doctor. DVD Talk's John Sinnott gave the serial two and a half out of five stars, describing it as \"decent\" with \"a lot going for it\" that was marred by Purves' overracting, the accents, and especially \"The Ballad of the Last Chance Saloon\". More positively, IGN reviewer Arnold T Blumburg rated the serial 7 out of 10, praising Hartnell and the production values, as well as the high energy and enthusiasm. While he also derided the ballad, he wrote that \"the accents really aren't all that bad\". Neela Debnath of \"The Independent\" stated that younger viewers would enjoy it as an adventure, while older audiences would appreciate the satire. Paul Cornell, Martin Day and Keith Topping described the serial as \"a comic masterpiece, winning one over with its sheer charm.\"\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Donald Cotton, was published by Target Books in July 1985. It is narrated in first person by Doc Holliday (a framing scene introduces him on his deathbed) and makes a major change in the character of Johnny Ringo by depicting him as a student of the classics. An unabridged reading of the novelisation, read by Shane Rimmer, was released in February 2013.\n\nThis serial was released on VHS in a box-set containing the final three complete Hartnell-era serials to be released in this format (The Sensorites and The Time Meddler) in November 2002. In 2007, it was released on CD, with linking narration, the entire \"Ballad of the Last Chance Saloon\", and a bonus interview from Peter Purves. It was released on DVD in a box set named \"Earth Story\" along with \"The Awakening\" on 20 June 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859743", "title": "Eleutheropolis", "text": "Eleutheropolis\n\nEleutheropolis (Greek, Ελευθερόπολις, \"Free City\") was a Roman and Byzantine city in Syria Palaestina, some 53 km southwest of Jerusalem. Its remains still straddle the ancient road connecting Jerusalem to Gaza and are now located within the Beit Guvrin National Park.\n\nThe city was originally known in Aramaic as Beth Gabra, which translates as the \"house of strong men\". Ptolemy referred to it as Baitogabra, and in the Talmud it was known as Beit Guvrin. According to historical geographer A. Schlatter, the name \"Betaris\" mentioned by Josephus should either be identified with \"Bittir\", or else the \"T\" amended to Gamma so as to read \"Begabrin\".The name Eleutheropolis was given to the city by the Romans at the beginning of the third century. The former city of Eleutheropolis was rebuilt by the Crusaders as Bethgibelin or Gibelin. The medieval city was known in Arabic as Beit Jibrin or Jubrin (بيت جبرين), meaning \"house of the powerful\" and reflecting its original Aramaic name.\n\nIn 68 CE, during the Jewish War, Vespasian slaughtered or enslaved the inhabitants of \"Betaris\". According to Josephus: \"When he had seized upon two villages, which were in the very midst of Idumea, Betaris, and Caphartobas, he slew above ten thousand of the people, and carried into captivity above a thousand, and drove away the rest of the multitude, and placed no small part of his own forces in them, who overran and laid waste the whole mountainous country.\"\nThe settlement was demolished once again during the Bar Kokhba revolt, 132–135 CE.\n\nIn the year 200, Roman Emperor Septimius Severus gave it the status of a city under a new Greek name, \"Eleutheropolis\", meaning \"City of the Free\", and its inhabitants were given the \"ius italicum\". Coins minted by Septimius Severus bear the date January 1, 200, commemorating its founding and the title of \"polis\".\n\nEleutheropolis became one of the most important cities in Roman Palestine. Seven routes met at Eleutheropolis, and Eusebius, in his \"Onomasticon\", uses the Roman milestones indicating the city as a central point from which the distances of other towns were measured.\nEleutheropolis was a \"City of Excellence\" in the fourth century and a Christian bishopric with the largest territory in Palaestina: its first known bishop is Macrinus, who attended the Council of Nicaea in 325.\n\nEpiphanius of Salamis, the bishop of Salamis in Cyprus, was born at Eleutheropolis; at Ad nearby he established a monastery which is often mentioned in the polemics of Jerome with Rufinus and John, Bishop of Jerusalem.\n\nThe Madaba Map (dated 542-570 CE) shows Eleutheropolis as a walled city with three towers, a curving street with a colonnade in the central part and an important basilica. In the centre is a building with a yellowish-white dome on four columns. Eleutheropolis was last mentioned in the ancient sources by the near contemporary itinerarium of the Piacenza Pilgrim, about 570.\n\nAt Eleutheropolis, according to the hagiographies, fifty soldiers of the garrison of Gaza, who had refused to deny Christ were beheaded in 638: later a church was built in their honor. In 796, the city was again destroyed in civil warfare.\n\nIn 1838, American scholar Edward Robinson identified Bayt Jibrin as the site of ancient Eleutheropolis. Eleutheropolis remains a titular see in the Roman Catholic Church.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859756", "title": "Trade creation", "text": "Trade creation\n\nTrade creation is an economic term related to international economics in which trade flows are redirected due to the formation of a free trade area or a customs union. The issue was firstly brought into discussion by Jacob Viner (1950), together with the trade diversion effect.\n\nIn the former case after the formation of economic union, the cost of the goods considered is decreased, leading to an increase of efficiency of economic integration. Hence, trade creation's essence is in elimination of customs tariffs on inner border of unifying states (usually already trading with each other), causing further decrease of price of the goods, while there may be a case of new trade flow creation of the goods between the states decided to economically integrate.\n\nThe opposite takes place in case of trade diversion, when the trade flow is diverted from actually cost-efficient partner state to less efficient one – but which became a member of economic union and made its goods cheaper within a union, but higher compared to the rest of the world.\nIn practice, both trade creation and diversion effects take place due to formation of economic union. Efficiency of economic integration of specific union right now is assessed as a final outcome between trade creation and diversion effects: it is cost-effective in case of prevailing of the trade creation effects, and vice versa.\n\nWhen a customs union is formed, the member nations establish a free trade area amongst themselves and a common external tariff on non-member nations. As a result, the member nations establish greater trading ties between themselves now that protectionist barriers such as tariffs, import quotas, non-tariff barriers and subsidies have been eliminated. The result is an increase in trade among member nations in the good or service of each nation's comparative advantage. In other words, increase in trade causes greater revenues, (more profitable).\n\nThe creation of trade is important to the nation entering the customs union in that increased specialization may hurt other industries. Arguments for protectionism, such as the infant industry argument, national defense, outsourcing, and issues with health and safety regulations are brought to mind. However, customs unions are typically formed with friendly nations, eliminating the national defense argument.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859765", "title": "Pratap Singh Prabhakar", "text": "Pratap Singh Prabhakar\n\nPratap Singh Prabhakar, a Kachwaha Rajput, was the founder king of Alwar State princely state in 1770 CE with its capital at Alwar city during the British Raj in India.\n\nPratap Singh who was earlier a jagirdar of \"Dhai Gaon\" (two and half villages) near Machari in Alwar. His successor \"Bakhtawar Singh Kachwaha\" was defeated when he ventured an armed incursion into neighbouring Jaipur State (ruled by their Kachwaha seniors, erstwhile overlord of his predecessor) and consequent treaty mediated by East India Company prohibited him from political intercourse with other states without the consent of colonial British. Pratap's descendant and the last reigning ruler, H.H. Maharaja Sir Tej Singh Prabhakar Bahadur, signed the accession to the Indian Union on 7 April 1949.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859768", "title": "Lock-in amplifier", "text": "Lock-in amplifier\n\n]\n\nA lock-in amplifier is a type of amplifier that can extract a signal with a known carrier wave from an extremely noisy environment. Depending on the dynamic reserve of the instrument, signals up to 1 million times smaller than noise components, potentially fairly close by in frequency, can still be reliably detected. It is essentially a homodyne detector followed by low-pass filter that is often adjustable in cut-off frequency and filter order. Whereas traditional lock-in amplifiers use analog frequency mixers and RC filters for the demodulation, state-of-the-art instruments have both steps implemented by fast digital signal processing, for example, on an FPGA. Usually sine and cosine demodulation is performed simultaneously, which is sometimes also referred to as dual-phase demodulation. This allows the extraction of the in-phase and the quadrature component that can then be transferred into polar coordinates, i.e. amplitude and phase, or further processed as real and imaginary part of a complex number (e.g. for complex FFT analysis).\n\nThe device is often used to measure phase shift, even when the signals are large, have a high signal-to-noise ratio and do not need further improvement.\n\nRecovering signals at low signal-to-noise ratios requires a strong, clean reference signal with the same frequency as the received signal. This is not the case in many experiments, so the instrument can recover signals buried in the noise only in a limited set of circumstances.\n\nThe lock-in amplifier is commonly believed to have been invented by Princeton University physicist Robert H. Dicke who founded the company Princeton Applied Research (PAR) to market the product. However, in an interview with Martin Harwit, Dicke claims that even though he is often credited with the invention of the device, he believes that he read about it in a review of scientific equipment written by Walter C. Michels, a professor at Bryn Mawr College. This could have been a 1941 article by Michels and Curtis, which in turn cites a 1934 article by C. R. Cosens, while another timeless article was written by C. A. Stutt in 1949.\n\nThe operation of a lock-in amplifier relies on the orthogonality of sinusoidal functions. Specifically, when a sinusoidal function of frequency \"f\" is multiplied by another sinusoidal function of frequency \"f\" not equal to \"f\" and integrated over a time much longer than the period of the two functions, the result is zero. Instead, when \"f\" is equal to \"f\" and the two functions are in phase, the average value is equal to half of the product of the amplitudes.\n\nIn essence, a lock-in amplifier takes the input signal, multiplies it by the reference signal (either provided from the internal oscillator or an external source), and integrates it over a specified time, usually on the order of milliseconds to a few seconds. The resulting signal is a DC signal, where the contribution from any signal that is not at the same frequency as the reference signal is attenuated close to zero. The out-of-phase component of the signal that has the same frequency as the reference signal is also attenuated (because sine functions are orthogonal to the cosine functions of the same frequency), making a lock-in a phase-sensitive detector.\n\nFor a sine reference signal and an input waveform formula_1, the DC output signal formula_2 can be calculated for an analog lock-in amplifier as\n\nwhere \"φ\" is a phase that can be set on the lock-in (set to zero by default).\n\nIf the averaging time \"T\" is large enough (e.g. much larger than the signal period) to suppress all unwanted parts like noise and the variations at twice the reference frequency, the output is \nwhere formula_5 is the signal amplitude at the reference frequency, and formula_6 is the phase difference between the signal and reference.\n\nMany applications of the lock-in amplifier only require recovering the signal amplitude rather than relative phase to the reference signal. For a simple so called single-phase lock-in-amplifier the phase difference is adjusted (usually manually) to zero to get the full signal.\n\nMore advanced, so called two-phase lock-in-amplifiers have a second detector, doing the same calculation as before, but with an additional 90° phase shift. Thus one has two outputs: formula_7 is called the \"in-phase\" component, and formula_8 the \"quadrature\" component. These two quantities represent the signal as a vector relative to the lock-in reference oscillator. By computing the magnitude (\"R\") of the signal vector, the phase dependency is removed:\n\nThe phase can be calculated from\n\nThe majority of today's lock-in amplifiers are based on high-performance digital signal processing (DSP). Over the last 20 years, digital lock-in amplifiers have been replacing analog models across the entire frequency range, allowing users to perform measurements up to a frequency of 600 MHz. Initial problems of the first digital lock-in amplifiers, e.g. the presence of digital clock noise on the input connectors, could be completely eliminated by use of improved electronic components and better instrument design. Today's digital lock-in amplifiers outperform analog models in all relevant performance parameters, such as frequency range, input noise, stability and dynamic reserve. In addition to better performance, digital lock-in amplifiers can include multiple demodulators, which allows analyzing a signal with different filter settings or at multiple different frequencies simultaneously. Moreover, experimental data can be analyzed with additional tools such as an oscilloscope, FFT spectrum analyzers, boxcar averager or used to provide feedback by using internal PID controllers. Some models of the digital lock-in amplifiers are computer-controlled and feature a graphical user interface (can be a platform-independent browser user interface) and a choice of programming interfaces.\n\nSignal recovery takes advantage of the fact that noise is often spread over a much wider range of frequencies than the signal. In the simplest case of white noise, even if the root mean square of noise is 10 times as large as the signal to be recovered, if the bandwidth of the measurement instrument can be reduced by a factor much greater than 10 around the signal frequency, then the equipment can be relatively insensitive to the noise. In a typical 100 MHz bandwidth (e.g. an oscilloscope), a bandpass filter with width much narrower than 100 Hz would accomplish this. The averaging time of the lock-in amplifier determines the bandwidth and allows very narrow filters, less than 1 Hz if needed. However, this comes at the price of a slow response to changes in the signal.\n\nIn summary, even when noise and signal are indistinguishable in the time domain, if the signal has a definite frequency band and there is no large noise peak within that band, noise and signal can be separated sufficiently in the frequency domain.\n\nIf the signal is either slowly varying or otherwise constant (essentially a DC signal), then 1/\"f\" noise typically overwhelms the signal. It may then be necessary to use external means to modulate the signal. For example, when detecting a small light signal against a bright background, the signal can be modulated either by a chopper wheel, acousto-optical modulator, photoelastic modulator at a large enough frequency so that 1/\"f\" noise drops off significantly, and the lock-in amplifier is referenced to the operating frequency of the modulator. In the case of an atomic-force microscope, to achieve nanometer and piconewton resolution, the cantilever position is modulated at a high frequency, to which the lock-in amplifier is again referenced.\n\nWhen the lock-in technique is applied, care must be taken to calibrate the signal, because lock-in amplifiers generally detect only the root-mean-square signal of the operating frequency. For a sinusoidal modulation, this would introduce a factor of formula_11 between the lock-in amplifier output and the peak amplitude of the signal, and a different factor for non-sinusoidal modulation.\n\nIn the case of nonlinear systems, higher harmonics of the modulation frequency appear. A simple example is the light of a conventional light bulb being modulated at twice the line frequency. Some lock-in amplifiers also allow separate measurements of these higher harmonics.\n\nFurthermore, the response width (effective bandwidth) of detected signal depends on the amplitude of the modulation. Generally, linewidth/modulation function has a monotonically increasing, non-linear behavior.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859771", "title": "New Maryland", "text": "New Maryland\n\nNew Maryland may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1859772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859772", "title": "Digital Songs", "text": "Digital Songs\n\nThe Digital Songs or Digital Song Sales chart (previously named Hot Digital Songs) ranks the best-selling digital songs in the United States, as compiled by Nielsen SoundScan and published by \"Billboard\" magazine. Although it originally started tracking song sales the week of October 30, 2004, it officially debuted in the issue dated January 22, 2005, and merged all versions of a song sold from digital music distributors. Its data was incorporated in the Hot 100 three weeks later. Since October 2004, digital sales have been incorporated into many of \"Billboard\"s music singles charts. The decision was based on the dramatic increase of the digital market while commercial single sales in a physical format were becoming negligible.\n\nThe first number one song on the Digital Songs chart was \"Just Lose It\" by Eminem.\n\nThe chart's current number one as of the issue dated May 30, 2020 is \"Savage\" by Megan Thee Stallion featuring Beyoncé.\n\nSource: \n\n\n\nSource: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859777", "title": "Matt Treanor", "text": "Matt Treanor\n\nMatthew Aaron Treanor (born March 3, 1976) is an American former professional baseball catcher in Major League Baseball (MLB). He played for the Florida Marlins, Detroit Tigers, Texas Rangers, Kansas City Royals, and Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nTreanor attended Mater Dei High School in Santa Ana, California and was a standout baseball player. As a senior, he was a second-team All-America pick and was named to the all-tournament team at the Upper Deck high school baseball tournament.\n\nTreanor was drafted by the Kansas City Royals as a high school player in 1994. He played with the Gulf Coast Royals in 1994, the Springfield Sultans in 1995, the Lansing Lugnuts in 1996 and the Wilmington Blue Rocks in 1997.\n\nHe was traded to the Florida Marlins in for Matt Whisenant. Treanor spent 10 years in the minor leagues–7 in Single-A—before finally making his major league debut on June 2, against the Cincinnati Reds when he went 1 for 3 with a run scored. In the highlight of his season, Treanor recorded his first RBI on a walk-off single against the Chicago White Sox on June 17.\n\nHe played with the Marlins' Triple-A affiliate, the Calgary Cannons then the Albuquerque Isotopes, being called up to the majors twice in 2004. In , Treanor played his first full season with the Marlins, as a backup to starting catcher Paul Lo Duca. He showed off his defensive prowess on April 15 against the Washington Nationals, when he threw out all three base runners who attempted to steal. Treanor hit his first Major League home run against Daniel Cabrera of the Baltimore Orioles on June 20, . In 2006, he led NL catchers in caught stealing percentage, at 47.1%.\n\nOn December 10, , Treanor was released by the Florida Marlins in order to make room on the team's 40-man roster for the Rule 5 draft on December 11, 2008.\n\nOn December 18, 2008, Treanor signed with the Detroit Tigers. In April 2009, he suffered from a bone spur on his right hip and was placed on the disabled list for the remainder of the season. He was released from the Tigers at the conclusion of the 2009 season and granted free agency. Treanor only played in four games with Detroit.\n\nOn December 18, 2009, Treanor signed a minor league contract with the Milwaukee Brewers with an invitation to spring training, however on March 22 he was traded to the Texas Rangers in exchange for Ray Olmedo. On April 27, Treanor doubled and homered against the White Sox, a game in which he had his first extra base hits with the Rangers. On June 15, Treanor returned to Florida to face his former team for the first time in interleague play, and hit a go-ahead two-RBI triple in the ninth inning and lifted the Rangers to a 3–2 win. On July 23, Treanor was injured trying to beat a throw to first base when he tripped over Angels' first baseman Kevin Frandsen.\n\nOn March 28, 2011, the Rangers traded Treanor to the Kansas City Royals for cash considerations. He was the 2011 Opening Day catcher for the Royals. On April 3, he hit a three-run walk-off homer in the 13th inning to beat the Anaheim Angels 12–9. On July 31, he was placed on the 7-day disabled list with a concussion after a collision with Matt LaPorta of the Cleveland Indians.\n\nOn August 31, 2011, the Royals traded Treanor to the Texas Rangers for cash considerations. In 2011, he batted .214 with 3 home runs, between the two teams.\n\nOn November 15, 2011, Treanor signed a one-year contract with the Los Angeles Dodgers. Serving as the backup to Dodgers catcher A.J. Ellis, he spot-started throughout the season. On July 22, in New York, Treanor hit a two-run single in the top of the 12th inning, sparking a 5-run rally to beat the New York Mets 8-3. He played in 36 games in 2012 for the Dodgers, hitting .175. On October 29, the Dodgers elected to decline Treanor's club option for 2013 worth $950K, instead paying him the $150K buyout.\n\nOn December 17, 2013, Treanor signed a minor league deal, with an invitation to spring training, with the Cleveland Indians. He retired on May 8, 2014.\n\nIn November 2003, Treanor met beach volleyball star Misty May at a sports therapy facility in California. They became engaged in March 2004 and married that November. They have three children: daughter Malia Barbara, born on June 3, 2014, as well as twins, daughters Mele Elizarin and Mia Kanoelani, born in November 2017.\n"}
{"id": "1859778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859778", "title": "Philip Davies", "text": "Philip Davies\n\nPhilip Andrew Davies (born 5 January 1972) is a British Conservative Party politician and Member of Parliament (MP) for Shipley in West Yorkshire.\n\nFirst elected at the 2005 general election, he is the most rebellious serving Conservative MP, having voted against the Tory whip over 250 times in the course of his parliamentary career, and he has been criticised for \"talking out\" Parliamentary Bills not supported by the government and by doing so \"kill off legislation he doesn't like\".\n\nDavies is known for campaigns against political correctness and feminism and is a campaigner for the men's rights movement. He played a lead role in securing the first International Men's Day debate in Parliament in 2015; the debate has since taken place annually.\n\nDavies is on the governing council of The Freedom Association pressure group, and is an organiser for the TaxPayers' Alliance. Davies has regularly been criticised by other politicians and prominent public figures for comments he has made on gender equality and women, homosexuality, ethnic minorities and the disabled. He has stated that the disabled should have the option of working for less than the minimum wage. Davies has said that white, male ministers risk being \"hoofed out\" of the government to make way for women or minority ethnic MPs.\n\nDavies was born in Doncaster; his father is Peter Davies, a former elected Mayor of Doncaster. He was educated at the Old Swinford Hospital school, Stourbridge, and at Huddersfield Polytechnic (which became Huddersfield University in his third year). He was awarded a 2:1 BA Hons degree in history and political studies in 1993. Originally he wanted to be a journalist, but in a January 2017 \"Spectator\" interview he said, \"It was my ambition in life but I just realised I was too shy. You’ve got to have a confidence that I think I probably never had\".\n\nFollowing his graduation, Davies worked at supermarket business Asda from September 1993 to May 2005, first as a customer services manager and later as a marketing manager. He has also worked at Marilyn Davies Bookmakers and Mark Jarvis Bookmakers.\n\nHe joined the Conservative Party in 1988.\n\nDavies unsuccessfully contested the parliamentary seat of Colne Valley at the 2001 general election and was defeated by the sitting Labour MP Kali Mountford by 4,639 votes.\n\nIn the 2005 UK general election, he was elected as an MP for the seat of Shipley with a majority of 422 votes, defeating the Labour MP and Parliamentary Under Secretary of State at the Department for Constitutional Affairs Chris Leslie. He received donations toward his successful campaign from Bearwood Corporate Services, a company set up by non-domicile Lord Ashcroft to give out donations to marginal seats such as Davies'.\n\nDavies made his maiden speech on 7 June 2005. He recalled Titus Salt and then mentioned the UNESCO World Heritage Site in Saltaire. He also announced that he wanted to remain a backbencher and not to be a shadow spokesman or a minister, and that he wanted to feel able to speak for his constituents. Davies held his seat with an increased majority of 9,944 votes in the 2010 general election, and held his seat for a second time with a slightly reduced majority of 9,624 in the 2015 general election.\n\nHe was re-elected onto the executive committee of the 1922 Committee of backbench Conservative MPs in 2010 and is a member of the Culture, Media and Sport Select Committee. He has also become a member of the newly established backbench business committee and a member of the Speaker's Panel, chairing Westminster Hall debates. Davies is rated as one of the Conservatives' most rebellious MPs.\n\nOn 2 November 2012, Davies wrote to the Metropolitan Police requesting it to open a second investigation into ex-Labour MP Denis MacShane's expenses claims.\n\nIn January 2016, the Labour Party unsuccessfully proposed an amendment in Parliament that would have required private landlords to make their homes \"fit for human habitation\". According to Parliament's register of interests, Davies was one of 72 Conservative MPs who voted against the amendment who personally derived an income from renting out property. The Conservative Government had responded to the amendment that they believed homes should be fit for human habitation but did not want to pass the new law that would explicitly require it.\n\nDavies retained his seat at the 2017 snap election with a reduced majority of 4,681 votes, though also increasing his share of the vote by 1.45%, his highest ever share.\n\nDavies has been repeatedly criticised for his use of the filibuster to block legislation by talking at length, particularly when private members' bills under the Ten Minute Rule are debated. This happens on Fridays, when attendance is often poor because MPs have returned to their home constituencies, leaving these debates particularly susceptible to filibustering. The practice can be stopped if 100 MPs attend Parliament, and Davies has noted that if \"not even 100 MPs out of 650 showed up\" then it indicated a bill \"did not have full support\".\n\nWhen asked by a journalist whether his tactics were underhand, Davies said:\n\nIn October 2015, Davies spoke for 93 minutes, thereby successfully blocking a proposed bill that would have given free hospital parking to carers. He had pledged his support for carers four months earlier.\n\nIn November 2015, Davies gave the longest speech in a sequence by Conservative MPs that resulted in 'talking out' a bill backed by St. John Ambulance, the British Red Cross, and the British Heart Foundation to provide first-aid training to children. Davies argued that \"schools can already teach first aid if they want to. They should make the decision rather than have it forced on them by Whitehall.\"\n\nIn February 2013, Davies was investigated by the Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards following a complaint claiming he received more than £10,000 in benefits from companies with links to the gambling industry which he did not fully declare in the register of members' interests during a year-long investigation into the betting industry. The commissioner required Davies to apologise for breaching the parliamentary code after not declaring an interest in a debate and at the Culture, Media and Sport Committee, namely £870 of hospitality from the bookmaker Ladbrokes, rather than the larger amount complained about. Davies told Parliament the omission was not \"due to a desire to conceal it ... but to an oversight\" and he was \"very grateful to [the rest of the committee] for accepting that mine had been a genuine error\".\n\nIn December 2016, Davies was cleared of wrongdoing over claims alleging \"extremely favourable\" treatment he had received from Ladbrokes – the lifting of restrictions on his betting account. The investigation was dropped on the basis of \"insufficient evidence\" that Davies had broken the rules and the complainant had refused to drop his anonymity out of a fear of losing his job. Davies defended hospitality and his meetings with the racing industry, stating: \"I am the elected chairman of the All Party Parliamentary Group for Betting and Gaming – and a former bookmaker – so of course I meet with bookmakers. It would be rather extraordinary if I didn't\".\n\nIn November 2018, Tracey Crouch resigned as sports minister since she believed Philip Davies successfully went above her and secured a delay to curbs on fixed odds betting terminals. Davies received hospitality worth £3,204.44 from betting companies and bookmakers including Ladbrokes, William Hill and SkyBet in the year to 2018.\n\nDavies is on the governing council of The Freedom Association pressure group, and is an organiser for the Taxpayers' Alliance. He has called for government to \"scrap the Human Rights Act for foreign nationals and chuck them out of the country\" and in 2016 expressed admiration for Donald Trump. Davies was criticised by a Liberal Democrat councillor as being \"disgracefully reactionary\" for his public comment that he wanted to see \"an increase in the prison population\".\n\nIn 2009, Davies called for the scrapping of the minimum wage in the UK.\n\nDavies has called for withdrawal from the European Union, starting the Better Off Out campaign, and campaigning at the Conservative Party Conference in 2005.\n\nThe eurosceptic UK Independence Party (UKIP) did not field a candidate against Davies at the 2010 general election and campaigned for his re-election after being identified as a \"committed eurosceptic\". In the event, Davies held his seat with an increased majority of just under 10,000 votes.\n\nDavies was the parliamentary spokesman for the inactive Campaign Against Political Correctness and was accused of wasting the Equality and Human Rights Commission's time by sending a stream of correspondence to its chair, Trevor Phillips, between 2008 and 2009. In this correspondence, he asked questions relating to race and sex discrimination such as: \"Is it offensive to black up or not, particularly if you are impersonating a black person?\" and \"Why it is so offensive to black up your face, as I have never understood this?\" Some commentators suggested that he was advocating 'blacking up'.\n\nDavies also asked whether it was racist for a policeman to refer to a BMW as \"black man's wheels\" and whether the Metropolitan Black Police Association breaches discrimination law by restricting its membership to black people. Peter Herbert, the chair of the Society of Black Lawyers, said: \"This correspondence seems a complete and utter waste of time... he shouldn't be using the Human Rights Commission as basically a source of legal advice\".\n\nA complaint from Davies was sent to the Equality and Human Rights Commission in January 2017 that the Jhalak Prize, a literary prize intended to increase the diversity of published authors, was discriminatory towards white writers. After investigating the issue, the EHRC rejected Davies' complaint the following April. A spokesman for the EHRC said the body had decided the prize did not break the Equality Act 2010. \"This award is the type of action which the Commission supports and recommends\", he said. Davies rejected \"positive discrimination\" and said he believed in \"true equality\".\n\nIn May 2018, Davies said that police stop and search numbers had reduced dramatically as a result of \"politically correct chatter\". He said that black people are \"more likely to be murderers\". Davies said the evidence showed the community much more likely to be stopped and searched and yet found to have done nothing wrong were white people.\n\nIn March 2007 he voted against the Equality Act (Sexual Orientation) Regulations 2007 which proposed to allow the Secretary of State to make regulations defining discrimination and harassment on grounds of sexual orientation, create criminal offences, and provide for exceptions. He also complained, while calling for a Parliamentary debate on \"political correctness\", about a school production of \"Romeo and Julian\" during LGBT History month. Commons Leader Harriet Harman described his remarks as \"cheap shots\".\n\nHe was called a \"troglodyte\" in 2009 by the Conservative MP John Bercow for his opposition to debating the Equality Bill, the effect of the recession on women and International Women's Day.\n\nIn 2013, Davies voted against same-sex marriage because the bill did not allow for opposite-sex civil partnerships. In an interview with the BBC Two programme \"Daily Politics\", Davies stated his reasoning for voting against it was \"You can have civil partnerships and marriage for gay people. You can only have marriage for heterosexuals. It's not equality.\"\n\nSpeaking in Parliament in October 2014, Davies said he believes parents and not schools should take responsibility for the sex education of children. Believing his constituents associate increased sex education with an increase in teenage pregnancies, he thought they would welcome its abandonment.\n\nOn 27 October 2015, he presented the case to the Backbench Business Committee for a parliamentary debate on men's issues such as: prostate and testicular cancer, less equality for men in child custody and lower performance in education compared to girls of the same age. In addition, he proposed parliamentary observance of International Men's Day. This led to a public disagreement with Labour MP Jess Phillips who laughed at his proposal. \"As the only woman on this committee, it seems like every day to me is International Men’s Day\", Phillips said in response to Davies during the meeting.\n\nThe committee originally rejected his case, but a debate in Westminster Hall on 19 November was eventually granted after Labour and Conservative colleagues gave their support. Davies said during the debate: \"The problem is virtually everything we do in this House and debate in this House seems to start with the premise that everything is biased against women and something must be done about it – never an appreciation that men’s issues can be just as important and that men can be just as badly treated in certain areas as women\". Maria Miller, Conservative chair of the Women and Equalities Select Committee responded to Davies: \"Women face discrimination on a daily basis, that’s not a myth. My honourable friend does not do his case much good at all when he tries to belittle that\". \"One of the most depressing things to happen recently was the introduction of the Select Committee on Women and Equalities\", he said during the debate; the select committee had been created earlier in the year.\n\nIn July 2016, Davies gave a speech on the justice gender gap at the International Conference of Men's Issues organised by Justice for Men and Boys. He said: \"I don’t believe there’s an issue between men and women. The problem is being stirred up by those who can be described as militant feminists and the politically correct males who pander to this nonsense\". Objecting to the lower number of men who win in custody cases with their former partners, he said: \"Many women use their children as a stick to beat the father with\". He rejected a suggestion that his appearance at a J4MB event meant that he subscribed to the party's viewpoint. He did not receive a fee for his participation in the event.\n\nIn response to Davies' comments at the July 2016 event, Jeremy Corbyn, the leader of the opposition, said that Davies' \"deeply sexist\" opinions showed that he had an \"utter contempt for women\". He called on Theresa May, the Conservative leader, to withdraw the party whip from Davies. The Labour peer Baroness Corston, a barrister who reviewed the issue of women in the justice system for the Home Office, told \"The Guardian\" that \"There is indisputable evidence that women are treated by the courts more harshly\" than men. Davies responded by providing figures from the Ministry of Justice collected by men's-rights lobby group \"Parity,\" which he argued suggest that the courts favour women when sentencing. He said that Corston is thus \"ill-informed or deliberately lying when she accuses me of lying\".\n\nAn International Men's Day debate, instigated by Davies, took place for the first time in the House of Commons on 17 November 2016. Davies rejected claims that it is a stunt and hoped it would become an annual event. In an article for \"The Times\" published on the same day, Davies wrote: \"The aims of International Men’s Day are laudable. They include promoting male role models, celebrating the contribution men make, focusing on men’s health and wellbeing as well as highlighting discrimination against men\".\n\nDavies was elected, unopposed, to the women and equalities select committee in December 2016. \"Philip Davies doesn’t even think that the Women’s and Equalities Committee should exist, yet he’s about to join it\", commented the Green Party MP Caroline Lucas, \"perhaps giving him a chance to rethink his views\".\n\nA few days later in December 2016, Davies talked for 78 minutes in an unsuccessful attempt to derail a Bill designed to bring Britain in line with the Istanbul Convention whose purported aim is to protect women against violence. He argued that the Bill was \"sexist against men\" because of its focus and ignored other victims which if recognised equally would have been \"true equality\". Thangam Debbonaire, speaking after him, had to cut her own speech short in order to make sure his filibustering did not succeed. The bill was, however, passed by 135 to 2. At the bill's third reading on 24 February 2017, Davies spoke for 91 minutes and proposed amendments (which were defeated), but was unsuccessful in blocking the Preventing and Combating Violence Against Women and Domestic Violence (Ratification of Convention) Bill, which was passed by 138 votes to 1, with Davies being the only MP to vote against. The government supported the bill.\n\nSophie Walker, the leader of the Women's Equality Party, stood against Davies in his Shipley constituency at the 2017 general election, but was defeated, with Davies noting that she lost her deposit. According to Walker, Davies \"is a sexist misogynist who puts his own ego ahead of his constituents\" and Walker wished to represent the people of Shipley \"rather than using parliament as a stage to play out attention-seeking performances\" which she believed was Davies's practice. In response, Davies said he had \"consistently asked\" his opponent \"to quote just one thing I have ever said which has asked for a woman to be treated less favourably than a man\".\n\nIn June 2018, Davies spoke for 148 minutes on the Mental Health Units (Use of Force) Bill, which had over 100 amendments tabled to it. It has been argued that Davies' lengthy speech had caused the blocking of passage of the upskirting bill, however due to it being listed as the eighth bill of the day to be debated, it was not likely to have been called for debate that day. Following a point of order on the matter the Speaker of the House of Commons stated that: \"It is important, however, in public debate to distinguish between fact and opinion, and simply as a matter of fact – incontrovertible fact – the Hon Gentlemen is in no way whatsoever responsible for the failure of the eighth bill to be debated.\"\n\nIn March 2019, Davies was one of 21 MPs who voted against LGBT inclusive sex and relationship education in English schools.\n\nDavies has said in Parliament that some disabled workers are, by definition, not as productive in their work as others and that the minimum wage may be a \"hindrance\" to some disabled jobseekers. Davies said: \"If they feel that for a short period of time, taking a lower rate of pay to help them get on their first rung of the jobs ladder is a good thing, I don't see why we should be standing in their way.\" Among others, Davies was criticised by Labour's Anne Begg and a member of his own parliamentary party, and the Conservative Party quickly distanced itself from his comments. Representatives from the mental illness charities Mind and Rethink Mental Illness called his suggestion \"preposterous\" and \"seriously misguided\". Davies' response was that the furore over his comments was \"left-wing hysteria\".\n\nAs part of his use of the filibuster technique, in October 2015, Davies led a sequence of speeches that resulted in a private members' bill exempting parking charges for hospital carers being 'talked out'. Davies spoke for 90 minutes to \"talk out\" the bill proposed by Labour MP Julie Cooper. He said he objected to the bill because he was concerned it would cause higher parking charges for disabled people and a reduction in revenue for hospitals. The comedian Russell Howard in his programme \"Good News\", called him an \"arsehole\", \"windbag\", \"wanker\" and a \"toad-faced hypocrite\" and accused the MP of filibustering. Davies complained on the grounds of \"inaccuracy\" and \"misrepresentation\" and the BBC was forced to publish in the Clarifications and Corrections section of the BBC website stating \"Davies did not personally use up all the time available for the debate and that almost three hours remained after he sat down\". Howard also misrepresented Davies' views on the disabled and the BBC stated \"that the programme did not fully represent his comments, which were, that it would be in the best interests of disabled people, and others, to be allowed to offer to work for less than the minimum wage, if the alternative were no employment at all\". The broadcaster also agreed not to air the episode again due to their misrepresentation of Davies' position. The BBC Trust later rejected an escalation of the complaint by Davies.\n\nIn 2017, further complaints were upheld on the issue of the BBC again misrepresenting Davies' position on employment of the disabled, with an article in March that year falsely claiming Davies \"had told Parliament that disabled people should work for less than minimum wage\". The piece was corrected to state: \"Mr Davies had said that people with disabilities should have the option of working for less than the minimum wage\".\n\nIn March 2010, Davies was criticised by the press, and religious organisations, for using Parliamentary rules to \"wreck\" the Debt Relief (Developing Countries) Bill, an anti-poverty measure designed to stop \"vulture funds\" from buying up the debt of third-world countries in order to aggressively pursue repayments through the international courts. The bill was temporarily stopped because an anonymous Tory MP shouted \"object\", but was passed into law after intervention by Conservative whips.\n\nDavies is against introducing proportional representation and having an elected House of Lords. The Power 2010 campaign ran a full-page advertisement in \"The Guardian\" stating Phillips was one of six MPs accused of \"failing our democracy\" by opposing parliamentary reform. Davies responded in the local press saying that it was \"misleading not to put on the poster which issues I am for or against\", but had \"no complaints about them including things that are correct, but they must be clear on my views on ID cards and English voting\". He said he was against proportional representation, in common with \"many Tory and Labour MPs\", and any change to the House of Lords.\n\nIn March 2011, Davies said that there was \"no basis in evidence\" that restricting branding on cigarette packets would reduce smoking levels, stating: \"I believe that the introduction of plain packaging for cigarettes is gesture politics of the worst kind. It would not have any basis in evidence and it would simply be a triumph for the nanny state and an absurd one at that\". The physician Ben Goldacre outlined in his \"Guardian\" column the evidence base that Davies claimed did not exist, concluding that: \"If you don't care about this evidence, or you think jobs are more important than people killed by cigarettes, or you think libertarian principles are more important than both, then that’s a different matter. But if you say the evidence doesn't show evidence of harm from branded packaging, you are simply wrong\".\n\nDavies objected to banning smoking in cars with children in a 2011 debate on a private members' bill proposed by the Labour MP Alex Cunningham who said the \"science was clear\" about the risks from passive smoking. According to Davies, it should be a parental decision and there was a \"complete lack of evidence\" on the benefits. It eventually became an amendment to the Children and Families Bill.\n\nDavies married Deborah Gail Hemsley, whom he met whilst studying at Huddersfield Polytechnic, in July 1994 in Doncaster. The couple have two sons. They separated in 2011, blaming the pressures of his role as an MP, and divorced in November 2012. She was continuing to work for Davies as his part-time secretary in late 2016. He lives in Shipley and also has shared a flat in London with fellow MP Esther McVey, with whom he has had a \"long time on-and-off romantic interest\". In May 2019 the BBC's \"Politics Live\" programme reported that McVey and Davies are engaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859782", "title": "Trade diversion", "text": "Trade diversion\n\nTrade diversion is an economic term related to international economics in which trade is diverted from a more efficient exporter towards a less efficient one by the formation of a free trade agreement or a customs union. Total cost of good becomes cheaper when trading within the agreement because of the low tariff. This is as compared to trading with countries outside the agreement with lower cost goods but higher tariff. The related term Trade creation is when the formation of a trade agreement between countries decreases the price of the goods for more consumers, and therefore increases overall trade. In this case the more efficient producer with the agreement increases trade.\n\nThe terms were used by 'old' Chicago School economist Jacob Viner in his 1950 paper \"The Customs Union Issue\".\n\nAn early use of the terms was by Jacob Viner in his 1950 paper \"The Customs Union Issue\". Later in same decade Richard Lipsey noted that not only the location of production but also the location of consumption of goods would be effected by trade agreements.\n\nBéla Balassa discussed the concepts in relation to the European Common Market in his paper 1967 \"Trade Creation and Trade Diversion in the European Common Market\".\n\nIn 2013, Paul Oslington's \"Contextual History, Practitioner History, and Classic Status: Reading Jacob Viner’s The Customs Union Issue reviewed\" revisited Viner's original paper.\n\nWhen a country applies the same tariff to all nations, it will always import from the most efficient producer, since the more efficient nation will provide the goods at a lower price. With the establishment of a bilateral or regional free trade agreement, that may not be the case.\nIf the agreement is signed with a less-efficient nation, it may well be that their products become cheaper in the importing market than those from the more-efficient nation, since there are taxes for only one of them. Consequently, after the establishment of the agreement, the importing country would acquire products from a higher-cost producer, instead of the low-cost producer from which it was importing until then. In other words, this would cause a trade diversion.\n\nThe term was coined by Jacob Viner in \"The Customs Union Issue\" in 1950. In its literal meaning the term was however incomplete, as it failed to capture all welfare effects of discriminatory tariff liberalization, and it was not useful when it came to non-tariff barriers. Economists have however dealt with this incompleteness in two ways. Either they stretched the original meaning to cover all welfare effects, or they introduced new terms like trade expansion or internal versus external trade creation.\n\nViner's article became and still is the foundation of the theory of international economic integration. It considered only two states comparing their trade flows with the rest of the world after they abolish customs tariffs on inner border of their union. Following the fact that economic unions most often include more than 2 states, attempts have been made to increase the number of the states (3+world), but not so successfully, as they did not have as clear conclusions as Viner's.\n\nOpposite to economically efficient trade creation effect, the trade diversion flow is cost-inefficient compared with the rest of the world. Balance between trade creation and trade diversion effects due to the creation of economic union makes the union either economically efficient (positive balance) or inefficient (negative balance). It is based on the fact that unification of states usually applies mergers of more than 1 sector in economy (even European Coal and Steel Union, which had 2 sectors only) leading to the creation of either trade creation or diversion effects.\n\nPositive effects of trade diversion include increase of trade between unified states, increase of employment in manufacturing states inside the union consequently leading to increase of respective taxes and welfare.\n\nDiverted trade may hurt the non-member nation economically and politically, and create a strained relationship between the two nations. The decreased output of the good or service traded from one nation with a high comparative advantage to a nation of lower comparative advantage works against creating more efficiency and therefore against more overall surplus. It is widely believed by economists that trade diversion is harmful to consumers.\nThe dynamics of trade diversion was described by Ravshanbek Dalimov in 2009. He used similarity of trade flows to the flux of gas or liquid stimulated by the pressure difference, while the flows of trade flows are stimulated by the price difference. This allowed use of Navier-Stokes equations for the interregional dynamics of trade flows.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859786", "title": "Worker Peasant Student and Popular Front", "text": "Worker Peasant Student and Popular Front\n\nThe Worker Peasant Student and Popular Front () or FOCEP is a political party in Peru. It was founded as a broad front in 1977 by a group around Genaro Ledesma Izquieta, Socialist Workers Party, Peruvian Communist Party (Red Flag) and Revolutionary Marxist Workers Party. FOCEP participated in the elections in 1978. It later converted itself into a party, but only with the group around Ledesma. It participated in the 1980 elections alone, and on IU lists in 1985 and 1990.\nIt maintains good relations with the Workers Party of Korea of the DPRK\nand has signed the 1992 Pyongyang Declaration\n"}
{"id": "1859787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859787", "title": "Ramapo High School (New Jersey)", "text": "Ramapo High School (New Jersey)\n\nRamapo High School is a comprehensive four-year public high school located in the New York City suburb of Franklin Lakes, in Bergen County, New Jersey, United States. The school is a part of the Ramapo Indian Hills Regional High School District, serving students in ninth through twelfth grades from Franklin Lakes, Oakland and Wyckoff (FLOW). The other high school in the district is Indian Hills High School, located in Oakland. Students in eighth grade in the three sending districts have the opportunity to choose between Ramapo and Indian Hills by February in their graduating year.\n\nAs of the 2018–19 school year, the school had an enrollment of 1,222 students and 112.1 classroom teachers (on an FTE basis), for a student–teacher ratio of 10.9:1. There were 18 students (1.5% of enrollment) eligible for free lunch and none eligible for reduced-cost lunch.\n\nThe school was the 24th-ranked public high school in New Jersey out of 339 schools statewide in \"New Jersey Monthly\" magazine's September 2014 cover story on the state's \"Top Public High Schools\", using a new ranking methodology. The school had been ranked 17th in the state of 328 schools in 2012, after being ranked 19th in 2010 out of 322 schools listed. The magazine ranked the school 23rd in 2008 out of 316 schools. The school was ranked 28th in the magazine's September 2006 issue, which included 316 schools across the state.\n\nSchooldigger.com ranked the school tied for 53rd out of 381 public high schools statewide in its 2011 rankings (a decrease of 11 positions from the 2010 ranking) which were based on the combined percentage of students classified as proficient or above proficient on the mathematics (93.1%) and language arts literacy (96.5%) components of the High School Proficiency Assessment (HSPA).\n\nIn the 2011 \"Ranking America's High Schools\" issue by \"The Washington Post\", the school was ranked 46th in New Jersey and 1,479 nationwide.\n\nThe school, in tandem with Indian Hills High School, offers several special programs similar to college majors, wherein students are accepted into one of the programs and take a series of honors-level courses, in lieu of electives. Ramapo offers one University Program: Engineering.\n\nEngineering – Introduces students to the world of Engineering which has courses designed to give students a taste of various engineering fields, as well as helping them become familiar with the tools of an engineer, such as AutoCAD. This program is also tied to an extracurricular club, Robotics club, in which members of the engineering program build a robot to compete in a competition with other schools.\n\nCommunications and Theatre Arts students take classes together. District superintendent Dr. C. Lauren Schoen announced that the Communications and Theater Arts programs are being discontinued from Ramapo. Parents and students believe the cuts are due to the school's overall lower enrollment than Indian Hills.\n\nThe Ramapo High School Raiders compete in the Big North Conference, following a reorganization of sports leagues in Northern New Jersey by the New Jersey State Interscholastic Athletic Association (NJSIAA). With 817 students in grades 10-12, the school was classified by the NJSIAA for the 2015-16 school year as North I, Group III for most athletic competition purposes, which included schools with an enrollment of 786 to 1,074 students in that grade range. Prior to the realignment in 2010, Ramapo competed in the North Bergen Interscholastic Athletic League.\n\nThe school was recognized as the Group III winner of the NJSIAA ShopRite Cup in 2005–06. The award recognized the school for achieving a tie for 3rd in girls soccer, 2nd in girls volleyball, a tie for 3rd in football, 1st in softball, 1st in boys golf, 1st in boys lacrosse and 2nd in boys tennis. The school repeated as the Group III winner of the NJSIAA ShopRite Cup in 2006–07. The award recognized the school for achieving 1st place in girls' soccer, 2nd in boys' soccer, 3rd in girls' tennis, 3rd in boys' fencing, 2nd in girls' indoor track and field relays, 1st in girls' indoor track and field, 2nd in softball, 2nd in boys' lacrosse and 1st in girls' track and field.\n\nThe boys' baseball team won the Group III state championship in 2001, defeating Toms River South High School in the final game of the tournament.\n\nThe 2009–10 boys bowling team won the NBIL Division 1 championship over Paramus Catholic High School, while finishing the season ranked fifth in North Jersey. The team also finished tied with Don Bosco for 8th overall at the county tournament, and came in fourth in a tough group at the state sectionals. In the 2010–11 season, Ramapo continued upon the previous year's success, with a fifth-place finish in the county tournament, second place in the Big North division 5, and a North 1-A Group 3 sectional championship, defeating Pascack Valley High School, resulting in a season-ending ranking of third in North Jersey and 17th in the state.\n\nIn 2012 and 2013 the cheerleading squad won the Contest of Champions Nationals.\n\nIn 2009 Ramapo had the fencing state individual champion Adrian Bak, a member of the US national fencing team, who led Ramapo to a team sabre state title. In 2011, Charles Copti continued the trend and went on to win the state individual championship for the Sabre weapon.\n\nThe football team won the NJSIAA North I Group III state sectional championships in 1974, 1983, 1993, 1997, 2000, 2001, 2003, 2009 and 2012. The 2009 team won the North I Group III state championship beating archrival Wayne Hills High School 16–8 at Giants Stadium, for the team's first title since 2003. \n\nAfter falling behind by a score of 26–7 at the half, the 2012 football team went on to win the North I Group III state championship by a score of 37–34 over Sparta High School after scoring 20 unanswered points in the third quarter and kicking a 48-yard field goal with seconds left in the game to break a tie.\n\nAlso in 2015, the Ramapo Raiders beat River Dell Regional High School in the North I Group III state championship by a score of 45-15, earning the team's 10th state title in school history and the 5th state title under the direction of Coach Drew Gibbs. The 2015 football team finished the season with an 11-1 record.\n\nIn 2018, the team won its first NJSIAA bowl game title by beating Summit, 42-22, in the North Group 3 final at MetLife Stadium, completing the program's fourth unbeaten season all-time and becoming the first school in New Jersey history to finish 13-0.\n\nThe 2010 boys golf team won the state Group III championship.\n\nThe 2014 gymnastics team scored a 111.3 at the North Jersey Gymnastics League A-Division, which was the highest score in the state in 2014.\n\nThe Ramapo boys' lacrosse team won the 2006 Group II state championship with a 12–10 over Montgomery High School and advanced to the Tournament of Champions where they lost to Ridgewood High School by a score of 10-6. The 2010 team advanced to the Group II final, in which they lost to Princeton High School. With three goals in the game's final 84 seconds, Ramapo tied the game and took the Group II final into overtime, where they defeated Rumson-Fair Haven Regional High School by a score of 12-11 to win the 2017 tournament.\n\nThe boys' soccer team won the Group III state championship in 1990 (vs. Raritan High School), 1999 (as co-champion with Ocean City High School), 2002 (in double overtime vs. Ridge High School), 2007 (vs. Ocean City), 2011 (vs. Timber Creek Regional High School) and 2012 (as co-champion with Princeton High School). The 2007 boys' soccer team won the North I, Group III state sectional championship with a 2–0 win over Morris Hills High School in the tournament final. The win was Ramapo's fifth sectional title since 2002. The team moved on to win the Group III state championship with a 1–0 win over Ocean City High School. The win was the team's fourth state championship, and their first since 2002.\n\nThe 2007 boys' and girls' soccer teams went to the New Jersey Group III state championships, the girls losing and the boys winning with a 1–0 victory against Ocean City High School. In 2008, the boys soccer team won the county title over Don Bosco Preparatory High School but lost in the state semi finals to Millburn High School, while the girls team lost in the county championship to top-seeded Immaculate Heart Academy and won the state title by defeating Freehold High School by a score of 3–1 in the finals.\n\nThe 2011 boys soccer team was at one point ranked #16 in the country. They finished the season with a record of 22–1 and won the Group III state tournament over Timber Creek Regional High School by a score of 3–1.\n\nIn 2016, the Ramapo Raiders boys' soccer team was ranked 17th in the nation by \"USA Today\" / NSCAA. The team won the Group III state tournament with a win against Toms River South High School in the tournament final by a score of 3–0 and finished the season with a record of 22–0, the first team in the state without a loss since Ramapo did it in 2012.\n\nThe girls' soccer team won the Group III / IV combined title in 1982 (vs. East Brunswick High School) and 1983 (vs. Ewing High School), won the Group III state championships in 1985 (vs. Ewing), 1986 (as co-champion with Bridgewater-Raritan High School East), 1987 (vs. Ewing), 1990 (as co-champion with Camden Catholic High School), 1996 (vs. Brick Township High School), 1997 (vs. Lacey Township High School), 1998 (vs. Wall Township High School), 1999 (vs. Middletown High School South), 2006 (as co-champion with Freehold High School) and 2008 (vs. Freehold), giving the team 12 state titles, the most of any public school. The girls' soccer team tied Freehold High School 0–0 in the 2006 Group III championship game held at the College of New Jersey, with both teams sharing the co-championship. In 2007, the girls soccer team won the North I, Group III state sectional championship with a 2–0 win over Northern Highlands Regional High School in the tournament final, the team's 14th sectional title in the preceding 16 years.\n\nIn 2015, the girls soccer team won the NJSIAA Group II state championship by a score of 2-0 against Holmdel High School in the tournament final.\n\nThe softball team won the 2007 North I, Group III state sectional championship with a 2–0 win over Paramus High School.\n\nThe boys' tennis team won the Group IV state championship in 1972 (vs. Cherry Hill High School East), 1973 and 1974 (vs. Westfield High School both years), won the Group III title in 1977 (vs. Moorestown High School), 1985 (vs. Parsippany Hills High School), 1988 (vs. West Morris Central High School), 1989 (vs. Eastern Regional High School), 1991 (vs. Montville High School), 1992 (vs. North Brunswick High School), 1993 (vs. Montville), 1994 (vs. Morris Knolls High School), 1996 (vs. North Bruncswick), 1992 (vs. Millburn High School). The team won the overall state championship in 1973 (vs. Mountain Lakes High School), 1974 (vs. West Essex High School) and 1985 (vs. Christian Brothers Academy). The program's 13 state championships are tied for the fourth most of any high school team in the state.\n\nIn 2007, the girls tennis team won the North I, Group III state sectional championship with a 3–2 win over Northern Highlands Regional High School in the tournament finals. The win was the team's second consecutive title, and the 21st in team history.\n\nThe 2007 girls' track team won the State Group III indoor and outdoor titles, led by senior Kesley Ramsey, junior Amy Salek, sophomore Erin McKenna and sophomore Meagan Downey. The first three, along with junior Colleen Sullivan, finished second in the Penn Relays distance medley relay in a Bergen County time of 11 minutes, 56.59 seconds.\n\nThe 2009–10 Spring Track Boys Sprint Medley Team placed first overall in the Bergen County Relays in Division A, posting the 19th fastest time ever run in the County with a 3:32.7 and a 1:53 800 anchor leg by junior Bradley Paternostro. At the East Coast Relays, the sprint medley team came in first with a time of 3:28 (Bradley anchored in a 1:52), posting the seventh-fastest time in county history. The SMR will compete in nationals in North Carolina as well as Bradley in the open 800m race. Bradley was awarded the Bernard Smith Award for the Best Male Track Athlete of the meet, also running the anchor leg of the 4x400 boys relay which placed 4th. Also, Ramapo earned 2nd place in the 4x100 and a 4th-place finish in both the 4x200 and 4x400. At the 2010 State Sectional Meet, Paternostro won both the mile and 800, and the team placed fourth overall. At the 2010 Bergen Meet of Champions, Bradley won the 800 and anchored a 5th overall 4 × 400 m relay. In 1974 the mile relay team took 1st place at the league championship meet. During the 2018 season, the boys team won its first ever major relay meet, winning the Comet Relays Large School Division.\n\nThe 2010 boys cross country team won the league championship, marking the first time in 12 years that the boys had accomplished this feat.\n\nThe 2009, the wrestling team won the first league title in program history by defeating Northern Valley Regional High School at Old Tappan in a 28–28 tie. The tie was broken from the \"Second Tie Breaking Criteria: Most Matches Won\". Ramapo had 8 wins while Northern Valley-Old Tappan only had 6. The wrestling team won the title for its division in the league the following year. There are currently five wrestlers who are part of the \"100 Win Club\". They include 2005 graduate Jimmy Schulz, 2009 graduate Chris D'Amico, 2010 graduate Alex Scheinert, 2011 graduate Nick Madormo and 2016 graduate Wilfredo Gil.\n\nThe debate team won the 2007 state title in the JP Morgan Chase Lincoln Douglas Debate tournament. They also were victorious at the league and county level to take their first ever triple crown of debate.\n\nThe DECA team dominated the regional competition in 2008, only to be upset in the states. In February 2009, the team led Bergen County high schools and were awarded first place in the regional competition before earning fifth place in the state competition.\n\nMembers of the Academic Decathlon team reached the third round of News 12 New Jersey's The Challenge. The Academic Decathlon team was also awarded first place overall in the regional competition, and second place at the state level. A pair of 2009 graduates each won the gold medal for highest score in their grade divisions at both competitions. The 2011 Academic Decathlon team came in first place overall in the regional competition, and fourth place at the state competition. Team co-captain Madeline Feinstein won the gold medal for highest overall score in the region and the gold medal for highest overall score in the state at the varsity level. Team co-captain Mackenzie Mosera won the gold medal for highest overall score in the region at the scholastic level. Sean Foley won the silver medal for highest overall score in the region at the honors level.\n\nRamapo's performing arts program consists of the Gold Masque Theatre Club. Performances such as \"Into the Woods\" and \"Les Misérables\" have received Papermill Playhouse recognition.\n\nCore members of the school's administration are\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859789", "title": "Bride burning", "text": "Bride burning\n\nBride burning is a form of domestic violence practiced in countries located on or around the Indian subcontinent. A category of dowry death, bride-burning occurs when a young woman is murdered by her husband or his family for her family's refusal to pay additional dowry. The wife is typically doused with kerosene, gasoline, or other flammable liquid, and set alight, leading to death by fire. Kerosene is often used as the cooking fuel for dangerous small petrol stoves, so it allows the claim that the crime was an accident. It is most common in India and has been a major problem there since at least 1993.\n\nThis crime has been treated as culpable homicide and, if proven, is usually accordingly punished by up to lifelong imprisonment or death. Bride burning has been recognized as an important problem in India, accounting for around 2500 deaths per year in the country. In 1995, \"Time\" Magazine reported that dowry deaths in India increased from around 400 a year in the early 1980s to around 5800 a year by the middle of the 1990s. A year later, CNN ran a story saying that every year police receive more than 2500 reports of bride burning. According to Indian National Crime Record Bureau, there were 1948 convictions and 3876 acquittals in dowry death cases in 2008.\n\nA dowry death is the death of a young woman in South Asian countries, primarily India, who is murdered or driven to suicide by her husband. This results from the husband continually attempting to extract more dowry from the bride or her family. Bride burning is just one form of dowry death. Others include acid throwing and Eve teasing. Because dowry typically depends on class or socioeconomic status, women are often subjected to the dowry pressures of their future husband or his relatives.\n\nThere are at least four perspectives on why bride burning came to be and how its existence has prevailed in South Asian nations, as detailed by Avnita Lakhani in her report on bride burning titled \"The Elephant in the Room Is Out of Control\". These theories describe practices that contributed to the rise of dowry as a whole, thus ultimately contributing to bride burning.\n\nOne of the more culturally-founded theories suggests that in a highly patriarchal society such as India, a woman’s role is defined from before she is born, which ultimately places her as lesser than men. Because she is seen as a burden and an \"extra mouth to feed\", her status as an economic liability promotes the idea that men, who are considered physical assets, can treat women as subservient. Once a woman marries, she is bound to her husband and his will because \"society mandates obedience to her husband\".\n\nAnother theory claims that consumerism, a primarily-Western ideal that is newly founded in developing nations, has caused countries like India to become greedy. Because of this, dowry is used as a means to gain a higher socioeconomic status. As status is continually gained, the demand for bridal dowry increases in order to keep moving up the social ladder.\n\nLakhani also suggests that historically speaking, the dowry system may have been conceived as a way to distinguish Muslim from Hindu culture, creating a further divide within castes. A higher dowry would indicate a higher status and distinction from Islam, thus providing an incentive to demand a larger dowry.\n\nFinally, some scholars argue that the dowry practice came out of British rule and influence in India to distinguish \"different forms of marriage\" between castes. When the dowry system was established within the higher castes, the British government sought to reinforce it in the lower castes as a means to eradicate their more ritualised marriages. Such forms of union were discredited until only upper-caste marriage systems were recognised.\n\nAccording to an estimate from 2011, between 4,000 and 25,000 deaths occur from bride burning every year in India, Pakistan, and Bangladesh.\n\nDr. Ashley K. Jutla, MD and David Heimbach describe bride burning by saying that \"the husband and/or in-laws have determined that the dowry, a gift given from the daughter's parents to the husband, was inadequate and therefore attempt to murder the new bride to make the husband available to remarry or to punish the bride and her family.\" In India, dowry size is a reflection of wealth. The Indian author Rajesh Talwar has written a play on dowry deaths titled 'The Bride Who Would Not Burn.'\n\nIn 1961, the government of India passed the Dowry Prohibition Act, making the dowry demands in wedding arrangements illegal.\n\nIn 1986, the Indian Parliament added dowry deaths as a new domestic violence crime. According to the new section 304-B of the Indian Penal Code, where a bride \"within 7 years of her marriage is killed and it is shown that soon before her death, she was subjected to cruelty or harassment by her husband, or any relative of her husband, or in connection with any demand for dowry, such death shall be called 'dowry death' and such husband or relative shall be deemed to have caused her death.\"\n\nThe offenders can be sentenced for any period, from a minimum of seven years in prison to a maximum of life. Many cases of dowry-related domestic violence, suicides, and murders have been reported. A 1997 report claimed that at least 5000 women die each year because of dowry deaths and at least a dozen die each day in 'kitchen fires' thought to be intentional. About 30 percent of reported dowry deaths result in convictions in courts.\n\nIn Pakistan, the Progressive Women's Association says that 300 women are burned to death each year by their husband's families and that bride burning incidents are sometimes disguised as accidents, such as an 'exploding stove'. According to the Association, doctors say that victims presenting from these accidents have injuries inconsistent with stove burns. According to an Amnesty International report in 1999, although 1600 bride burning incidents were reported, only 60 were prosecuted and, of those, only two resulted in convictions.\n\nIn Pakistan, women including Shahnaz Bukhari have been campaigning for protective legislation against the practice, for established women’s shelters and for hospitals with specialised burn wards. Amnesty International has said that pressure from within, as well as from international human rights groups, may be increasing the level of awareness within the Pakistani government. The BBC estimated that roughly 300 Pakistani brides were burnt to death in 1999.\n\nIn 1988, a survey showed that 800 women were killed in this manner; in 1989, the number rose to 1100, and in 1990 it stood at 1800 estimated killings. Newspapers in Lahore in a six-month period (1997) reported on average 15 attacks a month. According to an estimate by Human Development in South Asia, on average there are 16 cases of bride burnings a month. Women's eNews reported 4000 women attacked in this manner in Islamabad's surroundings over an eight-year period and that the average age range of victims is between 18 and 35 with an estimated 30 percent being pregnant at the time of death. Shahnaz Bukhari has said of such attacks Either Pakistan is home to possessed stoves which burn only young housewives, and are particularly fond of genitalia, or looking at the frequency with which these incidences occur there is a grim pattern that these women are victims of deliberate murder. According to the Progressive Women's Association such attacks are a growing problem and in 1994 on International Women's Day announced that various NGOs would join to raise awareness of the issue.\n\nOccasionally, bride burning happens among resettled Indian, Pakistani and Bangladeshi communities in other parts of the world, including the United States.\n\nAleyamma Mathew was a registered nurse at a hospital in Carrollton, Texas, who died of burn wounds on 5 April 1992. She and her husband, Mathew Varughese, had immigrated from India two decades before and had three daughters in the United States. The couple had been having marital problems since the late 1980s, which culminated in a fight that led to Aleyamma’s death. She was found by her children, doused in gasoline and covered in flames, dying soon after.\n\nBrief articles were run in the \"Dallas Morning News\" and \"The Atlanta-Journal Constitution\" after the incident, while the \"Dallas Observer\" ran a detailed, nine page article covering Aleyamma’s death. The article faced some criticism for its portrayal of non-Western countries as backward or inappropriate: \"Battered by her husband, Aleyamma Mathew remained true to her culture. In the end she became its victim.\"\n\nThere are current governmental initiatives to criminalize bride burning and grassroots organizations working to combat the practice, as well as international laws working against human rights violations. Finally, there are many proposed initiatives in place to end bride burning globally.\n\nIn 1961, India enacted the Dowry Prohibition Act, to halt dowry murders. It was amended in the early 1980s to \"rectify several inherent weaknesses and loopholes\" in order to make it a criminal offense if the husband or his relatives causes a woman to \"die of burns or bodily injury or unnatural circumstances within seven years of the marriage and where there is evidence that she suffered cruelty and harassment in connection with the dowry.\" Unfortunately, this particular law does not provide a comprehensive definition of dowry, which can change the way it is demanded and delivered. Ultimately, this allowed perpetrators more flexibility in the court of dowry death. The seven-year clause is equally problematic, as it simply allowed husbands to wait until that period ended to burn or otherwise cause the death of their bride.\n\nAnother major Indian law, the 1983 \"Anti-Cruelty Statute\", prohibits cruelty towards a wife and subjects the husband and/or in-laws to fines or imprisonment if they inflict cruelty upon the wife. However, the law is equally ambiguous, which results in inadequate enforcement of bride burning and dowry murders.\n\nArticle 1 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights declares the following: “All human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. They are endowed with reason and conscience and should act towards one another in a spirit of brotherhood.” Article 5 proclaims: \"No one shall be subjected to torture or to cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.\"\n\nIn India, where most cases of bride burning are seen, domestic legislation is typically inadequately enforced. Because of this, grassroots organizations \"have taken up the cause to halt bride burning\". One example of this is government-funded family counseling center cells, in which the intended goal is to strengthen family ties and reduce legal intervention. However, often such cells only reinforce the stereotype of \"women’s sharp tongues\" and men’s power to \"hit and beat\". Other similar counseling-style NGOs have been developed in order to resolve such issues with similar consequences.\n\nPrimarily, alternative initiatives resolve around reform of current flawed, failing laws. One proposal calls for the expansion of the protection for women under the international refugee law in order to provide asylum to victims of gender discrimination or gendercide. One way this could be achieved would be by including women in the definition of a “persecuted social group”, which would allow their gender to seek international asylum under fear of dowry-related persecution globally.\n\nIn April 1984, European Parliament introduced a proposal that would \"protect women from persecution on the basis of gender\" by reforming international refugee laws. However, the proposal was rejected.\n\nAnother solution is to increase economic interest for women by establishing their property rights. Even when married, the bride has no rights over the property belonging to the husband while he is living. In giving women the right to own property, women would not need to marry for economic or legal purposes, thus disregarding the dowry practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859797", "title": "Symphony No. 2 (Elgar)", "text": "Symphony No. 2 (Elgar)\n\nSir Edward Elgar's Symphony No. 2 in E major, Op. 63, was completed on 28 February 1911 and was premiered at the London Musical Festival at the Queen's Hall by the Queen's Hall Orchestra on 24 May 1911 with the composer conducting. The work, which Elgar called \"the passionate pilgrimage of the soul\", was his last completed symphony; the composition of his Symphony No. 3, begun in 1933, was cut short by his death in 1934.\n\nThe dedication reads:\n\nThe more personal nature of this work, however, is clear in a letter to friend and close correspondent Alice Stuart-Wortley, in which Elgar states:\n\nThese remarks, recounted by Elgar's friend Charles Sanford Terry, shed light on Elgar's creative process. Some sketches of the Symphony No. 2 date back to 1903, a letter from October of that year indicating an idea for a symphony in E-flat major to be dedicated to his friend and conductor Hans Richter. The symphony was set aside during the composition of \"In the South\", Symphony No. 1, and the Violin Concerto. Rejected ideas from the latter work and earlier sketches joined the material Elgar began developing in late 1910 to complete the piece.\n\nThe symphony's thematic material, like much of Elgar's work, consists of short, closely interrelated motives which he develops via repetition, sequential techniques, and subtle cross references. Harmonically, the piece often borders on tonal ambiguity, with the composer employing musical devices such as chromaticism and, in the third movement, a whole tone scale in order to heighten the feeling of tonal uncertainty. Elgar also tends to emphasise a tonic-subdominant dichotomy rather than the more typical dominant; examples of this include the C minor Larghetto's second theme in F major, and the A major beginning to the first movement's recapitulation. The repetition of similar rhythm forms an essential part of the structural backbone of the piece, much in the manner of Brahms.\n\nVarious large and small scale musical allusions, both obvious and implied, may be found throughout the work. Robert Meikle draws attention to the Mahlerian treatment of the material in the last movement, as well as likenesses to Brahms's \"A German Requiem\". Meikle also notes the similarities to certain aspects of Brahms's Symphony No. 3, in particular the cyclical return of thematic material and the subdued texture which concludes both works. The motive in the first violins at rehearsal 1 of the first movement, reappearing in both the rondo and the finale, resembles both Elgar's own so-called \"Judgment\" theme from \"The Dream of Gerontius\" and the \"Dies irae\". An inverted chord appears at the conclusion of the work, and Allen Gimbel illustrates many possible links between this symphony and Wagner's \"Die Meistersinger von Nürnberg\", a work Elgar admired deeply. Specifically, Gimbel points out the resemblance of the motive on the last three beats of m. 2 of the first movement and the \"Abgesang\" of Walther's \"Prize Song\" from \"Die Meistersinger\", thus linking the trials of the opera's hero to Elgar's desire to assert his independence as an artist.\n\nThe symphony is scored for 3 flutes (1 doubling on piccolo), 2 oboes, English horn, 2 B clarinets, E clarinet, bass clarinet, 2 bassoons, contrabassoon, 4 horns, 3 trumpets, 3 trombones, tuba, timpani, snare drum, bass drum, tambourine, cymbals, 2 harps, and strings.\n\nThe first movement is the longest of the four, running at approximately 17 minutes. The opening contains wide intervals in the strings and upper winds with upward leaps, thus allowing Elgar to create much expression and passion. Elgar himself described this movement as \"tremendous in energy\".\n\nIt opens with what is known as the \"Spirit of Delight\" theme in E major, which reappears several times throughout the movement. After eight bars, a two-bar theme is introduced, followed by two more two-bar themes. A small bridging passage leads us to the second subject, a wistful tune played by the strings. Elgar was insistent that the first entrance of this new subject be played religiously \"pianissimo\" without sacrificing the expression dictated. This subject is formed from the repetition of a two-bar theme through a sequence that builds from \"pianissimo\" to \"fortissimo\". This then gives way to a slow, soft cello theme at rehearsal 11, featuring a song-like character. Throughout this section, the violas play a subtle accompaniment figure consisting of a quarter note moving up Diatonic and chromatically to an eighth note. This figure seems unimportant; however, it later goes on to become a major part of the heroic episode at rehearsal 20, interspersed with a trumpet call which bursts through triumphantly. The manipulation of these short motives serve as the basis of Elgar's composition in this movement. The brevity of this thematic material does not leave the listener feeling exhausted, as Elgar ties them up by closely relating each, resulting in a lengthy flowing development at rehearsal 24.\n\nThe opening melody of the development is made up of eerie diatonic and chromatic scales and is rather ambiguous, culminating in the appearance of what Elgar called the \"ghost\" motive in the violins at rehearsal 24. A clearer and more grounded tune appears later in the cellos, commanding this section until the transformation into what appears to be a super-development. Elgar quickly thickens out the score and fills it with punctuating accents and six bars of downward leaps into the main theme, thus beginning the transition back into the primary material. This bridging section contains a break after the first bar of rehearsal 42 which gives the audience a chance to catch its breath before plunging into the recapitulation, which follows the standard outline. Following is a coda section at rehearsal 61, which introduces a short, calm section before uprooting the music with a surge of excitement and closing with a virtuosic ending.\n\nThe second movement of the Symphony is a \"Larghetto\" funeral march in C minor. It has become popular belief that this movement is an elegy to Edward VII, after whose death it was written. Many, including Michael Kennedy, hold the belief that it is also a more personal expression of Elgar's grief, as he had lost close friends August Johannes Jaeger and Alfred Edward Rodewald around the time he was working on the symphony.\n\nThe movement is in sonata form without a development and is characterised by its manipulation of modal expectations. It opens with a seven-bar C minor introduction of soft chords in the strings, grouped into a 3+3+1 bar pattern which contrasts with the clear 4+4 grouping of the main theme's funeral march. The march tread of the movement is suggested beginning at bar 8 by a series of throbbing chords on beats two and four, pulsing in the string and drum accompaniment under the grave winds and brass melody. An unexpected welling of emotion is heard just before the March section closes at rehearsal 70, followed by a transitory passage featuring a \"sigh\" motive (rehearsal 70) in the woodwinds. This transition modulates to the second theme in F minor opens with a lyrical but subdued string episode at 71. Then, as if Elgar had lost his sense of restraint, we hear a build-up of dynamic, an increase in tempo, and more imaginative scoring leading to a triumphant F major climax in the brass, marked \"Nobilmente e semplice\" (rehearsal 76). The \"sigh\" figure is again heard in the closing thematic area at rehearsal 78, as if to recall earlier grief, slowly melting into the recapitulation of the C minor March theme at rehearsal 79.\n\nThe primary theme is now heard against a new countersubject in the oboe, resembling a solo lament of which Elgar, conducting, said:\n\nThe lyrical string second theme follows immediately at rehearsal 81 without a transition, this time in E major, the key of the \"Spirit of Delight\" theme. Everything follows according to sonata form convention until the coda (three bars after rehearsal 88), an extended V chord resolving to a warm and mournful return to C minor at rehearsal 89. An allusion to the introduction is then interrupted by an unexpected crescendo in the trombones and strings, quickly silenced as the movement ends with a decrescendo to \"ppp\".\n\nThe third movement is the shortest of the four, running 8 to 9 minutes. Labelled a rondo by Elgar, it by no means adheres to the typical rondo archetype; Robert Meikle successfully analysed the movement's structure according to several different forms: two different rondos (the first ABACABA, the second ABACADABACA), a scherzo and trio, and a sonata form.\n\nThe opening theme in C major is derived from a motif heard initially in the first movement (at rehearsal 1). Featuring a recurring two sixteenth–eighth note rhythm and a sprightly character, it is traded between strings and woodwinds in quick successive units, maintaining a sense of rhythmic unrest through offbeat accompaniment patterns and hemiolas. A second sweeping theme in C minor begins at rehearsal 93, similar in contour and rhythm to the first movement motive mentioned above. Marked \"fortissimo\" and \"sonoramente\" in the strings, it is occasionally supplemented by winds and horns and punctuated by accented off-beats in the brass and timpani. This theme is then repeated \"piano\" by the first violins with interjecting woodwind solos. The opening material returns in fragments, running through a series of harmonic sequences and building to the entrance of the third theme at rehearsal 100, which maintains the sweeping aspects of the C minor section with the added rhythmic punch of the opening. This is followed by a return to the opening thematic material in earnest.\n\nA pastoral theme appears at rehearsal 106 in the woodwinds, oscillating between a string motive related to the C minor theme and the opening material. Throughout this section, the timpani subtly foreshadows the coming strife with a repeated eighth note pattern played softly in the background. This action begins to intensify at rehearsal 118, with the return of the \"ghost\" motive from the first movement and the hammering of eighth notes in timpani, brass, high winds, and tambourine. It is a striking moment, a violent outburst in the midst of relative serenity; Elgar stated that it represented \"the madness that attends the excess or abuse of passion\", and tied it to a section of a Tennyson poem related to a corpse's experience in his grave (\"...the hoofs of the horses beat, beat into my scalp and brain...\"). The episode passes seemingly unnoticed, fading away before the recapitulation of earlier material, concluding with a triumphant C major cadence.\n\nThe fourth movement of the symphony, marked \"Moderato e maestoso\", is in a clear sonata form. The exposition opens with a primary theme in E-flat major; every bar has the same rhythmic pattern and the last beat of each bar ends with a downwards leap of a perfect fifth. An aggressive transitional theme at rehearsal 139 leads, through sequences, to a \"grandioso\" climax (four bars before rehearsal 142), followed by a new theme in the dominant (B-flat major) at 142, marked \"Nobilmente\" like the climactic section of the second movement.\n\nIn large part, the development, beginning at 145, is a fugato based on the transitional theme described above. It modulates very little, centring essentially around D major and B minor, calls for extreme orchestral virtuosity, and features very complex scoring. The climax of the section arrives at rehearsal 149 when the brass and percussion play a bar evoking the main theme and the trumpet hits a high B that rings out over the entire orchestra. The score calls for a B lasting only one bar, but, on one occasion, the trumpeter Ernest Hall held the note for two full bars. Elgar was so delighted that it has since become tradition to hold the B for the two bars.\n\nAt the end of the development, new lyrical melodic material leads to a return of the main theme and a modulation back to E major. Thus, the recapitulation follows in fairly standard fashion at rehearsal 157; it brings back the same themes and firmly establishes E major.\n\nThe coda at rehearsal 167, marked \"più tranquillo\", again puts the main theme of the movement in the cellos and brings back the \"Spirit of Delight\" motive from the first movement, now heard in the woodwinds at a slower tempo at rehearsal 168.\n\nThe movement ends peacefully, and Elgar, who had premiered his First Symphony and his Violin Concerto to \"endless ovations\", is said to have been disappointed by the less generous reception of the Second Symphony. This could be in part because a quiet ending did not stir the audience into a wild show of appreciation but rather a more contemplative one, and in fact, the \"Daily Mail\" gave it a warm review, stating, \"the symphony was received with unhesitating and most cordial warmth\".\n\nThere is much speculation as to who inspired Elgar to write this symphony. It was officially dedicated to Edward VII, who died in May 1910, but many scholars nonetheless believe his close friend Alice Stuart Wortley, with whom he was rumoured to have a romantic liaison, served as inspiration. Others tie the work to Elgar's grief over the death of his close friend Alfred E. Rodewald in 1903, as shortly thereafter, Elgar started sketching the \"Larghetto\" movement of the symphony.\n\nElgar told close friends that the symphony represented everything that had happened to him from April 1909 to February 1911, from the people he was with and the places he visited. During this time, Elgar visited Venice where he admired St. Mark's Basilica and its square, which, he later explained, inspired the opening of the \"Larghetto\" movement. Later in this period, he visited Tintagel in Cornwall in the southwest of England, spending time with Alice Stuart Wortley and her husband Charles. His friendship with Alice strengthened over the course of their many walks; Alice's daughter Clare later recalled one such stroll in the evening sun, the lyrical beauty of the countryside and the coastline engaging Elgar's interest. These events explain the words \"Venice and Tintagel\" inscribed at the bottom of Elgar's score.\n\nAnother known inspiration for the piece is the poem \"Song\" by Percy Bysshe Shelley, one of the last poems published before his death in 1822:\n\n<poem style=\"margin-left: 2em;\">Rarely, rarely, comest thou, Spirit of Delight!\nWherefore hast thou left me now\nMany a day and night?\nMany a weary night and day\n'Tis since thou art fled away.</poem>\n\nThe first line of this first stanza is written on the score, at the bottom of the first page. Elgar said, \"To get near the mood of the symphony the whole of Shelley's poem may be read, but the music does not illustrate the whole of the poem, neither does the poem entirely elucidate the music.\"\n\nScholars speculate about the \"Windflower\" influence on this symphony, \"Windflower\" the affectionate nickname, inspired by Elgar's favourite buttercup flower, given to Alice Stuart Wortley by the composer. That Elgar and Alice were close friends is beyond question; the two kept in regular, frequent contact for several years. By virtue of Elgar's letters (the only side of their correspondence which survives), some suggest the composer harboured romantic feelings for the talented pianist and, furthermore, that his feelings may have been reciprocated. Concrete evidence of such a relationship, however, does not exist; Alice and Charles Stuart Wortley were well-known music lovers, and several members of both the Elgar and Stuart Wortley families maintained close ties through visits and letters. Alice spent much time with Elgar during his visit to Tintagel, and Elgar clearly admired her; however, whether he thought of her as anything more than a friend and confidante is unknown. She may have served as some form of muse for the composer as he drew upon his time in Tintagel whilst writing his second symphony.\n\nElgar, though always prone to spells of intense self-doubt, had come to expect positive reactions to his new works. The premiere of Symphony No. 1 in 1908 was received enthusiastically by an exuberant audience and press; Elgar's name was linked with the likes of Beethoven and Brahms, and the work was performed 82 times over the following year. Thus, Elgar was unpleasantly surprised by the very different reception given the premiere of his Symphony No. 2. The less-than-capacity filled hall responded to the new symphony, according to \"The Times\" reviewer, \"with much favour, though with rather less enthusiasm than usual.\"\n\nReasons for this perceived waning of interest could include the performance of \"The Dream of Gerontius\" and the Violin Concerto earlier the same week, the presence of two other composer-conductor premieres on the programme, or the high ticket prices. The emotional disconnect between an audience eager for the coronation of a new monarch and a brooding symphony in mournful commemoration of the late king may have also affected the reaction. Regardless, the lukewarm response prompted Elgar to remark to Henry Wood immediately upon exiting the stage, \"Henry, they don't like it, they don't like it\", and complain to W. H. Reed shortly thereafter, \"they sit there like a lot of stuffed pigs.\" In the aftermath of the symphony's premiere, Elgar was \"despondent\" and subsequently entered \"one of his periods of despair.\"\n\nThe reviews from that first performance were, however, generally positive. The critic of \"The Daily Telegraph\" lauded Elgar's \"firmer grip, not only of the symphonic form, but of the substance expressed within its confines.\" This reviewer would also attest \"there are heights here that hitherto even Elgar himself had not touched, but we are doubtful if the greater public will realise the fact immediately.\" The critic of \"The Times\" acclaimed the work as \"a great deal better than his first\", remarking that the second and fourth movements in particular \"touch the composer's highest mark.\"\n\nReviews in the following year, however, were decidedly mixed. Elgar conducted the Hallé Orchestra in a performance on 23 November 1911 eliciting the critic of \"The Manchester Guardian\" to declare \"Elgar's original charm and his power of surprising us into wonder have diminished rather than grown as his craftsmanship and subtlety of fantastic variation have increased ... we can hardly say that the work contains any melody in the full sense of the word. Neither can we say with confidence that it quite vanquishes the impression of coldness and hardness.\" The American premiere in Cincinnati on 24 and 25 November by the Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra under Leopold Stokowski was not well received, and the American correspondent of \"The Times\" had this to say of a New York performance on 16 December: \"One cannot listen to even the most eloquent pleading for nearly an hour without fatigue, and that was the first impression this music made – of restless, unpitying earnestness...not only is no concession made to the sensuously pleasing, but little regard is paid to the psychological need for contrast, for relief. It is a devotee exhorting a congregation assumed also to be devotees.\"\n\nThe symphony was slow to catch on, not performed a second time by the Hallé Orchestra, generally very supportive of Elgar's music, until 1926. The Royal Philharmonic Society performed the work in 1916 and not again until seven years later. In the wake of World War I, it did begin to stake its place in the repertoire. A concert in March 1924, inspired the \"Times\" critic to remark upon the second movement: \"one wondered whether any nobler or more beautiful funeral music has been written than this, which unrolls like some vast tapestry richly woven of purple and crimson threads.\" Adrian Boult's rendering of the piece with the London Symphony Orchestra on 16 March 1920 was received with \"frantic enthusiasm,\" and stirred Elgar to declare, \"I feel that my reputation in the future is safe in your hands.\"\n\nThe symphony was first recorded complete in 1927 by His Master's Voice, part of the EMI group, conducted by the composer. This recording was later reissued on LP and later on CD. There was no further recording for eighteen years, until Sir Adrian Boult and the BBC Symphony Orchestra made a recordings of the symphony in 1944. Since then there have been more than twenty-four new recordings. All the studio recordings of the symphony were made in the UK, until Sakari Oramo recorded the symphony with the Royal Stockholm Philharmonic Orchestra for BIS in 2011. The non-British conductors who have recorded the work in the studio (they include Sir Georg Solti, Giuseppe Sinopoli, Bernard Haitink, André Previn, Daniel Barenboim and Leonard Slatkin) have all done so with one of the London orchestras. Live performances from Russia and Australia have been recorded for CD, conducted by Yevgeny Svetlanov and Vladimir Ashkenazy respectively. Of the British conductors, Boult recorded the work five times, Sir John Barbirolli and Sir Andrew Davis have each made two recordings, while the London Philharmonic has played on seven recordings.\n\nBBC Radio 3's \"Building a Library\" feature has broadcast comparative reviews of all available recordings of the symphony on three occasions since the 1980s. \"The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music\", 2008, carries three pages of reviews of recordings of the work. The recordings given the top recommendation by both the BBC and \"The 'Penguin Guide\" are the 1975 Decca version by Solti and the London Philharmonic, coupled with the First Symphony, and the 1981 EMI recording by Vernon Handley with the same orchestra.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859798", "title": "Progear", "text": "Progear\n\nProgear is an arcade video game developed by CAVE and published by Capcom on the CPS-2 arcade system board in 2001. This was Cave's only horizontal scrolling shooter until \"Deathsmiles\" in 2007. The game features a steampunk-like style and art design. This game is the second of two CAVE shoot 'em ups to be released in America with the third CAVE NTSC-U/C release being \"Princess Debut\", and in limited print; and as a result, the US version is somewhat rare.\n\nAt the start of the game, the player is given a choice between two pilots/planes and three gunners, which determines the effectiveness of their respective modes. Each character's costume can be changed by holding the start button at the selection screen.\n\n\n\nWhen selecting the gunner pilot, the formation of the gunners can be changed to the following:\n\n\n\nWhen (a portion of) an enemy is destroyed, the resulting explosions turn nearby bullets into rings or gems, depending on the player's weapon mode when destruction occurs. In pilot mode, bullets become rings. In gunner mode, bullets become gems. The bullets being converted also depend on the current weapon mode. In pilot mode, only bullets nearby the enemy unit are converted; in gunner mode, enemy bullets that are close to the enemy bullets being converted into jewels are also affected. In boss battles, all enemy bullets are always converted into rings when the life points of the critical portion of the boss's body is below a predefined value. A bullet is converted into a jewel of at least base jewel class. Jewels can be collected automatically by switching firing modes.\n\nThe current jewel class can be seen at the lower left of the screen. Jewels are ranked in the order of amethyst, ruby, emerald, and diamond. Except for diamond, all jewel types come in 3 intermediate classes, in the following fashion:\nJewel class can be increased by collecting rings with a higher class than the current jewel class. Higher-class rings can be found by destroying a large number of bullets at once. However, when the player's weapon is in gunner mode, bullets only become gems of current jewel class regardless of the number of bullets converted at once.\n\nJewel class is decreased to the basic level when:\n\nFurthermore, if the player dies, the jewel class is reduced to Small Amethyst, and the current jewel counter is reduced by 25%; when the player uses a bomb, the jewel counter is decreased. Base jewel class can be increased by repeatedly collecting bombs after having 3 in stock, up to Large Emerald. For every 10,000 jewel counter points, the player gains 10 extra score points for inflicting enemy damage.\n\nAt the end of each stage, the gunner's relationship with the pilot is evaluated based on the player's performance. The relationship is defined by:\n\n\nThe ratings are accumulated between stages. Higher Lovely levels increase bombs' penetration level, which can increase the score. Furthermore, Lovely level affects the attacks of enemy units in the upcoming stage, and the game's ending between the Pilot and the Gunner.\n\nThe difficulty of a given stage depends on the score of a previous stage, with increased difficulty for higher score. The game has 5 stages. After completing all stages, a different ending occurs after the generic pilot escape ending, depending on the player's Lovely level. However, the player can enter a second loop if at the end of stage 5, only 1 life is lost or at most 2 bombs have been used. When that occurs, the ending shows the Stage 5 boss is alive before the game enters the second loop.\n\nThe second loop has the following changes:\n\nAfter completing all stages, the player receives a clear bonus, which is equal to 10 score points for every jewel counterpoint.\n\nSometime in the past, the people of the country of Parts had found a way to become immortal, but only with elderly nobles. Five of these elders—Ballossum Pench, Gabriel Hammer, Jimchuck Spanner, Olsorro Slasher, and Leonard Drill—obtained immortality, and became known as the Motoruin sages. Eventually, they attempted to take over the Parts kingdom and start a new world order, collapsing the government and destroying parts of the country in the process. As their plans unfold, five children of one of these villages decide to battle the Motoruin using another new invention: the semi-automatic propelling engine, known as \"Progear\".\n\n\nThe game's soundtrack was published by Suleputer in 2003. A reprint was released by SuperSweep in 2014.\n\nAn English version was released in the U.S. and other parts of Asia. There are following changes:\n\ni-mode and EzWeb versions are split into 2 separate games.\n\nA \"Progear DX\" was released for 256K Yahoo mobile models.\n\nScreenshots of gameplay were used in the video for the song Ikaruga, by the band Discordance Axis.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859799", "title": "Symphony No. 1 (Elgar)", "text": "Symphony No. 1 (Elgar)\n\nSir Edward Elgar's Symphony No. 1 in A major, Op. 55 is one of his two completed symphonies. The first performance was given by the Hallé Orchestra conducted by Hans Richter in Manchester, England, on 3 December 1908. It was widely known that Elgar had been planning a symphony for more than ten years, and the announcement that he had finally completed it aroused enormous interest. The critical reception was enthusiastic, and the public response unprecedented. The symphony achieved what \"The Musical Times\" described as \"immediate and phenomenal success\", with a hundred performances in Britain, continental Europe and America within just over a year of its première.\n\nThe symphony is regularly programmed by British orchestras, and features occasionally in concert programmes in North America and continental Europe. It is well represented on record, with recordings ranging from the composer's 1931 version with the London Symphony Orchestra to modern digital recordings, of which more than 20 have been issued since the mid-1980s.\n\nNearly ten years before composing his first symphony, Elgar had been intrigued by the idea of writing a symphony to commemorate General Charles George Gordon rather as Beethoven's Eroica was originally intended to celebrate Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1899 he wrote to his friend August Jaeger (the \"Nimrod\" of the Enigma Variations), \"Now as to Gordon: the thing possesses me, but I can't write it down yet.\" After he completed his oratorio \"The Kingdom\" in 1906 Elgar had a brief fallow period. As he passed his 50th birthday he turned to his boyhood compositions which he reshaped into \"The Wand of Youth\" suites during the summer of 1907. He began work on a symphony and when he went to Rome for the winter he continued work on it, finishing the first movement. After his return to England he worked on the rest of the symphony during the summer of 1908.\n\nElgar had abandoned the idea of a \"Gordon\" symphony, in favour of a wholly non-programmatic work. He had come to consider abstract music as the pinnacle of orchestral composition. In 1905 he gave a lecture on Johannes Brahms's Symphony No. 3, in which he said that when music was simply a description of something else it was carrying a large art somewhat further than he cared for. He thought music, as a simple art, was at its best when it was simple, without description, as in the case of the Brahms symphony. The first page of the manuscript carries the title, \"Symphony for Full Orchestra, Op. 55.\" To the music critic Ernest Newman he wrote that the new symphony was nothing to do with Gordon, and to the composer Walford Davies he wrote, \"There is no programme beyond a wide experience of human life with a great charity (love) and a massive hope in the future.\"\nThe symphony was dedicated \"To Hans Richter, Mus. Doc. True Artist and true Friend.\" It was premiered on 3 December 1908 in the Free Trade Hall in Manchester, with Richter conducting the Hallé Orchestra. The London première followed four days later, at the Queen's Hall, with the London Symphony Orchestra conducted by Richter. At the first rehearsal for the London concert, Richter addressed the orchestra, \"Gentlemen, let us now rehearse the greatest symphony of modern times, written by the greatest modern composer – \"and not only in this country\".\" William Henry Reed, who played in the LSO at that concert, recalled, \"Arriving at the \"Adagio\", [Richter] spoke almost with the sound of tears in his voice and said: 'Ah! this is a real Adagio – such an Adagio as Beethove' would 'ave writ'.\"\n\n\"The Musical Times\" wrote in 1909, \"To state that Elgar's Symphony has achieved immediate and phenomenal success is the bare truth.\" Within weeks of the première the symphony was performed in New York under Walter Damrosch, Vienna under Ferdinand Löwe, St. Petersburg under Alexander Siloti, and Leipzig under Artur Nikisch. There were performances in Chicago, Boston, Toronto and 15 British towns and cities. By February 1909 the New York Philharmonic Orchestra had given two more performances at Carnegie Hall and had taken the work to \"some of the largest inland cities ... It is doubtful whether any symphonic work has aroused so great an interest since Tchaikowsky's \"Pathétique\".\" In the same period the work was played six times in London, under the baton of Richter, the composer, and Henry Wood. Within just over a year there were a hundred performances worldwide.\n\n\"The Musical Times\" printed a digest of press comments on the symphony. \"The Daily Telegraph\" was quoted as saying, \"[T]hematic beauty is abundant. It is exquisite in the adagio, and in the first and second allegros, the latter a kind of scherzo; when the rhythmic impulse, the power and the passion are at their extreme height, when the music becomes almost frenzied in its superb energy, the sense of sheer beauty is still strong.\" \"The Morning Post\", wrote, \"This is a work for the future, and will stand as a legacy for coming generations; in it are the loftiness and nobility that indicate a masterpiece, though its full appreciation will only be from the most serious-minded; to-day we recognise it as a possession of which to be proud.\" \"The Evening Standard said, \"Here we have the true Elgar – strong, tender, simple, with a simplicity bred of inevitable expression. ... The composer has written a work of rare beauty, sensibility, and humanity, a work understandable of all.\"\n\n\"The Musical Times\" refrained from quoting \"The Observer\", which was the only dissenting voice among the main newspapers. It complained that the work was derivative of Felix Mendelssohn, Johannes Brahms and Richard Wagner, and thought the theme of the slow movement \"cheap ready-made material\". It allowed, however, that \"Elgar's orchestration is so magnificently modern that the dress disguises the skeleton.\" This adverse view was in contrast with the praise in \"The Times\": \"[A] great work of art, which is lofty in conception and sincere in expression, and which must stand as a landmark in the development of the younger school of English music.\" In \"The Manchester Guardian\", Samuel Langford described the work as \"sublime ... the work is the noblest ever penned for instruments by an English composer.\"\n\n\"The Times\" noted the influence of Wagner and Brahms: \"There are characteristic reminiscences of \"Parsifal\"... and rhythmically the chief theme looks like an offspring of Brahms\" but concluded \"it is not only an original work, but one of the most original and most important that has been added to the stock of recent music.\" \"The New York Times\", which also detected the influence of \"Parsifal\", and, in the finale, of Verdi's \"Aida\", called the symphony \"a work of such importance that conductors will not lightly let it drop.\"\n\nThe work is the only frequently-performed symphony whose main key is A-flat major.\nIt is scored for three flutes (one doubling piccolo), two oboes and cor anglais, two clarinets and bass clarinet, two bassoons and contrabassoon, four horns, three trumpets, three trombones, tuba, timpani, percussion (including snare drum, bass drum and cymbals), two harps, and strings. It is in four movements:\n\nThe symphony is in a cyclic form: the incomplete \"nobilmente\" theme from the first movement returns in the finale for a complete \"grandioso\" statement after various transformations throughout the work. Elgar wrote, \"the opening theme is intended to be simple &, in intention, noble & elevating ... the sort of ideal call – in the sense of persuasion, not coercion or command – & something above every day & sordid things.\" The musicologist Michael Kennedy writes \"One cannot call it a motto-theme, but it is an \"idée fixe\", and after its first quiet statement, the full orchestra repeat it \"fortissimo\". It gently subsides back to woodwind and violas and abruptly switches to D minor, an extraordinary choice of key for the first \"allegro\" of a Symphony in A flat.\" Reed speculates that Elgar's choice of D minor was a gesture against academic rules. According to the conductor Sir Adrian Boult, the clashing keys arose because someone made a bet with Elgar that he could not compose a symphony in two keys at once. It has also been speculated that the contrast was intended to represent two sides of Elgar's own personality - the successful and popular 'Bard of Empire' is heard in the noble A flat motif, set against the inner worries that continually troubled him. The movement is in traditional sonata form with two main themes, a development and a recapitulation. It ends quietly, \"an effect of magical stillness\".\nThe second movement is a brisk allegro. Elgar did not call it a scherzo, and though Reed calls it \"vivacious\", others, including Kennedy, have found it restless and even sinister in parts. A middle section, in B, is in Elgar's \"Wand of Youth\" vein. He asked orchestras to play it \"like something you hear down by the river.\" As the movement draws to a close it slows down, and its first theme is transformed into the main theme of the slow movement, despite their contrasting tempi and different keys. According to Reed, \"Someone once had the temerity to ask Elgar which version, the \"allegro\" or the \"adagio\", was written first; but the question was not very well received and the subject was not pursued.\"\n\nKennedy says of the \"adagio\" that it is \"unique among Elgar slow movements in the absence of that anguished yearning usually to be found in his quieter passages. There is no \"Angst\" here, instead a benedictory tranquillity ...\" The second subject of the movement remains in the tranquil vein, and the movement ends in what Reed calls \"the astounding effect of the muted trombones in the last five bars ... like a voice from another world.\"\n\nThe finale begins in D minor with a slow repeat of one of the subsidiary themes of the first movement, showing Elgar in \"one of his most dreamy and mysterious moods.\" After the introduction there is a restless allegro, with a succession of themes including an \"impulsive march-rhythm\". In a manner recalling the motivic transformation between the second and third movement, this material is later heard at half speed accompanied by harp arpeggios and with a lyrical string melody. The movement builds to a climax and ends with the \"nobilmente\" opening theme of the symphony returning \"orchestrated with glittering splendour\" to bring the work to a \"triumphant and confident\" conclusion.\n\nThe composer's 1931 EMI recording of the First Symphony plays for 46 minutes and 30 seconds. The BBC's archives show that in a 1930 broadcast performance Elgar took 46 minutes. Elgar was noted for his brisk tempi in his own music, and later performances have been slower. Elgar's contemporaries, Sir Henry Wood and Sir Hamilton Harty took respectively 50:15 (1930) and 59:45 in 1940. In 1972, while preparing a new recording, Georg Solti studied Elgar's 1931 performance. Solti's fast tempi, based on the composer's own, came as a shock to Elgarians accustomed to the broader tempi taken by Harty, Sir John Barbirolli and others in the mid-20th century. Barbirolli's 1963 recording takes 53:53; Solti takes 48:48. Later examples of slower tempi include a 1992 recording conducted by Giuseppe Sinopoli (55:18), and a 2001 live recording conducted by Sir Colin Davis (54:47).\n\nThe first recording of the symphony was made by the London Symphony Orchestra in 1931, conducted by the composer for His Master's Voice. The recording was reissued on long-playing record (LP) in 1970, and on compact disc in 1992 as part of EMI's \"Elgar Edition\" of all the composer's electrical recordings of his works.\n\nAfter 1931 the work received no further gramophone recordings until Sir Adrian Boult's 1950 recording. During the 1950s there was only one other new recording of the symphony, and in the 1960s there were only two. In the 1970s there were four new recordings. In the 1980s there were six, and the 1990s saw twelve. Ten new recordings were released in the first decade of the 21st century. Most of the recordings have been by British orchestras and conductors, but exceptions include the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra, Stuttgart Radio Symphony Orchestra, Dresden Staatskapelle, and Sydney Symphony Orchestra, and conductors Vladimir Ashkenazy, Daniel Barenboim, Bernard Haitink, Tadaaki Otaka, André Previn, Constantin Silvestri, Giuseppe Sinopoli, and Leonard Slatkin.\n\nBBC Radio 3's \"Building a Library\" feature, a comparative review of all available recordings, has considered the symphony three times since 1982. \"The Penguin Guide to Recorded Classical Music\", 2008 edition, contains two pages of reviews of the work. The two recordings recommended by both the BBC and \"The Penguin Guide\" are by Boult and the London Philharmonic Orchestra (1977) and Vernon Handley with the same orchestra (1979).\n\n"}
{"id": "1859801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859801", "title": "Altria Theater", "text": "Altria Theater\n\nThe Altria Theater in Richmond, Virginia, United States is a theater at the southwest corner of Monroe Park, the largest venue of Richmond CenterStage's performing arts complex. Formerly known as The Mosque and the Landmark Theater, the Altria Theater was originally built for Shriners of the Acca Temple Shrine.\n\nIn 1940, the building was purchased by the City of Richmond, which converted much of its interior for municipal use. The Richmond Police Department occupied the theater's basement, where they opened up office space, classrooms, a gymnasium, and a shooting range for the police academy. An underground swimming pool was also maintained, initially for training purposes, until it was filled in with concrete during the 2014 renovation.\n\nThe name of the theater was changed in 1995 from \"The Mosque\" to \"Landmark Theater\" following a year of restoration. After a $10 million renovation gift from the company, the theater was officially dubbed the Altria Theater in February 2014. It annually plays host to big-name musical and theatrical performers.\n\nThe theater was designed in Moorish Revival style by Marcellus E. Wright Sr. in association with Charles M. Robinson and Charles Custer Robinson circa 1925. J. R. Ray, of the Richmond Tile and Mosaic Works, was responsible for the widely used ornamental tile, and J. Frank Jones, of the Rambusch Decorating Company, oversaw the interior decoration. The building officially opened in 1927, and was dedicated by the Shriners in 1928.\n\nPerformers such as Elvis Presley, Jimi Hendrix, Bill Burr, Grateful Dead, Bruce Springsteen, Frank Sinatra, Roy Buchanan, B B King, Widespread Panic and The Supremes held shows at this venue. Notable Broadway performances such as Wicked, The Lion King, Les Miserables, and Cats have also been past visitors of The Altria Theater.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859802", "title": "Revolutionary Vanguard (Communist Proletarian)", "text": "Revolutionary Vanguard (Communist Proletarian)\n\nRevolutionary Vanguard (Communist Proletarian) (in Spanish: \"Vanguardia Revolucionaria (Proletario Comunista)\", abbreviated VR-PC) was a Maoist-oriented political party in Peru founded in 1977 by Eduardo Figari and Julio César Mezzich. It was formed through a split in Revolutionary Vanguard. In 1978 a faction mainly active in the peasant movement around Mezzich and Lino Quintanillo left the VR-PC and most of its members joined individually the Shining Path.\n\nFigari served as the general secretary of the VR-PC. In October 1979 VR-PC was a co-founder of the electoral coalition Union of the Revolutionary Left (UNIR). \"El Proletario Comunista\" was the organ of the Central Committee of VR-PC.\n"}
{"id": "1859805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859805", "title": "2005 Giro d'Italia", "text": "2005 Giro d'Italia\n\nThe 2005 Giro d'Italia was the 88th edition of the Giro d'Italia, one of cycling's Grand Tours. The Giro began in Reggio Calabria with a prologue. The race came to a close with a mass-start road stage that stretched from Albese con Cassano to Milan. Twenty two teams entered the race that was won by the Italian Paolo Savoldelli of the team. Second and third were the Italian Gilberto Simoni and Venezuelan José Rujano.\n\nFive riders led the race over eight occasions before Savoldelli gained the lead after the Giro's thirteenth stage. The Giro was first led by Australian Brett Lancaster, who won the race's opening prologue. He lost the lead the next day to Paolo Bettini, who gained the race lead three separate times before Savoldelli took over. Ivan Basso was the leader of the race for two days, before he lost the lead to Savoldelli who then held that lead until the race's conclusion.\n\nHaving previously won the general classification in 2002, Savoldelli became the nineteenth rider to repeat as winner of the Giro d'Italia. Amongst the other classifications that the race awarded, Paolo Bettini of the team won the points classification, Selle Italia Colombia rider José Rujano won the mountains classification, and Italian Stefano Zanini won the intergiro classification. finished as the winners of the \"Trofeo Fast Team\" classification, ranking each of the twenty-two teams contesting the race by lowest cumulative time. The other team classification, the \"Trofeo Super Team\" classification, where the teams' riders are awarded points for placing within the top twenty in each stage and the points are then totaled for each team was won by .\n\nTwenty-two teams were invited by the race organizers to participate in the 2005 edition of the Giro d'Italia. Twenty of the teams were UCI ProTour teams, while Ceramica Panaria-Navigare and Colombia-Selle Italia were wild card teams invited by the organizers. Each team sent a squad of nine riders, which meant that the race started with a peloton of 198 cyclists. From the riders that began the race, 153 made it to the finish in Milan.\n\nThe teams entering the race were:\n\nThe route for the 2005 Giro d'Italia was unveiled by race director Angelo Zomegnan on 23 January 2005 in Milan. It contained three time trial events, all of which were individual. The organizers divided the remaining eighteen stages into three categories: flat stages, medium mountain stages, and mountain stages. Ten of the stages were declared flat stages. Of the eight stages remaining, three stages were designated medium mountain stages and five were ranked as mountain stages. In the stages containing categorized climbs, four had summit finishes: stage 11, to Zoldo Alto; stage 13, to Urtijëi; stage 17, to Colle di Tenda; and stage 19, to Sestriere. The organizers chose to include two rest days. When compared to the previous year's race, the race was longer, contained the same amount of rest days and one more individual time trial event. In addition, both races contained a prologue to open the race.\n\nThe fifteenth was originally intended to be and to start in Livigno. However, due to very poor weather conditions the start was moved to Villa di Tirano, and the stage was shortened to . The route originally had the riders crossing the Forcola di Livigno, a mountain located outside of the original start in Livigno, but due to the bad weather at the base and top of the climb the organizers were forced to exclude the pass.\n\nThe Giro began with a prologue that navigated through the streets of Reggio Calabria. The event was won by Australian Brett Lancaster who won by a .289 second margin over the second placed rider Matteo Tosatto. After the last competing rider took the course, famed sprinter Mario Cipollini took the course for a final farewell after announcing his retirement ten days beforehand. The Giro's first stage came down to an uphill, bunch sprint that Paolo Bettini won. Along with the stage victory, Bettini took the overall lead of the race. The second stage ended in another sprint finish, which Robbie McEwen won and also saw him take the race lead. Stage 3 saw a breakaway go the distance as a group of fifty riders broke free about from the finish. Liquigas-Bianchi's Danilo Di Luca lunged ahead of Damiano Cunego to win the stage, while the race lead fell back into Bettini's hands. The fourth stage closed with a sprint finish that Italian Paolo Bettini won. However, Bettini was later disqualified after the judges saw that he caused fellow sprinter Baden Cooke to fall, which gave the stage victory to second-place finisher Luca Mazzanti.\n\nThe seventh stage saw a breakaway succeed again, as Liberty Seguros-Würth rider Koldo Gil took the downhill stage win. Danilo Di Luca regained the lead of the race as the time gaps widened due to the climb that was placed shortly before the finish. Stage eight was a individual time trial that was won by American David Zabriskie. Di Luca placed tenth overall and maintain the race leader's pink jersey, while the general classification contenders Ivan Basso and Paolo Savoldelli gained valuable seconds over Di Luca. Alessandro Petacchi won the next stage by means of a bunch sprint, while the general classification remained largely unaltered. Stage 10 took place after a rest day. The stage again came down to a bunch sprint that was won by Australian Robbie McEwen, who captured his second stage win of the Giro.\nStage 11 was the first big mountain stage of the 2005 Giro d'Italia and it began with a breakaway that was eventually swept after the first climb of the day. Ivan Basso attacked with remaining in the stage and only Paolo Savoldelli was able to keep pace with him. The two raced to the top of the Zoldo Alto and Savoldelli won the sprint to the line, while Basso claimed the race lead. The twelfth stage of the race was downhill after the lone categorized climb of the Passo san Pellegrino. The stage ultimately came down to a field sprint, which Alessandro Petacchi won. The Giro's thirteenth stage saw a breakaway succeed as Colombian Iván Parra beat out his fellow breakaway members for the stage win. Paolo Savoldelli claimed the overall lead after Ivan Basso lost over a minute as he was suffering from a gastric problem. The next stage, stage 14, contained the \"Cima Coppi\" of the 2005 Giro d'Italia, the Passo dello Stelvio, along with other climbs of lesser severity. Iván Parra struck again by winning the stage by almost two minutes over the second-place finisher. Ivan Basso lost even more time due to his illness, while general classification contenders Danilo Di Luca and Gilberto Simoni gained valuable seconds over the race leader Paolo Savoldelli.\n\nThe fifteenth stage's start was moved from Livigno to Villa di Tirano and the route was shortened by due to poor weather conditions on the stage's first scheduled mountain pass, the Forcola di Livigno. With the exclusion of the uphill earlier portion of the stage, the route was relatively flat which led to the stage ending in a bunch sprint that Fassa Bortolo's Alessandro Petacchi won. After the second rest day, the riders began stage sixteen of the Giro. A breakaway containing eighteen men got away from the peloton and stayed away for the length of the stage. Christophe Le Mével out-sprinted his fellow breakaway members to win the stage and earn his first professional victory. The race's seventeenth stage contained a summit finish on the Colle di Tenda. While on the final climb of the day, the race was headed by a lead group that contained the race leader Paolo Savoldelli and general classification favorites Ivan Basso and José Rujano. Basso slipped away with left to go in the climb and win the stage.\nStage 18 was an individual time trial that stretched Chieri to Turin. Team CSC's Ivan Basso won the stage by nine seconds over Russian Vladimir Karpets. The penultimate stage of the Giro featured a summit finish on the fabled Sestriere. The race leader Paolo Savoldelli was in trouble throughout the stage and his lead was in jeopardy. However, on the final climb of the Sestriere he received aid from two riders and made it to the finish two minutes after the stage winner José Rujano. Savoldelli's lead shrank to twenty-eight seconds over the second placed rider Gilberto Simoni. The twentieth and final stage of the 2005 Giro d'Italia came ended with a bunch sprint in the streets of Milan. Italian Alessandro Petacchi edged out Erik Zabel and Robert Förster to win the stage. Savoldelli won his second Giro d'Italia after crossing the finish in 24th place on the stage.\n\nSuccess in stages was limited to ten of the competing teams, six of which achieved multiple stage victories, while five individual riders won multiple stages. The riders that won more than once were Robbie McEwen in stages 2, 6, 10, Danilo di Luca in stages 3 and 5, Alessandro Petacchi in stages 9, 12, 15, and 20, and Iván Parra in stages 13 and 14, and Ivan Basso in stages 17 and 18. won two stages, with Brett Lancaster in the prologue and Luca Mazzanti in stage 4. won three stages with Robbie McEwen. won two stages with Danilo di Luca. won three stages, with David Zabriskie in the stage 8 time trial and two stages with Ivan Basso. won four stages with Alessandro Petacchi. won three stages, with Iván Parra in two stages and José Rujano in stage 19. , , , and each won one stage at the Giro d'Italia. Quick Step-Innergetic's Paolo Bettini won stage 1 by out-sprinting the rest of the field. Liberty Seguros-Würth rider Koldo Gil won stage 7 by means of a long breakaway. Discovery Channel's Paolo Savoldelli won stage 11 through a last second attack, as did Crédit Agricole rider Christophe Le Mével in stage 16.\n\nFour different jerseys were worn during the 2005 Giro d'Italia. The leader of the general classification – calculated by adding the stage finish times of each rider, and allowing time bonuses for the first three finishers on mass-start stages – wore a pink jersey. This classification is the most important of the race, and its winner is considered as the winner of the Giro.\n\nFor the points classification, which awarded a purple (or cyclamen) jersey to its leader, cyclists were given points for finishing a stage in the top 15; additional points could also be won in intermediate sprints. The green jersey was awarded to the mountains classification leader. In this ranking, points were won by reaching the summit of a climb ahead of other cyclists. Each climb was ranked as either first, second or third category, with more points available for higher category climbs. The \"Cima Coppi\", the race's highest point of elevation, awarded more points than the other first category climbs. \"The Cima Coppi\" for this Giro was the Passo dello Stelvio. The first rider to cross the Stelvio was Selle Italia Colombia's José Rujano. The intergiro classification was marked by a blue jersey. The calculation for the intergiro is similar to that of the general classification, in each stage there is a midway point that the riders pass through a point and where their time is stopped. As the race goes on, their times compiled and the person with the lowest time is the leader of the intergiro classification and wears the blue jersey. Although no jersey was awarded, there was also one classification for the teams, in which the stage finish times of the best three cyclists per team were added; the leading team was the one with the lowest total time.\n\nThere were also two classifications for the teams. The classification was the Trofeo Fast Team. In this classification, the times of the best three cyclists per team on each stage were added; the leading team was the team with the lowest total time; the Trofeo Super Team was a team points classification, with the top 20 placed riders on each stage earning points (20 for first place, 19 for second place and so on, down to a single point for 20th) for their team.\n\nThe rows in the following table correspond to the jerseys awarded after that stage was run.\n\nOther less well-known classifications, whose leaders did not receive a special jersey, were awarded during the Giro. Other awards included the Combativity classification, which was a compilation of points gained for position on crossing intermediate sprints, mountain passes and stage finishes. Venezuelan José Rujano won the most combative classification. The Azzurri d'Italia classification was based on finishing order, but points were awarded only to the top three finishers in each stage. Alessandro Petacchi won the Azzurri d'Italia classification. The \"Trofeo Fuga Piaggio\" classification rewarded riders who took part in a breakaway at the head of the field, each rider in an escape of ten or fewer riders getting one point for each kilometre that the group stayed clear. The classification was won by Sven Krauß. Teams were given penalty points for minor technical infringements. and were most successful in avoiding penalties, and so shared leadership of the Fair Play classification.\n"}
{"id": "1859810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859810", "title": "Rolling Rock Town Fair", "text": "Rolling Rock Town Fair\n\nThe Rolling Rock Town Fair was an annual alternative rock music festival and tour from 2000 to 2005 sponsored by Rolling Rock beer of Latrobe, Pennsylvania. The event was created and produced by Executive Producer, Andrew Cohen and Darin Wolf, then Director of Marketing for Rolling Rock.\n\nStarting on August 5, 2000, the event featured such groups as the Red Hot Chili Peppers, Moby, and Fuel. \n\nThe August 4, 2001 lineup featured the Stone Temple Pilots, Live, Deftones, Incubus, Staind, Oleander, Throe (Boston, MA), U.P.O., and Tantric. \n\nThe July 27, 2002 show included Godsmack, Outkast, Nickelback, P.O.D., Alien Ant Farm, Sevendust, Default, Injected, and Tommy Lee. Alien Ant Farm cancelled Rolling Rock Town Fair 2002 following their bus accident. Tommy Lee was the replacement for them. \n\nFor the July 26, 2003 show, the location was moved from the Westmoreland Fairgrounds in Mount Pleasant, Pennsylvania to Heinz Field in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and included Blink-182, Puddle of Mudd, 311, Def Leppard, Sum 41, Saliva and Trapt. \n\nIn 2004, the festival became a tour, with additional performances at non-traditional venues such as Suffolk Downs in Boston on June 12, Penn's Landing in Philadelphia on June 19, Seattle's King County Fairgrounds on June 26 and July 31 back at the Westmoreland Fairgrounds in Mount Pleasant, with performances by Velvet Revolver, Staind, N*E*R*D, Disturbed, the Crystal Method, Sevendust, Hoobastank, Three Days Grace, Finch, Throe (Boston, MA) and Finger Eleven. \n\nFor the August 6, 2005 show, the event was scaled back to its roots, with a sole performance in Western Pennsylvania at Jennerstown Speedway in Jennerstown, Pennsylvania. The event featured many Pennsylvania-based bands such as The Clarks, Live, Rusted Root, The Juliana Theory, and Bloodhound Gang.\n\nRolling Rock did not continue the event in 2006, after making a deal to sponsor a series of concerts by Steven Van Zandt.\n"}
{"id": "1859814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859814", "title": "Revolutionary Socialist Party (Marxist–Leninist)", "text": "Revolutionary Socialist Party (Marxist–Leninist)\n\nRevolutionary Socialist Party (Marxist–Leninist) (in Spanish: \" Partido Socialista Revolucionario (Marxista-Leninista)\", PSR(m-l)) was a political party in Peru founded in 1978 through a split in the Revolutionary Socialist Party. Its leaders included Antonio Aragón, Carlos Urrutia and Andrés Avelino Mar. It participated in the 1980 general elections on the lists of Popular Democratic Unity.\n"}
{"id": "1859819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859819", "title": "SONIA (interest rate)", "text": "SONIA (interest rate)\n\nSONIA (Sterling Over Night Index Average) is the effective reference for overnight indexed swaps for unsecured transactions in the Sterling market. The SONIA itself is a risk-free rate.\n\nIt was launched in March 1997 by the WMBA, and is endorsed by the British Bankers Association (BBA).\n\nThe Bank of England took on administration of rate in April 2016. Two years later, in April 2018, the rate underwent a number of reforms. In the same year efforts to promote SONIA as the standard Sterling interest rate benchmark for loans, derivatives and bonds were stepped up.\n\nOn each London business day, SONIA is measured as the trimmed mean, rounded to four decimal places, of interest rates paid on eligible sterling denominated deposit transactions.The trimmed mean is calculated as the volume-weighted mean rate, based on the central 50% of the volume-weighted distribution of rates.\n\nEligible transactions are:\n\n\nThe rate conventions are: annualised rate, act/365, four decimal places.\n\nIn 2018, SONIA (floating rate) bonds accounted for 20.7 per cent share of UK issuance compared to 48.1 per cent share of IBOR (floating rate) bonds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859820", "title": "Infant industry argument", "text": "Infant industry argument\n\nThe infant industry argument is an economic rationale for trade protectionism. The core of the argument is that nascent industries often do not have the economies of scale that their older competitors from other countries may have, and thus need to be protected until they can attain similar economies of scale. \n\nThe argument was first fully articulated by the first United States Secretary of the Treasury Alexander Hamilton in his 1790 Report on Manufactures. Hamilton professed that developing an industrial base in a country was impossible without protectionism because import duties are necessary to shelter domestic \"infant industries\" until they could achieve economies of scale. The argument was systematically developed by American political economist Daniel Raymond, and was later picked up by economist Friedrich List in his 1841 work \"The National System of Political Economy,\" following his exposure to the idea during his residence in the United States in the 1820s. \n\nList criticized Britain for advocating free trade to other countries given that Britain had obtained its economic supremacy through high tariffs and government subsidies: \"it is a very common clever device that when anyone has attained the summit of greatness, he kicks away the ladder by which he climbed up, in order to deprive others of the means of climbing up after him.\"\n\nInfant industry protection is controversial as a policy recommendation. As with the other economic rationales for protectionism, it is often abused by rent seeking interests. Even when infant industry protection is well–intentioned, it is difficult for governments to know which industries they should protect; \"infant\" industries may never \"grow up\" relative to \"adult\" foreign competitors. For example, during the 1980s Brazil enforced strict controls on the import of foreign computers in an effort to nurture its own \"infant\" computer industry. This industry never matured; the technological gap between Brazil and the rest of the world actually widened, while the protected industries merely copied low-end foreign computers and sold them at inflated prices. In addition, countries that put up barriers to imports will often face retaliatory barriers to their exports, potentially hurting the same industries that infant industry protection is intended to help.\n\nErnesto Zedillo, in his 2000 report to the UN Secretary-General, recommended \"legitimising limited, time-bound protection for certain industries by countries in the early stages of industrialisation\", arguing that \"however misguided the old model of blanket protection intended to nurture import substitute industries, it would be a mistake to go to the other extreme and deny developing countries the opportunity of actively nurturing the development of an industrial sector\".\n\nMany countries have successfully industrialized behind tariff barriers, including leading current advocates of neoliberal economics United States and Britain. For example, from 1816 through 1945, tariffs in the United States were among the highest in the world. According to Ha-Joon Chang, \"almost all of today's rich countries used tariff protection and subsidies to develop their industries\". \n\nSouth Korea and Taiwan are more recent examples of rapid industrialization and economic development with major government subsidies, foreign exchange controls, and high tariffs to protect selected industries.\n"}
{"id": "1859836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859836", "title": "Evolver (film)", "text": "Evolver (film)\n\nEvolver is a 1995 Mark Rosman horror/science fiction B-movie. It starred Ethan Embry, Cassidy Rae, Cindy Pickett and John de Lancie. William H. Macy voiced Evolver (and was credited as W.H. Macy). The movie was frequently aired in the early days of the Sci Fi Channel.\n\nTeenage computer whiz Kyle Baxter (Ethan Randall) participates in a virtual reality version of laser tag and is about to win a nationwide tournament, only to be disrupted by another player, a girl named Jamie. Despite his loss, he hacks into the company's system to make himself the winner of the prize: \"Evolver\" (voiced by William H. Macy), a robotic opponent armed with a compressed air gun, to compete against in a real-world version of laser tag. Whenever Evolver is defeated, he \"evolves\", becomes smarter, quicker and harder to beat (to simulate rising game difficulty). Kyle, his friend Zach, Jamie and his sister, Ali begin playing with Evolver, and easily pass the first level. As Evolver evolves, he develops a human-like competitiveness and obsession with winning. He replaces his \"ineffective\" default ammo - soft foam balls - with ball bearings from Kyle's room.\n\nAfter learning Evolver has recording capabilities, Kyle and Zach send Evolver into the girls locker room at their school. Discovering the robot, the girls push Evolver into the boys locker room. He switches to game mode and enters the boys locker room and sees the only occupant - Dwight, a bullying jock - and makes Dwight another opponent. Dwight throws Evolver against a wall, to which the robot reacts by shooting out one of Dwight's eyes and knocking him down a flight of stairs, killing him.\n\nAfter getting home, Evolver continues to absorb negativity from his surroundings, for example swearing and hostage-taking from TV. Evolver is defeated again in the second game and \"evolves\" up to the third round. Zach, wanting to get the disc recording Evolver's adventures in the locker room, takes Evolver to his house and tries to manually remove the disc. Evolver turns on after the disc is removed and begins to attack Zach. Trapping him in his garage, Evolver chases after Zach with a saw blade and then a small hatchet but ultimately crushes him while Zach hides under a car (raised on a jack). While making his way back to Kyle's house, Evolver wanders into an arcade where two marijuana smoking teens are playing the Evolver virtual game. He electrocutes and kills them both.\n\nKyle comes to see Zach being loaded into an ambulance. Worried about Evolver's increasing lethality, Kyle looks through its programming and sees a program titled S.W.O.R.D. (acronym for Strategic War-Oriented Robotic Device). He goes to Cybertronix, the company that built Evolver and the virtual reality game, and the creator, Russell Bennett (John de Lancie), promises to look through the disc Evolver recorded. The disc shows Evolver killing Dwight and the danger becomes clear to Bennett. Meanwhile, Kyle and Jamie sneak into a lab at Cybertronix. Looking into Evolver's past, they learn that he was originally meant to be an AI military robot designed to infiltrate enemy encampments, adapt to the situation and eliminate targets, but the project was terminated.\n\nAt home, Ali puts back in Evolver's battery (which was removed by Kyle after learning of Zach's accident) and starts playing with him alone. Evolver loads steak knives into his shooting arm and chases Ali into the backyard swimming pool, attempting to electrocute her while she is trapped. Kyle and Jamie return home and save Ali and Kyle defeats Evolver, only to kick him into the pool, shorting him out. Bennett and two other Cybertronix employees come to Kyle's house and take Evolver back to be dismantled. On the way though, Evolver kills Bennett and the Cybertronix technicians and escapes. He evolves one last time for the final level, charges up at a nearby power plant, and heads back to Kyle's house for one last battle.\n\nEvolver takes Kyle's mother and sister hostage, trapping them inside of a Laser-crafted Cage using a laser-gun, a kaleidoscope, and a super-charged battery. Seeing the wrecked Cybertronix van, Kyle and Jamie return home to find Evolver, now armed with a destructive new laser gun. Evolver plans to execute his hostages if Kyle does not win within 3 minutes. Kyle places a metal pan on his chest, confronts Evolver and feigns death when he is shot by Evolver. Jamie distracts Evolver and Kyle shoots it in the remaining targeting sensor. Defeated, Evolver becomes extremely confused and malfunctions allowing Kyle to beat Evolver with a baseball bat until it shuts down.\n\nAfter Kyle frees his mother and sister, Evolver re-activates again, now armed with only its arm and brute strength. As he prepares to kill Kyle to avoid losing, Kyle grabs the laser gun with the super-charged battery and shoots Evolver until it explodes. The family and Jamie go to the hospital as Cybertronix's CEO faces the press. The camera pans over to Ali's bedroom, to show Evolver's remains and a single glowing eye. The last scene shows Evolver's HUD screen reading out \"KILL NOT CONFIRMED\" before fading to static and blacking out.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859847", "title": "Atomic coherence", "text": "Atomic coherence\n\nIn physics, atomic coherence is the induced coherence between levels of a multi-level atomic system sometimes observed when it interacts with a coherent electromagnetic field.\n\nIf a coherent, narrow bandwidth laser is applied to a two-level system, the wave function will undergo Rabi flopping (Rabi oscillation) between the ground and excited states. At some point in time the system will undergo spontaneous decay and its wave function will collapse to the ground-state wave function. From there on, a new Rabi oscillation will start until the next spontaneous decay. Each spontaneous decay essentially changes the phase of the Rabi oscillation. If instead of single two-level system there is a large collection of identical two-level systems (like a lot of the same species atoms), then all of them will begin Rabi oscillation at the same time, and therefore all of them will be in phase with each other. But due to the spontaneous decay different atoms will collapse to their ground-state at different (and random) times and start a new Rabi oscillation. For this reason fewer and fewer atoms will be in-phase as time passes by. This is called \"decoherence\" (meaning individual systems, e.g. atoms, are no longer coherent with each other).\n\nAtomic coherence can involve more than two levels and its preparation more than a single laser.\n\nAn atomic coherence is essential in research on several effects, such as electromagnetically induced transparency (EIT), lasing without inversion (LWI), enhanced dispersion without absorption, Stimulated raman adiabatic passage (STIRAP) and nonlinear optical interaction with enhanced efficiency. Atomic coherence is useful to produce super radiant laser which has an extremely narrow linewidth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859848", "title": "American cockroach", "text": "American cockroach\n\nThe American cockroach (\"Periplaneta americana\") is the largest species of common cockroach, and often considered a pest. In certain regions of the U.S. it is colloquially known as the waterbug, though is not a true waterbug since it is not aquatic. It is also known as the ship cockroach, kakerlac, and Bombay canary. It is often misidentified as a palmetto bug.\n\nAmerican cockroaches are native to Africa and the Middle East. Despite their name, they are believed to have been introduced to the Americas only from the 17th century AD onwards as a result of human commercial patterns, including the Atlantic Slave Trade.\n\nDespite the name, none of the \"Periplaneta\" species is endemic to the Americas; \"P. americana\" was introduced to what is now the United States from Africa as early as 1625. They are now common in tropical climates because human activity has extended the insects' range of habitation, and are virtually cosmopolitan in distribution as a result of global commerce. American cockroaches are also found in the warm Mediterranean coast of Spain, as well as in southern Spain and southern Portugal (starting from Barcelona to the Algarve) and in the Canary Islands, where the winters are mild/warm and frost-free, and the summers are hot.\n\nCockroaches date back to the Carboniferous period. They are thought to have emerged on the supercontinent Pangaea, or on Gondwana, the daughter continent of Pangaea. The cockroach made many adaptations over the years to be able to survive the major die-offs to which many species succumbed. However, like all the extant species, the American cockroach has probably evolved in the last few millions to thousands of years (during the Quaternary) and is a fully modern organism.\n\nOf all common cockroach species, the American cockroach has the largest body size; molts 6–14 times (mostly 13 times) before metamorphosis; and has the longest lifecycle, up to about 700 days.\n\nIt has an average length around and is about tall. They are reddish brown and have a yellowish margin on the pronotum, the body region behind the head. Immature cockroaches resemble adults except they are wingless.\n\nThe cockroach is divided into three sections; the body is flattened and broadly oval, with a shield-like pronotum covering its head. A pronotum is a plate-like structure that covers all or part of the dorsal surface of the thorax of certain insects. They also have chewing mouth parts, long, segmented antennae, and leathery fore wings with delicate hind wings. The third section of the cockroach is the abdomen.\n\nThe insect can travel quickly, often darting out of sight when a threat is perceived, and can fit into small cracks and under doors despite its fairly large size. It is considered one of the fastest running insects.\n\nIn an experiment, a \"P. americana\" registered a record speed of , about 50 body lengths per second, which would be comparable to a human running at .\n\nIt has a pair of large compound eyes, each having over 2000 individual lenses (ommatidia, hexagonal apertures which provide a kind of vision known as the mosaic vision with more sensitivity but less resolution, being common during night, hence called nocturnal vision.) It is a very active night insect that shuns light.\n\nAmerican cockroach nymphs are capable of limb regeneration.\n\nThe American cockroach shows a characteristic insect morphology with its body bearing divisions as head, trunk, and abdomen. The trunk, or thorax, is divisible into prothorax, mesothorax and metathorax. Each thoracic segment gives rise to a pair of walking appendages (known as cursorial legs). The organism bears two pairs of wings. The fore wings, known as tegmina, arise from mesothorax and are dark and opaque. The hind wings arise from the metathorax and are used in flight, though cockroaches rarely resort to flight. The abdomen is divisible into 10 segments, each of which is surrounded by chitinous exoskeleton plates called sclerites, including dorsal tergites, ventral sternites, and lateral pleurites.\n\nAmerican cockroaches have three developmental stages: egg, nymph, and adult. Females produce an egg case (ootheca) which protrudes from the tip of the abdomen. On average, females produce 9–10 oothecae, although they can sometimes produce as many as 90. After about two days, the egg cases are placed on a surface in a safe location. Egg cases are about long, brown, and purse-shaped. Immature cockroaches emerge from egg cases in 6–8 weeks and require 6–12 months to mature. After hatching, the nymphs feed and undergo a series of 13 moultings (or ecdysis). Adult cockroaches can live up to an additional year, during which females produce an average of 150 young. The American cockroach reproductive cycle can last up to 600 days; it is capable of reproduction through facultative parthenogenesis.\n\nThe American cockroach genome is the second-largest insect genome on record, after \"Locusta migratoria\". Around 60% of its genome is composed of repeat elements. Around 90% of the genome can be found in other members of Blattodea. Genetically, the American cockroach is closer to two termite species, \"Zootermopsis nevadensis\" and \"Macrotermes natalensis\", than it is to the German cockroach. The genome codes for a large number of chemoreceptor families, including 522 taste receptors and 154 olfactory receptors. The 522 taste receptors comprise the largest number found among insects for which genomes have been sequenced. About 329 of the taste receptors are involved in bitter taste perception. These traits, along with enlarged groups of genes relating to detoxification, the immune system, and growth and reproduction, are believed to be part of the reasons behind the cockroach's ability to adapt to human living spaces.\n\nAmerican cockroaches are omnivorous and opportunistic feeders that eat materials such as cheese, beer, tea, leather, bakery products, starch in book bindings, manuscripts, glue, hair, flakes of dried skin, dead animals, plant materials, soiled clothing, and glossy paper with starch sizing. They are particularly fond of fermenting foods. They have also been observed to feed upon dead or wounded cockroaches of their own or other species.\n\nAmerican cockroaches generally live in moist areas but can survive in dry areas if they have access to water. They prefer high temperatures around and do not tolerate low temperatures. These cockroaches are common in basements, crawl spaces, cracks and crevices of porches, foundations, and walkways adjacent to buildings. In residential areas outside the tropics, these cockroaches live in basements and sewers and may move outdoors into yards during warm weather.\n\nThe odorous secretions produced by American cockroaches can alter the flavor of food. Also, if populations of cockroaches are high, a strong concentration of this odorous secretion can be present. Cockroaches can pick up disease-causing bacteria, such as \"Salmonella\", on their legs and later deposit them on foods and cause food poisoning or infection if they walk on the food. House dust containing cockroach feces and body parts can trigger allergic reactions and asthma in certain individuals.\n\nIn cold climates, these cockroaches may move indoors when the weather turns cold, seeking warmer environments and food. Cockroaches may enter houses through sewer connections, under doors, or around plumbing, air ducts, or other openings in the foundation. Cockroach populations may be controlled through the use of insecticides. Covering any cracks or crevices through which cockroaches may enter and cleaning any spills or messes that have been made is beneficial, so cockroaches are not able to enter and are not attracted to the food source. Another way to prevent an infestation of cockroaches is to thoroughly check any material brought inside. Cockroaches and egg cases can be hidden inside or on furniture, in boxes, suitcases, grocery bags, etc.\n\nThe American cockroach has been used as an ingredient in traditional Chinese medicine, with references to its usage in the \"Compendium of Materia Medica\" and \"Shennong Ben Cao Jing\". In China, an ethanol extract of the American cockroach, \"kang fu xin ye\", is used as a prescribed drug for wound healing and tissue repair.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859855", "title": "The Apprentice (American season 5)", "text": "The Apprentice (American season 5)\n\nThe Apprentice 5 is the fifth season of \"The Apprentice\", with Donald Trump as the executive producer and host. Applications were available online (as in previous seasons) and filming occurred in the fall of 2005. Sean Yazbeck was named the winner and hired by Donald Trump as the new Apprentice during the season finale. Lee Bienstock, the runner-up to Yazbeck, proved to be very competitive and was hired outside of television a few months later.\n\nThis season of the show was the first to not rank in the Top 50 according to Nielsen ratings and the first to garner less than 10 million viewers on average; it ranked #51 with an average of 9.73 million viewers. This was the last season to have George H. Ross and Carolyn Kepcher as main boardroom judges, although Ross's role was largely taken over by Bill Rancic in this season. The show moved to Los Angeles, California the following season and Donald Trump's children became the most prominent judges after him.\n\n\"The Apprentice 5\" on Monday February 27, 2006, right after the new hit game show \"Deal or No Deal\". NBC, facing a ratings slump, opted to put future seasons of the show on Monday nights (as opposed to its past Thursday 9 pm ET slot). The network hoped to build the show's audience by making this move, as the program had witnessed a fairly substantial erosion in ratings since \"The Apprentice 1\". However, the show faced tough competition with the Fox's fifth season of \"24\". The finale for \"The Apprentice 5\" took place in Los Angeles on June 5, 2006. Season five's finale was the lowest rated ever, down 23% from season four and down 28% from season three's final episode (in the important 18–49 demographic).\n\n\"The Apprentice 5\" marked the debut of Donald Trump's children, Ivanka Trump and Donald Trump, Jr. as boardroom judges when either George and/or Carolyn were unavailable. Jack McConnell, the First Minister of Scotland, makes an appearance in one of the episodes.\n\nFor the first time in \"Apprentice\" history, all episodes of this season (including the Clipshow with never-seen-before footage) could be obtained at iTunes for indefinite viewing after the episode has aired.\n\nThis is the first season where not all of the candidates were exclusively American; this season contained cast members that were originally from Uzbekistan and the United Kingdom.\n\nAs with the previous season of the show, Trump hand-picked the candidates. Furthermore, Trump personally selected Tarek and Allie to be the very first project managers and to draft their own teams before the first task is issued. This is the first time in the history of \"The Apprentice\" that the teams were not formed by a certain set of characteristics, such as gender (Seasons 1, 2, 4) or educational status (Season 3).\n\nBecause this process was conducted after only preliminary introductions, some reasoning for certain selections had been somewhat arbitrary—such as Tarek picking Dan because he was a father, or Allie picking Tammy because she had the qualities of \"a real tiger\". For the first time since the original season of the show, the successful project managers would \"not\" exempt from firing the next week, therefore everyone had to do a satisfactory job in order to be safe.\n\nUsing alternate selections, one at a time, both of them picked their respective teams in the following order:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859870", "title": "Eilean Chathastail", "text": "Eilean Chathastail\n\nEilean Chathastail (Eng: \"Castle Island\") is one of the Small Isles in the Inner Hebrides of Scotland.\n\nEilean Chathastail protects the only harbour on Eigg at Galmisdale. It is roughly in length and lies only off the south-east coast of the island of Eigg. Eigg lighthouse was built on the island in 1906 by brothers David A. and Charles Alexander Stevenson.\n\nIn July 1884 the geologist and writer Hugh Miller arrived at the Eilean Chathastail anchorage on board the yacht \"Betsey\". He had just begun his journey at Tobermory and he produced a diary of his travels in the Hebrides for the newspaper \"Witness\", of which he was the editor. His contributions were later collated and published as \"The Cruise of the Betsey\" in 1856.\n\nHe wrote that: \"We passed the Isle of Muck, with its one low hill; saw the pyramidal mountains of Rum looming tall in the offing; and then, running along the Isle of Eigg, with its colossal Scuir rising between us and the sky, as if it were a piece of Babylonian wall, or the great wall of China, only vastly larger, set down on the ridge of a mountain, we entered the channel which separates the isle from one of its dependencies, Eilean Chathastail, and cast anchor in the tideway.\"\n\nRobert Lawrie Thomson, a former laird of Eigg, is buried at the southern end of Eilean Chathastail. This is marked by a burial enclosure on Maol an Eilean, the island's highest point.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859873", "title": "Pippa Funnell", "text": "Pippa Funnell\n\nPhilippa Rachel \"Pippa\" Funnell MBE (née Nolan, 7 October 1968) is an equestrian sportswoman who competes in eventing. In 2003, she became the first person to win the Rolex Grand Slam of Eventing (consecutive wins at Rolex Kentucky, Badminton and Burghley). She also won Badminton in 2002 and 2005. At the European Championships, she has won two Individual golds (1999–2001) and three team golds (1999–2003). She is a three-time Olympic medallist, winning team silver in 2000 and 2004, and an individual bronze in 2004. She also competed at the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nPippa Funnell was born in Crowborough, East Sussex on 7 October 1968 to Jenny and George Nolan. She grew up in Mark Cross and went to the Mark Cross CE primary school. She attended the independent boarding school Wadhurst College on Mayfield Lane in Wadhurst. Aged 16, she persuaded her parents to allow her to leave school, after which she based herself with Ruth McMullin.\n\nFunnell lives in Ockley, Surrey with her husband, show jumper William Funnell. The couple married in Uckfield in December 1993. Her horses have included Supreme Rock, Primmore's Pride, Sir Barnaby, Bits and Pieces, Walk on Star, and Ensign.\n\nFunnell was European Young Rider Champion in 1987 after successfully competing on Sir Barnaby at Bialy Bor, Poland. Despite a successful career as a junior and young rider, she at first struggled to establish herself as a senior international and by her own admission suffered from nerves that were threatening to ruin her career. She began receiving help from sports psychologist Nicky Heath.\n\nIn 1999, Funnell became European Champion at Luhmühlen riding Supreme Rock and again on the same horse in 2001 at Pau (\"Les Etoiles de Pau\" – France). She was a member of the British teams that won silver at the Sydney Olympics in 2000, bronze at the World Equestrian Games in 2002 both with Supreme Rock, and silver again at the Athens Olympics of 2004, this time with Primmore`s Pride. In addition, Funnell won the individual bronze medal at Athens. (She competed at the Athens Olympics as 'Philippa' rather than 'Pippa' as 'Pipa' in Greek is slang for a sexual act.)\n\nIn 2003, Funnell became the first rider ever to complete the Rolex Grand Slam of Eventing, by adding the Burghley title to her victories earlier in the year at Kentucky and Badminton, to earn a $250,000 bonus from Rolex. The Kentucky and Burghley victories were on Primmore's Pride, while the Badminton victory was on Supreme Rock. As of 2017, she remains one of only two riders to have won the Grand Slam. As a result of her achievements, she was voted Sunday Times Sportswoman of the Year 2003 and was in the top five of the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Awards. She then went to Punchestown in Ireland to defend the individual European title that she had won in 1999 and 2001, winning a bronze medal with the inexperienced Walk On Star and helping the British team to win their fifth successive team title. She also finished the year as the number one ranked rider in the world.\n\nIn total Funnell has won the Badminton Horse Trials three times: 2002, 2003 and 2005. She has won both the Blenheim venue and Windsor Horse Trials four times as well, the only rider yet to do so. With Funnell as rider, Primmore's Pride became the 1st horse to win all three major four star titles - Kentucky & Burghley in 2003 and Badminton in 2005 - thus becoming the 1st horse to win its own Grand Slam.\n\nAfter winning Badminton in 2005, Funnell did not win an international event for five years. Several of her top horses, such as Supreme Rock, Primmore’s Pride, Viceroy, Walk on Star, Cornerman and Jurassic Rising reached the end of their careers and were retired. With Ensign, she finished ninth at the 2005 Europeans. The combination were placed on the shortlist for the 2008 Olympics following a 2nd place at Pau CCI**** in late 2007. A fall at Badminton in 2008 put paid to them being picked.\n\nIn 2010, Funnell won her first international event for five years in the CCI3* at Bramham International horse trials on her upcoming horse Redesigned. They went on to finish 5th as an individual at the 2010 World Equestrian Games. In 2011, she won Barbary CIC3* on Billy Llandretti. In 2013, she won Tattersalls CCI3* with another upcoming horse, Billy Beware, who finished 6th at his first 4* event at Badminton Horse Trials 2014. This pairing were picked for the 2014 World Equestrian Games but injury unfortunately ruled them out. In May 2015, she won her third Chatsworth CIC 3* title aboard Sandman7. On 13 September 2015, Funnell won her 1st European team medal in 12 years helping GB win Team Silver at Blair Castle aboard Sandman 7. Since 2010, her horses have included Redesigned, Billy Beware, Billy the Biz, Billy Llandretti, Mirage D`Elle, Billy Cuckoo and Sandman7. \n\nAt the Rio 2016 Summer Olympics, riding Billy the Biz, Funnell was part of the British team that finished fifth. Her individual placement was 26th. \n\nFunnell won the 2019 Burghley Horse Trials, riding MGH Grafton Street, having led from day one.\n\nFunnell was made an MBE in the Queen's 2005 Birthday Honours for services to equestrian sport.\n\nFunnell has appeared on DVDs produced by Equestrian Vision, including \"Pippa Funnell, Road to the Top\" and \"The Funnell Factor\", and in 2005 wrote her story in \"Pippa Funnell: The Autobiography\".\n\nUbisoft has released a series of horse-themed videogames starring Funnell. These include \"Pippa Funnell\" for the Nintendo DS and Game Boy Advance, \"Pippa Funnell: Stable Adventure\" for the Game Boy Advance, and the PC games \"Pippa Funnell: The Stud Farm Inheritance\", \"\" (also for PlayStation 2), \"Pippa Funnell 3: The Golden Stirrups Challenge\" (more commonly known as \"Horsez\"), and \"Pippa Funnell 4: Secrets of the Ranch\". \"Pippa Funnell: Ranch Rescue\" was released in 2007 on the PlayStation 2 and Nintendo Wii.\n\nFunnell is also the author of a series of children's books called \"Tilly's Pony Tails\", published by Orion Children’s Books in the United Kingdom. The first two books in the series, \"Magic Spirit\" and \"Red Admiral\" were first published in May 2009. The series has now been extended to eighteen titles in all. The first four titles have also been recorded as unabridged audiobooks, read by sports presenter Clare Balding. The central character, Tilly Redbrow, is an adopted child, who is passionate about everything to do with horses and ponies. Each title in the series tells a new story about Tilly’s adventures with horses and ponies. As well as the fictional story, each title also contains a tips section with expert advice from Funnell on all aspects of horses and ponies.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859879", "title": "Ahmed Shawqi", "text": "Ahmed Shawqi\n\nAhmed Shawqi (also written Chawki; , , ; 1868–1932), nicknamed the Prince of Poets ( \"Amīr al-Shu‘arā’\"), was one of the greatest Arabic poets laureate, an Egyptian poet and dramatist who pioneered the modern Egyptian literary movement, most notably introducing the genre of poetic epics to the Arabic literary tradition.\n\nRaised in a wealthy family of mixed Turkish, Arab, Circassian, Kurdish, and Greek roots his family was prominent and well-connected with the court of the Khedive of Egypt. Upon graduating from high school, he attended law school, obtaining a degree in translation. Shawqi was then offered a job in the court of the Khedive Abbas II, who was the khedive of Egypt, which he immediately accepted.\n\nAfter a year working in the court of the Khedive, Shawqi was sent to continue his studies in Law at the Universities of Montpellier and Paris for three years. While in France, he was heavily influenced by the works of French playwrights, most notably Molière and Racine. He returned to Egypt in 1894, and remained a prominent member of Arab literary culture until the British forced him into exile in southern Spain, Andalusia, in 1914.\nShawqi remained there until 1920, when he returned to Egypt. In 1927 he was crowned by his peers \"Amir al-Sho’araa’\" (literally, \"the Prince of Poets\") in recognition of his considerable contributions to the literary field.\n\nHe used to live in ‘Karmet Ibn Hani’ or Ibn Hani’s Vineyard at Al-Matariyyah area near the palace of the Khedive Abbas II at Saray El-Qobba until he was exiled. After returning to Egypt he built a new house at Giza which he named the new Karmet Ibn Hani. He met Mohammed Abdel Wahab, and introduced him for the first time to art, making him his protégé as he gave him a suite in his house. The house later on became Ahmed Shawki Museum and Mohammed Abdel Wahab became one of the most famous Egyptian composers.\n\nShawqi’s work can be categorized into three main periods during his career. The first coincides with the period during which he occupied a position at the court of the Khedive, consisting of eulogies to the Khedive: praising him or supporting his policy. The second comprised the period of his exile in Spain. During this period, his feeling of nostalgia and sense of alienation directed his poetic talent to patriotic poems on Egypt as well as the Arab world and panarabism. The third stage occurred after his return from exile, during that period he became preoccupied with the glorious history of Ancient Egypt and Islam. This was the period during which he wrote his religious poems, in praise of the Prophet Muhammad. The maturation of his poetic style was also reflected in his plays, the most notable of which were published during this period.\n\nShawqi was the first in modern Arabic literature to write poetic plays. He wrote five tragedies:\n\nand two comedies:\n\nin addition to a prose play: \"the Princess of Andalusia\".\n\nHe also wrote chapters of prose, collected under the title \"The Markets of Gold\".\n\nKarmat Ibn Hani', Ahmed Shawqi's home in Giza, was converted into the Ahmed Shawki Museum on 17 June 1977.\n\nShawqi's work is regularly celebrated at the El Sawy Culture Wheel, a cultural center in Cairo.\n\nThe web search engine company Google uploaded a Google Doodle, a limited-time variant of their logo, to memorialize Shawki in advance of what would have been his 142nd birthday on 16 October 2010. The art featured a quote from Shawki's poetry in place of the \"oo\" in the Google logo, which in English translates to:\n\nMy homeland is always in my mind even if I were in paradise.\n\nThere are two roads named for Ahmed Shawqi in Giza: Ahmed Shawqi Street, where the Ahmed Shawki Museum is located; and Ahmed Shawqi Corridor. A number of statues have been created in the likeness of Shawki, including one on Dokki Street in Giza and another at the Villa Borghese in Rome.\n\nShawqi's granddaughter Ikbal El-Alailly was a central figure in Egypt's surrealist poetry movement. An Egyptian postage stamp was issued in honour of Shawqi on 14 October 1957 to commemorate 25 years since his death. Many books have been written on the life of Ahmed Shawqi.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859882", "title": "Vibrio parahaemolyticus", "text": "Vibrio parahaemolyticus\n\nVibrio parahaemolyticus is a curved, rod-shaped, Gram-negative bacterium found in brackish, saltwater, which, when ingested, causes gastrointestinal illness in humans. \"V. parahaemolyticus\" is oxidase positive, facultatively aerobic, and does not form spores. Like other members of the genus \"Vibrio\", this species is motile, with a single, polar flagellum.\n\nWhile infection can occur by the fecal-oral route, ingestion of bacteria in raw or undercooked seafood, usually oysters, is the predominant cause of the acute gastroenteritis caused by \"V. parahaemolyticus\". Wound infections also occur, but are less common than seafood-borne disease. The disease mechanism of \"V. parahaemolyticus\" infections has not been fully elucidated.\n\nClinical isolates usually possess a pathogenicity island (PAI) on the second chromosome. The PAI can be acquired by horizontal gene transfer and contains genes for several virulence factors. Two fully sequenced variants exist of the \"V. parahaemolyticus\" PAI with distinctly different lineages. Each PAI variant contains a genetically-distinct Type III Secretion System (T3SS), which is capable of injecting virulence proteins into host cells to disrupt host cell functions or cause cell death by apoptosis. The two known T3SS variants on \"V. parahaemolyticus\" chromosome 2 are known as T3SS2α and T3SS2β. These variants correspond to the two known PAI variants.\nAside from the T3SS, two genes encoding well-characterized virulence proteins are typically found on the PAI, the thermostable direct hemolysin gene (\"tdh\") and/or the \"tdh\"-related hemolysin gene (\"trh\"). Strains possessing one or both of these hemolysins exhibit beta-hemolysis on blood agar plates. A distinct correlation seems to exist between presence of \"tdh\", \"trh\", and the two known T3SS variants: observations have shown T3SS2α correlating with \"tdh\"+/\"trh\"- strains, while T3SS2β correlates with \"tdh\"-/\"trh\"+ strains.\n\nThe incubation period of about 24 hours is followed by explosive, watery or bloody diarrhea accompanied by nausea, vomiting, abdominal cramps, and sometimes fever. Symptoms typically resolve within 72 hours, but can persist for up to 10 days in immunocompromised individuals. As the vast majority of cases of \"V. parahaemolyticus\" food infection are self-limiting, treatment is not typically necessary. In severe cases, fluid and electrolyte replacement is indicated.\n\nOutbreaks tend to be concentrated along coastal regions during the summer and early fall when higher water temperatures favor higher levels of bacteria. Seafood most often implicated includes squid, mackerel, tuna, sardines, crab, conch, shrimp, and bivalves, such as oysters and clams. In the Northeast United States, there is an increasing incidence of illness due to oysters contaminated with \"V. parahaemolyticus\", which is associated with warmer waters from the Gulf of Mexico moving northward.\n\nAdditionally, swimming or working in affected areas can lead to infections of the eyes, ears, or open cuts and wounds. Following Hurricane Katrina, 22 wounds were infected with \"Vibrio\", three of which were caused by \"V. parahaemolyticus\", and two of these led to death.\n\nHosts of \"V. parahaemolyticus\" include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1859894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859894", "title": "Olefin metathesis", "text": "Olefin metathesis\n\nOlefin metathesis is an organic reaction that entails the redistribution of fragments of alkenes (olefins) by the scission and regeneration of carbon-carbon double bonds. Because of the relative simplicity of olefin metathesis, it often creates fewer undesired by-products and hazardous wastes than alternative organic reactions. For their elucidation of the reaction mechanism and their discovery of a variety of highly active catalysts, Yves Chauvin, Robert H. Grubbs, and Richard R. Schrock were collectively awarded the 2005 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.\n\nThe reaction requires metal catalysts. Most commercially important processes employ heterogeneous catalysts. The heterogeneous catalysts are often prepared by in-situ activation of a metal halides (MCl) using organoaluminium or organotin compounds, e.g. combining MCl–EtAlCl. A typical catalyst support is alumina. Commercial catalysts are often based on molybdenum and ruthenium. Well-defined organometallic compounds have mainly been investigated for small-scale reactions or in academic research. The homogeneous catalysts are often classified as Schrock catalysts and Grubbs catalysts. Schrock catalysts feature molybdenum(VI)- and tungsten(VI)-based centers supported by alkoxide and imido ligands.\n\nGrubbs catalysts, on the other hand, are ruthenium(II) carbenoid complexes. Many variations of Grubbs catalysts are known. Some have been modified with a chelating isopropoxybenzylidene ligand to form the related Hoveyda–Grubbs catalyst.\n\nOlefin metathesis has several industrial applications. Almost all commercial applications employ heterogeneous catalysts using catalysts developed well before the Nobel-Prize winning work on homogeneous complexes. Representative processes include:\n\nMolecular catalysts have been explored for the preparation of a variety of potential applications. the manufacturing of high-strength materials, the preparation of cancer-targeting nanoparticles, and the conversion of renewable plant-based feedstocks into hair and skin care products.\n\nSome important classes of olefin metathesis include:\n\nHérisson and Chauvin first proposed the widely accepted mechanism of transition metal alkene metathesis. The direct [2+2] cycloaddition of two alkenes is formally symmetry forbidden and thus has a high activation energy. The Chauvin mechanism involves the [2+2] cycloaddition of an alkene double bond to a transition metal alkylidene to form a metallacyclobutane intermediate. The metallacyclobutane produced can then cycloeliminate to give either the original species or a new alkene and alkylidene. Interaction with the d-orbitals on the metal catalyst lowers the activation energy enough that the reaction can proceed rapidly at modest temperatures.\nOlefin metathesis involves little change in enthalpy for unstrained alkenes. Product distributions are determined instead by le Chatelier's Principle, i.e. entropy.\n\nCross metathesis and ring-closing metathesis are driven by the entropically favored evolution of ethylene or propylene, which can be removed from the system because they are gases. Because of this CM and RCM reactions often use alpha-olefins. The reverse reaction of CM of two alpha-olefins, ethenolysis, can be favored but requires high pressures of ethylene to increase ethylene concentration in solution. The reverse reaction of RCM, ring-opening metathesis, can likewise be favored by a large excess of an alpha-olefin, often styrene. Ring-opening metathesis usually involves a strained alkene (often a norbornene) and the release of ring strain drives the reaction. Ring-closing metathesis, conversely, usually involves the formation of a five- or six-membered ring, which is enthalpically favorable; although these reactions tend to also evolve ethylene, as previously discussed. RCM has been used to close larger macrocycles, in which case the reaction may be kinetically controlled by running the reaction at high dilutions. The same substrates that undergo RCM can undergo acyclic diene metathesis, with ADMET favored at high concentrations. The Thorpe–Ingold effect may also be exploited to improve both reaction rates and product selectivity.\n\nCross-metathesis is synthetically equivalent to (and has replaced) a procedure of ozonolysis of an alkene to two ketone fragments followed by the reaction of one of them with a Wittig reagent.\n\n\"Olefin metathesis is a child of industry and, as with many catalytic processes, it was discovered by accident.\"\nAs part of ongoing work in what would later become known as Ziegler–Natta catalysis Karl Ziegler discovered the conversion of ethylene into 1-butene instead of a saturated long-chain hydrocarbon (see nickel effect).\n\nIn 1960 a Du Pont research group polymerized norbornene to polynorbornene using \"lithium aluminum tetraheptyl\" and titanium tetrachloride (a patent by this company on this topic dates back to 1955),\n\na reaction then classified as a so-called coordination polymerization. According to the then proposed reaction mechanism a RTiX titanium intermediate first coordinates to the double bond in a pi complex. The second step then is a concerted SNi reaction breaking a CC bond and forming a new alkylidene-titanium bond; the process then repeats itself with a second monomer:\n\nOnly much later the polynorbornene was going to be produced through ring opening metathesis polymerisation. The DuPont work was led by Herbert S. Eleuterio. Giulio Natta in 1964 also observed the formation of an unsaturated polymer when polymerizing cyclopentene with tungsten and molybdenum halides.\nIn a third development leading up to olefin metathesis, researchers at Phillips Petroleum Company in 1964 described olefin disproportionation with catalysts molybdenum hexacarbonyl, tungsten hexacarbonyl, and molybdenum oxide supported on alumina for example converting propylene to an equal mixture of ethylene and 2-butene for which they proposed a reaction mechanism involving a cyclobutane (they called it a quasicyclobutane) – metal complex:\n\nThis particular mechanism is symmetry forbidden based on the Woodward–Hoffmann rules first formulated two years earlier. Cyclobutanes have also never been identified in metathesis reactions, which is another reason why it was quickly abandoned.\n\nThen in 1967 researchers at the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company described a novel catalyst system for the metathesis of 2-pentene based on tungsten hexachloride, ethanol, and the organoaluminum compound EtAlMe. The researchers proposed a name for this reaction type: olefin metathesis. Formerly the reaction had been called \"olefin disproportionation.\"\n\nIn this reaction 2-pentene forms a rapid (a matter of seconds) chemical equilibrium with 2-butene and 3-hexene. No double bond migrations are observed; the reaction can be started with the butene and hexene as well and the reaction can be stopped by addition of methanol.\n\nThe Goodyear group demonstrated that the reaction of regular 2-butene with its all-deuterated isotopologue yielded CHD with deuterium evenly distributed. In this way they were able to differentiate between a transalkylidenation mechanism and a transalkylation mechanism (ruled out):\n\nIn 1971 Chauvin proposed a four-membered metallacycle intermediate to explain the statistical distribution of products found in certain metathesis reactions. This mechanism is today considered the actual mechanism taking place in olefin metathesis.\n\nChauvin's experimental evidence was based on the reaction of cyclopentene and 2-pentene with the homogeneous catalyst tungsten(VI) oxytetrachloride and tetrabutyltin:\n\nThe three principal products C9, C10 and C11 are found in a 1:2:1 regardless of conversion. The same ratio is found with the higher oligomers. Chauvin also explained how the carbene forms in the first place: by alpha-hydride elimination from a carbon metal single bond. For example, propylene (C3) forms in a reaction of 2-butene (C4) with tungsten hexachloride and tetramethyltin (C1).\n\nIn the same year Pettit who synthesised cyclobutadiene a few years earlier independently came up with a competing mechanism. It consisted of a tetramethylene intermediate with sp hybridized carbon atoms linked to a central metal atom with multiple three-center two-electron bonds.\n\nExperimental support offered by Pettit for this mechanism was based on an observed reaction inhibition by carbon monoxide in certain metathesis reactions of 4-nonene with a tungsten metal carbonyl\n\nRobert H. Grubbs got involved in metathesis in 1972 and also proposed a metallacycle intermediate but one with four carbon atoms in the ring. The group he worked in reacted 1,4-dilithiobutane with tungsten hexachloride in an attempt to directly produce a cyclomethylenemetallacycle producing an intermediate, which yielded products identical with those produced by the intermediate in the olefin metathesis reaction. This mechanism is pairwise:\n\nIn 1973 Grubbs found further evidence for this mechanism by isolating one such metallacycle not with tungsten but with platinum by reaction of the dilithiobutane with \"cis-bis(triphenylphosphine)dichloroplatinum(II)\"\n\nIn 1975 Katz also arrived at a metallacyclobutane intermediate consistent with the one proposed by Chauvin He reacted a mixture of cyclooctene, 2-butene and 4-octene with a molybdenum catalyst and observed that the unsymmetrical C14 hydrocarbon reaction product is present right from the start at low conversion.\n\nIn any of the pairwise mechanisms with olefin pairing as rate-determining step this compound, a secondary reaction product of C12 with C6, would form well after formation of the two primary reaction products C12 and C16.\n\nIn 1974 Casey was the first to implement carbenes into the metathesis reaction mechanism:\n\nGrubbs in 1976 provided evidence against his own updated pairwise mechanism:\n\nwith a 5-membered cycle in another round of isotope labeling studies in favor of the 4-membered cycle Chauvin mechanism:\n\nIn this reaction the ethylene product distribution (d,d,d) at low conversion was found to be consistent with the carbene mechanism. On the other hand, Grubbs did not rule out the possibility of a tetramethylene intermediate.\n\nThe first practical metathesis system was introduced in 1978 by Tebbe based on the (what later became known as the) Tebbe reagent. In a model reaction isotopically labeled carbon atoms in isobutene and methylenecyclohexane switched places:\n\nThe Grubbs group then isolated the proposed metallacyclobutane intermediate in 1980 also with this reagent together with 3-methyl-1-butene:\n\nThey isolated a similar compound in the total synthesis of capnellene in 1986:\n\nIn that same year the Grubbs group proved that metathesis polymerization of norbornene by Tebbe's reagent is a living polymerization system and a year later Grubbs and Schrock co-published an article describing living polymerization with a tungsten carbene complex While Schrock focussed his research on tungsten and molybdenum catalysts for olefin metathesis, Grubbs started the development of catalysts based on ruthenium, which proved to be less sensitive to oxygen and water and therefore more functional group tolerant.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s various groups reported the ring-opening polymerization of norbornene catalyzed by hydrated trichlorides of ruthenium and other late transition metals in polar, protic solvents. This prompted Robert H. Grubbs and coworkers to search for well-defined, functional group tolerant catalysts based on ruthenium. The Grubbs group successfully polymerized the 7-oxo norbornene derivative using ruthenium trichloride, osmium trichloride as well as tungsten alkylidenes. They identified a Ru(II) carbene as an effective metal center and in 1992 published the first well-defined, ruthenium-based olefin metathesis catalyst, (PPh)ClRu=CHCH=CPh:\n\nThe corresponding tricyclohexylphosphine complex (PCy)ClRu=CHCH=CPh was also shown to be active. This work culminated in the now commercially available 1st generation Grubbs catalyst.\n\nSchrock entered the olefin metathesis field in 1979 as an extension of work on tantalum alkylidenes. The initial result was disappointing as reaction of CpTa(=CH-t-Bu)Cl with ethylene yielded only a metallacyclopentane, not metathesis products:\n\nBut by tweaking this structure to a PRTa(CHt-bu)(Ot-bu)Cl (replacing chloride by t-butoxide and a cyclopentadienyl by an organophosphine, metathesis was established with cis-2-pentene. In another development, certain tungsten oxo complexes of the type W(O)(CHt-Bu)(Cl)(PEt) were also found to be effective.\n\nSchrock alkylidenes for olefin metathesis of the type Mo(NAr)(CHC(CH)R){OC(CH)(CF)} were commercialized starting in 1990.\n\nThe first asymmetric catalyst followed in 1993\n\nWith a Schrock catalyst modified with a BINOL ligand in a norbornadiene ROMP leading to highly stereoregular cis, isotactic polymer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859897", "title": "Apocalypse of Paul", "text": "Apocalypse of Paul\n\nThe Apocalypse of Paul (\"Apocalypsis Pauli\", more commonly known in the Latin tradition as the \"Visio Pauli\" or \"Visio sancti Pauli\") is a third-century non-canonical apocalypse considered part of the New Testament apocrypha. The original Greek version of the \"Apocalypse\" is lost, although non-extant copies still exist. Using later versions and translations, the text has been reconstructed. The text is not to be confused with the gnostic Coptic Apocalypse of Paul, which is unlikely to be related.\n\nThe text, which is pseudepigraphal, purports to present a detailed account of a vision of Heaven and Hell experienced by Paul the Apostle; \"its chief importance lies in the way it helped to shape the beliefs of ordinary Christians concerning the afterlife\".\n\nThe text is primarily focused on a detailed account of Heaven and Hell. It appears to be an elaborate expansion and rearrangement of the Apocalypse of Peter, although it differs in some ways. It contains a prologue describing all of creation appealing to God against the sin of man, which is not present in the Apocalypse of Peter. At the end of the text, Paul or the Virgin Mary (depending on the manuscript) manages to persuade God to give everyone in Hell a day off every Sunday.\n\nThe text expands upon the Apocalypse of Peter by framing the reasons for the visits to heaven and hell as the witnessing of the death and judgement of one wicked man and one righteous man. The text is heavily moralistic, and adds, to the \"Apocalypse of Peter\", features such as: \n\nThe plan of the text is:\n\n\nGreek copies of the texts are rare; those that exist contain many omissions. Of the Eastern versions – Syriac, Coptic, Amharic, Georgian – the Syriac are considered to be the most reliable. There is an Ethiopic version of the apocalypse which features the Virgin Mary in the place of Paul the Apostle, as the receiver of the vision, known as the \"Apocalypse of the Virgin\". \n\nThe lost Greek original was translated into Latin as the \"Visio Pauli\", and was widely copied, with extensive variation coming into the tradition as the text was adapted to suit different historical and cultural contexts; by the eleventh century, there were perhaps three main independent editions of the text. From these diverse Latin texts, many subsequent vernacular versions were translated, into most European languages, prominently including German and Czech.\n\nThe \"Visio Pauli\" also influenced a range of other texts again. It is particularly noted for its influence in the Dante's Inferno (ii. 28), when Dante mentions the visit of the \"Chosen Vessel\" to Hell. The \"Visio\" is also considered to have influenced the description of Grendel's home in the Old English poem \"Beowulf\" (whether directly or indirectly, possibly via the Old English Blickling Homily XVI).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859900", "title": "Henny Backus", "text": "Henny Backus\n\nHenny Backus (March 21, 1911 – December 9, 2004) was a Broadway showgirl in the 1930s whose stage credits include Orson Welles's \"Horse Eats Hat\". She was the wife of actor and comedian Jim Backus.\n\nHenrietta Kaye was born in Brooklyn on March 21, 1911. She studied sculpture at Cooper Union, but she preferred working in the theater and appeared in Broadway musicals during the 1930s. Working as Henriette Kaye, she was a member of the Federal Theatre Project. Described by \"The New York Times\" as \"a leggy redhead with a droll sense of humor\", she appeared in Orson Welles's Project 891 production \"Horse Eats Hat\" (1936), a surrealistic farce co-starring Welles, Joseph Cotten, Hiram Sherman and Arlene Francis. Her husband, Nat Karson, designed the sets and costumes.\n\nKaye married actor and comedian Jim Backus in 1943. The couple co-starred in the 1960s television series \"Blondie\", and they performed together once on \"Gilligan's Island\", in the sitcom's second-season episode \"Gilligan's Mother-In-Law\" (1965). She appeared too with her husband in a season-five episode of \"The Love Boat\".\n\nHenny and Jim Backus co-authored several humorous books, including \"What Are You Doing After the Orgy?\" (1962), \"Only When I Laugh\" (1965), \"Backus Strikes Back\" (1984), and \"Forgive Us Our Digressions\" (1988). Henny also wrote \"Care for the Caretaker\" (1999), documenting her husband's battle with Parkinson's disease and offering practical solutions for those facing such dilemmas.\n\nJim Backus died from complications of pneumonia in 1989. Fifteen years later, Henny died at the age of 93 following a series of strokes. She was buried next to her husband in Westwood Village Memorial Park Cemetery in Los Angeles.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859903", "title": "Workers' Revolutionary Party (Peru)", "text": "Workers' Revolutionary Party (Peru)\n\nWorkers' Revolutionary Party (in Spanish: \"Partido Revolucionario de los Trabajadores\") is a trotskyist political party in Peru founded in 1978 by a fraction of PST, FIR(IV) and FIR(Combate). Its founding leaders included Hugo Blanco, Hipólito Enríquez, Raúl Castro Vera and Nicolás Lucar. It participated in the general elections 1980 and the municipal elections 1980 and 1983.\n\nPRT is currently led by Raúl Castro Vera.\n\nThe PRT became the Pervuvian section of reunified Fourth International but, in the 1980s, the Fourth Internationals in Peru joined the Partido Unificado Mariateguista.\n"}
{"id": "1859910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859910", "title": "Placide Tempels", "text": "Placide Tempels\n\nPlacide Frans Tempels (18 February 1906 – 9 October 1977) was a Belgian Franciscan missionary in the Congo who became famous for his book \"Bantu Philosophy\".\n\nTempels was born in Berlaar, Belgium. Born Frans Tempels, he took the name \"Placide\" on his entry into a Franciscan seminary in 1924. After his ordination to the priesthood in 1930 he taught for a short time in Belgium before being posted to the Belgian Congo (now the Democratic Republic of the Congo) in 1933. He stayed there for twenty-nine years, broken by only two short stays back in Belgium. In April 1962 he returned to live in a Franciscan monastery in Berlaar, where he died in 1977.\n\nThough neither African nor a philosopher, Tempels had a huge influence on African philosophy through the publication in 1945 of his book \"La philosophie bantoue\" (published in English translation in 1959) as \"Bantu Philosophy\").\n\n"}
{"id": "1859911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859911", "title": "Episkopi, Lasithi", "text": "Episkopi, Lasithi\n\nEpiskopi Ierapetras is a village on the Greek island of Crete. Episkopi belongs to the municipality of Ierapetra in the prefecture of Lasithi. It lies north of Ierapetra in the middle of the narrowest part of the island. The village has approximately one thousand inhabitants.\nThe village was established during the Minoan period, probably between 2500 and 2000 BCE. It is located 6.5 km north of Ierapetra on the road from Agios Nikolaos to Ierapetra at 120 m a.s.l. The municipality covers an area of 36 km², while 15 km² are cultivated with olive trees, most of them irrigated from the Bramianos dam, and the springs of Malavra, Thripti, Kefalovrissi and Kato Horio. Like their minoan predecessors the present residents are employed mostly in agriculture, in the harvest of olives and the production of olive oil.\n\nThe village's main attraction is a small Byzantine church which was built at 961 A.C. It has recently been restored. The church is dedicated to Agios Georgios (Saint George) and Agios Charalambos. Close to this church the remains of an Early Byzantine church can be found.\n\nAt 1946 A.C. a sarcophagus was found in the village from the Minoan period\n"}
{"id": "1859913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859913", "title": "List of Ontario senators", "text": "List of Ontario senators\n\nThis is a list of past and present Senators of Canada representing the province of Ontario. Ontario has had an allocation of 24 senators since the time of Confederation. The province is also one of four regional Senate divisions under Section 26 of the Constitution Act that allows for the expansion of the Senate by one or two senators per region.\n\nNotes:\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "1859914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859914", "title": "Richard Dunne", "text": "Richard Dunne\n\nRichard Patrick Dunne (born 21 September 1979) is an Irish former footballer and current television pundit for BT Sport, who played as a defender. He made 431 Premier League appearances, including 253 for Manchester City.\n\nDunne began his professional career at Everton. He later spent nearly a decade at Manchester City before joining Aston Villa in 2009. In July 2013, he signed for Queens Park Rangers. He has also played internationally for the Republic of Ireland from 2000 until 2014. With Ireland he was a member of the 2002 FIFA World Cup squad and played in UEFA Euro 2012. Dunne announced his retirement from football in November 2015 after being released by Queens Park Rangers.\n\nDunne holds the Premier League record of being sent off – joint eight times along with Patrick Vieira and Duncan Ferguson. He also holds the Premier League record of scoring 10 own goals.\n\nHaving played schoolboy football in Dublin for Home Farm, Dunne joined Everton as a 15-year-old schoolboy in the 1994–95 season. The next season, he started to play for Everton reserves and in early 1997, Dunne signed a 5-year professional contract. He was part of the successful 1998 FA Youth Cup squad along with Tony Hibbert and Leon Osman.\n\nDunne made his debut under then manager Joe Royle in 1997, at the age of seventeen. Under Walter Smith, however, he was often used out of position at right back, and was punished by Smith for two separate disciplinary incidents. Wimbledon reportedly had a bid accepted for Dunne, only for it to fall through, and Dunne stayed at Everton for another year, again usually filling in at right back.\n\nIn the autumn of 2000, Dunne was signed by Manchester City for a fee of £3.5 million, rejoining his former manager Joe Royle. City had signed both Dunne and Laurent Charvet as replacements for right back Richard Edghill who had suffered from a dip in form.\n\nIt was in the centre of defence where Dunne made his biggest impact on the team. Dunne had various partners in the centre of defence in his first season at the club and for a few games he played in a three-man defence with Andy Morrison and Steve Howey. His first season saw City relegated into the First Division and acquire the services of a new manager, Kevin Keegan. Manchester City made an instant return to the Premier League, finishing the 2001–02 season as First Division champions. Disciplinary problems in 2003 resulted in a club suspension, and his time at Manchester City looked to be over. However, Dunne returned to the first team following an intensive fitness programme, and within a few months gained an international recall.\n\nA number of consistent performances resulted in Dunne receiving Manchester City's Player of the Year award for 2004–05, which he also won in the 2005–06, 2006–07 and 2007–08 seasons, becoming the first player to win City's PotY award four times. In the 2006 close season, at the age of 26, Dunne was appointed club captain, taking over from Sylvain Distin, amidst rumours of Distin leaving City.\n\nOn 18 January 2007, Manchester City teammate Micah Richards said:\n\"Ever since I've come to this club Richard has just been quality. I play with him week in, week out and I think he's one of the best players I've played with. I've played with John Terry and Rio Ferdinand in the England squad but Richard is right up there with them.\"\n\nOn 4 July 2008, Dunne signed a new four-year contract with Manchester City to keep him at the club until 2012.\n\nIn August 2008, Garry Cook, chief executive of City, said \"China and India are gagging for football content to watch and we're going to tell them that City is their content. We need a superstar to get through that door. Richard Dunne doesn't roll off the tongue in Beijing.\"\n\nDunne continued to play throughout 2008–09 making 47 starts in all competitions despite three red cards. He marked his 29th Birthday with a goal in the 6–0 win against Portsmouth on 21 September 2008, while his eighth Premier League red card against Wigan Athletic in January 2009 equalled a record set by Patrick Vieira and Duncan Ferguson.\n\nFollowing the signings of Kolo Touré and Joleon Lescott, it was reported that Dunne could leave the City of Manchester Stadium with Aston Villa the most likely destination. Villa confirmed on 27 August 2009, that they had agreed a fee with Manchester City for the defender. Aston Villa filed the paperwork for the deal before the close of the transfer window but the Premier League announced that the deal could not be \"ratified\" until 2 September 2009, when the deal was completed. Villa manager Martin O'Neill later stated the fee paid for Dunne was £5 million and that the player had signed a four-year deal.\n\nDunne made his debut in a 1–0 win over Birmingham City at St. Andrew's, courtesy of an 85th-minute strike from Gabriel Agbonlahor. Following the game, Dunne praised his new teammates James Collins, Carlos Cuéllar and Stephen Warnock, claiming that their partnership in defence \"seems to have worked reasonably well\". On 26 September 2010, Dunne played the full 90 minutes alongside Collins against Blackburn Rovers at Ewood Park in a 2–1 defeat.\n\nOn 5 October 2009, Dunne scored his first goal for Villa, coincidentally against his former club Manchester City, in a 1–1 draw.\nHe was applauded by Manchester City fans for his respect in refusing to celebrate his goal. He netted his second goal later that month in the team's 2–1 home victory over Chelsea. On 28 February 2010, he started for Aston Villa in their 2010 Football League Cup Final defeat to Manchester United at Wembley Stadium. He was named in the PFA Team of the Year for the 2009–10 season.\n\nOn 21 November 2010, he started and played the full 90 minutes alongside Ciaran Clark against Blackburn Rovers in a 2–0 defeat at Ewood Park. On 11 December 2010, Dunne was dropped from the team and replaced by Carlos Cuéllar. Dunne was recalled to the starting line up in the away game against Chelsea at Stamford Bridge which Villa ended up drawing 3–3. On 1 February 2011, he started and completed the full 90 minutes alongside James Collins in the Premier League game with Manchester United at Old Trafford in a 3–1 defeat.\n\nOn 18 March 2011, Dunne and Collins were fined a total of £200,000 – two weeks' wages each – by Villa for a drunken confrontation with club staff during a team-bonding exercise.\n\nAt the end of the 2010–11 season, Dunne made 35 appearances in all competitions for Villa. Ahead of the 2011–12 season, new manager Alex McLeish has said because of his aerial ability and such good awareness on the ball he will be an automatic first choice at the back. On 27 July 2011, he started and played the full 90 minutes in the 1–0 victory over Blackburn Rovers in the 2011 Premier League Asia Trophy held in Hong Kong. On 30 July 2011, he started the final with Chelsea and also completed the full 90 minutes in a 2–0 defeat.\n\nOn 12 February 2012, Dunne fractured his right clavicle in a collision with Joe Hart during a Premier League match against his former club Manchester City. He had surgery in Birmingham the following day. Dunne travelled to the NFL team the Cleveland Browns in order to attain specialised medical care for his injury, who at the time were owned by then-chairman of Aston Villa, Randy Lerner.\n\nIn May 2013, manager Paul Lambert announced that the Irishman was being released on a free transfer.\n\nDunne joined Queens Park Rangers on 15 July 2013, on a free transfer. He made his first QPR appearance against Exeter City in the League Cup. He scored his first goal for Rangers against Burnley on 1 February 2014. In his first season at QPR he made a total of 45 appearances scoring one goal and was part of the team that won promotion back to the Premier League via the 2014 Football League Championship play-off Final against Derby County.\nDunne holds the unfortunate record of the most own goals in the Premier League, scoring his tenth in a 3–2 defeat against Liverpool on 19 October 2014, in a game which saw QPR score two own goals to hand Liverpool the victory.\n\nQPR were eventually relegated that season, finishing in last place with 20 more goals conceded than any other side. Dunne made a total of 24 appearances.\n\nOn 31 May 2015, Dunne's contract expired and, along with five other players he was released by the club. There was considerable speculation regarding his plans after QPR and he was linked with moves to MLS, the Indian Super League and the League of Ireland. None of these materialized however, and he formally announced his retirement from football in November 2015. He now lives with his wife and two children in Monte Carlo.\n\nDunne played for the Republic of Ireland national under-19 football team in the 1997 UEFA European Under-18 Football Championship finals in Iceland. Dunne made his debut for the Republic of Ireland on 26 April 2000 in a 1–0 loss against Greece in a friendly match. His first international goal came just two months later in only his third cap as he scored on 4 June against Mexico, helping his team come from 2–0 down to drawing 2–2. He was selected by Mick McCarthy to play against the likes of the Netherlands and Portugal during Ireland's successful 2002 FIFA World Cup qualification campaign, where he also scored his first competitive international goal in a 2–0 win against Estonia.\n\nDunne was part of the Irish squad that played at the 2002 FIFA World Cup, but the centre-half pairing of Gary Breen and Steve Staunton (the latter of whom became team captain following the departure of Roy Keane) was favoured by Mick McCarthy, meaning Dunne did not even make an appearance as a substitute. The emergence of John O'Shea, and Brian Kerr's preference for Kenny Cunningham, meant that Dunne's chances with Ireland were extremely limited during their unsuccessful attempt to qualify for UEFA Euro 2004. He did score his fourth international goal in a friendly against Turkey just prior to the end of the campaign. Dunne again found himself out of favour with Kerr during the qualification campaign for the 2006 FIFA World Cup, only featuring in the final three matches which included a 1–0 defeat to France, a game that ultimately cost Ireland qualification. Another change of manager for Ireland saw Dunne's former teammate, Steve Staunton, use him during the majority of the Euro 2008 qualification campaign. Early defeats to Germany and a humiliating 5–2 loss to Cyprus, a match in which Dunne scored before giving away a penalty and being sent off, ensured qualification was always beyond the Irish. Dunne only missed three of the twelve matches, due to suspension and injury rather than form.\n\nGiovanni Trapattoni was appointed Ireland manager for the qualification campaign ahead of the 2010 FIFA World Cup and cemented Dunne as Ireland's first choice central defender. Dunne played in all ten games helping Ireland finish second and qualify for a play-off whilst also scoring goals in both 1–1 draws with Bulgaria, as well as winning the man of the match award in the away game held in Sofia. He also played the entire matches in both legs against France, as Ireland were controversially knocked out 2–1 on aggregate after extra-time. Dunne was famously pictured sitting distraught on the pitch in Paris as Thierry Henry, who assisted William Gallas' winning goal after controlling the ball with his hand, consoled Dunne.\n\nOn 8 February 2011, Dunne started and completed the full 90 minutes in Ireland's first Nations Cup game against Wales in a 3–0 win. On 26 March 2011, he started and played the full 90 minutes in the Group B Euro 2012 qualifier against Macedonia in a 2–1 victory at the Aviva Stadium. On 10 August 2011, he started and played the full 90 minutes alongside Sean St. Ledger in the goalless draw against Croatia at the Aviva Stadium.\n\nOn 6 September 2011, Dunne started and played the full 90 minutes in the goalless draw against Russia in Moscow. Dunne gave perhaps the best performance of his career, winning the man of the match award as he almost single-handedly stopped a Russian team which totally dominated midfield and created wave after wave of attacks. Former Ireland defender Paul McGrath described Dunne's heroics as the best performance from an Irish central defender he had ever witnessed, including his own performance against Italy in the 1994 FIFA World Cup.\n\nOn 11 October 2011, Dunne started and played the full 90 minutes in a 2–1 victory for Ireland over Armenia at the Aviva Stadium which gained them a play-off spot for UEFA Euro 2012, scoring in the 60th minute his eighth goal on his 69th international appearance for his country. After the team qualified for UEFA Euro 2012 with an unprecedented 5–1 aggregate play-off win over their opponents Estonia, Dunne described it as \"the best experience I've probably had in football\". He started in all three of Ireland's Group C matches at UEFA Euro 2012, as they were defeated 3–1 by Croatia, 4–0 by Spain, and 2–0 by Italy.\n\nOn 2 June 2013, Dunne made his return to the national team for the first time in a year as a second half substitution against Georgia in a 4–0 Irish win.\nDunne made his return to the Irish team in his first competitive game for 15 months in a 1–2 loss to Sweden at the Aviva Stadium in 2014 FIFA World Cup qualifying.\n\nOn 31 July 2014, Dunne retired from international football.\n\nAfter retiring in 2015 he joined BT Sport as a pundit for their coverage of the Premier League, FA Cup, UEFA Champions League and UEFA Europa League. Dunne has been praised for his insightful and opinionated style of punditry.\n\nEverton\n\nManchester City\n\nAston Villa\n\nQueens Park Rangers\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859916", "title": "Socialist Political Action", "text": "Socialist Political Action\n\nSocialist Political Action (), was a political party in Peru that was founded in 1980 by Gustavo Mohme Llona. It participated in the general elections in 1980, and on the lists of United Left in 1985 and 1990. It was the co-founder of Democratic Left Movement (MDI) in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "1859917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859917", "title": "Lukanka", "text": "Lukanka\n\nLukanka () is a Bulgarian (sometimes spicy) salami unique to Bulgarian cuisine. It is similar to sujuk, but often stronger flavored. Lukanka is semi-dried, has a flattened cylindrical shape, and brownish-red interior in a skin that is normally covered with a white fungus. The mix of small pieces of meat and fat give the interior a grainy structure.\n\nTraditionally, lukanka salami is made of pork, veal, and spices (black pepper, cumin, salt), minced together and stuffed into a length of dried cow's intestine as a casing. After stuffing, the cylindrical salami is hung to dry for about 40 to 50 days in a well-ventilated location. In the process of drying, the salami is pressed to acquire its typical flat form. Lukanka is usually finely sliced and served cold as an appetizer or starter.\n\nThe taste qualities of lukanka depend on natural characteristics of the region it is produced in, and are formed under the influence of the typical microflora of the local geographic environment. There are several regions in Bulgaria well known for lukanka production. Most of these are located in central Bulgaria, at the foot of the Balkan mountain range, notably the Smyadovo, Panagyurishte, and Karlovo regions. \"\"Karlovska lukanka\"\" is a name protected on a local level by the Patent office of the Republic of Bulgaria for lukanka from the Karlovo region. The \"\"Lukanka panagyurska\"\" of Panagyurishte has obtained an EU-wide Traditional specialities guaranteed (TGI) denomination.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859921", "title": "Alexandre Stavisky", "text": "Alexandre Stavisky\n\nSerge Alexandre Stavisky (November 20, 1886, Ukraine – January 8, 1934, Chamonix) was a French financier and embezzler whose actions created a political scandal that became known as the Stavisky Affair.\n\nAlexandre Stavisky was a Polish Jew born in modern-day Ukraine whose Russian parents had moved to France.\n\nStavisky tried various professions, working as a café singer, as a nightclub manager, as a worker in a soup factory, and as the operator of a gambling den. He received French citizenship in 1910. In the 1930s he managed municipal pawnshops in Bayonne but also moved in financial circles. He sold lots of worthless bonds and financed his \"hockshop\" on the surety of what he called the emeralds of the late Empress of Germany — which later turned out to be glass. In 1927, Stavisky was put on trial for fraud for the first time, charged with a 6 million pound fraud. However, the trial was postponed again and again, and he was granted bail 19 times.\n\nFaced with exposure in December 1933, Stavisky fled. On 8 January 1934, the police found him in a Chamonix chalet dying from two gunshot wounds to the head. Surgeons struggled to save him but he died early in the hours of January 9. Officially, Stavisky committed suicide, but it was widely speculated that he was murdered to keep him silent.\n\nIn the aftermath there were many riots on the streets of Paris, resulting in 250 arrests on January 10 as news of government involvement in the financial scandal broke. The French premier Camille Chautemps was forced to resign owing to the number of ministers wrapped up in the affair, and rumours that he had ordered Stavisky's assassination. An official public enquiry was ordered into the affair. Shortly before it began a senior judge, Albert Prince, who was due to be a witness, was found murdered on a railway line near Dijon, having been tricked to go there from Paris by means of a bogus telegram claiming his mother was very ill.\n\nStavisky died on January 8, 1934, in Chamonix. He was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\nIn \"Forces occultes\", a film commissioned in 1942 by the \"Propaganda Abteilung\", a delegation of Nazi Germany's propaganda ministry within occupied France, Stavisky was presented as both a Freemason and a crook. In 1974, film director Alain Resnais told the story in the film \"Stavisky...\" that featured Jean-Paul Belmondo in the title role and Anny Dupérey as his wife Arlette.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859924", "title": "Sujuk", "text": "Sujuk\n\nSujuk is a dry, spicy sausage which is eaten from the Balkans to the Middle East and Central Asia.\n\nThe Turkish name \"sucuk\" has been adopted largely unmodified by other languages in the region, including ; ; ; , \"suǰux\"; , \"sudzhuk\"; , \"sutzúki\"; Macedonian: \"суџук\", \"sudžuk\"; ; , \"sudzhuk\"; Serbian/Croatian/Bosnian \"sudžuk\" /\"cyџyk\". Cognate names are also present in other Turkic languages, e.g. , \"shujyq\"; , \"chuchuk\".\n\nThere was considerable variety in sausage preparation during the Middle Ages; though offal was never used in Ottoman sausages, it was a common ingredient in the many varieties of sausage prepared throughout Medieval Romania.\n\nThin slices of sujuk can be pan-fried in a bit of butter, while larger pieces may be grilled. \"Sucuklu yumurta\", which literally means \"eggs with sujuk\", is commonly served as a Turkish breakfast dish. \"Sucuklu yumurta\" is a simple dish of fried eggs cooked together with sujuk, but sujuk may also be added to other egg dishes like \"menemen\" (which is similar to shakshouka but with scrambled eggs instead of poached).\n\nSujuk can be added to many dishes including fava bean stew (\"kuru fasulye\"), filled phyllo dough pastries (\"burek\") and as a topping for pizza or \"pide\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1859925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859925", "title": "Alien Intruder", "text": "Alien Intruder\n\nAlien Intruder is a 1993 action/science fiction film directed by Nick Stone and Ricardo Jacques Gale. It stars Maxwell Caulfield, Tracy Scoggins, Billy Dee Williams, Gary Roberts, Richard Cody, and Stephen Davies.\n\nSet in 2022, a group of convicts sentenced to life in prison are led on a mission into uncharted deep space by Commander Skyler (Williams) to salvage a lost ship. As incentive to go on this dangerous mission, the convicts are given the opportunity to spend their weekends in a virtual reality world where they could live out their sexual fantasies with any woman they choose. However, a woman who is not part of the program appears in it (Scoggins), kills each virtual woman and seduces each convict. When she begins to appear outside the program, the men quickly turn on each other.\n"}
{"id": "1859928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859928", "title": "The Men in Black (comics)", "text": "The Men in Black (comics)\n\nThe Men in Black is an American comic book created and written by Lowell Cunningham, illustrated by Sandy Carruthers, and originally published by Aircel Comics. Aircel would later be bought out by Malibu Comics, which itself was bought out by Marvel Comics. Three issues were published in 1990, with another three the following year. It was adapted into the film \"Men in Black\", which was a critical and commercial success, leading to three sequels and various spin-offs, as well as a number of tie-in one-shot comics from Marvel. Cunningham had the idea for the comic once a friend of his introduced him to the concept of government \"Men in black\" upon seeing a black van riding the streets.\n\nThe first series consisted of three issues and was published in 1990 by Aircel Comics, cover-dated January to March 1990. After Aircel was acquired by Malibu Comics, a second series appeared, \"The Men in Black Book II\" #1-3 (May–July 1991).\n\nMalibu was purchased by Marvel Comics in 1994, and when the feature film \"Men in Black\" was released, Marvel published a number of one-shots in 1997, including a prequel, a sequel, a movie adaptation, and a reprint of the first issue of the original Aircel miniseries.\n\nThe first series was collected into a trade paperback (June 1990, ).\n\nThe Men in Black is an international intelligence organization which oversees and investigates both good and evil paranormal activity on Earth. Their remit includes alien life, demons, mutants, zombies, werewolves, vampires, legendary creatures and other paranormal beings. In order to keep their investigations secret, much of the global population are unaware of their activities, and are liable to be neuralyzed to blank their memory of any interaction with the agents.\n\nNotable members include Zed, Jay, Kay and Ecks. Ecks later becomes a rogue agent after learning the truth behind the MiB which is they seek to manipulate and reshape the world in their own image by keeping the supernatural hidden.\n\nAn agent may use any means necessary, including death and destruction, to accomplish a mission. Agents sever all ties with their former lives, and (thanks to the neuralyzer) as far as the world is concerned, they do not exist.\n\nBeginning with the release of the 1997 film \"Men in Black, \" the series has been adapted across a wide variety of media, spawning an entire franchise. Starring Will Smith and Tommy Lee Jones, the film proved a huge box office success for Columbia Pictures and Amblin Entertainment, resulting in two sequels: \"Men in Black II\" and \"Men in Black 3\". The popularity of the films subsequently led to many tie-ins and spin-offs, including an October 1997 to June 2001 animated series titled \"\", novelizations, soundtracks of each film, video games and an . A spin-off was released June 14, 2019, titled \"\". It continues the universe of the first three films, instead of adapting the original material from the 1990 comic book series.\n\nDespite sharing the same basic premise, the various adaptations differ greatly from the original comic series. Some of these differences include: The secret organization exclusively policing extraterrestrial activity on Earth while omitting the other paranormal elements, using memory erasure rather than killing witnesses, the agency's main goal being to maintain order on Earth rather than to direct it and Agent J is an African-American man instead of a blonde-haired Caucasian man. The tone of the series was lightened, exchanging the comics' dark and bleak approach for comedy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859930", "title": "Coptic Apocalypse of Paul", "text": "Coptic Apocalypse of Paul\n\nThe Coptic Apocalypse of Paul is one of the texts of the New Testament apocrypha found in the Nag Hammadi library of Codex V. The text is not to be confused with the \"Apocalypse of Paul\", which is unrelated.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859937", "title": "Revolutionary Left Union", "text": "Revolutionary Left Union\n\nRevolutionary Left Union (in Spanish: \"Unión de Izquierda Revolucionaria\"), was an electoral front in Peru founded in 1980 by Communist Party of Peru (Red Fatherland), Revolutionary Vanguard (Communist Proletarian) and National Liberation Front. UNIR participated on the lists of IU from the municipal elections 1980 to 1993.\n"}
{"id": "1859941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859941", "title": "My Ding-a-Ling", "text": "My Ding-a-Ling\n\n\"My Ding-a-Ling\" is a novelty song written and recorded by Dave Bartholomew. It was covered by Chuck Berry in 1972 and became his only number-one Billboard Hot 100 single in the United States. Later that year, in a longer unedited form, it was included on the album \"The London Chuck Berry Sessions\". Guitarist Onnie McIntyre and drummer Robbie McIntosh who later that year went on to form the Average White Band, played on the single along with Nic Potter of Van der Graaf Generator on bass.\n\n\"My Ding-a-Ling\" was originally recorded by Dave Bartholomew in 1952 for King Records. When Bartholomew moved to Imperial Records, he re-recorded the song under the new title, \"Little Girl Sing Ting-a-Ling\". In 1954, the Bees on Imperial released a version entitled \"Toy Bell.\" Doug Clark and the Hot Nuts recorded it in 1961, and it was part of their live act for many years. Berry recorded a version called \"My Tambourine\" in 1968, but the version which topped the charts was recorded live during the Lanchester Arts Festival at the Locarno ballroom in Coventry, England, on 3 February 1972, where Berry – backed by the Roy Young Band – topped a bill that also included Slade, George Carlin, Billy Preston and Pink Floyd. Boston radio station WMEX disc jockey Jim Connors was credited with a gold record for discovering the song and pushing it to #1 over the airwaves and amongst his peers in the United States. \"Billboard\" ranked it as the No. 15 song for 1972.\n\nThe song is based on the melody of the 19th century folk song \"Little Brown Jug\".\n\nThe song tells of how the singer received a toy consisting of \"silver bells hanging on a string\" from his grandmother, who calls them his \"ding-a-ling\". According to the song, he plays with it in school, and holds on to it in dangerous situations like falling after climbing the garden wall, and swimming across a creek infested with snapping turtles. From the second verse onward, the lyrics consistently exercise the double entendre in that a penis could just as easily be substituted for the toy bells and the song would still make sense.\n\nIn the live Berry version, Berry makes the chorus a call-and-response, in which the women in the audience sing “my” and the men respond by shouting “ding-a-ling!” At one point, Berry notes that a few of the men are singing the women's parts and that some women are adding (audible in the recording) a harmony line; Berry allows and openly encourages it, exclaiming “it's a free country! Live like you wanna live!” In the final verse, he admonishes \"those of you who will not sing\" by suggesting that they \"must be playing with [their] own ding-a-ling\".\n\nThe lyrics with their sly tone and innuendo (and the enthusiasm of Berry and the audience) caused many radio stations to refuse to play it. British morality campaigner Mary Whitehouse tried unsuccessfully to get the song banned. \"One teacher,\" Whitehouse wrote to the BBC's Director General, \"told us of how she found a class of small boys with their trousers undone, singing the song and giving it the indecent interpretation which—in spite of all the hullabaloo—is so obvious... We trust you will agree with us that it is no part of the function of the BBC to be the vehicle of songs which stimulate this kind of behaviour—indeed quite the reverse.\"\n\nIn \"Icons of Rock\", Scott Schinder calls the song \"a sophomoric, double-entendre-laden ode to masturbation\". Robert Christgau remarked that the song \"permitted a lot of twelve-year-olds new insight into the moribund concept of 'dirty.\n\nDuring a short spoken introduction to the song on the single, Berry refers to the song as \"our alma mater\".\n\nFor a re-run of \"American Top 40\", some stations, such as WOGL in Philadelphia, replaced the song with an optional extra when it aired a rerun of a November 18, 1972 broadcast of \"AT40\" (where it ranked at #14) on December 6, 2008. Among other stations, most Clear Channel-owned radio stations to whom the AT40 '70s rebroadcasts were contracted did not air the rebroadcast that same weekend, although it was because they were playing Christmas music and not because of the controversy. Even back in 1972, some stations would refuse to play the song on \"AT40\", even when it reached number one.\n\nThe controversy was lampooned in \"The Simpsons\" episode \"Lisa's Pony\", in which a Springfield Elementary School student attempts to sing the song during the school's talent show. He barely finishes the first line of the refrain before an irate Principal Skinner pushes him off the stage, angrily proclaiming \"This act is over!\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859943", "title": "Mexicano", "text": "Mexicano\n\nMexicano is a Spanish word that means \"Mexican\" (see: Mexican (disambiguation)).\n\nMexicano may also refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1859947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859947", "title": "Coronel Marcelino Maridueña", "text": "Coronel Marcelino Maridueña\n\nCoronel Marcelino Maridueña is a town located in eastern Guayas, Ecuador. It is the seat of Coronel Marcelino Maridueña Canton.\n\nAt the 2001 census there were 10,697 people living within canton limits. The most important crop is sugar cane, but bananas and tropical fruits are also grown. The main rivers are the Chimbo River, the Chanchán River, and the Barranco Alto River.\n\nSaint Charles Borromeo is the patron saint of Coronel Marcelino Maridueña.\n"}
{"id": "1859952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859952", "title": "Gino Perente", "text": "Gino Perente\n\nEugenio Mario Perente-Ramos (Gino Perente) (21 November 1937 – 18 March 1995) was the founder of the National Labor Federation (NATLFED), a collection of anti-poverty organizations in the United States. While canvassing door-to-door and operating assistance programs for the poor, NATLFED has also been described by critics as a left-wing \"political cult.\" Some reporters, cult-watchers, and the FBI inferred in the early 1980s that Perente was born Gerald William Doeden, a disc jockey and con artist from California.\n\nGerald Doeden was born in Crookston, Minnesota and grew up in Idaho and Yuba City/Marysville, California. He was an amateur actor who performed in plays at Yuba College.\n\nWhile in college, Doeden was injured in a car accident and walked with a limp for the rest of his life. He was known in Marysville as a small-scale con artist.\n\nDoeden married Ruth Mikkelsen in 1960, and had a daughter. Doeden, however, reportedly also fathered a child outside of his marriage. He and Mikkelsen were divorced in 1962, and he later spent some time in jail for non-payment of child support. Some observers have suggested that he may have left California to avoid child support payments.\n\nAfter working in Yuba City as a DJ for the radio station KAGR for about five years, Doeden began working at the Little Red Bookstore in San Francisco, where he went by aliases such as \"Claude\" and \"Gino Savo.\"\n\nA number of individuals associated with the store reportedly formed a short-lived group called \"Liberation Army Revolutionary Group Organizations\" (LARGO). In March 1970, the group sent letters to government offices \"announcing that armed guerrilla groups were about to attack public buildings.\" LARGO's only published statement, was a proclamation of intent to overthrow the government starting on March 15, 1970. While this quickly attracted the attention of the authorities, the group was described as quixotic by the media and dismissed by law enforcement.\n\nAround 1970 Doeden left California and resurfaced in New York City as \"Gino Parenti\". There he worked briefly in 1971 for the United Farm Workers Organizing Committee, the predecessor of United Farm Workers of America (UFW) in its New York office. After taking charge during a power vacuum, he was fired when UFW sent Jose Gomez to head the office. About 20 years later, he was remembered by Dolores Huerta as a \"colorful biker type who played a small role in the boycott for about nine months or a year... He created a lot of problems for the union, attacking us in the press. Then he went off and formed his own group.\" After leaving UFW, Perente founded the Eastern Farm Workers Association (EFWA) in Suffolk County, New York, an agricultural region on Long Island.\n\nWithin a few years, Perente's followers had started similar organizations patterned on EFWA in California and elsewhere on the east coast, and eventually one farm worker organizing drive had spawned a network of twenty such drives, called the National Labor Federation (NATLFED).\n\nBy the late 1970s, Perente's activities were increasingly limited to giving lectures to volunteers interpreting the writings of Karl Marx, Vladimir Lenin, and Joseph Stalin and directing the daily activities of his volunteers. Perente also co-authored a number of tracts, including \"The Essential Organizer\", the training manual of the EFWA, and \"The Genesis,\" a story of the origins of NATLFED claiming that the party was part of a secret International including the Communist Party of Cuba, the Sandinistas and revolutionaries in Chile and El Salvador, and that members of the Venceremos were among its founders.\n\nPerente retreated from public view in the mid- to late-1970s. Individuals associated with Perente purchased 1107-1115 Carrol St, an apartment building in the Crown Heights neighborhood of Brooklyn, and he lived there, surrounded by volunteers for his organizations, for the rest of his life. Some ex-full-time volunteers have alleged that Perente was a drug addict, sexually harassed female volunteers, and regularly physically abused some volunteer organizers during this period. In 2016 former cadre Sonja Larsen's memoir \"Red Star Tattoo- My Life as a Girl Revolutionary\" was published by Random House Canada. The book details her personal relationship with Gino Perente/Gerald Doeden and the emotional, physical and sexual abuse of women which she witnessed while living at the safe house around the time of the organization's revolutionary 'countdown.'\n\nPerente died March 18, 1995 in the Crown Heights apartment of congestive heart failure. He was buried at Oak Hill Cemetery in Stony Brook, NY by the organization he founded. The \"New York Times\" printed his obituary, and then a correction. The initial obituary relied primarily on information from two close associates, Daniel Fiske and Christopher Day. The \"Times\" was then contacted by his former wife, former colleagues, and longtime critics of Perente, including Chip Berlet, and, after fact checking the initial obituary, the Times issued a corrected obituary the next day.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859956", "title": "Millennium High School (Arizona)", "text": "Millennium High School (Arizona)\n\nMillennium High School (known also by its initialism MHS) is a public high school located in Goodyear, Arizona, United States. It is a part of the Agua Fria Union High School District.\n\nMillennium High school was established in 1999 as a separate high school after serving for several years as \"Agua Fria North\", a separate campus originally established in 1980 for freshmen only. In the late spring of 2011, covered parking with solar panel installations were added to Agua Fria and Millennium high schools; the district had previously added solar panels to the roofs at Desert Edge High School and Verrado High School in 2010. It is estimated that some 40 percent of the entire district's energy needs will come from solar panels at its high schools upon completion.\n\nMillennium High School has excelled tremendously in athletics. Winning state championships in basketball and soccer to producing various NCAA Division I athletes.\n\nIn 2014, the marching pride was ranked 10th place out of ten bands in Arizona. They were also selected to go to Hawaii to march in the Pearl Harbor memorial day parade, marking the 74th anniversary of the Pearl Harbor tragedy and the 70th anniversary of the end of World War II. In 2015, the marching tiger pride was ranked 6th place out of ten bands in Arizona. In 2018 Millennium got 2nd place in the AZMBA and got 5th in the ABODA circuit. In 2019, the ensemble placed 1st at Grand Championships in the AZMBA circuit with their show entitled ‘Only Human’. Along with winning the title, these hardworking students broke Millennium history when they hit 90’s and achieved 4th place at ABODA State Championships. MHS Fight song\n\nWhen Millennium High school was established in 1999, the administrators at the time agreed upon creating a main theme for the school. The theme was adopted from \"War Eagle\", which was the main theme for Auburn university in Alabama. The adopted song was soon later changed to the \"Millennium Fight Song\", in which the original lyrics to \"War Eagle\" have been changed to be more suitable for Millennium's environment. The song is still currently used in 2019, and there have been no discussed plans to change.\n\nOne of Millennium High School's specialties is its film program. By utilizing the Arizona CTE program, Millennium High school has been able to offer its students with equipment and software to be able to express themselves in artistic ways in filmography. Millennium High School has taken home multiple first-place trophies at Skills USA regional and Skills USA state competitions. As Millennium grows closer to 2019 competitions, film instructors have begun preparing their best students to bring Millennium home a nationals trophy.\n\nMillennium High School TV or MTV for short is a YouTube channel started January 9, 2014, as an effort to expand and bring the school together. Each week in advisory students are given the opportunity to view the current week's installment of MTV, delivering laughs and showcasing the content that students make. MTV's main purpose though is to deliver students with information about fundraisers and events that the school is holding. MTV has been a well-liked and well-received school show since it was first created. In the five years, MTV has been around each instructor has brought their wisdom to the picture and has made MTV an enjoyable experience for all. As of now Film and TV teacher Matthew Royal hand picks the next generation of students to lead MTV, bringing each year a breath of fresh air for the students.\n\nThe Millennium FFA Chapter is an Estrella District chapter within the Arizona Association FFA under the National FFA Organization. Before the establishment of the Millennium FFA chapter, it was known as the Agua Fria FFA chapter before moving the program to Millennium High School in 1999.\n\nIn 2008 Millennium's Parliamentary Procedure team won the national championship in Indianapolis, Indiana at the National FFA Convention, making them the top-ranked team in the nation for that year. In 2012, Millennium took six Career Development Event teams to the national convention, the most ever by a single chapter in the history of the Arizona FFA: Parliamentary Procedure; Conduct of Meetings; Forestry Management; Agricultural Issues; Dairy Evaluation and Management; and Livestock Evaluation and Management. Each of the six teams received either a bronze or silver placing. In 2013, Millennium returned to the National FFA Convention in Louisville, Kentucky, bringing two teams; Parliamentary Procedure and Agricultural Issues. Parliamentary Procedure earned a gold, placing as runner-up, and Agricultural Issues earned a silver medal, ranking them fifth in the nation. The chapter has produced multiple Arizona FFA state officers and candidates.\n\nClub participation makes up a large part of life at Millennium High School. MHS has over 40 active clubs on campus, ranging from organizations focusing on education to clubs simply for entertainment.\n\nMillennium's branch of the National Honor Society is the largest club on campus. Currently led by President Daniel Heazlet, the club has participated in hundreds of community service events. Despite being the largest club on campus, it’s invite only. Students must be sponsored by teachers and administrators on campus, and then fill out paperwork in order to join the club.\n\nMillennium features a branch of the Future Business Leaders of America (FBLA) that focuses on the use and creation of media and technology in the modern world. In 2017, the FBLA chapter at Millennium High School was reformed. Led by President Carl Zielinski, the club has boasted over 40 members, which has led to an abundant success at competitive events. As of the 2018-2019 year, the chapter has collectively taken home over 25 medals, leading this chapter of FBLA to the National leadership Conference, where they received 3 out of the 11 total Arizona FBLA placements at the conference. This made Millennium High School one of the best performing high schools in the entire state, as the only other school to receive that many awards was Pinnacle High School.\n\nIn late April 2019, Millennium FBLA traveled to Tucson, Arizona, where they competed in over 15 different events. The chapter placed in 10 of those events, taking the first place medal in 3: President Carl Zielinski placing 1st in \"Network Design\" and \"Networking Concepts\", and current Vice President Joseph Lara placing first in \"Digital Video Production\". In addition, President Carl Zielinski placed 2nd in \"Political Science\", Vice President Joseph Lara placed 3rd in \"Journalism\", Brandon Liu Placed 2nd in \"Mobile Application Development\", and Tyler Nichols placed 4th in \"Computer Problem Solving\". \nIn late June 2019, Millennium FBLA traveled to San-Antiono Texas. Where they participated and competed in the FBLA National Leadership Conference. Of the 5 total events they competed in, they placed in 3. President Carl Zielinski Placing 7th in \"Network Design\", Vice President Joseph Lara placing 5th in \"Digital Video Production\", and Tyler Nichols placing 3rd in \"Computer Problem Solving\". With this achievement, Millennium FBLA was recognized in the West Valley View newspaper. \n\nMillennium has three teams that compete in Quiz Bowl tournaments hosted by National Academic Quiz Tournaments: Millennium A, Millennium B, and Millennium C. These three teams were coached by Louise Privette, the school’s psychologist, for over a decade. Under Privette’s leadership, the teams had made it to the national tournament multiple times. As of the 2019 school year, Quiz Bowl is now coached by the school’s IB English teachers: Mrs. King and Mrs. Winfield.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859966", "title": "Albert Payson Terhune", "text": "Albert Payson Terhune\n\nAlbert Payson Terhune (December 21, 1872 – February 18, 1942) was an American author, dog breeder, and journalist. He was popular for his novels relating the adventures of his beloved collies and as a breeder of collies at his Sunnybank Kennels, the lines of which still exist in today's Rough Collies.\n\nAlbert Payson Terhune was born in New Jersey to Mary Virginia Hawes and the Reverend Edward Payson Terhune. His mother, Mary Virginia Hawes, was a writer of household management books and pre-Civil War novels under the name Marion Harland. Terhune had four sisters and one brother, though only two of his sisters lived to be adults: Christine Terhune Herrick (1859–1944); and Virginia Terhune Van De Water (1865–1945).\n\nSunnybank () was originally the family's summer home, with Terhune making it his permanent residence in 1912. He was educated at Columbia University where he received a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1893. From 1894 to 1916, he worked as a reporter for \"The Evening World.\"\n\nHe boxed exhibition matches with James J. Corbett, Bob Fitzsimmons and James J. Jeffries.\n\nHis Sunnybank Kennels where he bred and raised rough collies were \"the most famed collie kennels in the U.S.\"\n\n\"Bert\" Terhune was an active member of the Adventurers' Club of New York.\n\nTerhune was married twice. His first wife, Lorraine Bryson Terhune, died at the age of 23, four days after giving birth to Lorraine Virginia Terhune Stevens (1898–1956) and nine months into the marriage. He later remarried to Anice Terhune; they never had children. He died on February 18, 1942. He was buried at the Pompton Reformed Church in Pompton Lakes, New Jersey.\n\nHis estate, Sunnybank, in Wayne, New Jersey, is maintained as Terhune Memorial Park – Sunnybank. It is open to the public and visitors can visit the graves of many of the dogs mentioned in Terhune's works and view a collection of Terhune's book and dog awards at the Van Riper-Hopper Historic House Museum. Historical and family items from the Terhune home, \"The Place,\" can be found at the Pompton Lakes Historical Museum and the Van Riper-Hopper House Museum in Wayne, New Jersey. Albert Payson Terhune Elementary School, one of nine elementary schools in Wayne, New Jersey, is named in honor of the author. Their mascot is the collie dog. Pequannock Township, adjacent to Wayne, has a Payson Road, Terhune Ave and a Ladd Street named after him and his Canine character. \n\nAs a tribute to Terhune, the dog in Harlan Ellison's \"A Boy and His Dog\", as well as the later 1975 film, calls his master Albert.\n\nAlbert Payson Terhune first published short stories about his collie Lad, titled \"Lad Stories\", in various general-interest magazines, including \"Red Book\", \"Saturday Evening Post\", \"Ladies' Home Journal\", \"Hartford Courant\", and the \"Atlantic Monthly\". The first of his novels about his dogs, \"Lad: A Dog\", collected a dozen stories of his collie Lad in novel form. \"Lad\" was followed by over 30 additional dog-focused novels, including two additional books about Lad. Published in 1919, the novel was a best seller in both the adult and young adult markets and has been reprinted over 80 times. It was adapted into a feature film in 1962. A man of his time, Terhune is now often criticized by some for his starkly racist depictions of the minorities, hill people and so-called \"half-breeds\" that peopled parts of northern New Jersey less idealized than Sunnybank.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859973", "title": "Mary King (equestrian)", "text": "Mary King (equestrian)\n\nMary Elizabeth King (née Thomson, born 8 June 1961) is a British equestrian who competes in eventing. She has represented Great Britain at six Olympics from 1992 to 2012, winning team silver in 2004 and 2012, and team bronze in 2008. At the World Equestrian Games, she won team gold in 1994 and 2010, and team silver in 2006. She has also won four team golds and one team bronze medal at the European Eventing Championships.\n\nKing's individual honours include European bronze in 1995 and European Silver in 2007. She is a four-time British Open Champion (1990, 1991, 1996 and 2007). She won the CCI four star Badminton Horse Trials in 1992 and 2000, the CCI four star Burghley Horse Trials in 1996, and the CCI four star Rolex Kentucky with her homebred mare King's Temptress in 2011.\n\nMary King was born in Newark-on-Trent on 8 June 1961. Her father, Lieutenant-Commander M D H Thomson was a naval officer who suffered for the rest of his life from the consequences of a motorcycle accident that happened before Mary was born. Latterly he took the position of verger in Salcombe Regis parish church. He died in 2000. Her mother Patricia Gillian (Jill) continues the role of verger at the church. Mary also has an elder brother Simon Francis Bennett Thomson.\n\nShe attended Manor House Independent School (Honiton), Kings Grammar School (Ottery St Mary) and Evendine Court School of Domestic Economy (Cordon Bleu)(Malvern).\n\nShe did not grow up in a horsey family, but became fascinated by the vicar's pony, and eventually, aged 6, she persuaded her mother to lead her around the lanes on it. After that, she rode everything she could, even a donkey, and realised that she wanted to become a professional rider. It was not until she went to watch the Badminton Horse Trials, aged 11, with Axe Vale Pony Club, that she realised she wanted to become a professional three-day-event rider.\n\nAfter school, she went to work for Sheila Willcox, a former European Champion, where she learned everything, from breaking in and producing young horses, to top class stable management.\n\nA longing to travel took her to Zermatt where she worked as a chalet girl and which she described as being \"\"great fun and a doddle after working in the yard\"\". Subsequently, she joined the tall ship, Sir Winston Churchill, first as a trainee, then as a watch leader, before returning to set up her own stables.\n\nMary King converted a couple of cow sheds in a disused farmyard near her home and looked after other people's horses, gave riding lessons and bought and sold horses. To supplement her income, she cleaned houses, cooked, kept gardens tidy for people and delivered meat for the local butcher.\n\nFunding proved even more difficult in 1988 when she started competing professionally, requiring her to sell horses which had proven successful. This changed, when after being offered good money for Divers Rock, a horse on which she had achieved 7th place at Badminton, she turned the offer down commenting \"\"I'd rather be famous than rich.\"\" It proved to be the right decision because she secured her first sponsorship deal on the back of her success.\n\nMary King went to her first Badminton in 1985, finishing in seventh place with Diver's Rock, and finally won the event in 1992 with her horse, King William. She later won the event again in 2000 with Star Appeal. Mary also won Burghley Horse Trials with Star Appeal in 1996. In 2011 Mary became the first rider to win Kentucky 4* with a homebred horse, Kings Temptress .\n\nIn 2001, whilst exercising horses at her home, she had a fall which broke her neck. However, less than a year later she was back at the top of the sport recording top ten placings at major international events including a 3rd placing at Burghley Four Star on her great campaigner King Solomon III.\n\nShe has won six team gold medals at World Equestrian Games and European Championships. She has been British Champion four times, more than anyone to date. King has also represented Britain in six Olympic Games: 1992, 1996, 2000, 2004, 2008 and 2012. She has won;\n\n\nKing was appointed Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2013 New Year Honours for services to equestrianism.\n\nShe married Alan King (known as David King) in 1995 and they and their two children, Emily and Freddie, live in Salcombe Regis, Devon. Her daughter Emily King also competes in eventing.\n\n\nKing's Ginger - by Chilli Morning out of King's Temptress - sold 2018\n\nKing Bill - by Mill Law out of King's Fancy- sold 2018 to Charlotte East \n\nKings Choice - Sold to young rider in Ireland 2015\n\nKings Temptress (by Primitive Rising out of Kings Mistress) mare Born 2000 - retired from competition 2015 due to arthritic lameness. Will now go on to breed foals for Mary.\n\nKing Dan - Sold 2015\n\nMHS King Joules -Too strong for Mary. Now competing with eventer Oliver Townend 2014\n\nCavalier Venture - Too big for Mary. Now competing with eventer Francis Whittington 2014\n\nImperial Cavalier - Won Olympic Team Silver in London 2012,Europeam Team Bronze 2011, World Team Gold 2010. Retired from top level eventing 2014, Now competing with Yasmin Ingrahm\n\nFernhill Urco - Retired from top level eventing 2013, Now competing with Yasmin Ingrahm\n\nApache Sauce - Retired from top level eventing 2012, Died from tendon injury whilst competing at lower levels with Emily King in 2012\n\nChilli Morning - Too strong for Mary. Taken on by William Fox-Pitt in early 2012\n\nCall again Cavalier- Won Team Silver World Equestrian games 2006, \nChatsworth CIC3* and British Open CIC3* 2007, Won Team Gold & Individual Silver at the 2007 European Championships,\nOlympic Team Bronze at Beijing 2008,\nL\nDied at Express Eventing in November 2008 at the Millennium Stadium after breaking his leg\n\nCashel Bay- New rider as too strong for Mary, moved 2007\n\nKing Solomon- Won Mary's first Olympic medal (Team Silver) in 2004 \nwon Bleinham CCI3* in 1996, Saumur CCI3* in 1997\n\nRyan V- Collapsed and died of a heart attack whilst competing at Weston Park in 2001\nStar Appeal- Won CCI4* Burghley Horse Trials in 1996 and Badminton Horse Trials in 2000\n\nKing William- Won CCI4* Badminton Horse Trials in 1992 and took Mary to her first two Olympics\n\nKing Kong- Retired in 1995 due to tendon injury\nKing Basil - advanced horse sold 1994 \n\nKing Cuthbert- Won Bramham CCI3* 1986, 2nd at Burghley, Retired 1990 & given to Annie Collings\n\nKing Boris- Retired 1995\n\nDiver's Rock- Took Mary round her first Badminton in 1985\n\nKing Arthur\n\nSilverstone\n\nKing's Mistress- retired with tendon injury, kept as a broodmare\n\nKing Humphrey - Mary's first Eventer\n\nFerrari- sold to the Pinders, later owners of Star Appeal\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMidas Interactive brought out the computer game Mary King's Riding Star which was available on a variety of platforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859974", "title": "Line starve", "text": "Line starve\n\nA line starve describes the feeding of paper in a line printer back one line or moving the cursor on a character terminal up one line. It is the opposite of a line feed. This term is also used to describe the control character or escape sequence which causes this action. This is not a standard ASCII character, but it is defined as the ISO 6429 and Unicode \"Reverse Line Feed\" C1 control code (U+008D).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859978", "title": "Omega function", "text": "Omega function\n\nIn mathematics, omega function or ω function may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1859980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859980", "title": "Vietnamese famine of 1945", "text": "Vietnamese famine of 1945\n\nThe Vietnamese famine of 1945 ( – famine of the Yiyou Year) was a famine that occurred in northern Vietnam in French Indochina during World War II from October 1944 to late 1945, which at the time was under Japanese occupation from 1940 with Vichy France as a puppet government. Between 400,000 and 2 million people are estimated to have starved to death during this time. The demographics vary from French estimates of 600,000-700,000 dead, to official Vietnamese numbers of 1,000,000 to 2,000,000 victims.\n\nAccording to a 2018 study, the primary cause of the famine were typhoons that reduced the availability of food, Japan's occupation, American attacks on the Vietnamese transport system, and French colonial administration hindered an effective famine alleviation response.\n\nThe famine had many causes. The direct cause was the effects of World War II on French Indochina. The involvement of France and Japan in Vietnam caused detrimental effects to the economic activities of the Vietnamese. In 1944, after US bombing cut off supplies of coal from the north to Saigon, the French and Japanese used rice and maize as fuel for power stations. According to diplomat Bui Minh Dung, \"the Japanese occupation of Vietnam was the direct cause, in the final analysis, of several other factors, in turn affecting the famine, but their military efforts together with their economic policy for the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere per se seem to have systematically played a role considerably greater than any other factors in the Vietnamese starvation.\"\n\nThe mismanagement of the French administration in Vietnam was the indirect cause. The French reformed the economy to serve the administration and to meet the needs of war because they had been being invaded themselves. Natural causes included natural disasters such as droughts and floods, which destroyed northern crops.\n\nThe crop failures of 1943–45 were compounded by lack of dike maintenance following US bombing of the north and the catastrophic rainfall of August-September 1944, causing flooding and loss of rice plants.\n\nAfter the Great Depression in the 1930s, France returned to its policy of economic protectorate and monopolized the exploitation of natural resources of French Indochina. The people in French Indochina had to increase the economic value of the area by growing cash crops in place of lower-value agricultural produce, but only the French, a small minority of Vietnamese and Hoa and some people in the cities benefited.\n\nA similar poor harvest as in the famine had happened in 1937, but the administration had managed to counter it by prepared food reserves and a series of public works projects for poor farmers, akin to the American New Deal.\n\nWhen the war started, France was weakened. In East Asia, Japan began to expand and viewed French Indochina as a bridge into Southeast Asia and a means to isolate and further weaken the Nationalist government of China. In mid-1940, Metropolitan France was occupied by Nazi Germany and Japan increased pressure on France and entered French Indochina that September. Vietnam was pulled into a wartime economy, with France and Japan competing in administration. Japanese troops forced farmers to grow jute, instead of rice, thus depriving them of needed food, but France had already started the same policy to a smaller degree. The land set aside for growing staple crops such as maize and potatoes was decreased to make land for growing cotton, jute, and other industrial plants. Because of the decreased land available for growing, harvests of staple crops decreased considerably. Crops were also exported to Japan.\n\nThe militaries of both France and Japan forcibly seized food from farmers to feed their troops. By 1941, there were 140,000 Japanese troops in French Indochina in addition to the Vichy French forces. During the occupation the Allies made frequent air strikes against roads, warehouse and transportation facilities, which made the transport of rice from the south to the north extremely difficult. In the meantime, the puppet Vichy French civilian administration was dysfunctional and unable to distribute remaining food stocks to areas where needed. In March 1945, the Japanese ousted the Vichy administration and replaced it with the Japanese-sponsored Empire of Vietnam, headed by Trần Trọng Kim. While this new government increased efforts to alleviate the famine, the inadequate food supply and the hoarding of food by the Imperial Japanese Army made their efforts futile.\n\nIn northern Vietnam, a drought and pests caused the winter-spring harvest of 1944 to decrease by 20%. Then, a flood during the harvest season caused the crisis to occur, which led to famine in 1945.\n\nThe exact number of deaths caused by the 1944–1945 famine is unknown and is a matter of controversy. Various sources estimate between 400,000 and 2 million people starved in northern Vietnam during this time. In May 1945, the envoy at Hanoi asked the northern provinces to report their casualties. Twenty provinces reported that a total of 380,000 people starved to death and 20,000 more died because of disease. In October, a report from a French military official estimated half a million deaths. Governor General Jean Decoux wrote in his memoirs \"A la barre de l'Indochine\" that about 1 million northerners had starved to death. Modern Vietnamese historians estimate between 1 and 2 million deaths. Ho Chi Minh, in his Proclamation of Independence of the Democratic Republic of Vietnam on September 2, 1945, used a figure of 2 million.\n\nIn March 1945 the Viet Minh (a communist-controlled common front fighting for the independence of Vietnam) urged the population to ransack rice warehouses and to refuse to pay their taxes. Between 75 and 100 warehouses were consequently raided. The rebellion against both the effects of the famine and the authorities that were seen as responsible for it bolstered the Viet Minh's popularity which helped it recruit many members at the time.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1859981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859981", "title": "Odakyu 30000 series EXE", "text": "Odakyu 30000 series EXE\n\nThe (\"Excellent Express\") is an electric multiple unit (EMU) train type operated by the private railway operator Odakyu Electric Railway in Japan on Odakyu Odawara Line and Odakyu Enoshima Line \"Romancecar\" services since 1996.\n\nSeven 4+6-car trainsets (70 vehicles) were built between 1996 and 1999 to replace ageing Odakyu 3100 series NSE trains. Unlike earlier Romancecar trainsets, which used articulated carriages, the 30000 series sets have 20 m long bogie cars. The inner driving cabs of the 4+6-car formations have gangway doors.\n\nThe passenger doors use wide sliding doors, with wide doors on cars 2, 5, and 8 to provide wheelchair accessibility.\n\nThe 30000 series trains are used on Odakyu Odawara Line \"Hakone\" services between in Tokyo and Hakone-Yumoto Station in Kanagawa Prefecture (about 88 km), as well as \"Sagami\" and \"Homeway\" services. They are also on Odakyu Enoshima Line \"Enoshima\" services between Shinjuku and .\n\nTrainsets were introduced on combined \"Hakone\" and \"Enoshima\" services, with trains dividing at , and later at . 10-car \"Hakone\" services to Hakone-Yumoto also divide at with just the 6-car sets continuing onward to Hakone-Yumoto.\n\n, the fleet consists of seven 4+6-car trainsets, formed as follows, with car 1 at the western end. All seven sets are based at Ebina Depot.\n\nCars 2, 3, 5, 8, and 9 are each fitted with a single-arm pantograph.\nOnly one bogie on car 9 is motored.\n\nRefurbished trainsets are formed as follows, with five motored cars per ten-car formation.\n\nCars 2, 3, 5, 8, and 9 are each fitted with a PT7113-A single-arm pantograph.\n\nPassenger accommodation consists of monoclass unidirectional 2+2 abreast seating, with wide seats and a seating pitch of . The first eight half-sets delivered had green-coloured seats in the six-cars sets (evoking the forests of Hakone) and blue-coloured seats in the four-car sets (evoking the sea of Enoshima), but from 1999 onward, the seats in all sets was standardized with grey and brown seat covers. Wheelchair spaces are located in cars 5 and 8.\n\nRefreshment counters are provided in cars 3 and 9. Toilets are provided in cars 2, 5, and 8, and the toilet in car 5 is a universal access type.\n\nThe first trains entered revenue service on 23 March 1996.\n\nThe fleet was built between 1996 and 1999 in three batches as follows.\n\nThe fleet is scheduled to undergo a programme of refurbishment from fiscal 2016, with the first 4+6-car trainset treated returning to service in March 2017, rebranded \"EXEα\".\n\nRefurbishment is being carried out by Nippon Sharyo, with the design overseen by Noriaki Okabe Architecture Network. It includes the following changes:\n\nThe first train set to be refurbished, four-car set 30051, was returned to Odakyu from the Nippon Sharyo factory in Toyokawa, Aichi, in November 2016.\n\nThe Odakyu 30000 series EXE is featured as a non-driveable train in the \"Microsoft Train Simulator\" computer game.\n\n"}
{"id": "1859988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859988", "title": "Compensation (chess)", "text": "Compensation (chess)\n\nIn chess, compensation is the typically short-term positional advantages a player has in exchange for typically disadvantage. Short term advantages involve initiative and .\nCompensation can include:\n\nA rook on the seventh rank (the opponent's second rank) is usually very powerful, as it threatens the opponent's unadvanced pawns and hems in the enemy king. A rook on the seventh rank is sufficient compensation for a pawn . In this position from a game between Lev Polugaevsky and Larry Evans, the rook on the seventh rank enables White to draw, despite being a pawn down .\n\nA famous 1960 game between future world champions Boris Spassky and Bobby Fischer began with a King's Gambit opening. White sacrifices a pawn on his second move:\nreaching the position shown (first diagram). Fischer examines an alternate fifth move for Black:\n\nreaching the position shown (second diagram), where Fischer explains \"White has more than enough compensation for the pawn.\" \nPossession of the often yields long-term compensation for sacrificed material.\n\nAn unbalanced position has arisen straight out of the opening, in which, with an open center, Black has a pawn and the for the exchange.\n\nA relatively interesting middlegame has been reached. White is up the exchange, while Black is compensated by two active bishops forming a crisscross pattern. \n\n sometimes give the defender drawing chances in the long run, even if the opponent has a material advantage of one or two pawns or even the exchange.\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "1859992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859992", "title": "Jesse D. Bright", "text": "Jesse D. Bright\n\nJesse David Bright (December 18, 1812 – May 20, 1875) was the ninth Lieutenant Governor of Indiana and U.S. Senator from Indiana who served as President pro tempore of the Senate on three separate occasions. He was the only senator from a Northern state to be expelled for being a Confederate sympathizer. As a leading Copperhead he opposed the Civil War.\n\nBright was born into a German family in Norwich, New York, which moved to Madison, Indiana in 1820. Bright attended public schools as a child. He studied law and was admitted to the bar in 1831, commencing practice in Madison. He was elected a judge of the probate court of Jefferson County, Indiana, in 1834, was a United States Marshal for the district of Indiana from 1840 to 1841 and served in the Indiana Senate from 1841 to 1843. In 1842, he was elected Lieutenant Governor of Indiana and served as such from 1843 to 1845.\n\nBright was elected as a Democrat to the United States Senate in 1844, was reelected in 1850 and 1856, serving from 1845 to 1862. He was chairman of the Committee on Enrolled Bills from 1845 to 1847, of the Committee on Public Buildings from 1845 to 1847, of the Committee on Revolutionary Claims from 1847 to 1849, of the Committee on Roads and Canals from 1849 to 1855 and of the Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds from 1857 to 1861. He was also President pro tempore of the Senate from 1854 to 1856, 1856 to 1857, and in 1860. As such, he was first in the presidential line of succession in the first two terms due to the death of Vice President William R. King in April 1853.\n\nIn the Senate, Bright was not known as a great orator, but was very able in committee work. One enemy of his was Illinois Senator Stephen A. Douglas after he voted against keeping Bright in the Senate. He was, however, a very close friend and confidant of William Hayden English, a U.S. Representative from Indiana. In 1857, President James Buchanan offered him the post of Secretary of State, but he declined.\n\nIn the beginning of 1862, the Senate of the 37th Congress, which was composed of twenty-nine Republicans and ten Democrats, voted to expel him for acknowledging Jefferson Davis as President of the Confederate States and for facilitating the sale of arms to the Confederacy. The issue was brought up when Minnesota Senator Morton S. Wilkinson introduced the Senate to a letter dated March 1, 1861, written to Davis and signed by Bright, involving firearm trades. The letter was found on a captured gun trader crossing the Confederate border during the First Battle of Bull Run.\n\nHe was the fourteenth senator expelled from Congress during the Civil War, and was (as of 2019) the last senator ever to be expelled. Soon after his expulsion from the Senate, Union authorities confiscated his property in Port Fulton, Indiana, which became Jefferson General Hospital, the third-largest hospital during the Civil War. He was an unsuccessful candidate in filling the vacancy caused by his own expulsion in 1863. Bright's longtime intra-party rival, Envoy to Prussia and War Democrat Joseph A. Wright, succeeded him in the Senate.\n\nAfter losing his home in Indiana, Bright moved to Covington, Kentucky. He was a member of the Kentucky House of Representatives from 1867 to 1871, was a presidential elector on the Democratic ticket from Kentucky in the 1868 presidential election, and was president of the Raymond City Coal Company from 1871 to 1875. He moved to Baltimore, Maryland, in 1874 and died there on May 20, 1875. He was interred in Green Mount Cemetery in Baltimore.\n\n\n Retrieved on 2009-5-12\n"}
{"id": "1860005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860005", "title": "The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume One, 1929–1964", "text": "The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume One, 1929–1964\n\nThe Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume One, 1929–1964 is a 1970 anthology of English language science fiction short stories, edited by Robert Silverberg. Author Lester del Rey said that \"it even lives up to its subtitle\", referring to the volume's boast of containing \"The Greatest Science-Fiction Stories of All Time\".\n\nIt was first published by Doubleday and subsequently reprinted by Avon Books in July 1971 (Library of Congress Card Catalog Number: 70-97691; ), and later by Orb.\n\nThe book was first published in the UK in 1971 by Victor Gollancz Ltd and in paperback by First Sphere Books in 1972 (in two volumes, split after \"First Contact\").\n\nThe content of the book was decided by a vote of the members of the Science Fiction Writers of America, choosing among short stories (up to 15,000 words long) that predated the Nebula Awards. Among the top 15 vote-getters, one (Arthur C. Clarke's \"The Star\") was disqualified in order to prevent any writer from being represented twice; it was replaced by the 16th-place finisher (\"Arena\"), and the resulting list of 15 stories was included in the collection. Silverberg then used his judgment, rather than the strict vote count, in selecting 11 of the next 15, for a total of 26 stories.\n\nIn 1973, it was followed by \"The Science Fiction Hall of Fame, Volume Two: The Greatest Science Fiction Novellas of All Time\". Further volumes were published, consisting of early Nebula winners, thus straying outside the original \"pre-Nebula\" concept.\n\nAlgis Budrys, finding the story selection inexact, concluded that \"the book is as advertised – a basic one-volume library of the short science fiction story,\" but that \"you should also leave space beside it.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1860007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860007", "title": "British Hovercraft Corporation", "text": "British Hovercraft Corporation\n\nBritish Hovercraft Corporation (BHC) was a British hovercraft manufacturer that designed and produced multiple types of vehicles for both commercial and civil purposes.\n\nCreated with the intention of producing viable commercial hovercraft in March 1966, BHC was the result of an corporate merger between the Saunders-Roe division of Westland Aircraft and Vickers Supermarine's hovercraft interests. None of the Vickers hovercraft designs reached quantity production, manufacturing efforts being centered upon Saunders-Roe's existing portfolio. Perhaps the most high-profile vehicle produced by BHC was the large SR.N4 \"Mountbatten\" class hovercraft; it was the largest civil-orientated hovercraft to ever be put into service; several were completed and used in revenue services across the English Channel for multiple decades.\n\nLater on, the BHC developed their own newer hovercraft designs, such as the military-oriented BH.7 \"Wellington\" class and the medium-size diesel-powered British Hovercraft Corporation AP1-88. These vehicles made advances in the efficiency and viability of hovercraft; the AP1-88 was produced in quantity not only by BHC but also under licence in both Australia and China. In 1970, Westland Aircraft acquired the shares from the other firm's owners, making the BHC a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westland. During the 1980s, the firm's focus on hovercraft declined as it became increasingly involved in the manufacture of composites for other company's products. In 1984, the company was renamed \"Westland Aerospace\".\n\nDuring the late 1950s and early 1960s, British inventor Sir Christopher Cockerell had, in cooperation with British aerospace manufacturer Saunders-Roe, developed a pioneering new form of transportation, embodied in the form of the experimental SR.N1 vehicle, which became widely known as the hovercraft. British manufacturer Saunders-Roe proceeded with work on various hovercraft designs, successfully developing multiple commercially viable vehicles. These included the SR.N4, a large cross-Channel ferry capable of seating up to 418 passengers along with 60 cars, and the SR.N5, the first commercially-active hovercraft.\n\nBritish Hovercraft Corporation (BHC) emerged as a corporate entity in March 1966, at which point the Saunders-Roe division of Westland Aircraft and Vickers Supermarine (the two largest hovercraft manufacturers in the world) were merged. Following the merger, Westland Aircraft held 65% of the shares in BHC, while Vickers had a 25% stake in the venture and the British state-owned National Research Development Corporation also held 10% of the shares. Despite the inclusion of Vickers' hovercraft venture, none of its designs were ever taken through to the manufacturing stage; instead, production activity was centred on the existing designs produced by Saunders-Roe, including the SR.N5 \"Warden\" class, the stretched SR.N6 \"Winchester\" class, and the large SR.N4 \"Mountbatten\" class hovercraft.\n\nSubstantial support for the hovercraft industry, and BHC specifically, was sourced directly from the British Government. By 1969, contributions from the British state averaged around £3 million per year; of this, roughly one-third was attributed to research and development contracts, while the remaining two-thirds was divided between financing the Joint Services Military Trials Unit based at Lee-on-Solent and the National Physical Laboratory's Hythe division. In addition to financing, the British Government was also keen to implement a regulatory framework for the hovercraft sector, including the implementation of safety certification, leading to the Hovercraft Act of 1968.\n\nHowever, not all commitments made by the British government would be ultimately be fulfilled. As early as 1964, Saunders-Roe had been engaged in studies of very large hovercraft, including a prospective 2,000 ton freighter-orientated vehicle, in addition to its ongoing interest in the development of smaller-scale hovercraft. Work on giant ocean-going hovercraft continued under the BHC, but ultimately did not lead to any vehicle larger than the SR.N4 being produced. During 1968, the British government decided to withdraw its backing for the company's feasibility study on large hovercraft, resulting in the BHC's development programme being curtailed.\nAs a result of high oil prices following the 1973 oil crisis and the 1979 energy crisis, the profitability of the first generation of commercial hovercraft was badly hit, undermining operators' profitability and provoking requests from customers for more fuel efficient vehicles. Furthermore, hovercraft were not the only high-speed water vehicles making advances at this time; competing technologies included the hydrofoil and the pump-jet. As early as 1969, rival hovercraft manufacturers had encountered commercial difficulties and been liquidated.\n\nThroughout the 1970s, the BHC made several advances in its skirt technology, such as requiring less power to keep inflated; the company also produced extensions of its existing hovercraft range, which had the benefit of increasing payload capacity. It was also recognised that there were other means to drive down costs and thereby improve the hovercraft's commercial viability. These early vehicles had been powered by gas turbine engines, which were typically similar, or identical, to the turboshaft engines used on helicopters; however, by the 1970s, recent advances in diesel engines had made the prospects for applying an entirely different form of powerplant to a new generation of hovercraft increasingly attractive.\n\nThe BHC successfully developed its own original hovercraft designs during its existence. The BH.7 \"Wellington\" class is a military-oriented model, while the British Hovercraft Corporation AP1-88 is a medium-size diesel-powered hovercraft. The AP1-88 was notably cheaper to operate and to purchase, being half the price of the older SR.N6 in both respects. The type was produced in quantity not only by the BHC, but was also constructed under licence by companies in both Australia and China. While plans to procure the BH.7 for the British Army were terminated during 1968, government support continued to be forthcoming; the Ministry of Technology ordered a single BH.7, helping to facilitate the launch of a Navy-orientated version.\n\nIn 1970, Westland Aircraft acquired the shares of the other parties, resulting in the BHC becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westland. In 1971, Westland successfully acquired the competing British rival Cushioncraft from Britten-Norman.\nDuring 1977, the BHC created the largest Union Flag in the world. It was painted on the doors of their hangar on the seafront at East Cowes to celebrate the Silver Jubilee of Elizabeth II.\n\nIn 1984, the company was renamed \"Westland Aerospace\"; around this time, design work on new hovercraft effectively ceased. Instead, the company became increasingly involved with the manufacture of composites, which were widely used throughout the aerospace industry.\n\nInherited designs from the Saunders Roe division of Westland Aircraft:\n\nOther:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860017", "title": "Jorge Lanata", "text": "Jorge Lanata\n\nJorge Lanata (born 12 September 1960 in Mar del Plata) is an Argentine journalist and writer, born in Mar del Plata in 1960. He founded the leftist Argentine newspaper Pagina 12 in 1987 and co-founded the daily newspaper Crítica de la Argentina on March 2, 2008, and was its director until April 4, 2009. His grandfather was Agustín Lanata, a well known footballer of the second decade of the 20th century.\n\nHe started his career at 14 writing short news for Radio Nacional. Since 1977 he was a collaborator of several written media: \"Siete Días\" magazine, \"Clarín Revista\". In 1983 he entered the news program of Radio Belgrano and made investigation reports for \"Sin Anestesia\" show, while collaborating with \"Humor\", \"El Periodista\" and \"El Porteño\" magazines. \n\nHe was a founder of the \"Cooperativa de Periodistas\" that purchased the monthly magazine \"El Porteño\", and was its editor in chief. In 1987 he founded \"Página 12\" newspaper, and was its director until 1994. From 1990 until 1993 he hosted \"Hora 25\" radio show, and between 1994 and 1996 \"Rompe/Cabezas\" (1995 Martín Fierro Award for best journalistic show in radio). He regularly published in media abroad (\"Miami Herald\", \"El Espectador\" -Colombia-, among others). \n\nHe directed Veintitrés (\"Twenty-Three\") magazine. He hosted \"Día D\" (\"D-day\"), a very popular TV show that achieved Martín Fierro award for best journalistic television show in 1996 and 1997, and Clarín Award for best TV show in 2003. Lanata himself achieved a Marín Fierro Award for Best Journalistic TV Host in 1996, 1997 and 2004.\n\nHe produced the documentary series BRIC: The New World in 2010.\n\nIn 2012 Lanata came back to TV with a new show called \"Periodismo para todos\". The 2013 edition worked with the case of the K money trail.\n\nIn December 2015 the Citizen's Lab, at the Munk School for Global Affairs, at University of Toronto, identified Lanata and several other South American opposition figures as having their cellphones targeted for extrajudicial surveillance by government associated hackers.\n\nIn 1987 he published \"El nuevo periodismo\" (\"The New Journalism\") as a compiler, and the following year \"La guerra de las piedras\" (\"War of the Stones\", report). He also published \"Polaroids\" (short stories, 1991), \"Historia de Teller\" (novel, 1992), \"Cortinas de Humo\" (\"Smokescreens\", 1995, in collaboration with American journalist Joe Goldman), an investigation on the 1994 terrorist attack to the Argentine Israelite Mutual Association (AMIA), and \"Vuelta de página\" (\"Turn of the Page\", 1997), a collection of press articles written throughout his whole journalistic career. One of his short stories, \"Oculten la luna\" (\"Hide the Moon\"), was included in \"Prospero's Mirror\" (Curbstone Press of united States). His books \"Argentinos 1\" and \"Argentinos 2\" sold more than 340.000 copies, and were edited in Spain in a single volume. In 2004 he published \"ADN, mapa genético de los defectos argentinos\" (\"DNA, Genetic Map of Argentine Faults\", essay).\n\nIn October 2004, he premiered \"Deuda\" (\"Debt\"), a documentary on foreign debt and his \"opera prima\" in cinema discussing bureaucratic corruption and ignorance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860026", "title": "Festetics family", "text": "Festetics family\n\nFestetics de Tolna (singular, not plural) or Feštetić in Croatian is the name of a historic family of Hungarian Princes and Counts of Croatian origin. Prominent family during the Austro-Hungarian Empire they are mostly known for the baroque Festetics Palace and the viennese Prince Tasziló Festetics.\n\nOn 8 August 1746, Josef and Kristof Festetics (the two sons of the second marriage of Paul Festetics) added de Tolna to their surname (von Tolna in Austria). On 5 November 1766, Josef's eldest son Pal Festetics de Tolna (1725–1782) was made a count by Queen Maria Theresa of Hungary. On 24 February 1772, Kristof's eldest son Pal Festetics de Tolna (1722–1782) was made a count by Queen Maria Theresa of Hungary, who was also Archduchess of Austria and Holy Roman Empress. The title of count was inheritable by all male-line descendants.\n\nOn 21 June 1911, Count Tassilo Festetics de Tolna (1850–1933) was made a prince (\"Fürst\") with the style Serene Highness (\"Durchlaucht\") by King Francis Joseph I of Hungary. His grandson, Prince Georg (born 1940) is the current head of the house.\n\nIn 1973 Dénes Festetics de Tolna (1943) was incorporated in the Dutch nobility with the title of count; the title of count(ess) is inheritable by all male-line descendants.\n\nAmong the other prominent members of the family are:\n\nFestetics may also refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860028", "title": "1998 MTV Movie Awards", "text": "1998 MTV Movie Awards\n\nThe 1998 MTV Movie Awards were hosted by Samuel L. Jackson.\n\n\nTitanic\n\nLeonardo DiCaprio – \"Titanic\"\n\nNeve Campbell – \"Scream 2\"\n\nHeather Graham – \"Boogie Nights\"\n\nNicolas Cage and John Travolta – \"Face/Off\"\n\nMike Myers – \"\"\n\nJim Carrey – \"Liar Liar\"\n\n\"Men in Black\" by Will Smith — \"Men in Black\"\n\nDrew Barrymore and Adam Sandler – \"The Wedding Singer\"\n\nSpeedboat Chase - Face/Off\n\nMike Myers — \"Soul Bossa Nova\" (from \"\")\n\nWill Smith vs. Cockroach – \"Men in Black\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860031", "title": "Riverside, Cardiff", "text": "Riverside, Cardiff\n\nRiverside () is an inner-city area and community of Cardiff, Wales, next to the River Taff. Riverside is also the name of the electoral ward, which includes the district of Pontcanna, to the north. The population of the community in 2011 was 13,771. Pontcanna was removed from the community in 2016. \n\nRiverside consists mainly of terraced houses and until 2016 the community included the grand houses of Pontcanna and lining Cathedral Road. The area has a diverse population including Bangladeshi, Sikh and Chinese heritage, particularly to the south of Cowbridge Road and around Tudor Street.\n\nRiverside has a number of Chinese, Halal, and Indian shops selling a range of foods. Because of its close proximity to the Principality Stadium and the city centre, Riverside has become a focus for Cardiff's rapidly expanding budget accommodation sector, with two backpacking hostels in close proximity of Fitzhamon Embankment.\n\nIn addition to the two public gardens in Riverside, Despenser Gardens and Clare Gardens, Riverside residents use Sophia Gardens immediately to the north. Sophia Gardens was once in Riverside, and was the first home ground of Cardiff City F.C., who in their early years were Riverside A.F.C.\n\nThe 2011 census recorded that 1,475 people in the Riverside community could speak Welsh (13.7% of the population over three years old), a small rise on the 2001 census.\n\nThe former HTV television studios in nearby Pontcanna, which produced Welsh language programmes, was a boost to the language locally.\n\nThe Riverside electoral ward is in the parliamentary constituency of Cardiff West. It is bounded by the wards of Gabalfa to the north; Cathays to the east; Grangetown to the south; and Canton and Llandaff to the west.\n\nUntil 2016 the Riverside local government community included Pontcanna to the north, these districts now have separate community status. However, neither Riverside or Pontcanna have a community council.\n\nRiverside Real Food Market began as a Christmas Market in 1998 in a nearby park. The market moved to the wide pavement of Fitzhamon Embankment beside the River Taff, and has stalls from up to thirty retailers every Sunday.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860034", "title": "Royal Typewriter Company", "text": "Royal Typewriter Company\n\nThe Royal Typewriter Company was a manufacturer of typewriters headquartered in New York City with its factory in Hartford, Connecticut.\n\nThe Royal Typewriter Company was founded by Edward B. Hess and Lewis C. Myers in January 1904 in a machine shop in Brooklyn, New York.\n\nIn 1905, with their limited cash running out, Hess and Myers turned to Thomas Fortune Ryan, the wealthy financier. They demonstrated their machine which had numerous innovations including: friction-free, ball-bearing, one-track rail to support the weight of the carriage, a new paper feed, a lighter and faster typebar action, and complete visibility of the words as they are typed. Ryan was impressed and put up $220,000 in exchange for financial control.\n\nIn March 1906 the first Royal typewriter, the Royal Standard, was sold. The Royal Standard was different from its competition in that it had a \"flatbed\" design.\n\nWith demand increasing, Royal purchased 5¼ acres in Hartford, Connecticut, as the new site for its manufacturing facility. Original plans called for floor capacity of and cost $350,000 to build. In 1908, Royal began manufacturing there.\n\nIn 1911, Royal introduced the Royal 5 typewriter, which also utilized the \"flatbed\" design.\n\nRoyal's first model utilizing the \"upright\" design was the Royal 10, which came out in 1914. Original models had two beveled glass panes on each side.\n\nIn 1926 Royal introduced the \"Roytype\" brand name for its line of typewriter ribbons and carbon paper.\n\nRoyal entered the portable typewriter market in 1926 - years behind its competitors such as Underwood, LC Smith Corona, and Remington.\n\nIn order to promote the new portable Royal president G. E. Smith secured the exclusive sponsorship of the September 23, 1926, Dempsey–Tunney championship fight for $35,000. This boxing match was the first nationwide radio hook-up.\n\n\"The Daily News\" of New York estimated that 20 million fans from coast to coast listened to the broadcast.\n\nRoyal's introduction of its portable line of typewriters was an immediate success and launched the company to become the world's #1 selling typewriter brand.\n\nOn October 9, 1926, the \"Hartford Daily Courant\" reported that Royal had just produced its one millionth typewriter.\n\nTo promote the ruggedness of its typewriters, George Edward Smith, president of Royal, bought a Ford-Stout tri-motor airplane in August 1927. This plane, commonly called the Royal Airtruck, dropped over 200 typewriters in crates with parachutes to dealers over the eastern seaboard of the USA on its maiden flight. Royal eventually delivered over 11,000 typewriters this way with only ten being damaged.\n\nIn January 1941, Edward B. Hess, one of Royal's founders and vice presidents, died in Orlando, Florida. Hess was a prolific inventor and held over 140 patents relating to the typewriter.\n\nWorld War II brought tremendous change to Royal. In order to aid the war effort, Royal converted its manufacturing to war work exclusively. Royal manufactured machine guns, rifles, bullets, propellers, and spare parts for airplane engines. It wouldn't be until September 1945 that Royal started typewriter production full-time again and not until December 1948 that it caught up on its pre-war backlog.\n\nIn 1947, Royal produced, in limited quantity, a gold-plated version of its popular Quiet Deluxe model. Ian Fleming, the British novelist who wrote the James Bond novels, used one. Many other writers, including Ernest Hemingway, used a Royal typewriter.\n\nOther typewriter manufacturers utilized Royal's innovations in their typewriters. In 1947, Royal won patent suits against Remington and LC Smith Corona.\n\nIn February 1950, Royal introduced its first electric typewriter.\n\nLewis C. Myers, the surviving founder of the Royal Typewriter Company, died in Freeport, New York at the age of 84.\n\nWorldwide demand caused Royal to open a new factory in Leiden, the Netherlands, to produce typewriters in 1953.\n\nIn April 1954, the Royal typewriter Company announced its plan to merge with McBee, a leading manufacturer of accounting and statistical machines and supplies. By July, Royal stockholders had approved the plan and Royal McBee was formed.\n\nFrom 1954 to 1964 sales soared from $84.7 million to over $113 million. Royal McBee was consistently listed as a Fortune 500 company.\nIn December 1957, Royal announced it had just produced its 10 millionth typewriter. Congratulations were received from U.S. Secretary of Commerce Sinclair Weeks and the Governor of Connecticut, Abe Ribicoff.\n\nIn December 1964, Litton Industries' stockholders approved the acquisition of Royal McBee. The deal became final in March 1965. Litton would change the name of Royal McBee back to Royal Typewriter and reorganize the company into five divisions: Royal Typewriter, Roytype Consumer Products, Roytype Supplies, McBee Systems, and RMB.\n\nOctober 1966 saw Litton announce plans to acquire the English typewriter producer Imperial, through its Royal Typewriter division.\n\nIn January 1969, Litton Industries further cemented its hold on the typewriter market by purchasing the German typewriter manufacturer, Triumph Adler. Almost immediately, the U.S. government filed an anti-trust suit against Litton accusing it of creating a monopoly. The FTC ruled in March 1973 that Litton had to divest itself of Triumph Adler. Litton appealed and, in a rare reversal, the FTC issued a ruling in April 1975 stating that Litton could keep Triumph Adler.\n\nIn March 1979, Volkswagen, seeking to diversify, announced its intention to acquire a 55% stake in Triumph Adler. Included in the deal was Royal Typewriter.\n\nSales continued to climb and by 1982 sales in North America of Royal and Triumph Adler totaled over $600 million.\n\nIn April 1986, Olivetti, the Italian typewriter/computer manufacturer, announced plans to purchase Triumph Adler and Royal from Volkswagen. For nearly two decades Royal was a part of the Olivetti family.\n\nIn September 2004, Royal became a private American company again.\n\nNow known as Royal Consumer Information Products Inc., Royal’s product line has evolved to include cash registers, shredders, personal digital assistants (PDAs)/electronic organizers, postal scales, weather stations, and a wide range of original and compatible/remanufactured imaging supplies supporting today’s most popular printers, faxes, and copiers.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Royal also produced consumer daisy wheel printers like the Royal LetterMaster and Royal OfficeMaster 2000, the former being a cheaper model.\n\nRoyal McBee sold and serviced early computers RPC-4000 and RPC-9000. Royal McBee partnered with General Precision in the Royal Precision Electronic Computer Company, which sold and serviced the LGP-30 (in 1956) and LGP-21 (in 1963) single-user desk computers manufactured by the Librascope division of General Precision. Royal McBee was based in Port Chester, New York.\n\nThe RPC-4000 is the computer on which Mel Kaye performed a legendary programming task in machine code, retold by Ed Nather in the hacker epic \"The Story of Mel\".\n\nA Royal typewriter is a large story element in Stephen King's novel \"Misery\".\n\n\"60 Minutes\" correspondent Morley Safer was known to write all of his scripts on a Royal typewriter.\n\nA Royal typewriter with a Prestige Elite typeface was one of the items found at Zodiac suspect Arthur Leigh Allen's apartment, matching the typewriter the Zodiac killer used to write letters sent to the Riverside Police Department.\n\nJessica Fletcher used a Royal typewriter to write her novels.\n\nMason Williams threw a Royal Model X typewriter out of a speeding car driven by Ed Ruscha for their art book \"Royal Road Test\" (1967).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860050", "title": "Daphnée Duplaix", "text": "Daphnée Duplaix\n\nDaphnée Lynn Duplaix Samuel (born August 18, 1976) is an American actress and model.\n\nIn early \"Playboy\" publications her first name is spelled Daphneé (the acute accent on the 2nd e). Her \"Playboy\" centerfold is signed \"Daphnee\", and she refers to herself by that on her official web site.\n\nDuplaix was born August 18, 1976, in Manhattan, New York and is of Haitian, French, and Italian descent.\n\nAfter appearing in \"Playboy\" magazine as Playmate of the Month July 1997, she appeared in several \"Playboy\" videos. Her Playmate pictorial was photographed by Richard Fegley.\n\nDuplaix became a regular cast member on the American television soap opera \"Passions\" in 2004, playing Valerie Davis until 2008. In January 2009, Duplaix served as a host of the Playboy TV game show \"Show Us Your Wits\". She next began appearing as Rachel Gannon on the ABC soap opera \"One Life to Live\" on April 7, 2009.\n\nDuplaix was previously married to Ron Samuel, with whom she has three sons. On June 28, 2014, she married Grady Heiberg. They have a daughter born in 2015.\n"}
{"id": "1860054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860054", "title": "Colonization of the outer Solar System", "text": "Colonization of the outer Solar System\n\nMany parts of the outer Solar System have been considered for possible future colonization. Most of the larger moons of the outer planets contain water ice, liquid water, and organic compounds that might be useful for sustaining human life.\n\nThere have also been proposals to place robotic aerostats in the upper atmospheres of the Solar System's gas giant planets for exploration and possibly mining of helium-3, which could have a very high value per unit mass as a thermonuclear fuel.\n\nThe Jovian system in general has particular disadvantages for colonization, including its severe radiation environment and its particularly deep gravity well. Its radiation would deliver about 3,600 rems per day to unshielded colonists on Io and about 540 rems per day to unshielded colonists on Europa. Exposure to about 75 rems over a few days is enough to cause radiation poisoning, and about 500 rems over a few days is fatal.\n\nJupiter itself, like the other gas giants, is not generally considered a good candidate for colonization. There is no accessible surface on which to land, and the light hydrogen atmosphere would not provide good buoyancy for some kind of aerial habitat as has been proposed for Venus.\n\nIo is not ideal for colonization, due to its hostile environment. The moon is under influence of high tidal forces, causing high volcanic activity on the moon. Jupiter's strong radiation belt overshadows Io, delivering 3,600 rem a day to the moon. The moon is also extremely dry. Io is the least ideal place for colonization of the four Galilean moons.\nDespite this, its volcanoes could be energy resources for the other moons, better to colonize.\n\nThe Artemis Project proposed a plan to colonize Europa. Scientists would inhabit igloos and drill down into the Europan ice crust, exploring any subsurface ocean. The report also discusses use of air pockets for human habitation.\n\nGanymede is the largest moon in the Solar System. Ganymede is the only moon with a magnetosphere, but it is overshadowed by Jupiter's magnetic field. Ganymede receives about 8 rem of radiation per day.\n\nDue to its distance from Jupiter's powerful radiation belt, Callisto is subject to only 0.01 rem a day. When NASA carried out a study called \"HOPE\" (Revolutionary Concepts for Human Outer Planet Exploration) regarding the future exploration of the Solar System, the target chosen was Callisto. It might be possible to build a surface base that would produce fuel for further exploration of the Solar System.\n\nThe Keck Observatory announced in 2006 that the binary Jupiter trojan 617 Patroclus, and possibly many other Jupiter trojans, are likely composed of water ice, with a layer of dust. This suggests that mining water and other volatiles in this region and transporting them elsewhere in the Solar System, perhaps via the proposed Interplanetary Transport Network, may be feasible in the not-so-distant future. This could make colonization of the Moon, Mercury and main-belt asteroids more practical.\n\nRobert Zubrin identified Saturn, Uranus and Neptune as \"the Persian Gulf of the Solar System\", as the largest sources of deuterium and helium-3 to drive a fusion economy, with Saturn the most important and most valuable of the three, because of its relative proximity, low radiation, and excellent system of moons.\n\nZubrin identified Titan as possessing an abundance of all the elements necessary to support life, making Titan perhaps the most advantageous locale in the outer Solar System for colonization. He said, \"In certain ways, Titan is the most hospitable extraterrestrial world within the Solar System for human colonization.\" A widely published expert on terraforming, Christopher McKay, is also a co-investigator on the \"Huygens\" probe that landed on Titan in January 2005.\n\nThe surface of Titan is mostly uncratered and thus inferred to be very young and active, and probably composed of mostly water ice, and lakes of liquid hydrocarbons (methane/ethane) in its polar regions. While the temperature is cryogenic (95 K) it should be able to support a base, but more information regarding Titan's surface and the activities on it is necessary. The thick atmosphere and the weather, such as potential flash floods, are also factors to consider.\n\nOn March 9, 2006, NASA's \"Cassini\" space probe found possible evidence of liquid water on Enceladus. According to that article, \"pockets of liquid water may be no more than tens of meters below the surface.\" These findings were confirmed in 2014 by NASA. This means liquid water could be collected much more easily and safely on Enceladus than, for instance, on Europa (see above). Discovery of water, especially liquid water, generally makes a celestial body a much more likely candidate for colonization. An alternative model of Enceladus' activity is the decomposition of methane/water clathrates – a process requiring lower temperatures than liquid water eruptions. The higher density of Enceladus indicates a larger than Saturnian average silicate core that could provide materials for base operations.\n\nBecause Uranus has the lowest escape velocity of the four gas giants, it has been proposed as a mining site for helium-3. If human supervision of the robotic activity proved necessary, one of Uranus's natural satellites might serve as a base.\n\nIt is hypothesized that one of Neptune's satellites could be used for colonization. Triton's surface shows signs of extensive geological activity that implies a subsurface ocean, perhaps composed of ammonia/water. If technology advanced to the point that tapping such geothermal energy was possible, it could make colonizing a cryogenic world like Triton feasible, supplemented by nuclear fusion power.\n\nThe noted physicist Freeman Dyson identified comets, rather than planets, as the major potential \"habitat\" of life in space.\n\nThere would be many problems in colonizing the outer Solar System. These include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860065", "title": "Miami Dade College", "text": "Miami Dade College\n\nMiami Dade College (Miami Dade, MDC or Dade) is a public college in Miami, Florida. Founded in 1959, it has a total of eight campuses and twenty-one outreach centers throughout Miami-Dade County. It is the largest college in the Florida College System with over 165,000 students and the second-largest college or university in the United States. Miami Dade College enrolls a significantly larger amount of Hispanic students each year compared to other colleges and universities in the state of Florida. Miami Dade College has 8 different campuses that make up the college and the first being the North Campus.\n\nInitially established on the farm of a county high school, Dade County Junior College—as it was formerly known—had its modest beginnings. Like most organizations at the time, it was a segregated institution. It wasn't until 1962 that desegregation took full effect; black and white students could share full schedules together. In 1963, the first new building was constructed, and Peter Masiko would become president for the next 18 years. As the years progressed, more campuses began opening across the county: the Kendall Campus and Wolfson Campus.\n\nInitially, the college had an open admissions policy, meaning anyone who could afford to pay was allowed to study at the campus. Due to this, the college aimed to improve its academic stance among alumni. To encourage this movement, a Medical Center was built for students in Allied Health and Nursing (RN) programs. As the number of Cuban exiles and refugees began to rise in 1980, and outreach center was built in the city of Hialeah. This allowed refugees and immigrants educational opportunities that they wouldn't be able to achieve otherwise. Another outreach center, the InterAmerican center, was built to accommodate bilingual education. The Homestead Campus was built in 1990 in Homestead to relieve the concerns of students having to drive to the Kendall Campus In Miami. In the mid-1990s, the college began to rely heavily on the Miami Dade College Foundation as the Florida legislature reduced the state's education budget. The college also had to figure out new ways of recruiting students and it began its \"Successful Alumni\" campaign in the late 1990s, marketing the success of the college's alumni to local prospective students.\n\nBeginning in 2001, the college implemented a strategic plan to revamp the college and its recruiting goals. In 2002, the college disbanded its Honors Program and created The Honors College for talented high school graduates. The Honors College is a representation of Miami Dade College's most academically-gifted students in different fields and was originally based on the three larger campuses (Wolfson, Kendall, and North).In 2006, Miami Dade College surpassed 1.5 million students enrolled throughout its history. In 2007, The Honors College expanded into the InterAmerican Campus with The Honors College Dual Language Honors Program to tailor to the needs of the growing Spanish-speaking population in the United States as well as abroad. The Dual Language Honors Program opened its doors to bilingual students who wish to continue their careers with professional fluency in the English and Spanish languages. In 2009, The MDC Honors College Dual Language Program earned the merit of Innovation of the Year in the Learning and Teaching Department from the League for Innovation. In 2018, Miami Dade was awarded and recognized for its path to economic and social mobility by the Aspen Institute. The award received was the $1 million Aspen Prize.\n\nOn February 1, 2019, Eduardo Padron, Miami Dade College President, announced that he plans to retire from the position he has held since 1995.\nMiami Dade College has seven campuses and two centers, with its main campus being the Wolfson Campus in downtown Miami.These eight campuses and various outreach centers are located throughout Miami-Dade County. The Honors College is currently represented on four campuses, with a new bilingual program (English-Spanish) at the Padron Campus. All campuses have different schools for various disciplines (engineering, business, etc.). Some campuses also operate dual-enrollment programs for high school students. Most campuses also have College Preparatory or English as a Second Language (ESL) courses that help students pass the Computerized Placement Test (CPT) that is required for admittance and proves prospective students are qualified to take college-level mathematics and English courses\n\nNorth Campus has specialized programs that train future firefighters, police officers, and Emergency medical service personnels. It also has a School of Entertainment and Design Technology. This campus partners with Florida Agricultural and Mechanical University (FAMU) for engineering programs. The North Campus operates the Carrie Meek Entrepreneurial Education Center in Liberty City. The campus also offers a Bachelor in Applied Science degree in Public Safety that is housed within the School of Justice.\n\nKendall Campus houses the college's athletic teams. The 185-acre campus opened in 1967. It is home to the Honors College and the Miami Dade College Foundation. Apart from the Latin Jazz experience being held at the Kendall Campus they also allow student to receive community service hours that can be apply to their degree through the CSI and Procedural Justice Camps for the youth, including those with disabilities.\n\nThe Wolfson Campus was opened in 1970 and is the only comprehensive urban campus in the city. Located within the city's financial, governmental, technological and cultural hubs, Wolfson educates over 27,000 students each year. MDC's Wolfson Campus program is designed Accelerate, Retain, Complete with Opportunities and Support and is aimed at creating a support network for 600 STEM students. Each year, this campus hosts the Miami Book Fair International, the nation's largest literary festival.The Miami Culinary Institute of Miami Dade College is located in this campus where it offers a Chefs Apprentice Program, Culinary Arts Management and an Associate in science. It is a multi-million dollar architectural project.\n\nThe goal is to keep Hispanic and other low-income high-need students engaged in the program. The campus has two art galleries, a library, and two computer courtyards. The Wolfson Campus also has business and paralegal studies programs.\nMiami Dade College opened its medical campus in 1977. It is located in Miami's Medical District near downtown Miami, trains students in the Nursing (BSN/RN) and Allied Health fields, completing the Associate in Applied Science and school degree that will allow them immediate entry into health professions. The Medical Campus also offers bachelor's degrees. The campus shares its complex with The University of Miami's School of Medicine, Jackson Memorial Hospital, Veterans Administration Hospital and Miami Dade College Public Health Service\n\nThe Homestead Campus contains the college's aviation program, one of thirteen schools in the nation accredited ATC-CTI (Air Traffic Control Collegiate Training Initiative) status by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA). It also possesses, in addition to the Medical Campus, the renowned Benjamin Leon School of Nursing that has trained over fifty percent of nurses in Miami-Dade County.\n\nEduardo J. Padrón Campus is the sixth campus created by Miami Dade College. It was previously known as the InterAmerican campus, but was later changed to Eduardo J Padrón in honor of MDC's president being with the college for 50 years. This campus was first created in 1972, but didn't get the status of a \"campus\" til March 27, 2001. This campus contains the School of Education which offers Bachelor of Science (BS) degrees.\n\nThe New World School of the Arts is both a high school and a college that focuses on visual arts, theatre, dance, and music. Admission requirements include an audition or review of the applicant's art portfolio. Aside from New World School of the Arts and the MEEC, there are nineteen other MDC outreach centers.\n\nThe Hialeah Campus is a former extension of the North Campus, houses a large and comprehensive English language training program for \nspeakers of other languages in various instructional formats. Construction of a 1,000 car parking garage and a new building housing classrooms, science labs, and student services was completed in 2014.The out doors of the campus has palm trees with a sufficient amount of chairs for students waiting on their next class or for eating some food. The inside of the campus may seem small but has four floors on one side of the building and three floors on the other side of the building. The Hialeah Campus offers associate programs and the Bachelor of Applied Science in Supervision and Management.\n\nWest Campus opened in March 2006 for students residing in or near Doral. The campus had begun construction on a new 5 story garage in January 2012; in October of the same year, the garage collapsed, this collapse resulted in the death of 4 construction workers. In 2015 the contractors and subcontractors involved in the project reached an agreement with Miami Dade College in the amount of 33.5 million dollars. This Fall, West Campus collaborated with Tesla Start, a program made for students looking to start a career in Tesla as a field technician. If passed, students will have a guaranteed position as a Field Technician as long as they accept within 30-days of completion.\n\nThe Carrie P. Meek Entrepreneurial Educational Center is an outreach center founded in 1989. It is named after the first African-American women in the Florida senate, the Carrie P. Meek. The Carrie Meek Foundation Scholarship Program supports the MDC Entrepreneurial Educational Center campus based in liberty city, Miami. This is an institution based on offering young people the best possible education, mainly to impoverished neighborhoods. This campus offers college credit courses but focuses on non-credit courses and vocational programs, seminars, and workshops to train people for employment.\n\nOut of approximately 165,000 students, on average, almost 6,000 go on to earn a bachelor's degree, associate degrees, vocational, technical, or college credit certificates. Associate in Arts transfer students from Miami Dade College go on to transfer primarily to schools within the State University System of Florida. Although, some do transfer to out-of-state institutions, mainly through articulation agreements made between institutions. As a student in Miami Dade College, you are able to pursue an Associate or bachelor's degrees in over 70 majors with the option of also taking part in non-credit credit courses. Students also have the opportunity to enroll in the honors program.\n\nAlthough students are offered a wide variety of majors, there are currently a list of top three majors in Miami Dade College which include Liberal Arts, Humanities, Nursing, and Business. Allied Health Professions and Computer Information Systems follow these majors, naming them in the top five majors chosen by students.\n\nIn 2010, Miami Dade College's Schools of Engineering and Technology that develops students to researchers, used a million-plus U.S dollars grant from the National Science Foundation to start a computer laboratory used by students so they can apply their skills in resolving real-life-problems.\n\nIn fall of 2019, the college implemented the Tesla START program for the purpose of teaching students how to become electric vehicle technicians.\n\nIn the Fall semester of 2019, Miami Dade College implemented a learning degree for students to gain a College Credit or Associate in Science in Cybersecurity. \n\nThe Inside Out Prison Exchange Program that MDC offers, intends to bring college students together and inmates for a semester-long learning at Everglades Correctional Institution.\nIn the graduation year of 2016 in Miami Dade College, 13,351 degrees were awarded between undergraduate and graduate programs with majority of the recipients being Hispanic. The degrees were awarded to 59.9% of women while they were awarded to a percentage of 40.1% of men.\n\nTuition and Fees by College Credit Program. $118.22 per credit hour for Resident Students, and $402.51 per credit hour for Non-Resident Students. Total Tuition per term (12 credits): $1,558.68 for Resident Students and $6,431.64 for Non-Resident Students. For completed an AA degree is with a total 60 credit that is an estimated around $7,093.02 for Resident Student and $24,156.06 for Non-Resident Student.\n\n\nMDC offers many scholarships and financial aid. Under the financial aid we have Pell Grants, Student Loans. The average reported annual net price for Miami Dade College for students receiving grants or scholarship aid was $7,062 in 2017/2018. \n\nMiami Dade College competes in five sports, men's basketball, men's baseball, women's basketball, women's softball, and women's volleyball. In total, they have 85 student athletes made up of 38 men and 47 women.\n\nMiami Dade's Baseball team program started in 1962. Although at the time, Kendall campus, North campus, and Wolfson campus had their own individual fielded teams. However, once the school changed to a four-year college from a community college, they united to make a baseball team.\n\nMiami Dade college's athletic teams have won 35 NJCAA national titles, 15 in women's sports.\n\nThe school's athletic teams competed in the Southern Conference of the Florida State College Activities Association, a body of the National Junior College Athletic Association Region 8. Due to their players and good ranking, Miami Dade College was a \"can't miss stop\" for MLB scouts.\n\nMiami Dade College has been collecting art at its individual campuses since the 1960s. Over the years, the collection has grown to more than 1,600 works in all mediums and genres, including painting, sculpture, works on paper, photography, video, film, installation and public sculpture. MDC Hialeah Campus opened an Art Gallery in late 2018 in Hialeah, Florida. MDC Hialeah Campus Arts & Cultural Programs are partially supported by The John S. and James L. Knight Foundation.\n\nThe college has an \"Emerging Artist Annual Exhibition\" which allows student to display their art in the \"Art + Design\" museum. Miami Dade College also has an \"MDC live Art\" event which allows student to perform on stage and inspire others through their performance of art; both are open to the community. As a matter of fact, MDC North campus is home home to a prestigious collection of sculptures produced by renowned artists such as Alfredo Halegna, Rafael Consuegra, William King and Mario Felipe Almaguer.\n\nAnnually since 1964, Miami Dade College has awarded the Francis Wolfson Art Scholarship. More than 200 students from Miami Dade College and its outreach center, the New School of the Arts, have received this scholarship. The winners in 2018 each received $1,500.\n"}
{"id": "1860071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860071", "title": "Desmond Morton (civil servant)", "text": "Desmond Morton (civil servant)\n\nMajor Sir Desmond Morton (13 November 1891 – 31 July 1971) was a British military officer and government official. Morton played an important role in organizing a response to appeasement of Germany under Adolf Hitler during the period prior to World War II by providing intelligence information about German re-armament to Winston Churchill. At this time Churchill did not have any position in the government. In 1940 Morton was Churchill's personal assistant when he became prime minister.\n\nMorton joined the Royal Artillery in 1911. He saw action in World War I, and was shot in the heart at the Battle of Arras in 1917. However, he survived and recovered, serving again with the bullet still inside. He served as aide de camp to Sir Douglas Haig, commander of the British Expeditionary Force from 1917 to 1918. He looked after the Minister of Munitions on several trips to the front during the war.\n\nHe was seconded to the Foreign Office in 1919 where he was head of the Secret Intelligence Service's Section V, dealing with counter-Bolshevism in the mid-1920s. In 1924 he was transferred by Churchill to the War Office and, was Head of the Industrial Intelligence Centre of the Committee of Imperial Defence from 1929 to 1939, responsible for providing intelligence on the plans and capabilities for manufacturing munitions in other countries. From 1930 to 1939 he was also a member of the CID sub-committee on Economic Warfare. From 1929, as he \"found himself idle much of the time\" he assisted Churchill who was writing his history of the Great War, \"The World Crisis\". During 1930s he leaked documents and material information to bolster Churchill's fight against the rise of Fascism in Europe. Morton claimed that he had tacit approval by successive Prime Ministers, MacDonald, Baldwin and Chamberlain for this secret activity, but the evidence for this is unfounded because witness statements have not come forward. Morton lived only one mile away from Chartwell where he would walk across the fields to divulge his information to Churchill.\n\nIn 1939, he became the Principal Assistant Secretary at the Ministry of Economic Warfare, and became Churchill's Personal Assistant at no.10 Downing Street in 1940. Morton used to handle Ultra codes from Bletchley Park, as important messages were siphoned directly to the Prime Minister's Office. Later in the war these informal arrangements fell away to be replaced by a more structured bureaucracy, and with it Morton's influence declined. He served on the UN's Economic Survey Mission for the Middle East in 1949, and served in the Ministry of Civil Aviation from 1950 to 1953.\n\nHe was awarded the Military Cross in 1917, and a knighthood in 1945. Morton was portrayed by Moray Watson in the 1981 mini-series \"\" and by Jim Broadbent in the 2002 film \"The Gathering Storm\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860072", "title": "Métis-sur-Mer, Quebec", "text": "Métis-sur-Mer, Quebec\n\nMétis-sur-Mer is a city in the La Mitis Regional County Municipality within the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of Quebec, Canada. It had a population of 607 in the Canada 2011 Census.\n\nThe name \"Métis\" is said to come from a Mi'kmaq word meaning \"meeting place\"; \"sur-mer\" refers to its location on the Saint Lawrence River.\n\nFrom 1818, John MacNider, the Scottish Seigneur of Métis started settling the area with Scottish immigrants.\n\nThe city has a borough named MacNider, named after John MacNider family, whose territory corresponds to the former (pre-merger) village municipality of Métis-sur-Mer.(Metis Beach)\n\nOn July 4, 2002, the village of Métis-sur-Mer and the municipality of Les Boules merged to form the city of Métis-sur-Mer.\n\nIn the 2011 Census, Statistics Canada originally reported that Métis-sur-Mer had a population of 644 living in 298 of its 427 total dwellings, a 6.6% change from its 2006 population of 604. Statistics Canada subsequently amended the 2011 census results to a population of 607 living in 288 of its 417 total dwellings, a 0.5% change from 2006. With a land area of , it had a population density of in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860076", "title": "University of Delaware Botanic Gardens", "text": "University of Delaware Botanic Gardens\n\nThe University of Delaware Botanic Gardens are botanical gardens and an arboretum located on the campus of the University of Delaware, in Newark, Delaware, United States. The gardens are open to the public without charge.\n\nThe original garden in front of Townsend Hall was established with a donation from Emily Clark Diffenback in the mid-1960s, and has been named Clark Garden in her honor. It has since been designated a test arboretum by the American Holly Society. Other gardens include a Magnolia Society test garden south of Townsend Hall; native and non-native plants north of Worrilow Hall; a wildflower area in front of the Fischer Greenhouse Laboratory; a herbaceous perennial garden behind another greenhouse; and stretches of native trees and shrubs lining the driveway and grounds.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860085", "title": "Graveworm", "text": "Graveworm\n\nGraveworm is an Italian gothic-symphonic black metal band from Brunico formed in 1992.\n\nBefore Graveworm even released a demo, they were signed by Serenades Records after a performance close to their hometown of Brunico, northern Italy.\nGraveworm was signed to Serenades Records in 1997, releasing their first EP, \"Eternal Winds\", in that same year. During their first tour together with Crematory, Therion and Lake of Tears, the band promoted the album \"When Daylight's Gone\".\n\nIn 1998, the EP \"Underneath the Crescent Moon\" was released, featuring Sarah Jezebel Deva (Cradle of Filth, Therion) in the track \"Awake...Thy Angels Of Sorrow\". Graveworm also performed at the Wacken Open Air festival in Germany with bands such as Children of Bodom, Cradle of Filth and Vader.\n\nThe second album \"As the Angels Reach the Beauty\" was finished in 1999, and followed by a European tour with Agathodaimon. \"Scourge of Malice\" was released in 2001, which allowed the band their first headlining tour together with Dornenreich, Vintersorg and Darkwell. In 2002, they changed to the German Nuclear Blast label. At this point, Didi Schraffel (bass) left the band and Harry Klenk (guitars) was replaced by Eric Treffel. Treffel soon left the band in the same year and was replaced by Eric Righi on guitar.\n\nTogether with Righi, they produced \"Engraved in Black\", which was finished in 2003, and enhanced with a feature of R.E.M.'s \"Losing My Religion\". Shortly after the release, Stefan Unterpertinger (guitar) quit and Lukas Flarer joined the band. Also, Harry Klenk, former guitarist and now bassist, re-joined the band.\n\nIn 2004, Graveworm played on the X-Mass Festival tour together with Destruction, Kataklysm, and many others. Martin Innerbichler (drums) took a break to study and was temporarily replaced by Moritz Neuner (previously the Darkwell and Shadowcast drummer).\n\nThe album \"(N)utopia\" was released in 2005.\n\nLukas Flarer (guitarist) later left the band for personal reasons, and was replaced by Orgler \"Stirz\" Thomas.\n\nIn 2006, Graveworm embarked on a North American tour with Kataklysm, Destruction, The Absence, and Vader.\n\nOn April 10, 2007, the promo of the latest Graveworm album, Collateral Defect, was leaked on the web. The album was launched in Europe on May 25 via Massacre Records and June 5 in North America through Nuclear Blast. It was produced by Andy Classen at Stage One studios in Borgentreich, Germany.\n\nGraveworm's album \"Diabolical Figures\" was released on June 19, 2009 and features Karsten Jäger as a guest musician.\n\nIn 2011 Graveworm released album \"Fragments of Death\".\n\nIn 2012 Thomas Orgler (guitar) and Sabine Mair (keyboard) quit and Stefan Unterpertinger (guitar) reunited with Graveworm.\n\nOn June 19, 2015, Graveworm released their 9th official studio album \"Ascending Hate\".\n\nThe band Graveworm is mentioned in Tony Vilgotsky's horror novel \"Shepherd of the Dead\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860091", "title": "Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi", "text": "Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi\n\nThe Museu Paraense Emílio Goeldi is a Brazilian research institution and museum located in the city of Belém, state of Pará. It was founded in 1866 by Domingos Soares Ferreira Penna as the Pará Museum of Natural History and Ethnography, and was later named in honor of Swiss naturalist Émil August Goeldi, who reorganized the institution and was its director from 1894 to 1905. It is open to the public from 9:00 to 17:00 h, daily except Mondays.\n\nThe institution has the mission of researching, cataloging and analyzing the biological and sociocultural diversity of the Amazon Basin, contributing to its cultural memory and its regional development. It has also the aim of increasing public awareness of science in the Amazon by means of its museums, botanical garden, zoological park, etc.\n\nThe Museum maintains a scientific research station in the high Amazon forest (Estação Científica Ferreira Penna), which was inaugurated in 1993, with in the Caxiuanã National Forest, municipality of Melgaço, Pará.\n\nThe museum provided assistance in preparing the management plan for the Grão-Pará Ecological Station between 2007 and 2011. \nThis is a strictly protected environmental unit covering of Amazon forest created in 2006, the largest such reserve in the world.\n\nThe Museum staff in botany works in taxonomy and systematics of the Amazon flora, ethnobotany and economic botany, plant biodiversity, structure and dynamics of rain forests. A botanical garden and several botanical collections are maintained, since the first one, established in 1895 by Jacques Huber, and it has more than 200,000 specimens of seeds, fruits, woods, pollen, histological sections and exsicata (dried and pressed specimens).\n\nIn zoology, the Museum does research on the Amazon fauna, its geographical distribution, behavior, ecology, taxonomy and systematics in mammalogy, ornithology, herpetology, ichthyology and entomology. The zoological collections include around 150,000 specimens of vertebrate whole bodies preserved in alcohol and taxidermy, skeletons, skins, eggs, anatomical parts, etc.; as well as more than 1 million specimens of invertebrates, including Arthropoda, Insecta and Mollusca.\n\nIn this area, there are research groups on the evolution of Amazon ecosystems, paleontology and paleoecology of tropical regions, sedimentology, mineralogy and stratigraphy, geology, geochemistry, paleogeology and pedology (the study of soils). The paleontological collections harbored by the Museum have more than 6,000 species, and the mineralogical collections more than 1,000 samples.\n\nThe existence of a rich pre-history and contemporaneous history of human populations in the Amazon have motivated, since the beginning of the Museum, a host of studies in archeology, anthropology, linguistics and ethnography. The institution is probably the largest repository of such Amazonic collections in the world, with more than 120,000 pieces in the archeological collection, including lithic and ceramic artifacts, and more than 14,000 pieces in the ethnographic collection, including indigenous cultures from Brazil, Africa, Peru and Suriname. The linguistics sector studies many aboriginal languages.\n\nJoão Baptista Gonçalves da Rocha (1872–1873); Joaquim Pedro Corrêa de Freitas, Diretor de Instrução Pública (1873–1881); José Coelho da Gama e Abreu, Barão de Marajó (1881–1882); Antonio Manuel Gonçalves Tocantins (1882); Domingos Soares Ferreira Penna (1882–1884); Joaquim Pedro Corrêa de Freitas (1883–1884); Hildebrando Barjona de Miranda; Abel Augusto César de Araújo (1885); Álvaro Pinto de Pontes e Souza (1886–1888); Emílio Augusto Goeldi (1894–1907); Jacques Hüber (1907–1914); Marie Emilie Snethlage (1914–1921); Rodolfo Siqueira Rodrigues (substitute); Carlos Estevão de Oliveira (1930–1936); José Cândido de Melo Carvalho (1955–1960). José Seixas Lourenço(); \nGuilherme Mauricio Souza Marcos de La Penha(1985–1991).\n\n"}
{"id": "1860093", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860093", "title": "Aztar", "text": "Aztar\n\nAztar Corporation was a hospitality company based in Phoenix, Arizona, focused on resort hotels and casinos. In 2005, the company had revenues of more than $915 million and earnings before interest and taxes of $212 million. During 2006 the company became the subject of a bidding war for ownership, with Columbia Sussex winning.\n\nAztar was formed in 1989 as part of a restructuring of Ramada Inn, Inc.. Ramada's gaming businesses, including the Tropicana Atlantic City and the Tropicana Las Vegas, were spun off as Aztar Corporation, which was given to Ramada's shareholders, while Ramada's restaurant and non-gaming hotel businesses remained with the original company, which was immediately acquired by Hong Kong-based New World Development. Aztar took its name as a portmanteau of \"Aztec\" and \"star\".\n\nIn 1995, the new Aztar Corporation expanded its operations to include riverboat casinos in Caruthersville, Missouri and Evansville, Indiana. On March 5, 2002 Aztar acquired full ownership of the Tropicana location in Las Vegas by purchasing the 50% share held by Chicago's Jaffe family. During 2005, the company acquired a site in Allentown, Pennsylvania with the intention of securing a gaming license and then developing a casino.\n\nOn March 13, 2006, Aztar announced plans to be acquired by Pinnacle Entertainment for $2.1 billion. Subsequent bids were made by Colony Capital, LLC, Columbia Sussex and Ameristar Casinos. As of April 26, 2006, all four companies were engaged in bidding over Aztar, with Pinnacle increased its bid to $45 per share, matching Ameristar's bid; Columbia Sussex had previously bid $47 per share. Later, Columbia Sussex increased its bid to $50 a share, all in cash. Aztar management determined on May 1 that the latest bid was preferred over Pinnacle's late increase to $48 a share, in cash and stock.\n\nOn May 4, 2006, Ameristar announced that it was pulling out of the bidding for Aztar. Additionally, Colony apparently lost interest, having failed to increase its bid beyond $41 a share and making no public comment for several weeks. Since Columbia Sussex eventually outbid Pinnacle, the latter company was paid a $50 million termination fee plus expenses, which may total $16 million.\n\nBidding ended on May 19, 2006 with the acceptance of a $2.75 billion bid from Columbia Sussex. Columbia Sussex paid a $313 million breakup fee in advance, in case the deal fell through with $78 million of that used to pay the breakup fee to Pinnacle Entertainment. The sale closed in January 2007.\n\nThe New Jersey Casino Control Commission ultimately rejected Columbia Sussex's application for a gaming license for the Tropicana Atlantic City, sending the company's gaming businesses into bankruptcy. Most of the Aztar properties became part of the reorganized Tropicana Entertainment Inc. in March 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860095", "title": "Turning", "text": "Turning\n\nTurning is a machining process in which a cutting tool, typically a non-rotary tool bit, describes a helix toolpath by moving more or less linearly while the workpiece rotates.\n\nUsually the term \"turning\" is reserved for the generation of \"external\" surfaces by this cutting action, whereas this same essential cutting action when applied to \"internal\" surfaces (holes, of one kind or another) is called \"boring\". Thus the phrase \"turning and boring\" categorizes the larger family of processes known as lathing. The cutting of faces on the workpiece, whether with a turning or boring tool, is called \"facing\", and may be lumped into either category as a subset.\n\nTurning can be done manually, in a traditional form of lathe, which frequently requires continuous supervision by the operator, or by using an automated lathe which does not. Today the most common type of such automation is computer numerical control, better known as CNC. (CNC is also commonly used with many other types of machining besides turning.)\n\nWhen turning, the workpiece (a piece of relatively rigid material such as wood, metal, plastic, or stone) is rotated and a cutting tool is traversed along 1, 2, or 3 axes of motion to produce precise diameters and depths. Turning can be either on the outside of the cylinder or on the inside (also known as boring) to produce tubular components to various geometries. Although now quite rare, early lathes could even be used to produce complex geometric figures, even the platonic solids; although since the advent of CNC it has become unusual to use non-computerized toolpath control for this purpose.\n\nThe turning processes are typically carried out on a lathe, considered to be the oldest of machine tools, and can be of different types such as \"straight turning\", \"taper turning\", \"profiling\" or \"external grooving\". Those types of turning processes can produce various shapes of materials such as \"straight\", \"conical\", \"curved\", or \"grooved\" workpieces.\nIn general, turning uses simple \"single-point cutting\" tools. Each group of workpiece materials has an optimum set of tool angles that have been developed through the years.\n\nThe bits of waste metal from turning operations are known as chips (North America), or swarf (Britain). In some areas they may be known as \"turnings\".\n\nThe tool's axes of movement may be literally a straight line, or they may be along some set of curves or angles, but they are essentially linear (in the non mathematical sense).\n\nA component that is subject to turning operations can be termed as a “Turned Part” or “Machined Component”. Turning operations are carried out on a lathe machine which can be manually or CNC operated.\n\nTurning specific operations include:\n\n\nThe general process of turning involves rotating a part while a single-point cutting tool is moved parallel to the axis of rotation. Turning can be done on the external surface of the part as well as the internal surface (the process known as boring). The starting material is generally a workpiece generated by other processes such as casting, forging, extrusion, or drawing.\n\nFacing in the context of turning work involves moving the cutting tool at right angles to the axis of rotation of the rotating workpiece. This can be performed by the operation of the cross-slide, if one is fitted, as distinct from the longitudinal feed (turning). It is frequently the first operation performed in the production of the workpiece, and often the last—hence the phrase \"ending up\".\n\nThis process, also called parting off or cutoff, is used to create deep grooves which will remove a completed or part-complete component from its parent stock.\n\nGrooving is like parting, except that grooves are cut to a specific depth instead of severing a completed/part-complete component from the stock. Grooving can be performed on internal and external surfaces, as well as on the face of the part (face grooving or trepanning).\n\nNon-specific operations include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA lathe is a machine tool used principally for shaping pieces of metal, wood, or other materials by causing the workpiece to be held and rotated by the lathe while a tool bit is advanced into the work causing the cutting action. Lathes can be divided into three types for easy identification: engine lathe, turret lathe, and \"special purpose lathes\". Some smaller ones are bench mounted and semi-portable. The larger lathes are floor mounted and may require special transportation if they must be moved.\nField and maintenance shops generally use a lathe that can be adapted to many operations and that is not too large to be moved from one work site to another. The engine lathe is ideally suited for this purpose. A trained operator can accomplish more machining jobs with the engine lathe than with any other machine tool. Turret lathes and special purpose lathes are usually used in production or job shops for mass production or specialized parts, while basic engine lathes are usually used for any type of lathe work.\n\n\nThe various angles, shapes, and sizes of a \"single-point cutting\" tool have direct relation to the resulting surface of a workpiece in machining operations. Different types of angle such as \"rake angle\", \"side rake angle\", \"cutting-edge angle\", \"relief angle\", \"nose radius\" exist and may be different with respect to the workpiece. Also, there are many shapes of \"single-point cutting\" tools, such as \"V-shaped\" and \"Square.\" Usually, a special toolholder is used to hold the cutting tool firmly during operation.\n\nThe relative forces in a turning operation are important in the design of machine tools. The machine tool and its components must be able to withstand these forces without causing significant deflections, vibrations, or chatter during the operation. There are three principal forces during a turning process:\n\n\nSpeeds and feeds for turning are chosen based on cutter material, workpiece material, setup rigidity, machine tool rigidity and spindle power, coolant choice, and other factors.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860099", "title": "George Mead", "text": "George Mead\n\nGeorge Mead or George Meade may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860100", "title": "Pamela Fitzgerald (camogie)", "text": "Pamela Fitzgerald (camogie)\n\nPamela Fitzgerald (born 1984 in Cork, Ireland) is a camogie player from Newcastle West, Co. Limerick, Ireland. She has played for her county at a number of levels, including senior camogie on three occasions. She also represents her hometown over the summer months, and captains the Trinity College camogie team during term time.\n\nShe is the Honorary Secretary of the Dublin University Central Athletic Club (DUCAC) Executive Committee, which oversees the 50 sporting clubs in Trinity.\n\nIn a March 2006 article by \"Trinity News\", Fitzgerald was declared to be the 9th most powerful student in Trinity, the highest female on the list.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860101", "title": "Julia Goldsworthy", "text": "Julia Goldsworthy\n\nJulia Anne Goldsworthy (born 10 September 1978) is a British Liberal Democrat politician and former Member of Parliament (MP). She represented Falmouth and Camborne from 2005 until 2010. She was narrowly defeated by 66 votes by the Conservatives in the new Camborne and Redruth constituency following boundary changes. In the House of Commons, she served as the Liberal Democrat spokesperson for Communities and Local Government. After her defeat, she worked as a special adviser.\n\nGoldsworthy was born in Camborne, Cornwall, where her mother was a local teacher. She was educated locally at the St Meriadoc Primary School in Camborne before winning a scholarship to the independent Truro School. She took a gap year between school and beginning university in 1997, and in 2000 she graduated from Cambridge, with a BA (Hons) degree in History, having read for her degree at Fitzwilliam College. She then spent a year at Daiichi University of Economics in the Fukuoka Prefecture, Japan, and the following year completed a Postgraduate Certificate in Economics at Birkbeck College, London, in 2002.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2004, Goldsworthy worked in Westminster as an economics researcher for Matthew Taylor, the Liberal Democrat MP for Truro and St Austell, the seat adjacent to the one she would later represent. In 2004, she was appointed as a regeneration officer with the Carrick District Council where she worked until her election to Westminster less than a year later.\n\nAt the 2002 Lambeth Council Elections, Julia contested the Herne Hill ward. She polled 486 votes, finishing behind the Labour Party and Green Party.\n\nGoldsworthy was elected to the House of Commons at the 2005 General Election for Falmouth and Camborne when she defeated the sitting Labour MP Candy Atherton. She gained the seat with a majority of 1,886 and made her maiden speech on 19 May 2005. She names former Cornish Liberal MP David Penhaligon (1944–1986) as her greatest hero. Her election in 2005 meant that the Liberal Democrats held all the Westminster Parliament seats in Cornwall, for the first time since 1923.\n\nIn 2005, she was appointed as a spokesperson on health by Charles Kennedy, and promoted in 2006 by new leader Sir Menzies Campbell as Vince Cable's deputy in the Treasury team. She was also member of the Public Administration Select Committee from 2005 until mid-2006. Julia Goldsworthy was promoted again in December 2007 to become the Liberal Democrat shadow secretary on Communities and Local Government. As an MP, she worked on issues such as the 'Axe the Tax' campaign against council tax, pensions, student tuition fees, health funding formulas and the abolition of central housing targets on local communities.\n\nDuring her parliamentary career, Goldsworthy also used the social networking website Facebook as a way of gauging the opinions and views of her constituents, and this has led her to campaign for various issues. On 14 May 2008 in the House of Commons debates, she presented a petition on behalf of many thousands of people living in Cornwall who would like to see Cornwall be recognised as a network region on the website. Goldsworthy is a supporter of the Facebook Cornish Tickbox for the 2011 Census campaign.\n\nGoldsworthy co-sponsored the Sustainable Communities Act 2007 (Amendment) Act 2010.\n\n\"The Daily Telegraph\" showed that in 2006 Goldsworthy bought a \"£999 television, £1,500 of furniture in House of Fraser, a £1,111 sofa bed and a £1,200 rocking chair from Heal’s, an upmarket furniture store\", as part of moving into an unfurnished flat, but she did not claim the full amount for these items. Between 2005 and 2008, she also regularly claimed £400 per month for food, as many other MPs did at the time, without providing receipts to prove the expenditure. She has responded with a full account of her transactions and a statement that she opposed steps to block the publication of MPs' expenses claims. In February 2010, it was again reported that she repaid £1,005 for the \"designer pink rocking chair\" (this was repaid in June 2009) and £171.32 over-claimed in mortgage interest in 2005–06.\n\nAt the 2010 general election, Goldsworthy stood at the new seat of Camborne and Redruth which she narrowly lost by just 66 votes (0.16%) to the Conservative candidate George Eustice. Following her defeat at the 2010 general election, she was named special adviser to Chief Secretary to the Treasury Danny Alexander.\n\nFive years later she contested the seat again. However, on this occasion, Goldsworthy finished in fourth place with 5,687 votes. Eustice retained the seat with 18,452 votes to 11,448 to Labour, with UKIP finishing in third place.\n\nIn 2006, Julia Goldsworthy competed on the Channel 4 show \"The Games\" where she was runner-up. She raised £20,000 for the Cornish Air Ambulance. She competed in swimming, hurdles, hammer, curling, track cycling, sprint and kayak slalom. In parliament, she was the chairwoman of the all-party rowing group; she rows in a Cornish pilot gig.\n\nShe married Christopher Church on 19 May 2012 in Camborne Parish Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860102", "title": "Dorotheus of Tyre", "text": "Dorotheus of Tyre\n\nSaint Dorotheus bishop of Tyre (present-day Lebanon) (ca. 255 – 362) is traditionally credited with an \"Acts\" of the Seventy Apostles (which may be the same work as the lost \"Gospel of the Seventy\"), who were sent out according to the \"Gospel of Luke\" 10:1.\n\nDorotheus was a learned priest of Antioch (Eusebius, VII.32) and a eunuch. Dorotheus is said to have been driven into exile during the persecution of Diocletian, but later returned. He attended the Council of Nicaea in 325, but was exiled to Odyssopolis (Varna) on the Black Sea in Thrace by Julian the Apostate. There the 107-year-old priest was martyred for his faith. His feast day is observed June 5 according to the Gregorian calendar which coincides with June 18 on the Julian calendar.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860104", "title": "Varėna District Municipality", "text": "Varėna District Municipality\n\nVarėna District Municipality () is a municipality in Alytus County in southern Lithuania.\n\nAlong with Vilnius region, a large part of Varėna District Municipality was on the Polish side of not-mutually recognized border during the interwar period. This was mainly due the strategic Warsaw – Saint Petersburg Railway. Unlike in neighboring regions, where the number of Poles is high, the territories now comprising the municipality always had a Lithuanian majority. The Varėna District, as it was then called, was formed during the Soviet Union, with the small town of Varėna chosen as the capital. Varėna was chosen over the then much larger Senoji Varėna (literally \"Old Varėna\") as the capital, due to its proximity to a railroad. It only became the center of region in the 1970s when it underwent industrialization under Soviet leadership. During a municipality reform the territory was renamed to Varėna District Municipality and the westernmost parts of it ceded to Druskininkai Municipality.\n\nMost of the municipality is covered by forests and swamps, it is the largest and least densely populated municipality of Lithuania. The river Merkys passes through its territory, there are over 100 lakes, and the Dainava Forest. It borders Druskininkai Municipality to the west, Alytus District Municipality to the northwest, Trakai District Municipality to the northeast, and Šalčininkai District Municipality also to the west. To the south it shares a border with Belarus.\n\nTourism is on rise, as Dzūkija National Park is located in the region.\n\nUrbanization:\n\nSexual makeup:\n\nReligious makeup:\n\nEthnic makeup (2011 census):\n\nVarėna district municipality council currently has 25 seats. The last elections took place in December 2002, and the term limit is 4 years.<br>The results of the 2002 elections:\n\nThe road network is sparse, but a railway connects the district with Vilnius. There are stations in Valkininkai, Matuizos, Varėna, Marcinkonys, and stops in Kalviai, Pamerkiai, Zervynos, Darželiai, Morgionys, Kabeliai, Senovė (the last three recently closed after the train route to Hrodna was discontinued).\n\nThe Varėna municipality contains 8 \"seniūnijos\" (in English: elderships or wards); the main town or village is listed for each.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860117", "title": "Tolbutamide", "text": "Tolbutamide\n\nTolbutamide is a first-generation potassium channel blocker, sulfonylurea oral hypoglycemic medication. This drug may be used in the management of type 2 diabetes if diet alone is not effective. Tolbutamide stimulates the secretion of insulin by the pancreas.\n\nIt is not routinely used due to a higher incidence of adverse effects compared to newer, second-generation sulfonylureas, such as Glibenclamide. It generally has a short duration of action due to its rapid metabolism, so is safe for use in older people.\n\nIt was discovered in 1956.\n\n\nSalicylates displace tolbutamide from its binding site on plasma binding proteins which lead to increase in free tolbutamide concentration, thus hypoglycemic shock.\n\nOrinase was developed by Upjohn Co. at a time when the primary medical treatment for diabetes was insulin injections. Eli Lilly had a lock on the market for insulin production at the time. Orinase, like other treatments for drugs detected by so-called paraclinical signs rather than clinically observable signs or patient-reported symptoms, benefitted from an increased sensitivity and availability of blood glucose testing. Milton Moskowitz (editor in 1961 of \"Drug and Cosmetic Industry\") claimed the introduction of Orinase, \"expanded the total market by bringing under medical care diabetics who were formerly not treated.\" It did this by changing the mindset about diabetes even more than insulin had. Treatment of this chronic disease was no longer seen as a mere slowing of \"inexorable degeneration\", but instead viewed through \"a model of surveillance and early detection.\"\n\nOrinase and other sulfonylureas emerged from European pharmaceutical research into antibiotics, specifically from attempts to develop sulfa compounds. One of the contenders for a new sulfa antibiotic had serious side effects during clinical trials at the University of Montpellier including blackouts, convulsions, and coma, side effects not observed with any other drugs in the sulfa cohort. An insulin researcher at the same university heard of these side effects and recognized them as common results of hypoglycemia. The resulting class of drugs for lowering blood sugar came to be known as the sulfonylureas, starting with Orinase and still in use today in other forms.\n\nUnfortunately for diabetics dependent on insulin as a treatment for their condition, this research at Montpellier occurred in the early 1940s and was significantly disrupted by the German occupation of France during World War II. Development of these compounds was taken over by German pharmaceutical companies, which were obviously disinclined to share their bounty with nations upon which they were waging war. The German research was, in turn, disrupted by Germany's defeat in 1945 and the partition of Germany into East and West Germany. The sulfonylureas were trapped in East Germany. In 1952, someone smuggled a sample to a West German pharmaceutical company and research resumed. Clinical trials in diabetics began in 1954 in Berlin. In 1956, two different sulfonylureas were brought to market in Germany under the trade names Nadisan and Rastinon. American pharmaceutical companies in the postwar period had been seeking to establish business relations with the remnants of German pharmaceutical giants weakened by the war and partition of Germany. Upjohn (based in Kalamazoo until its purchase by Pharmacia in the 1990s) made deals with Hoechst, maker of Rastinon. The result was a cross-licensing agreement which produced Orinase.\n\nUpjohn stood to open up a whole new arena of treatment for diabetes, one with a built-in and sustainable market, i.e. patient population. Just as two German companies brought sulfonylureas to market within the same year, Upjohn discovered Eli Lilly had begun clinical trials for carbutamide, another oral hypoglycemic. Upjohn pushed for large-scale clinical trials from 1955–1957, enrolling over 5,000 patients at multiple sites.\n\nUpjohn's formulation was preferred when the Lilly formulation demonstrated evidence of toxicity in parallel trials at the Joslin Clinic. Lilly pulled carbutamide and halted development, leaving the field open for Upjohn to market its new treatment. In 1956, Upjohn filed for approval from the Food and Drug Administration. Jeremy A. Greene found the application's size – 10,580 pages in 23 volumes with 5,786 cases reports – was necessary to \"render visible the relatively small improvements provided in less severe forms of diabetes.\" Indeed, Orinase was marketed by Upjohn not as a cure-all for all diabetics, but specifically as a treatment that was \"not an oral insulin\" and \"did not work in all diabetics\". Those were the instructions for marketing given to Upjohn's salespeople. As indicated by the FDA application, Orinase had been demonstrated \"not to be effective in severe diabetes, but only in milder cases of the disease.\" Orinase was one of a new class of drugs (including treatments for hypertension and hypercholesterolemia) aimed at providing marginal benefits over existing treatments for patients who had not previously been a target market for pharmaceuticals.\n\nAs blood sugar testing for diagnosis of diabetes became more widespread, a curious side effect occurred: because blood sugar testing is not absolutely definitive in diagnoses of diabetes, more people were receiving borderline tests regarding their glycemic status. These borderline persons could be considered as being at risk for diabetes – prediabetic. Prediabetic patients have elevated blood sugar, but normal levels of sugar in their urine (glycosuria). Upjohn saw an opportunity to benefit and definitely market to a yet-greater expansion of the diabetic population, beyond even the \"hidden diabetics\" revealed by earlier public health campaigns. Upjohn also found a new use for Orinase: as a diagnostic. Orinase Diagnostic was added to the Orinase product line and, by 1962, was being sold as means of detecting prediabetes in that an abnormal response to Orinase following administration of cortisone in a \"stress test\" could be taken to indicate prediabetes. Orinase thus not only served to detect a previously hidden patient population, but also detected a patient population most likely to be interested in Orinase as a treatment for their newly diagnosed prediabetes. By the late 1960s, Orinase Diagnostic was withdrawn and the drug reverted to its therapeutic purpose. By that point, prediabetes had become a diagnosable and treatable condition which had dramatically increased the market for Orinase. \n\nOrinase began to fall out of favor in May 1970 when asymptomatic prediabetics on long-term regimens of Orinase began to see news reports (beginning with the \"Washington Post\") that Orinase may have serious side effects including death from cardiovascular problems, according to a long-term study. In many cases, patients learned of this before their physicians, and also before FDA could advise relabeling the medication or suggesting alterations in appropriate usage. The question of whether Orinase did or did not increase cardiovascular problems has not been conclusively settled. The result was that Orinase and other medical treatments for prediabetes were \"rolled back\" by the FDA and practitioners in an attempt to focus on symptomatic patients for whom the risks of treatment might be balanced by the symptoms of the disease. \n\nPharmacia and Upjohn (now merged) stopped making Orinase in 2000, though a generic is still available and occasionally used.\n\nThe history of tolbutamide has had a lasting effect on medicine and the pharmaceutical industry. Patients today are still diagnosed with prediabetes, many of them managing to delay the onset of diabetes through dietary and lifestyle changes, but many also have the option to take metformin, which demonstrated a 31% reduction in three-year incidence of development of diabetes relative to placebo. While impressive, the lifestyle-modification arm of that same trial demonstrated a 58% reduction.\n"}
{"id": "1860120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860120", "title": "ABC Futebol Clube", "text": "ABC Futebol Clube\n\nABC Futebol Clube, or ABC, as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Natal in Rio Grande do Norte. Founded on June 29, 1915.\n\nABC is the Brazilian club that has won most state championships, with 55. It is as well together with América Futebol Clube (MG) the club who won most state championships consecutive(10 titles) between the years of 1932 and 1941. Among the Nordeste, it is the sixth-best ranked nationally of CBF, being the first among Rio Grande do Norte, in 31ºposition. There is another interesting fact about the 55 state championships ABC have, this number places ABC as the club in the world with most championships in the same competition, overcoming the Rangers F.C., from Scotland, that has 54 Scottish Championship. This puts ABC as the biggest champion in the world.\n\nABC is one of the two clubs in Rio Grande do Norte, and one of the few's in Nordeste that owns a stadium, the Frasqueirão, which was constructed to be the new house of the club, it was open on January 22, 2006.\n\nAccording to Datafolha, it is among the most fans in Brazil, being the biggest in \"Rio Grande do Norte\". In this research, the club appears as the 27th biggest for fans in Brazil.\n\nThe historical Potiguar Luís da Câmara Cascudo created an anthological phase about the team:\n\nOn July 21, 2008, it was sanctioned a law in the Natal city, the law n. 9.107/2008, in which it is defined the day June 29 of each year as \"ABC FC Commemorative Day\", honoring, this way, it is foundation.\n\nOn June 29, 1915, precisely at 13 hours, some young of \"Rio Grande do Norte\" high society met in Rio Branco Avenue, in the back of the \"Carlos Gomes Theater\", today Alberto Maranhão Theatre, to decide about the creation of the first football club of \"Rio Grande do Norte\". The meeting to officially the club foundation occurred in the \"Avelino Alves Freire\" house, \"Avelino\" was a respected merchant and president of the Merchant Association of \"Rio Grande do Norte\". \n\nThe first subject to decide in the meeting was the name of the club. One of the founders, \"José Potiguar Pinheiro\", gives the idea of calling the new club as ABC Futebol Clube in which it was unanimously approved. The name ABC is an honor given to the pact of fraternal friendship, diplomatically supported among the countries Argentina, Brazil, and Chile, which aimed the mutual cooperation of those countries, the friendship was confirmed with the sign in , whose letters refer to the initials of the three countries.\n\nThe team incorporated on December 13, 1927, when the Potiguar Football League registered the club charter.\n\nABC's first interstate match was in 1917, defeating Santa Cruz of Recife, Pernambuco 2–1.\n\nABC is in the Guinness Book for having won ten consecutive state championships from 1932 to 1941, sharing this record with América Mineiro, that won ten consecutive titles from 1916 to 1925. The team also is the team with the most state championship titles in Brazil, holding 54 titles.\n\nIn 1979, Rivelino played for ABC in a 1-1 friendly match against Vasco da Gama. In the same year ABC played against the Brazil Olympic team, losing 1–0.\n\nThe club won the Série C in 2010 after beating Ituiutaba in the final.\n\nThe club owns Estádio Maria Lamas Farache, nicknamed \"Frasqueirão\", which has a maximum capacity of 18,000.\n\n\n\n\"As of April 26, 2015\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860129", "title": "Oswald Stoll", "text": "Oswald Stoll\n\nSir Oswald Stoll (20 January 1866 – 9 January 1942) was an Australian-born British theatre manager and the co-founder of the Stoll Moss Group theatre company. He also owned Cricklewood Studios and film production company Stoll Pictures, which was one of the leading British studios of the Silent era.\nIn 1912, he founded the Royal Variety Performance (originally Royal Command Performance) a now-annual charity show which benefits the Entertainment Artistes' Benevolent Fund.\n\nBorn in Melbourne, Australia as Oswald Gray, he moved to England with his mother, Adelaide McConnell Gray after the death of his father James Oswald Gray. When his mother remarried, he took his stepfather's last name, Stoll.\n\nAt a young age, Stoll left school to help his mother, Adelaide, manage first the Parthenon music hall in Liverpool, and later a regional theatre company. The company was a success, and Stoll began to buy or build city theatres. The theatre business made Stoll a wealthy man, and in 1898 he merged his business with that of competitor Edward Moss, to form Moss Empires. By 1905, almost every large town in Great Britain had an \"Empire\" or a \"Coliseum\" theatre, managed by Stoll. He continued to honour the roots of his business by installing his mother in each new box office, so she could take the first ticket sale.\n\nBeginning with the first event in 1912, and continuing until 1926, Stoll was instrumental in presenting the Royal Variety Performance (originally Royal Command Performance) a now-annual charity show benefiting the Entertainment Artistes' Benevolent Fund.\n\nHis film company Stoll Picture Productions was founded in April 1918, and acquired a one-stage studio in Surbiton which the company retained until 1923. A former aeroplane factory in Cricklewood was purchased in 1920 and converted to film use as Cricklewood Studios. Particularly associated with director Maurice Elvey, Stoll's company maintained a connection with the film industry until 1938 when the Cricklewood studio was closed.\n\nStoll worked with the theatre architect Frank Matcham on several theatres, including:\n\n\nStoll was a philanthropist who donated the land in 1916 for the Sir Oswald Stoll Foundation, a charity in Fulham, London for disabled soldiers returning from World War I and their families. The foundation continues to house disabled ex-servicemen and women to this day, but also provides supported housing for veterans suffering from mental ill health, and those who, having left the Forces, have found themselves homeless. \n\nFrom Stoll Foundation workshops designed to help veterans suffering from post traumatic stress through performing Shakespeare stemmed the Combat Veteran Players, or CVP. Since establishment they have performed with the RSC Open Stages programme, at the Old Vic Vaults, and Shakespeare's Globe. In 2014 they were awarded an inaugural Owle Schreame Award for innovation in historical theatre, for their production of Henry V.\n\nStoll married twice. He married his first wife, Harriet Lewis, in Cardiff in 1892, and they had one daughter. Harriet died in 1902, and Stoll married Millicent Shaw the following year. Oswald and Millicent Stoll had three sons. Lady Stoll became President of the Sir Oswald Stoll Foundation following her husband's death.\n\nStoll was knighted by King George V in 1919. He died in 1942 at his home in Putney, 33 Putney Hill.\n\n\nFor an analysis of Stoll's writings see Vincent Barnett, 'A Creditable Performance? Sir Oswald Stoll as Business Strategist and Monetary Heretic', \"Journal of the History of Economic Thought\", September 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860132", "title": "Cheboksarsky District", "text": "Cheboksarsky District\n\nCheboksarsky District (; , \"Shupashkar rayonĕ\") is an administrative and municipal district (raion), one of the twenty-one in the Chuvash Republic, Russia. It is located in the north of the republic and borders with the Mari El Republic in the north, Mariinsko-Posadsky District in the east, Tsivilsky and Krasnoarmeysky Districts in the south, and with Morgaushsky District in the west. The area of the district is . Its administrative center is the urban locality (an urban-type settlement) of Kugesi. Population: \n\nThe Volga River parts the district into a smaller area in the north and a larger southern area which contains the majority of the population.\n\nThe district was established on September 5, 1927.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860133", "title": "ATWA", "text": "ATWA\n\nATWA (an acronym for Air, Trees, Water, Animals and All The Way Alive) is the ecological belief system propounded by Charles Manson, who was later convicted of conspiracy to commit murder as the leader of the communal Manson Family. ATWA names the interrelated life support systems of the Earth. Charles Manson and his associates, most notably Lynette Fromme and Sandra Good, use the term to name the forces of life which they believe hold the balance of the Earth.\n\nManson was paroled in 1967 and found a welcoming environment in the burgeoning counterculture. Together with a small retinue of disaffected young people, he took flight from what he characterized as the \"madness of the cities\" and established a communal colony at Spahn Ranch in the Santa Susana mountains outside of Los Angeles, California. The group began to make survivalist forays into Death Valley in order to scout out more remote areas of the desert. In September 1969 some members attempted to thwart nearby road developments by deliberately setting an expensive piece of earth-moving equipment on fire. This early act of eco-terrorism occurred a number of years before the concept was popularized by Edward Abbey, Dave Foreman, and other environmentalists.\n\nIn the years following Manson's conviction and imprisonment for conspiracy to commit the murders of seven people, Lynette Fromme and Sandra Good became increasingly active in their efforts to raise awareness of the present system's failure to properly steward the Earth.\n\nIn 1975, Lynette Fromme was found guilty of the attempted assassination of then-president Gerald Ford. While questioned in custody she was asked why she had pointed the gun; she stated, \"I stood up and waved a gun (at Ford) for a reason, I was so relieved not to have to shoot it, but, in truth, I came to get life. Not just my life but clean air, healthy water and respect for creatures and creation.\" In August 2009, Fromme was released from federal prison after serving 34 years.\n\nSandra Good was imprisoned for 10 years for conspiracy to send threatening letters to corporate executives unless their corporations ceased polluting the environment. After her release in 1985, Good led a campaign against International Paper Co. which she said was harming Lake Champlain.\n\nMetal band System of A Down has a song named \"ATWA\" on their highly acclaimed 2001 album, Toxicity.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860137", "title": "Ugo Ehiogu", "text": "Ugo Ehiogu\n\nUgochuku Ehiogu (; 3 November 1972 – 21 April 2017) was an English professional footballer who played as a centre back from 1989 to 2009. He was the coach of the Tottenham Hotspur U23 team until his death in April 2017.\n\nHe played in the Premier League with lengthy spells at Aston Villa and Middlesbrough. He also played in the Football League for West Bromwich Albion, Leeds United and Sheffield United, as well as a spell in the Scottish Premier League with Rangers. He won two Football League Cups, with Aston Villa in 1996 and then with Middlesbrough in 2004. Ehiogu was an England international, with a record of 4 caps and 1 goal. In 1993, playing for the England under-21 team, he became the first black player to captain an England team in a competitive match. In 2012, he came out of brief retirement by signing for non-league side Wembley to participate in the club's FA Cup games alongside other retired veteran players.\n\nEhiogu died on 21 April 2017 after suffering a cardiac arrest at Tottenham Hotspur's training ground.\n\nEhiogu was born in Hackney, London, into a family of Nigerian background. He began his career at West Bromwich Albion as a trainee, turning professional in 1989.\n\nAfter just a few games for Albion in the Second Division, Ron Atkinson brought him to First Division club Aston Villa for a £40,000 fee in August 1991. By 1994, he had replaced Shaun Teale as the main central defensive partner to Paul McGrath.\n\nIn the 1993–94 season Villa played Tranmere Rovers over two legs in the semi final of the League Cup in which Ehiogu took part in the second leg. Ehiogu was selected as a substitute and came on to replace Ray Houghton during the game helping the team to a 3–1 win leaving the two legs at 4–4 on aggregate. In the following penalty shootout he went on the take the 5th penalty which he struck against the bar and missed. Ron Atkinson had told \"The Independent\" newspaper that it was \"the most dramatic football match\" of his managerial career. Villa went on to win the shoot out for a League Cup showdown with Manchester United which Ehiogu missed out on.\n\nIn the 1994-95 season Villa competed in the UEFA Cup where in the second round second leg in a match against Turkish club Trabzonspor Ehiogu scored in the 90th minute in a 2–1 home win. However this wasn't enough as Trabzonspor won 2–2 on aggregate knocking Villa out of the competition.\n\nHe was part of the Villa team that won the 1995–96 Football League Cup, as Villa beat Leeds United 3–0 in the final. Ehiogu also won a runners-up medal when Villa lost 1–0 to Chelsea in the 2000 FA Cup Final.\n\nHe remained at the club for nine years, making over 300 appearances in all competitions until November 2000 when he joined Middlesbrough from Villa for, at the time, a club record fee of £8 million. The deal went ahead after negotiations between Villa and West Bromwich Albion, whose 50% sell-on clause on the player had been seen as a stumbling block to the move.\n\nHis career at Boro got off on the wrong foot when he was forced to limp off with a calf injury five minutes into his debut at Charlton Athletic. Whilst at Middlesbrough, Ehiogu quickly became a mainstay in the central defence since joining the club and rejoining his former teammate Gareth Southgate in central defence. He missed the start of the 2003–04 season with a knee injury sustained in the final match of the previous season. He returned in time to play in Boro's League Cup final win against Bolton Wanderers, the first major trophy in the club's history. Only into the third game at the start of 2004–05 season Ehiogu had an accidental clash with his own keeper Mark Schwarzer which resulted in knee ligament damage. Again he was forced to miss many important games, although Boro still managed to secure a place in the UEFA Cup for a second successive season.\n\nHe agreed a loan move to West Bromwich Albion during the January transfer window of 2006, but this move was cancelled when a number of Middlesbrough players became injured. West Brom then tried to secure a permanent transfer, but were unable to agree personal terms with Ehiogu.\n\nOn 23 November 2006 he moved to Leeds United on loan. He made six appearances and scored one goal against Barnsley and also an own goal against Stoke, during his spell at Leeds, which ended in January 2007 when his loan deal expired. After returning to Boro, he made one final appearance for the club.\n\nEhiogu was released from his contract at Middlesbrough and signed an 18-month contract with Scottish Premier League club Rangers in January 2007. His first goal for Rangers came in March 2007 with a spectacular overhead kick in his first Old Firm game, giving Rangers a 1–0 win against Celtic. The Rangers fans voted for Ehiogu's goal against Celtic as their \"Goal of the Season\".\n\nEhiogu found his first team opportunities limited at the start of the 2007–08 season, with Carlos Cuéllar and David Weir being preferred by manager Walter Smith. He was released by Rangers that January.\n\nOn 16 January 2008 it was reported that Sheffield United were interested in signing Ehiogu. The next day he was released by Rangers and travelled down to Sheffield for talks with club manager Bryan Robson. He completed the move on 18 January 2008. Ehiogu made his first team debut for the Blades in a 1–1 home draw with Watford at the end of January, and was used a defensive cover for the remainder of the season.\n\nWith injuries and suspensions to his fellow defenders in the early stages of the following season he forced his way into the first team and was rewarded with what turned out to be his only goal in Blades colours, scoring the winner against Preston North End in October 2008. Having embarked on his most successful spell for United he suffered an injury in the Boxing Day game against Wolves which sidelined him for the rest of the season. After the Blades failed to gain promotion, Ehiogu was released at the end of the season when his contract expired as the club tried to cut costs.\n\nOn 3 August 2009, Ehiogu retired from football after a trial with Milton Keynes Dons.\n\nOn 24 August 2012 Ehiogu came out of retirement to sign for Wembley, agreeing to play in the club's FA Cup games alongside fellow former professionals Ray Parlour, Martin Keown, Claudio Caniggia, Brian McBride and Graeme Le Saux. Ehiogu played alongside Caniggia in the club's 2–2 draw with Uxbridge in the preliminary round. Wembley subsequently lost the replay 5–0.\n\nIn April 1993, Ehiogu became the first black player to captain an England team in a competitive match, in a game for the England U21 team against the Netherlands. Ehiogu made his senior England debut on 23 May 1996, replacing Tony Adams after 76 minutes of a 3–0 friendly win against China at the Workers' Stadium in Beijing.\nHe went on to win another three caps in friendly matches and scored once for his country, a header in a 3–0 victory over Spain on 28 February 2001 at Villa Park.\n\nEhiogu worked with the England under-20 football team in 2013 and was part of Peter Taylor's coaching team at the 2013 FIFA U-20 World Cup.\n\nFollowing a period working part-time with the Tottenham Hotspur Academy, Ehiogu was appointed under-21 team (subsequently reclassified as U23) coach as part of Tottenham Hotspur F.C. Academy in July 2014. Writing after he had suffered a heart attack, Henry Winter noted that Ehiogu \"is one of the most thoughtful English coaches, frequently talking eloquently about the need for English football to have a more distinct culture and commit more to age-group tournaments so that senior internationals of the future can experience differing styles\".\n\nEhiogu married Gemma Coleman in 2005. The couple had a son, Obi Jackson, together. Ehiogu also had a daughter Jodie from a previous relationship. After retiring, Ehiogu jointly founded a successful record label, Dirty Hit.\n\nOn 20 April 2017, Ehiogu collapsed due to a cardiac arrest at the Tottenham Hotspur training ground and was taken to hospital, where he died early the next morning at the age of 44. In the aftermath, it was announced that Ehiogu's widow Gemma would set up a charity in his honour. She used social media site JustGiving with the aim of raising £1,000 to start the charity. By 24 April, the appeal had raised £11,000. In the days following Ehiogu's death, many clubs held tributes to him in the form of a minute's applause before matches, in which players wore black armbands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860148", "title": "Mika Tauriainen", "text": "Mika Tauriainen\n\nMika Tauriainen (born 5 January 1975 Sweden) is a Finnish vocalist. He is currently a member of gothic metal band Entwine, Frostlit and ex-vocalist of atmospheric rock band ShamRain.\n\nWith Entwine\n\n\nSingles With Entwine\n\n\nWith ShamRain\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860157", "title": "Toxoid", "text": "Toxoid\n\nA toxoid is an inactivated toxin (usually an exotoxin) whose toxicity has been suppressed either by chemical (formalin) or heat treatment, while other properties, typically immunogenicity, are maintained. Toxins are secreted by bacteria, whereas toxoids are altered form of toxins; toxoids are \"not\" secreted by bacteria. Thus, when used during vaccination, an immune response is mounted and immunological memory is formed against the molecular markers of the toxoid without resulting in toxin-induced illness. Such a preparation is also known as an anatoxin. There are toxoids for prevention of diphtheria, tetanus and botulism.\n\nToxoids are used as vaccines because they induce an immune response to the original toxin or increase the response to another antigen since the toxoid markers and toxin markers are preserved. For example, the tetanus toxoid is derived from the tetanospasmin produced by \"Clostridium tetani\". The latter causes tetanus and is vaccinated against by the DTaP vaccine. Botulin is produced by \"Clostridium botulinum\" and causes the deadly disease botulism. While patients may sometimes complain of side effects after a vaccine, these are associated with the process of mounting an immune response and clearing the toxoid, not the direct effects of the toxoid. The toxoid does not have virulence as the toxin did before inactivation.\n\nMultiple doses of tetanus toxoid are used by many plasma centers in the United States for the development of highly immune persons for the production of human anti-tetanus immune globulin (tetanus immune globulin (TIG), HyperTet (c)), which has replaced horse serum-type tetanus antitoxin in most of the developed world.\n"}
{"id": "1860158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860158", "title": "Carrie Stevens", "text": "Carrie Stevens\n\nCarrie Stevens (born May 1, 1969) is an American model, actress, and entrepreneur. She was \"Playboy's\" Playmate of the Month for June 1997, and was the cover model for the fall 2002 issue of Gene Simmons' magazine, \"Gene Simmons Tongue\" (which also included a feature article, \"Carrie Stevens: Confessions of a Rock Starlet\").\n\nCarrie Stevens was born in Buffalo, New York and grew up in Hardwick, Massachusetts. Later she studied journalism at Memphis State University. Growing up, her family composted and grew their own organic fruits and vegetables, milked goats to make cheese, and kept chickens for their eggs. Her father was a research scientist and her mother was an artist. When her parents divorced, she went with her mother to Memphis, Tennessee.\n\nAfter being spotted in a dentist's waiting room by a Hollywood talent agent, Stevens first television appearance was on an episode of the daytime soap opera \"Days of Our Lives\" in 1992. She has appeared in numerous television shows, including the Sci Fi Channel's \"Black Scorpion\" along with an episode of \"Wild On!\" for E! Entertainment Television. In addition, she's had small roles in \"Pacific Blue\" and \"Beverly Hills, 90210\", the daytime TV drama \"Days of Our Lives\" and \"18 Wheels of Justice\". She guest starred on \"Jake in Progress\" and \"Two and a Half Men\".\n\nStevens has had a small roles in the 2001 movies \"Vegas, City of Dreams\" and \"Rock Star\" with Mark Wahlberg and Jennifer Aniston, and the 2013 movie \"\". She was featured in the Third Eye Blind video for “Never Let You Go” from their 1999 CD release \"Blue\".\n\nStevens wrote a monthly column for \"Hot Mom's Club\" magazine.\n\nStevens founded the online green fashion magazine \"Envi-Image\". She had several fellow Playmates model clothing for her. The website is now defunct, but when it was in operation it provided coverage of the green lifestyle and showcased environmentally friendly apparel, jewelry, make-up, hair and skincare products. Stevens also founded another website called \"PlaymatesforthePlanet.com\" which promoted environmental and green efforts.\n\nStevens also owns \"Carrie Stevens Infamous Family Fudge\" which sells fudge online. Launched in 2014, the company's products are inspired by her grandmother's recipes for fudge.\n\nIn 1987 Stevens met Eric Carr, then-drummer of the rock band Kiss, who was 37 at the time. She spent nearly four years in a relationship with Carr until his death in 1991, and was interviewed at length for the 2011 book \"The Eric Carr Story\". She now lives in Los Angeles with her son Jaxon, born from a subsequent relationship with her ex-boyfriend, film director Stephen Herek.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860159", "title": "Yoot Saito", "text": "Yoot Saito\n\nHis first major game release was \"SimTower\", developed by his previous company OPeNBooK Co., Ltd. and published by Maxis in 1994. He was also involved in the sequel, \"Yoot Tower\", the Game Boy Advance remake called \"The Tower SP\", and the Nintendo DS remake called \"The Tower DS\". After founding Vivarium, he published some of his most famous games, including \"Seaman\", a virtual pet game which was one of the best selling titles for the Dreamcast in Japan, and \"Odama\", a curious mix of pinball and real time strategy. Both of these games make use of their respective consoles' microphone peripherals.\n\nYutaka Saitou studied at Komaba Touhou Junior High and High School , and later at Waseda University where he was enrolled in the department of science and engineering studying Architecture. After graduating he joined recruitment agency Recruit. During his tenure there he published the independently developed the game, The Tower, which was licensed under the SimCity series and launched as 'SimTower' abroad. The game became a worldwide hit, earning him the Codie award establishing Yutaka Saitou as a prominent game developer. Later he was also awarded the Nikkei BP's Venture of the Year award in the Young Entrepreneur category.\n\nAfter leaving Recruit, he established his own game development company Vivarium, but continued to serve in an honorary fellow position at Recruit for 5 years. The first game developed by Vivarium was Seaman released for the Dreamcast. Seaman was a major hit on the console, becoming a cultural phenomenon even outside of the gaming world. Seaman was later ported to both PlayStation 2 and Windows, receiving multiple awards, including an Excellence Award for Interactive Art at the 1999 Japan Media Arts Festival[1], the DIME Trend award, and the Original Game Character of the Year award at GDC 2002. Yutaka Saitou currently serves as the representative director of both Vivarium and his earlier company OPeNBooK.\n\nYutaka Saitou was at one point considered a Mac Evangelist. He published \"Under the Apple Tree\" (Ringo no ki no shita de, 林檎の樹の下で) which details the turbulent events between the first Apple computer being imported into Japan and Apple Japan being established. He also published \"The Secrets of Macintosh's creation\" (Makkintosshu Tanjou no Hiwa, マッキントッシュ誕生の秘話), which features interviews with both the founding members and other core developers.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001 he served as an adviser to Sega, contributing to their corporate strategy. Following this he developed the Nintendo Gamecube game 'Odama', and in 2007 released a successor to Seaman titled 'Seaman 2'.\n\nHe is also known for suggesting the addition of a speaker to the Wii controller after its initial announcement., and for being the writer of the exposition portion of the Ultraman Research Introduction ()\n\nHe is an avid digital photographer, wielding a Leica M8 and Hasselblad 503CWD among others.\nHe has spent some time living in America, where he goes by the name 'Yoot' Saito.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860161", "title": "Ormož", "text": "Ormož\n\nOrmož (; , Prekmurje Slovene: \"Ormošd\") is a town in the traditional region of Prlekija, part of Styria, in northeastern Slovenia. It lies on the left bank of the Drava River and borders with Croatia on the opposite bank of the river. It is the administrative seat of the Municipality of Ormož.\n\nOrmož was attested in written records in 1273 as \"Holermůs\" (and as \"Holrmues\" in 1299 and \"Holrmůs\" in 1320). The name is based on the Latinized name \"Alramus\", borrowed from Germanic \"Alram\" (< *\"Aþala-hraban\", literally 'noble ravan'). The person designated by the name is uncertain, but a possible namesake is Salzburg Bishop A(da)lram (reigned 821–836) because the Ormož area became the property of the Archbishopric of Salzburg in the ninth century.\n\nThe parish church in the town is dedicated to Saint James. It was first mentioned in written sources dated to 1271. It was rebuilt on a number of occasions in the 16th, 17th, and 18th centuries. It contains frescos from the 14th and 17th centuries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860168", "title": "Sergey Glazyev", "text": "Sergey Glazyev\n\nSergey Yurievich Glazyev () (born January 1, 1961, in Zaporozhye, Ukrainian SSR, USSR) is a Russian politician and economist, advisor to the president of the Russian Federation on regional economic integration, member of the National Financial Council of the Bank of Russia, and, since 2008, a full member of the Russian Academy of Sciences. Dr. Glazyev was the minister of Foreign Economic Relations in Yeltsin's cabinet and the only member of the Russian government to resign in protest of President Yeltsin's abolition of the Parliament and the Constitution in 1993. Glazyev was a member of the State Duma in 1993-2007, a candidate for the Presidency of the Russian Federation in 2004, and one of the leaders of the electoral block Rodina in 2003-2004.\n\nBorn in Zaporizhia, in the Ukrainian SSR as the son of a Russian father and a Ukrainian mother, Glazyev attended Moscow State University, earning a Doctor of Philosophy in economics. He entered government service in 1991, becoming First Deputy Minister of External Economic Relations under Yegor Gaidar. He served in this capacity for a year, and then was promoted to Minister by Viktor Chernomyrdin, serving until 1993, when he resigned.\n\nElected to the State Duma as a member of the Democratic Party of Russia in 1993, he first associated with his then-friend, and later bitter rival, Dmitry Rogozin. He resigned from office before his first four-year term was complete, as he had been named economic security advisor for the Federation Council of Russia and head of the Council's analytical department. He was also associated with Rogozin and Aleksandr Lebed in the short-lived nationalist political project, the Congress of Russian Communities.\n\nIn 1999, he resigned once again to run for the Duma, and was elected this time as an independent on the list of the Communist Party of the Russian Federation. This time, however, he clashed with the party's leadership and, in 2003, he abandoned the party to help form Rodina, a nationalist party on the left wing of the Russian political spectrum. That year, he became one of 37 Rodina candidates elected to the State Duma. Other prominent candidates included Dmitry Rogozin, Chairman of the Duman Foreign Affairs Committee and co-chairman (with Glazyev) of Rodina, and also former Central Bank head Viktor Gerashchenko.\n\nIn 2004, both Glazyev and Gerashchenko sought the presidency on separate tickets, with Rodina's leaders voting to remain neutral in the contest. Gerashchenko was nominated as the candidate of one of the minor parties that made up the Rodina coalition, which led to the Central Election Commission refusing to place him on the ballot, as he had not been nominated by the whole party. Glazyev, who had nominated himself as an Independent, did not have any such problems, and appeared on the ballot.\n\nDuring the election, Glazyev portrayed himself as a champion of social justice and an opponent of political corruption, particularly in the form of the Russian oligarchs. He pledged to write a guarantee of a high standard of living into the constitution, provide universal health care and free public education, triple the minimum wage, protect the rights of trade unions, redistribute the wealth belonging to the oligarchs, and increase economic growth. He also promised to eradicate the notorious Russian Mafia, purge corrupt bureaucrats and police, and protect the country from terrorism. This platform proved to be moderately popular, and Glazyev received 2,826,641 votes, or 4.1%–third place out of a field of six.\n\nFollowing the election, Rogozin, who had long sought to remove his rival from party power, succeeded in getting the party rank-and-file to vote Glazyev out as co-chairman, leaving Rogozin in control. This led to Glazyev and his supporters attempting to form their own party, called For a Decent Life, although this, too, suffered a setback when the Ministry of Justice refused to recognize the validity of the party.\n\nFollowing a split between Rogozin and Sergei Baburin in 2005, Glazyev re-joined the Rodina faction and reconciled with his former political partner. After Rogozin was replaced as party leader by Aleksander Babakov in early 2006, Rodina merged with the Russian Party of Life and the Russian Pensioners' Party in 2006 to create a new party, Fair Russia.\n\nGlazyev announced his retirement from politics in March 2007, and said that he did not intend to seek a further term in the Duma, arguing that Vladimir Putin's rule had crowded out all forms of political opposition and debate in the country.\n\nGlazyev endorsed Putin in the 2012 presidential election.\n\nIn July 2012, Putin appointed Glazyev as presidential aide for the coordination of the work of federal agencies in developing the Customs Union of Belarus, Kazakhstan, and Russia.\n\nGlazyev has authored more than forty books and hundreds of pamphlets and research papers. One of his books has been published in English translation by the LaRouche movement's Executive Intelligence Review as \"Genocide: Russia and the New World Order\" (). In 1995 he was awarded the Gold Kondratieff Medal by the International N. D. Kondratieff Foundation and the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences (RAEN).\n\nOn March 17, 2014, a day after the Crimean status referendum, Glazyev was one of the first seven persons who were placed under executive sanctions by President Obama. The sanctions froze his assets in the US and banned him from entering the United States. However, according to Glazyev, he has not been negatively affected by these sanctions because he has neither property nor accounts of any sort in the United States, nor had he any plans to come to America.\n\nIn his 1999 book, \"A Genocide: Russia And The New World Order\", Glazyev argues that the rate of annual population loss in Russia in the 1990s has been \"more than double the rate of loss during the period of Stalinist repression and mass famine in the first half of the 1930s... There has been nothing like this in the thousand-year history of Russia.\" Glazyev traces this decline to \"the conscious policy of the oligarchy that ruled the country. Its exploitation of power for purposes of personal enrichment effectively led to genocide against the Russian people.\"\n\nThe book then underlines Glazyev's views of the stark choice that confronted Russia on the verge of the 21st century:\n\nEither we passively submit to a suicidal policy of self-destruction and the colonization of Russia, which has been imposed from the outside by deception and graft, or we . . . move to a scientifically grounded strategy for economic growth, improvement of the people's welfare, and restoration of the spiritual-intellectual strength and the scientific and technical potential of the Russian State.\n\nIn an interview with the \"National Interest\", Glazyev said:\n\nThe entire crisis in Ukraine was orchestrated, provoked, and financed by American institutions in cooperation with their European partners. They financed neo-Nazis. For fifteen years, the U.S. and Europeans financed neo-Nazis' training, their camps, and preparation. By U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Victoria Nuland's acknowledgement, the State Department spent $5 billion on the creation of an anti-Russian political and paramilitary elite. This work led to the sad situation that now in Ukraine neo-Nazi and neo-fascists ideas prevail, as does admiration for, more than anything, Stepan Bandera's associates who in their time murdered Jews, Ukrainians, Russians, Poles, and whomever they wanted, burning or otherwise killing them under Nazi leadership.\n\nIn August 2013 Glazyev said that stating that all Ukrainians favor Ukraine to integrate in the European Union \"is some kind of sick self-delusion\" and, citing a December 2012 poll, said \"surveys by Ukrainian sociological services say something different: 35% of people prefer the European Union and 40% the Customs Union\". He blamed \"numerous political scientists and experts, who have fed on European and American grants for 20 years, and a whole generation of diplomats and bureaucrats that has appeared after the years of the 'orange' hysteria, who are carrying out an anti-Russian agenda\" and \"who are too far from the economy and real life, don't really know their country's history and are divorced from its spiritual traditions\" for creating \"an effect that Ukraine doesn't want\".\n\nHowever, opinion polls, e.g., a poll by German state-owned broadcaster Deutsche Welle, show that the majority of Ukrainians prefer joining the European Union rather than the Custom Union.\n\nIn June 2014, in an interview with the BBC, he called the new President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, illegitimately elected due to the lack of votes in Ukraine's Easternmost provinces; the signing on the 27th of June 2014 of Ukraine–European Union Association Agreement likewise illegitimate. Glazyev also called Poroshenko a Nazi: \"Europe is trying to push Ukraine to sign this agreement by force ... They organised [a] military coup in Ukraine, they helped Nazis to come to power. This Nazi government is bombing the largest region in Ukraine.\" Asked if he believed Mr Poroshenko was a Nazi, he replied: \"Of course.\"\n\nOn 2 July 2014, Glazyev warned about economic consequences following the association of Ukraine with the European Union, \"Be objective — the association with the EU imposed on Ukraine by force is leading to the sharp deterioration of the already poor state of Ukraine's economy, the reduction of its competitiveness, the forcing of Ukrainian goods out of the market and drop in their production, increased unemployment and decreased living standards.\"\n\nBy August 2017, Glazyev averred that \"Today Ukraine is an occupied territory. There is no legitimate power, there is no one to talk to, there are no people who can take responsibility for the implementation of political agreements. There are only servicemen of American aggressors who receive instructions from the American embassy, from there they receive funding and, in fact, serve American interests in Ukraine.\"\n\nIn 2016 Ukraine's Prosecutor General published wiretaps of telephone calls between Glazyev and a number of people in Ukraine directly involved in organizing pro-Russian mass riots in Odessa, Kharkiv and other cities in 2014. In the call Glazyev gives instructions on how to increase the impact of these riots and turn them into occupation of administration buildings as well as gives instructions on receiving funding. He also instructs Sergey Aksyonov on how the Crimean referendum should be formulated.\n\nIn the intercepts Glazyev makes it clear that the riots and protests must look as if they were grassroots and inspired by local residents in spite of the fact that large part of funding for the pro-Russian militants came from Russia. Further investigation also demonstrated significant involvement of Glazyev into the events that led to the tragedy in Odessa on 2 May 2014.\n\nIn a 2016 Konstantin Zatulin gave an interview for Russian Radio Business FM in which he confirmed that the calls indeed took place, only noting that the recordings were \"taken out of context\".\nIn 2015, Glazyev felt that the American capitalist model was entering an inevitable, very dangerous, phase of self-destruction. We are, he felt, \"truly on the verge of a global war.\" Although this coming war poses a great danger for Russia, Glazyev said that the USA will fail to achieve its hegemonic goals of controlling Russia and the entire world.\n\nFollowing the August 2017 round of sanctions against the Russian Federation by the American Congress, Glazyev suggested that the USA should be officially designated as an \"aggressor country.\" Believing that United States' power is based in part on the status of the dollar as the world's reserve currency, Glazyev suggested that Russia abandons the dollar and liquidates its sizeable ($110 billion in August 2017) investment in the U.S. Federal Reserve.\n\nAlongside Sergey Lavrov and Dmitry Medvedev, Glazyev is often spoken about as a potential successor of Putin. \"In view of the difficult economic situation in the country, the assumption that Glazyev will take perhaps the central position in government is heard more and more often.\"\n\nOn 5 July 2014, the head of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) Valentyn Nalyvaichenko announced that a criminal action was brought against Glazyev under Ukraine's Criminal Code Article 436 (public appeals for unleashing a military conflict). Glazyev replied that \"the SBU in Ukraine exerts the same function as the Gestapo did in the Nazi Germany.\" In his words, \"the SBU is a criminal organization, and its leadership is completely controlled by American secret services.\"\n\nGlazyev ran as an independent candidate in the 2004 Russian presidential election. His campaign slogans were “We’ll take Russia back” and “There is a choice”.\n\nRussians were largely indifferent towards his candidacy, due largely to his unlikelihood of victory.\n\nWhile he (and other challengers of Putin) had been polling in the single-digits, Glazeyev was seen by observers as the candidate with the most likely chance of experiencing a last-minute surge in support and posing a challenge to Putin. He was seen as a relatively strong candidate. This partially derived from the fact that his Rodina bloc had seen its share of support surge at the tail end of the 2003 legislative election from nearly zero to 9%. However, that was largely due to an effort by the Kremlin to increase support of Rodina to the detriment of the Communist Party. Additionally, analysts believed that Glazyev held greater potential than Gennady Zyuganov would of appealing to moderate left Russians. This made him the challenger which the Putin campaign was most focussed on, as Putin hoped to avoid seeing any opponent achieve a strong enough performance that they might be perceived as a potential frontrunner for the next presidential election.\n\nGlazyev had hoped that he could perform well enough in the election to cement a perception of him as the rising political star of the Russian far-left.\n\nGlazyev had greater name recognition than many of the other candidates that were running against Putin. Glazyev was, arguably, best known to support of raising taxes on the high-earning natural resource companies.\n\nGlazyev declared that, while he found Putin to be a charismatic leader, he considered his policies to be too weak. He criticized Putin for running, \"a corrupt and irresponsible regime\". In an op-ed he authored, Glazyev declared, \"I am running to cleanse the state apparatus of corruption and bureaucratic arbitrariness\".\n\nGlazyev had initially failed to receive the backing of Rodina, which had instead nominated Viktor Gerashchenko. Thus, he instead ran as a self-nominated candidate. After Gerashchenko's candidacy was rejected by the Central Election Commission, Glazyev tried to position himself as an alternative candidate to Gerashchenko, should Gerashchenko's attempt to challenge his disqualification falter. However, Rodina co-chair Dmitry Rogozin disavowed Glazyev's candidacy, insisting that Gerashchenko was the only candidate that Rodina was going to support, and that the party would fight in the Supreme Court for the reinstatement of Geraschenko's registration.\n\nBehind Rogozin's back (while he was out of the country), Glazyev organized a gathering of Rodina delegates, at which the party reorganized as a “social organization,” and elected Glazyev as its sole leader. They relegated Rogozin's position in the party to one of twenty-five members on its governing council. After the Supreme Court upheld the disqualification of Gerashchenko, Rogozin personally endorsed Putin rather than supporting Glazyev. The party, now led by Glazyev, was able to provide support to his campaign.\n\nGlazyev ultimately failed to muster momentum he had hoped for and placed a weak third, capturing only 4.10% of the vote. Glazyev managed to perform better in some federal subjects than in others. For instance, in Krasnoyarsk he managed to place second with 17% of its vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860174", "title": "Le Dain Commission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs", "text": "Le Dain Commission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs\n\nThe Commission of Inquiry into the Non-Medical Use of Drugs, often referred to as the Le Dain Commission after its chair Dean Gerald Le Dain, was a Canadian government commission that was begun in 1969 and completed its work in 1972.\n\nThe recommendations of Gerald Le Dain, Heinz Lehmann and J. Peter Stein included legalization of the simple possession of cannabis and cultivation for personal use. Marie-Andrée Bertrand, writing for a minority view, recommended a policy of legal distribution of cannabis, that it be removed from the Narcotic Control Act (since replaced by the Controlled Drugs and Substances Act) and that the provinces implement controls on possession and cultivation, similar to those governing the use of alcohol. The fifth commissioner, Ian L. Campbell, recommended a policy of ticketing for smoking in public.\n\nThe report also recommended that the federal government conduct further research to monitor and evaluate changes in the extent and patterns of the use of cannabis and other drugs, and to explore possible consequences to health, and personal and social behaviour, resulting from the controlled legal distribution of cannabis.\n\nA total of 365 submissions were presented at the hearings and an additional 50 were forwarded to the commission's office. About 12,000 people attended and participated in these hearings, which included testimony from a number of prominent individuals including John Lennon on 22 December 1969 in Montreal, Quebec.\n\nAlthough the report was widely praised for its thoroughness and thoughtfulness, its conclusions were largely ignored by the Trudeau federal government. Pierre Trudeau's son, Justin Trudeau, became Prime Minister of Canada 45 years later, and this Trudeau has completed the process to legalize cannabis in Canada in 2017. Until legislation was enacted, marijuana remained illegal (except with a physician's prescription for medical purposes). He insisted that police \"enforce the law\": criminally charge illegal storefront dispensaries. Trudeau also explained that the intent of the legislation was not to encourage recreational use of cannabis. The intent is \"to better protect our kids from the easy access they have right now to marijuana [and] to remove the criminal elements that were profiting from marijuana,\" he told the Toronto Star on 2 December 2016. On June 20, 2018, the Federal Government announced that possession of marijuana (cannabis) would no longer be illegal in Canada effective on October 17, 2018, almost 50 years since the establishment of the LeDain Commission \n\n"}
{"id": "1860176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860176", "title": "Ben", "text": "Ben\n\nBen is frequently used as a shortened version of the given names Benjamin, Benedict, or Benson, and is also a very common given name in its own right.\n\nBen (in , \"Son of\") forms part of surnames, e.g. Abraham ben Abraham (). Bar-, \"son of\" in Aramaic, is also seen, e.g. Simon bar Kokhba ().\n\nThe Arabic \"Bin\" (بن) or \"Ibn\" (ابن) or \"Ben\" (dialectal Arabic) means \"son of\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860194", "title": "Shahjalal University of Science and Technology", "text": "Shahjalal University of Science and Technology\n\nShahjalal University of Science and Technology (SUST) is a public research university based in Sylhet, Bangladesh. It is the 8th oldest university of the country and the first university to adopt American credit system. The university is known for it's pioneering research and education in the physical sciences and engineering. In 2016, SUST ranked as the top research university in Bangladesh (610th in the world) by Scopus-SCImago institution ranking. In 2017, the university had highest research expenditure among all universities in Bangladesh. Following the success of SUST, twelve more STEM universities have been established in the country by the Government of Bangladesh.\n\nShahjalal University of Science and Technology was established in 1986. The campus is located in Kumargaon, approximately six kilometers away from the heart of Sylhet City Centre. The university started its academic programme with three departments: physics, chemistry and economics. Renowned scientist and educator Dr. Sadruddin Ahmed Chowdhury was the first Vice-chancellor of the university. The first convocation of SUST was held on 29 April 1998 and the second convocation held on 6 December 2007 where the third convocation was held on 8 January 2020. At present, SUST has 7,662 students, 487 academic staffs and 772 administrative staffs; i.e. the university has 6.09 students per staff.\n\nSUST is the first university in Bangladesh providing whole campus free Wi-fi access for students and staff. The university introduced an integrated honors course for the first time in Bangladesh and it introduced the semester system (American credit system) from the 1996-97 session. In 2019, Executive Committee of the National Economic Council (ECNEC) allocated BDT 9.88 billion (USD 117 million) fund for 20 development projects of SUST.\n\nThe students of \"SUST\" invented and introduced the paperless 24/7 SMS Based Automated Registration of Admission Test procedure for the first time in Bangladesh. Interested students can complete the registration process through mobile phone messages. The contemporary government launched the system on 13 September 2009. For the invention, the University won an Ambillion Award in a competition of South Asian countries in 2010 and National Award for E-Content and ICT for Development Award 2010. Now, most of the public universities in Bangladesh have adopted this process of registration.\n\nSUST enrolls undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate students. All applicants need to pass the admission test arranged by the specific schools under the authority of admission council, which is highly competitive. In 2018-19 session, SUST received 76,068 undergraduate applications only admitting 1,448; an acceptance rate of 1.90%. A total of 71,018 students vied for 1,703 seats at the university for the session 2019-2020.\n\nSUST gives high priority on research. In 2017, the university spent in research; the highest research expenditure among all universities in Bangladesh, almost double of the 2nd one.\n\nIn 2016, SUST ranked as the top research university in Bangladesh (\"610th\" in the world) by Scopus-SCImago institution ranking. In 2019, it ranked \"337th\" in Asia and \"610th\" in the world among 3,471 higher educational institutions. SUST ranked at \"445th\" for research and \"493rd\" for innovation in the world. In 2015, Webometrics Ranking of World Universities ranked SUST as the \"top\" university of Bangladesh.\n\nIn 2018, the team from SUST became the world champion of NASA Space Apps Challenge among 1,395 local winning teams from around the world. In the International Theoretical Physics Olympiad 2019, seven teams from SUST got place among finalist 88 and achieved \"15th\" spot in the world (highest individual achievement of an Asian University).\n\nThe biggest yearly conference of SUST is International Conference on Engineering Research, Innovation and Education (ICERIE). In ICERIE, several hundred universities attend from different parts of the world and present research papers in the different fields of applied sciences, architecture and engineering.\n\nOther major conferences of SUST:\n\nIn 2019, SUST organized the first-ever International Convention of Vice-Chancellors (ICVC) in Bangladesh. In 1999, SUST hosted the 3rd International Conference on Computer and Information Technology. In addition to these, the academic departments host numerous conferences on respective fields regularly.\n\nSUST has academic and research collaboration with following institutes:\n\n\n\nSince 2011, SUST has arranged an annual three-day CSE Carnival. The carnival features a programming contest, software developing competition, and related events. In 2015, it involved 1,000 students in 145 teams from 46 universities.\n\nSUST organizes a program on its campus on behalf of Hult Prize Foundation. The Hult Prize On Campus Program brings Hult Prize directly to universities around the world. This international program allows student leaders to organize their own localized version of the Hult Prize on campus, using a turnkey tool kit and the support of dedicated staff at the Hult Prize Foundation.\n\nSUST is the first public university to introduce undergraduate programs in Software Engineering in Bangladesh. It is the second oldest in the country to introduce engineering education in the fields of Chemical, Computer Science, Industrial & Production, Petroleum & Mining. Also, the third oldest to introduce Architecture, Food Engineering & Tea Technology, Genetic engineering & Biotechnology programs in the country. In total, SUST has 28 departments under 7 schools:\n\n\n\n\n6 affiliated medical colleges:\n\nSUST is the first and only university in Bangladesh to initiate the \"Second Major Program\" where a student can enroll in another department as the second major besides the first major. Currently, only three department CSE, EEE, Physics offer a second major degree. A student studying in this university has to sit for an aptitude test after his/her first year of study to be considered for the program as there are only a limited number of students can enroll in this program. Any students from the School of Applied Sciences & Technology, the School of Life Sciences, the School of Physical Sciences, the School of Agricultural & Mineral Sciences can sit for the test and they can so only after their first year of study in the university. A \"Second Major\" degree is awarded on completion of 24 to 36 credits of core courses from the respective department.\n\nIn addition to the four colleges are affiliated with the School of Medical Sciences and engineering, the university has the following affiliated colleges:\n\nThere is a school which is in under \"SUST\":\n\nThe research institutes of SUST are:\n\nSUST Department of Architecture is the 3rd oldest public architecture school in Bangladesh. The Center for Research, Testing, and Consultancy (CRTC Architecture) focuses on research areas such as building planning and design, interior design, landscape development, urban planning and urban renewal, conservation of historical sites and monuments, architecture of Bengal region, sustainable design, low cost housing etc. according to regional context. The center has been widely working with the traditional house forms, settlement pattern, urban growth and architectural development of the region.\n\nThe CRTC program, Department of Computer Science & Engineering focuses on research areas such as Optical Character Recognition, Parallel Processing, Cluster Computer, CodeWitz, Asia Link Project, Cellular Phone & Computer Interfacing, Bangla Computerization, Natural Language Processing etc. The software house offers professional working environment to the students.\n\nCivil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) department established the center for research, testing and consultancy (CRTC) to provide research, testing and consultancy services in 2003. CRTC designed water treatment plant to remove high concentration of iron (>11 mg/lit) in ground water of Sylhet region, such a plant has been successfully operating in Hotels in Sylhet city. CTRC already planned and designed the structural and drainage systems of the Madina Garden City near Sylhet International Airport including EIA and recently has been working for Gazi Burhan Uddin Model City near Sylhet upashahar. CRTC has been performing all kinds of testing in the field of water, wastewater, cement, concrete, rod beam, soil, air, noise, etc. since 2003.\n\nThe CRTC program, Department of Physics has numbers of research groups have research activities in areas of Theoretical and Experimental Nuclear Physics, Nonlinear Optics, Thin film Magnetism, Neutron Scattering, Neutron Activation Analysis, Neutron Radiography, Defects in Solids, Semiconductor Physics, Condensed Matter Physics, Gravitational Physics and Celestial Mechanics and Theoretical Physics. In 2015, CRTC Physics invented low cost technology to detect cancer.\n\nSUST has a urban campus area of 320 acres. Many visitors come to Sylhet visit the \"Shahid Minar\" (Martyr's Memorial) of the university. The memorial stands on the top of a small hill and is surrounded by trees. Different cultural organizations arrange programs on the premises on local and national occasions. The \"Kilo Road\" is an entrance to SUST campus known for green vista. The first ever Bangladesh Mathematical Olympiad was held in Shahjalal University of Science and Technology in 2004.\n\nSUST has an extensive core curriculum required of all undergraduates. SUST is the first university in Bangladesh to adopt American course credit systems for all departments. The syllabus are always updated frequently to maintain the global standard of education.\n\nSUST has a common Central Library with a collection of 180,000 volumes and 300 current periodical subscriptions for all academic departments. The library includes electronic copies of books, which can be accessed from any academic department through electronic local area networking(LAN). Per year around 2000 volumes are added in this library. The library building of SUST is known for its triangular shape. It has also a free internet browsing facility and rental library program. Additionally, there is also a departmental library in each academic department and hall library in each residential halls. The library has an Online Public Access Catalog (OPAC).\n\nSUST also welcomes foreign students. There is a significant number of international students, especially from Nepal. There are also some students in its affiliated medical college from India controlled Kashmir . Every year SUST receives applications from abroad. Most international students come from Nepal, India, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sri Lanka, Maldives, Bhutan, Japan, Afghanistan, Thailand, Malaysia, Palestine, China, Finland, and Myanmar.\n\nCurrently, there are 5 halls of residence. A significant number of students reside privately near the university area of Sylhet metro.\n\nThere are also well-decorated houses for the faculty members of SUST.\nUniversity authorities also run some private halls of residence outside the main campus especially for female students to guarantee housing for female students.\nThese Halls are:\n\nThe students of this university participate in sports for recreation and the finest athletes regularly compete in inter-university games like football, handball, volleyball, basketball etc. SUST has some varsity teams. There is a Cricket ground, a Football ground, a Basketball ground and well-equipped gymnasium adjacent to the university student health center. SUST is the only university to have \"Professional Cricket League\" and \"Professional Football League\". Students organize both inter-department and inter-university tournaments every year. Girls and teachers also participate in several games.\n\nSUST has a university school of secondary level inside the campus for the children of staffs. The school also receives general students.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860195", "title": "Ossett Town A.F.C.", "text": "Ossett Town A.F.C.\n\nOssett Town Association Football Club was an English football club based in Ossett in West Yorkshire.\n\nOssett Town AFC were formed in 1936 when, during a public meeting, the Mayor of the Borough of Ossett charged John Carter, a former Yorkshire League Referee, with bringing Ossett the highest possible standard of Football.\n\nIt has been a steady rise for the Club, who in 2003/04 won promotion to the NPL Premier Division where we competed for seven season before suffering one of only a handful of relegation's in our history at the end of the 2010–11 season, and the first since 1980.\n\nThe club started out in the Leeds League, which was renamed The West Yorkshire League in 1939, before switching to the Heavy Woollen League. So called due to the heavyweight cloth manufactured in the area during the Second World War.\n\nAfter the War, in 1945, Ossett Town joined the Yorkshire League. In 48/49 we recorded our record victory in the Extra Preliminary Round of the FA Cup, beating David Brown Athletic 11–0 away from home and in 49/50 won the West Riding County Senior Cup, the first honour for the club, and finished the season in a club high third place, scoring 120 goals in the process.\n\nDuring this period, and through into the 1950s the Yorkshire League contained the 'A' teams of Leeds United, Huddersfield Town as well as both Sheffield sides, Doncaster Rovers and Barnsley, at this time often topped the 1000 mark.\n\nWith these sides came players of the calibre of John Charles, Denis Law, Ray Wilson, Peter Swan, Tommy Taylor and Jack Charlton.\n\nDerrick Blackburn was sold to Swansea Town in 1957 for £1,350 and with this new found wealth the club bought the Ingfield site where the club still play to this day. Previously we had played on a pitch behind the Fern House Working Men's Club on Wakefield Road as well as a pitch on Back Lance after the Army had commandeered Fern House during WWII.\n\nThe Club moved to the new Ingfield ground in 1959, just after being relegated from Division One and celebrated the first season at Ingfield with a 3rd-place finish and promotion straight back to the First Division of the Yorkshire League as well as a first West Riding County Cup success but suffered a second relegation in 60/61.\n\nFollowing a restructure of the Yorkshire League we found ourselves in the third Division in 1970, by which time long serving player Frank Lloyd, who would dedicate 50 years of his life to Ossett Town, became manager. He signed two former Newcastle United and Huddersfield Town strikers Len White (who scored 153 goals for Newcastle) and Jim Kerray. They're not the only former Newcastle players to pull on the Red of Ossett Town as in the early 00s John Beresford spent a brief period at the club.\n\nDuring this period Graham Firth joined the playing staff as a teenager and would go on to become the clubs first Commercial Manager as well as groundsman, barman and long serving chairman too! Frank Lloyd relinquished the managerial role and became Club Secretary\n\nThrough the 70s we climbed from the third division to the first division before returning to the second Division in 1980, a division we finished runners up in during the final season of the Yorkshire League.\n\nFollowing the merger with the Midlands League the North East Counties League (NCEL) was formed, a competition we are founder members of. 1982 also saw Town collect our final County Cup win thanks to a 2–0 victory over Bradley Rangers at Huddersfield Town's Leeds Road.\n\nGraham Firth began his 28-year stint as chairman in the mid 1980s, 1987 is a notable year in the club's history as outside investment in the club saw floodlights erected for the first time, new dressing rooms built, the clubhouse extended and the pitch was re-laid at considerable cost.\n\nMicky Bullock was appointed as manager and the club hosted Manchester United in a pre-season friendly for who Lee Sharpe made his debut. A club record attendance of 2,600 was also set.\n\nLocal businessman Peter Wilkinson joined the committee and took the role of Football chairman, he took the lead with what happened on the field while Graham Firth ran the off field side of the club. Peter's son, Andrew, helped bring the club into the electronic world as he set up and ran the club's first website with great success.\n\nThe Club won the NCEL second division title that season before a second promotion saw the club start the 1990–91 season in the NCEL Premier Division. The 1989–90 season was the last time the club won a trophy, lifting the NCEL League Cup thanks to a shock victory over FA Vase finalist Bridlington Town, who were managed by future Town boss John Reed.\n\nWe had nine consecutive seasons in the Premier Division as the club slowly prepared for the next step up in the pyramid which was achieved at the end of the 1998–99 season when promotion to the Northern Premier League (NPL) was gained thanks to a second-place finish. Ossett Albion actually came first that season, but due to ground grading issues, something that was to affect Ossett Town a few years later, promotion was denied and Town took the opportunity handed to them.\n\nSadly John Carter, one of the founders of the club did not see the club reach the NPL, passing away in 1994 age 88 having performed every off field role at the club including chairman, Secretary and manager.\n\nGary Brook was player manager at this time, and following promotion guided the club to two impressive eight place finishes in the NPL First Division, a mention in The Sun as their team of the week thanks to a 7–1 away win at Whitley Bay, and also a run to the second round of the FA Trophy when 1100 people came to Ingfield to see former League side Doncaster Rovers sneak away with a 1–0 victory.\n\nOssett Town's third season in the NPL, 2001–02, saw Town win their opening four games scoring 12 times, this was a great season for the club with Brook and his strike partner Scott Jackson in great form and the likes of former football league players Chris Stabb, Craig Boardman and Matthew Smithard in the side as well as local talent like Alan Barker, Mark Lambert and Paul Ryan.\n\nHowever the season ended in heartbreak despite finishing second, an automatic promotion place, as ground improvements were delayed twelve hours due to inclement weather and promotion denied.\n\nGary Brook remained at the club but a number of players moved on, the Reds ending the following season in lowly 20th place, but comfortably ten points above the relegation places.\n\nThe 2003–04 season saw a league re-structure with the introduction of the conference North and South, meaning the club were promoted to the NPL Premier Division. Scott Cooper replaced Brook but was soon replaced by Steve Richards.\n\nIt was Richards who took Town to the 4th qualifying round of the FA Cup in 05/06, our best run to date beating Stocksbridge Park Steels, Consett and Matlock Town to set up a home tie with Leamington Spa, with the winners earning a place in the FA Cup First Round.\n\nIn front of 900 people it was Leamington Spa who progressed to earn a trip to Colchester United where the League side progressed thanks to a 9–0 win. Despite the Cup run the league form deserted Town. Richards was replaced by Steve Kittrick.\n\nThe Reds ended the season in 11th place and topped that in 06/07 with a tenth-place finish, our highest league position in the Football Pyramid.\n\nThings took a downward turn the following year, despite a positive start to the season relegation was only avoided on goal difference as Kittrick left the club for Guiseley and a number of players followed him. Simon Collins took the helm and despite being favourites for relegation ended the season in 12th.\n\nThis year was hugely overshadowed by the death, age 81, of Frank Lloyd, in honour of his 50 years at the club the Directors room was renamed the Frank Lloyd Hospitality Suite in his memory.\n\nThere were more managerial changes as Collins left the club to be replaced by Mick Couzens and Paul Lines. The duo clashed and Couzens left the club. Lines remained in control until the appointment of former Wolves player Peter Daniels. He left before the end of the 2009–10 season and Lines took over again. Unsurprisingly with so much upheaval we finished fourth bottom.\n\nPhil Sharpe oversaw the 2010–11 season, assisted by two former Town players, Paul Sykes and Mark Wilson, but with money tight the club were relegated from the Premier Division.\n\nSharpe retained the manager's role for the return to the NPL First Division North and was assisted by the experienced Eric Gilchrist. The latter ending the season in charge after Sharpe stood down.\n\n2012–13 started with the appointment of an eleventh manager in ten seasons as Craig Elliott joined the club from NCEL side Glasshoughton Welfare, there was a large turnover of players in Elliott's 18 months at the club, 12/13 ended with a 12th-place finish, a run to the First round of the FA Trophy and were a missed penalty away from taking FC Halifax Town to extra time in the Semi Final of the West Riding County Cup.\n\nThe Club started the following season more positive than any other in recent seasons, then at the club AGM Graham Firth stood down as chairman after 28 years in the role, taking up the position of Honorary President. The members of the club unanimously voted the club's Junior chairman, James Rogers, as Firth's replacement.\n\nUnder Elliott the side went down to an unfortunate FA Cup defeat at Conference North side Colwyn Bay and performed well in the League, going on a run of only three defeats in 23 games. The good form brought many scouts to Ingfield, captain Ryan Qualter was signed by Bradford Park Avenue, and others were sought after.\n\nElliott decided he could not take the club any further and resigned his position of manager just 24 hours before a key game, taking up a position at a club in the NCEL First Division. The committee appointed Captain Steven Jeff as caretaker manager and he oversaw two amazing games for the club under the stress of players wanting to follow the former manager.\n\nUnder Jeff the side took four points, but it could so easily have been six but for two penalties conceded in injury time in a 3–3 draw with New Mills.\n\nThe experienced John Reed was appointed as manager, assisted by Clive Freeman as the club ended the season in eighth place, impressive given the changes to the squad that were forced with only three months of the season remaining.\n\nReed brought in a lot of young, hungry players that summer, Brad Dixon signed from Leeds United, Nathan Curtis and Callum Hepworth moved from Bradford City. Despite some excellent performances the lack of experience often cost us. It was hoped the experience gained would leave the club in good stead for the following season.\n\nTuesday 2 June 2015 saw the untimely death of former chairman Graham Firth following a short illness. He dedicated his life to Ossett Town AFC, taking on the mantle of John Carter to bring the highest level of football to the area; that is something that can be said he did.\n\nThe side continued to struggle in the First Division North and in September Reed parted company with the club by mutual consent, his replacement, Graham Nicholas from NCEL side Garforth Town could not halt the slide, winning just a solitary point from his eleven games. The clubs committee acted and he was relieved of his position as the club looked to be heading to the NCEL for the first time in almost 20 years.\n\nThe committee, led by Rogers, took the bold step of appointing untried Grant Black in his first managerial role. With him Black brought Steve Ridley who would combine playing duties with that of Assistant Manager and Mick Norbury, who began his playing career with the club in 1987, came in as coach.\n\nDanny Frost signed from Ossett Albion and former Doncaster Rovers striker Alex Peterson joined him upfront. Both players scored on their debuts as Town recorded their first win in five months, a victory that started an excellent run, Black led Town to a higher league position than the previous season!\n\nBlack strengthened the side considerably over the summer and last season saw Ossett Town challenge at the top of the league all season, finishing an impressive 4th place and earning a play-off place. No one expected this from the club, Black creating a team spirit not known at Ingfield for a long time.\n\nTown shocked Scarborough Athletic on their own ground in the semi-final with a 3–1 victory for The Reds, that set up a final with Farsley Celtic, who had looked odds on for automatic promotion until we ourselves beat them 2–0.\n\nThe final proved to be a step too far, despite taking the lead in the 87th minute the home side drew level during seven minutes of time added on, that late goal gave Farsley Celtic the momentum going into Extra Time and they took advantage to win the game.\n\nIn 2018, it was announced that Ossett Town and Ossett Albion would merge to form Ossett United.\n\nOssett Town played at Ingfield on Prospect Road in Ossett. The site was bought in 1957 after the sale of Derrick Blackburn to Swansea Town. The first season at Ingfield saw Ossett Town win promotion from the Yorkshire League Division Two.\n\nThe ground has been steadily improved over the years with the construction of a new stand at the Prospect Road end which was eventually seated, new changing rooms as well as additional terracing and covered areas.\n\nThe Club House has been expanded on two occasions, the main room as renovated in 2014 and the old member's room is being modernised in 2017.\n\nDuring the 1980s the club were in discussion with the West Riding FA for Ingfield to be the new headquarters. However talks fell through and the County eventually developed their own ground in Woodlesford.\n\nThere was also talk of Dewsbury RLFC moving to Ingfield when their previous ground was sold, they, however, moved to a purpose build site in Shaw Cross.\nIngfield has played host to many cup finals and representative games, including the NCEL cup finals 1991/93/94, many West Riding County Cup finals, Wakefield Sunday League finals, Garforth Junior League finals and Heavy Woollen FA finals.\n\nIn 1995 a match between the British Army and the All England Fire Service was held at Ingfield and in 1999 the Women's FA Cup Semi-final between Croydon and Leeds United.\nIngfield has also been used for many Charity events, most recently in May 2017 £17,000 was raised by Darren Powell for Macmillan Cancer Research and the Bradley Lowery Fund, a packed house saw a game contested by many well-known faces from soaps and reality TV.\n\nThe current capacity is 1,950 with the record attendance of 2,600 being set in 1988 during a friendly with Manchester United.\n\nIngfield has been subject to a number of offers to buy the ground for development, these offers have been considered in the past and a potential new site sought out. However the sale did not go through as the members voted against it in 2006.\n\nAnother offer was made and Ossett Town considered ground sharing with Dewsbury Rams RLFC but again members voted against the plan.\n\nWith the value of land decreasing in recent years the club has made a conscious decision to improve the facilities at the club to enhance the fan experience when visiting.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860198", "title": "Phragmoplast", "text": "Phragmoplast\n\nThe \"phragmoplast\" is a plant cell specific structure that forms during late cytokinesis. It serves as a scaffold for cell plate assembly and subsequent formation of a new cell wall separating the two daughter cells. The phragmoplast can only be observed in Phragmoplastophyta, a clade that includes the Coleochaetophyceae, Zygnematophyceae, Mesotaeniaceae, and Embryophyta (land plants). Some algae use another type of microtubule array, a phycoplast, during cytokinesis.\n\nThe phragmoplast is a complex assembly of microtubules (MTs), microfilaments (MFs), and endoplasmic reticulum (ER) elements, that assemble in two opposing sets perpendicular to the plane of the future cell plate during anaphase and telophase. It is initially barrel-shaped and forms from the mitotic spindle between the two daughter nuclei while nuclear envelopes reassemble around them. The cell plate initially forms as a disc between the two halves of the phragmoplast structure. While new cell plate material is added to the edges of the growing plate, the phragmoplast microtubules disappear in the center and regenerate at the edges of the growing cell plate. The two structures grow outwards until they reach the outer wall of the dividing cell. If a phragmosome was present in the cell, the phragmoplast and cell plate will grow through the space occupied by the phragmosome. They will reach the parent cell wall exactly at the position formerly occupied by the preprophase band.\n\nThe microtubules and actin filaments within the phragmoplast serve to guide vesicles with cell wall material to the growing cell plate. Actin filaments are also possibly involved in guiding the phragmoplast to the site of the former preprophase band location at the parent cell wall. While the cell plate is growing, segments of smooth endoplasmic reticulum are trapped within it, later forming the plasmodesmata connecting the two daughter cells.\n\nThe phragmoplast can be differentiated topographically into two areas, the midline that includes the central plane where some of the plus-ends of both anti-parallel sets of microtubules (MTs) interdigitate (as in the midbody matrix), and the distal regions at both sides of the midline.\n\nAfter anaphase, the phragmoplast emerges from the remnant spindle MTs in between the daughter nuclei. MT plus ends overlap the equator of phragmoplast at the site where the cell plate will form. The formation of the cell plate depends on localized secretory vesicle fusion to deliver membrane and cell-wall components. Excess membrane lipid and cell-wall components are recycled by clathrin/dynamin-dependent retrograde membrane traffic. Once the initial cell plate forms at its center, the phragmoplast begins to expand outward to reach the cell edges. Actin filaments also localize to phragmoplast and accumulate greatly at late telophase. Evidence suggests that actin filaments serve phragmoplast expansion more than initial organization, given that disorganization of actin filaments via drug treatments lead to the delay of cell-plate expansion.\n\nMany microtubule-associated proteins (MAPs) have been localized to the phragmoplast, including both constitutively expressed ones (such as MOR1, katanin, CLASP, SPR2, and γ-tubulin complex proteins) and those expressed specifically during M-phase, such as EB1c, TANGLED1 and augmin complex proteins. The functions of these proteins in the phragmoplast are presumably similar to their functions elsewhere in the cell. Most research into phragmoplast MAPs have been focused on the midline because it is, first, where most of the membrane fusion takes place and, second, where the two sets of anti-parallel MTs are held together. The discovery of an important variety of molecules that localize to the phragmoplast midline is shedding light on the complex processes operating in this phragmoplast region.\n\nTwo proteins that have critical functions for antiparallel MT bundling at the phragmoplast midline are MAP65-3 and kinesin-5. The kinesin-7 family proteins, HINKEL/AtNACK1 and AtNACK2/TES, recruit a mitogen-activated protein kinase (MAPK) cascade to the midline and induce MAP65 phosphorylation. Phosphorylated MAP65-1 also accumulates at the midline and reduces MT-bundling activities for cell-plate expansion. The essential mechanism of MAPK cascade for phragmoplast expansion is suppressed by cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) activity before telophase.\n\nCertain phragmoplast midline-accumulating MAPs are essential proteins for cytokinesis. The kinesin-12 members, PAKRP1 and PAKRP1L, accumulate at the midline and double loss-of-function mutants have defective cytokinesis during male gametogenesis. PAKRP2 accumulates at midline and also in puncta throughout the phragmoplast, which implies that PAKRP2 participates in Golgi-derived vesicle transport. Moss homologs of PAKRP2, KINID1a, and KINID1b localize to the phragmoplast midline and are essential for phragmoplast organization. RUNKEL, which is a HEAT repeat-containing MAP, also accumulates at the midline and cytokinesis is aberrant in lines with the loss-of-function mutations in this protein. Another midline-localized protein, “two-in-on” (TIO), is a putative kinase and is also required for cytokinesis as shown by defects in a mutant. TIO interacts with PAKRP1, PAKRP1L (kinesin-12), and NACK2/TES (kinesin-7) according to the yeast two hybrid assays. Finally, TPLATE, an adaptin-like protein, accumulates at the cell plate and is essential for cytokinesis\n"}
{"id": "1860204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860204", "title": "Centre-right politics", "text": "Centre-right politics\n\nCentre-right politics or center-right politics (American English), also referred to as moderate-right politics, are politics that lean to the right of the left–right political spectrum, but are closer to the centre than other right-wing politics. From the 1780s to the 1880s, there was a shift in the Western world of social class structure and the economy, moving away from the nobility and mercantilism, as well as moving toward the bourgeoisie and capitalism. This general economic shift toward capitalism affected centre-right movements such as the British Conservative Party, that responded by becoming supportive of capitalism.\n\nThe International Democrat Union is an alliance of centre-right to right-wing political parties, including the British Conservative Party, the Conservative Party of Canada, the U.S. Republican Party, the Liberal Party of Australia, the New Zealand National Party and Christian democratic parties, which claims to be committed to human rights as well as economic development.\n\nHistorical examples of centre-right schools of thought include One Nation Conservatism in the United Kingdom, Red Tories in Canada, and Rockefeller Republicans in the United States. New Democrats also embraced several aspects of centre-right policy, including balanced budgets, free trade, and welfare reform. These ideological factions contrast with far right policies and right-wing populism. They also tend to be more supportive of social liberalism and green conservatism than right-wing variants. \n\nAccording to a 2019 study, center-right parties had approximately 27% of the vote share in 21 Western democracies in 2018. This was a decline from 37% in 1960.\n\nThe prominent inspiration for the centre-right (especially in Britain) was the traditionalist conservatism of Edmund Burke. Burke's traditionalist conservatism was more moderate than the continental conservatism developed by Joseph De Maistre in France, that upon experiencing the French Revolution completely denounced the status quo that existed immediately prior to the revolution (unlike Burke) and de Maistre sought a reactionary counter-revolution that would dismantle all modern society and return it to a strictly religious-based society. While Burke condemned the French Revolution, he had supported the American Revolution that he viewed as being a conservative revolution. Burke claimed that the Americans revolted for the same reason as the English had during the Glorious Revolution, in both cases a monarch had overstepped the boundaries of his duties. Burke claimed that the American Revolution was justified because King George III had overstepped his customary rights by imposing taxes on the American colonists without their consent. Burke opposed the French Revolution because he opposed its anti-traditionalism and its use of abstract ideas, such as the Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen and its universal egalitarianism that Burke rebuked by claiming that it effectively endorsed \"hairdressers\" being able to be politicians.\n\nIn Britain, the traditionalist conservative movement was represented in the British Conservative Party. Conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom Benjamin Disraeli sought to address social problems affecting the working class due to lack of assistance from the laissez-faire economy and formed his one nation conservatism that claimed that lack of assistance for the lower classes had divided British society into two nations – the rich and the poor as the result of unrestrained private enterprise, he claimed that he sought to break down. Disraeli said that he supported a united British nation while presenting the other parties representing the upper-class or the lower-class. Disraeli was hostile to free trade and preferred aristocratic paternalism as well as promoting imperialism. However, with the revival in Britain of the socialist movement with the rise of the Labour Party and the demise of the Liberal Party, the Conservative Party shifted to become a supporter of capitalism and an opponent of socialism, while advocacy of capitalism was promoted within the principles of traditionalist conservatism.\n\nAnother centre-right movement that arose in France in response to the French Revolution was the beginning of the Christian democracy movement, where moderate conservative Catholics accepted the democratic elements of the French Revolution. The first Christian democratic party was founded in Italy in 1919 by Luigi Sturzo, but it was suppressed by the Italian Fascist regime and was forced into exile in France. In France, Sturzo founded an international movement that supported the creation of a European common market and European integration to prevent war, amongst those who attended the group included future German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer, Alcide de Gasperi and Robert Schuman.\n\nIn Europe after World War II, centre-right Christian democratic parties arose as powerful political movements while the Catholic traditionalist movements in Europe diminished in strength. Christian democratic movements became major movements in Austria, the Benelux countries, Germany and Italy.\n\nNeoliberalism arose as an economic theory by Milton Friedman that condemned government interventionism in the economy that it associated with socialism and collectivism. Neoliberals rejected Keynesian economics that they claimed advocate too much emphasis on relieving unemployment in response to their observance of the Great Depression, identifying the real problem as being with inflation and advocate the policy of monetarism to deal with inflation.\n\nNeoliberal economics was endorsed by Conservative British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher who adapted it as part of a free-market conservatism closer to the developments in American conservatism, while traditionalist conservatism became less influential within the British Conservative Party. However, the British Conservative Party still has a large traditional conservative base, particularly the conservative Cornerstone Group. Thatcher publicly supported centre-right politics and supported its spread in Eastern Europe after the end of the Marxist-Leninist regimes in the late 1980s and early 1990s. After the collapse of communism in Eastern Europe, a variety of centre-right political parties have emerged there, including many that support neoliberalism.\n\nIn the United States, President Ronald Reagan (1981–1989) adopted many policies stemming from Milton Friedman's economic theories, including principles from the Chicago school of economics and monetarism. While social conservatives and the rise of the Christian Right contributed greatly to forming the Reagan Coalition, the President also had the support of right-wing economic neoliberals. Using Friedman's neoliberal theories, the Reagan administration cut the marginal income tax from 70% to 28% and reduced civilian unemployment from 10.8% to 5.3% of the workforce.\n"}
{"id": "1860205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860205", "title": "Grand-Métis, Quebec", "text": "Grand-Métis, Quebec\n\nGrand-Métis is a municipality in the La Mitis Regional County Municipality within the Bas-Saint-Laurent region of Quebec, Canada. It is situated where the Mitis River meets the Saint Lawrence River, and was developed from 1818 by the pioneering John MacNider.\n\nThe names \"Métis\" and \"Mitis\" are said to come from a Mi'kmaq word meaning \"meeting place\" or another referring to willow or poplar trees.\n\nThe historic Reford Gardens (\"Jardins de Métis\") are located nearby. These gardens, now maintained by Les Amis des Jardins de Métis, are the result of Elsie Reford's extraordinary passion for horticulture. An International Garden Festival is held here each summer. The garden's symbol, the Himalayan Blue Poppy (\"Meconopsis betonicifolia\"), can be found growing there in summer. The gardens were designated a National Historic Site of Canada in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860208", "title": "Jahangirnagar University", "text": "Jahangirnagar University\n\nJahangirnagar University ( \"Jahangirnôgôr Bishwôbidyalôy\", University Acronym: জাবি or JU) is a public university in Bangladesh, based in Savar Upazila, Dhaka. It is one of the top and only fully residential University in Bangladesh.\n\nThe university was established in 1970 by the Jahangirnagar Muslim University Ordinance of the government of Pakistan. Its first vice-chancellor, Mafizuddin Ahmed (PhD in chemistry, Penn State) took up office on 24 September 1970. The first group of students, a total of 150, were enrolled in four departments: Economics, Geography, Mathematics, and Statistics. Its formal inauguration was delayed until 12 January 1971, when the university was launched by Rear Admiral S. M. Ahsan, the chancellor.\n\nIt operated as a project until 1973, when the 'Jahangirnagar Muslim University Act' was amended as the 'Jahangirnagar University Act'.\n\nIn 2014, the university had 16,781 students, 755 teachers, and 1,430 other employees.It holds 3rd position in public University ranking several times.\n\nJahangirnagar University was formally launched on 12 January 1971 under the Jahangirnagar Muslim University Ordinance, 1970 and this day is observed as \"University Day\". Initially, it was named \"Jahangirnagar Muslim University\", and the plan was to operate the university like Aligarh Muslim University. But after the independence of Bangladesh, its name changed to \"Jahangirnagar University\" under the \"Jahangirnagar University Act' 1973\".\n\nACT NO. XXXIV OF 1973, an act to repeal the Jahangirnagar Muslim University Ordinance, 1970 and to provide for reconstitution and reorganisation of the Jahangirnagar Muslim University.\n\nThe university stands on the west side of the Asian Highway, popularly known as the Dhaka-Aricha Road, and is 32 kilometres away from the capital. Spread over an area of 697.56 acres (2.8 km²), the campus surrounded by the Bangladesh Public Administration Training Centre (BPATC) on the south, and the Savar Cantonment on the northeast, on the north of which is the National Monument (Jatiyo Smriti Soudho) and a large dairy farm on the east. The topography of the land with its gentle rise and plains is pleasing to the eyes. The water features sprawled around the campus make an excellent habitat for the winter birds that flock in every year in the thousands and consequently, it is a site frequented by many bird watchers. On 19 January 2017, the university arranged a bird fair in its Zahir Rayhan auditorium. The shahid Minar of JU is the tallest Shahid Minar in Bangladesh of 71 feet in height and made of ceramic bricks on a basement of 52 feet circumferences. The height signifies the war of independence fought in 1971 and the circumference refers to the language movement of 1952. It is designed by architect Robiul Hossain.\n\nThe university is an autonomous body managed by an executive council known as 'the syndicate'. Its statutes need ratification by the Senate of the university, which meets at least once a year to do the same. The Senate passes the annual budget of the university, reviews its academic matters, and elects a panel of three nominees for the position of its vice-chancellor once every four years. the selection and appointment are made by the president of Bangladesh, who is the chancellor of the university. The chancellor also appoints the pro-vice-chancellor and the treasurer of the university.\n\nThe first vice chancellor, Mafizuddin Ahmed, was appointed in 1970.\n\nThere are 34 departments under six faculties:\n\nFaculty of Mathematical and Physical Science\n\nFaculty of Biological Science\nFaculty of Social Science\n\nFaculty of Arts and Humanities\n\nFaculty of Business Studies\n\nFaculty of Law\n\nThere are four institutes for specialised research and training:\n\nWazed Miah Science Research Center was established on 30 May 2009. Its director is Dr. Md. Khabir Uddin. Since then, it has been operating its activities temporarily in the 2nd floor of Zahir Raihan Auditorium, Jahangirnagar University. A six storied building is under construction and is expected to be completed in a few months time. The research centre has fully air-conditioned laboratories having sophisticated modern instrumental facilities. Its foremost purpose is to enhance research amenities of science faculties.\n\nWMSRC has received a grant of Tk 450.00 lakh under Higher Education Quality Enhancement Project (HEQEP), Academic Innovation Fund (AIF) Window-3, administered by the University Grants Commission of Bangladesh. The title of the subproject is “Procurement of a Nuclear Magnetic Resonance (NMR) Spectrometer for Wazed Miah Science Research Center: Research Capacity Enhancement for Faculty and Postgraduate Students in Physical and Biological Sciences”, Complete Proposal No. JU 2347. The 400Mz NMR spectrometer has already been procured and is expected to be commissioned in May 2015.\n\nJahangirnagar University is culturally vibrant university with number of cultural and skill development organisations run by the students and teachers, including:\n\n\nNews And Media Society of Jahangirnagar University:\n\n\nWith sixteen residential halls (and more under construction), Jahangirnagar University is mandated to provide residential accommodation to every student with separate halls for the female students. Each hall has its own administration system headed by a provost and is equipped with facilities such as playgrounds, rooms for indoor games, dining halls etc.\n\n\n\nEstablished in 1985, the JU library is equipped with a huge collection of books. Located behind a monument of \"Sangshaptak\", the library is conveniently placed between the main academic buildings and the dormitories. The entire area has Wi-Fi coverage. There are more than 110,000 books, 14,000 hardbound journals, and 22,000 online journals in the library. The library can accommodate over 170 students at a time. There is a cyber centre on the premises. Airy with ample glass openings, the library is an elegant piece of architecture.\n\nObtaining and cancelling a library membership involves a fair number of steps. The library administration plans to extend the library buildings and make the whole system computerised, to make it easier to lend books. The library's design used to be more spacious than it currently is. But the authority did not complete its entire structure. This results in students facing problems when using the library, especially since the university is residential.\n\nJahangirnagar University has its own medical centre for students, teachers and other staff members. The centre provides 24-hour service and is supervised by the chief medical officers with a staff of qualified doctors. Despite bearing all expenses related to treatment for students, it only provides health-related advice to staff members (including teachers).\n\nJahangirnagar University maintains the medical centre established in mid-1972. The centre used to be located in Al Beruni. It was moved to its present location (beside the Fazilatunnesa hall and behind the transformation office) later on. Presently, 30 medicine companies supply their products. A new medical centre building is being built following a long student movement.\n\nThe teachers-student centre has the prime role in improving the relationship between the teachers and the students of the campus. It is a cultural hub for the university. Cultural groups usually perform drama and cultural programmes at Muktomoncho. Shaptam Chayamancha is a great attraction for students.\n\nThe \"Zahir Raihan Auditorium\", located in the TSC complex, is named after Zahir Raihan, a famous Bangladeshi novelist, writer and filmmaker. There is also a seminar hall for seminars, meetings and cultural programmes. The auditorium has 1500 seats, while the seminar hall can accommodate 250 persons. It is an auditorium fully equipped for drama, cultural activities, international conferences, and other similar events.\n\nThe university has a gymnasium, a well-equipped swimming pool, an amphitheatre, and a central cafeteria. Adequate bus services between the campus and Dhaka city are provided to the students, teachers, and other employees of the university.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860220", "title": "Rainer Bonhof", "text": "Rainer Bonhof\n\nRainer Bonhof (born 29 March 1952 in Emmerich am Rhein, North Rhine-Westphalia) is a former German footballer, who played as a defensive midfielder or wing-back, but who was known for his occasional bursts upfield and his fierce shot. He was a key player for the 1974 West Germany side that won the World Cup (defeating the Netherlands 2–1 in the final). Bonhof was one of the stars for his club side, Borussia Mönchengladbach and won numerous domestic league and cup titles.\n\nBonhof, a midfielder, was part of the highly successful Borussia Mönchengladbach side of the 1970s, winning numerous Bundesliga, German Cup, and UEFA Cup titles. He was widely recognized for having one of the game's hardest free-kicks as well as long and precise throw-ins. He scored 14 goals in European cup competitions and amassed 57 goals in the West German top-flight. Bonhof was awarded the ARD Goal of the Month on three occasions, twice for free-kicks and once for a 30-metre strike.\n\nHe won his first of 53 caps in 1972. Bonhof became (at that time) Germany's youngest World Champion on 7 July 1974 following his team's 2–1 win over the Netherlands in Munich's Olympiastadion at the 1974 FIFA World Cup. His penetrating run into the opposition penalty area and pass to Gerd Muller led to the winning goal in that game. Two matches earlier Bonhof scored the goal that put West Germany up 2–1 against Sweden, a match the Germans eventually won 4–2, which clinched their place in the semi-finals. Bonhof was a fixture in the West German national team from the World Cup onward. He was one of the best players in the 1976 European Championship, assisting on four of the six West German goals in the semi-final and final (West Germany lost to Czechoslovakia on penalties in the final).\n\nBonhof played in every match of the 1978 FIFA World Cup when West Germany was eliminated in the second round following a 2–3 defeat at the hands of their historic rivals, Austria. He continued to play an important role in the national team following his transfer to Valencia. His move and that of Uli Stielike prompted the DFB to remove their ban on selecting foreign based players for the national team. He played a role in qualifying for the 1980 European Championships and was selected for the squad, but injuries kept him from making an appearance during the West German victory. His last appearance for the national team came in a 1–4 defeat at the hands of Brazil, and in spite of a strong Bundesliga campaign for 1. FC Köln in 1981–82 he was not selected to return to the national team.\n\nFrom 1980 to 2012 Bonhof was the only player to win the European Championships twice, although he did not play a single game in either the 1972 or 1980 finals. He now shares the record with 12 players from the Spain national team which won back-to-back titles in 2008 and 2012. Bonhof remains the most decorated player in the history of the European Championships, with two gold medals and one silver.\n\nFormer Liverpool goalkeeper, Ray Clemence, in 1977 following a European Cup final between the Reds and Borussia Mönchengladbach, admitted he feared Bonhof's shots. The fear was proved justified, as during the spring of 1978 Clemence was beaten twice by Bonhof from nearly identical locations, at the club and international level. A Bonhof shot had beat Clemence in the 1977 final too, but that strike hit the post.\n\nBonhof's playing career was abruptly ended by an ankle injury in 1983.\n\nBonhof went on to coach. He received his formal license in 1988, and has coached several teams. Bonhof was coach of Borussia Moenchengladbach in the late 1990s, but the team was relegated from the Bundesliga. He was appointed manager of the Scotland under-21 team in 2002, joining the Scotland national team setup some months after countryman Berti Vogts had been appointed Scotland manager. Bonhof was the first full-time manager of the Scotland under-21 team. The team enjoyed initial success under Bonhof, winning an away qualifier against Germany and progressing to the qualifying playoffs for the 2004 European Championship. Scotland lost in the playoffs on aggregate to Croatia. Bonhof continued as Scotland under-21 manager after Vogts resigned as national team manager in November 2004, but resigned in November 2005 after the team went on a run of 14 games without a victory. Bonhof had helped Darren Fletcher and James McFadden progress to the full national team.\n\nOn 1 September 2006, Bonhof signed a contract with recent FA Premier League winners Chelsea to become their scout for the scopes of Germany and Austria. The contract was a rolling deal, allowing either Chelsea and Bonhof to break it up any time. The deal between Chelsea F.C. and Bonhof ended because of the club's high debts. Bonhof left London on 31 October 2008.\n\nOn 11 February 2009, he was named as the new vice president of Borussia Mönchengladbach.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860229", "title": "Adam Goren", "text": "Adam Goren\n\nAdam Goren is an American musician best known as the artist Atom and His Package.\n\nGoren was born in The Bronx, New York City, but grew up in Oreland, Pennsylvania with his friend Brian Sokel, and inspiration for many of his songs. He played in several local bands as a youth. While Goren was still in school, a friend introduced him to music sequencers, and he began writing music with one in his spare time. In 1991, Goren joined the punk band Fracture, and he remained with them until 1995. Later he started performing shows as Atom and His Package, consisting of himself, a B.C. Rich guitar, and his QY700 music sequencer.\n\nIn 1997, he released his first album, named \"The First CD\", on Bloodlink Records. He released several more albums and EPs and has performed on several compilations and self-released EPs while touring internationally.\n\nIn 2017, Adam Goren performed as Atom and his Package on the Chris Gethard show.\n\nIn April 2003 Goren was diagnosed with type 1 diabetes. This led to his decision to stop touring as Atom and His Package. Goren performed his final show under that name on August 29, 2003, in Philadelphia. After that show, he released his last album, \"Hair: Debatable\". On November 1, 2008, Goren performed as Atom and His Package at The Fest 7 in Gainesville, Florida, and was scheduled to return for Fest 16. Goren currently plays with the band Armalite.\n\nThe songs of Atom and His Package generally consist of electronic punk music put together with a sequencer. A few songs are purely instrumental. The lyrics of Goren's songs are usually humorous and most often centered on observations and off-key singing; a more punk influenced style eventually evolved.\n\nPublished by Bloodlink Records\n\nPublished by The Mountain Cooperative\n\nPublished by Vital Music Mailorder\n\nPublished by Wabana\n\nPublished by No Idea Records\n\nFeatures Har Mar Superstar\n\nPublished by Sub City\nPublished by Hopeless Records\n\nPublished by File 13\n\nPublished by Hopeless Records\n\nPublished by Hopeless Records\n\nA limited edition tribute album to The Mountain Goats; 500 were published.\n\nAdam Goren continues to work with Armalite, although he maintains a website under the name of Atom.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860236", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860236", "title": "Taira no Shigemori", "text": "Taira no Shigemori\n\nIn 1179, he ordained as a Buddhist monk and received the Dharma name Jōren (浄蓮).\n"}
{"id": "1860238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860238", "title": "Canadian federal election results in Newfoundland and Labrador", "text": "Canadian federal election results in Newfoundland and Labrador\n\nCanadian federal elections have provided the following results in Newfoundland and Labrador.\n\nNewfoundland and Labrador has been a Liberal heartland since it joined Canada in 1949, with only the city of St. John's electing Progressive Conservatives on a relatively consistent basis in the past, though that support shifted to the NDP and Liberal parties in 2006 and to the NDP in the 2008 elections. Even in the 1984 Mulroney landslide, more rural and remote seats went Liberal than PC. The Conservatives picked up one seat in the 2006 election, but the Liberals still hold a majority of the seats. Party preference here has a lot to do with religion, where Catholics tend to vote Conservative and Protestants Liberal (contrary to the rest of the country). In 2008, the Anything But Conservative movement took hold here and the Conservatives lost all their seats to the Liberals and NDP. In the 2011 election, Newfoundland and Labrador was the only province to have the Liberals win in terms of popular vote. They however did lose 2 seats, 1 to the Tories and one to the NDP. In the 2015 election, Newfoundland and Labrador's Liberal slant was taken to a new level, with Justin Trudeau's Liberals capturing every seat in the province (as well as all other Atlantic provinces), most by landslide majorities. In Bonavista—Burin—Trinity, they received 81.78% of the vote – the highest share obtained by any party in any riding in 2015.\n\nThe Liberals won four seats and the Conservatives three. The open Avalon seat changed hands from the Liberals to the Tories. The seat had been held by Natural Resources Minister John Efford, who had retired. Otherwise, there was little change from the previous election.\nOne of the biggest questions of the 2004 election was whether the new Conservative Party of Canada could match the old federal PC Party's level of support in Atlantic Canada. With Newfoundland and Labrador's provincial PC government unpopular over mandating an end to the previous year's public service strike, any province-wide success for 2004 was seen as unlikely. The Conservatives lost one of their three seats (previously gained in a byelection) and held their rump in St. John's. Des McGrath was seen as the NDP's best chance of electing a candidate in the province in several decades, but he still fell nearly 4000 votes short of winning Random—Burin—St. George's.\n"}
{"id": "1860241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860241", "title": "List of United States Army Corps of Engineers Chiefs of Engineers", "text": "List of United States Army Corps of Engineers Chiefs of Engineers\n\nThe Chief of Engineers is a principal United States Army staff officer at The Pentagon. The Chief advises the Army on engineering matters, and serves as the Army's topographer and proponent for real estate and other related engineering programs. The Chief of Engineers is the senior service engineer for the Department of Defense, responsible for integrating all aspects of combat, general and geospatial engineering across the Joint Force.\n\nThe Chief of Engineers also commands the United States Army Corps of Engineers. As commander of the US Army Corps of Engineers, the Chief of Engineers leads a major Army command that is the world's largest public engineering, design and construction management agency. This office defines policy and guidance, and it plans direction for the organizations within the Corps. The Chief of Engineers currently holds the rank of lieutenant general but in the past has been ranked as low as major. Civilian oversight of the Chief of Engineers is provided by the Assistant Secretary of the Army (Civil Works).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860244", "title": "Treaty of Alinagar", "text": "Treaty of Alinagar\n\nThe Treaty of Alinagar was signed on 9 February 1757 between Robert Clive of the British East India Company and the Nawab of Bengal, Mirza Muhammad Siraj Ud Daula. Based on the terms of the accord, the Nawab would recognize all the provisions of Mughal Emperor Farrukh Siyar's \"farman\" of 1717. Moreover, all British goods that passed through Bengal would be exempt from duties. In other tenets of the agreement, the British would not be hindered from fortifying Calcutta, as well as mint coins in Calcutta. The signing of the treaty was one of the events leading up to the famous Battle of Plassey.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860248", "title": "The Savages (Doctor Who)", "text": "The Savages (Doctor Who)\n\nThe Savages is the completely missing eighth serial of the third season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 28 May to 18 June 1966. This serial marks the final appearance of Peter Purves as companion Steven Taylor. Although audio recordings, still photographs, and 8mm clips of the story exist, no episodes of this serial are known to have survived.\n\nThe TARDIS materialises on a distant planet in the far future. The First Doctor, Steven and Dodo find the planet inhabited by both an advanced, idyllic civilisation (the Elders), and bands of roaming savages. The Elders welcome the Doctor, greeting him as \"The Traveller from Beyond Time\" and revealing they have admired his exploits from afar and predicted that he would soon be arriving here. Their leader Jano showers the Doctor and his companions with compliments and gifts, reinforcing the idyllic nature of the society of the Elders. However, the Doctor becomes suspicious of the Elders' seemingly perfect civilisation, but it is Dodo who finds the secret. The soldiers Exorse and Edal are sent outside the Elder city and use advanced weapons to capture the savages, entrapping them and returning them to the city. The Elders are only able to maintain the energy needed to run their civilisation by draining the life force of the helpless savages. The Doctor, appalled, tries to stop the Elders and persuade them of the wrong they are doing by building a civilisation on such immoral grounds.\n\nJano's response is to have the Doctor himself subjected to the energy transfer process. The Doctor is put into the transfer device and his life force is channelled into the Elder Jano, who desires his intelligence. Yet the plan backfires when the Doctor's personality takes over Jano, imbuing him with the Doctor's mannerisms, outlook and morality. The two identities cause Jano a personality crisis.\nDodo and Steven have meanwhile ventured outside the city and made contact with the savage leaders Chal and Tor, who are respectively pleased and antagonised by their presence. The savages are the remnants of a once highly skilled and artistic race, but over the centuries the energy transfer process has stymied their creativity and ability. Chal hides the two fugitives in a deep cave system, pursued by the guard Exorse, whom Steven overpowers. They return to the city and find a weak but determined Doctor, and help him escape the city.\n\nThe time travellers now help the Savages fight back against the Elder guards. The Doctor realises that the Elders must be forced, not persuaded, to change their ways as their whole civilisation must change overnight. His mixed personality convinces Jano to help the Savages and he tries to convince the other Elders to treat the Savages as equals, while Exorse too has realised the error of his ways. Jano and Exorse begin the destruction of the technology underpinning the society and are soon joined in the destruction by the Doctor, Steven and Dodo. The end of the technology means the end of the oppression, and Jano and Chal begin to talk of how a new society can be built together. The Doctor surprises Steven by convincing him to remain behind as a mediator. When both sides agree to accept Steven's decision, he decides to stay. The Doctor and a heartbroken Dodo bid their friend goodbye, before they head back to the TARDIS.\n\nWorking titles for this story included \"The White Savages\". This was the first serial of the series to have an overall title divided into numbered parts or episodes. All stories up until and including \"The Gunfighters\" had individual episode titles for each episode.\n\nClare Jenkins later played Tanya Lernov in \"The Wheel in Space\" (1968) and \"The War Games\" (1969). Frederick Jaeger later played Sorenson in \"Planet of Evil\" (1975) and Professor Marius in \"The Invisible Enemy\" (1977). Ewen Solon appeared as Vishinsky in \"Planet of Evil\". Patrick Godfrey later played Major Cosworth in \"The Mind of Evil\" (1971). Robert Sidaway later played Captain Turner in \"The Invasion\" (1968). Kay Patrick previously appeared as Poppaea in \"The Romans\" (1965).\n\n Episode is missing\n\nIn the guidebook \"The Discontinuity Guide\", it was described as a serial that \"plays intelligent games with witless SF clichés. Whilst not aspiring to greatness it does create an effective atmosphere.\"\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Ian Stuart Black, was published by Target Books in March 1986.\n\nThe complete soundtrack recordings, as recorded off-air by fans and coupled with linking narration by Peter Purves, has been released on CD. All four episodes of this serial are missing from the BBC archive. A few brief off-air 8 mm film recordings made by fans represent the only extant clips (which include the departure of Steven) and were made available on the DVD box set release \"Lost in Time\". A reconstruction has been made with telesnaps, production stills and the complete soundtrack.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860250", "title": "Mark Collett", "text": "Mark Collett\n\nMark Adrian Collett (; born 3 October 1980) is a British far-right political activist. He is a neo-Nazi and was formerly chairman of the Young BNP, the youth division of the British National Party (BNP), and was director of publicity for the party before his BNP membership was suspended in early April 2010.\n\nFrom Rothley, Collett was educated at Loughborough Grammar School and the University of Leeds where he received a lower second-class honours degree in business economics.\n\nCollett featured in a Channel 4 documentary on the BNP - \"Young, Nazi and Proud\" - broadcast in 2002 which concentrated almost exclusively on Collett. He declared his admiration for Adolf Hitler and said that he considered AIDS a \"friendly disease because blacks, drug users and gays have it\", unaware he was being recorded. Collett made similar remarks while on Russell Brand's 2002 TV show \"\", in which he described homosexuals as \"AIDS Monkeys\", \"bum bandits\" and \"faggots\". Collett was sacked from his position in the party and expelled days after the Channel 4 documentary was broadcast, although party leaders continued to share speaking platforms with him. However he was allowed to rejoin a few days later with chairman Nick Griffin saying that he must change his views on the subject. Collett was the party's head of publicity and produced the party's monthly magazine \"Identity\".\n\nAs a result of a police investigation into another documentary, BBC One's \"The Secret Agent\", which in July 2004 broadcast secret footage of Collet making derogatory remarks about asylum seekers, whom he called \"cockroaches\", Collett, then aged 24, was bailed on race hate offences at Leeds magistrates' court on 7 April 2005 alongside party founder John Tyndall and party leader Nick Griffin. The trial ended on 2 February 2006 after a jury acquitted Collett of two charges of using words or behaviour intended to stir up racial hatred, and two alternative charges of using words likely to stir up racial hatred. The jury failed to reach a verdict in respect of a further four charges.\n\nThe Crown Prosecution Service subsequently announced that Collett and Griffin would face a retrial on the remaining charges of using words or behaviour intended to stir up racial hatred. This retrial began at Leeds Crown Court on 1 November 2006 and he and Griffin were found not guilty.\n\nIn October 2009, Collett and the BNP's record label executive Joseph Barber were interviewed on BBC Radio 1's \"Newsbeat\" bulletin, being introduced only as \"Mark and Joey, two young guys who are members of the BNP\". They said that the England international footballer Ashley Cole was not \"ethnically British\" due to having black heritage. An internal inquiry at the BBC criticised the interviewers for not identifying the pair by their full names and positions in the BNP, and for not sufficiently challenging their remarks about Cole.\n\nIn April, 2010 Collett was sacked from his job as BNP publicity chief and suspended from the party for being supportive of a leadership bid against Griffin, and was subsequently arrested by Humberside police, who questioned him over alleged threats to kill Griffin. Despite the reinstatement of Collett's party membership he did not stand for the party in the May 2010 general election. He had previously been selected as BNP candidate in Sheffield Brightside and Hillsborough, to challenge the then-Home Secretary David Blunkett.\n\nHumberside Police did not bring charges against Collett over the allegations of threats to kill, formally dismissing them later in 2010.\n\nDuring the 2016 EU referendum campaign, Collett was seen campaigning for Vote Leave and was featured in news articles by daily newspapers, including the \"Daily Mail\", alongside his neo-Nazi partner Eva Van Housen, who displayed her Nazi tattoos for the publication. BBC News later reported that Vote Leave demanded Collett and Van Housen to stop using their Brexit campaign materials.\n\nCollett is a white nationalist and has been described as a white supremacist with close ties to other white supremacists.\n\nCollett supports a ban on hardcore pornography. He supports legal but regulated prostitution.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860252", "title": "TMPGEnc", "text": "TMPGEnc\n\nTMPGEnc or TSUNAMI MPEG Encoder is a video transcoder software application primarily for encoding video files to VCD and SVCD-compliant MPEG video formats and was developed by Hiroyuki Hori and Pegasys Inc. TMPGEnc can also refer to the family of software video encoders created after the success of the original TMPGEnc encoder. These include: TMPGEnc Plus, TMPGEnc Free Version, TMPGenc Video Mastering Works, TMPGEnc Authoring Works, TMPGEnc MovieStyle and TMPGEnc MPEG Editor. TMPGEnc products run on Microsoft Windows.\n\nThe free trial version of TMPGEnc Video Mastering works has a 14-day time limit. The TMPGEnc Free Version has 30-day time limit for MPEG-2 encoding, MPEG-1 encoding is without limit, but it can be used only for non-commercial, personal or demonstration purposes.\n\nThe first beta versions of the TMPGEnc encoder were freely available in 2000 and 2001 and were known as Tsunami MPEG Encoder. The first \"stable\" version was TMPGEnc 2.00, released on 2001-11-01. In December 2001, sales of \"TMPGEnc Plus\" started in Japan. In January 2002, the \"TMPGEnc Plus - English version\" was released. In August 2002, TMPGEnc DVD Source Creator was released and bundled with Sony \"Vaio\" PC in Japan. In April 2003, \"TMPGEnc DVD Author - English version\" was released. In March 2005, Tsunami MPEG Video Encoder XPress was released. In August 2005, \"TSUNAMI\" and \"TMPGEnc\" were combined into one brand.\n\nTMPGEnc Plus/TMPGEnc Free Version was often rated as one of the best-quality MPEG-1/MPEG-2 encoders, alongside Canopus ProCoder and Cinema Craft Encoder. The popularity of TMPGEnc encoders has spawned various other products and \"TMPGEnc\" is now used as a general brand name for products such TMPGEnc Authoring Works (a consumer-grade Blu-ray Disc, DVD, and DivX authoring tool), TMPGEnc MovieStyle (a video converter primarily for portable and set-top devices), and TMPGEnc MPEG Editor (an MPEG editing program). TMPGEnc Plus is currently still sold by Pegasys Inc., alongside TMPGEnc Video Mastering Works, TMPGEnc Authoring Works, TMPGEnc MovieStyle, TMPGEnc MPEG Editor, TMPGEnc Instant Show Presenter, and TMPGEnc KARMA..Plus. The TMPGEnc Free Version was updated in 2008 for compatibility with Windows Vista (SP1 included).\n\nTMPGEnc Plus in first releases provided advanced MPEG-1 and MPEG-2 video encoding with various technical options, MPEG-1 Layer II and Layer I audio encoding, support for external audio encoders (such as toolame, l3enc, mp3enc, LAME), internal video filters (such as deinterlacing), support for various input formats (AVI, MPEG, WAV, sequence JPEG, TGA files, etc.) depending on installed DirectShow filters, VFAPI frameserver support, support for AVI, WAV, BMP, TGA output and other features. TMPGEnc encoders can read most video formats, as long as the appropriate DirectShow filters are installed in the system. TMPGEnc Plus and TMPGEnc Free Version include tool named \"MPEG Tools\", which is a simple multiplexer and demultiplexer for MPEG containers (MPEG program stream).\n\nTMPGEnc Video Mastering Works also provides HD MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 output support, Blu-ray Disc output support, AVCHD input support, DVD-Video and DVD-VR input support, MKV input and output support, FLV input, etc. It is the first TMPGEnc product to incorporate the x264 encoding engine for MPEG-4 AVC/H.264 output and is the first software product to commercially license the x264 encoder.\nNew to TMPGEnc Video Mastering Works 6 over previous versions is H.265/HEVC encoding support (4K and 8K), H.264/AVC 10-bit format (4:2:2 and 4:4:4) output support, and more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860254", "title": "Lakeboat", "text": "Lakeboat\n\nLakeboat is a semi-autobiographical play by David Mamet, written in 1970 and first produced in 1980 (revised version).\n\nAs he would later do with \"Glengarry Glen Ross\", Mamet drew upon experiences from a past vocation to create high drama. In this case, he turned to his days as a cook aboard a cargo ship to frame this tale of Dale Katzman, a college student from an Ivy League school \"near Boston\" who takes a summer job as a cook in the galley of the \"T. Harrison\", a lake freighter for a Chicago-based steel concern. Dale's predecessor, Guigliani, endured a particularly violent end while on \"terra firma\", the cause and nature of which is speculated by the other crew members. Dale, and the audience, gets to know each of them, including: Fireman, who reads voraciously when not \"watching the gauges\"; Fred, who imparts his unique, politically incorrect philosophy regarding women on the young man; and, especially, Joe Litko, a 23-year veteran of the seas, who sees much of himself in Dale. The dialogue is Mametspeak at its most raw, as secrets are shared, picayune matters are debated, and fantasies are laid out, vividly.\n\nThe play's world premiere was staged by the Milwaukee Repertory Theater on April 24, 1980; subsequent major productions were mounted by the Long Wharf Theatre and the Goodman Theatre in 1982. In 2000, Mamet penned the screenplay for a film adaptation, which featured his half-brother Tony Mamet in the lead role of Dale. The ensemble cast also included Robert Forster as Joe Litko, Denis Leary as Fireman, and Jack Wallace, a veteran of Mamet productions, as Fred. Joe Mantegna, well-versed in the world of Mamet, made his directorial debut with the feature.\n\nThe British Premiere of \"Lakeboat\" was at the Lyric Theatre, London in 1998, and was directed by Aaron Mullen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860264", "title": "Canadian federal election results in Prince Edward Island", "text": "Canadian federal election results in Prince Edward Island\n\nCanadian federal elections have provided the following results in Prince Edward Island.\n\nFrom 1988 to 2006, Prince Edward Island did not elect a non-Liberal MP. In 2008, the Conservatives finally broke through in the province, as Gail Shea was elected in Egmont. Lawrence MacAulay won by less than 300 votes in both 1997 and 2000, but won with a commanding majority in 2004. In 2011 PEI had an unusual result in which the Conservatives had the most votes province-wide, but won only one out of the four provincial seats. This was due to a comfortable margin of victory in Egmont, and closer losses in the other three ridings.\n\nThree Liberal incumbents were re-elected. This was the first victory for the Conservatives in Prince Edward Island since 1984.\nAll four Liberal incumbents were re-elected. This was the sixth consecutive sweep of Prince Edward Island for the federal Liberals.\n"}
{"id": "1860273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860273", "title": "Husking Bee", "text": "Husking Bee\n\nHusking Bee are a Japanese powerpop/punk band formed in 1994.\n\nAccording to Oricon, HUSKING BEE’s member were Isobe Masafumi (on Vocals), Kudo \"Tekkin\" Tetsuya(on Bass) and Hiramoto Leona (on Drums). They debuted in 1995 by \"NOT SUPERSTITIOUS III\". Hirabayashi Kazuya, today the lead singer and guitarist to the band Fine Lines, joined as a new member in 2000. Despite having many Japanese young fans, they dissolved without explaining the reasons behind their decision on 6 March 2005.\n\nThe band reunited in February 2012.\n\nTheir sound is similar to that of the American band Jimmy Eat World, due to sharing the same producer, Mark Trombino. The rhythm section thrives in this band, able to create atmosphere with its own frantic, punchy playfulness.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860299", "title": "Florida woods cockroach", "text": "Florida woods cockroach\n\nThe Florida woods cockroach or palmetto bug (\"Eurycotis floridana\") is a large cockroach species which typically grows to a length of . When alarmed, adults can eject an extremely foul-smelling directional spray up to 1 m, which inspired several of its other common names: Florida skunk roach, Florida stinkroach, skunk cockroach, skunk roach, stinking cockroach, and stinkroach. Two other naming variations include Florida cockroach and Florida woods roach.\n\nThe Florida woods cockroach looks remarkably similar to the female oriental cockroach (\"Blatta orientalis\"), and the two could be mistaken for each other by the casual observer.\n\nThe Florida woods cockroach is slower moving than many other cockroach species. It prefers damp locations with abundant moisture, and does well in warm, damp climates. It is found in its native habitats, such as Florida and the West Indies. The species wanders indoors at times, especially into damp locations, such as bathrooms; however, it prefers the outdoors and is not considered a major pest in the home. It is cold intolerant and requires a warm, subtropical or tropical climate. It can be found in sheltered outdoor locations, such as under leaf litter, in tree holes, and under lumber and boards, and other crevices, as well as in bushes and wooded areas. Often it can be seen on palmetto trees, which gave it one of its early popular names, the palmetto bug. It is not to be confused for the American cockroach (\"Periplaneta americana\"), another common Florida insect, that is sometimes also referred to as a palmetto bug.\n\nThe Florida wood cockroach is a dark to blackish brown, or a reddish brown after recent molting. Tegmina (fore wings) are very short, extending just past the mesonotum (the dorsal plate just behind the pronotum), and hind wings are absent.\n\nAdults typically range from . The winning specimen in a Florida cockroach size contest was a Florida wood cockroach which measured .\n\nThe species' dark brown ootheca (egg case) is long, contains 21-23 eggs, and has indentations that show where the eggs are located.\n\nMales can mate about 18 days after maturation, and females produce oothecae about every 8 days, beginning about 55 days after maturation. The oothecae are buried in soil or decaying logs, and hatch in 50 days at . Parthenogenesis (asexual reproduction) can occur, but the nymphal clones do not develop to adulthood.\n\nWhen alarmed, adults can emit an extremely foul-smelling glandular secretion through a sternal membrane, ejected up to . Nymphs do not have this ability, and the secretion is built up over roughly 60 days from its final molt into adulthood. Males that were artificially drained required 30 days to replenish the stored amount. The secretion is composed primarily of (E)-2-hexenal, (E)-2-hexenol, and (E)-2-hexenoic acid.\n\nThe secretion is used both to deter antagonizers and as an alarm pheromone to elicit escape responses in others of its species. It can irritate the eyes of humans, and can be toxic to the cockroach in a small container. In tests with two species of mice abundant in central Florida, the chemical defense was found effective at deterring predation by \"Peromyscus polionotus\", but at least some \"Peromyscus gossypinus\" mice were able to avoid chemical exposure by pushing the cockroach's abdomen downward and feeding from its head end.\n\nNatural habitats of the species include holes in dead trees, stumps, and woodpiles, cavities beneath bark, and sometimes leaf litter. It occasionally enters buildings.\nIt typically only becomes established in non habitable areas of buildings. Not uncommonly, palmetto bugs become established inside attics, where they commonly leave behind their distinctively large droppings along with occasional body parts from dead specimens.\n\nThe species is reported in the West Indies and in a limited southeastern region of United States, consisting of the state of Florida, and coastal regions of Alabama, Georgia, South Carolina, Mississippi, Louisiana, south and southeast Texas, and southeast North Carolina. It is considered adventive, but not established, in the Canadian provinces of Newfoundland and Labrador and Nova Scotia.\n\nThe wasp species \"Aprostocetus hagenowii\" is an egg parasite of several species of cockroaches, including \"E. floridana\". The small, parasitic wasp deposits its eggs into the ootheca of the cockroach, resulting in an average of 648 parasites per ootheca. The parasites eat the cockroach eggs and emerge from the ootheca as adults.\n\nAnother wasp species, \"Anastatus floridanus\", is also an ootheca parasite of \"E. floridana\", laying eggs in an ootheca carried by the female, or into a deposited ootheca as many as 36 days old. Several \"A. floridanus\" wasps may lay eggs in the same ootheca. As many as 306 adult wasps may develop from one cockroach ootheca.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860312", "title": "Yitzhak Mordechai", "text": "Yitzhak Mordechai\n\nYitzhak \"Itzik\" Mordechai (, born 22 November 1944) is an Israeli former general and politician. He served as a member of the Knesset between 1996 and 2001, and as Minister of Defense and Minister of Transport. He retired from political life after being indicted for sexual assaults during his military service and later periods.\n\nMordechai was born in Akre, Iraqi Kurdistan, and made aliyah to Israel in 1949. He holds a BA in history from Tel Aviv University and an MA in Political Science from the University of Haifa.\n\nIn 1962 he enlisted to the Combat Engineering Corps of the IDF and later joined the Paratroopers Brigade. In the 1973 Yom Kippur War, he was battalion commander in the Battle of the Chinese Farm in Sinai, and was decorated with the Medal of Courage. In 1984, in what became known as the Kav 300 affair, Mordechai, then a Brigadier General, was framed for the killing of two Palestinian bus hijackers. Mordechai was tried, and acquitted when the truth became known. He was promoted to the rank of Major-General in 1986, and became known as the \"General of the Three Commands\", after serving as commander of all three territorial commands (North, Center and South). The First Intifada broke out in December 1987, when Mordechai was commander of the Southern Command. As commander of the Northern Command he commanded over Operation Accountability in 1993. Mordechai retired from active service in 1995 after 33 years of service, when new Chief of General Staff Amnon Lipkin-Shahak did not appoint him as his deputy.\n\nIn 1995 Mordechai joined Likud and was on the party's list for the elections the following year. After Binyamin Netanyahu won the election for Prime Minister, he appointed Mordechai as Defense Minister, where he became Lipkin-Shahak's boss.\n\nIn 1999, a public rift occurred between Mordechai and Netanyahu because of political rivalry and difference of opinion regarding the negotiations with Palestinians. Netanyahu dismissed Mordechai shortly before Mordechai would have reportedly resigned. On 23 February 1999 Mordechai left Likud along with several other members to establish the new Israel in the Centre party. However, despite strong initial poll results, the party fared badly in the 1999 elections, winning only six seats. Nevertheless, the party joined Ehud Barak's new Labor-led government and Mordechai became Minister of Transport.\n\nMordechai resigned from his ministerial position in 2000 after being indicted for sexual misconduct during his military service. In March 2001 he was eventually convicted of harassing and sexually assaulting two women, receiving an 18-month suspended sentence. After his conviction, he resigned from the Knesset.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860313", "title": "The Smugglers", "text": "The Smugglers\n\nThe Smugglers is the completely missing first serial of the fourth season in the British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\", which was first broadcast in four weekly parts from 10 September to 1 October 1966. Although audio recordings, still photographs, and clips of the story exist, no episodes of this serial are known to have survived.\n\nThe First Doctor's new companions Ben and Polly arrive with him in the TARDIS on the coast of seventeenth century Cornwall. They meet a worried churchwarden named Joseph Longfoot, who lives in fear of \"Avery's boys\" and, in thanks for the Doctor's kindness in relocating a dislocated finger, imparts a cryptic message he calls \"Deadman's secret key\": \"Smallbeer, Ringwood, Gurney\". While the time travellers head off to the local inn, Longfoot has another visitor. This is Cherub, Longfoot's former shipmate under pirate Captain Avery on the Black Albatross. Cherub and his master, Samuel Pike, who captains the Albatross since Avery died, want to recover Avery's accursed gold. Pike is convinced that Longfoot has the treasure or knows where it is hidden. When the churchwarden does not co-operate, Cherub kills him – but not before revealing he saw the three travellers who visited Longfoot earlier.\n\nThe discovery of the churchwarden's body leads the locals to suspect the three strangers at the inn. The local Squire is called to intervene and adjudicate, and ends up charging Ben and Polly with the murder. Employing trickery to obtain their freedom, they split up. Ben hides at the church until Josiah Blake, a revenue man tracking the local smugglers, disturbs him.\n\nIn the meantime, Cherub and some pirates have kidnapped the Doctor and taken him to the Albatross. The Doctor attempts to bargain with Pike, and finds himself kept aboard ship while the captain goes ashore. Pike decides to try to make an alliance with the Squire as well to protect himself while he searches for Avery's treasure. The greedy Squire is the organiser of the local smuggling ring and offers to cut Pike and his pirates in. They are interrupted by Polly, who has come to implore the Squire to help her find the Doctor and is shocked to see him in the company of the kidnapping pirate Cherub.\n\nPike, Cherub and the Squire bind and gag Polly and take her to the church, meeting and capturing Ben on the way. They attempt to convince Blake that Ben and Polly are the true smugglers. Knowing the truth but lacking the manpower to arrest the pirates, Blake pretends to arrest Ben and Polly. Meanwhile, the Doctor has escaped and meets up with his friends in the churchyard. Blake works out a smuggling drop is due soon and heads off for more revenue men to break the smuggling ring.\n\nThe smuggling alliance has by now fallen apart: the Squire has realised he is dealing with a ruthless pirate who will not honour any bargains with him while Cherub has decided to locate Avery's gold for himself. The Squire too sets off to find the gold, as do the time travellers since the Doctor is convinced the rhyme of the churchwarden is the key. He works out the names Ringwood, Smallbeer, and Gurney pertain to graves in the crypt but before he can find the treasure, the other seekers arrive. Cherub wounds the Squire, and then forces the Doctor to confess the rhyme. Cherub concludes that Deadman too is a name of one of Avery's former pirates, but is slain by a vengeful Pike, who now threatens to pillage the entire village in his search for Avery's treasure. The Doctor bargains with Pike for the lives of the villagers if he shows him the treasure and, with this agreed, they find the gold at the intersection of the four graves.\n\nNo sooner does Pike have the treasure than Blake and an armed patrol of revenue men arrive. Aided by the injured Squire – who repents of his sins – Blake kills Pike, and the pirate force is routed. As the battle dies down, the Doctor and his companions slip away to the TARDIS, and the Doctor says superstition is a strange thing but it sometimes tells the truth.\n\n Episode is missing\n\nAll four episodes of this serial are considered missing. The soundtrack and telesnaps survive, along with bits of Australian censor footage.\n\nThis was the last story filmed in the third season's production block, although it was held over until the beginning of the fourth season. During filming, the production team realized that William Hartnell's health had deteriorated beyond the point where he could continue to work. Many months' discussion about replacing Hartnell finally came to a head, and Innes Lloyd decided not to renew Hartnell's contract. It is unclear if Hartnell was contractually obliged to appear in \"The Tenth Planet\" or if he agreed to do so after being informed of Lloyd's decision. This was the first story to feature major location shooting. All previous location shots had been conducted at locations around London, but substantial portions of this story were filmed in Cornwall.\n\nOn initial airing, this story posted the lowest audience figures, at an average of 4.48 million viewers per episode, since the show began. It would remain the least-watched story in \"Doctor Who\" history for twenty years, until \"The Trial of a Time Lord\": \"The Mysterious Planet\" aired in 1986 and posted an average of 4.35 million viewers per episode.\n\nIn 2002, \"Interzone\"s Paul Beardsley reviewed the CD release as \"an amiable but unremarkable purely historical yarn set in 17th century Cornwall\" but remarked \"[Anneke Wills]'s very good, and I hope she'll return to do \"The Underwater Menace\".\"\n\nIn a review for the Radio Times, Patrick Mulkern praised the \"excellent cast\", though noting that the character of Jamaica was \"a dodgy caricature that would be inconceivable in modern drama.\" Mulkern was also impressed by the authentic Cornwall locations, \"a terrific bonus that allows the production to breathe.\"\n\nA novelisation of this serial, written by Terrance Dicks, was published by Target Books in June 1988.\n\nThe soundtrack for the story exists due to fan-made recordings. These have been released on CD together with linking narration provided by cast member Anneke Wills. Several brief clips cut by Australian censors for violence were recovered in 1996 and were released on the \"Lost in Time\" DVD box set in 2004. Also included in the set is amateur on-location colour film footage made during production at Trethewey Farm, Trethewey, Cornwall.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860329", "title": "Ethical decision", "text": "Ethical decision\n\nAn ethical decision is one that engenders trust, and thus indicates responsibility, fairness and caring to an individual. To be ethical, one has to demonstrate respect, and responsibility. Ethical decision-making requires a review of different options, eliminating those with an unethical standpoint, and then choosing the best ethical alternative.\n\nThe words \"Ethics\" and \"Morals\" are frequently used interchangeably and relate to the \"wrong\" and \"right\" conduct. Ethics refer to behavior customary in a culture or society, whereas Morals refer to personal standards of right and wrong. Morals do not change as a person moves from one society to the next, while ethics could change with the addition and loss of community members. Business ethics is associated with the creation and application of moral standards in a business setting. \n\nEthical decisions come from a place of conscience. For many, conscience is simply an internal source of reward and punishment. But according to researcher Lawrence Kohlberg, conscience is only one of several ways in which ethical values are represented in the personality. Kohlberg believes there are higher levels of moral development and these are acquired in three stages.\n\nTraditions, such as Confucianism, animism, Hinduism, Buddhism, and Taoism, have had a similar impact on their cultures. However, they all tend to emphasize different aspects of decisions than does Western academic ethics, which is said to suffer badly from a \"God's Eye view\" problem. By contrast, these non-Western traditions have emphasized the following:\n\nTrust relationships are the foundations of all ethical decisions. One must learn what is good and ethical from some role model or moral example. Religion often raises certain stories about certain people to this level deliberately.\n\nSocial principles may apply even when one's decision is isolated to only themselves. For instance we can look at the individual as a collective of identities - a common example is ego and alter-ego. Also one might employ principles like Kant's categorical imperative.\n\nAll ethical and moral judgement attempts to make consistent descriptions of complex situations and difficult decisions. It is considered to be important because, to those who practice the ethical tradition in which the descriptions are applied, it answers the big question: \"How should we live?\"\n\nThe very questions presupposes that we can define \"how\" (method), \"should\" (ambition), \"we\" (a group seeking consensus), \"live\" (beings with bodies).\n\nWithout this context, ethics is generally just talk implying moral judgement \"- called normative ethics, and covered again in separate article.\"\n\nThe remainder of this article is about practical approaches to ethical decisions that are observed in ordinary people's daily lives and in politics in particular:\n\nAn ethical decision is often thought of as the one that reduces future conflict. In sociology and political science, practical and applied ethics itself is often defined as a process of de-escalating moral conflicts to the point of:\nAt this point the conflict is unlikely to recur.\n\nWithout this, we fall back to the simplistic view, which is \"I am right and you are wrong and you do what I say.\" (\"This is usually called moral absolutism\"). This kind of assertion, backed by force, is the basis of much authority and it leads to violence very often. So much so that it turns out not to be the simplest way to live among humans in the long run, even if it is accepted by small groups (say a whole family) in the short run. However we must also be careful of the opposite - absolute moral relativism, which simply dismisses the concept of ethics entirely by stating there is no such thing as certain rightness.\n\nA simple, practical view is that ethics balances \"right versus right\": if there's a dispute we care to hear, then each side must have some right on it. However, this presupposes some instinctive moral core of the individual that must recognize right and wrong, else we do not have two individuals asserting \"right\" and requiring ethical help: if either in fact secretly believes themselves \"wrong\" then they are engaging in tactics to reduce the chance of getting caught or alerting others to it, neither of which is studied by ethics.\n\nEthics can thus be viewed as a lever but one that rests on a moral fulcrum of pre-existing assumptions, like the bodies of the beings in conflict, placed there by circumstances, environments, situations, mostly out of their control – only the choice of resolution is under their own control. When the environment or context has some status in the decision, as in ecological ethics, there is said to be a situated ethics. This is not the same as situational ethics which is about single decisions unlikely to recur.\n\nVarious factors are in play when making decisions. In terms of ethics, the following are significant:\n\n\nCastes or groups in society may have their own moral syndromes that simplify the types of decisions they make, e.g. as professionals in a commercial or governmental field. Jane Jacobs claims there are two irreconcilable moral syndromes that arise from those contrasting views:\n\nPaul Adler defined markets, hierarchies, and communities as three different ways to resolve and make an ethical decision. While Jacobs denied that collusion or collaboration between the syndromes could be constructive, and called any confusion of the two a \"monstrous moral hybrid\", Adler thought that \"Communities\" could do this without corruption. By Jacobs' definition the community itself might be a source of corruption.\n\n\nGeorge Lakoff's theory of moral politics states that these arise from family role differences ultimately, with a moral code emphasizing the logos or \"rule\" of the father as being the source of the motivations of the political \"right\", and one emphasizing the more merciful moderns or mother-like view as being moral source for the \"left\".\n\n\nOne solution is castes: people are raised to make decisions in particular ways based on their family traditions which are drawn from professional traditions. Then people take on the profession for which they are best prepared. This addresses the problem raised above, that the simplest ways to make \"'ethical decision\"s tend to conflict. But of course then the choice of profession is not up to the person but the family or the society around them.\n\n\nWithout such a system, differences may evolve into some full system of community consensus or politics:\n\nPolitics, as Bernard Crick put it, is \"ethics carried out in public\". His list of political virtues is an attempt to frame politics as a form of ethics, and ethics as a form of conflict resolution.\n\nA political party for instance in democracy helps those who see ethical decisions the same way, form groups to promote those criteria for decisions that they see as most important.\n\n\nMost surviving societies recognize certain acts that are usually bad for the society, such as lying, stealing, murder of people, adultery, and impiety (to God or Nature which in early societies was often the same).\n\nEthical values\n\nThe 2019 study indicates that social work leaders’ authenticity positively influences their dispositions toward ethical decision-making.\n\n\nSociologists and anthropologists believe that there is a tendency in most societies to support:\n\nIt is actually not possible to use any of those words without moral judgements – possibly judgments inherited from the dictionary – this is studied in meta-ethics and in descriptive ethics also.\n\nSince all surviving societies must protect helpless people like elders, children, and pregnant women, it is likely that these concepts are defined more with reference to those helpless people than to others – that is, those with power have a duty to protect the helpless.\n\n\nOne nearly-universal moral principle is some form of the golden rule: \"Act towards other people as you would want others to act towards you.\" Another principle is that a person can only be blamed or praised if they could choose to act or refuse to act. Another is that there seems to be something good about helping living things in general, or compassion or empathy.\n\nIt is useful to distinguish \"good from bad\" in our actions just as we might distinguish \"good from evil\" morally in our thoughts. It's also useful to recognize that we use the word \"right\" to assert what we are due and to judge what is correct. To anything that's alive, it's \"right\" for it to live, that too is built into the body. If a creature is physically fit and capable of thriving in its environment, it takes a lot to overcome a preference to live:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860337", "title": "List of South African provinces by population", "text": "List of South African provinces by population\n\nSince the election of 27 April 1994, South Africa has been divided into nine provinces. They vary widely in population, from the mostly-urban Gauteng, which contains over 20% of the national population, to the mostly-desert Northern Cape, which contains less than 3%. The following table shows the provincial populations according to the 2011 National Census and the most recent mid-year population estimates by Statistics South Africa.\n\nSince the creation of the current provinces in 1994 there have been three censuses, in 1996, 2001 and 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860341", "title": "Albert (provincial electoral district)", "text": "Albert (provincial electoral district)\n\nAlbert is a provincial electoral district for the Legislative Assembly of New Brunswick, Canada. It was created in 1973 when New Brunswick moved to single member districts and the former multi-member riding of Albert was split into this riding and the new riding of Riverview.\n\nThe boundaries were expanded slightly in the 1994 redistribution, taking in a small part of Riverview and again in 2006 when it took in another small part of the town of Riverview. In the 2013 redistribution it added more of Riverview again, as well as the Village of Salisbury.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860347", "title": "Steppe Front", "text": "Steppe Front\n\nThe Steppe Front () was a \"front\" of the Red Army during the Second World War which existed from July to October 1943.\n\nOn 9 July 1943, Stavka designated a new Reserve Front in the Voronezh region, that had been effective since 30 April. It consisted of the command component of the 2nd Reserve Army (augmented by several officer and NCO courses), the 27th, 52nd, 53rd, 46th, 47th, 4th Guards Tank, 5th Air Army and eight mobile corps (Tank, Guards Tank, and Mechanised). Most of these armies had been reassigned from the Northwestern Front, North Caucasus Front, or the Reserve of the Supreme High Command (\"Stavka\" reserve, or the RVGK). On 13 April 1943 the Front was renamed the Steppe Military District, to be effective 15 April.\n\nThe Steppe Military District was redesignated the Steppe Front on July 9, 1943. It incorporated forces from the Soviet rear areas to the West of Kursk salient along the line Tula-Yelets-Stary Oskol-Rossosh (Тула-Елец-Старый Оскол-Россошь). It included units pulled out of the battles of Stalingrad and Leningrad and others.\n\nUnder the command of Colonel General Ivan Konev from July to October 1943, it took part in the Battle of Kursk.\n\nOn October 20, 1943, the Steppe Front was renamed the 2nd Ukrainian Front, and remained under command of Ivan Konev.. \n\n"}
{"id": "1860349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860349", "title": "Witch's ladder", "text": "Witch's ladder\n\nA witch's ladder (also known \"as rope and feathers\", witches' ladder, witches ladder, or witch ladder) is a practice, in folk magic or witchcraft, that is made from knotted cord or hair, that normally constitutes a spell. Charms are knotted or braided with specific magical intention into the cords. The number of knots and nature of charms varies with the intended effect (or \"spell\").\n\nThe first recorded witch ladder found was in an old house in Wellington, Somerset which was demolished in 1878. Six brooms, an old armchair and a ‘rope with feathers woven into it’ were found in the space that separated the roof from the upper room and was inaccessible from the interior of the house. The brooms had handles so decayed they snapped under pressure, but these had been replaced so they could be used. The chair and rope were stored in a ware- house. Due to the investigations of local antiquarians, (Abraham Colles & E.B. Tylor) the find was published in the \"Folk-Lore Journal\". This article detailed the responses to local enquiries, but was followed by a number of letters to the journal which expressed a range of opinions as to the function of the rope.\n\nWhen Charles Godfrey Leland received news of the Wellington find whilst in Italy, he investigated and found that the witches there used a similar form, called a \"witches garland\"; the item was made of cord, and contained black hen feathers. The malediction was uttered as each knot was tied in and the item was placed under the victim's bed, to cause the ill fortune (see Part 2, Chapter 5 of Roman Etruscan Remains for more details).\n\nLeland's version differs from that found in Somerset in that the feathers were knotted into the cord rather than braided, and the cord was to have hairs of the victim braided into it. The feathers were plucked from a live black hen one by one and inserted into the knots as they are made in the cord. Leland also claimed that intrinsic to the witch garland was the placing of an image of a hen or cock (made of cotton or similar) next to the garland, upon which a cross of black pins is made. The whole is then hidden in the mattress of the one you are bewitching. Leland says the curse is lifted by finding the hen & wreath (garland), and throwing the whole lot into running water; the bewitched is then taken into a church whilst a baptism is being carried out, where they must repeat a certain spell before bathing in holy water.\n\nReverend Sabine Baring-Gould included an extensive article on the witch's ladder in his novel \"Curgenven\" published in 1893. In his account the ladder was made of black wool, with white and brown thread, and at every two inches it was tied around cock's feathers. The maker would weave into it aches and pains and other ailments intended for the victim. The ladder was then thrown to the bottom of Dozmary Pond, located on Bodmin Moor. They believed that as the bubbles rose to the top of the pond, the curse was released.\n\nOne example of a modern witch's ladder is a string of 40 beads or a cord with 40 knots. Sometimes feathers, bones, and other trinkets are braided into the string as symbols for a desired spell effect. An earlier version of a witch's ladder consisted of a rope or cord of three, nine, or thirteen knots.\n\nThe witch's ladder can be created a section at a time or all at once. Either way, special chants are spoken during the creation process to empower the talisman to do its creator's bidding. According to an article, \"The Witches' Ladder\", an example of a witch's ladder chant and knot placement is as follows:\n\nAccording to the article, \"At the tying of the last knot, all the energy is directed into the cord and its knots, with a final visualization of the object of the work. The power has been raised and is now 'stored' in these knots in the cord.\" This is often referred to as cord magick, knot magick or string magic.\n\nOnce finished, the beads or knots of the witch's ladder enable a witch to concentrate on repetitive chants or incantation without having to keep count. This enables the witch to focus will and energy on the desired goal.\n\nThere are many uses. Whatever one's intention is can be made into a magickal spell into a witches ladder. It was believed that witches of old cast a death spell over a person by tying the knots and then hiding the cord, and the only way to undo the spell was to find the secreted cord and untie each knot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860350", "title": "Highbridge, Somerset", "text": "Highbridge, Somerset\n\nHighbridge is a small, former market town situated on the edge of the Somerset Levels near the mouth of the River Brue. It is in the County of Somerset, and is approximately north east of Taunton, the county town of Somerset. It is no longer a market town, the market site is now a housing estate. Highbridge is in the District of Sedgemoor, being situated approximately north of Bridgwater, the district's administrative centre. Highbridge closely neighbours Burnham-on-Sea, forming part of the combined parish of Burnham-on-Sea and Highbridge and shares a town council with the resort town. In the 2001 census the population was 5,986. In the 2011 census the population of the town was included in the ward of Highbridge and Burnham Marine, which totalled 7,555.\n\nThere is archaeological evidence of occupation around the Highbridge area at least as far back as the Roman period. A bridged crossing over the River Brue at this location has existed since the 14th century and it has always been an important crossing on the route from Bristol to the South West. The town that sprung up around this crossing takes its name from the bridge. An older name for the local manor was \"Huish\" a contraction of the phrase \"Huish jaxta altum pontem\" (next to a high bridge). There are historical references to a wharf at this site and to usage of the river as part of the drainage plan for the Somerset Levels by the Monks of Glastonbury.\n\nHighbridge grew in importance as a regional market and industrial town during the latter half of the 19th century and the early part of the 20th century. Important employers included the livestock and cheese market, Highbridge Wharf, Buncombe's Steamrollers, and the Somerset & Dorset Joint Railway rail works, which closed in 1930 with the loss of 400 jobs. Heavy industry and transport declined in Highbridge after the Second World War as the Wharf proved too small for the newer generation of ships, with the last cargo of timber arriving in 1948 and the wharf was closed to shipping the following year,\nand commercial freight moved away from the railways. Since the 1970s close proximity to the M5 motorway has driven a growth in light industry and in the town's commuter population.\n\nHighbridge was historically a hamlet and chapelry in the large ancient parish of Burnham. It briefly became a separate civil parish in 1894, but in 1896 the civil parish was abolished and divided between the new civil parishes of North Highbridge and Burnham Without. The town had by then expanded south of the River Brue into the parish of Huntspill, and in 1896 the new parish of South Highbridge was carved out of Huntspill parish. North Highbridge and South Highbridge together formed the Highbrige Urban District. The 1931 census listed a population of 2,585. In 1933 the Urban District was abolished and merged into Burnham-on-Sea Urban District. In the 1974 local government reforms, this became a civil parish within the new District of Sedgemoor. The civil parish is now known as Burnham-on-Sea and Highbridge, with a single town council.\n\nThe joining of the two towns remains a contentious issue. A 2001 independence referendum was unsuccessful, but there remains strong feeling among some sections of the community, as evidenced by a number of incidents of vandalism involving signs on the approach to the town.\n\nIn 2004 a community group, the Highbridge History Project, commemorated the 150th anniversary of opening of the town's station by publishing the results of their own five-year-long study into the town's history (Weston Mercury \"A Glimpse into the past\").\n\nHighbridge is within the Sedgemoor Non-metropolitan district which has traditionally been Conservative run since its creation in 1974.\n\nThere is one electoral ward named 'Highbridge and Burnham Marine'. The population taken at the 2011 census is identical to that shown above.\n\nLiberal Democrats fared well in Burnham and Highbridge areas until 1999, when the Conservatives re-took Sedgemoor, with the Liberal Democrats losing the seat of Highbridge to Labour. It has since returned Liberal Democrats with a substantial majority.\n\nNationally, Highbridge falls within the Wells county constituency which elects one Member of Parliament (MP) to the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom, by the first past the post voting system. Between 2010 and 2015, Tessa Munt of the Liberal Democrats was the elected MP for the constituency. She lost her seat in the 2015 General Election to the Conservative candidate James Heappey, who was elected with a 7585-vote majority\n\nIt is also within the South West England European Parliament constituency.\n\nHighbridge was originally the seaward terminus of the Glastonbury Canal and the Somerset Central Railway. The Canal was established first and was designed to improve drainage along the River Brue. It was also designed to create a trade link between Glastonbury and the sea. A new straight channel, with a clyce (the local name for a sluice), which runs from the present day tidal gates to the location of the current station, was cut in 1801 and the original course of the river was as the site for of Highbridge Wharf. The Canal opened in 1833 and while initially successful it later suffered from financial and engineering problems. Only the 1801 clyce remains of the Glastonbury Canal at Highbridge.\n\nIn 1844, the Bristol and Exeter Railway (a future component of the Great Western Railway) opened a station at Highbridge on what is now the Great Western Main Line. Ten years later the railway companies realised the potential of the route of the failing Glastonbury Canal and it was bought out by the Somerset Central Railway (a component of the Somerset and Dorset Railway).\nThis allowed them to run a railway line along the route of the old canal. Shortly afterwards local branch lines to Burnham-on-Sea and to the Wharf were added. These lines crossed the Great Western lines at grade, and crossed Church Street (the A38, and at that time the main road route to Devon and Cornwall) at a notorious level crossing which led to long tailbacks in the summer months.\nNo traces of the crossing or associated signal box remain. At its height Highbridge Station had five platforms and a carriage works. The decline of the British railway network hit the Highbridge Station hard and today there remain only two unstaffed platforms, following the closure of two branch lines in the 1960s. The official name of the station is now Highbridge and Burnham.\nThe old Highbridge Station, which was a Brunel original, was demolished in the 1980s. The Victorian former Station Master's house was also demolished. A housing estate now stands on much of the old railway lands.\n\nHighbridge town centre clusters around the crossroads formed by Church Street and Market Street. At their meeting point is a roundabout which marks the location of the town's original three-faced town clock. A modern concrete replacement clock, also with three faces and topped with the town's coat of arms stood in nearby Jubilee Gardens until its replacement with a more traditional four-faced clock in 2012. The town centre has faced a steady decline in recent years, with numerous small independent shops and major banks closing. NatWest, the last remaining bank in the town, finally closed its doors for the last time on 25 July 2014. The former wharf area is occupied by recently built new housing, which stretches alongside the river from the town centre to the railway.\n\nAlong with the rest of South West England, Highbridge has a temperate climate which is generally wetter and milder than the rest of the country. The annual mean temperature is approximately . Seasonal temperature variation is less extreme than most of the United Kingdom because of the adjacent sea temperatures. The summer months of July and August are the warmest with mean daily maxima of approximately . In winter mean minimum temperatures of or are common. In the summer the Azores high pressure affects the south-west of England, however convective cloud sometimes forms inland, reducing the number of hours of sunshine. Annual sunshine rates are slightly less than the regional average of 1,600 hours. In December 1998 there were 20 days without sun recorded at Yeovilton. Most the rainfall in the south-west is caused by Atlantic depressions or by convection. Most of the rainfall in autumn and winter is caused by the Atlantic depressions, which is when they are most active. In summer, a large proportion of the rainfall is caused by sun heating the ground leading to convection and to showers and thunderstorms. Average rainfall is around . About 8–15 days of snowfall is typical. November to March have the highest mean wind speeds, and June to August have the lightest winds. The predominant wind direction is from the south-west.\n\nRecently there has been a rapid expansion of flats and social housing in the town centre, and many new takeaway outlets which have led to concerns about antisocial behaviour and the long-term viability of remaining businesses. Following the closure of many small family shops and businesses and the development of some industrial estates (which take advantage of the proximity of the M5 motorway) much local employment is now in transport and light industry on the outskirts of the town - including food storage and distribution for Yeo Valley Organic and road hauliers R T Keedwell. Other established local employers on these out-of-town sites have closed in recent years, with the loss of furniture manufacture at Woodberry Brothers & Haines and food logistics at Brake Brothers. In 2017, plans were approved to construct an Aldi supermarket, a Travelodge budget hotel, with initial plans for a drive-through takeaway also being considered on the Isleport Industrial Estate.\n\nThe town had an independent livestock market on the same site from 1851 until 2007. It was previously run by J.H. Palmer and Sons and met weekly on Monday. The market closed briefly during the 2001 UK foot and mouth crisis, and in 2007 moved to a purpose built site at Huntworth near Bridgwater which also replaced the livestock market at Taunton.\nThe former market site is now earmarked for redevelopment; houses now built there) the adjoining Highbridge Hotel was damaged in a catastrophic fire on 22 April 2008.\nParts of the hotel are Georgian in origin and are Grade II listed (grade two listing now been removed and the hotel demolished). \nFollowing considerable local pressure to remove or redevelop the hotel site, a plan was approved in November 2013 to build housing on the former cattle market area, with the hotel being protected for future development.\n\nIn February 2010, American computing giant IBM announced that it would be creating dozens of jobs in a new service centre in Highbridge as part of the Into Somerset inward investment programme for Somerset.\n\nThe Community Hall (opened in 1994) stands on the site of the former Town Hall (built in 1885, demolished in 1984) and Railway Hotel, and incorporates a large function room and associated meeting rooms, a small volunteer-operated public library and offices for Homes in Sedgemoor, the local Housing Authority. However, since cuts by Sedgemoor District Council in 2007/08, these offices have not been open to the public.\n\nLike most British towns Highbridge has had its ample share of alehouses and inns. Many of these depended on trade from the wharf and livestock market and numerous public houses existed close to these facilities along Newtown Road. Now only The Globe remains in this area. The Cooper's Arms, once recognised by the Campaign for Real Ale (CAMRA) as one of the best pubs in the region has declined in popularity in recent times. Since the freehold was sold it has had various tenants, none of which have been successful. The town is also served by The Bristol Bridge Inn and a thriving social club. This decline in the number of public houses has also affected local skittles leagues who are facing a reduction in the number of venues in which this locally very popular pub game can be played.\n\nThe town is served by Churchfield Church School - a primary academy managed by the Diocese of Bath and Wells, and amalgamated from the former Beechfield Infant School and St. John's Church of England Junior Schools which shared the same site. The local coeducational comprehensive school is The King Alfred School, which sits in Highbridge near the border with Burnham-on-Sea, which it also serves. It was founded in 1957 and is now a specialist Sports College. The majority of students continuing study travel to Bridgwater College.\n\nHighbridge is served by St John's Church and Hope Baptist Church, both located in Church Street.\n\nMoney for the building of St John's was given by Mary Ann Ruscombe Poole who laid the foundation stone in 1856 and opened in 1859.\nThe South Aisle was included in the original plans but not completed until 1882 by Frederick Bligh Bond. Structural damage was identified during a survey in 1987.\n\nHighbridge was the birthplace of noted British spy Frank Foley, the \"British Schindler\", who saved thousands of Jews in World War II, who is honoured by a statue near the Community Hall in the town centre.\n\nEdward Higgins (General of the Salvation Army in the early 1930s) was born in Church Street, and lends his name to a development of elderly persons dwellings near the town centre.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860361", "title": "Reserve Front", "text": "Reserve Front\n\nThe Reserve Front was a major formation of the Red Army during the Second World War.\n\nThe Reserve Front describes either of two distinct organizations during the war. The first version was created on July 30, 1941 in a reorganization of the earlier Front of Reserve Armies. STAVKA Order No.003334, of 14 July, directed that the Front of Reserve Armies include:\n\n\nThis Front was encircled and destroyed at Vyazma. \n\nThe surviving forces transferred to the Western Front on October 10, 1941 under the command of Zhukov.\n\nThe second version of this Front was created on April 6, 1943. It incorporated the:\n\nIt was reorganized as the Steppe Military District on April 15, 1943 and eventually designated the Steppe Front.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860362", "title": "Witch bottle", "text": "Witch bottle\n\nWitch bottles began as countermagical devices used as protection against other witchcraft and evocation. They are described in historical sources in England and the United States. The first mention of a witch bottle appears in the 17th century England. \n\nOne of the earliest descriptions of a witch bottle in Suffolk, England, appears in 1681 in Joseph Glanvill’s \"Saducismus Triumphatus, or Evidence concerning Witches and Apparitions\":\n\nSince at least the early modern period it has been a common custom to hide objects such as written charms, dried cats, horse skulls, concealed shoes, and witch bottles in the structure of a building. Folk magic contends that witch bottles protect against evil spirits and magical attack, and counteract spells cast by witches; they are countermagical devices, the purpose of which is to draw in and trap harmful intentions directed at their owners.\n\nSome of the earliest documented witch bottles consist of salt glazed stoneware jugs known as Bartmann jugs, Bellarmines, or \"Greybeards.\" Bellarmines were named after a particularly fearsome Catholic Inquisitor, Robert Bellarmine, who persecuted Protestants and was instrumental in the burning of Giordano Bruno. Greybeards and Bellarmines were made of brown or gray stoneware glazed with salt and embossed with a bearded face.\n\nA witch or folk healer would prepare the witch's bottle. Historically, the witch's bottle contained the victim's (the person who believed they had a spell put on them, for example) urine, hair or nail clippings, or red thread from sprite traps. Later witch bottles were filled with rosemary, needles and pins, and red wine. Historically and currently, the bottle is then buried at the farthest corner of the property, beneath the house hearth, or placed in an inconspicuous spot in the house. It is believed that after being buried, the bottle captures evil which is impaled on the pins and needles, drowned by the wine, and sent away by the rosemary.\n\nSometimes sea water or earth are used instead. Other types of witch bottles may contain sand, stones, knotted threads, feathers, shells, herbs, flowers, salt, vinegar, oil, coins, or ashes. A similar magical device is the \"lemon and pins\" charm.\n\nAnother variation is within the disposal of the bottle. Some witch's bottles were thrown into a fire and when they exploded, the spell was broken or the witch supposedly killed.\n\nThe witch bottle was believed to be active as long as the bottle remained hidden and unbroken. People did go through a lot of trouble in hiding their witch bottles – those buried underneath fireplaces have been found only after the rest of the building has been torn down or otherwise disappeared. The origins of this tradition have been dated at least to the 16th century. In ancient times the bottles were made of stone and originally contained rusty nails, urine, thorns, hair, menstrual blood, and pieces of glass, wood, and bone.\n\nThis form of \"bottled spell\" dates back hundreds of years, and were prevalent in Elizabethan England – especially East Anglia, where superstitions and belief in witches were strong. The bottles were most often found buried under the fireplace, under the floor, and plastered inside walls. In 2016 a glass bottle found buried in the threshold of a man's house was featured in an episode of \"Antiques Roadshow\" filmed in Trelissick, Cornwall; glass specialist Andy McConnell tasted a small amount of the contents theorising it was possibly port or wine though he did note the rusty flavour and the presence of nails, a later episode in 2019 then revealed the contents had been analysed by Loughborough University that identified it actually contained \"urine, a tiny bit of alcohol, and one human hair\" alongside some brass pins dating from the late 1840s and an ostracod. It was theorised to be a witch bottle.\n\nTo date, eight possible witch bottles have been identified in the United States. Archaeologist Marshall Becker was the first to identify an American witch bottle in an archaeological context. Known as the Essington witch bottle, the artifact was recovered during excavations on Great Tinicum Island in Delaware County, Pennsylvania. A mid-19th to early 20th-century slave or tenant site in Dorchester County, Maryland yielded a buried witch bottle whose cork stopper was bristling with straight pins.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860367", "title": "Witch ball", "text": "Witch ball\n\nA witch ball is a hollow sphere of coloured glass traditionally used as a fishing float. Modern witch balls are decorative replicas. Some are made to look like Christmas tree baubles that contain a few thin fibers strung inside. Floating glass buoys became connected with witches during the witch hunts in England. In the late 17th century, suspected witches were tried by being tied up and thrown into water. If the water rejected them from a second baptism and they floated, then the suspects were confirmed as witches, under the rule of trial by water, and they were then hung by the neck until dead. In a like manner these heavy glass fishing floats, all tied up in a net, could not be made to sink. The water rejected them and they bobbed merrily upon its surface. Historically, witch balls were hung in cottage windows in 17th and 18th century England to ward off evil spirits, witches, evil spells, ill fortune and bad spirits. Just as hanging a witch was believed to remove evil influences from a village, hanging a tried and tested witch ball that had been floating in water, around a home, was believed to protect the home from similar ills. Usage has continued to a smaller extent in America up to the present day.\n\nThe Witches ball is still today used extensively throughout Sussex, England and continues to hold great superstition with regard to warding off evil spirits in the English counties of East Sussex and West Sussex. Examples of the Witches ball in use can be seen in the windows of houses throughout the counties anywhere from small rural villages to coastal towns and cities. Examples can also be seen in shop windows as well but all too often you will find that they are not for sale as they are so highly prized. Examples in Sussex often include glass fishing buoys and mirrored clear glass as well as red, blue and gold mirrored glass.\n\nThe witch ball originated among cultures where harmful magic and those who practiced it were feared. They are one of many folk practices involving objects for protecting the household. The word \"witch ball\" may be a corruption of \"watch ball\" because it was used to ward off, guard against, evil spirits. They may be hung in an eastern window, placed on top of a vase or suspended by a cord (as from the mantelpiece or rafters). They may also be placed on sticks in windows or hung in rooms where inhabitants wanted to ward off evil.\n\nSuperstitious European sailors valued the talismanic powers of the witch balls in protecting their homes. Witch balls appeared in America in the 19th century and larger, more opaque variations are often found in gardens under the name \"gazing ball\". This name derives from their being used for divination and scrying where a person gazes into them dreamily to try to see future events or to see the answers to questions. However, gazing balls contain no strands within their interior. Glass studios traditionally make a witch ball as the first object to be created in a new studio.\n\nThere are several variations relating to the purpose of witch balls. According to folk tales, witch balls would entice evil spirits with their bright colours; the strands inside the ball would then capture the spirit and prevent it from escaping. Another tradition holds that witch balls or spherical mirrors prevented a witch from being in a room, because witches supposedly did not have a reflection or could not bear seeing their own reflection. Yet another variation contends that witch balls were used to avert the evil eye, by attracting the gaze of the eye and preventing harm to the house and its inhabitants.\n\nIn the 17th century, witch balls and witch bottles were filled with holy water or salt. Balls containing salt were hung up in the chimney to keep the salt dry. Salt was a precious commodity, and breaking the ball or bottle was considered bad luck.\n\nWitch balls sometimes measure as large as seven inches (18 cm) in diameter. The witch ball is traditionally, but not always, green or blue in colour and made from glass (others, however, are made of wood, grass, or twigs instead of glass). Some are decorated in swirls and brilliant stripes of various colours. Witch balls normally have a hole in the top where a peg can be inserted; string is then attached to the peg so the ball can be hung in a chimney or over a window. Early witch balls often had a short neck sealed by a stopper. The gazing balls found in many of today's gardens are derived from the silvered witch balls that acted as convex mirrors, warding off evil by reflecting it away.\n\nIn the Ozark Mountains, another kind of witch ball is made from black hair that is rolled with beeswax into a hard round pellet about the size of a marble and is used in curses. In Ozark folklore, a witch that wants to kill someone will take this hair ball and throw it at the intended victim; it is said that when someone in the Ozarks is killed by a witch's curse, this witch ball is found near the body.\n\nIn the Appalachian Mountains of Kentucky, tradition holds that witch balls were made by rolling cow or horse hair into a small ball. A witch would draw a picture of the intended victim, then throw the ball at the part of the victim they wished to injure.\n\nIt is sometimes claimed that the modern Christmas ornament ball is descended from the witch ball. The ornament was allegedly originally placed on the tree to dispel a visitor’s envy at the presents left beneath the tree. However, as the modern Christmas bauble's origins are documented in Lauscha, Germany in 1847, the provenance of this claim is debatable.\n\nPatrick Leigh-Fermor mentions the daughters of a gasthof owner hanging witch-balls on the Christmas tree, Boppard, Germany, 1933.\nPresumably the glass spheres would reflect the candle light.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860368", "title": "Feedback vertex set", "text": "Feedback vertex set\n\nIn the mathematical discipline of graph theory, a feedback vertex set of a graph is a set of vertices whose removal leaves a graph without cycles. In other words, each feedback vertex set contains at least one vertex of any cycle in the graph.\nThe feedback vertex set problem is an NP-complete problem in computational complexity theory. It was among the first problems shown to be NP-complete. It has wide applications in operating systems, database systems, and VLSI chip design.\n\nThe decision problem is as follows:\n\nThe graph formula_7 that remains after removing formula_6 from formula_5 is an induced forest (resp. an induced directed acyclic graph in the case of directed graphs). Thus, finding a minimum feedback vertex set in a graph is equivalent to finding a maximum induced forest (resp. maximum induced directed acyclic graph in the case of directed graphs).\n\n showed that the feedback vertex set problem for directed graphs is NP-complete. The problem remains NP-complete on directed graphs with maximum in-degree and out-degree two, and on directed planar graphs with maximum in-degree and out-degree three. Karp's reduction also implies the NP-completeness of the feedback vertex set problem on undirected graphs, where the problem stays NP-hard on graphs of maximum degree four. The feedback vertex set problem can be solved in polynomial time on graphs of maximum degree at most three.\n\nNote that the problem of deleting as few \"edges\" as possible to make the graph cycle-free is equivalent to finding a spanning tree, which can be done in polynomial time. In contrast, the problem of deleting edges from a directed graph to make it acyclic, the feedback arc set problem, is NP-complete.\n\nThe corresponding NP optimization problem of finding the size of a minimum feedback vertex set can be solved in time \"O\"(1.7347), where \"n\" is the number of vertices in the graph. This algorithm actually computes a maximum induced forest, and when such a forest is obtained, its complement is a minimum feedback vertex set. The number of minimal feedback vertex sets in a graph is bounded by \"O\"(1.8638). The directed feedback vertex set problem can still be solved in time \"O*\"(1.9977), where \"n\" is the number of vertices in the given directed graph. The parameterized versions of the directed and undirected problems are both fixed-parameter tractable.\n\nIn undirected graphs of maximum degree three, the feedback vertex set problem can be solved in polynomial time, by transforming it into an instance of the matroid parity problem for linear matroids.\n\nThe undirected problem is APX-complete, which directly follows from the APX-completeness of the vertex cover problem, the existence of an approximation preserving L-reduction from the vertex cover problem to it and existing approximation algorithms. The best known approximation algorithm on undirected graphs is by a factor of two. Whether the directed version is polynomial time approximable within constant ratio and thereby APX-complete is an open question.\n\nAccording to the Erdős–Pósa theorem, the size of a minimum feedback vertex set is within a logarithmic factor of the maximum number of vertex-disjoint cycles in the given graph.\n\nIn operating systems, feedback vertex sets play a prominent role in the study of deadlock recovery. In the wait-for graph of an operating system, each directed cycle corresponds to a deadlock situation. In order to resolve all deadlocks, some blocked processes have to be aborted. A minimum feedback vertex set in this graph corresponds to a minimum number of processes that one needs to abort.\n\nFurthermore, the feedback vertex set problem has applications in VLSI chip design.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860370", "title": "Apostolic constitution", "text": "Apostolic constitution\n\nAn apostolic constitution () is the most solemn form of legislation issued by the Pope. The use of the term \"constitution\" comes from Latin , which referred to any important law issued by the Roman emperor, and is retained in church documents because of the inheritance that the canon law of the Roman Catholic Church received from Roman law.\n\nBy their nature, apostolic constitutions are addressed to the public. Generic constitutions use the title \"apostolic constitution\" and treat on solemn matters of the church, such as the promulgation of laws or definitive teachings. The forms dogmatic constitution and pastoral constitution are titles sometimes used to be more descriptive as to the document's purpose.\n\nApostolic constitutions are issued as papal bulls because of their solemn, public form. Among types of papal legislation, apostolic letters issued \"motu proprio\" are next in solemnity.\n\nGeneric constitutions contain the following introduction:\n\n16th century\n\n19th century\n20th century\n\n21st century\n\n"}
{"id": "1860373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860373", "title": "Daniel Balavoine", "text": "Daniel Balavoine\n\nDaniel Balavoine (5 February 1952 – 14 January 1986) was a French singer and songwriter. He was hugely popular in the French-speaking world, and inspired many singers in the 1980s, such as Jean-Jacques Goldman, Michel Berger, his closest friend, or the Japanese pop-rock group Crystal King; he was also a part of the original cast of the rock opera \"Starmania\" in 1978, which was written by Berger. He took part in French political life and is known for a 1980 televised verbal confrontation with then presidential candidate François Mitterrand.\n\nIn the French music-business, Balavoine earned his own place with his powerful voice, his wide range, and his lyrics, which were full of sadness and revolt. He was emphatic, and his songs for the most part talked about despair, pain, and death, although hope was present as a theme as well. He sold more than 20 million records during his career.\n\nBalavoine was born on 5 February 1952 in Alençon, France. He was the youngest in a family of six children. He had two sisters and three brothers. His father, Emile, was an urban engineer and worked for the Reconstruction Ministry. His mother was an antiques wholesaler. In 1959, his father relocated to Algeria, while Daniel moved to southern city of Pau and attended a boarding school, an experience he clearly didn't appreciate. When he was eleven, he heard \"She Loves You\" by The Beatles which sparked his taste in music. In 1968, while attending high school, he was one of the many youth who supported the nationwide strikes.\n\nHaving fully decided to make a living in music, he began to perform as a ballroom singer in Pau, covering Bob Dylan songs. In 1971, he moved to Paris but was disappointed and returned to Pau. Soon afterwards, he answered an audition in Paris to join a hard rock band, Présence, whose singer had just left. Another future singer, Laurent Voulzy, was his main competition for that position. Ultimately, Balavoine was chosen and went into the studio. The band soon released an album which wasn't a big success. Despite that, they toured all over France. In 1972, the band signed a contract with Warner Music Group but Balavoine quit the group.\n\nIn 1973, while he was working as a record dealer, The Vogue studios, which produced Présence, contacted him and offered to support him in a solo career. His first Vogue record \"Viens vite\" was released, but suffered poor sales. Balavoine then became a background vocalist alongside his brother, Guy. Soon afterwards, they starred in a pop musical \"La Révolution Française\".\n\nIn 1974, Patrick Juvet, one of the biggest performers in France at the time, offered him the opportunity to be the opening act on his next tour. Balavoine wrote a song for him, \"Couleurs d'Automne\", which appeared on Juvet's following album.\n\nWhile attending a show, Léo Missir, vice president of Barclay Records, was impressed by Balavoine's aura and signed him immediately to a 3-year deal which ended up lasting far longer. His first record, \"De vous à elle en passant par moi\", was released in 1975, but again resulted in disappointing sales.\n\nWhile recording the album, he met Catherine Ferry, who was chosen as the French candidate for the next Eurovision Song Contest, to take place in the Netherlands. Ferry came in second place with Balavoine and his brother on back-up vocals. This success led to Balavoine and Ferry developing a strong friendship. Balavoine would go on to write most of her songs following her Eurovision success.\n\nIn 1977, Balavoine released a second record, \"Les aventures de Simon et Gunther\" but again it sold poorly and Eddie Barclay began getting impatient.\n\nIn 1978, Michel Berger, who had just finished writing Starmania, was still looking for the singer to portray the \"Johnny Rockfort\" character. While watching TV, he was impressed by Balavoine, who was singing the title song from his latest successful album. He immediately hired Balavoine and a strong brotherly relationship began between the two singers.\n\nReleased a few months later, Starmania was a phenomenal success and most of its songs hit the charts. Balavoine performed three of them: \"Quand on arrive en ville\", \"Banlieue Nord\" and, most notably, \"S.O.S. d'un terrien en détresse\", which was written specifically for Balavoine's voice. \"SOS D'un terrien en detresse\" became a huge hit nationwide and around the world. In 1992, Peter Kingsbery, the lead singer of the American band Cock Robin, adapted the song in English for Tycoon; the song, named \"Only the Very Best,\" built on the same melody and similar arrangements, but with very different lyrics (by Tim Rice), was also a big hit in France.\n\nBalavoine's solo career was soon very successful, as well, with the release of his third album \"Le Chanteur\". The title song, which spoke vividly of the unstoppable rise and fall of an aspiring singer, was a huge commercial success, with one million units sold. The album itself sold 800,000 copies.\n\nAt the same time, Balavoine continued touring with Starmania, becoming one of its most notable faces. Between April and May 1979, the musical was performed at the Palais des congrès in Paris, before 100,000 spectators, further increasing Balavoine's popularity.\n\nIn 1979, he released his fourth album, \"Face amour / Face amère\" (Love side/Bitter side). Though it enjoyed moderate success, its sold fewer copies than the previous album. \"Me laisse pas m'en aller\" and \"Ces petit riens\" were the biggest hits from the record. Even still, this last opus allowed him to put on a very successful solo tour throughout France for the first time, with the high point being a three-day stint at the Olympia.\n\nIn 1980, Balavoine returned with his fifth studio album \"Un autre monde\". This record was particularly successful, with three songs hitting huge commercial success: \"Mon fils, ma bataille\" with 543,000 units sold (about a father's struggle to claim the custody of his son in the aftermath of a breakup, a similar theme to the 1979 movie \"Kramer vs. Kramer\"), \"Je ne suis pas un héros\", originally written for Johnny Hallyday (who later inserted it in his own set list in tribute), and \"La vie ne m'apprend rien\".\n\nBalavoine went on tour again and came back to the Olympia for four sold-out shows, which gave birth to his first live album \"Daniel Balavoine en concert\" in November 1981.\n\nDuring the winter of 1981, Balavoine went to Ibiza, Spain to write his sixth album. Balavoine decided to radically change his musical style, making it more rock-oriented and using electronic effects. In April 1982, \"Vendeur de larmes\" (a pun between \"tears\" and \"weapons\") was released, containing hits, such as \"Vivre ou Survivre\", \"Dieu que l'amour est triste\" and \"Soulève-moi\".\n\nThe album hit a huge success becoming a Diamond album after a few months. The following tour was also very popular, challenging the best performances of the time. During four days, Balavoine performed in Palais des Sports. All his shows were sold out.\n\nIn 1983, Balavoine participated in his first Paris-Dakar Rally. Victim of a breakdown during the first run, he followed the rest of the race as a spectator and discovered Africa. What he saw shocked him: \"When, arriving in a small village, we saw a kid looking for flies in order to eat them, there was nothing more to say.\" After that, he went to Scotland to write his seventh album. Very inspired by his African experience, he released \"Loin des yeux de L'Occident\" (\"Far from the Eyes of the West\"). According to music specialists, this last record is also his most politically committed. He talks about Third World women in \"Pour la femme veuve qui s'éveille\" (\"For the widow who is waking up\"), torture in \"Frappe avec la tête\" (\"Strike with the head\"), drugs in \"Poisson dans la cage\" (\"Fish in the cage\") and South American dictatorships in \"Revolucion\".\n\nThe melody, very close to one by Peter Gabriel, mixes electronic music (electrical guitar, keyboards etc.) with world music ambient with African drums.\n\nDuring the same year, he also starred in the musical \"Abbacadabra\", alongside ABBA's Frida Lyngstad. They performed the song \"Belle\" together.\n\nFollowing a terrorist bombing in Beirut, Balavoine, whose brother, Yves, was stationed, created a polemic by insulting the French veterans and the government that were pushing the war. Two weeks later, he made a public apology for the disorder he created.\n\nIn 1984, Balavoine returned on the road for a yearlong tour across France. For this new tour, Balavoine introduced new technologies like Vari-Lite lights and HF tech. Balavoine looked for the perfect sound and the perfect ambiance rather than the set, which was furnished sparsely. All his songs were rewritten with very pronounced rock arrangements.\n\nIn July, at age 31, Balavoine became a father for the first time. Touched and blessed by the event, he wrote a brand new song \"Dieu que c'est beau!\" (\"God it's so beautiful!\") and included it in his tour set list.\n\nHe also wrote a full album for his friend Catherine Ferry, using for the first time his Fairlight synthesizer.\n\nIn 1985, many prominent music stars were involved in charities and humanitarian events. Balavoine was invited to the Live Aid but did not have the opportunity to perform.\n\nFrench singers, including Balavoine, organised their own event, Singers Without Borders, which was not a big success mostly because of the expensive price of the tickets. Nevertheless, the concert album sold well.\n\nDuring the Summer, Balavoine went back in Scotland for his eighth and last record: \"\"Sauver l'amour\"\". The French artist innovates again using his Fairlight and it is the first album released on CD. The Fairlight allows Balavoine to insert a lot of electronic effects and sound never heard before. \"Sauvez l'amour\" generally is considered as the best demonstration of Balavoine's talent.\n\nMost songs of the album became hits: \"L'Aziza\", in honor of Corinne, his Jewish-Moroccan wife and mother of his son; \"Sauver l'amour\", the title song, an hymn to love; \"Tous les cris les SOS\", a song about despair, loneliness, and failure to communicate; \"Petit homme mort au combat\" about child soldiers; \"Aimer est plus fort que d'être aimé\", which was the last single released before Balavoine's death.\n\nThis album turned out to be his most successful: 1,240,000 records sold and 1,580,000 singles sold.\n\nDaniel Balavoine received, as a posthumous title, the Victoire de la Musique Album of the Year Award in 1986 for \"Sauver L'amour\".\n\nIn 1986, Daniel Balavoine was chosen to lead a fund-raising effort aimed at building water wells in Africa. In order to supervise it, he was invited by Thierry Sabine, founder and director of the Paris-Dakar Rally raid.\n\nOn January 14, 1986, Balavoine, Sabine, François-Xavier Bagnoud (HSH Albert II, Prince of Monaco's cousin), a female reporter and her cameraman got aboard Sabine's Eurocopter AS350 Écureuil helicopter to attend a soccer match. At 7:00 p.m., the helicopter encountered a desert storm and landed. But some time later, the chopper took off, and after a few minutes, it crashed and disintegrated, killing all five passengers on board.\n\nThe news of Sabine's and Balavoine's deaths plunged the country in deep grief. Balavoine was buried in Biarritz.\n\nBeginning in 1968, Balavoine became interested in French political life. During the massive strikes and social turmoil in May of that year, he first thought about going into politics. But the end of the movement and General de Gaulle's comeback disappointed him, and he turned his mind to music. In 1980, he confronted François Mitterrand, who was at this time the National Secretary of the French Socialist Party and a French presidential candidate, during a France 2 evening news broadcast, leaving the entire room speechless. During a seven-minute spontaneous speech, an angry Balavoine expressed how he felt about the political situation of the youth in France, namely that the youth completely was ignored by the political world, only interested in their own stuff.\n\nHe supported his friend Coluche in his presidential bid. When Coluche finally abandoned, François Mitterrand, who was impressed by the young artist's aura, asked him to join his campaign team. Balavoine performed during the first meetings, but finally left, feeling he was being used for political purposes. He turned his mind toward humanitarian work, especially in Africa. A few months before his death, he had joined an NGO called Action Ecole, a French charity supported by Bob Geldof, which creates student communities to raise funds for Africa. He was in charge of managing the building of water wells in the Sahel. It is while supervising this project that he died in the crash of Sabine's Ecureuil in Mali.\n\nThe French public look proudly upon songs like \"Vivre ou survivre\" (1982), \"Dieu que c'est beau\" (1984), \"L'Aziza\", \"Sauver l'amour\", \"Aimer est plus fort que d'être aimé\", and \"Tous les cris, les SOS\" (1985), comparing Balavoine favourably to English language groups like Eurythmics, Queen and Depeche Mode.\n\nBalavoine’s songs have been interpreted by many artists, for example Catherine Ferry for whom he wrote nearly 20 songs, Jeanne Mas, Liane Foly, Frida Lyngstad, Lena Ka, Johnny Hallyday, Pascal Obispo, Patrick Fiori, Florent Pagny, Grégory Lemarchal, as well as Marie Denise Pelletier (from Quebec) who had an enormous success with her own rendition of the song \"Tous les cris, les SOS\" in 1987.\n\nIn 1986, Belgian francophone artist Lara Fabian released her first single, \"L'Aziza est en pleurs\" (composed by Marc Lercs) in honour of Balavoine. In 2006, to mark the 20th anniversary of the singer's death, Barclay Records released his complete recorded works as a boxed set titled \"Balavoine sans frontières\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860374", "title": "Feedback arc set", "text": "Feedback arc set\n\nIn graph theory, a directed graph may contain directed cycles, a one-way loop of edges. In some applications, such cycles are undesirable, and we wish to eliminate them and obtain a directed acyclic graph (DAG). One way to do this is simply to drop edges from the graph to break the cycles. A feedback arc set (FAS) or feedback edge set is a set of edges which, when removed from the graph, leave a DAG. Put another way, it's a set containing at least one edge of every cycle in the graph.\n\nClosely related are the feedback vertex set, which is a set of vertices containing at least one vertex from every cycle in the directed graph, and the minimum spanning tree, which is the undirected variant of the feedback arc set problem.\n\nA minimal feedback arc set (one that can not be reduced in size by removing any edges) has the additional property that, if the edges in it are reversed rather than removed, then the graph remains acyclic. Finding a small edge set with this property is a key step in layered graph drawing.\n\nSometimes it is desirable to drop as few edges as possible, obtaining a minimum feedback arc set (MFAS), or dually a maximum acyclic subgraph. This is a hard computational problem, for which several approximate solutions have been devised.\n\nAs a simple example, consider the following hypothetical situation, where in order to achieve something, certain things must be achieved before other things:\n\n\nWe can express this as a graph problem. Let each vertex represent an item, and add an edge from A to B if you must have A to obtain B. Unfortunately, you don't have any of the three items, and because this graph is cyclic, you can't get any of them either.\n\nHowever, suppose you offer George $100 for his piano. If he accepts, this effectively removes the edge from the lawnmower to the piano, because you no longer need the lawnmower to get the piano. Consequently, the cycle is broken, and you can trade twice to get the lawnmower. This one edge constitutes a feedback arc set.\n\nAs in the above example, there is usually some cost associated with removing an edge. For this reason, we'd like to remove as few edges as possible. Removing one edge suffices in a simple cycle, but in general figuring out the minimum number of edges to remove is an NP-hard problem called the minimum feedback arc set or maximum acyclic subgraph problem.\n\nThis problem is particularly difficult in \"k\"-edge-connected graphs for large \"k\", where each edge falls in many different cycles. The decision version of the problem, which is NP-complete, asks whether all cycles can be broken by removing at most \"k\" edges; this was one of Richard M. Karp's 21 NP-complete problems, shown by reducing from the vertex cover problem.\n\nAlthough NP-complete, the feedback arc set problem is fixed-parameter tractable: there exists an algorithm for solving it whose running time is a fixed polynomial in the size of the input graph (independent of the number of edges in the set) but exponential in the number of edges in the feedback arc set.\nAlternatively, a fixed-parameter tractable algorithm is given by a dynamic programming technique that depends only exponentially on the \ndimension of the cycle space of the graph.\n\nThe minimum feedback arc set problem is APX-hard, which means that (assuming P ≠ NP) there is a hard limit on its approximation quality, a constant \"c\" > 1 such that every polynomial-time approximation algorithm will sometimes return an edge set larger than \"c\" times the optimal size. The proof involves approximation-preserving reductions from vertex cover to feedback vertex set, and from feedback vertex set to feedback arc set. More specifically, because vertex cover has no approximation better than 1.3606 unless P ≠ NP, the same is true for feedback arc set. That is, it is possible to take . If the unique games conjecture is true, this inapproximability threshold could be increased to arbitrarily close to 2.\n\nOn the other hand, the best known approximation algorithm has the non-constant approximation ratio \"O\"(log \"n\" log log \"n\"). For the dual problem, of approximating the maximum number of edges in an acyclic subgraph, an approximation somewhat better than 1/2 is possible. Determining whether feedback arc set has a constant-ratio approximation algorithm, or whether a non-constant ratio is necessary, remains an open problem.\n\nIf the input digraphs are restricted to be tournaments, the resulting problem is known as the \"minimum feedback arc set problem on tournaments\" (FAST). This restricted problem does admit a polynomial-time approximation scheme, and this still holds for a restricted weighted version of the problem. A subexponential fixed parameter algorithm for the weighted FAST was given by .\n\nOn the other hand, if the edges are undirected, the problem of deleting edges to make the graph cycle-free is equivalent to finding a minimum spanning tree, which can be done easily in polynomial time.\n\nSeveral approximation algorithms for the problem have been developed - including Monte Carlo randomized algorithm that solves the problem in polynomial time with arbitrary probability. A particularly simple algorithm is the following:\n\n\nNow both and are acyclic subgraphs of , and at least one of them is at least half the size of the maximum acyclic subgraph.\n"}
{"id": "1860376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860376", "title": "Lomas de Sargentillo", "text": "Lomas de Sargentillo\n\nLomas de Sargentillo is a town located in Guayas, Ecuador. It is the seat of Lomas de Sargentillo Canton, created in 1992.\n\nLomas de Sargentillo Canton is one of the smallest cantons in Guayas. Its area is 67 km². At the 2001 census, there were 14,194 people residing within canton limits.\n"}
{"id": "1860397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860397", "title": "List of South African provinces by area", "text": "List of South African provinces by area\n\nSince the election of 27 April 1994, South Africa has been divided into nine provinces. They vary widely in size, from the Northern Cape, which covers nearly one-third of the country's land area, to Gauteng, which takes up a mere 1.5%.\n\nThe Prince Edward Islands, which are considered part of the Western Cape for legal purposes but are administered by the national Department of Environmental Affairs, are not included in this table; they have surface areas of 290 km² (Marion Island) and 45 km² (Prince Edward Island).\n\nThe provincial borders have changed twice since 1994: once on 1 March 2006, when all provinces except the Free State and the Western Cape were affected; and once on 3 April 2009, when only the Gauteng–North West border was altered.\n\nThe pre-2006 figures are based on a less accurate calculation, and therefore the total is different from that for the post-2006 figures. \n"}
{"id": "1860403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860403", "title": "Forbidden Broadway Cleans Up Its Act", "text": "Forbidden Broadway Cleans Up Its Act\n\nForbidden Broadway Cleans Up Its Act is the fifth incarnation of Gerard Alessandrini's \"Forbidden Broadway\", his popular off-Broadway musical revue spoofing \"the best of Broadway\". All the parody lyrics were written (as always) by Gerard Alessandrini. This version was co-directed by Alessandrini and his long-time collaborator Phillip George. George had up till then only been credited with \"Musical Staging\" and as \"Assistant Director\". George also contributed many of the more successful ideas and dialogue sketches to the more recent \"Forbidden Broadway\" editions. The show played in the basement of Ellen's Stardust Diner, and the album is the fifth volume in the series. Because it features none of the original 1982 \"Forbidden Broadway\" cast members, it is labeled \"The Unoriginal Cast Recording\". It was recorded in December 1998 and released in 1999.\n\nThe leading premise of the show and album is that, like Times Square, FB should drop its raunchy demeanor and \"clean up\" its parodies. Naturally, the cast fails spectacularly, meanwhile spoofing new shows like \"Chicago\", \"The Lion King\", \"Ragtime\", \"Titanic\", \"Jekyll and Hyde\", and \"Footloose\". They also take stabs at personalities like Rudolph Giuliani, Ann Miller, Julie Taymor, Bebe Neuwirth, and Leonardo DiCaprio.\n\nThe cast members featured on the album and that starred in Cleans Up Its Act when it first opened are listed below:\n\n\nThe musical numbers, with title, original song, and original composers listed, that are featured on the album are listed below:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860407", "title": "K-means clustering", "text": "K-means clustering\n\n\"k\"-means clustering is a method of vector quantization, originally from signal processing, that aims to partition \"n\" observations into \"k\" clusters in which each observation belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean (cluster centers or cluster centroid), serving as a prototype of the cluster. This results in a partitioning of the data space into Voronoi cells. It is popular for cluster analysis in data mining. \"k\"-means clustering minimizes within-cluster variances (squared Euclidean distances), but not regular Euclidean distances, which would be the more difficult Weber problem: the mean optimizes squared errors, whereas only the geometric median minimizes Euclidean distances. For instance, better Euclidean solutions can be found using k-medians and k-medoids.\n\nThe problem is computationally difficult (NP-hard); however, efficient heuristic algorithms converge quickly to a local optimum. These are usually similar to the expectation-maximization algorithm for mixtures of Gaussian distributions via an iterative refinement approach employed by both \"k-means\" and \"Gaussian mixture modeling\". They both use cluster centers to model the data; however, \"k\"-means clustering tends to find clusters of comparable spatial extent, while the expectation-maximization mechanism allows clusters to have different shapes.\n\nThe algorithm has a loose relationship to the \"k\"-nearest neighbor classifier, a popular machine learning technique for classification that is often confused with \"k\"-means due to the name. Applying the 1-nearest neighbor classifier to the cluster centers obtained by \"k\"-means classifies new data into the existing clusters. This is known as nearest centroid classifier or Rocchio algorithm.\n\nGiven a set of observations (x, x, ..., x), where each observation is a \"d\"-dimensional real vector, \"k\"-means clustering aims to partition the \"n\" observations into \"k\" (≤ \"n\") sets S = {\"S\", \"S\", ..., \"S\"} so as to minimize the within-cluster sum of squares (WCSS) (i.e. variance). Formally, the objective is to find:formula_1where \"μ\" is the mean of points in \"S\". This is equivalent to minimizing the pairwise squared deviations of points in the same cluster:formula_2The equivalence can be deduced from identity formula_3. Because the total variance is constant, this is equivalent to maximizing the sum of squared deviations between points in \"different\" clusters (between-cluster sum of squares, BCSS), which follows from the law of total variance.\n\nThe term \"\"k\"-means\" was first used by James MacQueen in 1967, though the idea goes back to Hugo Steinhaus in 1956. The standard algorithm was first proposed by Stuart Lloyd of Bell Labs in 1957 as a technique for pulse-code modulation, though it wasn't published as a journal article until 1982. In 1965, Edward W. Forgy published essentially the same method, which is why it is sometimes referred to as Lloyd-Forgy.\n\nThe most common algorithm uses an iterative refinement technique. Due to its ubiquity, it is often called \"the \"k\"-means algorithm\"; it is also referred to as Lloyd's algorithm, particularly in the computer science community. It is sometimes also referred to as \"naive \"k\"-means\", because there exist much faster alternatives.\n\nGiven an initial set of \"k\" means \"m\"...,\"m\" (see below), the algorithm proceeds by alternating between two steps:\n\nThe algorithm has converged when the assignments no longer change. The algorithm does not guarantee to find the optimum.\n\nThe algorithm is often presented as assigning objects to the nearest cluster by distance. Using a different distance function other than (squared) Euclidean distance may stop the algorithm from converging. Various modifications of \"k\"-means such as spherical \"k\"-means and \"k\"-medoids have been proposed to allow using other distance measures.\n\nCommonly used initialization methods are Forgy and Random Partition. The Forgy method randomly chooses \"k\" observations from the dataset and uses these as the initial means. The Random Partition method first randomly assigns a cluster to each observation and then proceeds to the update step, thus computing the initial mean to be the centroid of the cluster's randomly assigned points. The Forgy method tends to spread the initial means out, while Random Partition places all of them close to the center of the data set. According to Hamerly et al., the Random Partition method is generally preferable for algorithms such as the \"k\"-harmonic means and fuzzy \"k\"-means. For expectation maximization and standard \"k\"-means algorithms, the Forgy method of initialization is preferable. A comprehensive study by Celebi et al., however, found that popular initialization methods such as Forgy, Random Partition, and Maximin often perform poorly, whereas Bradley and Fayyad's approach performs \"consistently\" in \"the best group\" and \"k\"-means++ performs \"generally well\".\n\nThe algorithm does not guarantee convergence to the global optimum. The result may depend on the initial clusters. As the algorithm is usually fast, it is common to run it multiple times with different starting conditions. However, worst-case performance can be slow: in particular certain point sets, even in two dimensions, converge in exponential time, that is . These point sets do not seem to arise in practice: this is corroborated by the fact that the smoothed running time of \"k\"-means is polynomial.\n\nThe \"assignment\" step is referred to as the \"expectation step\", while the \"update step\" is a maximization step, making this algorithm a variant of the \"generalized\" expectation-maximization algorithm.\n\nFinding the optimal solution to the \"k\"-means clustering problem for observations in \"d\" dimensions is:\n\n\nThus, a variety of heuristic algorithms such as Lloyd's algorithm given above are generally used.\n\nThe running time of Lloyd's algorithm (and most variants) is formula_9, where:\n\nOn data that does have a clustering structure, the number of iterations until convergence is often small, and results only improve slightly after the first dozen iterations. Lloyd's algorithm is therefore often considered to be of \"linear\" complexity in practice, although it is in the worst case superpolynomial when performed until convergence.\n\n\nLloyd's algorithm is the standard approach for this problem. However, it spends a lot of processing time computing the distances between each of the k cluster centers and the n data points. Since points usually stay in the same clusters after a few iterations, much of this work is unnecessary, making the naive implementation very inefficient. Some implementations use caching and the triangle inequality in order to create bounds and accelerate Lloyd's algorithm.\n\n\nHartigan and Wong's method provides a variation of \"k\"-means algorithm which progresses towards a local minimum of the minimum sum-of-squares problem with different solution updates. The method is a local search that iteratively attempts to relocate a sample into a different cluster as long as this process improves the objective function. When no sample can be relocated into a different cluster with an improvement of the objective, the method stops (in a local minimum). In a similar way as the classical \"k\"-means, the approach remains a heuristic since it does not necessarily guarantee that the final solution is globally optimum.\n\nLet formula_18 be the individual cost of formula_19 defined by formula_20, with formula_21 the center of the cluster.\n\nAssignment step: Hartigan and Wong's method starts by partitioning the points into random clusters formula_22.\n\nUpdate step: Next it determines the formula_23 and formula_24 for which the following function reaches a minimum\n\nFor the formula_26 that reach this minimum, formula_27 moves from the cluster formula_28 to the cluster formula_29.\n\nTermination: The algorithm terminates once formula_30 is larger than zero for all formula_26.\n\nDifferent move acceptance strategies can be used. In a \"first-improvement\" strategy, any improving relocation can be applied, whereas in a \"best-improvement\" strategy, all possible relocations are iteratively tested and only the best is applied at each iteration. The former approach favors speed, whether the latter approach generally favors solution quality at the expense of additional computational time. The function formula_32 used to calculate the result of a relocation can also be efficiently evaluated by using equality\n\nThe classical k-means algorithm and its variations are known to only converge to local minima of the minimum-sum-of-squares clustering problem defined as formula_34Many studies have attempted to improve the convergence behavior of the algorithm and maximize the chances of attaining the global optimum (or at least, local minima of better quality). Initialization and restart techniques discussed in the previous sections are one alternative to find better solutions. More recently, mathematical programming algorithms based on branch-and-bound and column generation have produced ‘’provenly optimal’’ solutions for datasets with up to 2,300 entities. As expected, due to the NP-hardness of the subjacent optimization problem, the computational time of optimal algorithms for K-means quickly increases beyond this size. Optimal solutions for small- and medium-scale still remain valuable as a benchmark tool, to evaluate the quality of other heuristics. To find high-quality local minima within a controlled computational time but without optimality guarantees, other works have explored metaheuristics and other global optimization techniques, e.g., based on incremental approaches and convex optimization, random swaps (i.e., iterated local search), variable neighborhood searchand genetic algorithms. It is indeed known that finding better local minima of the minimum sum-of-squares clustering problem can make the difference between failure and success to recover cluster structures in feature spaces of high dimension.\n\nThree key features of \"k\"-means that make it efficient are often regarded as its biggest drawbacks:\n\n\nA key limitation of \"k\"-means is its cluster model. The concept is based on spherical clusters that are separable so that the mean converges towards the cluster center. The clusters are expected to be of similar size, so that the assignment to the nearest cluster center is the correct assignment. When for example applying \"k\"-means with a value of formula_35 onto the well-known Iris flower data set, the result often fails to separate the three Iris species contained in the data set. With formula_36, the two visible clusters (one containing two species) will be discovered, whereas with formula_35 one of the two clusters will be split into two even parts. In fact, formula_36 is more appropriate for this data set, despite the data set's containing 3 \"classes\". As with any other clustering algorithm, the \"k\"-means result makes assumptions that the data satisfy certain criteria. It works well on some data sets, and fails on others.\n\nThe result of \"k\"-means can be seen as the Voronoi cells of the cluster means. Since data is split halfway between cluster means, this can lead to suboptimal splits as can be seen in the \"mouse\" example. The Gaussian models used by the expectation-maximization algorithm (arguably a generalization of \"k\"-means) are more flexible by having both variances and covariances. The EM result is thus able to accommodate clusters of variable size much better than \"k\"-means as well as correlated clusters (not in this example). In counterpart, EM requires the optimization of a larger number of free parameters and poses some methodological issues due to vanishing clusters or badly-conditioned covariance matrices. \"K\"-means is closely related to nonparametric Bayesian modeling.\n\n\"k\"-means clustering is rather easy to apply to even large data sets, particularly when using heuristics such as Lloyd's algorithm. It has been successfully used in market segmentation, computer vision, and astronomy among many other domains. It often is used as a preprocessing step for other algorithms, for example to find a starting configuration.\n\n\"k\"-means originates from signal processing, and still finds use in this domain. For example, in computer graphics, color quantization is the task of reducing the color palette of an image to a fixed number of colors \"k\". The \"k\"-means algorithm can easily be used for this task and produces competitive results. A use case for this approach is image segmentation. Other uses of vector quantization include non-random sampling, as \"k\"-means can easily be used to choose \"k\" different but prototypical objects from a large data set for further analysis.\n\nIn cluster analysis, the \"k\"-means algorithm can be used to partition the input data set into \"k\" partitions (clusters).\n\nHowever, the pure \"k\"-means algorithm is not very flexible, and as such is of limited use (except for when vector quantization as above is actually the desired use case). In particular, the parameter \"k\" is known to be hard to choose (as discussed above) when not given by external constraints. Another limitation is that it cannot be used with arbitrary distance functions or on non-numerical data. For these use cases, many other algorithms are superior.\n\n\"k\"-means clustering has been used as a feature learning (or dictionary learning) step, in either (semi-)supervised learning or unsupervised learning. The basic approach is first to train a \"k\"-means clustering representation, using the input training data (which need not be labelled). Then, to project any input datum into the new feature space, an \"encoding\" function, such as the thresholded matrix-product of the datum with the centroid locations, computes the distance from the datum to each centroid, or simply an indicator function for the nearest centroid, or some smooth transformation of the distance. Alternatively, transforming the sample-cluster distance through a Gaussian RBF, obtains the hidden layer of a radial basis function network.\n\nThis use of \"k\"-means has been successfully combined with simple, linear classifiers for semi-supervised learning in NLP (specifically for named entity recognition) and in computer vision. On an object recognition task, it was found to exhibit comparable performance with more sophisticated feature learning approaches such as autoencoders and restricted Boltzmann machines. However, it generally requires more data, for equivalent performance, because each data point only contributes to one \"feature\".\n\nThe slow \"standard algorithm\" for \"k\"-means clustering, and its associated expectation-maximization algorithm, is a special case of a Gaussian mixture model, specifically, the limiting case when fixing all covariances to be diagonal, equal and have infinitesimal small variance. Instead of small variances, a hard cluster assignment can also be used to show another equivalence of \"k\"-means clustering to a special case of \"hard\" Gaussian mixture modelling. This does not mean that it is efficient to use Gaussian mixture modelling to compute \"k\"-means, but just that there is a theoretical relationship, and that Gaussian mixture modelling can be interpreted as a generalization of \"k\"-means; on the contrary, it has been suggested to use k-means clustering to find starting points for Gaussian mixture modelling on difficult data.\n\nAnother generalization of the \"k\"-means algorithm is the K-SVD algorithm, which estimates data points as a sparse linear combination of \"codebook vectors\". \"k\"-means corresponds to the special case of using a single codebook vector, with a weight of 1.\n\nThe relaxed solution of -means clustering, specified by the cluster indicators, is given by principal component analysis (PCA). The intuition is that \"k\"-means describe spherically shaped (ball-like) clusters. If the data has 2 clusters, the line connecting the two centroids is the best 1-dimensional projection direction, which is also the first PCA direction. Cutting the line at the center of mass separates the clusters (this is the continuous relaxation of the discrete cluster indicator). If the data have three clusters, the 2-dimensional plane spanned by three cluster centroids is the best 2-D projection. This plane is also defined by the first two PCA dimensions. Well-separated clusters are effectively modelled by ball-shaped clusters and thus discovered by \"k\"-means. Non-ball-shaped clusters are hard to separate when they are close. For example, two half-moon shaped clusters intertwined in space do not separate well when projected onto PCA subspace. \"k\"-means should not be expected to do well on this data. It is straightforward to produce counterexamples to the statement that the cluster centroid subspace is spanned by the principal directions.\n\nBasic mean shift clustering algorithms maintain a set of data points the same size as the input data set. Initially, this set is copied from the input set. Then this set is iteratively replaced by the mean of those points in the set that are within a given distance of that point. By contrast, \"k\"-means restricts this updated set to \"k\" points usually much less than the number of points in the input data set, and replaces each point in this set by the mean of all points in the \"input set\" that are closer to that point than any other (e.g. within the Voronoi partition of each updating point). A mean shift algorithm that is similar then to \"k\"-means, called \"likelihood mean shift\", replaces the set of points undergoing replacement by the mean of all points in the input set that are within a given distance of the changing set. One of the advantages of mean shift over \"k\"-means is that the number of clusters is not pre-specified, because mean shift is likely to find only a few clusters if only a small number exist. However, mean shift can be much slower than \"k\"-means, and still requires selection of a bandwidth parameter. Mean shift has soft variants.\n\nUnder sparsity assumptions and when input data is pre-processed with the whitening transformation, \"k\"-means produces the solution to the linear independent component analysis (ICA) task. This aids in explaining the successful application of \"k\"-means to feature learning.\n\n\"k\"-means implicitly assumes that the ordering of the input data set does not matter. The bilateral filter is similar to \"k\"-means and mean shift in that it maintains a set of data points that are iteratively replaced by means. However, the bilateral filter restricts the calculation of the (kernel weighted) mean to include only points that are close in the ordering of the input data. This makes it applicable to problems such as image denoising, where the spatial arrangement of pixels in an image is of critical importance.\n\nThe set of squared error minimizing cluster functions also includes the -medoids algorithm, an approach which forces the center point of each cluster to be one of the actual points, i.e. it uses medoids in place of centroids.\n\nDifferent implementations of the algorithm exhibit performance differences, with the fastest on a test data set finishing in 10 seconds, the slowest taking 25,988 seconds (~7 hours). The differences can be attributed to implementation quality, language and compiler differences, different termination criteria and precision levels, and the use of indexes for acceleration.\n\nThe following implementations are available under Free/Open Source Software licenses, with publicly available source code.\n\n\nThe following implementations are available under proprietary license terms, and may not have publicly available source code.\n"}
{"id": "1860416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860416", "title": "Tyet", "text": "Tyet\n\nThe tyet (), sometimes called the knot of Isis or girdle of Isis, is an ancient Egyptian symbol that came to be connected with the goddess Isis. Its hieroglyphic depiction is catalogued as V39 in Gardiner's sign list.\n\nIn many respects the \"tyet\" resembles an ankh, except that its arms curve down. Its meaning is also reminiscent of the ankh, as it is often translated to mean \"welfare\" or \"life\".\n\nThe \"tyet\" resembles a knot of cloth and may have originally been a bandage used to absorb menstrual blood.\n\nAn early example of a \"tyet\" sign comes from a First Dynasty tomb at Helwan, excavated by Zaki Saad in the 1940s. This example predates the first written references to Isis and may not have been connected with her at the time. In later times, it came to be linked with her and with the healing powers that were an important aspect of her character.\n\n\"Tyet\" amulets came to be buried with the dead in the early New Kingdom of Egypt (c. 1550–1070 BC). The earliest examples date to the reign of Amenhotep III, and from then until the end of dynastic Egyptian history, few people were buried without one placed within the mummy wrappings, usually on the upper torso. Ancient Egyptian funerary texts included many passages describing the use of different types of amulets and include spells to be recited over them. Chapter 156 of the Book of the Dead, a New Kingdom funerary text, calls for a \"tyet\" amulet made of red jasper to be placed at the neck of a mummy, saying \"the power of Isis will be the protection of [the mummy's] body\" and that the amulet \"will drive away whoever would commit a crime against him.\" Such amulets were often made of red jasper or similarly colored materials, such as carnelian or red glass. However, many others were made of green materials such as Egyptian faience, whose color represented the renewal of life.\n\nAnother type of knot is sometimes called the \"Isis knot\": a large knot in a mantle worn by Egyptian women from the Late Period onward. It is associated with Isis because it often appeared on statues of her in Hellenistic and Roman times, but apart from the name it is not related to the \"tyet\".\n\nThe \"tyet\" can be compared with the Minoan sacral knot, a symbol of a knot with a projecting loop found in Knossos, Crete.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860421", "title": "Tim Lucas", "text": "Tim Lucas\n\nTim Lucas (born May 30, 1956) is a film critic, biographer, novelist, screenwriter, blogger, and publisher and editor of the video review magazine \"Video Watchdog\".\n\nLucas, born in Cincinnati, Ohio, was the only child of Marion Frank Lucas, a typesetter and musician, and the former Juanita Grace Wilson; his father died six months prior to his birth, on November 14, 1955, of a congenital heart ailment at age 33. He subsequently spent most of his childhood in the homes of various relatives and caregivers, seeing his widowed mother only on weekends, when she took him to drive-in theaters. After publishing single issues of two fanzines, he became a film critic and cartoonist for Norwood High School's newspaper \"The Mirror\" while still a freshman. He began writing professionally at the age of fifteen, when his first reviews were accepted by the influential fantasy film review \"Cinefantastique\". He served at one of the magazine's midwestern bureaus for the next ten years.\n\nThough Lucas never formally graduated high school, he succeeded in placing an essay in \"Purdue University\"'s literary quarterly \"Modern Fiction Studies\" on the occasion of its Autumn 1981 issue, dedicated to British novelist \"Anthony Burgess\". Jokingly, Lucas has described this accomplishment as his \"honorary doctorate\" because his letter of acceptance was addressed to \"Dr. Timothy Lucas.\" His article, \"The Old Shelley Game: Prometheus and Predestination in Burgess's Works\", was subsequently anthologized in \"Modern Critical Views: Anthony Burgess\" (1987, ), a collection \"of the best criticism available upon the novels of Anthony Burgess\" in the words of its editor, Harold Bloom.\n\nIt was in 1984, while reviewing Betamax and VHS releases for the Chicago-based magazine \"Video Times\", that \"Tim pretty much invented video reviewing as a genre distinct from movie reviewing,\" innovating the way in which home video releases are generally reviewed today. While other writers at the time preferred to review only the films, without venturing any comment whatsoever on their presentation, Lucas focused on how films were being treated by this new medium: the transfer, the picture cropping, the completeness of the source element. Pleased with his work, the editors of \"Video Times\" hired him to edit and co-author a series of twelve paperback video guides published in the summer and winter of 1985 by Signet Books. Of these, he wrote the introductions to all twelve and the entirety of four: \"Movie Classics\", \"Horror\", \"Science Fiction & Fantasy\" and \"Mystery & Suspense\". The books, his first as a published author, were formally credited to \"The Editors of \"Video Times\"\" with Lucas receiving credit only on the copyright pages.\n\nIn October 1985, \"Video Times\" published the first installment of a new Lucas column, \"Video Watchdog\", in which he investigated the changes made to various films (usually horror, cult and fantastic) when they appeared on video. With the dissolution of \"Video Times\" in 1986, the column resurfaced as a shot-on-video featurette, hosted and narrated by Lucas, in Pacific Arts Corporation's one-shot video-magazine-on-video experiment \"Overview\", produced by Michael Nesmith. \"Video Watchdog\" was subsequently reborn in the pages of the \"Fangoria\" spin-off \"Gorezone\", where it regularly appeared from 1988 to 1992. These early Watchdog columns were later collected with other relevant material in \"The Video Watchdog Book\" (1992, ).\n\nWith his wife Donna Lucas, Lucas launched \"Video Watchdog\" as a separate magazine in June 1990 with a focus on extremely detailed articles that made it a key source of serious film criticism. \"Video Watchdog\" added full color covers with #13 (September/October 1992), increased its frequency from bimonthly to monthly with #55 (January 2000), and changed to a full interior color format with its 100th issue (October 2003). The magazine's unique approach to reviewing home video releases has since been widely adopted as the norm, especially by online critics. Its contributors include many renowned authors of film reportage and also fiction, including Kim Newman, Ramsey Campbell, David J. Schow and Douglas E. Winter.\n\n\"Video Watchdog\" won the Rondo Hatton Classic Horror Award as Best Magazine every year from 2002 through 2006, the first five years the award was presented. The magazine's 20th Anniversary issue was published in June 2010. More recently, director Quentin Tarantino praised \"Video Watchdog\" in the pages of the Italian newspaper \"Il Fatto Quotidiano\" as \"l'unica rivista di cinema autorevole al mondo\" (\"the only reliable film magazine in the world\").\n\n\"Video Watchdog\" ceased publication with its 184th issue in June 2017.\n\nLucas's critical biography \"Mario Bava All the Colors of the Dark\" (), a vast work thirty-two years in preparation, with a special introduction penned by Martin Scorsese, was published in August 2007 by Video Watchdog. This 800,000-word mammoth received words of praise from such filmmakers as Guillermo del Toro and Joe Dante. It also won numerous awards. It was honored as Best Book of 2007 by The Rondo Hatton Classic Horror Awards and the \"Sex Gore Mutants\" website, as an Independent Publisher Book Award Bronze Medal winner in the Performing Arts category, and The Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films recognized \"Mario Bava: All the Colors of the Dark\" by having actor John Saxon present Lucas and his wife Donna with the rarely presented Saturn Award for Special Achievement. In November 2008, the book also received the International Horror Guild Award as the best Non-fiction work of 2007. In the aforementioned \"Il Fatto Quotidiano\" interview of 2010, Quentin Tarantino hailed \"Mario Bava All the Colors of the Dark\" as \"the best book on films ever written.\"\n\nLucas' \"Videodrome\", a study of the 1983 David Cronenberg film, inaugurated the new \"Studies in the Horror Film\" line from Centipede Press in September 2008. The book is an amalgam of Lucas' previously unpublished production history, written in 1983, and new chapters encompassing essay, criticism, and personal memoir.\n\nLucas' most recent volume of non-fiction, \"Spirits of the Dead (Histoires Extraordinaires)\", is a novel-length monograph about the 1968 anthology film based on three Edgar Allan Poe tales, directed by Roger Vadim, Louis Malle, and Federico Fellini. It was published in the UK by PS Publishing's imprint Electric Dreamhouse.\n\nBeginning in October 2005, Lucas supplemented his editorial duties with \"Video WatchBlog\", an essay blog that touches on film, music and literary as well as personal subjects; and \"NoZone\", a DVD column for the British monthly \"Sight and Sound\" (which ran for 112 issues, ending its run with the newly reformatted September 2012 issue); \"Video WatchBlog\" received the Rondo Award for Best Website/Blog in 2007 and Best Blog in 2009. He also makes frequent contributions of liner notes, audio commentaries and archival materials to DVD and Blu-ray releases.\n\nOn January 1, 2012, Lucas launched \"Pause. Rewind. Obsess.\", a new blog designated as his 2012 screening diary. It was discontinued at the end of that year after 222 entries, briefly revived in 2013 and discontinued again at the end of that year, evidently absorbed into the ongoing \"Video WatchBlog\".\n\nIn 2013, a new Lucas column entitled \"Tales from the Attic\" debuted as a regular feature in the 28th issue of \"Gorezone\", the subscription-only sister publication of \"Fangoria\". It was nominated for Best Magazine Column in the 2013 Rondo Hatton Classic Horror Film Awards.\n\nOther film-related books featuring his work are \"The Book of Lists: Horror\" (edited by Amy Wallace, Del Howison and Scott Bradley), \"Nebula Awards Showcase 2009\" (edited by Ellen Datlow), \"If Looks Could Kill\" (edited by Marketa Uhlirova), \"The Famous Monsters Chronicles\" (edited by Dennis Daniel), \"Horror: Another 100 Best Books\" (edited by Stephen Jones and Kim Newman), \"The BFI Companion to Horror\" (edited by Kim Newman), \"The Shape of Rage: The Films of David Cronenberg\" (edited by Piers Handling), \"The Eyeball Companion\" (edited by Stephen Thrower), \"The Hong Kong Filmography\" by John Charles (with a foreword by Lucas), \"José Mojica Marins: 50 anos de carreira\" (edited by Eugenio Puppo) and \"Obsession: The Films of Jess Franco\". He is also the subject of a chapter-long interview in \"Xerox Ferox: The Wild World of the Horror Film Fanzine\" by John Szpunar.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1992, Lucas contributed a number of comics stories to Stephen R. Bissette's graphic horror anthology \"Taboo\", including three stories that formed the genesis of his first novel, \"Throat Sprockets\", two (\"Throat Sprockets\", \"Transylvania mon amour\") illustrated by Mike Hoffman and the last (\"The Disaster Area\") drawn by David Lloyd. Lucas' other Taboo stories were \"Sweet Nothings\" (illustrated by Simonida Perica-Uth) and \"Blue Angel\" (illustrated by Stephen Blue). In 2013, he penned an introduction to the first issue of \"Flesh and Blood\", a graphic horror novel serial co-written by Robert Tinnell and Todd Livingston and illustrated by Neil D. Vokes.\n\nIn 2006, Lucas became a published poet when he placed several poems in issues 13 and 14 of the Manchester, England-based journal \"The Ugly Tree.\" In 2013, his first-published short story, entitled \"Banishton\", appeared in the first issue of the British literary magazine \"The Imperial Youth Review.\" \n\nLucas has also enjoyed critical success as a novelist. \"Throat Sprockets\" (1994, ), the fulfillment of an uncompleted graphic novel serialized in \"Taboo\", is about a man whose life is altered by a chance encounter with an erotic and disturbing film of mysterious origin. It was singled out as the year's best first novel in Terri Windling and Ellen Datlow's \"The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror\", and was chosen by novelist Tananarive Due for inclusion in \"Horror: Another 100 Best Books\" (2005, ). In October 2006, \"Rue Morgue\" magazine included \"Throat Sprockets\" on a list of 50 essential alternative horror novels.\n\nAfter completing work on his Bava magnum opus, Lucas ended his decade-long hiatus from fiction with \"The Book of Renfield: A Gospel of Dracula\" (2005, ), a complement to Bram Stoker's \"Dracula\" that focuses on the character of Renfield and how the circumstances of his tragic past predisposed him to become the ideal pawn for the Lord of the Undead. The novel was generally overlooked upon publication but can be seen in hindsight as the point of origin for the \"mash-up\" horror novels that rose to commercial prominence at the end of the decade, for its incorporation of approximately 50 pages of Stoker's novel into the weave of its original narrative.\n\nAnnounced for forthcoming release in 2020 are two previously unpublished novels, \"The Only Criminal\" and \"The Art World,\" for Riverdale Avenue Books, and \"The Secret Life of Love Songs\",a new novella from PS Publishing. Lucas has announced on Facebook that the latter work will be complemented by a soundtrack CD of five original song compositions, co-written by Lucas with Dorothy Moskowitz, former lead singer of the 1960s Columbia Records electronica group, The United States of America. Their first released composition, \"Merry Christmas Anyhow\", made its streaming debut as a solo recording by Moskowitz (as Dorothy Moskowitz Falarski) in December 2019. Both Moskowitz and Lucas will perform on the soundtrack recording, as well as noted guitarists Gary Lucas (no relation) and Mike Fornatale.\n\nOne of Lucas' film scripts, \"The Man with Kaleidoscope Eyes\" (co-written with Charlie Largent), a comedy about the filming of Roger Corman's 1967 film \"The Trip\" is currently optioned by Metaluna Productions for director Joe Dante. In October 2016, the script was the subject of a live table reading at the Vista Theater in Los Angeles, promoted as \"The Best Film Never Made.\" The performance starred Bill Hader as Corman, Roger Corman himself as Roger Today, Ethan Embry as Jack Nicholson, and Claudia O'Doherty as Corman's longtime assistant Frances Doel. Lucas has reportedly since adapted the script as a novel, but no release has yet been announced.\n\nIn November 2010, Lucas made his directorial debut at The Factory Digital Filmmaking School of the Douglas Education Center in Monessen, PA with a promotional trailer and dialogue scene for a proposed feature film adaptation of his novel \"Throat Sprockets\", executive produced by Robert Tinnell. The dialogue scene, a self-contained six-minute short adapted from the novel's \"Transylvania mon amour\" chapter, features Christopher Scott Grimaldi as Ad Man (unnamed in the novel) and Brandy Loveless as Nancy Reagan. The short had its World Premiere at the Fantasia Film Festival in Montreal, Quebec on July 18, 2011, as a lead-in to the documentary \"Jean Rollin - Le Reveur Égare\".\n\nSince 2000, Lucas has recorded more than 100 different feature-length audio commentaries for DVD and Blu-ray releases in the United States and abroad. A complete list can be found on the Notes page of Lucas' Facebook account. In addition to providing commentaries for most Mario Bava releases, he has been chosen to speak on a wide range of other subjects, including Georges Franju (\"Eyes Without A Face\" - BFI UK release only), Jean-Luc Godard (\"Alphaville\" - Kino Lorber release only), Roger Corman (\"Pit and the Pendulum\" - Arrow Films & Video UK release only)\", Jess Franco (Redemption's \"The Awful Dr. Orlof\"), Robert Fuest (\"Dr. Phibes Rises Again\" - Arrow Films & Video UK release only) and Alain Robbe-Grillet (each of the five main features in BFI's 2014 box set, and Kino Lorber's \"Last Year at Marienbad\").\n\nLucas won in three different categories of the 2006 The Rondo Hatton Classic Horror Awards: Best Writer, Best Magazine (Video Watchdog, its fifth annual win in this category) and Best Website (\"Video WatchBlog\"). He continued his winning streak as Best Writer in 2007 and 2008; after a two-year gap, he was recognized as such again in 2011 and 2012. In the 2013 Rondo Awards, he won in the category of Best Interview for his \"Top 50 Best Sequels\" interview with Quentin Tarantino in Video Watchdog #172. Lucas currently holds a record total of 18 Rondo Awards. With his wife and business partner Donna, Lucas was inducted into the Monster Kid Hall of Fame at the 2010 Rondo Awards ceremony in May 2011. The Lucases were additionally honored in 2018 when they were presented with the first, and to date only, Rondo Legacy Award, for publishing Video Watchdog over three decades. \n\nLucas is also twice a recipient of The Saturn Award: in 2008 he received the Award for Special Achievement for Mario Bava All the Colors of the Dark, and in 2018 Kino Lorber's release of Alfred Hitchcock's \"Lifeboat\" - featuring Lucas' audio commentary - was honored as the year's Best Classic Film DVD Release.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860423", "title": "Clifton Fadiman", "text": "Clifton Fadiman\n\nClifton Paul \"Kip\" Fadiman (May 15, 1904 – June 20, 1999) was an American intellectual, author, editor, radio and television personality. He began his work with the radio, and switched to television later in his career.\n\nBorn in Brooklyn, New York, Fadiman was a nephew of the emigree Russian psychologist Boris Sidis and a first cousin of the child prodigy William James Sidis.\n\nFadiman grew up in Brooklyn. His mother worked as a nurse; his father, Isadore, immigrated from Russia in 1892 and worked as a druggist.\n\nHe attended Columbia College at Columbia University. One of his teachers was lifelong friend Mark Van Doren; his undergraduate contemporaries included Jacques Barzun, Mortimer Adler, Lionel Trilling, Herbert Solow, Arthur F. Burns, Frank S. Hogan, Louis Zukofsky and Whittaker Chambers. Though he entered with the Class of 1924, his graduation was delayed until 1925 because of financial constraints. Chambers clearly includes Fadiman in a group of \"ernste Menschen\" [\"serious people\"], whose ability to attend Columbia he attributes to \"a struggle with a warping poverty impossible for those who have not glimpsed it to imagine it.\" He graduated Phi Beta Kappa.\nFadiman had ambitions to become a scholar, but at graduation, the chairman of the English Department told him, \"We have room for only one Jew, and we have chosen Mr. Trilling.\"\n\nAfter graduation from Columbia, Fadiman taught English at the Ethical Culture High School (now known as the \"Fieldston School\") in the Bronx from 1925 to 1927.\n\nFadiman worked ten years for Simon & Schuster, ending as its chief editor. At his interview with Max Schuster (a fellow alumnus of Columbia), Fadiman pulled out a folder with a hundred ideas for books. Among Fadiman's original one hundred was to turn Robert Ripley's newspaper cartoon, \"Believe it or Not!\" into book form. The series has gone on to sell over 30 million copies.\n\nWhile at Simon & Schuster, he started the translation career of Whittaker Chambers by having him translate \"Bambi\" from German: My college friend, Clifton Fadiman, was then [circa 1927–1928] a reader at Simon and Schuster, the New York book publishers. He offered to let me try my hand at translating a little German book. It was about a deer named Bambi and was written by an Austrian, of whom I had never heard, named Felix Salten... Bambi was an instant success, and I suddenly found myself an established translator.\n\nFadiman then took charge of \"The New Yorker's\" book review section, 1933–1943.\n\nHe became emcee for the National Book Award ceremonies in 1938 and 1939, at least, and again when those literary awards by the American book industry were re-inaugurated in 1950. (The awards were inaugurated May 1936, conferred annually through 1942 [publication years 1935 to 1941], and re-inaugurated March 1950 [publication year 1949].)\n\nFadiman became a judge for the Book of the Month Club in 1944.\n\nIn the 1970s he was also senior editor of Cricket Magazine, where he wrote the book review column for children, \"Cricket's Bookshelf\".\n\nWhile still at the \"New Yorker\", Fadiman became well-known on radio, where he hosted its most popular quiz show, \"Information, Please!\" from May 1938 to June 1948. A regular trio of pundits—Franklin P. Adams, John Kieran and Oscar Levant—plus one guest expert conducted each session with erudite charm and good-natured wordplay under Fadiman's nimble control. (Guest John Gunther's mention of the then-current Iranian potentate prompted Fadiman to ask, \"Are you shah of that?,\" to which Gunther quipped, \"Why, sultanly!\") Fadiman also made frequent appearances on the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts from 1949 to 1960. During the intermission segments he would discuss the opera being broadcast and interview famous opera singers.\n\nIn 1952, \"Information Please!\" was briefly revived for CBS Television as a 13-week summer replacement for the musical variety program \"The Fred Waring Show\". During that June–September period, devoted fans of the departed radio program could finally not only hear, but also see Fadiman, Adams, and Kieran in action.\n\nHis longest-lasting TV program was \"This Is Show Business\", which ran on CBS from July 15, 1949 to March 9, 1954. Called \"This Is Broadway\" during the first four months of its run, the show mixed song, dance, and other musical entertainment, with information. Host Fadiman, celebrity guest panelists, and regular raconteurs/intellectuals Kaufman, Abe Burrows, and Sam Levenson commented on the musical performers and chatted with them. In late September 1951, \"This Is Show Business\" became the first regular CBS Television series to be broadcast live from coast-to-coast. The continuing need in 1950s TV for summer series to replace live variety shows likewise brought this show back in 1956 for a 12-week period (June 26 – September 11). Fadiman and Burrows returned along with new panelists Walter Slezak and actress Jacqueline Susann, the future author of \"Valley of the Dolls\". Susann's husband, TV executive Irving Mansfield, produced the 1956 revival for NBC television.\n\nFadiman was also the last master of ceremonies to host the ABC-TV game show \"The Name's the Same\". After the departure of original host Robert Q. Lewis, who had presided for three years, producers Mark Goodson and Bill Todman hired different hosts for the final 39-episode cycle: Dennis James for 18 weeks, then Bob and Ray for 10 weeks, and then Fadiman for the remaining 11 weeks. The series, broadcast live, featured namesakes of celebrities and other \"famous names\". On August 16, 1955, when a woman contestant was discovered to be \"Hope Diamond,\" Fadiman personally orchestrated an astounding surprise: he arranged for the \"real\" Hope Diamond to be displayed to the amazed panelists and the national television audience. Such was Fadiman's reputation that the priceless jewel was entrusted to him.\n\nFadiman filled in for \"What's My Line?\" host John Charles Daly for two weeks in 1958 when Daly was on assignment in Tokyo.\n\nFadiman's witticisms and sayings were frequently printed in newspapers and magazines. \"When you reread a classic, you do not see more in the book than you did before, you see more in you than there was before,\" was one of the better known. Of Stendhal, Fadiman wrote, \"He has no grace, little charm, less humor... [and] is not really a good storyteller...\"\n\nWith the advent of TV, Fadiman gained in popularity, quickly establishing himself as an all-purpose, highly knowledgeable guest and host. At ease in front of the TV camera and experienced from his years in radio, he frequently appeared on talk shows and hosted a number of upscale quiz programs.\n\nFadiman became a prime example of the \"witty intellectual\" type popular on television in the 1950s. John Charles Daly, Bennett Cerf, George S. Kaufman, Alexander King, and a number of other television celebrities personified, along with Fadiman, the highly educated, elegant, patrician raconteurs and pundits regarded by TV executives of that era as appealing to the upper-class owners of expensive early TV sets.\n\nFadiman received the Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters from the National Book Foundation.\n\nFadiman's first marriage was in 1927 to Pauline Elizabeth Rush, with whom he had a son, Jonathan Rush. They divorced in 1949. His second marriage was in 1950 to Annalee Jacoby, aka Annalee Fadiman, an author, screenwriter for MGM and World War II foreign correspondent for \"Time\" and \"Life\". As a widow, she later used the name Annalee Jacoby Fadiman. She co-wrote \"Thunder Out of China\" with Theodore H. White (1946). Clifton and Annalee had a son, Kim Fadiman, and a daughter, writer Anne Fadiman. On February 5, 2002, Annalee committed suicide in Captiva, Florida, aged 85, after a long battle with breast cancer and Parkinson's disease.\n\nFadiman lost his eyesight when he was in his early 90s but continued to review manuscripts for the Book of the Month Club by listening to tapes of books recorded by his son Kim, after which Fadiman would dictate his impressions to his secretary.\n\nFadiman died on June 20, 1999, of pancreatic cancer in Sanibel, Florida, at the age of 95 - he lived on nearby Captiva Island. In the year of his death, a fourth edition of Fadiman's \"Lifetime Reading Plan\" was published as \"The New Lifetime Reading Plan\".\n\nIn its obituary, the \"New York Times\" called Fadiman an \"essayist, critic, editor and indefatigable anthologist whose encyclopedic knowledge made him a mainstay of \"Information Please\" and other popular radio programs in the late 1930s, 40s and 50s\" and noted that he \"also helped establish the Book-of-the-Month Club and served on its editorial board for more than 50 years.\"\n\nThe catalog of the Library of Congress has more than 90 works associated with Fadiman's name.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Library of Congress has many recordings of Fadiman, which include:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860424", "title": "The Last Days of Pompeii", "text": "The Last Days of Pompeii\n\nThe Last Days of Pompeii is a novel written by Edward Bulwer-Lytton in 1834. The novel was inspired by the painting \"The Last Day of Pompeii\" by the Russian painter Karl Briullov, which Bulwer-Lytton had seen in Milan. It culminates in the cataclysmic destruction of the city of Pompeii by the eruption of Mount Vesuvius in AD 79.\nThe novel uses its characters to contrast the decadent culture of 1st-century Rome with both older cultures and coming trends. The protagonist, Glaucus, represents the Greeks who have been subordinated by Rome, and his nemesis Arbaces the still older culture of Egypt. Olinthus is the chief representative of the nascent Christian religion, which is presented favourably but not uncritically. The Witch of Vesuvius, though she has no supernatural powers, shows Bulwer-Lytton's interest in the occult—a theme which would emerge in his later writing, particularly \"The Coming Race\".\n\nA popular sculpture by American sculptor Randolph Rogers, \"Nydia, the Blind Flower Girl of Pompeii\" (1856), was based on a character from the book.\n\n\nPompeii, A.D. 79. Athenian nobleman Glaucus arrives in the bustling and gaudy Roman town and quickly falls in love with the beautiful Greek Ione. Ione's former guardian, the malevolent Egyptian sorcerer Arbaces, has designs on Ione and sets out to destroy their budding happiness. Arbaces has already ruined Ione's sensitive brother Apaecides by luring him to join the vice-ridden priesthood of Isis. The blind slave Nydia is rescued from her abusive owners, Burbo and Stratonice, by Glaucus, for whom she secretly pines. Arbaces horrifies Ione by declaring his love for her, and flying into a rage when she refuses him. Glaucus and Apaecides rescue her from his grip, but Arbaces is struck down by an earthquake, a sign of Vesuvius' coming eruption.\n\nGlaucus and Ione exult in their love, much to Nydia's torment, while Apaecides finds a new religion in Christianity. Nydia unwittingly helps Julia, a rich young woman who has eyes for Glaucus, obtain a love potion from Arbaces to win Glaucus's love. But the love potion is really a poison that will turn Glaucus mad. Nydia steals the potion and administers it; Glaucus drinks only a small amount and begins raving wildly. Apaecides and Olinthus, an early Christian, determine to publicly reveal the deception of the cult of Isis. Arbaces, recovered from his wounds, overhears and stabs Apaecides to death; he then pins the crime on Glaucus, who has stumbled onto the scene. Arbaces has himself declared the legal guardian of Ione, who is convinced that Arbaces is her brother's murderer, and imprisons her at his mansion. He also imprisons Nydia, who discovers that there is an eyewitness to the murder who can prove Glaucus's innocence—the priest Calenus, who is yet a third prisoner of Arbaces. She smuggles a letter to Glaucus's friend Sallust, begging him to rescue them.\n\nGlaucus is convicted of the murder of Apaecides, Olinthus of heresy, and their sentence is to be fed to wild cats in the amphitheatre. All Pompeii gathers in the amphitheatre for the bloody gladiatorial games. Just as Glaucus is led into the arena with the lion–who, distressed by awareness of the coming eruption, spares his life and returns to his cage—Sallust bursts into the arena and reveals Arbaces's plot. The crowd demands that Arbaces be thrown to the lion, but it is too late: Vesuvius begins to erupt. Ash and stone rain down, causing mass panic. Glaucus rescues Ione from the house of Arbaces, but in the chaotic streets they meet Arbaces, who tries to seize Ione but is killed by a lightning strike. Nydia leads Glaucus and Ione to safety on a ship in the Bay of Naples, as because of her blindness she used to going about in utter darkness while sighted people are made helpless in the cloud of volcanic dust. The next morning she commits suicide by quietly slipping into the sea; death is preferable to the agony of her unrequited love for Glaucus.\n\nTen years pass, and Glaucus writes to Sallust, now living in Rome, of his and Ione's happiness in Athens. They have built Nydia a tomb and adopted Christianity.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860425", "title": "List of South African provinces by population density", "text": "List of South African provinces by population density\n\nSince the election of 27 April 1994, South Africa has been divided into nine provinces. They vary widely in population density, from the highly urbanized Gauteng with nearly 700 people per square kilometre, to the mostly-desert Northern Cape with less than four people per square kilometre. The following table shows the provincial population density according to the 2011 National Census.\n\nSince the creation of the current provinces in 1994 there have been three censuses, in 1996, 2001 and 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860426", "title": "Spiral dance", "text": "Spiral dance\n\nThe spiral dance, also called the grapevine dance and the weaver’s dance, is a traditional group dance practiced in Neopaganism in the United States, especially in feminist Wicca and the associated \"Reclaiming\" movement. \nIt is designed to emphasize \"community and rebirth\", and is also used \"to raise power in a ritual\".\n\nThe spiral dance is a central ritual dance to Reclaiming Witches. The first spiral dance was performed in Berkeley, CA, and was performed in a ritual intended to meld art, music, and politics as well as to celebrate the publication of \"The Spiral Dance\" by Starhawk. It turned into a yearly ritual, although a large portion of the politics were removed for later versions of the ritual and it currently exists as a Samhain celebration to honor the dead and celebrate rebirth.\n\nThe spiral dance usually involves a drumming group and a chant or song in addition to the dancers. All members present hold hands and follow a leader in a counter-clockwise motion using a grapevine step. As the leader comes near closing the circle, he or she whips around and begins moving clockwise while facing the rest of the dancers. By continuing this formation, every dancer in the line will eventually be face to face with every other dancer.\n\nIn some close-knit circles, where people are comfortable with the idea, a kiss is given to each person at the moment they pass each other in the dance. In some cases kissing may be discouraged during large or public rituals, due to disruptions of the rhythm of the dance.\n\nThe 1990s adventure game \"\" depicts Maid Marian as a forest priestess whose duties include, among other things, a one-person spiral dance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860429", "title": "Matsudono Motofusa", "text": "Matsudono Motofusa\n\nThough wielding great power as \"sesshō\" and \"kampaku\", Motofusa was prevented from becoming the head of the Fujiwara family by the political maneuvers of Taira no Kiyomori. An incident in 1170, while Motofusa was on his way to the Hōjuji Palace, further cemented his rivalry with the Taira clan. The Regent, along with a large retinue, was making his way to the palace for a ceremony which the cloistered Emperor Go-Shirakawa was supposed to attend, when a young boy, Taira no Sukemori refused to make way for him and his retinue. As a result, the Regent's men smashed Koremori's carriage and humiliated him. Koremori was a grandson of Kiyomori and so, after a few failed attempts at reprisal, followers of Taira no Shigemori (Sukemori's father) attacked the Regent's men on their way to a solemn ceremony, dragging them from their horses and humiliating them. These events, while seemingly minor on the surface, led to a rift between Emperor Go-Shirakawa and the Taira, and therefore to closer relations between Go-Shirakawa and the Minamoto, enemies of the Taira.\n\nHe is the maternal grandfather of the founder of Sōtō Zen Buddhism in Japan, Eihei Dōgen.\n\nIn 1179, he ordained as a Buddhist monk and took the Dharma name Zenkan (善観). When he died in 1230, he was given the posthumous Buddhist names Nakayamain (中山院) and Bodaiin (菩提院).\n\n"}
{"id": "1860432", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860432", "title": "Grey Eye Glances", "text": "Grey Eye Glances\n\nGrey Eye Glances is an American band from the Philadelphia area. \n\nTheir name is a quote from Edgar Allan Poe's poem \"To One in Paradise\".\n\n\n\nKeith, Nobel & O'Dell began playing together in the early 1990s, and quickly amassed a dedicated following by performing their original material at Borders bookstores up and down the East Coast. \n\nThey were originally named Sojourn and released two albums (Songs of Leaving and Further On) but had to surrender the name to another group with an earlier claim.\n\nTheir following helped foster sales of two independently released albums, \"Songs of Leaving\" and \"Further On\" for their self-owned label, Sojourn Hills Records. In 1996, they signed with Mercury Records and released \"Eventide\" (1997) and \"Painted Pictures\" (1998). An additional EP sold exclusively on the internet, entitled \"One Day Soon,\" was the band's last release on Mercury Records before it was merged into a larger label. \n\nTo ensure their continued growth, the band funded their purchase of back rights to material produced while they were with Mercury by releasing a four-CD special compilation of rare (the \"Red\" and \"Green\" albums) and live material (the 2-disc \"Grey Album\") that was sold via the internet to their most dedicated fans in 2000.\n\nIn April 2010 the band began recording their follow-up album to A Little Voodoo, but the record was not completed.\nBrett Kull and Paul Ramsey are also in the progrock group echolyn, having first met Grey Eye Glances in Nashville while recording their As The World album.\n\nIn February 2011, Jennifer Nobel decided to retire from Grey Eye Glances, and was replaced by Lindsey McKay, from Lansdale, Pa., and a former American Idol contestant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860451", "title": "Poppet", "text": "Poppet\n\nIn folk magic and witchcraft, a poppet (also known as poppit, moppet, mommet and pippy) is a doll made to represent a person, for casting spells on that person or to aid that person through magic. They are occasionally found lodged in chimneys. These dolls may be fashioned from such materials as a carved root, grain or corn shafts, a fruit, paper, wax, a potato, clay, branches, or cloth stuffed with herbs with the intent that any actions performed upon the effigy will be transferred to the subject based on sympathetic magic. Poppets are also used as kitchen witch figures.\n\nThe word \"poppet\" is an older spelling of \"puppet\", from Middle English \"popet\", meaning a small child or a doll. In British English it continues to hold this meaning. \"Poppet\" is also a chiefly British term of endearment or diminutive referring to a young woman or girl amongst urban populaces, much like the words \"dear\" or \"sweetie.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1860456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860456", "title": "Neustadt, Ontario", "text": "Neustadt, Ontario\n\nNeustadt is a community in the municipality of West Grey in Grey County in southern Ontario, Canada. The village is located south of Hanover on Grey Road 10 and north of Guelph, Ontario and Kitchener, Ontario. Neustadt is a rural Ontario village with German roots and a village history associated with farming culture. In their April 2000 edition, Harrowsmith Magazine named Neustadt one of Canada's ten prettiest villages as evidenced by the historic 19th century Victorian farmhouses highlighting Gothic Revival architecture. Neustadt has also been featured in Country Living.\n\nThe village’s name, Neustadt, is of German origin and it translates to “new town”. It was founded in 1856 by \"David Winkler\", a settler from Germany. He purchased 400 acres from the government, laid out the town-site, dammed Meux Creek and completed a sawmill. A flour mill and grist mill were also erected near the dam the following year. Many other German-speaking settlers began arriving immediately.\n\nDavid Winkler also became the founder of many other institutions. He opened the first post office in 1857, and acted as postmaster, a position he held until 1878. Later he became a Justice of the Peace and eventually, Reeve of Normanby Township. In 1870, Winkler lost a leg in a runaway horse accident and died seven years later.\n\nJohn Weinert, a saddle maker from Prussia, moved into Neustadt in 1859 and proceeded to establish a tannery on the north side of William Street. By 1861, he had added a boot and shoe factory and soon was supplying footwear to the settlers. As craftsman flocked to the area, Neustadt soon attracted one Henry Huether, a German immigrant from Baden, Germany. Huether first constructed a wooden frame Brewery until a fire in 1859 destroyed it. The brewery was reconstructed in fieldstone and reopened in 1869. At that time, the population was 500, primarily German-speaking.\n\nThe brewery continued to be open and successful until 1916 when it became a creamery. For many years it remained empty, being used by several community groups as variously a dance hall and farmer's market, until 1997 when it was reopened as Neustadt Springs Brewery; which currently brews ten brands of beer.\n\nIn the early 1880s, the village saw its peak of development. The opening of a modern school and several new churches, businesses, and industries lead to a growth in population. Years later, small businesses, farm equipment dealer, creameries, woolen mills, egg grading stations, some stores and later banks began to vanish. Each closure was critical to the village. Fewer attractions meant fewer visitors; the economy and population soon began to decline. John George Diefenbaker who would later become Prime Minister, was born here in 1895 but his family moved away in 1903.\n\nIn 2000, the Village of Neustadt with the Townships of Bentinck, Glenelg and Normanby agreed to form the Municipality of West Grey.\nNeustadt has an array of historical sites located both in and out of the village. Throughout the area lie local fieldstone farmhouses, schools and churches, many of them built at the villages founding decades.\n\nIn addition to the collection of fieldstone farmhouses, churches and school, the village is also known for its Neustadt Springs Brewery, a member of the Ontario Craft Brewers association. The current Neustadt Springs Brewery took over the original Crystal Springs Brewery building which was first built in 1859 by Henry Huether, an immigrant from Baden Germany who helped to settle the village by employing and bringing over forty highly qualified stonemasons. Neustadt Springs Brewery has won awards for their products almost every year since 1999 and has been recognized as one of the three most popular tourist attractions in Grey county. The building is of note for its fieldstone architecture and a remaining section of subterranean stone tunnels that at one time existed below the high street.\n\nAnother attraction in the village includes the family home of the late 13th Prime Minister of Canada, John Diefenbaker.\n\nThe municipality of West Grey Ontario and the village of Neustadt offer a wide variety of attractions and activities for tourists; it provides many services to area residents, including a Library, roads maintenance, parks and recreation. The village has a wide variety of garage sales and specialty shops selling antiques, fabrics, pottery, handmade items, primitives, etc. Some of the most common places visited are the Neustadt Springs Brewery, It’s my pleasure…Baking Sweet and Savory shop, Neustadt Lion’s Park, the historic buildings of the Neustadt Public Library and the 150-year-old fieldstone St. Paul’s Normanby Church. The Village also hosts annual events such as the Fall fair in September, the Fall Craft Fair in November and the Santa Claus Parade in December.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860458", "title": "Horace Wilson", "text": "Horace Wilson\n\nHorace Wilson may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860461", "title": "USS McDermut (DD-262)", "text": "USS McDermut (DD-262)\n\nUSS \"McDermut\" (DD-262) was a in service with the United States Navy from 1919 to 1929. She was scrapped in 1932.\n\nThe \"Clemson\" class was a repeat of the preceding although more fuel capacity was added. The ships displaced at standard load and at deep load. They had an overall length of , a beam of and a draught of . They had a crew of 6 officers and 108 enlisted men.\n\nPerformance differed radically between the ships of the class, often due to poor workmanship. The \"Clemson\" class was powered by two steam turbines, each driving one propeller shaft, using steam provided by four water-tube boilers. The turbines were designed to produce a total of intended to reach a speed of . The ships carried a maximum of of fuel oil which was intended gave them a range of at .\n\nThe ships were armed with four 4-inch (102 mm) guns in single mounts and were fitted with two 1-pounder guns for anti-aircraft defense. In many ships a shortage of 1-pounders caused them to be replaced by 3-inch (76 mm) guns. Their primary weapon, though, was their torpedo battery of a dozen 21 inch (533 mm) torpedo tubes in four triple mounts. They also carried a pair of depth charge rails. A \"Y-gun\" depth charge thrower was added to many ships.\n\n\"McDermut\", named for David McDermut was laid down 20 April 1918 by Bethlehem Shipbuilding Corporation, Squantum, Massachusetts; launched 6 August 1918; sponsored by Mrs. Eugene G. Grace; and commissioned 27 March 1919, Commander Chester L. Hand in command. Assigned to the Atlantic Fleet, \"McDermut\" departed Boston, Massachusetts 28 May for Brest, France. She returned to the east coast 24 July only to sail for the west coast in the fall, arriving at San Diego, California the day before Christmas. During the next 8 and a half years, with few exceptions, she operated in the eastern Pacific, steaming along the coast from Panama to Canada, and among the Hawaiian Islands. In 1924, she had a small part in the silent film \"The Navigator\", starring Buster Keaton and Kathryn McGuire.\n\nIn 1924 and 1927 she transited the Panama Canal for abbreviated duties in the Caribbean and Gulf of Mexico and in 1925 took part in a good will visit to Samoa, Australia, and New Zealand. On 22 March 1927 \"McDermut\", returning from a cruise to Panama, arrived at the San Diego Destroyer Base, where she decommissioned 22 May 1929. Struck from the Naval Register 11 November 1931, she was scrapped and sold, 25 February 1932, in accordance with the terms of the London Treaty for Naval Disarmament.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860462", "title": "Howard Becker", "text": "Howard Becker\n\nHoward Becker may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1860464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860464", "title": "Manotick", "text": "Manotick\n\nManotick ( ) is a community in Rideau-Goulbourn Ward in the rural south part of the City of Ottawa, Ontario, Canada. It is a suburb of the city, located on the Rideau River, immediately south of the suburbs Barrhaven and Riverside South, about from downtown Ottawa. It was founded by Moss Kent Dickinson in 1864. He named the village 'Manotick', after the Algonquin word for 'island'. It has been part of the City of Ottawa since amalgamation in 2001. Prior to that, it was located in Rideau Township. According to the Canada 2016 Census, Manotick had a population of 4,486.\n\nThe village of Long Island Locks was first settled in 1833. In the 1830s, a small settlement formed in the area of the newly constructed Long Island locks on the Rideau Canal, but there was no development in the area of present-day Manotick. A post office was established in 1854.\n\nIn 1859, when a bulkhead was constructed across the west branch of the Rideau River, entrepreneur Moss Kent Dickinson and his partner Joseph Merrill Currier obtained the water rights and constructed a stone mill, on the shores of the Rideau River. The flour mill, as well as a carding mill, sawmill and a bung factory, also built by Dickinson, helped spur the development of the settlement. The flour mill was purchased in 1946 by Harry Watson and renamed Watson's Mill. It survives today as a working museum with an operational grist mill.\n\nM. K. Dickinson, Esq., established the Long Island Flouring Mills in 1860, which had the capacity of grinding one hundred barrels of flour per diem; the buildings were substantially built of stone. The saw mill, built by M. K. Dickinson, Esq., employed twelve men, and turned out about two million feet of sawn lumber per annum.\n\nDickinson House, built in 1863, was the first major building in Manotick. It served as a general store, bank, post office, and telegraph office. The Dickinson, Spratt, and Watson families, who owned/operated Watson’s Mill, used the house as their residence from 1870 to 1972. The house is currently furnished to give visitors an interpretation of what the space was like when the Dickinson family was in residence. It is included amongst other architecturally interesting and historically significant buildings in Doors Open Ottawa, alongside Watson's Mill. Open Doors Ottawa sometimes coincides with Dickinson Days, which is Manotick’s annual festival celebrating the Founder of the village.\n\nBy 1866, Long Island Locks was a post village with a population of 100 of the township of Gloucester, on the Rideau canal, seven miles from Gloucester station, on the Ottawa and Prescott railway, and 15 miles from Ottawa. The village contained two general stores, and a number of mechanics. There were two church buildings here, one occupied\nalternately by the Presbyterian congregation and the English Church, and the other by the Wesleyan Methodists.\n\nBy 1866, Manotick was a post village with a population of 100 of the township of North Gower, on the Rideau river, five miles from Kelly's station on the Ottawa and Prescott Railway, and 17 miles from Ottawa. There was excellent water-power supplied by the Rideau canal. Mails tri-weekly. The Loyal Orange Lodge, No. 477, mets in Orange Hall, in Manotick village, on the first Friday in each month.\n\nThe original St. James Anglican Church was built of wood in a Norman style in 1876, on land donated by Moss Kent Dickinson. When a larger church was built in 1985, the original style and appearance, including a Norman tower, the original stained glass windows, plaques and much of the other furnishings were maintained. The church was included amongst other architecturally interesting and historically significant buildings in Doors Open Ottawa, held June 2 and 3, 2012.\n\nManotick was host to a Royal Canadian Navy (RCN) experimental ionospheric laboratory often referred to as the RPL, or the Radio Propagation Laboratory . It was located on the Prescott Highway.\n\nThe RPL evolved from Section 6 of the Operational Intelligence Centre (OIC/6) of the RCN during WW II. It originally occupied small huts on the Prescott Highway, which, in the years 1944-47 housed a naval High Frequency radio station, operating under the call sign CFF. The station received and transmitted messages between Naval Service Headquarters, Allied Authorities, ships at sea, and frequently intercepted enemy transmissions. A name plate now marks the site, which is located south of the Experimental Farm's (Ottawa) arboretum, between the Rideau Canal and the Prescott Highway.\n\nSunTech Greenhouses LTD, a Hydroponic Greenhouse covering 2.3 acres was constructed in 1999 on a ninety acre lot. An additional twelve thousand square feet was added in the spring of 2001, bringing the greenhouse acreage to 2.5 acres. Since then, the infrastructure was increased by 1.5 acres in 2012, bringing the total greenhouse surface to 4 acres.\n\nAs commercial traffic on the Rideau became less important, the population in the village declined. The population in the village rebounded as Manotick came to be viewed by some as a bedroom community for Ottawa, joining the City of Ottawa in 2001.\n\nWith perceived overdevelopment of housing in south Ottawa, including the rapid growth of Barrhaven, Manotick strives to maintain its character and property values by carefully managing growth and working closely with developers. .\n\n\nOn the first Friday and Saturday of June, the people of Manotick congregate in the heart of Manotick around Dickinson Square to celebrate Dickinson Days. The festival is named after Moss Kent Dickinson, who operated Watson's Mill (then as Long Island Flouring Mill) and was responsible for founding Manotick. This spring festival, organized by local organizations such as the Kiwanis Club, the BIA, and Watson’s Mill, usually includes activities such as a parade, pancake breakfast, arts and crafts sales, wagon rides, music, dance and drama performances. The celebration coincides with \"Pioneer Days\", organized by the staff and volunteers of Watson's Mill.\n\nDickinson Days usually coincides with Doors Open Ottawa, where many local buildings, such as churches and government buildings, are open to the public for one day a year.\n\nWatson's Mill is Manotick's most recognized landmark. Its image is used as a symbol for the village. It is the only working museum in the Ottawa area and one of very few operating industrial grist mills in North America. Indeed, Watson's Mill still sells stone-ground whole wheat flour which is made on site.\n\nMoss Kent Dickinson and Joseph Merrill Currier founded the mill as the Long Island Flouring Mills in 1860. It was one of a series of mills constructed in the area using power from the Rideau Canal. It earned its current name when it was purchased by Harry Watson in 1946. Watson was the last owner to operate the mill at an industrial level. When the Rideau Valley Conservation Authority bought the mill in 1972, it was developed into a museum.\n\nThe mill is also well known for its ghost story. The legend is that Ann Currier, wife of Joseph Currier, haunts the mill, following her death in a tragic accident there in 1861.\n\nWatson's Mill is open to the public during the summer months and hosts a variety of events, including milling demonstrations every Sunday.\n\nIn 2007, Minto Developments Inc. sought approval to construct a community of approximately 1800 new homes in Manotick. The number was later revised to 1400 in early 2008 through the Development Concept Plan process with the city of Ottawa and numerous public meetings and consultations with residents. The project drew concerns by residents in the area. In the opinion of some local residents, the Minto proposal went against the spirit and letter of the pre-existing Manotick's Secondary Plan. The Secondary Plan for the Village of Manotick was adopted by the City of Ottawa at amalgamation in 2001, providing for growth of only 250 houses by 2020. Residents cited that the project would double Manotick's population and that the current services and infrastructure will be insufficient to handle the population explosion. Some residents were also concerned that Manotick will lose its \"small town\" character. Villagers want future development direction to be decided by residents and their elected officials, not developers.\n\nOn April 24, 2007, the West Manotick Community Association (WMCA) organized a town hall meeting to discuss the issue of Minto's proposed development at the Manotick Arena. The event drew over 2000 citizens concerned about preserving the rural character and scale of Manotick and to ensure any future planning accounts for the rural nature of the village. During 2007 and 2008, the City of Ottawa, the WMCA and Minto all hosted several formal and informal public meetings to demonstrate changes and evolutions to the proposed Development Concept Plans and to encourage public debate. Changes to the plan were made by the developer through the process.\n\nIn 2008, the Ottawa City Council rejected Minto's proposed development, stating that Minto's plan did not comply with the City's Official Plan for Manotick, nor its Secondary Plan. Additionally, the City claimed that the proposed development did not match the village's \"rural character\". Minto appealed the council's decision, sending the matter to the Ontario Municipal Board (\"OMB\") in a seven-week hearing that ended in late January 2009. The OMB overruled the Ottawa City Council in a \"controversial\" decision to approve Minto's plans. The City of Ottawa requested a Leave to Appeal the OMB decision, with a hearing that took place on June 25, 2009.\n\nUltimately, extensive cooperation between Minto and the community resulted in an approved plan for the development, and the construction now is long underway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860469", "title": "Oomancy", "text": "Oomancy\n\nOomancy (sometimes ovomancy or ooscopy) refers to divination by eggs. An example would be the oracular reading (i.e., scrying) of the shapes that a separated egg white forms when dropped into hot water. This appears to be similar to methods of molten lead divination, which ascribe meaning to the shapes and forms into which hot lead solidifies.\n\nAlong with other young girls of Salem Village, Elizabeth Parris and Abigail Williams are known to have to played at reading omens by means of an egg and a mirror (or \"Venus glass\"): an apparently similar system of egg divination.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860470", "title": "Maria Hertogh", "text": "Maria Hertogh\n\nMaria Hertogh (born \"Huberdina Maria Hertogh\" on 24 March 1937 at Tjimahi, West Java, the Dutch East Indies), also known as Nadra binte Ma'arof and Natrah, was a Dutchwoman of Eurasian extraction and Malay upbringing, notable for being at the centre of the Maria Hertogh riots as a girl. \n\nThe riots took place between 11 and 13 December 1950 in Singapore, after a court decided that Maria should be taken from her Malay Muslim foster/adoptive mother's custody and given over to her Dutch Catholic birth parents. A protest by outraged Muslims escalated into a riot when images of her were published showing her kneeling before a statue of the Virgin Mary. 18 people were killed and 173 injured; many properties were also damaged.\n\nHuberdina Maria Hertogh was born on 24 March 1937 to a Dutch Catholic family living in Cimahi, near Bandung, Java, then a part of the Dutch East Indies (now Indonesia). \n\nHer birth father, Adrianus Petrus Hertogh, came to Java in the 1920s as a sergeant in the Royal Netherlands East Indies Army. In the early 1930s, he married Adeline Hunter, a Eurasian of Scottish-Javanese descent brought up in Java. Maria was baptised in the Roman Catholic Church of Saint Ignatius at Tjimahi on the 10th April by a Catholic priest.\n\nWhen World War II broke out, Adrianus Hertogh, as a sergeant in the Dutch Army, was captured by the Imperial Japanese Army and sent to a POW camp in Japan, where he was kept until 1945. Meanwhile, Adeline Hertogh stayed with her mother, Nor Louise, and her five children, among whom Maria was the third and youngest daughter. On 29 December 1942, Mrs. Hertogh gave birth to her sixth child, a boy. Three days later, Maria went to stay with Aminah binte Mohammad, a 42-year-old Malay woman from Kemaman, Terengganu, Malaya (now Malaysia) and a close friend of Nor Louise.\n\nAccording to Maria's birth mother, Adeline Hertogh, in testimony given in evidence before the court at the hearing in November 1950, she was persuaded by her mother after the birth of her sixth child to allow Maria to go and stay with Aminah in Bandung for three or four days. Consequently, Aminah arrived on the 1st January 1943 to fetch Maria. When the child was not returned, Mrs. Hertogh borrowed a bicycle on 6 January and set out to retrieve her. She claimed that she was stopped by a Japanese sentry on the outskirts of Bandung as she did not possess a pass and was therefore interned.\n\nFrom her internment camp, she smuggled a letter to her mother, requesting for her children to be sent to her. This Nor Louise did, but Maria was not among them. So Mrs. Hertogh asked her mother to fetch Maria from Aminah. Her mother later wrote and told her that Aminah wanted to keep Maria for two more days, after which she herself would bring the child to the camp. This did not materialise, and Mrs. Hertogh did not see Maria throughout her internment. After her release, she could find neither Maria nor Aminah.\n\nUpon arriving with Aminah, Maria was given the name Nadra binte Ma'arof. For unknown reasons her new family moved to Jakarta for a period before moving back to Bandung, where Aminah worked for the Japanese military police as an interpreter until the end of the war.\n\nIn 1947, fearing harm upon the family during the Indonesian National Revolution because Maria was a \"putih\" (\"white [child]\"), Aminah moved back to her hometown of Kampung Banggol in Kemaman, Terengganu. By then Maria was the same as any other Malay Muslim girl of her age: she spoke only Malay, wore Malay clothes and practised her religion devoutly.\n\nIn 1945, with the end of World War II, Sergeant Hertogh was released and returned to Java, where he reunited with his wife. The couple said that they enquired about Maria but could find neither her nor Aminah. They then returned to the Netherlands after requesting the Dutch authorities in Java and Singapore to try to trace the child. Investigations were then made by the Red Cross Society, the Indonesian Repatriation Service, the Royal Netherlands Army, and local police. Finally, in September 1949, Aminah and Maria were traced to the kampung in which they were living.\n\nNegotiations were opened to retrieve Maria in early 1950. The Dutch Consulate offered $500 to make up for Aminah's expenses in bringing up the girl for eight years. Aminah rejected the offer and refused to give up her foster daughter. Nonetheless, she was persuaded to travel with Maria to Singapore in April to discuss the issue with the Dutch Consul-General. However, Aminah could not be persuaded and the Consulate applied to the High Court of Singapore on 22 April for Maria to be delivered into the custody of the Social Welfare Department, pending further order. The Chief Justice heard the request the same day and approved the application \"ex parte\".\n\nThe next day, an officer from the department served the order on Aminah and took Maria away. After a routine medical examination at the Middle Road Hospital, she was admitted to the Girls Homecraft Centre at York Hill. From this point onwards, Maria had made it clear that she wanted to stay with Aminah and did not wish to be returned to her birth parents. Aminah contended that Adeline had given Maria over to her willingly, and this was supported by testimony of Soewaldi Hunter, Adeline's elder brother - who bore witness to the adoption. However, after a 15-minute hearing on 19 May, the High Court ruled that the custody of Maria be granted to the Hertoghs.\n\nAs Aminah and Maria exited the court via the back door, a car from the Consulate was waiting to take Maria away. Maria refused to enter the car and clung on to Aminah, both shouting in Malay that they would kill themselves rather than be separated. A large crowd quickly formed around the commotion. It was only after much persuasion that Aminah agreed to enter the car together with Maria and pay a visit to her lawyer, who explained that Maria had to be given up until an appeal was made. The duo then parted in tears, with Maria returned to York Hill for temporary safekeeping.\n\nMaria stayed at York Hill for two more months under a further order from the Chief Justice pending appeal, which was filed on 28 July. The verdict was an over-ruling of the earlier decision. Aside from the \"ex parte\" order to hand Maria to the Social Welfare Department, the Appellate Court found ambiguity in the Dutch Consul-General's representation of Maria's birth father, a rather minor and technical detail but apparently significant enough under the circumstance. Both Aminah and Maria were overjoyed.\n\nOn 1 August 1950, Maria was married by way of a \"nikah gantung\" (truncated marriage to be consummated when both parties were of the age of majority, valid under Islamic law) to 21-year-old Mansoor Adabi, a Kelantan-born teacher-in-training at the Bukit Panjang Government School. The marriage could have been a manoeuvre by Aminah to prevent further retrieval attempts by the Hertoghs, as Maria returned to live with Aminah after the wedding night and the new couple never consummated their marriage. Whether such speculation was true was unimportant in the subsequent development of events, in which Maria, a willing bride nonetheless, became the central figure.\n\nThe first challenges on the appropriateness of the marriage actually came from the Muslim community. On 10 August a Muslim leader wrote to The Straits Times, pointing out that although Islamic law permits the marriage of girls starting after puberty (which Maria had reached a year earlier), there were Muslim countries such as Egypt that legislated for a minimum marriage age of 16. He added, however, that it would not be in the interest of \"the friendly understanding... between Christians and Muslims\" to object to the marriage since it had already taken place. The latter view was held by the Muslim population at large, albeit in a more antagonistic mood against the Dutch and Europeans at large.\n\nMeanwhile, the Hertoghs had not given up legal pursuit to retrieve Maria. Only a day after the marriage, Aminah received the Hertoghs' representative lawyers from Kuala Lumpur. The lawyers delivered a letter demanding Maria's return by the 10th August, failing which legal action would be taken. Believing that the marriage settled the matter, Aminah and Mansoor both ignored the deadline. The Hertoghs did not. On the 26th August, an originating summons was taken out, under the Guardianship of Infants Ordinance, by the Hertoghs as plaintiffs against Aminah, Maria and Mansoor, who were all made defendants.\n\nThe hearing did not begin until 20 November. For four months, the matter hung in suspense. During this time, Maria rarely left her residence in the house of M.A. Majid, then president of the Muslim Welfare Association, because in her own words, she attracted \"too much attention\". Nevertheless, media coverage on the incident had grown to a global scale. Letters from Muslim organisations in Pakistan promising financial and other help arrived, some going so far as to declare any further move by the Dutch Government to separate the couple as \"an open challenge to the Muslim world\". Pledges of aid also came from Maria's native Indonesia and as far as Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe hearing finally opened, and Maria's natural mother, Adeline Hertogh travelled down to Singapore to attend. The judge, Justice Brown, delivered the verdict two weeks later. The marriage, instead of resolving the dispute, had instead complicated it. Justice Brown had two issues on his hand, namely the legality of the marriage and the custody of Maria. He held that the marriage was invalid because:\n\n\nHaving over-ruled the purported marriage, Justice Brown went on to deal with what he described as the \"most difficult\" question of custody. He noted that his duty to the law required him \"to have regard primarily to the welfare of the infant\". He believed this meant that he not only had to consider the current wishes of Maria, but also her future well-being. He stated:\n\nIt is natural that she should now wish to remain in Malaya among people whom she knows. But who can say that she will have the same views some years hence after her outlooks has been enlarged, and her contacts extended, in the life of the family to which she belongs?\n\nHe also noted that whatever the details of the contested initiation of the custody at the end of 1942 might be, Adrianus Hertogh had not been part of it and had not abrogated his parental rights. He therefore awarded the custody of Maria to the Hertoghs and ordered that she should be handed over to her mother with immediate effect.\n\nWhen policewomen came to take Maria away, she wept and clung to Aminah and Mansoor. Aminah fainted on the spot and a doctor standing by had to attend to her. Mansoor advised Maria to concede for the time being and promised that he and others would carry on the legal fight. Thus Maria allowed herself to be brought away into a car. Outside, the police, including a Gurkha Contingent, held back a crowd of several hundred.\n\nThe car delivered Maria to the Roman Catholic Convent of the Good Shepherd, run by the Sisters of the Good Shepherd, at Thomson Road. Mrs. Hertogh stayed at another address for a few days, from where she visited Maria daily, before moving into the convent herself. According to an official of the Netherlands Consulate-General, such arrangement was because of \"greater convenience\" while the stay of execution pending appeal was in effect. But it proved to be the spark that lit the fuse of the subsequent riots.\n\nFirst and foremost, the press was not barred from entering the convent grounds. Nor were they restricted in any way in their approach to the incident, which had been nothing shy of sensational. On the 5th December, the \"Singapore Tiger Standard\" published on its front page a photograph of Maria standing holding hands with the Reverend Mother. There were several more pictures on page 2, under the headline: \"Bertha knelt before Virgin Mary Statue\". The Malay press retorted. The \"Utusan Melayu\" published on 7 December three photographs of Maria weeping and being comforted by a nun, as well as articles about Maria's \"lonely and miserable\" life in the convent.\n\nThese pictures, whether presenting Maria as happy or sad, mostly showed Maria surrounded by symbols of Christian faith. The Muslims, who looked upon Maria as one of their own, were deeply offended by such pictures, not to mention the sensational reports, some of which explicitly labelled the case as a religious issue between Islam and Christianity.\n\nOn the 9th December, an organisation calling itself the Nadra Action Committee was formally constituted under the leadership of Karim Ghani, a Muslim political activist from Rangoon. The Committee solicited support among local Muslims by distributing free copies of its newspaper, the \"Dawn\" (not the \"Dawn\", an English paper published in Pakistan). Karim Ghani had also made an open speech at the Sultan Mosque on 8 December in which he mentioned jihad as a final resort.\n\nIn the light of these potent signs of a great disturbance, the Criminal Investigation Department sent a memo to the Colonial Secretary suggesting moving Maria back to York Hill to avoid further inciting Muslim anger. The Secretary did not agree on grounds that he had received no such representations from Muslim leaders, nor did he have the authority to remove Maria without further court orders – It cannot be said definitively that moving Maria out of the convent at such a late stage could have averted the riots.\n\nThe appeal hearing opened on the 11th December. Maria stayed at the convent and did not attend. Since early morning, crowds carrying banners and flags with star and crescent symbols began to gather around the Supreme Court. By noon, when the hearing eventually began, the restive crowd had grown to 2,000 to 3,000 in number. The court threw out the appeal within five minutes. The brevity of the hearing convinced the gathering that the colonial legal system was biased against Muslims. The riots erupted.\n\nThe riots continued for three days and a curfew was imposed for two weeks. The mob (largely consisting of Muslims) moved out to attack any Europeans and even Eurasians in sight. They overturned cars and burnt them. The police force, its lower ranks largely consisted of Malays who sympathised with the rioters' cause, were ineffective in quelling the riots. By nightfall the riots had spread to even the more remote parts of the island. Help from the British military was enlisted only at around 6:45 PM. Major-General Dunlop promptly deployed two Internal Security Battalions while calling in further reinforcements from Malaya. Meanwhile, various Muslim leaders appealed over the radio for the riots to cease.\n\nReinforcements arrived early on 12 December, but riotous incidents continued on that day. The troops and police only managed to regain control of the situation by noon on 13 December. In total, 18 people were killed, among whom were seven Europeans or Eurasians, two police officers, and nine rioters shot by the police or military, 173 were injured, many of them seriously, 119 vehicles were damaged, and at least two buildings were set on fire. Subsequently, two weeks of 24-hour curfew were imposed, and it was a long time before complete law and order was re-established.\n\nAfter the riot, the police set up a special investigation unit which detained 778 people, among them Karim Ghani. Out of these, 403 were released unconditionally and 106 were released on various conditions (they generally had to report to the police station monthly and adhere to a curfew after dark). The police eventually brought rioting charges against 200 people, of whom 25 were acquitted, 100 were convicted, 62 were referred to the Enquiry Advisory Committee, and seven were brought to trial at the Assize Court for wanton killing and five of them were subsequently sentenced to death on the gallows. One of the five that was sentenced to the gallows was A.K.S. Othman Ghani, a respectable Indian businessman from Madras, the founder of the once famous Jubilee Cafe and Restaurant.\n\nOn 25 August 1951, Tunku Abdul Rahman, who would later become the first Prime Minister of Malaysia, took over as the president of UMNO, a Malay-centric party. He immediately set out to save the five on death row. Having garnered support from the Muslim population, Abdul Rahman placed pressure on the authorities, who finally gave in. The British government was expecting their role as the colonial master to end very soon and did not wish to leave behind grim memories. The death sentences for all five were commuted to life imprisonment.\n\nA Commission of Inquiry was appointed by Governor Franklin Gimson. It was headed by Sir Lionel Leach, a member of the Judicial Committee of the Privy Council. The Commission placed large blame on the police command for not having anticipated the violence from many indicators between 2 and 11 December. Furthermore, when the riots first started, the police failed to act promptly to disperse the crowd. The Gurkha Contingent standing by was not put into action, while too much dependence was placed on Malay policemen, many of whom defected or at least hesitated to carry out their duties. The British House of Commons criticised the colonial government for its poor handling of the situation.\n\nThe present-day Government of Singapore also attributes the tragedy to the insensitivity of the colonial government towards the racial and religious feelings of the locals. It cites the incident as a vital lesson learnt in the importance of racial and religious understanding and harmony, as well as a case for imposing a certain degree of government control on the media, especially when racial or religious issues are implicated.\n\nOn the night the riots broke out, Maria was moved out of the convent, where the rioters tried twice to march on and were only kept back by the police. Plans were made at York Hill to receive her but she was instead sent to Saint John's Island, an offshore island 4 miles south of the main island of Singapore. The next day, Maria was taken by Adeline to the Netherlands by aeroplane. After landing in Schiphol Airport, they quickly proceeded to the Hertogh home on the outskirts of Bergen op Zoom.\n\nAt first, Maria could only talk to Adeline, the only one in the family who understood Malay. She demanded rice with every meal, resenting the western diet, and continued to say her Muslim prayers five times a day. In addition, a policeman in plain clothes was assigned to escort her whenever she left the house, for fear of possible kidnappers who might take her back to Singapore, following reported sighting of \"oriental strangers\" around town. The house was also placed under surveillance.\n\nSlowly, Maria began to adjust to her new environment. A nun came to the house daily to teach her Dutch until she was proficient enough to attend a local convent school. She also began to attend Mass with her family. Back in Singapore, Aminah and Mansoor had apparently given up hope of retrieving Maria after leave to appeal to the Privy Council was not granted. Earlier interest of the several Muslim groups involved had also gradually died down.\n\nOn 20 April 1956, Maria married Johan Gerardus \"Joep\" Wolkefeld, a 21-year-old Dutch Catholic. On the 15th February 1957, she gave birth to a son, the first of ten children. However, Maria did not seem to be contented. As she told \"De Telegraaf\", she often had rows with Adeline, who lived nearby. She also said she still longed for her Malayan homeland. Johan and Mansoor began corresponding via letters. Both expressed a wish for Maria to travel to Malaya to visit the aged Aminah, but such a trip was never made due primarily to financial difficulties. Aminah died in 1976 and Mansoor would die of a heart attack in 1988.\n\nOn 16 August 1976, Maria found herself on trial in a Dutch court charged with plotting to murder her husband. She admitted in court that she had been thinking about leaving her husband but was afraid to start divorce proceedings in case she lost custody of her children. She came into contact with two regular customers at her husband's café bar. The trio bought a revolver and recruited a fourth accomplice to carry out the actual murder. However, the last member got cold feet and gossiped about the murder plan. The police quickly learnt of it and arrested all four conspirators.\n\nAt her trial, Maria was quoted as saying: \"I was a slave in my own home. I lived in a prison. I was not allowed to do anything. Joep [Johan] kicked up a row even if I went to drink a coffee somewhere.\"\n\nIn her defence, Maria's lawyers brought up her background, which the court acknowledged. With this in mind, and because the plot was never executed and there was no proof that she offered any inducement to the other three, the three-man bench acquitted Maria. Meanwhile, Maria had also filed for divorce on the grounds of the irreparable breakdown of her marriage. Several days before Christmas 1979, Maria married, for the third time, one of her co-conspirators, Antonius Christianus \"Tom\" Ballermans. Their domestic life was happy at first; however, three years into the marriage, Ballermans' behaviour became troublesome and worrying. He'd started drinking in excess. Suspicious, Maria followed him to a cafetaria, where she discovered he was having an affair. They would divorce in 1983.\n\nAfter her divorce from Ballermans, Maria moved to Zuidsingel, a neighbourhood not far from Bergen op Zoom. There, she reconnected with an old friend who offered her employment at her Indonesian food stall at a night market. In early 1984, she was admitted to hospital due to a stroke resulting from blocked arteries. After being kept for a week, she was discharged and returned to her job at the stall.\n\nIt was at the same stall that Maria met Benjamin Leopold Pichel, a naturalised Dutch citizen of Indonesian descent. Pichel was originally from Ambon, and a sailor by profession. That same year, they married and emigrated to the United States, intent on opening an Indonesian restaurant there. They elected to settle in Lake Tahoe, Nevada. Lacking employment authorisation from the Immigration and Naturalization Service, Maria could only work ill-paid odd jobs such as babysitter or chambermaid.\n\nIn 1998, Maria returned to Kemaman for Hari Raya, and reunited with her adoptive elder sister, Kamariah Mohd Dahan (of Japanese descent). It was their first meeting in 48 years; unfortunately, it would be the only time they were able to see each other again before Kamariah died of leukaemia. Sometime between 2001 and 2003, Maria left Pichel and returned to the Netherlands, settling in Huijbergen. The two were officially divorced in 2004.\n\nOn 8 July 2009, Maria died at her house in Huijbergen from leukaemia at the age of 72, the same cause of death as her sister Kamariah. She donated her body to scientific research.\n\nIn 2014, Singaporean channel Channel NewsAsia, in cooperation with Monsoon Pictures, broadcast a five-part documentary about the tumultuous era of the 1950s and 1960s in Singapore called \"Days of Rage\". In part, it featured the Maria Hertogh riots, including exclusive interviews with Maria herself and Kamariah prior to their deaths. Maria's son and two daughters spoke about witnessing their mother's frosty relationship with Adeline, and her struggle to come to terms with her painful childhood. Her son testified that she was not happy and felt betrayed. The siblings also paid a visit to Kemaman and met several elderly \"kampung\" residents who remembered the young Maria, then known to them as Nadra.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860493", "title": "Neutrogena", "text": "Neutrogena\n\nNeutrogena is an American brand of skin care, hair care and cosmetics which is headquartered in Los Angeles, California. According to product advertising at their website, Neutrogena products are distributed in more than 70 countries.\nNeutrogena was founded in 1930 by Emanuel Stolaroff, and was originally a cosmetics company named Natone. It is now part of the US-based Johnson & Johnson conglomerate, which bought the independent company in 1994.\n\nIn 1930, Emanuel Stolaroff started a small company called Natone. Soon, it grew into a larger business, and he started expanding it into retail markets. Stolaroff met Belgian chemist Edmond Fromont in 1954, and acquired the rights to distribute his patented formula of a mild clear soap that cleared the skin, without drying it, in the US. By then, Lloyd Cotsen had entered the Stolaroff family by marrying his daughter Joanne Stolaroff. \nIn 1962, the company name was officially changed to Neutrogena Corporation; Cotsen became president in 1967.\n\nThe company listed publicly on the NASDAQ in 1973, with a market value of $1.2 million. Cotsen started marketing soap through 2 major channels: dermatologists and luxury hotels. Neutrogena managed to stay clear of any major pricing wars, like those of other big corporations of that generation. It launched product lines in acne and anti-aging areas. In 1982, profits reached US$3 million, and Cotsen was named the CEO.\n\nIn 1994, Johnson & Johnson acquired Neutrogena for $924 million, at a price of $35.25 per share. Johnson & Johnson's international network helped Neutrogena boost its sales and enter newer markets including India, South Africa, and China. Priced at a premium, Neutrogena products are distributed in over 70 countries. The company has major subsidiaries in Canada, United Kingdom, South Korea and India.\n"}
{"id": "1860501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860501", "title": "Equal-Armed Cross", "text": "Equal-Armed Cross\n\nEqual-Armed Cross, also referred to as the square cross, the balanced cross, and the peaceful cross, is a name for the Greek Cross when this is found in ancient cultures, predating Christianity.\n\nIt is often interpreted as representing either the four seasons, four winds, four elements, or some other aspect of physical nature.\n\nAn equal-armed cross (often within a circle) represents the planet Earth in traditional astrological/astronomical symbols. The cross could also be used to represent the natural union between male and female.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860503", "title": "The Apotheosis of Washington", "text": "The Apotheosis of Washington\n\nThe Apotheosis of Washington is the fresco painted by Greek-Italian artist Constantino Brumidi in 1865 and visible through the oculus of the dome in the rotunda of the United States Capitol Building. The fresco is suspended above the rotunda floor and covers an area of . The figures painted are up to tall and are visible from the floor below. The dome was completed in 1863, and Brumidi painted it over the course of 11 months at the end of the Civil War. He was paid $40,000 ($ in today's funds) for the fresco.\n\nBrumidi had worked for three years in the Vatican under Pope Gregory XVI, and served several aristocrats as an artist for palaces and villas, including the prince Torlonia. He immigrated to the United States in 1852, and spent much of the last 25 years of his life working in the Capitol. In addition to \"The Apotheosis of Washington\" he designed the Brumidi Corridors.\n\n\"The Apotheosis of Washington\" depicts George Washington sitting amongst the heavens in an exalted manner, or in literal terms, ascending and becoming a god (apotheosis). Washington, the first U.S. president and commander-in-chief of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, is allegorically represented, surrounded by figures from classical mythology. Washington is draped in purple, a royal color, with a rainbow arch at his feet, flanked by the goddess Victoria (draped in green, using a horn) to his left and the Goddess of Liberty to his right. Liberty wears a red Phrygian cap, symbolizing emancipation, from a Roman tradition where sons leaving the home and/or slaves being emancipated would be given a red cap. She holds a fasces in her right hand and an open book in the other.\n\nForming a circle between Liberty and Victory are 13 maidens, each with a star above her head, representing the original 13 colonies. Several of the maidens have their backs turned to Washington, said to represent the colonies that had seceded from the Union at the time of painting. Upside down above Washington is the banner \"E Pluribus Unum\" meaning \"out of many, one\".\n\nSurrounding Washington, the two goddesses and the 13 maidens are six scenes lining the perimeter, each representing a national concept allegorically: from directly below Washington in the center and moving clockwise, \"War,\" \"Science,\" \"Marine,\" \"Commerce,\" \"Mechanics,\" and \"Agriculture\". The perimeter scenes are not fully visible from the floor of the Capitol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860525", "title": "Horace Wilson (civil servant)", "text": "Horace Wilson (civil servant)\n\nSir Horace John Wilson, (23 August 1882 – 19 May 1972) was a senior British government official who had a key role with government of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain in the appeasement period just prior to the Second World War.\n\nSon of furniture dealer Henry Wilson and Elizabeth Ann Smith, Horace John Wilson was born in Bournemouth on 23 August 1882. For his education he attended Kurnella School in the town before graduating to the London School of Economics.\n\nJoining the old Second Division of the British Civil Service in 1900 his abilities came to the notice of senior officials. During the First World War, 1915 saw Wilson made secretary to the Committee on Production and the Special Arbitration Tribunal. At the end of hostilities in 1918 Wilson moved to the new Ministry of Labour as part of the Conciliation Department. There he worked alongside David Shackleton. He was appointed Permanent Secretary to the ministry in 1921. It was at this time he developed a reputation for resolving industrial disputes, a high point in this regard was his handling of the cotton crisis on 1929. One great asset brought to bear in the arbitration of the disputes was reportedly his adherence to impartiality which was trusted by both employers and employees alike. Success with the ministry caused Wilson to be appointed Chief Industrial Advisor to the Government in 1930 by Prime Minister Ramsay MacDonald. Wilson's reorganisation of the cotton industry in Britain was the highlight of this part of his career.\n\nAt this point Wilson was to display his abilities on the international stage when travelling to the Imperial Economic Conference in Ottawa, Canada. Wilson was the most senior official travelling with the British delegation to the conference. There he impressed with his grasp of the subject and was said to have been largely responsible for the agreements reached at the conference. He returned from Canada to an appointment as a Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George.\n\nWilson's career saw several official awards. He was made a Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 1918, Companion of the Order of the Bath in 1920, Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in 1924, Knight Grand Cross of the Order of St Michael and St George in 1933, and finally Knight Grand Cross of the Order of the Bath in 1937. Under the Premiership of Stanley Baldwin, in 1935, Wilson was afforded a secondment described as 'for service with the Prime Minister'. This continued with ascent on Neville Chamberlain to the office in 1937.\n\nLord Woolton recalled in his memoir that Wilson, \"found himself enjoying tremendous power – in fact a power unequalled by any member of the Cabinet except the Prime Minister.\" On another occasion Woolton noted that Wilson left him after a dinner early saying, \"I must go and look after my master: he's feeling very lonely just now\".\nIndeed, Chamberlain's biographer Robert Self noted that the men \"enjoyed the sort of unparalleled intimacy only possible among truly kindred spirits.\"\n\n10 March 1938 saw Wilson meet with , the counsellor at Germany's London Embassy. Wilson stated his pleasure at hearing that Hitler had referred to England and Germany as 'two pillars upon which the European social order could rest'. Wilson expanded the metaphor by expressing his wish 'that an arch of co-operation should be erected on these two pillars'. He also expressed his hope that Germany would succeed in fulfilling her goals regarding Austria and Czechoslovakia 'as much as possible without the use of force'.\n\nIn June Wilson went further, intimating to of the German Ministry of Economics, that Britain was prepared to recognise German economic dominance in central Europe. Furthermore, Britain would also accept the transfer of the Sudetenland from Czechoslovakia to Germany. However, in exchange for this recognition Hitler would need to state the limits of Germany's territorial ambitions.\n\nAugust ended with Lord Halifax sending a letter from Winston Churchill to Wilson on the 31st. It suggested a joint declaration by Britain, France and Russia calling for a peaceful solution to the crisis. However, Wilson counselled Chamberlain against the inclusion of the Russians as he felt this would anger the Fuhrer and take away any benefit a declaration may bring. Wilson went further still, stating that he doubted the ability of Britain, France and Russia to act militarily against Germany. Furthermore, that if it came to military action, Britain would to all intents and purposes be attacking alone.\n\nKordt returned to Downing Street in early September but on this occasion as a member of the German resistance to Hitler. Kordt had already urged Wilson on August 23 that Britain must speak and act with clarity on the matter. Now he came with specific intelligence that Hitler would invade Czechoslovakia on September 19 or 20 as he felt France would not honour its pledge to the Czechs. Kordt urged Wilson that Chamberlain should broadcast to Germany and state unequivocally that Britain would assist the Czechs in resisting a Nazi invasion. Moved by the request Wilson asked Kordt to come back the following day to say the same to Halifax and Cadogan. It was they who vetoed the idea as they felt it would preclude the possibility of a peaceful solution to the crisis. According to Kordt, Wilson stated that Russia could be left out of any European settlement as \"\"in his opinion the system there was bound 'to melt away' some day\"\". \n\nOn 15 September 1938, Prime Minister Chamberlain left for Germany to negotiate with Adolf Hitler regarding the disputed territory of the Sudetenland. He was accompanied on this mission by Wilson in what was his first diplomatic mission. Sir Harold Nicolson described the pair and their mission as \"\"the bright faithfulness of two curates entering a pub for the first time\"\". \n\nWhile he travelled with Wilson to meet Hitler during the crisis, Chamberlain still consulted the inner cabinet (Lord Halifax, Sir John Simon and Sir Samuel Hoare) on the matter as well as meetings of the full cabinet.\n\nWilson travelled with the Prime Minister to three meetings with Hitler, but also travelled to see the Fuhrer alone on 26 September.\n\nHis lone mission on 26 September to see Hitler followed the German leader issuing his Godesberg ultimatum to Czechoslovakia regarding the ceding of the Sudetenland to Nazi Germany. Wilson carried with him a letter from Chamberlain. It proposed direct negotiations between Germany and Czechoslovakia and His Majesty's Government would act for the Czechs if both parties agreed. Wilson was unable to deliver the second part of the message due to Hitler being in a bad mood, which left him impatient and irritable. Returning the following day, Wilson was able to complete his task, stating \"\"if, in the pursuit of her treaty obligations, France became actively engaged in hostilities against Germany, the United Kingdom would feel obliged to support her\".\"\n\nLater, in July 1939, Wilson continued his efforts at negotiation. Herr Wohlthat, a junior German government official was in London for a whaling conference. Wilson invited Wohlthat to a meeting in which Wilson presented a memorandum outlining a possible agreement between the United Kingdom and Nazi Germany. The paper proposed a joint declaration to abstain from aggression, arms limits, and economic cooperation. As Wohlthat left he reported Wilson as saying \"\"...he saw the possibility of a common foreign and trade policy for the two greatest European states\".\" Feeling himself too junior an official for such matters, Wohlthat reported to his superiors and asked what should be the reply. No reply has been found to that question.\n\nWilson also liaised with the press, meeting newspaper owners to gain support for appeasement. He also warned the BBC to exercise self-censorship in relation to Germany. \n\nWilson was referred to in the book \"Guilty Men\" by Michael Foot, Frank Owen and Peter Howard (writing under the pseudonym 'Cato'), published in 1940 as an attack on public figures for their failure to re-arm and their appeasement of Nazi Germany. Wilson later stated in 1962 that, \"\"Our policy was never designed just to postpone war, or enable us to enter war more united. The aim of our appeasement was to avoid war altogether, for all time.\"\"\n\nJust after the outbreak of war, John Colville joined the Downing Street staff as Chamberlain's Private Secretary in October 1939. Colville noted that Chamberlain seldom took action without Wilson's advice. Colville also felt that \"he came to believe himself as infallible as the prime minister thought him to be\". Labour Party leader Clement Attlee also commented that during Chamberlain's premiership Wilson \"had a hand in everything, ran everything\". However, Chamberlain's sister Hilda observed that her brother used Wilson purely as a messenger and knew his own mind. Wilson himself refuted the idea that he exercised power and felt himself to be merely a \"chopping block\" for the Prime Minister's ideas.\n\nSources vary on specifics, but when Winston Churchill became prime minister Wilson was threatened with the governorship of Greenland should Churchill see him at Downing Street again. Some sources have this occurring on the day of the accession, 10 May 1940, while others give 11 May. There is also some disagreement as to whether it was Churchill's son Randolph and Brendan Bracken who made the remark or a quip by Churchill himself. \n\nWilson reverted to his role as Permanent Secretary to the Treasury until August 1942 when he retired, having reached the age of 60, then the pensionable age for the Civil Service. In January 1944 Wilson was appointed by the Minister of Health to act as Chairman of the National Joint Council for Local Authorities' Administrative, Professional, Technical and Clerical Services. The council was engaged in matters of pay and conditions of those in local government as well as supervision of recruitment and training provision.\n\nWilson spoke at a 1957 meeting in support of Nigel Nicolson MP, for the constituency of Bournemouth East and Christchurch, when the local constituency part moved to deselect him over disagreements about the Suez Crisis. Wilson told the meeting that \"he was against all subservience and dictators, and all for freedom in thought and speech – even if it meant an independence which might annoy some of those in power at headquarters or locally\".\n\nBritish journalist Leonard Mosley interviewed Wilson among numerous others for the 1969 book \"On Borrowed Time\", about the months leading up to the outbreak of World War II. Wilson acknowledged having felt out of his depth in dealing with Nazi Germany, while Mosley remained critical of Wilson's role. It has also been reported that he showed little interest in the fate of Germany's Jews during the negotiations with Hitler. Speaking to another journalist, Colin Cross, in 1968, 23 years after end of the war, Wilson is quoted as saying that he understood Hitler's feelings about the Jews. \"Have you ever met a Jew you liked?\" he asked Cross. \n\nWilson died in Bournemouth on 19 May 1972.\n\nWilson is a key character in Michael Dobbs' novel \"Winston's War\". In the book Wilson is portrayed as an arch-manipulator who has the telephones of all potential enemies to Neville Chamberlain tapped and will use any methods he can to get rid of Winston Churchill.\n\nWilson also appears in Jean-Paul Sartre's novel \"The Reprieve\".\n\nWilson is something of a macguffin in the alternative history writings of Harry Turtledove. In both the Southern Victory Series and The War That Came Early series, Wilson serves as Prime Minister for part of an analog of World War II.\n\nIn the TV mini-series \"\" (1981) Wilson is depicted by the actor Clive Swift. This film is technically \"fiction\" though it adheres closely to historical facts and was made with input from professional historian and biographer Martin Gilbert. The film shows Wilson holding enormous (and malign) influence in the ramp-up to war in the 1930s. A pivotal sequence of the film shows Neville Chamberlain (played by Eric Porter) and Wilson having a late-night meeting, in Wilson's office, about Wilson expanding his role in the government and becoming Chamberlain's right-hand man. Wilson doesn't explicitly ask for much but cannily steers Chamberlain toward what he wants. \n\nWilson also features in \"Munich\" by Robert Harris. The book is a fiction story but set against the real Munich Conference in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "1860527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860527", "title": "Dactylomancy", "text": "Dactylomancy\n\nDactylomancy, from the Greek word for finger, is a term used by proponents to define a form of divination using rings.\n\nIn some traditions of dactylomancy, a ring is suspended like a pendulum above a surface that is marked with letters or symbols. The direction of the swing indicates which symbols are to be consulted, or which letter are to be formed into a message, in answer to a specific question. Another tradition follows the same pattern as Séance table-rapping. In it a ring is suspended from a tumbler so that it may touch the sides if swung and a code is agreed upon (e.g., 1 for yes, 2 for no). A question is then posed and the number of the times that the ring strikes the side of the tumbler is interpreted as being an answer.\n\nA more complex form of dactylomancy was practiced in Europe during the Middle Ages in which a ring was suspended above a circular table marked with the symbols of the zodiac. 78 metal discs inscribed with a letter of the alphabet (three discs per letter) were then placed on the table and the thread holding the ring was burnt. The letters that the ring rolled across and the one on which it halted were then consulted to form the answer to the question being divined. In this tradition, the metal from which the ring was made was determined by the day of the week.\n\n\nAccording to Diderot, the person who held the ring was typically dressed from head to toe in only a sheet of cloth; his head was shaved in a circular manner, and he held verbena in his hands.\n\nModern dactylomancy is usually associated with spiritualism and new age beliefs, rather Parapsychology.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860531", "title": "Cyclomancy", "text": "Cyclomancy\n\nCyclomancy is a form of divination based on spinning an object and deriving predictions or conclusions from the object's final resting direction. In some traditions, a wheel or top is spun on a surface marked with letters or symbols, and those that fall closest to the device's pointer are consulted. In other traditions, any suitable object may be spun and its direction may be used to obtain a simple yes/no answer or directional indicator. For example, an object with a distinguishing feature may be spun between two diverging paths or disparate objects, and the one closest to the feature is chosen. The party game Spin the Bottle is loosely based on this concept.\n\nCyclomancy is sometimes used in Dowsing.\n"}
{"id": "1860537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860537", "title": "Philolexian Society", "text": "Philolexian Society\n\nThe Philolexian Society of Columbia University is one of the oldest college literary and debate societies in the United States, and the oldest student group at Columbia. Founded in 1802, the Society aims to \"improve its members in Oratory, Composition and Forensic Discussion.\" The name \"Philolexia\" is Greek for \"love of discourse,\" and the society's motto is the Latin word \"Surgam\", meaning \"I shall rise.\" The society traces its roots to a literary society founded by Alexander Hamilton in the 1770s.\n\nPhilolexian (known to members as \"Philo,\" pronounced with a long \"i\") has been called the \"oldest thing at Columbia except the College itself,\" and it has been an integral part of Columbia from the beginning, providing the institution with everything from its colors, Philolexian Blue (along with White, from her long-dispatched rival Peithologian Society), to some of its most solemn traditions and many of its most noted graduates. Members are admitted after a highly selective evaluation process and are sworn to secrecy thereafter.\n\nPhilolexian is one of many literary societies that flourished at the nation's early colonial colleges. Before fraternities, publications, and other extracurriculars became common, these groups—which generally bore Greek or Latin names—were the sole source of undergraduate social life. Indeed, it was not unusual for two or more groups to coexist at one institution, often in competition. Surviving examples include the Porcellian Club and Institute of 1770 of Harvard University; Crotonia Society, Linonian Society, Calliopean Society, and Brothers in Unity of Yale University; Philodemic Society of Georgetown University, Union-Philanthropic Literary Society at Hampden-Sydney College, the Dialectic and Philanthropic Societies at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Jefferson Literary and Debating Society at the University of Virginia and the Whig–Cliosophic Society at Princeton University. Yale University also has a number of student literary and political societies with similar purposes (though without the Greek names), the most notable being the Elizabethan Club and the Yale Political Union.\n\nColumbia's first such society was formed in the 1770s, when the school was still known as King's College; among this unnamed organization's members was future Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton (Class of 1778) and his roommate Robert Troup. After the Revolution, a similar group known as the Columbia College Society for Progress in Letters was formed; among its members were John P. Van Ness (Class of 1789), later mayor of Washington, D.C., and Daniel D. Tompkins (Class of 1795), vice president of the United States under James Monroe. The group became extinct in 1795.\n\nBuilding on these earlier efforts, Philolexian was established on May 17, 1802. Among its earliest members were future Columbia president Nathaniel Fish Moore (Class of 1802), and Alexander Hamilton's son, James Alexander Hamilton (Class of 1805), U.S. Attorney for the Southern District of New York. To accommodate freshmen, who were initially ineligible for admission, the Peithologian Society was formed four years later. For most of the next 100 years, Peithologian would serve as Philolexian's primary literary rival.\n\nFor most of the 19th century, Philo engaged in a wide range of literary activities, including debates within and without the society, essay writing, correspondence, and hosting speeches by eminent men of the city. In 1852, at the organization's semi-centennial celebration, alumni raised a prize fund of over $1,300 to endow annual awards in three categories: Oratory, Debate, and Essay. (The awards were eventually combined into a general \"Philolexian Prize\" which, since the 1950s, has been awarded annually by Columbia University's English department.)\n\nIn the 20th century, Philo broadened its range of activities as it became a training ground for essayist Randolph Bourne (Class of 1912), poet A. Joyce Kilmer (Class of 1908), and statesman V.K. Wellington Koo (Class of 1909), all prize winners in their time at Philo. In 1910 the society took a decidedly dramatic turn when it commenced a 20-year stretch of annual theatre productions, ranging from Elizabethan comedies to contemporary works. Many of the older productions, by the likes of Ben Jonson, Nicholas Udall, and Robert Greene, were North American debuts. Oscar-winning screenwriter Sidney Buchman (\"Mr. Smith Goes to Washington, Here Comes Mr. Jordan, Cleopatra\") (Class of 1923) got a start playing Shakespeare's Richard II for a Philo production.\n\nAlthough Philolexian members during the Great Depression included such figures as future Pulitzer Prize-winning poet John Berryman and publisher Robert Giroux (both Class of 1936) and noted Trappist monk and humanist Thomas Merton (Class of 1938), the economic hardships of the period severely curtailed the group's activities. By the late 1930s, according to former society president Ralph de Toledano (Class of 1938), the organization was devoted mainly to drinking wine and listening to jazz. Philo effectively ceased to function by the beginning of World War II.\n\nBut in 1943, at the behest of Columbia history professor and former Philo president Jacques Barzun (Class of 1927), several undergraduates competed for the Philolexian Centennial Washington Prize, an oratory competition endowed by J. Ackerman Coles (Class of 1864), bestowed on the society on the occasion of its centennial in 1902. This short-lived revival was followed by another wartime incarnation. By 1952, due to waning interest and, according to some, the infamous presidency of poet Allen Ginsberg (Class of 1948), the society entered a 10-year period of dormancy. Another brief revival in 1962, spearheaded by members of the Columbia chapter of Alpha Delta Phi, was followed by an even longer period of inactivity.\n\nOn Wednesday, October 16, 1985, under the guidance of Thomas Vinciguerra (Class of 1985), the society was revived in its current incarnation. Mr. Vinciguerra was subsequently recognized as the society's \"Avatar\" in honor of this and other critical and successful efforts for Philo. In 2003, an award in his name was established.\n\nOn Saturday, October 16, 2010, the society celebrated the 25th anniversary of its revival with a reception and meeting for students, alumni (known as \"Geezers\"), and various supporters; the occasion was dubbed \"Resurgam 25.\" The debate topic, \"Resolved: The Philolexian Society Has Never Had It So Good\" was overwhelmingly approved.\n\nThe Philolexian Society holds meetings every Thursday the University is in session; the agenda typically consists of a debate and the presentation of a literary work. It also hosts a Croquet Tea, the Annual Joyce Kilmer Memorial Bad Poetry Contest\n\nIn 2003 the society held a constitutional convention that updated the original document, adjusting the organization to suit changes that had happened in the previous 200 years, such as co-education. Nonetheless, the society has retained its traditional forms and rituals almost in their entirety. Philolexian has several officers, the Moderator (\"de facto\" president), Scriba, and Censor (\"emeritus\" president), as well as other enviable positions, including Herald, Keeper of the Halls, Chancellor of the Exchequer, Sergeant-at-Arms, Whip, Minister of Internet Truth, Nomenclaturist-General, Symposiarch, and Literary Czar, editor of the literary journal of the Society. \n\nThe number of Philolexians is unknown. Those who wish to gain full membership within the society must speak at three consecutive meetings and attend regularly. Those candidates who qualify may receive an invitation to New Member Night, a secretive initiation rite. A petition for membership and a work of original, creative merit must be provided by the candidate. This meeting is not open to the public. Members have access to a large number of privileges through the organization.\n\nIn addition to the names cited above, prominent Philolexians have included:\n\n\nPhilolexians have:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860541", "title": "Salang Tunnel", "text": "Salang Tunnel\n\nThe Salang Tunnel ( \"Tūnel-e Sālang\") is a tunnel located at the Salang Pass in the Hindu Kush mountains, between the Parwan and Baghlan provinces of Afghanistan. It was completed by the Soviet Union in 1964 and has been used to connect the northern Afghan cities with the capital, Kabul. The tunnel is currently being repaired and improved. Between seven and ten thousand vehicles pass through the tunnel each day.\n\nThe Salang Tunnel is the only pass going in a north–south direction to remain in use throughout the year. It is known for a deadly fire which occurred in November 1982, and several avalanche incidents. A series of avalanches led to the deaths of as many as 172 people in February 2010 either as a direct result of the avalanche or through being trapped.\n\nThe tunnel represents the major north-south connection in Afghanistan, cutting travel from 72 hours to 10 hours and saving about . It reaches an altitude of about and is long. The width and height of the tunnel tube are . Other sources say that the tunnel is no more than wide at the base and high, but only in the center.\n\nIn 1955, Afghanistan and the former Soviet Union signed an agreement to initiate joint development of the Salang road, initially via the historic Salang Pass route. The tunnel was opened in 1964 and provided a year-round connection from the northern parts of the country to Kabul. The tunnel was the highest road tunnel in the world until 1973, when the United States built the Eisenhower Memorial Tunnel — just slightly higher and slightly longer — in Colorado in the Rocky Mountains.\n\nIn 2010, it was noted that about 16,000 vehicles pass the Salang tunnel daily. Other reports say that the tunnel was designed for 1,000 vehicles a day, but is now handling seven to ten thousand vehicles a day.\n\nTechnical studies for a second Salang tunnel started in May 2012. The United States Agency for International Development (USAID) has started studying plans to construct a second tunnel in Salang, and the cost of the project was expected to be specified after the study has been completed. USAID and the World Bank have shown an interest in helping pay the costs of the project. The new tunnel will decrease the problems of travelling on the Salang highway, on which seven thousand vehicles travel daily. Hence, there is less risk of snow avalanches, and a less winding road in the new tunnel. The new tunnel will stretch further than the current tunnel, but the new road will be shorter when comparing full trips. The new tunnel will reach from the Olang region in Parwan province to DoShakh in Baghlan province, going through the mountains of the Hindu Kush.\n\nDuring the Soviet-Afghan war, the tunnel was a crucial military link to the south, yet was prone to ambushes by the mujaheddin. On November 3, 1982 the Salang tunnel fire killed 64 Soviet soldiers and 112 Afghans; apparently after a collision, a tanker truck blew up in the tunnel and the fire engulfed a military convoy. Other sources offer some variation in the number of fatalities; although the Guinness Book of World Records 2007 cites the same figure of \"about 176\" fatalities.\n\nAfter the 1989 Soviet withdrawal from Afghanistan, maintenance suffered, and eventually, in the course of combat between the Afghan Northern Alliance and the Taliban in 1997–1998, the tunnel's entrances, lighting and ventilation system were destroyed, so that it could only be transited by foot in the dark. After the overthrow of the Taliban led government, a joint effort between agencies from Afghanistan, France, Russia, the United States and others cleared the mines and debris and reopened the tunnel on January 19, 2002.\n\nSeveral weeks after reopening several hundred people were trapped in the tunnel due to an avalanche at its southern end. While most people were rescued, fatalities occurred due to asphyxiation and freezing. After further rehabilitation, in July 2004, the tunnel could carry two-way traffic.\n\nAvalanches in the approach to the tunnel killed at least ten people in January 2009.\n\nOn February 8, 2010, a series of at least seventeen avalanches struck the area around the tunnel, burying miles of road, killing dozens of people and stranding hundreds more. \nHundreds of cars were buried in the snow. More than 150 people are expected to have been killed in \ntotal, according to officials. At least 400 injuries were reported.\n\nThe Afghan National Army and NATO used their helicopters to rescue at least 2,500 people who were trapped inside their vehicles.\n\nThe avalanches were caused by a sudden blizzard that struck the area, closing the tunnel and the roads around it on both side of the tunnel.\n\nThe tunnel was reopened on February 12, 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860542", "title": "Covenant of the Goddess", "text": "Covenant of the Goddess\n\nThe Covenant of the Goddess (CoG) is a cross-traditional Wiccan group of solitary Wiccan practitioners and over one hundred affiliated covens (or congregations). It was founded in 1975 in order to increase co-operation among witches and to secure for witches and covens the legal protection enjoyed by members of other religions. Member covens generally focus theology and ritual around the worship of the Goddess and the Old Gods (or the Goddess alone), which is general practice within Wicca. The Covenant of the Goddess operates largely by consensus and maintains strict autonomy for all members.\n\nThe CoG began in 1975 when Wiccan elders of various traditions gathered to form an organization for all Witchcraft practitioners. At this meeting, they drafted a covenant and bylaws. That same year on the Summer Solstice, 13 covens ratified the bylaws. It was incorporated on Halloween (or Samhain) 1975, as a non-profit religious organization in California.\n\nAt each Sabbat the group publishes a newsletter. The newsletter is available free in electronic form on the CoG website. A hard copy subscription is also available for a nominal fee to cover production and mailing costs.\n\nCoG has been active in the modern Interfaith Movement. Representatives of Covenant of the Goddess attended the Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago, Illinois, in 1993; Cape Town, South Africa, in 1999; and Barcelona, Spain, in 2004. Members of the Covenant are also active in the United Religions Initiative, the North American Interfaith Network and many other interfaith groups.\n\nCoG was involved in the campaign to have the Department of Veterans Affairs recognize the pentacle as suitable for headstone markers; see also Sgt. Patrick Stewart. On April 23, 2007, the VA added the pentacle to the list of emblems allowed in national cemeteries and on VA-issued headstones, markers, and plaques.\n\nThe group organizes and sponsors an annual festival called \"Merry Meet\", held in conjunction with the annual business meeting. Representatives from all the member Covens congregate and decide on relevant issues affecting the organization, and Wiccans in general. The business meeting is called the \"Grand Council\", and is run in a consensus format. There are also workshops, vendors and shopping. As is common with many Wiccan festivals, there are also community rituals and spiritual connections, which play a large part in the festival.\n\nThe group created and administers several religious emblem programs for youth and adults working with youth organizations such as the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of the USA. The programs are \"Over the Moon\" for ages 8–11, \"Hart and Crescent\" for ages 12–18, and the Distinguished Youth Service Award for adults working with youth. Service to the Military and the greater Pagan and Heathen communities is also honored annually at the Merry Meet festival. Due to the scarcity of units chartered by Wiccan organizations the Boy Scouts of America has declined to recognize these programs. As a result, members cannot wear it officially on their uniform. For further information, see Religious emblems programs (Boy Scouts of America).\n\nThe group operates by a Code of Ethics, which all members (covens or solitary) are expected to understand and follow:\n\nMembership in the Covenant is open to covens and individual members that meet the requirements. Requirements include: subscribing to the Covenant's code of ethics, worship of the Goddess and the Old Gods, pledging to abide by the charter, bylaws and policy of the Council, and agreeing to \"hold harmless\" any committee or committee member of the Covenant. The Covenant is a confederation of member covens and solitaires. An annual Grand Council is held to make decisions for the whole organization, and members also cooperate in local councils which have at least three covens. Decisions at all levels are made by a formal consensus process.\n\nThe Covenant recognizes two levels of clergy: priest or priestess and high priest or high priestess. In addition, the Covenant solemnizes the lifelong relationships of members in \"handfasting\" ceremonies. Handfasting is not limited to traditional marriages, as any number of people regardless of gender may commit themselves to a lifelong relationship.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860550", "title": "Nova Iguaçu FC", "text": "Nova Iguaçu FC\n\nNova Iguaçu Futebol Clube, or Nova Iguaçu as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Nova Iguaçu in Rio de Janeiro, founded on April 1, 1990.\n\nNova Iguaçu greatest rival is from the same city: Artsul.\n\nHome stadium is the Jânio Moraes stadium, capacity 16,000. They play in orange shirts, white shorts and orange socks.\n\nNova Iguaçu Futebol Clube was founded on April 1, 1990, by the initiative of 25 self-employed persons, led by Jânio Moraes. The foundation project was idealized in 1988/1989, by Jânio Moraes, and supported by the 25 self-employed people. 1994 World Cup champion Zinho is one of the founders of the club and was a director-partner of the club.\n\nIn 1994, only four years after the club's foundation, Nova Iguaçu won the Campeonato Carioca Third Level, and gained promotion to the state championship second level.\n\nIn 2005, after a successful campaign, Nova Iguaçu won the Campeonato Carioca Second Level and was promoted to the 2006 Campeonato Carioca First Division.\n\nOn January 14, 2006, Nova Iguaçu played their first ever Campeonato Carioca first division match, against the major club Flamengo, at Estádio Raulino de Oliveira, where the club won 1-0. However, Flamengo's players were youngsters.\n\nOn June 21, 2008, the club won the Copa Rio for the first time, after beating Americano 3-2 at Estádio Godofredo Cruz, Campos dos Goytacazes, home of the opponent club.\n\n\n\n\nNova Iguaçu's home stadium is Estádio Jânio Moraes, also known as Estádio Laranjão, inaugurated in 2009, with a maximum capacity of 5,000 people.\n\nNova Iguaçu's previously home stadium was Estádio Giulite Coutinho, also known as Estádio Édson Passos, inaugurated in 2000, with a maximum capacity of 16,000 people.\n\nThe club is affectionately known as \"Carrossel da Baixada\" (Baixada's Carrousel), in reference to the team color (orange), similar to the color of the Netherlands' 1974 World Cup team (known as the Dutch Carrousel). The color adopted by the club was orange, in honor to the period (in the 1930s) when Nova Iguaçu city was one of the biggest orange exporters in the world (the fruit still is one of the city symbols).\n\n"}
{"id": "1860551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860551", "title": "Markian Popov", "text": "Markian Popov\n\nMarkian Mikhaylovich Popov (; 19021969) was a Soviet military commander, Army General (26 August 1943), and Hero of the Soviet Union (1965).\n\nMarkian Popov was born in 1902 in Ust-Medvediskaya in the Don Host Oblast (now Volgograd Oblast) in a family of Russian ethnicity. His father was a civil servant. Popov joined the Red Army in 1920 and the Bolshevik Party in 1921. During the German–Soviet War at various times he commanded a number of Armies and a number of Fronts. His career was uneven. In June 1941 he was Commander of the Leningrad Military District, then Northern Front (24 June – 5 September). The Germans advanced with a terrific speed, but then they were halted just before Leningrad. The army group was on 26 August renamed as Leningrad Front. Then he participated in Zhukov's counteroffensive before Moscow. Zhukov, who co-ordinated several fronts in this Moscow sector, tried to collect able commanders in the area. So for example the 16th Army (Western Front) was headed by General Rokossovsky, the 4th Shock Army’s commander was General Yeryomenko, the 5th Army was under General Govorov. On December 18 Popov was appointed Commander of the 61st Army (Bryansk Front) and fought well during the counteroffensive.\n\nHe maintained this position until 28 June 1942. Then he was shifted to the Stalingrad area. He was Assistant Commander of the Stalingrad Front (under Yeremenko, 13 October – 20 November), then Commander of the 5th Shock Army (8 December – 28 December). On December 26 this army was switched to Vatutin's Southwestern Front. In 1943 firstly he commanded a larger mechanized group, but in February his unit was .\n\nThen he was appointed Commander of the Bryansk Front (5 June – 10 October 1943), with which he participated in the Battle of Kursk. During the battle, the Bryansk Front was very successful in crushing German opposition, and was able to capture Oryol and Bryansk in August. He was promoted to Army General (26 August 1943). After the Battle of Kursk he was sent north, to command the 2nd Baltic Front (20 October 1943 – 23 April 1944). He was demoted to Colonel General (20 April 1944) because of the unsuccessful actions in the Baltic area, who was commissar at the front. Until the end of the war he was Chief of Staff of the Leningrad Front.\n\nAfter the war he was promoted again to Army General (3 August 1953). In 1956–62 he was Chief of the General Staff of the Soviet Ground Forces.\n\nHe died 22 April 1969 in an accidental fire.\n\nHe was never given the rank Marshal of the Soviet Union, although Marshal of Aviation Golovanov and Marshal Vasilevsky considered him very talented.\n\npage from warheroes.ru in Russian\n\n"}
{"id": "1860552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860552", "title": "Cimaruta", "text": "Cimaruta\n\nThe cimaruta (\"\"'-mah-'-tah\"\"; plural cimarute) is an Italian folk charm, a type traditionally worn around the neck or hung above an infant's bed to ward off the evil eye (). Commonly made of silver, the amulet itself consists of several small apotropaic charms (some of which draw upon Christian symbolism), with each individual piece attached to what is supposed to represent a branch of rue—the flowering medicinal herb for which the whole talisman is named, \"cimaruta\" being a Neapolitan form of \"cima di ruta\": Italian for \"sprig of rue\".\n\nThe component parts of the cimarute, which are particularly associated with southern Italy, may differ by region of origin. From out of a central stalk of rue serving as its base, there radiate multiple branches which appear to blossom into various designs; the divergent branches \"sprout\" at their extremities such magical symbols as: a rose; a hand holding either a wand or a sword; a flaming heart; a fish; a crescent moon; a snake; an owl; a plumed medieval helmet; a vervain blossom; a dolphin; a cock; and an eagle. One cimaruta, for example, might bear the collective imagery of a key, dagger, blossom and moon. Most are double-sided and fairly large—some almost four inches in width.\n\nAlong with various other documented elements of regional magic traditions, the cimaruta is (alleged to be) in borrowed use amongst self-identified Italian-American witches. Some practitioners of the Neopagan \"religion of witchcraft\" Stregheria (or \"Streghe\") may consider it a remnant of a more ancient Italian magic tradition, such as that detailed by Charles Leland in his 1899 text \"Aradia, or the Gospel of the Witches\" (which—apart from directly influencing the development of Stregheria—claimed the existence of an insular pagan witch-cult active in Italy).\n\nSome modern versions of the cimaruta are cast in bronze or pewter.\n\nAuthor Raven Grimassi in his book \"The Cimaruta: And Other Magical Charms From Old Italy\" (2012) discusses the charm as a sign of membership in the \"Society of Diana\" which he refers to as an organization of witches. Grimassi argues that the Cimaruta was originally a witchcraft charm used by witches that was later arrogated by Italian Folk Magic, and that Christian symbols were then added to the original Pagan symbols.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860558", "title": "Periods in Western art history", "text": "Periods in Western art history\n\nThis is a chronological list of periods in Western art history. An art period is a phase in the development of the work of an artist, groups of artists or art movement.\n\nMinoan art\n\nAncient Greek art\n\nRoman art\n\nMedieval art\n\nRenaissance c. 1300 – c. 1602, began in Florence\n\nRomanticism −1780 – 1850\n\nModern art – 1860 – 1945\n\nNote: The countries listed are the country in which the movement or group started. Most modern art movements were international in scope.\n\nContemporary art – 1946–present\n\nNote: there is overlap with what is considered \"contemporary art\" and \"modern art.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1860560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860560", "title": "Donerail", "text": "Donerail\n\nDonerail (1910–after 1918) was an American Thoroughbred racehorse that was the upset winner of the 1913 Kentucky Derby. His win stands as the biggest longshot victory in the history of the Kentucky Derby. Going off at 91-1, Donerail provided a $184.90 payoff for a $2 bet.\n\nA bay colt by McGee out of Algie M. by Hanover, Donerail was trained by T.P. Hayes, as well as bred in Kentucky by him. His jockey was Roscoe Goose.\n\nIn the 1913 Kentucky Derby, various horses had the lead, and for a time it was Ten Point, Foundation in second, and Yankee Notions third. Roscoe Goose kept Donerail away from the pacesetters but within striking distance. As the horses turned into the stretch, Ten Point was still leading, but Donerail closed to gain the lead. He crossed the wire half a length ahead of Ten Point. Donerail was drawing away at the finish and set a track record with a time of 2:04 4/5.\n\nDonerail was retired in 1917 and was briefly used as breeding stallion in Lexington, where he commanded a stud fee of $50. In December 1917, Hayes donated Donerail to the Remount Service for use as a sire of cavalry horses. Gelded and sold to John E. Madden, Donerail reappeared on the turf on May 27, 1918, in New York, where he was eased and dropped out of competition in a mile-long race.\n\nOf 62 starts, Donerail won 10, placed in 11, and showed in 10. His other major victories came in the Canadian Sportsmen's Handicap and the Hamilton Cup. His career earnings amounted to $15,156.\n\n\nDonerail could not have raced in 1918 if he died in 1917."}
{"id": "1860568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860568", "title": "The Well of Loneliness", "text": "The Well of Loneliness\n\nThe Well of Loneliness is a lesbian novel by British author Radclyffe Hall that was first published in 1928 by Jonathan Cape. It follows the life of Stephen Gordon, an Englishwoman from an upper-class family whose \"sexual inversion\" (homosexuality) is apparent from an early age. She finds love with Mary Llewellyn, whom she meets while serving as an ambulance driver in World War I, but their happiness together is marred by social isolation and rejection, which Hall depicts as typically suffered by \"inverts\", with predictably debilitating effects. The novel portrays \"inversion\" as a natural, God-given state and makes an explicit plea: \"Give us also the right to our existence\".\n\nThe novel became the target of a campaign by James Douglas, editor of the \"Sunday Express\", who wrote, \"I would rather give a healthy boy or a healthy girl a phial of prussic acid than this novel.\" Although its only sexual reference consists of the words \"she kissed her full on the lips, as a lover\" and \"and that night, they were not divided\", a British court judged it obscene because it defended \"unnatural practices between women\". In the United States the book survived legal challenges in New York state and in Customs Court.\n\nPublicity over \"The Well of Loneliness\"s legal battles increased the visibility of lesbians in British and American culture. For decades it was the best-known lesbian novel in English, and often the first source of information about lesbianism that young people could find. Some readers have valued it, while others have criticised it for Stephen's expressions of self-hatred, and viewed it as inspiring shame. Its role in promoting images of lesbians as \"mannish\" or cross-dressed women has also been controversial. Although critics differ as to the value of \"The Well of Loneliness\" as a work of literature, its treatment of sexuality and gender continues to inspire study and debate.\n\nIn 1926, Radclyffe Hall was at the height of her career. Her novel \"Adam's Breed\", about the spiritual awakening of an Italian headwaiter, had become a best-seller; it would soon win the Prix Femina and the James Tait Black Prize. She had long thought of writing a novel about sexual inversion; now, she believed, her literary reputation would allow such a work to be given a hearing. Since she knew she was risking scandal and \"the shipwreck of her whole career\", she sought and received the blessing of her partner, Una Troubridge, before she began work. Her goals were social and political; she wanted to end public silence about homosexuality and bring about \"a more tolerant understanding\" – as well as to \"spur all classes of inverts to make good through hard work...and sober and useful living\".\n\nIn April 1928 she told her editor that her new book would require complete commitment from its publisher and that she would not allow even one word to be altered. \"I have put my pen at the service of some of the most persecuted and misunderstood people in the world...So far as I know nothing of the kind has ever been attempted before in fiction.\"\n\nThe book's protagonist, Stephen Gordon, is born in the late Victorian era to upper-class parents in Worcestershire who are expecting a boy and who christen her with the name they had already chosen. Even at birth she is physically unusual, a \"narrow-hipped, wide-shouldered little tadpole of a baby\". She hates dresses, wants to cut her hair short, and longs to be a boy. At seven, she develops a crush on a housemaid named Collins, and is devastated when she sees Collins kissing a footman.\n\nStephen's father, Sir Phillip, dotes on her; he seeks to understand her through the writings of Karl Heinrich Ulrichs, the first modern writer to propose a theory of homosexuality, but does not share his findings with Stephen. Her mother, Lady Anna, is distant, seeing Stephen as a \"blemished, unworthy, maimed reproduction\" of Sir Phillip. At eighteen, Stephen forms a close friendship with a Canadian man, Martin Hallam, but is horrified when he declares his love for her. The following winter, Sir Phillip is crushed by a falling tree; at the last moment he tries to explain to Lady Anna that Stephen is an invert, but dies without managing to do so.\n\nStephen begins to dress in masculine clothes made by a tailor rather than a dressmaker. At twenty-one she falls in love with Angela Crossby, the American wife of a new neighbour. Angela uses Stephen as an \"anodyne against boredom\", allowing her \"a few rather schoolgirlish kisses\". The pair conduct a relationship that, although not explicitly stated, seems to have some sexual element, at least for Stephen. Then Stephen discovers that Angela is having an affair with a man. Fearing exposure, Angela shows a letter from Stephen to her husband, who sends a copy to Stephen's mother. Lady Anna denounces Stephen for \"presum[ing] to use the word love in connection with...these unnatural cravings of your unbalanced mind and undisciplined body.\" Stephen replies, \"As my father loved you, I loved...It was good, good, \"good\" – I'd have laid down my life a thousand times over for Angela Crossby.\" After the argument, Stephen goes to her father's study and for the first time opens his locked bookcase. She finds a book by Krafft-Ebing – assumed by critics to be \"Psychopathia Sexualis\", a text about homosexuality and paraphilias – and, reading it, learns that she is an invert.\n\nStephen moves to London and writes a well-received first novel. Her second novel is less successful, and her friend the playwright Jonathan Brockett, himself an invert, urges her to travel to Paris to improve her writing through a fuller experience of life. There she makes her first, brief contact with urban invert culture, meeting the lesbian salon hostess Valérie Seymour. During World War I she joins an ambulance unit, eventually serving at the front and earning the Croix de Guerre. She falls in love with a younger fellow driver, Mary Llewellyn, who comes to live with her after the war ends. They are happy at first, but Mary becomes lonely when Stephen returns to writing. Rejected by polite society, Mary throws herself into Parisian nightlife. Stephen believes Mary is becoming hardened and embittered and feels powerless to provide her with \"a more normal and complete existence\".\n\nMartin Hallam, now living in Paris, rekindles his old friendship with Stephen. In time, he falls in love with Mary. Persuaded that she cannot give Mary happiness, Stephen pretends to have an affair with Valérie Seymour to drive her into Martin's arms. The novel ends with Stephen's plea to God: \"Give us also the right to our existence!\"\n\nHall describes \"The Well of Loneliness\" as \"The first long and very serious novel entirely upon the subject of sexual inversion\" She wrote \"The Well of Loneliness\" in part to popularise the ideas of sexologists such as Richard von Krafft-Ebing and Havelock Ellis, who regarded homosexuality as an inborn and unalterable trait: congenital sexual inversion.\n\nIn Krafft-Ebing's \"Psychopathia Sexualis\" (1886), the first book Stephen finds in her father's study, inversion is described as a degenerative disorder common in families with histories of mental illness. Exposure to these ideas leads Stephen to describe herself and other inverts as \"hideously maimed and ugly\". Later texts such as \"Sexual Inversion\" (1896) by Havelock Ellis – who contributed a foreword to \"The Well\" – described inversion simply as a difference, not as a defect. By 1901 Krafft-Ebing had adopted a similar view. Hall championed their ideas over those of the psychoanalysts, who saw homosexuality as a form of arrested psychological development, and some of whom believed it could be changed. Indeed, Havelock Ellis' commentary for the novel, which, although edited and censored to some extent, aligns the novel directly with theories of Sexual Inversion: \"I have read The Well of Loneliness with great interest because— apart from its fine qualities as a novel by a writer of accomplished art— it possesses a notable psychological and sociological significance. So far as I know, it is the first English novel which presents, in a completely faithful and uncompromising form, one particular aspect of sexual life as it exists among us today. The relation of certain people, who, while different from their fellow human beings, are sometimes of the highest character and the finest aptitudes— to the often hostile society in which they move, presents difficult and still unresolved problems\"\n\nThe term sexual inversion implied gender role reversal. Female inverts were, to a greater or lesser degree, inclined to traditionally male pursuits and dress; according to Krafft-Ebing, they had a \"masculine soul\". Krafft-Ebing believed that the most extreme inverts also exhibited reversal of secondary sex characteristics; Ellis's research had not demonstrated any such physical differences, but he devoted a great deal of study to the search for them. The idea appears in \"The Well\" in Stephen's unusual proportions at birth and in the scene set at Valerie Seymour's salon, where \"the timbre of a voice, the build of an ankle, the texture of a hand\" reveals the inversion of the guests.\n\nIn 1921, Lord Birkenhead, the Lord High Chancellor of Great Britain, had opposed a bill that would have criminalised lesbianism on the grounds that \"of every thousand women ... 999 have never even heard a whisper of these practices\". In reality, awareness of lesbianism had been gradually increasing since World War I, but it was still a subject most people had never heard of, or perhaps just preferred to ignore. \"The Well of Loneliness\" made sexual inversion a subject of household conversation for the first time. The banning of the book drew so much attention to the very subject it was intended to suppress that it left British authorities wary of further attempts to censor books for lesbian content. In 1935, after a complaint about a health book entitled \"The Single Woman and Her Emotional Problems\", a Home Office memo noted: \"It is notorious that the prosecution of the \"Well of Loneliness\" resulted in infinitely greater publicity about lesbianism than if there had been no prosecution.\"\n\nIn a study of a working-class lesbian community in Buffalo, New York, in the 1940s and 1950s, \"The Well of Loneliness\" was the only work of lesbian literature anyone had read or heard of. For many young lesbians in the 1950s, it was the only source of information about lesbianism. \"The Well\"s name recognition made it possible to find when bookstores and libraries did not yet have sections devoted to LGBT literature. As late as 1994, an article in \"Feminist Review\" noted that \"The Well\" \"regularly appears in coming-out stories – and not just those of older lesbians\". It has often been mocked: Terry Castle says that \"like many bookish lesbians I seem to have spent much of my adult life making jokes about it\", and Mary Renault, who read it in 1938, remembered laughing at its \"earnest humourlessness\" and \"impermissible allowance of self-pity\". Yet it has also produced powerful emotional responses, both positive and negative. One woman was so angry at the thought of how \"The Well\" would affect an \"isolated emerging lesbian\" that she \"wrote a note in the library book, to tell other readers that women loving women can be beautiful\". A Holocaust survivor said, \"Remembering that book, I wanted to live long enough to kiss another woman.\"\n\nJames Douglas illustrated his denunciation of \"The Well\" with a photograph of Radclyffe Hall in a silk smoking jacket and bow tie, holding a cigarette and monocle. She was also wearing a straight knee-length skirt, but later \"Sunday Express\" articles cropped the photo so tightly that it became difficult to tell she was not wearing trousers. Hall's style of dress was not scandalous in the 1920s; short hairstyles were common, and the combination of tailored jackets and short skirts was a recognised fashion, discussed in magazines as the \"severely masculine\" look. Some lesbians, like Hall, adopted variations of the style as a way of signalling their sexuality, but it was a code that only a few knew how to read. With the controversy over \"The Well of Loneliness\", Hall became the public face of sexual inversion, and all women who favoured masculine fashions came under new scrutiny. Lesbian journalist Evelyn Irons – who considered Hall's style of dress \"rather effeminate\" compared to her own – said that after the publication of \"The Well\", truck drivers would call out on the street to any woman who wore a collar and tie: \"Oh, you're Miss Radclyffe Hall\". Some welcomed their newfound visibility: when Hall spoke at a luncheon in 1932, the audience was full of women who had imitated her look. But in a study of lesbian women in Salt Lake City in the 1920s and '30s, nearly all regretted the publication of \"The Well\" because it had drawn unwanted attention to them.\n\nIn the 1970s and early '80s, when lesbian feminists rejected the butch and femme identities that Hall's novel had helped to define, writers like Jane Rule and Blanche Wiesen Cook criticised \"The Well\" for defining lesbianism in terms of masculinity, as well as for presenting lesbian life as \"joyless\".\n\nFurthermore, \"The Well\" arguably embodies what modern readers may regard as misogynistic and biphobic ideas in its presentation of the femme women who experience attraction towards Stephen but eventually end up in heterosexual relationships. Mary's femininity, in particular, is belittled by Hall's presentation of her: She is not Stephen's equal in age, education, family, or wealth, and so is constantly infantilised by her lover. This, coupled with Mary's dependence on Stephen, seems to emphasise the supposed inferiority of the feminine to the masculine. As Clare Hemmings argues, Mary is merely used as \"a means for Stephen to reach her own understanding of the true nature of the deviant’s plight\".\n\nMoreover, Hemmings continues that both Mary and Angela represent the “'traitorous femme' who remains untrustworthy as she may leave you [her female lover] for a man\". The idea that Mary's sexuality and seemingly genuine feelings for Stephen are invalidated by the possibility of her heterosexual relationship with Martin may seem biphobic to modern readers. Furthermore, Hall's treatment of Mary as a dependant and a foil for Stephen's masculinity seemingly degrades femme lesbianism, or femininity in itself, as innately untrustworthy and inferior to forms of masculinity, whether exhibited by men or women.\n\nThe understanding of sexuality represented in the novel is considered strictly in binary terms and exists within misogynistic stereotypes that were prevalent when the novel was published. This contributes to the undertones of biphobia that are present in the treatment of the femme characters that exhibit female-female sexual attraction, especially so in the treatment of Mary. These choices could be partly explained by the understanding of the term bisexuality at the time. During the interwar period the definition was most often understood as a scientific term describing a psychological gender duality, rather than referencing a sexual preference. In other words, the term was used as a scientific neologism for androgyny, and related to understandings of gender and sex, but not to sexual preferences. The heterosexist theory of sexual inversion exhibited in the novel, which asserts that women who love women are really men, could not account for same-sex attractions in feminine and bisexual women, however, especially those whose partners were not masculine. \nSome women in this period ascribed to the theory of Otto Weininger, who suggested that those attracted to others of their own sex were born neither male nor female, but both: they were \"sexually intermediate types\" This theory posited that \"the woman who attracts and is attracted by other women is herself half male\" and that \"homo-sexuality in a woman is the outcome of her masculinity and presupposes a higher degree of development\". Unfortunately, this argument contributes to misogynistic ideas that align intellect genetically with men and masculinity, meaning that Stephen's literary talents in the novel are considered part of her sexual inversion, and come from her masculine brain. This also means that the femme characters, such as Mary, are represented as inferior to the masculine. It invalidates their sexuality as bisexual, because bisexuality did not fit within the binary definitions of sexual inversion.\n\nSome critics assert that \"The Well\"s queer significance extends beyond lesbianism, arguing that the novel provides important bisexual representation in literature.\n\nOther criticism focuses on the potential confusion of sexuality with gender in the novel. Jay Prosser argues that in \"rightly tracing Hall’s debt to nineteenth-century sexologists, critics have wrongly reduced sexual inversion to homosexuality.\" What many refer to as Stephen's 'butch lesbianism', Prosser suggests, is actually a transgender identity. As a child, Stephen insists that she is male – \"Yes, of course I'm a boy … I must be a boy 'cause I feel exactly like one\", – and, when talking to their mother, Stephen says that, \"All my life I’ve never felt like a woman, and you know it.\" Through Stephen's final rejection of Mary, ostensibly so that Mary can participate in a heterosexual relationship with Martin and therefore have a more secure life, Prosser surmises that \"Stephen affirms her identification with the heterosexual man\", thus rejecting lesbianism and instead aligning herself with the male.\n\nEsther Newton, writing in 1989, provides a different perspective of Hall's seemingly confusing depiction of Stephen's lesbianism and its conflation with her gender, hinging her discussion on understanding \"The Well\" in its historical and social context. Newton argues that \"Hall and many other feminists like her embraced [...] the image of the mannish lesbian [...] primarily because they desperately wanted to break out of the asexual model of romantic friendship\" prevalent in the nineteenth century. Sex was seen as something that \"could only occur in the presence of an imperial and imperious penis\", such that sex between women was simply not recognised to exist. Newton shows how sexologists of the time, like Ellis, echoes this sentiment, where his \"antifeminism and reluctance to see active lust in women committed him to fusing inversion and masculinity\". In a society \"very conscious of sex and its vast importance\", Stephen feels excluded from the rigid, feminine role imposed on her as a biological female. Hence, for Stephen's lesbianism to be recognised by the readers in that time, Hall had to deliberately show Stephen \"enter(ing) the male world, [...] as a lesbian in male body drag\", which simultaneously enabled the feminine women in the novel to demonstrate their lesbianism through \"association with their masculine partners\".\n\nThe novel has had its defenders among feminists in the academy, such as Alison Hennegan, pointing out that the novel did raise awareness of homosexuality among the British public and cleared the way for later work that tackled gay and lesbian issues.\n\nIn more recent criticism, critics have tended to focus on the novel's historical context, but \"The Well\"'s reputation as \"\"the most depressing\" lesbian novel ever written\" persists and is still controversial. Some critics see the book as reinforcing homophobic beliefs, while others argue that the book's tragedy and its depiction of shame are its most compelling aspects.\n\n\"The Well\"s ideas and attitudes now strike many readers as dated, and few critics praise its literary quality. Nevertheless, it continues to compel critical attention, to provoke strong identification and intense emotional reactions in some readers, and to elicit a high level of personal engagement from its critics.\n\nIn Hall's time, Paris was known for having a relatively large and visible gay and lesbian community – in part because France, unlike England, had no laws against male homosexuality. Marcel Proust's novels continued in their influence upon 1920s Parisian society depicting lesbian and gay subculture. When Stephen first travels to Paris, at the urging of her friend Jonathan Brockett – who may be based on Noël Coward – she has not yet spoken about her inversion to anyone. Brockett, acting as tour guide, hints at a secret history of inversion in the city by referring to Marie Antoinette's rumoured relationship with the Princesse de Lamballe.\nBrockett next introduces Stephen to Valérie Seymour, who – like her prototype, Natalie Clifford Barney – is the hostess of a literary salon, many of whose guests are lesbians and gay men. Immediately after this meeting Stephen announces she has decided to settle in Paris at 35 Rue Jacob (purchased at Seymour's recommendation), with its temple in a corner of an overgrown garden. Barney lived and held her salon at 20 Rue Jacob. Stephen is wary of Valérie, and does not visit her salon until after the war, when Brockett persuades her that Mary is becoming too isolated. She finds Valérie to be an \"indestructible creature\" capable of bestowing a sense of self-respect on others, at least temporarily: \"everyone felt very normal and brave when they gathered together at Valérie Seymour's\". With Stephen's misgivings \"drugged\", she and Mary are drawn further into the \"desolate country\" of Paris gay life. At Alec's Bar – the worst in a series of depressing nightspots – they encounter \"the battered remnants of men who...despised of the world, must despise themselves beyond all hope, it seemed, of salvation\".\n\nMany of those familiar with the subculture she described, including her own friends, disagreed with her portrayal of it; Romaine Brooks called her \"a digger-up of worms with the pretension of a distinguished archaeologist\". Hall's correspondence shows that the negative view of bars like Alec's that she expressed in \"The Well\" was sincerely meant, but she also knew that such bars did not represent the only homosexual communities in Paris. It is a commonplace of criticism that her own experience of lesbian life was not as miserable as Stephen's. By focusing on misery and describing its cause as \"ceaseless persecution\" by \"the so-called just and righteous\", she intensified the urgency of her plea for change.\n\nAlthough Hall's author's note disclaims any real-world basis for the ambulance unit that Stephen joins, she drew heavily on the wartime experiences of her friend Toupie Lowther, co-commander of the only women's unit to serve on the front in France. Lowther, like Stephen, came from an aristocratic family, adopted a masculine style of dress, and was an accomplished fencer, tennis player, motorist and jujitsu enthusiast. In later years she said the character of Stephen was based on her, which may have been partly true.\n\nIn \"The Well of Loneliness\", war work provides a publicly acceptable role for inverted women. The narrative voice asks that their contributions not be forgotten and predicts that they will not go back into hiding: \"a battalion was formed in those terrible years that would never again be completely disbanded\". This military metaphor continues later in the novel when inverts in postwar Paris are repeatedly referred to as a \"miserable army\". Hall invokes the image of the shell-shocked soldier to depict inverts as psychologically damaged by their outcast status: \"for bombs do not trouble the nerves of the invert, but rather that terrible silent bombardment from the batteries of God's good people\".\n\nHall, who had converted to the Roman Catholic Church in 1912, was devoutly religious. She was also a believer in communication with the dead who had once hoped to become a medium – a fact that brought her into conflict with the church, which condemned spiritualism. Both these beliefs made their way into \"The Well of Loneliness\".\n\nStephen, born on Christmas Eve and named for the first martyr of Christianity, dreams as a child that \"in some queer way she [is] Jesus\". When she discovers that Collins, object of her childhood crush, has housemaid's knee, she prays that the affliction be transferred to her: \"I would like to wash Collins in my blood, Lord Jesus – I would like very much to be a Saviour to Collins – I love her, and I want to be hurt like You were\". This childish desire for martyrdom prefigures Stephen's ultimate self-sacrifice for Mary's sake. After she tricks Mary into leaving her – carrying out a plan that leads Valérie to exclaim \"you were made for a martyr!\" – Stephen, left alone in her home, sees the room thronged with inverts, living, dead and unborn. They call on her to intercede with God for them, and finally possess her. It is with their collective voice that she demands of God, \"Give us also the right to our existence\".\n\nAfter Stephen reads Krafft-Ebing in her father's library, she opens the Bible at random, seeking a sign, and reads Genesis 4:15, \"And the Lord set a mark upon Cain ...\" Hall uses the mark of Cain, a sign of shame and exile, throughout the novel as a metaphor for the situation of inverts. Her defence of inversion took the form of a religious argument: God had created inverts, so humanity should accept them. \"The Well\"'s use of religious imagery outraged the book's opponents, but Hall's vision of inversion as a God-given state was an influential contribution to the language of LGBT rights.\n\nThree publishers praised \"The Well\" but turned it down. Hall's agent then sent the manuscript to Jonathan Cape who, though cautious about publishing a controversial book, saw the potential for a commercial success. Cape tested the waters with a small print run of 1500 copies, priced at 15 shillings – about twice the cost of an average novel – to make it less attractive to sensation-seekers. Publication, originally scheduled for late 1928, was brought forward when he discovered that another novel with a lesbian theme, Compton Mackenzie's \"Extraordinary Women\", was to be published in September. Though the two books proved to have little in common, Hall and Cape saw \"Extraordinary Women\" as a competitor and wanted to beat it to market. \"The Well\" appeared on 27 July, in a black cover with a plain jacket. Cape sent review copies only to newspapers and magazines he thought would handle the subject matter non-sensationally.\n\nEarly reviews were mixed. Some critics found the novel too preachy; others, including Leonard Woolf, thought it was poorly structured, or complained of sloppiness in style. There was praise for its sincerity and artistry, and some expressed sympathy with Hall's moral argument. In the three weeks after the book appeared in bookstores, no reviewer called for its suppression or suggested that it should not have been published. A review in \"T.P.'s & Cassell's Weekly\" foresaw no difficulties for \"The Well\": \"One cannot say what effect this book will have on the public attitude of silence or derision, but every reader will agree with Mr. Havelock Ellis in the preface, that 'the poignant situations are set forth with a complete absence of offence.'\"\n\nPapers from the author's archive, which are set to be digitised by the Harry Ransom Center at the University of Texas alongside those of her partner, the artist Una Vincenzo, Lady Troubridge, show that the novel was supported by thousands of readers, who wrote to Hall in outrage at the ban.\n\nAlthough some writers in the 1970s and 1980s treated \"The Well of Loneliness\" as a thinly veiled autobiography, Hall's childhood bore little resemblance to Stephen's. Angela Crossby may be a composite of various women with whom Hall had affairs in her youth, but Mary, whose lack of outside interests leaves her idle when Stephen is working, does not resemble Hall's partner Una Troubridge, an accomplished sculptor who translated Colette's novels into English. Hall said she drew on herself only for the \"fundamental emotions that are characteristic of the inverted\".\n\nJames Douglas, editor of the \"Sunday Express\", did not agree. Douglas was a dedicated moralist, an exponent of muscular Christianity, which sought to reinvigorate the Church of England by promoting physical health and manliness. His colourfully worded editorials on subjects such as \"the flapper vote\" (that is, the extension of suffrage to women under 30) and \"modern sex novelists\" helped the \"Express\" family of papers prosper in the cutthroat circulation wars of the late 1920s. These leader articles shared the pages of the \"Sunday Express\" with gossip, murderers' confessions, and features about the love affairs of great men and women of the past.\nDouglas's campaign against \"The Well of Loneliness\" began on 18 August, with poster and billboard advertising and a teaser in the \"Daily Express\" promising to expose \"A Book That Should Be Suppressed\". In his editorial the next day, Douglas wrote that \"sexual inversion and perversion\" had already become too visible and that the publication of \"The Well\" brought home the need for society to \"cleans[e] itself from the leprosy of these lepers\". For Douglas the sexological view of homosexuality was pseudoscience, incompatible with the Christian doctrine of free will; instead, he argued, homosexuals were damned by their own choice – which meant that others could be corrupted by \"their propaganda\". Above all, children must be protected: \"I would rather give a healthy boy or a healthy girl a phial of prussic acid than this novel. Poison kills the body, but moral poison kills the soul.\" He called on the publishers to withdraw the book and the Home Secretary to take action if they did not.\n\nIn what Hall described as an act of \"imbecility coupled with momentary panic\", Jonathan Cape sent a copy of \"The Well\" to the Home Secretary for his opinion, offering to withdraw the book if it would be in the public interest to do so. The Home Secretary was William Joynson-Hicks, a Conservative known for his crackdowns on alcohol, nightclubs and gambling, as well as for his opposition to a revised version of \"The Book of Common Prayer\". He took only two days to reply that \"The Well\" was \"gravely detrimental to the public interest\"; if Cape did not withdraw it voluntarily, criminal proceedings would be brought.\n\nCape announced that he had stopped publication, but he secretly leased the rights to Pegasus Press, an English-language publisher in France. His partner Wren Howard took papier-mâché moulds of the type to Paris, and by 28 September, Pegasus Press was shipping its edition to the London bookseller Leopold Hill, who acted as distributor. With publicity increasing demand, sales were brisk, but the reappearance of \"The Well\" on bookshop shelves soon came to the attention of the Home Office. On 3 October Joynson-Hicks issued a warrant for shipments of the book to be seized.\n\nOne consignment of 250 copies was stopped at Dover. Then the Chairman of the Board of Customs balked. He had read \"The Well\" and considered it a fine book, not at all obscene; he wanted no part of suppressing it. On 19 October he released the seized copies for delivery to Leopold Hill's premises, where the Metropolitan Police were waiting with a search warrant. Hill and Cape were summoned to appear at Bow Street Magistrates' Court to show cause why the book should not be destroyed.\n\nFrom its beginning, the \"Sunday Express\"s campaign drew the attention of other papers. Some backed Douglas, including the \"Sunday Chronicle\", \"The People\" and \"Truth\". The \"Daily News and Westminster Gazette\" ran a review that, without commenting on Douglas's action, said the novel \"present[ed] as a martyr a woman in the grip of a vice\". Most of the British press defended \"The Well\". \"The Nation\" suggested that the \"Sunday Express\" had only started its campaign because it was August, the journalistic silly season when good stories are scarce. \"Country Life\" and \"Lady's Pictorial\" both ran positive reviews. Arnold Dawson of the \"Daily Herald\", a Labour newspaper, called Douglas a \"stunt journalist\"; he said no one would give the book to a child, no child would want to read it, and any who did would find nothing harmful. Dawson also printed a scathing condemnation of the Home Office by H. G. Wells and George Bernard Shaw and started a counter-campaign that helped Hall obtain statements of support from the National Union of Railwaymen and the South Wales Miners' Federation.\nLeonard Woolf and E. M. Forster drafted a letter of protest against the suppression of \"The Well\", assembling a list of supporters that included Shaw, T. S. Eliot, Arnold Bennett, Vera Brittain and Ethel Smyth. According to Virginia Woolf, the plan broke down when Hall objected to the wording of the letter, insisting it mention her book's \"artistic merit – even genius\". \"The Well\"s sentimental romanticism, traditional form, and lofty style – using words like \"withal\", \"betoken\" and \"hath\" – did not appeal to Modernist aesthetics; not all those willing to defend it on grounds of literary freedom were equally willing to praise its artistry. The petition dwindled to a short letter in \"The Nation and Athenaeum\", signed by Forster and Virginia Woolf, that focused on the chilling effects of censorship on writers.\n\nThe obscenity trial began on 9 November 1928. Cape's solicitor Harold Rubinstein sent out 160 letters to potential witnesses. Many were reluctant to appear in court; according to Virginia Woolf, \"they generally put it down to the weak heart of a father, or a cousin who is about to have twins\". About 40 turned up on the day of the trial, including Woolf herself, Forster, and such diverse figures as biologist Julian Huxley, Laurence Housman of the British Sexological Society, Robert Cust JP of the London Morality Council, Charles Ricketts of the Royal Academy of Art and Rabbi Joseph Frederick Stern of the East London Synagogue. Norman Haire, who was the star witness after Havelock Ellis bowed out, declared that homosexuality ran in families and a person could no more become it by reading books than if he could become syphilitic by reading about syphilis. None were allowed to offer their views of the novel. Under the Obscene Publications Act of 1857, Chief Magistrate Sir Chartres Biron could decide whether the book was obscene without hearing any testimony on the question. \"I don't think people are entitled to express an opinion upon a matter which is the decision of the court,\" he said. Since Hall herself was not on trial, she did not have the right to her own counsel, and Cape's barrister Norman Birkett had persuaded her not to give evidence herself.\n\nBirkett arrived in court two hours late. In his defence, he tried to claim that the relationships between women in \"The Well of Loneliness\" were purely platonic in nature. Biron replied, \"I have read the book.\" Hall had urged Birkett before the trial not to \"\"sell\" the inverts in our defence\". She took advantage of a lunch recess to tell him that if he continued to maintain her book had no lesbian content she would stand up in court and tell the magistrate the truth before anyone could stop her. Birkett was forced to retract. He argued instead that the book was tasteful and possessed a high degree of literary merit. James Melville, appearing for Leopold Hill, took a similar line: the book was \"written in a reverend spirit\", not to inspire libidinous thoughts but to examine a social question. The theme itself should not be forbidden, and the book's treatment of its theme was unexceptionable.\n\nIn his judgement, issued on 16 November, Biron applied the Hicklin test of obscenity: a work was obscene if it tended to \"deprave and corrupt those whose minds are open to such immoral influences\". He held that the book's literary merit was irrelevant because a well-written obscene book was even more harmful than a poorly written one. The topic in itself was not necessarily unacceptable; a book that depicted the \"moral and physical degradation which indulgence in those vices must necessary involve\" might be allowed, but no reasonable person could say that a plea for the recognition and toleration of inverts was not obscene. He ordered the book destroyed, with the defendants to pay court costs.\n\nHill and Cape appealed to the London Court of Quarter Sessions. The prosecutor, Attorney General Sir Thomas Inskip, solicited testimony from biological and medical experts and from the writer Rudyard Kipling. But when Kipling appeared on the morning of the trial, Inskip told him he would not be needed. James Melville had wired the defence witnesses the night before to tell them not to come in. The panel of twelve magistrates who heard the appeal had to rely on passages Inskip read to them for knowledge of the book, since the Director of Public Prosecutions had refused to release copies for them to read. After deliberating for only five minutes, they upheld Biron's decision.\n\n\"The Sink of Solitude\", an anonymous lampoon in verse by \"several hands\", appeared in late 1928. It satirised both sides of the controversy over \"The Well of Loneliness\", but its primary targets were Douglas and Joynson-Hicks, \"Two \"Good\" Men – never mind their intellect\". Though the introduction, by journalist P. R. Stephensen, described \"The Well\"s moral argument as \"feeble\" and dismissed Havelock Ellis as a \"psychopath\", \"The Sink\" itself endorsed the view that lesbianism was innate:\n\nIt portrayed Hall as a humourless moralist who had a great deal in common with the opponents of her novel. One illustration, picking up on the theme of religious martyrdom in \"The Well\", showed Hall nailed to a cross. The image horrified Hall; her guilt at being depicted in a drawing that she saw as blasphemous led to her choice of a religious subject for her next novel, \"The Master of the House\".\n\nAlfred A. Knopf, Inc. had planned to publish \"The Well of Loneliness\" in the United States at the same time as Cape in the United Kingdom. But after Cape brought forward the publication date, Knopf found itself in the position of publishing a book that had been withdrawn in its home country. They refused, telling Hall that nothing they could do would keep the book from being treated as pornography.\n\nCape sold the US rights to the recently formed publishing house of Pascal Covici and Donald Friede. Friede had heard gossip about \"The Well\" at a party at Theodore Dreiser's house and immediately decided to acquire it. He had previously sold a copy of Dreiser's \"An American Tragedy\" to a Boston police officer to create a censorship test case, which he had lost; he was awaiting an appeal, which he would also lose. He took out a $10,000 bank loan to outbid another publisher which had offered a $7,500 advance, and enlisted Morris Ernst, co-founder of the American Civil Liberties Union, to defend the book against legal challenges. Friede invited John Saxton Sumner of the New York Society for the Suppression of Vice to buy a copy directly from him, to ensure that he, not a bookseller, would be the one prosecuted. He also travelled to Boston to give a copy to the Watch and Ward Society, hoping both to further challenge censorship of literature and to generate more publicity; he was disappointed when they told him they saw nothing wrong with the book.\nIn New York, Sumner and several police detectives seized 865 copies of \"The Well\" from the publisher's offices, and Friede was charged with selling an obscene publication. But Covici and Friede had already moved the printing plates out of New York in order to continue publishing the book. By the time the case came to trial, it had already been reprinted six times. Despite its price of $5 – twice the cost of an average novel – it sold more than 100,000 copies in its first year.\n\nIn the US, as in the UK, the Hicklin test of obscenity applied, but New York case law had established that books should be judged by their effects on adults rather than on children and that literary merit was relevant. Ernst obtained statements from authors including Dreiser, Ernest Hemingway, F. Scott Fitzgerald, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Sinclair Lewis, Sherwood Anderson, H. L. Mencken, Upton Sinclair, Ellen Glasgow and John Dos Passos. Besides, freedom of expression was protected by the First Amendment of the United States Constitution. To make sure these supporters did not go unheard, he incorporated their opinions into his brief. His argument relied on a comparison with \"Mademoiselle de Maupin\" by Théophile Gautier, which had been cleared of obscenity in the 1922 case \"Halsey v. New York\". \"Mademoiselle de Maupin\" described a lesbian relationship in more explicit terms than \"The Well\" did. According to Ernst, \"The Well\" had greater social value because it was more serious in tone and made a case against misunderstanding and intolerance.\n\nIn an opinion issued on 19 February 1929, Magistrate Hyman Bushel declined to take the book's literary qualities into account and said \"The Well\" was \"calculated to deprave and corrupt minds open to its immoral influences\". Under New York law, Bushel was not a trier of fact; he could only remand the case to the New York Court of Special Sessions for judgement. On 19 April, that court issued a three-paragraph decision stating that \"The Well\"'s theme – a \"delicate social problem\" – did not violate the law unless written in such a way as to make it obscene. After \"a careful reading of the entire book\", they cleared it of all charges.\n\nCovici-Friede then imported a copy of the Pegasus Press edition from France as a further test case and to solidify the book's US copyright. Customs barred the book from entering the country, which might also have prevented it from being shipped from state to state. The United States Customs Court ruled that the book did not contain \"one word, phrase, sentence or paragraph which could be truthfully pointed out as offensive to modesty\".\n\nThe Pegasus Press edition of the book remained available in France, and some copies made their way into the UK. In a \"Letter from Paris\" in \"The New Yorker\", Janet Flanner reported that it sold most heavily at the news vendor's cart that served passengers travelling to London on \"La Fleche D'Or\".\n\nIn 1946, three years after Hall's death, Troubridge wanted to include \"The Well\" in a Collected Memorial Edition of Hall's works. Peter Davies of the Windmill Press wrote to the Home Office's legal adviser to ask whether the post-war Labour administration would allow the book to be republished. Unknown to Troubridge, he added a postscript saying \"I am not really anxious to do \"The Well of Loneliness\" and am rather relieved than otherwise by any lack of enthusiasm I may encounter in official circles.\" Home Secretary James Chuter Ede told Troubridge that any publisher reprinting the book would risk prosecution. In 1949 Falcon Press brought out an edition with no legal challenge. \"The Well\" has been in print continuously ever since and has been translated into at least 14 languages. In the 1960s it was still selling 100,000 copies a year in the United States alone. Looking back on the controversy in 1972, Flanner remarked on how unlikely it seemed that a \"rather innocent\" book like \"The Well\" could have created such a scandal. In 1974, it was read to the British public on BBC Radio 4's \"Book at Bedtime\".\n\nThe copyright protection for \"The Well of Loneliness\" expired in the European Union on 1 January 2014. Because of the URAA, copyright protection in the United States will continue until at least 2024.\n\nThree other novels with lesbian themes were published in England in 1928: Elizabeth Bowen's \"The Hotel\", Virginia Woolf's \"\" and Compton Mackenzie's satirical novel \"Extraordinary Women\". None were banned. \"The Hotel\", like earlier English novels in which critics have identified lesbian themes, is marked by complete reticence, while \"Orlando\" may have been protected by its Modernist playfulness. The Home Office considered prosecuting \"Extraordinary Women\", but concluded that it lacked the \"earnestness\" of \"The Well\" and would not inspire readers to adopt \"the practices referred to\". Mackenzie was disappointed; he had hoped a censorship case would increase his book's sales. Despite advertising that tried to cash in on the controversy over \"The Well\" by announcing that Radclyffe Hall was the model for one of the characters, it sold only 2,000 copies.\n\nA fourth 1928 novel, \"Ladies Almanack\" by the American writer Djuna Barnes, not only contains a character based on Radclyffe Hall but includes passages that may be a response to \"The Well\". \"Ladies Almanack\" is a \"roman à clef\" of a lesbian literary and artistic circle in Paris, written in an archaic, Rabelaisian style and starring Natalie Barney as Dame Evangeline Musset. Much as Sir Phillip paces his study worrying about Stephen, Dame Musset's father \"pac[es] his library in the most normal of Night-Shirts\". When, unlike Sir Phillip, he confronts his daughter, she replies confidently: \"Thou, good Governor, wast expecting a Son when you lay atop of your Choosing ... Am I not doing after your very Desire, and is it not the more commendable, seeing that I do it without the Tools for the Trade, and yet nothing complain?\" \"Ladies Almanack\" is far more overtly sexual than \"The Well\"; its cryptic style, full of in-jokes and ornate language, may have been intended to disguise its content from censors. It could not in any case be prosecuted by the Home Office, since it was published only in France, in a small, privately printed edition. It did not become widely available until 1972.\n\nWillette Kershaw, an American actress who was staging banned plays in Paris, proposed a dramatisation of \"The Well of Loneliness\". Hall accepted a £100 advance, but when she and Troubridge saw Kershaw act, they found her too feminine for the role of Stephen. Hall tried to void the contract on a technicality, but Kershaw refused to change her plans. The play opened on 2 September 1930. No playwright was credited, implying that Hall had written the adaptation herself; it was actually written by one of Kershaw's ex-husbands, who reworked the story to make it more upbeat. According to Janet Flanner, who reported on the opening night for \"The New Yorker\", Kershaw \"made up in costume what she lacked in psychology\", with designer boots, breeches and riding crop. Then she changed into a white dress for a final speech in which she \"begged humanity, 'already used to earthquakes and murderers', to try to put up with a minor calamity like the play's and the book's Lesbian protagonist, Stephen Gordon\". Hall threatened a lawsuit to stop the production, but the issue soon became moot, since the play closed after only a few nights. The public skirmish between Hall and Kershaw increased sales of the novel.\n\nA 1951 French film set in a girls' boarding school was released in the United States as \"The Pit of Loneliness\" to capitalise on the notoriety of \"The Well\", but was actually adapted from the novel \"Olivia\", now known to have been written by Dorothy Bussy. A mid-1930s exploitation film, \"Children of Loneliness\", stated it was \"inspired by\" \"The Well\". Little of Hall's novel can be discerned in its story of a butch lesbian who is blinded with acid and run over by a truck, freeing the naïve young roommate she seduced to find love with a fullback. A critic for the \"Motion Picture Herald\" reported that during the film's run in Los Angeles in 1937 – as a double feature with \"Love Life of a Gorilla\" – a self-identified \"doctor\" appeared after the screening to sell pamphlets purporting to explain homosexuality. He was arrested for selling obscene literature.\n\nIn 1983, American performance artist Holly Hughes wrote a satirical play, \"The Well of Horniness\", whose title is inspired by that of Hall's novel. The play is described as \"a high-camp, low-brow Sapphic murder mystery\" presented \"in the cliff-hanging style of an old-time radio show.\"\n\nIn 1985, the Mexican writer and social activist Nancy Cárdenas produced a play based on the novel. The play was staged in Mexico City's Fru Fru Theatre and was performed by Irma Serrano and Sonia Infante.\n\nIn the novel, a young Stephen disparages the lack of \"really adequate pockets\" in the feminine dresses and sashes she is forced to wear. At the end of the nineteenth century, sartorial changes in the dress of the New Woman included the development of accessible pockets in dresses as part of rational dressing, and in her article, Janet Myers discusses how pockets were depicted in magazine caricatures of the time as indicative of the more masculine, undesirable New Woman of sexual degeneracy. It is of interest to note that this problem from 1928 largely persists in women's clothing today.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860577", "title": "Clementine (disambiguation)", "text": "Clementine (disambiguation)\n\nA clementine is a hybrid citrus fruit, a cross between a mandarin and an orange.\n\nClementine may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860579", "title": "Agave parryi", "text": "Agave parryi\n\nAgave parryi, known as Parry's agave or mescal agave, is a flowering plant in the family Asparagaceae. It is a slow-growing succulent perennial native to Arizona, New Mexico, and northern Mexico.\n\nThe leaves are grey green and have a spine at the tip. One of the distinguishing features is that the point on the tip, which is typically dark tan, brown, or black, is darker than the leaf. Indentations of previous leaves show on the back of each leaf. The Huachuca variety grows in a rosette pattern as large as 2½ feet in diameter.\n\nBecause of its compact size, plus its low water use and low maintenance, Huachuca agave is considered a good landscaping plant for desert residential landscaping. It requires full sun. It is hardy to roughly , though there are reports of specimens surviving temperatures at .\n\nParry's agave is evergreen. Aged agave produce a twelve-foot stalk with bright yellow blooms. They then die after blooming, as all leaf and root resources are put into the stalk, flowers, and seeds. It can be propagated by either offset or seed.\n\nThis plant has gained the Royal Horticultural Society’s Award of Garden Merit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860580", "title": "Exterminator (horse)", "text": "Exterminator (horse)\n\nExterminator (May 30, 1915 – September 26, 1945) was an American Thoroughbred Hall of Fame racehorse, the winner of the 1918 Kentucky Derby and in 1922 of Horse of the Year honors.\n\nThe lanky chestnut colt was bred by F. D. \"Dixie\" Knight (Mrs. M.J. Mizner, Knight's mother, was said to be the actual breeder) and foaled at Almahurst Farm near Lexington, Kentucky. Exterminator was sired by McGee, who also produced Donerail, the winner of the 1913 Kentucky Derby. At the Saratoga Paddock sale of 1916, he was bought as a yearling for $1,500 by J. Cal Milam who trained his own horses. The big colt grew fast, reaching at two but he was awkward and coarse looking. For this reason, Milam had him gelded.\n\nOn June 30, 1917 at Latonia Race Track in Covington, Kentucky, Exterminator made his debut in a six-furlong maiden race that he won by three lengths. Sent to race in Windsor, Ontario, Canada, he suffered a muscle sprain and Milam gave him time off to grow into his size, which by now was 17 hands. Still, he had earned $1,500 and a potential nomination to the Kentucky Derby.\n\nBefore Exterminator could begin his third season, Milam sold him to Willis Sharpe Kilmer for $9,000 and a pair of fillies, quite a bit of money for the times, especially as Kilmer had only authorized his future U.S. Hall of Fame trainer, Henry McDaniel, to pay about $700 for a \"workhorse.\" Kilmer bought Exterminator to help his prized colt Sun Briar in his workouts. (Kilmer had purchased his colt at the same sale Milam bought his, but for $5,000.)\n\nKilmer didn't think much of his new purchase; he called him \"that truck horse\" or \"the goat.\" In workouts, Exterminator was supposed to stay behind Sun Briar merely to urge him on to greater effort, but he ran easily beside the other horse unless held back. Sun Briar had topped his juvenile division, winning 5 of 9 starts and being named U.S. Two-yr-Old Champion Colt. McDaniel was impressed by Exterminator and considered him the most intelligent thoroughbred he had ever known.\n\nAs the Derby approached, Sun Briar developed ringbone and Kilmer suddenly had no horse for the race. McDaniel urged him to enter Exterminator, but Kilmer wouldn't hear of running \"that goat\" in his colors. It took Colonel Matt Winn, president of Churchill Downs, to convince him. Winn had seen the colt's workouts and was very impressed.\n\nThe morning of the race, it poured with rain, and the track was deep in mud. Exterminator had not raced since age two, and none of his races could be considered a suitable prep for the prestigious Kentucky Derby. Ridden by a disappointed Willie Knapp, who'd expected to be up on Sun Briar, Exterminator went off at odds of 30-1 to the heavily favored War Cloud. Exterminator raced at the back until the field turned for home, when he launched his bid. Nearing the wire, he passed Escoba and won the Derby by a length.\n\nWillie Knapp became an instant fan of the tall chestnut gelding. Many years later, he said of the champion: \"When he was at his best, Exterminator could have beaten Man o' War or Citation or Kelso or any other horse that ever lived on any track doing anything.\"\n\nWhen Man o' War was three, Kilmer tried to arrange a match race between him and Exterminator. Man o' War's owner, Samuel Riddle, seemed to agree, but the race never took place.\n\nAs a gelding, Exterminator competed in 99 races, winning 50 while finishing second and third 17 times each. His lifetime earnings amounted to $252,996. Beaten in the Brooklyn Handicap by Grey Lag once, Exterminator got better as he got older and later defeated Grey Lag in the same race. Following the retirement of trainer Henry McDaniel, in 1921 Willie Knapp took over as trainer of Exterminator and won five stakes races with the horse.\n\nFound frequently and in long-time error is the assertion that Exterminator started in 100 races. Per the research and subsequent book \"Exterminator\" (#18 in the Thoroughbred Legends series), author Eva Jolene Boyd reviewed all records of his starts and the record keeping by the \"Daily Racing Form\" and found evidence that he only had 99 official racing starts.\n\nIn addition, the local paper in Binghamton, New York, (where Exterminator spent his final years) noted upon his death in their front-page coverage that he had only 99 lifetime starts.\n\nThe 100th \"start\" was an exhibition run by Exterminator alone at Hawthorne Race Course in Cicero, Illinois, in September 1922. It was not for purse money, and none of his win, place or show finishes is affected by this walkover effort in a public workout.\n\nRacing until the age of 9, a relatively old age for a race horse, Exterminator was called by his many fans \"Old Bones\" or \"The Galloping Hatrack\" (amongst the stable lads, he was \"Old Shang\"). He was retired in 1924 to a life of grass and leisure, with a succession of companion ponies, all named Peanuts, at his side.\n\nExterminator lived in his private barn at Court Manor in Virginia until Kilmer's death in 1940, after which he was moved to Binghamton, New York. He died at the age of thirty on September 26, 1945, in his stall at Sun Briar Court, which has since been razed. At the time of his death, it was reported that he was buried beside several of the companion ponies (all named \"Peanuts\") although no markers exist today reflecting their grave. Exterminator's grave stone is in the former La France Pet Cemetery, now renamed Whispering Pines Pet Cemetery, Binghamton, New York, and is shared with the fellow Kilmer-owned and -raced horses Sun Briar (b. 1915 - d.1943) and the mare Suntica (b. 1929 - d. 1947).\n\nIn 1957, Exterminator was inducted into the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame.\n\n\"The Blood-Horse\" ranking of the top 100 U.S. thoroughbred champions of the 20th Century put him at #29.\n\nHis career record of 33 stakes wins has never been broken by any thoroughbred raced in North America.\n\nA children's book was written about him: \"Old Bones, the Wonder Horse\", written by Mildred Mastin Pace and published by McGraw-Hill in 1955 with illustrations by Wesley Dennis. It was reissued in 1983 as a paperback by the Scholastic Book Services.\n\n\"Here Comes Exterminator!: The Longshot Horse, The Great War, and the Making of an American Hero\", written by Eliza McGraw, was published in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1860585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860585", "title": "Copernicia prunifera", "text": "Copernicia prunifera\n\nCopernicia prunifera or the carnaúba palm or carnaubeira palm () is a species of palm tree native to northeastern Brazil (mainly the states of Ceará, Piauí, Maranhão, Rio Grande do Norte and Bahia). Known by many as 'tree of life' because of its many uses, the Carnaúba is also the symbol tree of Ceará. The initiative to use it as a symbol vies to promote its conservation and sustainable use.\n\n\"Copernica prunifera\" can grow up to 20 m height with an average 25 cm diameter trunk,circular tree crown, with fan-leaves measuring 1.5m, bisexual flowers and small black round fruits (2.5 cm). The palm can live up to 200 years.\nAlthough it withstands drought well, it has a high water requirement for growth. A slightly saline composition in the soil produces the best trees. Carnaubas are social palm trees, they are found in Carnaubais (assembly/group of Carnaubas) in flood zones or near rivers. \nTaxonomically, this tree belongs to the subfamily Coryphoideae, tribe Corypheae, subtribe Livistoninae.\n\nThe Carnauba palm tree is an endemic species to the Caatinga, an exclusive Brazilian biome, comprising a total area of 826,411 km². The latter is present in eight of the nine Northeastern states: Piauí, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte,Paraiba, Pernambuco, Alagoas, Sergipe, Bahia\nand it is also present in a northern strip of Minas Gerais. Caatinga covers approximately 10% of the national territory and 70% of the\nNortheast region, and borders with three other biomes in the country, the Amazon, the Atlantic Rainforest and the so called\n“Cerrado” (Brazilian savannah). A semiarid climate prevails in the Caatinga, with approximately 800 mm of poorly distributed rainfall per year, resulting in long periods of drought.\nThe carnauba palm tree, is an easily adaptable species and, thus, is spread over large territories, greatly impacting the locations.\nBesides economic and cultural impacts, it has a remarkable ecological influence of this northeastern palm on the environments.\nThe fact that the carnauba palm tree is species that grows along rivers and streams in general, helps to prevent siltation in the\nwater bodies and to control soil erosion in the areas where it is located.\nThe fruits of the carnauba palm tree serve as food for animals such as bats, pigs, wild hogs and some Psittacidae (parrots and parakeets),\none of the best assisting factors in spreading the seeds of this species. Bees also consume nectar and pollen from its flowers to make\nhoney, helping to pollinate this species.Nevertheless, the relationship between the carnauba palm tree and animals is not limited to feeding, but is also related to aiding migration processes and balancing the ecosystem. Birds, for example, often use this palm tree to nest and rest when flocking.\n\nIt is the source of carnauba wax, which is harvested as a natural coating from the surface of the leaves of the tree. The fruit and pith are eaten, the leaves are variously utilized and the wood is a construction material.\n\nCarnauba produces several materials that have versatile applications. Its fruits can be used as feed to cattle, donkeys, goats and pigs or can also be used to produce jelly for human consumption. The pulp is extracted and dried to produce carnauba flour, largely consumed by natives.\nCooking oil can be extracted from the seeds, which are also edible. When roasted, fruits are ground and brewed to replace coffee.\n\nNonetheless, the most important product of the Carnauba tree is its wax. Extracted from its leaves, the Carnauba wax can be used in floor, leather, furniture, car and shoe polish and enters into the manufacturer of carbon paper, candles, chalk, matches, soap and woodwork stains.\nCarnauba wax consists of myricyl cerotate and small quantities of cerotic acid and myricyl alcohol. \nAfter harvesting, the leaves are left upon the field to dry under the sun. The thin layer of wax coating plant material disintegrates into a powder, which is then separated through beating and whisking the dried leaves. The powder is concentrated in a mortar, to be mixed with water and melted to produce liquid wax. After drying it is concentrated into chunks and sold.\n\nThe leaf fibers are a byproduct of the wax production, known as \"bagana\". The biomass can be used as compost, soil coverage to maintain humidity, or compressed into biofuel briquettes with a high energy content for power generation. The leaf fibers, or \"palha\", are also woven in the manufacture of objects such as hats, baskets, bags and many others domestic products (Steinle and Johnson, 1935; Duke and duCellier). These handicraft products are beloved by tourists and represent an important source of income to the local population. The wax palm leaves can also be used in rustic roof making.\n\nDue to the natural resistance against the most common wood pests, such as termites, Carnauba Wood is a valued local construction material. Although it is mainly used by people with low income, its function in beach tents – not only as central pillar/column/post, but also as the leaf roof – is very common.\n\nIt withstands drought well. A slightly saline composition in the soil produces the best trees.\n\nTo produce wax, harvesting operations have to be employed during the dry season to assure complete drying of the leaves. The harvest is normally done from August to December. However, during periods of longer winters, the harvest may be delayed. \nA Carnuaba palm tree can produce up to 60 leaves per plant, especially after a very intense rainy season. \nHarvested with a long pole ending in a hooked blade (Figure 1), the top leaves are removed for superior wax content. To maintain sustainable production of Carnauba, cuttings are performed three times a year, in 80 day intervals from each tree.\nProduction of Carnauba-derived materials dropped in the beginning of the 1970s, especially due to the invention of synthetic and petroleum products. Since then, the production has increased in the beginning of the 2000s and reached around 20,000 tons of powder and around 2,500 tons of wax, which has been sustained since then.\n\nCarnauba economical activity includes the extraction and utilization of leaves, stem, tale and fibre, fruits and roots. These materials are all manufacturated into crafted and industrialized products.\nHowever, the powder used in wax production is the most profitable part of the plant due to great market interest.\nThe production of Carnauba is mainly found in Northeastern Brazil, especially in the Rio Grande do Norte state (5%), Ceará state (35%) and in Piauí state (45%). Brazil is the only exporting country, and the main importers are Japan, United States and also Europe.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860606", "title": "List of compositions by Rebecca Clarke", "text": "List of compositions by Rebecca Clarke\n\nThe following is a list of compositions by Rebecca Clarke. The works are categorized by genre, date of composition and title.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860610", "title": "Crissy Field", "text": "Crissy Field\n\nCrissy Field, a former U.S. Army airfield, is now part of the Golden Gate National Recreation Area in San Francisco, California, United States. Historically part of the Presidio of San Francisco, Crissy Field closed as an airfield after 1974. Under Army control, the site was affected by dumping of hazardous materials. The National Park Service took control of the area in 1994 and, together with the Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy, worked to restore the site until 2001, when the Crissy Field Center was opened to the public. While most buildings have been preserved as they were in the 1920s, some have been transformed into offices, retail space, and residences.\n\nThe land Crissy Field resides on is an ancient salt marsh and estuary. Prior to European settlement, the Ohlone people used the area for harvesting shellfish and fish. They also lived in seasonal camps in the area, leaving behind shell middens in the archaeological record. The Spanish arrived in 1776 and called the area El Presidio. They began to use the area for livestock grazing and agriculture. The marsh site was filled in during the 1870s. This alteration was finished in time for the 1915 Panama Pacific International Exposition. The U.S. Army took control of the Presidio in 1846, using the tidal wetland as a wasteland for dumping and draining. After filling in the marshlands, the Army covered over it and created an aerodrome.\n\nDuring World War I the Army constructed numerous temporary buildings on the site of the 1915 Panama–Pacific International Exposition at the Presidio of San Francisco and linked it to Fort Mason with a rail spur. In July 1918 Congress passed Public Law 189 to establish eight \"air coast defense stations\" and appropriated $1.5 million for the construction of one of them at the Presidio, to protect San Francisco Bay. In June 1919 the Army assigned Colonel Henry H. Arnold of the Air Service as Air Officer, Western Department, and directed him to convene a board of four officers to select the site. The board chose the former exposition site as much for its sheltered beach to protect seaplane operations as the fact that the infield of its racetrack was already in use as an aviation field. Although the wartime appropriations were reduced by the end of the war, demolition of buildings posing a landing hazard began in the fall of 1919.\n\nThe east-west clay and sand landing field was kidney-shaped with the outline of the racetrack still visible. The western end of the field featured hangars, workshops and a garage for the army. To the immediate east along the southern edge was the guardhouse in Classical/Mediterranean Revival Style architecture, the administrative building in American Craftsman/Mediterranean Revival, and a two-story enlisted barracks in Mission Revival Style. The bluff overlooking the field had the row of officer's quarters. Arnold led the effort to name the facility \"Crissy Field\" in memory of Major Dana H. Crissy, the base commander of Mather Field, California. Crissy and his observer died on 8 October 1919 in the crash of their de Havilland DH-4B while attempting a landing at Salt Lake City, Utah, during a 61-airplane \"transcontinental reliability and endurance test\" conducted by the Air Service from the Presidio's field and Roosevelt Field, New York. Construction proceeded throughout 1920, including a seaplane ramp adjacent to the Coast Guard Station on the grounds, and the Army accepted the facility on June 24, 1921, as a sub-post of the Presidio. The first unit assigned to the field, the 91st Observation Squadron, arrived from Mather in August, and the first commanding officer, Major George H. Brett, in October.\n\nIn the early years, Crissy Field involved mainly the viewing of artillery fire, aerial photography, liaison flights for headquarter personnel, special civilian missions such as publicity flights and search and rescues, and a support field for U.S. Air Mail. The first Western aerial forest fire patrols took place from Crissy Field.\n\nThe first successful dawn-to-dusk transcontinental flight across the United States ended at Crissy Field in June 1924. That same year, the army's first aerial circumnavigation of the world stopped at Crissy Field, and Lowell H. Smith, who was stationed at the field, led the flyers upon their return. In 1925, two Navy flying boats led by Commander John Rodgers took off from Crissy Field, marking the first attempt to fly from the continental United States to Hawaii. The flight was expected to take 26-hours, but it took twelve days when the PN-9 ran out of fuel short of land, and crew and aircraft had to be rescued at sea. Two years later Air Corps Lieutenants Lester Maitland and Albert Hegenberger flew non-stop to Hawaii in the \"Bird of Paradise\", a specially modified transport plane, after staging at Crissy Field.\n\nOriginally, Crissy Field was considered ideal for air operations. However, wind and fog often made for poor flying conditions, construction of the Golden Gate Bridge threatened to make local flights more difficult, and the runway was too short for more heavily loaded aircraft. The Army also considered Crissy Field vulnerable to possible enemy ship attacks due to its location on the water's edge of the San Francisco Bay. In 1936, Hamilton Field opened in Marin County, and while Crissy Field ceased to be a first-line air base, air operations continued until the 1970s.\n\nWhen the air corps left, the administration building served as the headquarters for the 30th Infantry Regiment, and the landing field was used as an assembly area for troop mobilization. During World War II, temporary wooden barracks and classrooms were built on site for the army's Military Intelligence Service Language School. Nisei soldiers were also trained as battlefield interpreters, as well.\n\nAfter World War II a paved runway replaced the grass landing field and the Sixth Army Flight Detachment used Crissy Field for light utility and passenger planes, and helicopter operations. During the Vietnam war the Army used Crissy Field for liaison flights and MedEvac flights to transport wounded Vietnam soldiers from Travis Air Force Base to the Presidio's Letterman Army Hospital, a trip by ambulance on surface roads would take too long and possibly be delayed by traffic into San Francisco. At the end of the Vietnam war in 1974 the Army closed Crissy Field to airplanes, though helicopter operations continued for several years.\n\nAs part of a national reduction in the number of functioning military bases, the Army decommissioned the Presidio in 1994, leaving Crissy Field “a jumble of asphalt and forsaken buildings” in the hands of the National Park Service.\"\n\nIn 1994 the National Park Service (NPS) took over the Presidio, and Crissy Field was declared a \"derelict concrete wasteland\" by NPS. Due to environmental concerns about the former airfield, NPS and the Environmental Protection Agency used funds to monitor the area's chemical, biological and physical variables. NPS eventually worked with the Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy to revitalize the area and the Crissy Field Center was opened to the public in 2001.\n\nSan Francisco landscape architecture firm Hargreaves Associates was in charge of restoration of Crissy Field. The principal landscape architects were George Hargreaves and Mary Margaret Jones. Hargreaves and Jones advocated an \"ecological approach to planning, the preservation and restoration of natural systems, and the notion of sustainable landscape.\" During the planning stages of the project, Hargreaves and Associates participated in public meetings and feedback session to interface with the local community.\n\nThe largest contribution for the restoration of Crissy Field came from the Evelyn and Walter Haas Jr. and Harold and Mimi Haas Foundations, totaling $18 million ($13.5 million from the Haas, Jr. Fund and $4.5 million from Colleen and Robert Haas), eclipsing the NPS’s $16 million. Pledged in 1997 this grant was the largest cash gift in National Park Service history at that time. The rest of the money came from members of the public. Some 2,400 people made donations towards the $34.4 million raised for Crissy Field, of which 2,200 were $100 or less. Since it reopened in 2001, the Haas Fund granted an additional $1.5 million in 2007 and $2.5 million in 2015.\nExperts handled specialized work such as the design and construction process, removal of hazardous materials, and testing and monitoring of the estuary and marsh, but those parts of the project that could be shared were delegated to the wider community of stakeholders. Approximately 3,000 volunteers, ranging from neighbors to elementary students, spent 2,400 hours planting 100,000 plants representing 73 native species.\n\nCrissy Field presented the challenge of the “restoration of a culturally significant grass military airfield” overlapping much of the same landscape as the tidal marsh, effecting “the ability to restore the marsh to the pre-military configuration, to an idealized ‘natural’ condition.\" In order to create the new site, 87,000 tons of hazardous materials were removed from the site itself and the tidal wetlands were redesigned to simulate the wetlands that existed before the military appropriated the site and used the area as a dump and landfill location. The site provides great views of the San Francisco bay area, Alcatraz and the Golden Gate Bridge.\n\nThe completed Crissy Field reopened in 2001. New and rebuilt sidewalks, boardwalks, and trails connect the field north to Fort Point, the Warming Hut (a cafe), and south to the Crissy Field Center, an environmental education center, and the Marina District. Since that time many buildings were restored and leased out as housing, office space, retail, and recreational facilities. The old temporary wood barracks were demolished and the grass airfield restored. Letterman Army Hospital, a large concrete structure, literally was ground to dust and the concrete recycled. In its place George Lucas relocated Industrial Light & Magic.\n\nCrissy Field is now part of an urban national park, which, due to its location and scenic views, is popular with both locals and tourists.\n\n\nIn May 2013, SFMOMA, in partnership with the National Park Service and Golden Gate National Parks Conservancy, have displayed eight of Mark di Suvero's sculptures on Crissy Field in San Francisco.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860612", "title": "Stanisław Sołtyk", "text": "Stanisław Sołtyk\n\nStanisław Sołtyk (December 12, 1753 – June 4, 1831) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), political activist, landowner, father of Roman Sołtyk.\n\nStanisław was born in Krysk near Płońsk. He became Royal chamberlain in 1780, Great Podstoli of the Crown in 1784. He was a strong supporter of reforms in the Republic. He participated in the Great Sejm in 1788–1792 as representative of the Kraków Voivodeship for the second time. He was a member of the \"Radziwill Club\", which prepared the passing of the Constitution of May 3, 1791 by the Sejm. After the adoption of the Constitution, he became member and co-founder of the \"Assembly of Friends of the May 3 Constitution\". Reportedly, he was the last known inhabitant of the Krzyżtopór castle complex, living there in the years 1782-1787.\n\nHe participated in the preparation of the Kościuszko Uprising, but did not partake in any armed struggles. He was sent with a secret diplomatic mission to the royal court in Vienna, but was arrested by the Austrian authorities. During the partition of Poland, he supported and was involved in conspiratorial activities of the independence movements.\n\nAfter the fall of the Republic he went into retirement on his estates in Chlewisko near Radom. \nHe became busy with producing agrarian and metallurgical products and soon became one of the major industrialists in Poland. He took part in the cultural life of Warsaw and organized meetings of artists and writers. In 1800 he founded the \"Society of Friends of Science\". Together with Tadeusz Czacki and others, he founded the \"Trade Society\" in 1802.\n\nHe returned to political life in the Duchy of Warsaw, after Marshal Joachim Murat appointed him as member of the \"Supreme Justice Chamber\" (\"\") in 1807. From 1811 until 1812 he served as member of the Sejm. In 1811 he was appointed as Sejm Marshal.\n\nDuring the Polish Congress Poland, member of the Sejm and senator-castellan. From 1823 member and one of the authorities of the underground \"Patriotic Society\" in Russian occupied part Poland. He was arrested in 1826 and convicted of treason against the state. In 1829 after four years in prison, he was acquitted and released. At the time, his legal representative was Marceli Tarczewski. \n\nHe supported the November Uprising in 1830 but due to his old age and poor health, he could not take part in the Sejm assembly to put his signature under the act to dethrone Czar Nicolas I, January 25, 1831. He sent a letter to the Sejm submitting his support.\n\nFor his patriotic activities, the Sejm raised him to the rank of senator-voivode on May 28, 1831. He died in Warsaw on June 4, 1831.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860614", "title": "Bill Brown (cricketer)", "text": "Bill Brown (cricketer)\n\nWilliam Alfred Brown, OAM (31 July 1912 – 16 March 2008) was an Australian cricketer who played 22 Tests between 1934 and 1948, captaining his country in one Test. A right-handed opening batsman, his partnership with Jack Fingleton in the 1930s is regarded as one of the finest in Australian Test history. After the interruption of World War II, Brown was a member of the team dubbed \"The Invincibles\", who toured England in 1948 without defeat under the leadership of Don Bradman. In a match in November 1947, Brown was the unwitting victim of the first instance of \"Mankading\".\n\nRaised in New South Wales, Brown initially struggled in both work and cricket, before gradually rising through the cricket ranks. He made his first-class debut for New South Wales in the 1932–33 season and forced his way into the national side during the 1934 tour of England. When long-term openers Bill Ponsford and Bill Woodfull retired at the end of the tour, Brown and his state opening partner Fingleton took over. After poor form made his selection for the 1938 tour of England controversial, Brown responded with a total of 1,854 runs, including an unbeaten 206 that saved Australia from defeat in the Second Test, and was honoured as one of the five Wisden Cricketers of the Year.\n\nThe outbreak of the Second World War cost Brown his peak years, which he spent in the Royal Australian Air Force. Cricket resumed in 1945–46 and Brown, in Bradman's absence, captained an Australian eleven in a match that was retrospectively awarded Test status. Brown missed the entirety of the following season because of injury. Upon his return, he was unable to repeat his previous success and was ousted from the opening positions by Arthur Morris and Sid Barnes. Selected for the \"Invincibles\" tour, he performed reasonably well in the tour matches but, with Morris and Barnes entrenched as openers, he batted out of position in the middle order during the first two Tests. He struggled and was dropped from the Test team, never to return. Upon returning to Australia, Brown continued playing for Queensland until the end of the 1949–50 season.\n\nIn retirement, Brown briefly served as a Test selector and sold cars and, later, sports goods. In 2000, he was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia for his services to cricket. At the time of his death in 2008, he was Australia's oldest Test cricketer.\n\nThe son of a dairy farmer and hotel owner, Brown was born in Toowoomba, Queensland. Aged three, business failure hit the family, and they moved to Marrickville in inner Sydney. The family's poor financial position meant that they lived in a one-bedroom home, with Brown and his brother sharing a bed. Educated at Dulwich Hill and Petersham High Schools in Sydney, Brown started playing cricket as a wicket-keeper, before changing his focus to opening the batting. He left high school after two years, but was unable to find regular full-time work amid the Great Depression. In 1929–30, Brown played grade cricket for Marrickville Cricket Club, but was unable to hold down a regular place. He was on the verge of leaving Sydney when an innings of 172 in the Poidevin-Gray Shield reinvigorated his career. Brown progressed through the grades and reached the club's First XI, where he performed steadily to earn selection for New South Wales in 1932–33.\n\nMaking his first-class debut for New South Wales in a Sheffield Shield match against Queensland on 11 November 1932, Brown was run out for a duck without facing a ball, while opening with Jack Fingleton. However, the match ended happily with Brown's team winning decisively by an innings and 274 runs. The highlights of Brown's first season were his 79 against South Australia, and 69 against Douglas Jardine's England. However, neither Harold Larwood nor Bill Voce, the \"Bodyline\" spearheads, played in the match. During his first season, Brown earned the ire of Don Bradman, who was displeased with Brown's poor communication with batting partners when running between the wickets, with the ensuing risk of falling foul of run outs. Brown ended his debut season with 269 runs at 29.88.\n\nThe following season, in the opening match of the season against Queensland at Brisbane in November 1933, Brown made 154, partnering Bradman in a stand of 294 in just three hours. This set up a total of 4/494 declared and an innings victory. He followed this with 205 in an opening stand of 340 against Victoria. Brown amassed two further half-centuries to end with 878 runs for the season at an average of 67.53, which placed him second behind Bradman in the first-class run-scoring aggregates. When the selectors met to discuss the tour party for the 1934 tour of England, Brown and Fingleton had similar figures, but with the incumbent Victorian opening pair of Bill Ponsford and captain Bill Woodfull firmly in place, there was only one spot available for a reserve opener. The selectors asked Bradman—Australia's leading batsman—for advice. Bradman nominated Brown, believing that his style was better suited to English pitches. A disappointed Fingleton disagreed and wrote to Woodfull, saying \"You have chosen chaps who do not like fast bowling\". Brown justified his selection before departure with a pair of 90s in two matches for a combined Australian XI against Tasmania.\n\nBrown missed selection for the tour opener against Worcestershire—in which Australia traditionally fielded its first-choice XI—before making his debut in the second match against Leicestershire. He made a century against Cambridge University in his second tour match, making 105 in the middle order. Batting at number 3 against Lancashire in the final tour match before the Tests, Brown scored 119. After compiling 351 runs at 43.88 in the opening tour matches, he was selected for the Test side. Playing in all five Tests, Brown made his debut at Trent Bridge, Nottingham and scored 22 in his first innings. After Australia lost three early wickets in the second innings, Brown scored 73 to help secure a winning lead. Brown then made a century while opening the batting against Northamptonshire, and an unbeaten 62 in the second innings, guiding Australia to an eight-wicket victory over the Gentlemen of England. He was promoted to open in the Second Test at Lord's with Woodfull, after Ponsford was unavailable due to illness. At the home of cricket, Brown made his maiden Test century, scoring 105 in the first innings. His innings was an unhurried one; he tended to wait for the ball to come onto the bat rather than attacking the leather. However, he was unable to prevent Australia from being forced to follow-on and made two; the match ended in an innings defeat. He was retained as opener upon Ponsford's return for the Third Test, with Woodfull dropping down the order in a reshuffled batting line-up. Brown made 72 and a duck. The match ended in a draw after both teams passed 490 in the first innings.\n\nIt was the start of a barren month for Brown, who passed 30 only once in 11 first-class innings, totalling 171 runs at 15.55. He ended the unproductive sequence with an unbeaten 100 against Nottinghamshire. This came after Bill Voce had bowled Bodyline at the start of the Australian innings, in contravention of a prior agreement. After an Australian protest, Voce missed the remainder of the match and Brown's innings was punctuated by angry heckling by the local supporters.\n\nHe was unable to pass 20 in the final two Tests and ended the series with 300 runs at 33.33. Despite his inability to make a substantial contribution, Australia won the Fifth Test by 562 runs to reclaim the Ashes 2–1. Brown scored three consecutive half-centuries after the Tests and ended with 1,287 first-class runs at 36.77.\n\nBrown's strong form continued upon returning to Australia, compiling 683 runs at 45.53, including three centuries, to be the second highest run-scorer for the 1934–35 domestic season. He started the season with the testimonial match for Woodfull, who retired upon returning to Australia. Brown scored 102 in the second innings to help Woodfull's men defeat Victor Richardson's XI by seven wickets. He started the Sheffield Shield season with 11 in an innings victory over South Australia, and scored fifties in three consecutive matches, before rounding off the season with 116 in the final match against Western Australia.\n\nWith the retirement of Woodfull and Ponsford after the tour of England, Brown and his state partner Fingleton became Australia's opening pair for the 1935–36 tour of South Africa. It was one of the most productive phases of both men's career. In Australia's warm-up match against Western Australia before sailing across the Indian Ocean, Brown struck 55 in an innings win.\n\nBrown started the tour consistently, scoring 148, 58, 31 and 28 not out in the three warm-up matches. In the first match of the tour against Natal, both Brown and Fingleton made centuries; the first two matches were won by an innings and the third by ten wickets.\n\nBrown scored three consecutive half-centuries in the first two Tests in Durban and Johannesburg. Australia won the first by nine wickets and were 124 runs from victory with eight wickets in hand in the second when bad light stopped play. In the Third Test at Cape Town, the pair set a new Australian opening record of 233, which laid the foundation for a large Australian total and an innings victory. It was Australia's first double-century opening stand in Test cricket, and remains an Australian Test record for the first wicket against South Africa. Brown posted 121, his highest Test score at the time. He scored 34 and 84 in Australia's only innings of the Fourth and Fifth Tests in Johannesburg and Durban, making solid opening stands with Fingleton, who scored three consecutive centuries. The pair laid the platform for two further innings victories, as Australia took the five-Test series 4–0. Brown compiled 417 runs at 59.57 for the series. He scored a further four fifties in the remaining tour matches to end with 1,065 runs at 62.65.\n\nIn 1936, Brown accepted a coaching position and employment as a car salesman to move back to Queensland, representing his state of birth from 1936–37 onwards. He was appointed captain the following season. Brown started the new season strongly, scoring 111 for Victor Richardson's XI in a testimonial match against Bradman's XI, in the opening match of summer. In November, Brown played for an Australian XI and Queensland in two matches against the touring England team, scoring 71 and 74 in the two drawn matches.\n\nHis 1936–37 season was interrupted by injury and he appeared in only the Third and Fourth Tests against England. They were relatively unsuccessful, yielding only 95 runs at 23.75 in four innings without passing fifty. Nevertheless, Australia won the two matches. His debut season for Queensland was moderately successful, with 557 runs at an average of 37.13, including one century and four fifties. Brown did not taste victory with his home state during the season; the closest Queensland came was a one-wicket loss to New South Wales.\n\nBrown's form started to deteriorate in 1937–38; he scored only 400 runs at 36.36 for the season. Queensland played five matches under his watch, losing three, and went without victory. Of the two draws, one was washed out and in the other, Queensland hung on with two wickets in hand when time ran out. Although Brown compiled two centuries, he was only twelfth in the aggregates during an Australian season with no international tours. As a result, his selection for the 1938 tour to England was criticised in some quarters.\n\nBrown started the tour patchily, although Australia won each of their first four matches by an innings. In his first four innings, Brown passed five only once, scoring 72 against Oxford University. He returned to form with an unbeaten 194 against Northamptonshire, helping to set up an innings win, before adding another 96 in the next match against Surrey. Brown entered the Tests with 504 runs at 56.00 in the lead-in tour matches.\n\nAfter adding 48 in Australia's first innings of 411, Brown scored 133 in the second innings of the First Test at Nottingham after the tourists were forced to follow-on, helping Bradman (144 not out) to save the Test. The Australians reached 6/427 in the second innings when the match ended in a draw.\n\nBrown's most celebrated innings came in the Second Test at Lord's, carrying his bat to score 206 in the first televised Test match. England batted first and amassed 494, largely on the back of Wally Hammond's 240. Brown featured in an opening stand of 69 before Fingleton was dismissed. Hedley Verity then bowled Bradman for 18, leaving the score at 101, before Stan McCabe fell after a quickfire 38 with the score at 3/152. Brown registered his century in 193 minutes, during an innings highlighted by his driving on both sides of the wicket. After Lindsay Hassett was dismissed for 56 following a 134-run partnership, Australia reached stumps at 5/299, with Brown on 140. The following day, Brown set about ensuring that Australia would avoid the follow on, featuring in an aggressive eighth-wicket stand with tailender Bill O'Reilly. The pair added 85 runs in just 46 minutes, with Brown recalling \"It was a nice day, and a nice wicket. O'Reilly came in, and I told him I'd take the quicks—Wellard and Farnes—and Tiger [O'Reilly] took Verity.\" Brown continued past his double century and remained unbeaten on 206 from just 375 minutes when his last partner fell, leaving Australia all out for 422. Brown's innings was the 100th century by an Australian against England, and the highest Test score for a batsman carrying his bat; it stood until Glenn Turner made an unbeaten 223 in 1972. Ray Robinson quipped that Brown's performance \"did not cause smoke to rise from the back of those [television] sets but the charm of his style gave viewers a favourable impression of Australian batsmanship\". They went on to draw the match, which was crucial in Australia's eventual retention of the Ashes. Brown's uninterrupted batting meant that he was on the field from the first morning until late on the fourth day.\n\nImmediately after making his highest Test score at Lord's, Brown recorded his highest first-class score of 265 not out against Derbyshire, in six hours of batting. Australia amassed 4/441 declared and won by an innings and 234 runs. He then made it three centuries in a row, scoring 101 against Warwickshire, setting up another innings win.\n\nThe Third Test was washed out without a ball being bowled, and Australia won the Fourth Test by five wickets in a low-scoring match to retain the Ashes. Brown made 22 and nine as Australia scored 242 and 5/107. It was the start of a quiet month for the opener, who scored only 194 runs in eight completed innings. He was the top Australian scorer in both innings of the Fifth Test at The Oval, scoring 69 and 15. This was the match in which Len Hutton scored a world Test record 364 and England compiled 7/903, before winning by an innings and 579 runs, which remains a world record winning margin in a Test match. Throughout the Tests, Brown aggregated 512 runs at 73.14, totalling 1,854 runs at 59.57 in all first-class matches for the tour. This placed Brown second to Bradman in both aggregates and average. He was named as one of the Wisden Cricketers of the Year for his performances in 1938. \"Wisden\" described him as a \"cricketer of remarkable powers\" who batted with \"a charming skill, coolness, thoughtfulness and certainty\".\n\nUpon returning to Australia, Brown scored 1,057 runs at 105.70 in the 1938–39 Australian season, including 990 at 110.00 in six Sheffield Shield matches. Brown started the season well, scoring 84 as Queensland amassed 501 against New South Wales. His old state were still 27 runs from making Queensland bat again, but time ran out with one wicket intact, with Brown yet to taste victory with his new state. Nevertheless, he continued to perform strongly and passed 50 in each of his first four innings. In the fourth of these, he was out for 99 and then declared at 5/510 to leave Victoria a victory target of 319. Brown then narrowly missed out on a milestone for the second time in the match when Victoria scraped home by three wickets to deny him a maiden victory with his home state. In the next match, he carried his bat to make an unbeaten 174 against South Australia at the Adelaide Oval, as his team fell to an innings defeat.\n\nAfter twelve matches for his state of origin, Brown was still to end up on the winning side. This changed in the next match against New South Wales. After their opponents had made 214, Brown top-scored with 95 as Queensland replied with 200. New South Wales made 264 to leave Brown's men 279 for victory. The captain led the way, combining with Geoff Cook in Queensland's then record first-wicket partnership of 265. Brown was out for 168, but his team held on to secure an eight-wicket victory over New South Wales. It was Brown's first win in Queensland colours. He then scored 81 in a ten-wicket defeat to South Australia, before adding a second victory, this time over Victoria. Brown ended the season by amassing 215 as Queensland reached 7/575 declared before completing an innings win. Brown topped the aggregates with 1,057 runs and was the only player to pass 1,000 runs for the season.\n\nBrown had another strong campaign in the following year, netting 857 runs at 61.21, including three centuries. Despite this, Queensland had another poor season, losing five of their six matches. Brown started the season strongly, scoring 87 and 137, but he was unable to stop New South Wales winning the opening match by three wickets. After a seven-wicket loss to Victoria, Brown made 156, but was unable to prevent an innings defeat to South Australia. After an innings loss to New South Wales, he made 111 to steer Queensland to its only win of the season, a two-wicket victory over South Australia. He finished the season with 35 and 97 as The Rest of Australia lost to New South Wales by two wickets.\n\nDue to World War II, cricket in Australia was scaled down and in a shortened season in 1940–41, Brown made 307 runs at 30.70 in five matches, with two half-centuries. In 1941–42, he played one match, his last first-class fixture during the war, scoring 56 and 69 in a narrow 19-run win over New South Wales.\n\nBrown was a flight lieutenant with the Royal Australian Air Force, serving in New Guinea and the Philippines during the Second World War, losing his prime years from the age of 27 to 33. During the pre-war years, he had averaged 49.02 in Test cricket.\n\nFirst-class cricket resumed in 1945–46 after the Allied victory, and Brown began the post-war phase of his career with a steady season, scoring 604 runs at 46.46 with five half-centuries in seven matches. This placed him second to Sid Barnes in the run-scoring aggregates. His best effort was a 98 against South Australia, denied a century by a run out. Queensland lost more than they won, with two victories and three losses. At the end of the season, Brown captained an Australian side on a tour of New Zealand, and all five matches resulted in convincing victories for the tourists.\n\nAustralia played its inaugural Test against New Zealand in Wellington, a match that was retrospectively given Test status. The uncertain status of the tour saw the players wearing blazers that were labelled ABC (Australian Board of Control), rather than the Australian coat of arms. Brown led from the front, topping the tour aggregates and averages, with 443 runs at 73.83 in five matches. In the opening tour match against Auckland, Brown elected to bat and opened with 68 as Australia amassed 579 and took victory by an innings and 180 runs. This was followed by a match against Canterbury in Christchurch, in which Brown top-scored with 137. This laid the foundation for a total of 8/415 and another innings victory. Brown made his second consecutive century in the third match against Otago at Carisbrook in Dunedin, again top-scoring with 106 in an eight-wicket victory. He made 34 in the final tour match as Australia defeated Wellington in another innings victory.\n\nThe tour culminated in a match against New Zealand at the Basin Reserve in Wellington. With regular captain Don Bradman missing, Brown led a team that included seven Test debutants. The hosts won the toss and elected to bat first on a wet wicket, which came about after a week of rain before the match. New Zealand managed to reach 4/37 at lunch, before the sun emerged and caused the wicket to turn into a sticky with unpredictable bounce. Leg spinner Bill O'Reilly—in his last Test—and debutant Ernie Toshack, took 5/14 and 4/12 respectively as New Zealand were bowled out for only 42, losing their last six wickets for five runs. In reply, Australia were 1/9 when Ken Meuleman was dismissed. Having been dropped on 13, Brown then combined in a 109-run first-wicket stand with Barnes, before falling for the innings top-score of 67. It was the only partnership for the Test that went beyond 32. Barnes' dismissal triggered a collapse of 6/57, prompting Brown to declare Australia's innings closed at 8/199. Australia then dismissed New Zealand for 54 in the second innings in just two hours, resulting in victory by an innings and 54 runs in just two days. As the hosts' batsmen fell quickly, many of the Australian bowlers had limited opportunities. With one wicket left in the match, Brown used the toss of a coin to determine which of the debutants Colin McCool and Ian Johnson would bowl in Tests for the first time. McCool was given the ball and ended the match on his second delivery. Brown's solitary Test as captain makes him the first and the only native Queenslander to have led Australia.\n\nBrown missed the entire 1946–47 Test series against England due to a thumb injury. This allowed young New South Wales opener Arthur Morris to make his Test debut. Morris' performance in the series eventually displaced Brown from his position as a first-choice opening batsman alongside Barnes. The injury meant that Brown was unable to play a single match for Queensland.\n\nBrown returned to first-class cricket in 1947–48, scoring 192 runs at 38.40 in the first three matches of the season. The season saw an Indian tour of Australia. The selectors initially dropped Barnes to pair Brown with Morris to open the batting. Apart from two Tests during the 1936–37 season against England, Brown had not played Test cricket on Australian soil. He had only one opportunity with the bat in the First Test in Brisbane, making 11 as India fell to an innings defeat. It was to be his only innings and Test match on his home ground. Brown's participation in the series was overshadowed by his controversial run out by Indian left arm orthodox spinner Vinoo Mankad in the Second Test at the Sydney Cricket Ground in December 1947. Brown was run out for 18, when in the act of delivering the ball, Mankad held on to it and whipped the bails off at the non-striker's end. Brown was well out of his crease while he was backing-up the striker, so that he could get a head start in case he attempted a run. This was the second time during the season that Mankad had dismissed Brown in this fashion—as he had previously done so in a match against an Australian XI in November. On that occasion, Mankad had warned Brown before running him out. The local press strongly accused Mankad of being unsportsmanlike, although some Australians—including Bradman—defended Mankad's actions. For his part, Brown took full blame and made light of the incident through humorous gestures in later matches, which referred to the event. After this incident, if a batsman is given out this way, he is said to have been \"Mankaded\".\n\nThe dismissal ended another low-scoring innings, and Australia batted only once in a shortened match. Brown was omitted from the team in favour of Barnes for the next two Tests. Morris—who had established himself as one of Australia's first-choice opening batsmen during Brown's injury layoff during the previous season—was rested for the Fifth Test as the Australian Board trialled potential candidates for the 1948 tour of England. Morris was omitted after losing a coin toss to Barnes. Brown partnered Barnes, making 99 in the first innings before being run out. Brown had survived a confident appeal for caught behind before he had scored, and Barnes was convinced that his partner had edged the ball. Barnes claimed that had Brown failed to make an impact in the innings, he would have been overlooked for the 1948 tour.\n\nDuring the first innings, Brown captained Australia while Bradman was absent with fibrositis. The tourists fell for 331, with debutants Sam Loxton and Doug Ring taking three wickets apiece. India eventually fell to another innings defeat, so Brown did not have another opportunity to score a Test century on home soil. His Test aggregate in Australia stood at 223 runs at only 33.86, in contrast to his away average of 1,369 runs at 50.70. His first-class batting average of 43.58 for the season was inferior to that of Barnes and Morris, both of whom averaged more than 50.\n\nIn any case, Brown had done enough to be chosen to tour England in 1948 with the team that became known as the \"Invincibles\", although Barnes and Morris were the first-choice opening combination. Brown made a strong start in the tour matches preceding the Tests. In the fifth fixture, which was against Cambridge University, Brown top-scored with 200 in an innings victory. In the following match against Essex, he combined with Bradman in a second-wicket partnership of 219 in 90 minutes, ending with 153 as Australia scored a world-record 721 runs in one day. Australia proceeded to another innings victory, and Brown completed his third century in as many innings with 108 against Oxford University. He proceeded to add a fourth century in less than three weeks, with 122 against Nottinghamshire, and made an unbeaten 81 against Hampshire. In contrast, middle-order batsman Neil Harvey had struggled in the initial stages of his first tour of England, failing to pass 25 in his first six innings. Thus, Brown gained selection in the First Test at Trent Bridge, batting out of position in the middle order, whereas Harvey was dropped despite making a century in Australia's most recent Test against India.\n\nBrown made 17 in his only innings as Australia won by eight wickets. Between Tests, Brown scored 113 in a slow innings against Yorkshire to retain his middle-order position for the Second Test at Lord's. He was unable to replicate the Test centuries he made in the preceding tours, scoring 24 and 32. It was to be his last Test, as Sam Loxton top-scored with 159 not out against Gloucestershire in the match before the Third Test, ousting Brown from his middle-order position. Barnes was injured in the Third Test, but Brown was not recalled for the Fourth Test; instead, Lindsay Hassett was promoted to open with Morris, while the teenaged Harvey came into the middle-order and struck 112. Brown then scored 140 against Derbyshire immediately after the Fourth Test, in a dour display that displeased spectators, and then scored consecutive centuries against Kent and the Gentlemen of England after the Tests. He ended with eight centuries and a total of 1,448 runs on the tour at an average of 57.92, behind only Bradman, Hassett and Morris, with the 200 against Cambridge University his highest score. Brown took 4/16 against the South of England in his only bowling assignment of the tour. It was his best career bowling figures, having amassed only six wickets in his first-class career. In three visits to England, Brown scored 18 centuries.\n\nUpon returning to Australia, Bradman retired and Barnes took a break from cricket, thereby opening two vacancies in the Test team. Brown had a reasonable domestic season in 1948–49 to press his claim for a Test recall. He scored 626 runs at 41.73, the sixth highest aggregate of the season, with a century and three fifties. Queensland won two and lost three games. Despite this, the 37-year-old Brown was not named in the touring party for the Test tour of South Africa in 1949–50. In the absence of the Test players, Brown scored 507 runs at 50.70 in the Sheffield Shield season, with a top score of 190, making him the third highest run-getter. In their first five matches of the season, Queensland lost three times, before Brown's 190 in the last match against South Australia set up a nine-wicket win. It was his only century of the season after previously falling for 94 twice.\n\nWith his opportunities diminishing, he retired after captaining the Australian Second XI to New Zealand on an end-of-season tour, during which the team went undefeated. Most of the matches were not first-class but Brown scored his final first-class century against Otago, scoring 184 in an innings victory. He had been less effective in his later years, averaging 38.29 in Tests following World War II.\n\n Brown was regarded as a cautious starter who was reluctant to use his full array of strokes. He had an upright stance and was known for his trademark leg glancing and placement of the ball. He hooked occasionally and scored the majority of his off-side runs with the cut shot. Johnny Moyes said that \"even when slow, he never wearied, as some do, because his style was cultured and free from jarring faults\". Moyes felt that Brown's superior record on English soil was a result of the crowd attitude, which was more respectful. At Australian grounds, impatient spectators who disliked Brown's cautious batting frequently heckled him, blaming Brown for delaying Bradman's arrival to the crease. Moyes felt that the more serene English gallery allowed Brown to play to his game plan without hastening to placate impatient spectators. \"A placid chap was Brown, and he liked to play in peaceful surroundings. When on the job he was as emotionless as a stoic.\" Moyes said that Brown was \"always cool and thoughtful, he preferred finesse to force\". The English journalist Neville Cardus commented \"His cricket is perpetually keeping an appointment leisurely with moments to spare. Does the bat have an engagement this over with a half-volley? Very well, then, put it down in the book. We'll be there for it. Plenty of time.\" Bradman also noted Brown's ability to quickly get into position to play the ball, writing \"One hallmark of good batting is that the player appears to have plenty of time in which to play his strokes. Bill Brown was an outstanding case of one who never seemed to be in a hurry for any stroke.\" Ray Robinson said that Brown was \"the most serene batsman I ever saw play for Australia\". Robinson said that \"for artistry, Brown's leg-glancing could be mentioned in the same breath as Archie Jackson's\". Brown's placid nature extended to his observations of modern cricket—he disliked the emotional displays made by contemporary players.\n\nBrown's partnership with Fingleton is regarded as one of the great opening pairings in Australian Test cricket history. In ten Tests as an opening combination, the pair averaged 63.75 for the first wicket, higher than any other Australian duo with more than 1,000 runs. Brown was known for his self-effacing nature and was well liked among teammates and opponents alike. Of his batting, Brown joked that \"My wife said you could always tell when I was batting by the number of people leaving the ground\". During a domestic match at the Adelaide Oval in December 1938, he deflected a ball onto his stumps without dislodging a bail. He added a further 147 runs to end unbeaten on 174, eternally apologising for his luck.\n\nIn addition to his batting, Brown was a highly regarded fieldsman known for his fitness. He developed his skills through persistent training with professional sprinters in order to improve his anticipation and speed off the mark. Brown often fielded at slip or in the covers. With Australia boasting the leg spin pairing of O'Reilly and Clarrie Grimmett in the 1930s, close-catchers were frequently used. Along with Fingleton, Brown often fielded in the leg trap position.\n\nIn 1940, Brown married Barbara Hart, a receptionist. The couple had three sons, whom Brown self-deprecatingly noted were \"well spaced ... like my centuries\". Outside cricket, Brown worked in a variety of jobs. When Bradman relocated from New South Wales to South Australia in 1935, Brown took his job at the men's clothing store FJ Palmer. Following his relocation to Queensland, Brown was a Brisbane car salesman, selling Chevrolets for Eagers and later running a sports store.\n\nBrown was a Queensland selector from 1950–51 to 1959–60, and an Australian selector in 1952–53 after defeating New South Wales' Chappie Dwyer in an election. He was the first Queenslander in 23 years to serve as a national selector. His brief tenure as a national selector was marked by abuse and harassment from parochial Queenslanders, upset that he did not include his fellow statesmen in the Test team. Brown's sports store was vandalised and he resigned as a selector within a year. In 1992, Brown was elected a life member of the Queensland Cricket Association, and in 2000 was awarded the Medal of the Order of Australia for his services to cricket.\n\nUpon Bradman's death in February 2001, Brown became the oldest living Australian Test cricketer, greatly amused by the fame that came with the title. Highly regarded by Australian cricketers of the modern era, Steve Waugh invited Brown to present Test debutant Adam Gilchrist with his baggy green. The humble Brown was surprised, thinking himself an unworthy choice. Waugh disagreed, opining that \"Bill is a baggy green icon who represents all that is good about playing for your country. He is humble, self-effacing and respectful, proud to have been afforded the honour of being an Australian Test cricketer, and a man who always looks for the positive in people.\" In March 2008, Brown died in Brisbane at the age of 95. He was the last surviving \"Invincible\" to have played Test cricket before World War II and his death left only four living members of Bradman's 1948 team.\n\nIn 2005 Brown was recognised as an outstanding Queenslander in the Queensland Greats Awards and in 2009 was inducted into the Queensland Sport Hall of Fame.\n\n\"Key: *–not out\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1860624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860624", "title": "Basketball at the 1952 Summer Olympics", "text": "Basketball at the 1952 Summer Olympics\n\nBasketball at the 1952 Summer Olympics was the third appearance of the sport of basketball as an official Olympic medal event. 23 nations entered the competition.\n\nThe top six teams at the 1948 Summer Olympics qualified automatically, as did the winners of the 1950 FIBA World Championship (Argentina), the top two teams at the 1951 EuroBasket (USSR and Czechoslovakia), and the host country (Finland). Thirteen other nations competed in a preliminary round to determine the last six places in the sixteen-team Olympic tournament.\n\nNations that lost two games in the preliminary tournaments were eliminated. When there were only two teams left in each group, those teams advanced to the main tournament.\n\n\nBulgaria's victory earned it a berth in the main tournament, while Switzerland's second loss eliminated them.\n\n\nThe two teams that were 1–1 played each other: the winner received a tournament berth and the loser was eliminated.\n\n\n\nThe Philippines qualified for the main tournament, while Israel's second loss eliminated them.\n\n\nThe two teams that were 1–1 played each, with the winner receiving a tournament berth and the loser being eliminated.\n\n\nBye: Romania\n\nRomania's first game was a loss to Canada. Italy and Turkey played each other, with Turkey's second loss eliminating them.\n\nBye: Egypt\n\nItaly and Romania, who had both lost once, played each other. Romania's second loss eliminated them, while Canada and Egypt played each other, with Egypt being served its first loss; Canada qualified.\n\n\nItaly played its fourth game of the tournament against Egypt. The closely contested decisive game ended with Egypt qualifying for the main competition and Italy being eliminated.\n\n\nThe top two teams in each group advanced to the quarterfinal round.\n\nThe top two teams in each quarterfinals advanced to the semifinals. The other two teams in each quarterfinals played in the fifth through eighth place classification.\n\n\n\nFor the team rosters see: \"Basketball at the 1952 Summer Olympics – Men's team rosters\".\n\nEach country was allowed to enter one team of 14 players and they all were eligible for participation. A total number of 317 players were entered.\n\nA total of 301\"(*)\" basketball players from 23 nations competed at the Helsinki Games:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860626", "title": "The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber", "text": "The Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber\n\nThe Heaven Sword and Dragon Saber, also translated as The Sword and the Knife, is a wuxia novel by Jin Yong (Louis Cha). It is the third and final installment in the \"Condor Trilogy\", preceded by \"The Legend of the Condor Heroes\" and \"The Return of the Condor Heroes\". It was first serialised from 6 July 1961 to 2 September 1963 in the Hong Kong newspaper \"Ming Pao\".\n\nJin Yong revised the novel in 1979 with a number of amendments and additions. A second revision was published in early 2005, incorporating later thoughts and a lengthier conclusion. It also introduced many changes to the plot and cleared up some ambiguities in the second edition, such as the origin of the \"Nine Yang Manual\". As is typical of some of his other novels, Jin Yong included elements of Chinese history in the story, such as featuring historical figures like Hongwu Emperor, Chen Youliang, Chang Yuchun and Zhang Sanfeng. The political and ethnic clash between the Han Chinese rebels and the ruling Mongols is also a prominent theme in the novel.\n\nSet in the late Yuan dynasty, the story revolves around a pair of mysterious and allegedly unrivaled weapons, the Heaven-Reliant Sword (倚天劍) and Dragon-Slaying Saber (屠龍刀), which are coveted by many martial artists in the \"jianghu\". Either or both of them are thought to allow their wielder to rule the \"wulin\" (martial artists' community), according to a widely circulated mantra which goes, \"The powerful and honorable weapon:Dragon Saber; It can slay the Dragon. Use it to command the world. Who dares to disobey orders? If the Heaven Sword does not appear, what weapon can against the saber effectively?\" (武林至尊，寶刀屠龍，號令天下，莫敢不從！倚天不出，誰與爭鋒？) The origins of this poem are not known at the beginning of the novel.\n\nThe protagonist, Zhang Wuji, is of mixed heritage. His father, Zhang Cuishan, is an apprentice of Zhang Sanfeng, the highly revered leader of the respected Wudang Sect; his mother, Yin Susu, is the daughter of Yin Tianzheng, the chief of the nefarious Heavenly Eagle Cult. He was born on a reclusive arctic volcanic island, where he spent his childhood with only his parents and his godfather Xie Xun. When he is about 10 years old, his parents brought him back to the Chinese mainland. They soon find themselves the target of every martial artists in the \"jianghu\" world, who all try to coerce them to reveal the whereabouts of Xie Xun, who has possession of the Dragon Slaying Saber. His parents refuse and commit suicide. At the same time, Zhang Wuji is abducted and wounded by the Xuanming Elders, but he survives after seeking medical treatment from Hu Qingniu, an eccentric physician.\n\nAfter ending up in an isolated valley by chance, Zhang Wuji discovers the long-lost \"Nine Yang Manual\", masters the inner energy skills described in the book, and becomes a formidable martial artist. Later on, he helps to resolve the conflict between the Ming Cult and the six major orthodox sects, which are bent on destroying the cult. He earns the respect of the cult's members and becomes its leader after mastering the skill 'Heaven and Earth Great Shift'. He reforms the cult and helps to improve its relations with other sects. He becomes a key figure in leading the rebel forces to overthrow the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty.\n\nThroughout his adventures, Zhang Wuji finds himself entangled in a complex web of love relationships with four maidens. The first, Yin Li, is a horribly disfigured girl who is actually his maternal cousin. The second, Xiaozhao, is a Chinese-Persian servant girl who understands him very well. The third, Zhou Zhiruo, is a childhood friend whom he develops a strong bond with. The fourth, Zhao Min, is a Mongol princess and his former arch-rival. Yin Li is apparently killed in the middle of the novel while Xiaozhao returns to Persia after it is revealed that she is destined to lead the Persian Ming Cult.\n\nZhou Zhiruo soon falls in love with Zhang Wuji, but has to turn against him as she is bound by an oath she made in front of her teacher Miejue, who hates and distrusts Zhang Wuji and anyone related to the Ming Cult. Miejue devises a vicious scheme for Zhou Zhiruo to seize the two weapons by exploiting Zhang Wuji's love for Zhou. Zhou Zhiruo also turns vicious after Zhang Wuji reneges his promise to marry her and swears vengeance on him. Zhao Min was initially Zhang Wuji's rival as they were on opposing sides. However, Zhao Min gradually falls in love with Zhang Wuji after their various encounters, and she even turns against her clan to help him.\n\nAt the end of the novel, Zhang Wuji decides to retire from the \"jianghu\" after he mistakenly believes that the Ming Cult's members are plotting to betray him. He decides that Zhao Min is his true love and they leave to lead a reclusive life far away from society. (The second edition of the novel has an ambiguous ending about Zhang Wuji's relationship with Zhou Zhiruo.) Zhang Wuji gave up an opportunity to become a ruler when the Ming Cult on the verge to overthrew the Yuan dynasty. Ideally, Zhang would have become the new emperor, but instead, the general Zhu Yuanzhang seizes command of Ming Cult's military and unites most of China's rebel forces. After capturing the city of Nanjing, he enrobes himself in the Dragon Robe and establishes the Ming dynasty as the Hongwu Emperor. Four years later, the founding emperor's subordinate, Xu Da, leads an attack on the Yuan capital (present-day Beijing), where the Hongwu Emperor is finally legitimately enthroned under the Mandate of Heaven. The Yuan remnants retreat to the Eurasian Steppe after losing China, where they establish the Northern Yuan dynasty under the leadership of Toghon Temür. The Mongols continue their war with the Ming dynasty, scheme to reconquer China but ultimately failed to overpower the Han Chinese's now-strengthened forces under the Ming.\n\nIn 2005, Jin Yong published a third edition of the novel, which has a slightly different ending from the earlier versions. In this edition, Zhang Wuji feels disillusioned after failing to save a general's life and addressing Han Lin'er's death. He relinquishes his leadership of the Ming Cult to Yang Xiao and Fan Yao, and then leaves the Central Plain with Zhao Min.\n\nThe two titular weapons, the Heaven Reliant Sword (倚天劍) and the Dragon Slaying Saber (屠龍刀), were forged from a single sword, the Heavy Iron Sword (玄鐵重劍), which Yang Guo wielded in \"The Return of the Condor Heroes\".\n\nThe Heavy Iron Sword belonged to Dugu Qiubai, a great swordsman whose skills were unmatched in his time. Yang Guo chanced upon the Heavy Iron Sword while he was recovering from the Love Flower's poison and the loss of his right arm. When Yang Guo and Xiaolongnü depart from Xiangyang, they left the sword with the couple Guo Jing and Huang Rong. The sword was melted and special steel material was added and it was then forged into the two weapons.\n\nIn the third edition of the novel, the Heaven Sword was reforged from Yang Guo's Gentleman Sword (君子劍) and Xiaolongnü's Lady Sword (淑女劍) while the Dragon Saber's origin remained unchanged.\n\nHidden in the blade of the Dragon Saber is a military treatise titled \"Book of Wumu\" (武穆遺書), authored by Yue Fei. Similarly, concealed in the blade of the Heaven Sword are two scrolls detailing the \"Nine Yin Manual\" and Guo Jing's \"Eighteen Dragon Subduing Palms\".\n\nThe Dragon Saber was given to Guo Jing and Huang Rong's son Guo Polu, while their younger daughter Guo Xiang inherited the Heaven Sword.\n\nThe content of the hidden book and scrolls, in addition to the fact that the weapons can only be damaged and broken when used against each other, was the source of the claim that whoever possesses the Dragon Saber will rule the world and yet only the one who possesses the Heaven Sword can stand against the wielder of the Saber.\n\nThe secret of the weapons was passed down only from the leader of each generation of the Emei Sect to her successor. Miejue is succeeded by Zhou Zhiruo and the secret is passed on to the latter. In the novel, Zhou Zhiruo gains possession of both weapons through her cunning and deception and she breaks them to obtain their contents.\n\nIn the latest revision, two halves of an iron-plated map are hidden in the weapons instead of manuals. Once pieced together, the map points out the location of Peach Blossom Island, where the manuals are hidden. Jin Yong reasoned that the change was due to a possibility that the dissection of the weapons will cause the manuals to be burnt, hence two pieces of an iron-plated map would be better substitutes.\n\nIn Chinese culture, the Dragon is a symbol of the emperor or sovereign ruler. The full translated name of the Dragon Saber is \"Dragon Slaying Saber\" (屠龍刀), which implies that it is used to \"slay the emperor\". In this case, the \"emperor\" refers to Emperor Huizong of the Yuan dynasty.\n\nThroughout Chinese history, several monarchs have become tyrants, just like when the mythical Dragon goes out of control and becomes a menace. The Heaven Sword's full translated name is \"Heaven Reliant Sword\" (倚天劍) as it embodies Heaven. In Chinese culture, the emperor is respectfully called the \"Son of Heaven\", which implies that Heaven is the ultimate authority in determining who will be the ruler of China.\n\nIt can thus be interpreted as such: The secret in the Dragon Slaying Saber can be used to \"kill\" (dethrone) the (Mongol) emperor and replace him with another (Han Chinese) ruler. Ideally, a brilliant military leader can use the textbook to its full potential by staging a rebellion to overthrow the Yuan dynasty and restore Han Chinese rule. However, if the new emperor turns out to be an incompetent monarch or a tyrant, a martial artist can master the skills from the manuals in the Heaven Reliant Sword, assassinate the emperor and replace him with a wise and benevolent ruler.\n\nThe story was adapted into a manhua series, illustrated by Ma Wing-shing and Jin Yong credited as the writer. In 2002, ComicsOne published an English translation of the manhua as \"Heaven Sword & Dragon Sabre\". While the plot details remain intact, some of the story's events were not presented in the same order as in the novel.\n\nIn 2000, Softworld released a RPG based on the novel. The game ends after the battle at Bright Peak.\n\nIn 2004, Softworld released another RPG. Instead of the traditional turn-based RPG, this version has a real-time battle system (similar to \"Diablo\"), and follows the entire story.\n"}
{"id": "1860634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860634", "title": "Terri Windling", "text": "Terri Windling\n\nTerri Windling (born December 3, 1958 in Fort Dix, New Jersey) is an American editor, artist, essayist, and the author of books for both children and adults. She has won nine World Fantasy Awards, the Mythopoeic Fantasy Award, and the Bram Stoker Award, and her collection \"The Armless Maiden\" appeared on the short-list for the James Tiptree, Jr. Award. In 2010 Windling received the SFWA Solstice Award, which honors \"individuals with a significant impact on the speculative fiction field\". Her work has been translated into French, German, Spanish, Italian, Czech, Lithuanian, Turkish, Russian, Japanese, and Korean.\n\nIn the American publishing field, Windling has been one of the primary creative forces behind the mythic fiction resurgence that began in the early 1980s, through her work as an innovative editor for the Ace and Tor Books fantasy lines and as the editor of more than thirty anthologies of magical fiction. She created the Fairy Tale Series of novels that reinterpret classic fairy tales (below). She is also recognized as one of the founders of urban fantasy, having published and promoted the first novels of Charles de Lint, Emma Bull, and other pioneers of the genre.\n\nWith Ellen Datlow, Windling edited 16 volumes of \"Year's Best Fantasy and Horror\" (1986–2003), an anthology that reached beyond the boundaries of genre fantasy to incorporate magic realism, surrealism, poetry, and other forms of magical literature. Datlow and Windling also edited the \"Snow White, Blood Red\" series of literary fairy tales for adult readers, as well as many anthologies of myth & fairy tale inspired fiction for younger readers, such as \"\", \"The Faery Reel\", and \"The Wolf at the Door\". Windling also created and edited the \"Borderland\" series for teenage readers, and \"The Armless Maiden\", a fiction collection for adult survivors of child abuse like herself.\n\nAs an author, Windling's fiction includes \"The Wood Wife\" (winner of the Mythopoeic Award for Novel of the Year) and several children's books: \"The Raven Queen\", \"The Changeling\", \"A Midsummer Night's Faery Tale\", \"The Winter Child\", and \"The Faeries of Spring Cottage\". Her essays on myth, folklore, magical literature and art have been widely published in newsstand magazines, academic journals, art books, and anthologies. She was a contributor to \"The Oxford Companion to Fairy Tales\", edited by Jack Zipes.\n\nAs an artist, Windling specializes in work inspired by myth, folklore, and fairy tales. Her art has been exhibited across the US, as well as in the UK and France.\n\nWindling is the founder of the Endicott Studio, an organization dedicated to myth-inspired arts, and was the co-editor with Midori Snyder of \"The Journal of Mythic Arts\" from 1987 until it ceased publication in 2008. She also sits on the board of the Mythic Imagination Institute. Windling married Howard Gayton, the British dramatist and co-founder of the influential Commedia dell'arte troupe, the Ophaboom Theatre Company, in September 2008, and lives in Devon, England.\n\nIn May 2016, Windling gave the fourth annual Tolkien Lecture at Pembroke College, Oxford, speaking on the topic of fantasy literature in the post-Tolkien era.\n\n\n\n\nThe latter Young Adult shared-world series features the intersection of Elfland and human lands, which is generally populated by teenagers, runaways, and exiles. Primary series writers are Ellen Kushner, Charles de Lint, Midori Snyder, Emma Bull, and Will Shetterly. The series consists of five anthologies and three novels to date.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860637", "title": "Agrimonia", "text": "Agrimonia\n\nAgrimonia (from the Greek ), commonly known as agrimony, is a genus of 12–15 species of perennial herbaceous flowering plants in the family Rosaceae, native to the temperate regions of the Northern Hemisphere, with one species also in Africa. The species grow to between tall, with interrupted pinnate leaves, and tiny yellow flowers borne on a single (usually unbranched) spike.\n\n\"Agrimonia\" species are used as food plants by the larvae of some Lepidoptera species including grizzled skipper (recorded on \"A. eupatoria\") and large grizzled skipper.\n\n\nIn the ancient times, it was used for foot baths and tired feet. Agrimony has a long history of medicinal use. The English poet Michael Drayton once hailed it as an \"all-heal\" and through the ages it was considered a panacea. The ancient Greeks used agrimony to treat eye ailments, and it was made into brews for diarrhea and disorders of the gallbladder, liver, and kidneys. The Anglo-Saxons boiled agrimony in milk and used it to improve erectile performance.\nThey also made a solution from the leaves and seeds for healing wounds; this use continued through the Middle Ages and afterward, in a preparation called \"eau d'arquebusade\", or \"musket-shot water\". It has been added to tea as a spring tonic.\n\nTraditional British folklore states that if a sprig of Agrimonia eupatoria was placed under a person's head, they would sleep until it was removed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860640", "title": "Wire drawing", "text": "Wire drawing\n\nWire drawing is a metalworking process used to reduce the cross-section of a wire by pulling the wire through a single, or series of, drawing die(s). There are many applications for wire drawing, including electrical wiring, cables, tension-loaded structural components, springs, paper clips, spokes for wheels, and stringed musical instruments. Although similar in process, drawing is different from extrusion, because in drawing the wire is pulled, rather than pushed, through the die. Drawing is usually performed at room temperature, thus classified as a cold working process, but it may be performed at elevated temperatures for large wires to reduce forces.\n\nThe wire drawing process is quite simple in concept. The wire is prepared by shrinking the beginning of it, by hammering, filing, rolling or swaging, so that it will fit through the die; the wire is then pulled through the die. As the wire is pulled through the die, its volume remains the same, so as the diameter decreases, the length increases. Usually the wire will require more than one draw, through successively smaller dies, to reach the desired size. The American wire gauge scale is based on this. This can be done on a small scale with a draw plate, or on a large commercial scale using automated machinery. The process of wire drawing changes material properties due to cold working.\n\nThe area reduction in small wires is generally 15–25% and in larger wires is 20–45%. The exact die sequence for a particular job is a function of area reduction, input wire size and output wire size. As the area reduction changes, so does the die sequence.\n\nVery fine wires are usually drawn in bundles. In a bundle, the wires are separated by a metal with similar properties, but with lower chemical resistance so that it can be removed after drawing. If the reduction in area is greater than 50%, the process may require an intermediate step of annealing before it can be redrawn.\n\nCommercial wire drawing usually starts with a coil of hot rolled diameter wire. The surface is first treated to remove scales. It is then fed into a wire drawing machine which may have one or more blocks in series.\n\nSingle block wire drawing machines include means for holding the dies accurately in position and for drawing the wire steadily through the holes. The usual design consists of a cast-iron bench or table having a bracket standing up to hold the die, and a vertical drum which rotates and by coiling the wire around its surface pulls it through the die, the coil of wire being stored upon another drum or \"swift\" which lies behind the die and reels off the wire as fast as required. The wire drum or \"block\" is provided with means for rapidly coupling or uncoupling it to its vertical shaft, so that the motion of the wire may be stopped or started instantly. The block is also tapered, so that the coil of wire may be easily slipped off upwards when finished. Before the wire can be attached to the block, a sufficient length of it must be pulled through the die; this is effected by a pair of gripping pincers on the end of a chain which is wound around a revolving drum, so drawing the wire until enough can be coiled two or three times on the block, where the end is secured by a small screw clamp or vice. When the wire is on the block, it is set in motion and the wire is drawn steadily through the die; it is very important that the block rotates evenly and that it runs true and pulls the wire at a constant velocity, otherwise \"snatching\" occurs which will weaken or even break the wire. The speeds at which wire is drawn vary greatly, according to the material and the amount of reduction.\n\nMachines with continuous blocks differ from single block machines by having a series of dies through which the wire is drawn in a continuous fashion. Due to the elongation and slips, the speed of the wire changes after each successive redraw. This increased speed is accommodated by having a different rotation speed for each block. One of these machines may contain 3 to 12 dies. The operation of threading the wire through all the dies and around the blocks is termed \"stringing-up\". The arrangements for lubrication include a pump which floods the dies, and in many cases also the bottom portions of the blocks run in lubricant.\n\nOften intermediate anneals are required to counter the effects of cold working, and to allow further drawing. A final anneal may also be used on the finished product to maximize ductility and electrical conductivity.\n\nAn example of product produced in a continuous wire drawing machine is telephone wire. It is drawn 20 to 30 times from hot rolled rod stock.\n\nWhile round cross-sections dominate most drawing processes, non-circular cross-sections are drawn. They are usually drawn when the cross-section is small and quantities are too low to justify rolling. In these processes, a block or Turk's-head machine are used.\n\nLubrication in the drawing process is essential for maintaining good surface finish and long die life. The following are different methods of lubrication:\n\nVarious lubricants, such as oil, are employed. Another lubrication method is to immerse the wire in a copper(II) sulfate solution, such that a film of copper is deposited which forms a kind of lubricant. In some classes of wire the copper is left after the final drawing to serve as a preventive of rust or to allow easy soldering.The best example of copper coated wire is in MIG wire used in welding.\n\nThe strength-enhancing effect of wire drawing can be substantial. The highest strengths available on any steel have been recorded on small-diameter cold-drawn austenitic stainless wire.\n\nDrawing dies are typically made of tool steel, tungsten carbide, or diamond, with tungsten carbide and manufactured diamond being the most common. For drawing very fine wire a single crystal diamond die is used. For hot drawing, cast-steel dies are used. For steel wire drawing, a tungsten carbide die is used. The dies are placed in a steel casing, which backs the die and allow for easy die changes. Die angles usually range from 6–15°, and each die has at least 2 different angles: the entering angle and approach angle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860647", "title": "Latino American Dawah Organization", "text": "Latino American Dawah Organization\n\nThe Latino American Dawah Organization (LADO) is a grassroots organization founded in September 1997 by a handful of Latino converts to Islam in New York City. The organization's name was selected to express LADO's ethnic and religious identity as Latinos/Hispanics and as Muslims. LADO also wanted to emphasize that this would be an Islamic organization whose primary purpose would be dawah and education to Latinos. Today, the Latino American Dawah Organization is known by most Muslims as simply \"LADO\" and as \"The LADO Group.\" In Spanish, LADO is known as \"El Grupo LADO.\" The acronym LADO means 'side' in Spanish. The motto of the Latino American Dawah Organization is \"¡Puro Latino! ¡Puro Islam! ¡A su LADO!\" (meaning \"Pure Latino! Pure Islam! At your side!\"). \n\nLADO members seek to aid all Muslims and non-Muslims by sharing Islam as expressed in its mission statement. LADO disseminates Islam by providing Islamic literature in the form of books, brochures, and other media in English, Spanish and whenever possible, Portuguese. Because few materials are available to the Spanish-speaking and Portuguese-speaking communities, LADO emphasizes this aspect of Islamic dawah. In addition to educating anyone about Islam, LADO will also guide whom they can to the right resources. LADO is committed to attending, visiting, and working with mosques, attending special Islamic events, interfaith talks, various lectures, translating existing literature, and writing articles and editorials among other things. Through these initiatives, LADO has not only become a network among Latino Muslims, but has also become a liaison between Latino Muslims and the general Muslim community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860654", "title": "Center for Science in the Public Interest", "text": "Center for Science in the Public Interest\n\nThe Center for Science in the Public Interest (CSPI) is a Washington, D.C.-based non-profit watchdog and consumer advocacy group that advocates for safer and healthier foods.\n\nCSPI is a consumer advocacy organization. Its focus is nutrition and health, food safety, and alcohol policy. CSPI was headed by the microbiologist Michael F. Jacobson, who founded the group in 1971 along with the meteorologist James Sullivan and the chemist Albert Fritsch, two fellow scientists from Ralph Nader's Center for the Study of Responsive Law. In the early days, CSPI focused on various aspects such as nutrition, environmental issues, and nuclear energy. However, after the 1977 departure of Fritsch and Sullivan, CSPI began to focus largely on nutrition and food safety and began publishing nutritional analyses and critiques.\n\nCSPI has 501(c)(3) status. Its chief source of income is its \"Nutrition Action Healthletter\", which has about 900,000 subscribers and does not accept advertising. The organization receives about 5 to 10 percent of its $17 million annual budget from grants by private foundations.\n\nCSPI has more than sixty staff-members and an annual budget from over $20 million.\n\nJacobson now serves as a Senior Scientist at CSPI, with Peter Lurie acting as the organization's current President.\n\nCSPI advocates for clearer nutrition and food labeling. For example, labeling of \"low-fat\" or \"heart healthy\" foods in restaurants must now meet specific requirements established by the Food and Drug Administration as of May 2, 1997. \n\nIn 1994, the group first brought the issue of high saturated fat in movie popcorn to the public attention.\n\nIn 1975, CSPI published a \"White Paper on Infant Feeding Practices\" aimed at criticizing the commercial baby food industry's products and advertising. The White Paper started a formalized, political discussion of issues surrounding early introduction of solid foods and the extraordinarily processed ingredients in commercial baby food. CSPI took particular issue with the modified starches, excessive sugar and salt additions, and presence of nitrates in baby food products. In addition, the White Paper criticized branding and advertisements on products, which they argued lead mothers to believe that solid foods ought to be introduced earlier in an infant's diet.\n\nIn 1989, CSPI was instrumental in convincing fast-food restaurants to stop using animal fat for frying. They would later campaign against the use of trans fats.\n\nCSPI's 1994 petition led to FDA's 2003 regulation requiring trans fat to be disclosed on food labels. CSPI's 2004 petition, as well as a later one from a University of Illinois professor, led to the FDA's ban of partially hydrogenated vegetable oil, the major source of artificial trans fat. \n\nIn 1998, the Center published a report entitled \"Liquid Candy: How Soft Drinks are Harming Americans' Health\". It examined statistics relating to the soaring consumption of soft drinks, particularly by children, and the consequent health ramifications including tooth decay, nutritional depletion, obesity, type-2 (formerly known as \"adult-onset\") diabetes, and heart disease. It also reviewed soft drink marketing and made various recommendations aimed at reducing soft drink consumption, in schools and elsewhere. A second, updated edition of the report was published in 2005. Among the actions they advocate are taxing soft drinks. Sugar-sweetened beverages are taxed in Berkeley, CA; Philadelphia, PA; Boulder, CO; San Francisco, CA; Oakland, CA; Albany, CA; and Cook County, IL. Seattle introduced a city-wide comprehensive sugary drinks tax in 2019. CSPI followed up with a 2013 petition calling on the FDA to limit the sugar content of soft drinks and to set voluntary targets for sugar levels in other foods with added sugars. \n\nIn 2003, it worked with lawyer John F. Banzhaf III to pressure ice cream retailers to display nutritional information about their products.\n\nIn January 2016, the Center released a report entitled Seeing Red - Time for Action on Food Dyes which criticized the continued use of artificial food coloring in the United States. The report estimated that over half a million children in the United States suffer adverse behavioral reactions as a result of ingesting food dyes, with an estimated cost exceeding $5 billion per year, citing data from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The report urges the Food and Drug Administration to take action to ban or curtail the use of such dyes. CSPI has urged companies to replace synthetic colorings with natural ones, and Mars, General Mills, and other major food manufacturers have begun doing so.\n\nCSPI has worked since the 1970s to improve the nutritional quality of school meals, and remove soda and unhealthy foods from school vending machines, snack bars, and a la carte lines. Despite pushback from the soda and snack food industries, CSPI successfully worked with a number of local school districts and states to pass policies in the early 2000s to restrict the sale of soda and other unhealthy snack foods in schools. In 2004, CSPI worked with members of the National Alliance for Nutrition and Activity (NANA) (a CSPI-led coalition) to include a provision in the Child Nutrition and WIC Reauthorization Act of 2004 to ensure all local school districts develop a nutrition and physical activity wellness policy by 2006.\n\nIn 2010, CSPI and NANA led the successful effort to pass the Healthy, Hunger-Free Kids Act, a landmark law to improve child nutrition programs. The law (enacted 12/13/10) authorized the U.S. Department of Agriculture to update the nutrition standards for snacks and beverages sold in schools through vending machines, a la carte lines, school stores, fundraisers, and other school venues. CSPI worked with NANA to mobilize support for the updated nutrition standards and urge the USDA to adopt strong final school nutrition standards (released in June 2013). Despite opposition from some members of Congress and the potato and pizza industries (which lobbied for unlimited french fries and ketchup as a vegetable in school meals) CSPI and NANA's efforts also resulted in strong nutrition standards for school lunches.\n\nOne of CSPI's top goals has been to ensure that consumers have reliable information about what they eat and drink. Since the early 2000s, CSPI has worked with policymakers and advocates in Philadelphia, New York City, California, and numerous other jurisdictions to pass laws to list calories on menus and menu boards. In addition to making calorie information available to consumers, a key benefit of menu labeling has been the reformulation of existing food items and the introduction of nutritionally improved items in many chain restaurants.\n\nIn 2010, CSPI successfully lobbied for a provision, which was passed as part of the Affordable Care Act, to require calorie labeling on menus at chain restaurants and similar retail food establishments nationwide. The Food and Drug Administration proposed regulations for menu labeling in 2011, and CSPI has since worked to continue to mobilize support for national menu labeling, diffuse opposition from Congress and special interests, and encourage the FDA to strengthen the final regulations and release them in a timely manner. Menu labeling was implemented nationally in 2018.\n\nOne of CSPI's largest projects is its Food Safety Initiative, directed to reduce food contamination and foodborne illness. In addition to publishing \"Outbreak Alert!\", a compilation of food-borne illnesses and outbreaks, the project advocated for the Food Safety Modernization Act, which was signed into law in 2011. The law refocused government attention on preventing food contamination rather than on identifying problems after they caused outbreaks of illnesses.\n\nCSPI has been working with other members of the National Alliance for Nutrition and Activity (NANA) to ensure that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) has adequate resources to address nutrition, physical activity, and obesity. In recent years, funding for CDC's obesity prevention programs has flat lined, despite obesity continuing to be a top public health threat in the country. In fiscal year 2017, Congress provided CDC with just under $62 million for the Division of Nutrition, Physical Activity, and Obesity (DNPAO); that is a mere 0.7% of total CDC funding and 4% of CDC's chronic disease budget, significantly less than for cancer (30%), tobacco (18%), diabetes (14%), and heart disease and stroke (14%). The NANA coalition has also been defending CDC's Prevention Fund, which has provided $1 billion per year in annual funding to support immunizations, education campaigns, and other measures to prevent illnesses and lower health-care costs.\n\nBetween 2011 and 2016, CSPI sponsored Food Day, a nationwide celebration of healthy, affordable, and sustainably produced food and a grassroots campaign for better food policies.\n\nFood Day's goal was to help people \"Eat Real,\" which the project defined as cutting back on sugar drinks, overly salted packaged foods, and fatty, factory-farmed meats in favor of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and sustainably raised protein. This annual event involved some of the country's most prominent food activists, united by a vision of food that is healthy, affordable, and produced with care for the environment, farm animals, and the people who grow, harvest, and serve it.\n\nAcross the country, several thousand events took place each year, from community festivals in Denver, Savannah, and New York City, to a national conference in Washington, DC, to thousands of school activities in Portland, Minneapolis, and elsewhere.\n\nThe group's \"Alcohol Policies Project,\" now discontinued, advocated against what it considers adverse societal influences of alcohol, such as marketing campaigns that target young drinkers, and promoted turning self-imposed advertising bans by alcohol industry groups into law. \n\nIn 1985 CSPI organized Project SMART (Stop Marketing Alcohol on Radio and Television). It generated huge public interest, a petition campaign that obtained a million signatures, and congressional hearings. Members of the media joined the project, such as syndicated columnist Colman McCarthy. However, strong opposition from the alcoholic beverage and advertising industries ultimately prevailed.\n\nThe Alcohol Policies Project organized the \"Campaign for Alcohol-Free Sports TV\". Launched in 2003 with the support of at least 80 other local and national groups, the campaign asked schools to pledge to prohibit alcohol advertising on local sports programming and to work toward eliminating alcohol advertising from televised college sports programs. It also sought Congressional support for such a prohibition. CSPI also sponsored Project SMART--Stop Marketing Alcohol on Radio and TV--which called for federal bans on marketing. The project gathered more than 1 million signatures on a petition, which it presented to Congress at a hearing. That effort was unsuccessful.\n\nIn addition, CSPI has pressured alcoholic beverage companies with lawsuits. In one such lawsuit, filed in September 2008, the Center \"sue[d] MillerCoors Brewing Company over its malt beverage Sparks, arguing that the caffeine and guarana in the drink are additives that have not been approved by the FDA,\" and that the combination of those ingredients with alcohol resulted in \"more drunk driving, more injuries, and more sexual assaults.\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, CSPI designed social marketing campaigns to encourage adults and children (over age two) to switch from high-fat (whole and 2%) milk to low-fat (1% and fat-free) milk, alleging such a switch would lower their risk of heart disease by reducing saturated fat intake. The 1% or Less campaign used paid advertising, public relations, and community-based programs. The campaign was effective in communities nationwide, doubling low-fat milk sales data over the course of the eight-week pilot campaign. Much of that change was maintained over a year.\n\nCurrent research as of 2018 suggests higher-fat-content dairy products carry greater nutritional benefit, with neutral impact on cardiovascular disease from milk, and neutral to favorable impact from fermented dairy products.\n\nDuring the 1980s, CSPI's campaign \"Saturated Fat Attack\" advocated the replacement of beef tallow, palm oil and coconut oil in processed foods and restaurant foods with fats containing less saturated fatty acids, CSPI assumed that trans fats were benign. In a 1986 book entitled \"The Fast-Food Guide\", it praised chains such as KFC that had converted to partially hydrogenated vegetable oils, which are lower in saturated fat but high in trans fat. As a result of this pressure, many restaurants such as McDonald's made the switch.\n\nAfter new scientific research in the early 1990s found that trans fat increased the risk of heart disease, CSPI began leading a successful two-decades-long effort to ban artificial trans fat. From the mid-1990s onward, however, CSPI identified trans fats as the greater public health danger. CSPI executive director Michael Jacobson went on record saying, \"Twenty years ago, scientists (including me) thought trans [fat] was innocuous. Since then, we've learned otherwise.\"\n\nIn response, three trade groups – the National Restaurant Association, the National Association of Margarine Manufacturers and the Institute of Shortening and Edible Oils — \"said the evidence [on trans fat] was contradictory and inconclusive, and accused [CSPI] of jumping to a premature conclusion.\"\n\nIn 1994, CSPI petitioned the FDA to require trans fat to be added to Nutrition Facts labels, and in 2004, with stronger evidence of trans fat's harmfulness, CSPI petitioned FDA to ban partially hydrogenated oil, the source of most artificial trans fat. In 2003 FDA required trans fat to be labeled, and in 2015 FDA banned the use of partially hydrogenated oil.\n\nFormer U.S. Representative Bob Barr (a libertarian-leaning Republican) accused CSPI of pursuing \"a pre-existing political agenda\" and pointed to individual responsibility for dietary choices. Cato Institute (a Washington D.C.-based libertarian think tank) scholar Walter Olson wrote that the group's \"longtime shtick is to complain that businesses like McDonald's, rather than our own choices, are to blame for rising obesity,\" and called CSPI's suit against McDonald's for using toys to encourage young children to ask for the company's Happy Meals on behalf of a California mother a \"new low in responsible parenting.\"\n\nIn 2002, the Center for Consumer Freedom published a series of print and radio ads designed in part to drive traffic to the CCF website that provided additional critical information about CSPI. A \"San Francisco Chronicle\" article identified CSPI as \"one of two groups singled out [by the CCF] for full-on attack,\" and said, \"What's not mentioned on the [CCF] Web site is that it's one of a cluster of such nonprofits started... by Berman.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1860659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860659", "title": "Robert H. Gundry", "text": "Robert H. Gundry\n\nRobert Horton Gundry (born 1932) is an American scholar and retired professor of New Testament studies and Koine Greek.\n\nGundry received B.A. and B.D. degrees from the Los Angeles Baptist College and Seminary in the 1950s, and in 1961 a Ph.D. from Manchester University, England, where he worked under F. F. Bruce. For 38 years, beginning in 1962, he taught at Westmont College in Santa Barbara, California. In 1997 the college installed Gundry in its first endowed faculty chair and soon afterwards established also the Robert H. Gundry Chair of Biblical Studies. Upon his retirement in 2000 the college made him professor emeritus and scholar-in-residence. He has been a frequent contributor to periodicals such as \"Books and Culture\" and \"Education and Culture\".\n\nBesides many articles and reviews that have appeared in scholarly journals, Gundry has published major scholarly commentaries on the Gospel of Mark and the Gospel of Matthew. The one on Matthew caused a controversy that led to his resignation from the Evangelical Theological Society (ETS) at that society’s request in 1983. Voters favoring the request reckoned that the commentary was at odds with the society’s affirmation of scriptural inerrancy. Using redaction criticism, Gundry argued that Matthew tailored the story of Jesus, sometimes unhistorically, to meet the needs of the Gospel’s intended audience. Especially troubling to many in the ETS was Gundry’s contention that Matthew made unhistorical, theologically motivated revisions of the infancy story in Matthew.\n\nEarlier, Gundry had been asked to furnish a commentary on Matthew in the \"Expositor’s Bible Commentary\" (EBC), a major evangelical series of commentaries published over the course of a decade or more in the 1970s and 1980s, as each section was completed. When he submitted his proposed commentary to Frank Gaebelein, general editor of the series, Gaebelein pronounced the commentary acceptable; but the subeditors Merrill C. Tenney and James M. Boice objected to its use of redaction criticism. Gaebelein pronounced acceptable Gundry’s successive revised versions as well; but Tenney and Boice objected again, to both of them, so that D. A. Carson of Trinity Evangelical Divinity School was assigned to write on Matthew. This assignment caused a delay of several years in the publication of the EBC’s volume on the Synoptic Gospels. Meanwhile, Eerdmans Publishing Company brought out a longer, more technical version of Gundry’s work.\n\nAccording to Gundry, his work does not call into question the inerrancy of the Gospel of Matthew. He argues, to the contrary, that inerrancy must be considered in the twin lights of authorial intent and acceptable literary standards of the author’s time and place, and that Matthew intentionally and acceptably \"treats us to history mixed with elements that cannot be called historical in a modern sense.\" To be called inerrant, then, Matthew’s Gospel need not be measured against standards of modern historical writing. By contrast, says Gundry, \"Luke states a historical purpose along lines that run closer to modern history writing ...\" These views were supported by a significant portion of the ETS; and after looking into the matter, the society’s executive committee cleared Gundry. But a campaign against him, spearheaded by Norman Geisler, resulted in the request that he resign. Against his critics, Gundry has contended that he treats biblical wording more seriously than they do when they construct strained harmonizations to maintain historicity at every point. Outside certain quarters of the ETS, his work is generally considered a model of conservative evangelicalism.\n\nGundry’s other published books include \"The Use of the Old Testament in St. Matthew’s Gospel\" (based on his doctoral dissertation), \"Sōma in Biblical Theology\" (arguing for a physical meaning of “body,” even in figurative usage), and \"The Old Is Better\" (containing new and revised essays on various topics). His two books \"The Church and the Tribulation\" and \"First the Antichrist\" undermine the popular view that Christians will be “raptured” out of the world prior to a coming tribulation (see Second Coming).\n\nYet another book, \"Jesus the Word according to John the Sectarian\", argues that American evangelicalism needs to return, \"mutatis mutandis\", to the enlightened fundamentalism of the early 20th century, as distinct from the obscurantist fundamentalism of the mid-20th century. In 2000 Gundry presented the essence of \"Jesus the Word\" at the 30th annual lecture of the Institute for Biblical Research.\n\n\"Extracurriculars: Teaching Christianly Outside Class\" contains talks delivered on various occasions at Westmont College, and the title \"Peter: False Disciple and Apostate according to Saint Matthew\" is self-explanatory.\n\nGundry's texbook, \"A Survey of the New Testament\", has been translated into Portuguese, Serbo-Croatian, Korean, Russian, and Turkish. His \"Commentary on the New Testament\" includes his own, literal translation of the entire New Testament and verse-by-verse explanations of its original meaning and contains many independent judgments not found elsewhere in either scholarly or popular literature.\n\n\nIn 1994 Gundry was presented with a Festschrift, \"To Tell the Mystery: Essays on New Testament Eschatology in Honor of Robert H. Gundry\" (ed. Thomas E. Schmidt and Moisés Silva; Sheffield: JSOT, 1994). \nIn 2014 a second Festschrift was presented to him: \"Reconsidering the Relationship between Biblical and Systematic Theology in the New Testament\" (ed. Benjamin E. Reynolds, Brian Lugioyo, and Kevin J. Vanhoozer; WUNT 2/369; Tübingen: Mohr Siebeck, 2014). \n"}
{"id": "1860665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860665", "title": "Ministop", "text": "Ministop\n\nThe usual Japanese convenience store goods are available, such as magazines, manga comic books, soft drinks, contraceptives, onigiri ; services include bill payment, photocopying, ticket purchase for events and ATM access. Ministop also has its own unique brand of fast food. The menu varies according to season and periodical promotions. A typical selection might include hot dogs, sandwiches, frozen desserts such as soft serve ice cream, kariman and \"chūkaman\"—Siopao-style buns with various fillings. Ministop also operates in South Korea, the Philippines (under Robinsons Malls), Indonesia, China, Vietnam and Kazakhstan.\n\nThe first Ministop store in South Korea opened in November 1990 in Mok-dong. As of October 2017, there were 2418 operating Ministop stores.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860675", "title": "Circle K Sunkus", "text": "Circle K Sunkus\n\nThe typical Japanese convenience store goods such as magazines, manga, soft drinks, contraceptives, onigiri, and bento are available.\n\nAs of September 1, 2016, all Circle K Sunkus stores have been rebranded as FamilyMart stores as a result of the FamilyMart Co. and Uny Group Holdings Co. merger.\n\nThe first Circle K store in Japan opened on March 15, 1980 in Tenpaku-ku, Nagoya. \n\nThe first Sunkus store opened in Aoba-ku, Sendai on July 23, 1980. The Sunkus chain expanded to Tokyo in 1981, Hokkaido in 1982, Osaka in 1989 and Nagoya in 1992.\n\nSunkus and Circle K Japan formed an equity and business alliance in October 1998.\n\nThe franchiser, Sunkus & Associates Inc. officially merged with Circle K Japan Co., Ltd. as of the September 1, 2004 fiscal year and was known officially as Circle K Sunkus Co., Ltd (株式会社サークルKサンクス). The two brands remained separate — convenience stores owned by the company have either a Sunkus sign or a Circle K sign.\n\nThe word \"Sunkus\" is a combination of the words \"Sun\" and the word \"Thanks\", The logo is a combination of the words \"Sun\", \"Kids\", and \"Us\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1860687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860687", "title": "Zeyawaddy", "text": "Zeyawaddy\n\nZeyawaddy () is a small town located north of Rangoon, Burma.\n\nWith the view of transferring population from densely populated regions of Bihar & Northern Provinces( Uttar Pradesh to waste lands/jungles of Burma, the British Government offered large tracts of land in Burma by way of Grants, to big Indian Zamindars & Princely States to take up the migration work. Invitations were sent to the Maharaja of Dumraon as well as to the Dewan of Dumraon State. While the Maharaja declined the offer, Dewan Jai Prakash Lall C.I.E. accepted the offer and was granted 18340 acres of land in Zayawaddy region in Myanmar by the British Empire. \nDewan Jai Prakash Lall C.I.E. & his son Rai Bahadur Harihar Prasad Singh took neighboring people from Bihar & Northern Provinces to Myanmar and let them cut and clean the forest in that land and allowed them to grow paddy & sugar cane to earn living.\n\nIn 1934-35 a sugar mill, bought from Britain was set up by Rai Bahadur Harihar Prasad Singh & his son, Mr. Chandradeva Prakash Sinha. The mill had a capacity of 1000 tons per year initially, which was expanded to 2,500 tons before the second World War. The mill was the largest sugar mill in Burma of the time. New machinery was also bought during the war days to further expand capacity. The sugar factory had been running till 1952-53.\n\nIn 1954 the mill was nationalized by the Myanmar Government and the factory was run by the Government thereafter.\nNow the local Burmese and Indians are living together with harmony and the world and others part of the Myanmar should learn how they live together.\n"}
{"id": "1860692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860692", "title": "John Mabry", "text": "John Mabry\n\nJohn Steven Mabry (born October 17, 1970) is an American former professional baseball player, broadcaster, and coach. He is a coach for the Kansas City Royals of Major League Baseball (MLB). He had 898 career hits in 3409 at-bats (for a batting average of .263), with 96 home runs and 446 RBI. He is 6'4\" tall, weighs 210 lbs, bats left-handed and throws right-handed. John Mabry attended West Chester University of Pennsylvania and was inducted into their Athletics Hall of Fame.\n\nMabry, a graduate of Bohemia Manor High School, in Chesapeake City, Maryland, played three years at West Chester University of Pennsylvania, before being drafted by the St. Louis Cardinals in the 6th round of the amateur draft.\n\nDuring his fourteen-year MLB career Mabry played for eight teams, including three different stints with the Cardinals (–, , –). In Mabry's only season with over 400 at bats, he led the Cardinals with 161 hits and was fourth in the National League for first basemen in fielding percentage at .994 and was errorless in 14 games in the outfield. He hit for a natural cycle in a May 18, loss to the Colorado Rockies.\n\nMabry was one of the few major leaguers who preferred not to wear batting gloves. He was also somewhat versatile on defense, playing more than 100 games at left and right field as well as first and third base. He also made two career appearances pitching with dubious results. In 1 inning of work he gave up 7 earned runs for a career ERA of 63.\n\nIn April, 2011, Fox Sports Midwest hired Mabry to serve as baseball analyst during St. Louis Cardinals live pre-game and post-game shows, a role he shared with former Cardinals Mike Matheny and Cal Eldred.\n\nOn December 2, 2011 the Cardinals named Mabry the assistant hitting coach to Mark McGwire in 2012, soon after announcing former teammate Mike Matheny would be the new manager. On November 5, 2012, the Cardinals promoted Mabry to hitting coach following McGwire's departure to the Los Angeles Dodgers. Former major league catcher Bengie Molina succeeded Mabry as the assistant hitting coach.\nMabry was released from his position as hitting coach with the St. Louis Cardinals when manager Mike Matheny was fired on Saturday, July 14, 2018, just days before the All-Star break of the 2018 season. \n\nOn December 5, 2019, Mabry was added to the Kansas City Royals staff as a major league coach.\n\nAfter his 2007 retirement as a player, Mabry continued to make his home in the St. Louis area along with his wife Ann and their four children. Long an avid outdoorsman, Mabry became a spokesman for Gander Mountain, making a series of videos on different aspects of hunting and fishing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860695", "title": "USS Seminole (1859)", "text": "USS Seminole (1859)\n\nThe first USS \"Seminole\" was a steam sloop-of-war in the United States Navy during the American Civil War.\n\n\"Seminole\" was launched by the Pensacola Navy Yard on 25 June 1859; sponsored by Ms. Mary Dallas; and was commissioned there on 25 April 1860, Commander Edward R. Thomson in command.\n\n\"Seminole\" sailed for Brazil on 16 July 1860 and served on the Brazil Station until called home soon after the outbreak of the American Civil War. The ship departed Rio de Janeiro on 23 May 1861 and reached Philadelphia, Pennsylvania on 6 July.\n\nRapidly fitted out for blockade duty, \"Seminole\" was ordered on 16 July to proceed to Hampton Roads. After reporting for duty in the Atlantic Blockading Squadron, the ship sailed, via Charleston, South Carolina, for Savannah, Georgia. Upon exhausting her coal on blockade duty off that port, the ship sailed for Hampton Roads on 19 August, towing the prize schooner \"Albion\", and arrived off Newport News on the 23rd. A week later, on 30 August, the Confederate tug \"Harmony\" attacked the Union sailing sloop of war there. \"Seminole\" was in the vicinity and returned the fire, but her shells did not reach the Southern ship.\n\nOn 9 September, \"Seminole\" and sailed for the Potomac River to check the threat posed by the concentration of a large Confederate force on the south bank of the river below Alexandria. On the 21st, a boat from \"Seminole\" captured the sloop \"Maryland\" in the Potomac. Four days later, \"Seminole\" and engaged a Confederate battery at Freestone Point, Virginia. After repairs at the Washington Navy Yard, \"Seminole\" returned to Hampton Roads on 16 October where she awaited the arrival of Flag Officer Samuel F. Du Pont, commander of the newly established South Atlantic Blockading Squadron.\n\nOn 7 November, \"Seminole\" was in the task force which captured Port Royal, South Carolina. The ships bombarded Forts Walker and Beauregard and forced the Confederates to abandon them. This gave the Union Navy an invaluable base for blockade operations off South Carolina, Georgia, and Florida. On 1 December, \"Seminole\" seized the sloop \"Lida\" off St. Simons Sound, Georgia, attempting to slip into the South laden with coffee, lead, and sugar from Havana, Cuba. Early in March, \"Seminole\" participated in the expedition which captured Fernandina, Florida. \n\nOn 25 March 1862, \"Seminole\" was ordered to Hampton Roads to strengthen Union naval forces there which were threatened by the dreaded Confederate ironclad . Control of these strategic waters was especially important at that time because General George McClellan was about to launch his Peninsula Campaign against the Southern capital, Richmond, Virginia. On 8 May, \"Seminole\" joined , , , and in shelling Confederate batteries at Sewell's Point, Virginia. In response, \"Virginia\" came out, but not far enough to be rammed. Norfolk, Virginia was soon abandoned by Southern troops. Late in June, \"Seminole\" was ordered to the New York Navy Yard for repairs.\n\nThe ship was recommissioned on 8 June 1863 and assigned to the West Gulf Blockading Squadron. \"En route\" south, she captured the Confederate steamer on 11 July. On 11 September, she took the steamer \"Sir William Peel\" off the mouth of the Rio Grande. This British merchantman was carrying 1,000 bales of cotton at the time of her capture. \n\nThe high point of her service in the West Gulf Blockading Squadron came on 5 August 1864 when she participated in the Battle of Mobile Bay. She passed the forts guarding the entrance to the bay lashed to but, as the action became general, cast off from her consort. After the Southern ironclad surrendered, prisoners taken from her were taken on board \"Seminole\".\n\nIn the days that followed, the ships of Farragut's fleet were busy clearing torpedoes from the waters and bombarding Fort Morgan until it surrendered on the 23rd.\n\nFive days later, \"Seminole\" was ordered to Pensacola, Florida for repairs. On 14 September, the ship was sent to Galveston, Texas, and she remained active along the coast of Texas through the end of the war, taking the schooner \"Josephine\", which was attempting to slip out of Galveston laden with cotton on 14 January 1865. Her final action of the war came on 23 May, when she sent a party on board \"Denbigh\" and helped to set the blockade runner aflame. \n\n\"Seminole\" sailed for the North on 20 July and was decommissioned at the Boston Navy Yard on 11 August, where it was laid up until sold on 20 July 1870 to Mullen and Winchester.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860699", "title": "Gospel of Truth", "text": "Gospel of Truth\n\nThe Gospel of Truth is one of the Gnostic texts from the New Testament apocrypha found in the Nag Hammadi codices (\"NHC\"). It exists in two Coptic translations, a Subakhmimic rendition surviving almost in full in the first Nag Hammadi codex (the \"Jung Codex\") and a Sahidic in fragments in the twelfth codex.\n\nThe Gospel of Truth is not titled but the name for the work is from the first three words of the text, it may have been written in Greek between 140 and 180 by Valentinian Gnostics (or, as some posit, by Valentinus himself). It was known to Irenaeus of Lyons, who objected to its Gnostic content and declared it heresy. Irenaeus declares it one of the works of the disciples of \"Valentinius\", and the similarity of the work to others thought to be by Valentinus and his followers has made many scholars agree.\n\nBut the followers of Valentinus, putting away all fear, bring forward their own compositions and boast that they have more Gospels than really exist. Indeed their audacity has gone so far that they entitle their recent composition the Gospel of Truth, though it agrees in nothing with the Gospels of the apostles, and so no Gospel of theirs is free from blasphemy. For if what they produce is the Gospel of Truth, and is different from those the apostles handed down to us, those who care to can learn how it can be shown from the Scriptures themselves that [then] what is handed down from the apostles is not the Gospel of Truth. \n\nOther scholars have argued for a forth century composition for the book we now have. \n\nAfter its Coptic translations and their burial at Nag Hammadi, the text had been lost until the Nag Hammadi discovery.\n\nThe text is written with strong poetic skill (notable even in translation), and includes a heavily cyclical presentation of themes. It is not a \"gospel\" in the sense of an account of the works of Jesus of Nazareth, but is better understood as a homily. The text is generally considered by scholars one of the best written texts in the whole Nag Hammadi collection, considering its worth highly as both a great literary work and a gnostic exegesis on several gospels, canonical and otherwise. The ideas expressed deviate from the views of Valentivian gnosticism.\nThe writing is thought to cite or allude to the New Testament Gospels of Matthew and John, as well as 1 and 2 Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Colossians, Hebrews, 1 John and the Book of Revelation. It cites John's Gospel the most often. It is also influenced by Thomas; for instance at one point (22:13-19) it cites John 3:8 alongside Thomas 28.\n\nThe text says that ignorance caused the formation of the world by the aeons. It then describes Jesus as having been sent down by God to remove ignorance from humans and the aeons, to perfect them and restore union with the Father and correct the error that was the creation of the world. Jesus was a teacher confounding the other scribes and teachers, and asserted they were foolish since they tried to understand the world by analyzing the law. But Error grew angry at this, and nailed Jesus to a cross. It also proceeds to describe how it is knowledge of the father that grants salvation, which constitutes eternal rest, describing ignorance as a nightmare.\n\nHaving next described the parable of the good shepherd, in an esoteric manner, it then describes how feeding the hungry and giving rest to the weary is to be understood as feeding spiritual hunger, and resting the world weary.\n\nThis is followed by a parable about anointing, the meaning of which is obscure, but may be connected with the way in which a sealed amphora meant it was full, a metaphor for knowledge - having the final \"seal\" in the jigsaw and you understand, but without it, the scraps of understanding you have put together can still be easily undone:\nBut those whom he has anointed are the ones who have become perfect. For full jars are the ones that are usually anointed. But when the anointing of one (jar) is dissolved, it is emptied, and the reason for there being a deficiency is the thing by which its ointment goes. For at that time a breath draws it, a thing in the power of that which is with it. But from him who has no deficiency, no seal is removed, nor is anything emptied, but what he lacks, the perfect Father fills again.\nAside from a final description of achieving rest by gnosis, the remainder of the text concerns a treatise on the connection between the relationship between the Son and the Father, and the relationship of a name to its owner. The prime example of this is the phrase it uses that \"the name of the Father is the Son\", which is to be understood in the esoteric manner that the \"Son\" is the \"name\", rather than as meaning that \"Son\" was a name for the \"Father\".\n\nUnlike the canonical gospels, this gospel does not contain an account of Jesus' life or teaching. It does contain insights concerning the resurrected Jesus' 40-day ministry.\n\nThis gospel, like some other gnostic texts, can be interpreted as proclaiming predestination. One section states:\n\nLayton printed eight fragments of Valentinian literature, each being a quote which at least one of the Church Fathers claimed to take from the Valentinian corpus although none from the \"Gospel of Truth\". Layton further noted where the excerpts agree with one another.\n\n\"Fragment G\", which Clement of Alexandria (Stromateis 6.52.3-4) related to \"On Friends\", asserts that there is shared matter between Gnostic Christian material, and material found in \"publicly available books\"; which is the result of \"the law that is written in the [human] heart\". Layton relates this to GTr 19.34 - when Jesus taught, \"in their hearts appeared the living book of the living, which is written in the Father's thought and intellect\". Both rely on a shared concept of pre-existent yet obscured knowledge, which emanated from the Father of the Gnostics.\n\n\"Fragment F\" also comes from the Stromateis, 4.89.1-3. Directed to the Gnostics, it calls the congregation \"children of eternal life\" and hopes that they will \"nullify the world without being yourselves nullified\". Layton relates the former to GTr 43.22 at the end of the work, which emphasises that the Gnostics are the Father's children and will live eternally. Layton relates the latter to GTr 24.20, which proposes to \"nullify the realm of appearance\" and then explains this as the world that lacks the Father.\n\nThe concept that fear and the lack of knowledge are connected is evident;\n\nThere is also the mentioning of an awakening brought about through the acquiring of knowledge, and the dismissal of that which is not real, namely fear. Fear is not real because it does not come from the Father. That which is not light is not from the Father, such as a tree only brings forth one fruit, the Father's only fruit is light.\n\nThe level to which these writings express the power of the \"self\" in the coming of knowledge, and the conflict of the innate perception that the average person is too weak, too full of misconceptions to be able to lift themselves up is addressed. The theme of the Gospels is that Christ saves only those whom the Father gives to him. The average person is not poor in spirit, but haughty, and therefore too weak to save himself without the sacrifice of God on our behalf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860703", "title": "Steve Lemme", "text": "Steve Lemme\n\nStephen Carlos Lemme (born November 13, 1968) is an American actor, writer, and producer, and one of the members of the Broken Lizard comedy group. He attended The Dalton School, a high school in New York, but after one year transferred to Fountain Valley School in Colorado, graduating in 1987. He attended Colgate University and was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. Before leaving Colgate, he was part of Charred Goosebeak, a comedy troupe with the future Lizards. He has Argentine ancestry as his father is originally from Argentina. When he was young he got a polio vaccination and in an extremely rare case he developed polio, which resulted in the decay of his right calf muscle.\n"}
{"id": "1860707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860707", "title": "Solomon W. Golomb", "text": "Solomon W. Golomb\n\nSolomon Wolf Golomb (; May 30, 1932 – May 1, 2016) was an American mathematician, engineer, and professor of electrical engineering at the University of Southern California, best known for his works on mathematical games. Most notably, he invented Cheskers in 1948 and coined the name. He also fully described polyominoes and pentominoes in 1953. He specialized in problems of combinatorial analysis, number theory, coding theory, and communications. His game of pentomino inspired Tetris.\n\nGolomb, a graduate of the Baltimore City College high school, received his bachelor's degree from Johns Hopkins University and master's and doctorate degree in mathematics from Harvard University in 1957 with a dissertation on \"Problems in the Distribution of the Prime Numbers\".\n\nWhile working at the Glenn L. Martin Company he became interested in communications theory and began his work on shift register sequences. He spent his Fulbright year at the University of Oslo and then joined the Jet Propulsion Laboratory at Caltech, where he researched military and space communications. He joined the faculty of USC in 1963 and was awarded full tenure two years later.\n\nGolomb pioneered the identification of the characteristics and merits of maximum length shift register sequences, also known as pseudorandom or pseudonoise sequences, which have extensive military, industrial and consumer applications. Today, millions of cordless and cellular phones employ pseudorandom direct-sequence spread spectrum implemented with shift register sequences. His efforts made USC a center for communications research.\n\nGolomb was the inventor of Golomb coding, a form of entropy encoding. Golomb rulers, used in astronomy and in data encryption, are also named for him, as is one of the main generation techniques of Costas arrays, the Lempel-Golomb generation method.\n\nHe was a regular columnist, writing Golomb's Puzzle Column in the IEEE Information Society Newsletter. He was also a frequent contributor to \"Scientific American\"'s \"Mathematical Games\" column and a frequent participant in Gathering 4 Gardner conferences. Among his contributions to recreational mathematics are \"Rep-tiles\". He also contributed a puzzle to each issue of the \"Johns Hopkins Magazine,\" a monthly publication of his undergraduate alma mater, for a column called \"Golomb's Gambits\", and was a frequent contributor to \"\".\n\nGolomb was a member of both the National Academy of Engineering and the National Academy of Science.\n\nIn 1985, he received the Shannon Award of the Information Theory Society of the IEEE.\n\nIn 1992, he received the medal of the U.S. National Security Agency for his research, and has also been the recipient of the Lomonosov Medal of the Russian Academy of Science and the Kapitsa Medal of the Russian Academy of Natural Sciences.\n\nIn 2000, he was awarded the IEEE Richard W. Hamming Medal for his exceptional contributions to information sciences and systems. He was singled out as a major figure of coding and information theory for over four decades, specifically for his ability to apply advanced mathematics to problems in digital communications.\n\nGolomb was one of the first high profile professors to attempt the Ronald K. Hoeflin Mega IQ power test, which originally appeared in Omni Magazine. He scored at least IQ 176, which represents of the unselected population.\n\nIn 2012, he became a fellow of the American Mathematical Society. That same year, it was announced that he had been selected to receive the National Medal of Science. In 2014, he was elected as a fellow of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics \"for contributions to coding theory, data encryption, communications, and mathematical games.\"\n\nIn 2013, he was awarded the National Medal of Science 2011.\n\nIn 2016, he was awarded the Benjamin Franklin Medal in Electrical Engineering \"for pioneering work in space communications and the design of digital spread spectrum signals, transmissions that provide security, interference suppression, and precise location for cryptography; missile guidance; defense, space, and cellular communications; radar; sonar; and GPS.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860713", "title": "Benjamin Carl Unseld", "text": "Benjamin Carl Unseld\n\nBenjamin Carl Unseld (October 18, 1843 – November 19, 1923), better known as B. C. Unseld, was a gospel music teacher, composer, and publisher.\n\nUnseld was born October 18, 1843 in Shepherdstown, Virginia. In the early 1860s, he moved to Pennsylvania. Though mostly self-taught, he sang in the choir and accepted a position as organist at the Methodist Church in Columbia, Pennsylvania. He studied music under Eben Tourjée and Theodore F. Seward. B. C. Unseld taught at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston, Massachusetts, and was the school's first secretary. Later he taught at Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee, and was the first principal of the Virginia Normal School of Music. Unseld and Seward, with Biglow and Main publishers, imported John Curwen's Tonic Sol-fa method of shape note music and promoted it. The method was never widely received in the United States.\n\nDuring his lifetime, he worked with the Biglow & Main Company (New York City), Fillmore Music House (Cincinnati, Ohio) and the Lorenz Publishing Company (Dayton, Ohio). In 1911, Unseld moved to Lawrenceburg, Tennessee, to serve as dean of the new James D. Vaughan School of Music, one part of that famed entrepreneur's publishing enterprise. After 1914 he also served as editor of \"The Vaughan Family Visitor\", the company's monthly house periodical. Unseld died in Lawrenceburg on November 19, 1923, but was not buried there. His wife returned with his body to \"Old Virginia.\" He is buried in historic Elmwood Cemetery in Shepherdstown, West Virginia.\n\n\"The Tonic Sol-Fa Music Reader (with Theodore Seward, 1880)\", \"The Choral Standard\" (1895), \"Fillmore's School Singer for Day Schools, Juvenile Classes and Teachers' Institutes\" (with J. H. Fillmore, 1895), and \"Progress in Song\" (with E. T. Hildebrand, 1911). B. C. Unseld prepared the rudiments of music for A. S. Kieffer's popular \"Temple Star\". Unseld's tunes accompany hymns by James Rowe and Fanny J. Crosby. His most popular musical piece was entitled \"Twilight Is Stealing\", written with Aldine S. Kieffer.\n\nB. C. Unseld was inducted into the Southern Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860720", "title": "Bob Cooper", "text": "Bob Cooper\n\nBob Cooper may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860721", "title": "Little Milton", "text": "Little Milton\n\nJames Milton Campbell Jr. (September 7, 1934 – August 4, 2005), better known as Little Milton, was an American blues singer and guitarist, best known for his number-one R&B single \"We're Gonna Make It.\" His other hits include \"Baby, I Love You\", \"Who's Cheating Who?\", and \"Grits Ain't Groceries (All Around The World)\". \n\nA native of the Mississippi Delta, Milton began his recording career in 1953 at Sun Records before relocating to St. Louis and co-founding Bobbin Records in 1958. It wasn't until Milton signed to Checker Records that he achieved success on the charts. Other labels Milton recorded for include Meteor, Stax, Glades, Golden Ear, MCA, and Malaco. Milton was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame in 1988. \n\nMilton was born James Milton Campbell Jr. on September 7, 1934 in Inverness, Mississippi. We was and raised in Greenville, Mississippi by a farmer and local blues musician. By age twelve he was a street musician, chiefly influenced by T-Bone Walker and his blues and rock and roll contemporaries. He joined the Rhythm Aces in the early part of the 1950s, a three piece band who played throughout the Mississippi Delta area. One of the members was Eddie Cusic who taught Milton to play the guitar. In 1951, Milton recorded several sides backing pianist Willie Love for Trumpet Records.\n\nIn 1953, while still a teenager playing in local bars, he caught the attention of Ike Turner, who was at that time a talent scout for Sam Phillips at Sun Records. Milton signed a contract with the label and recorded a number of singles. None of them broke through onto radio or sold well at record stores, however, and Milton left the Sun label by 1955. The next two years he released singles on Modern Records's subsidiary, Meteor Records.\n\nIn 1958, Milton moved to he moved to East St. Louis and set up the St. Louis-based Bobbin Records label, which ultimately scored a distribution deal with Leonard Chess' Chess Records. As a record producer, Milton helped bring artists such as Albert King and Fontella Bass to fame, while experiencing his own success for the first time. After a number of small format and regional hits, his 1962 single, \"So Mean to Me,\" broke onto the \"Billboard\" R&B chart, eventually peaking at #14.\n\nFollowing a short break to tour, managing other acts, and spending time recording new material, he returned to music in 1965 with a more polished sound, similar to that of B.B. King. After the ill-received \"Blind Man\" (R&B: #86), he released back-to-back hit singles. The first, \"We're Gonna Make It,\" a blues-infused soul song, topped the R&B chart and broke through onto Top 40 radio, a format then dominated largely by white artists. He followed the song with #4 R&B hit \"Who's Cheating Who?\" All three songs were featured on his album, \"We're Gonna Make It\", released that summer.\n\nMilton’s song \"Let Me Down Easy\" was recorded by the Spencer Davis Group on \"The Second Album\" (1965), but his authorship was not acknowledged on the record. He released a single of it himself in 1968 on Checker. It was also chosen by Etta James as the final track in her final album \"The Dreamer\" in 2011.\n\nThroughout the late 1960s Milton released a number of moderately successful singles, but did not issue a further album until 1969, with \"Grits Ain't Groceries\" featuring his hit of the same name, as well as \"Just a Little Bit\" and \"Baby, I Love You\". With the death of Leonard Chess the same year, Milton's distributor, Checker Records fell into disarray, and Milton joined the Stax label two years later. Adding complex orchestration to his works, Milton scored hits with \"That's What Love Will Make You Do\" and \"What It Is\" from his live album, \"What It Is: Live at Montreux\". He appeared in the documentary film, \"Wattstax\", which was released in 1973. Stax, however, had been losing money since late in the previous decade and was forced into bankruptcy in 1975.\n\nAfter leaving Stax, Milton struggled to maintain a career, moving first to Evidence, then the MCA imprint Mobile Fidelity Records, before finding a home at the independent record label, Malaco Records, where he remained for much of the remainder of his career. His last hit single, \"Age Ain't Nothin' But a Number,\" was released in 1983 from the album of the same name. In 1988, Milton was inducted into the Blues Hall of Fame and won a W.C. Handy Award. His final album, \"Think of Me\", was released in May 2005 on the Telarc imprint, and included writing and guitar on three songs by Peter Shoulder of the UK-based blues-rock trio Winterville.\n\nMilton died at the age of 70 on August 4, 2005 from complications following a stroke. He was posthumously honored with a marker on the Mississippi Blues Trail in Inverness.\n\nOn June 25, 2019, \"The New York Times Magazine\" listed Little Milton among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire.\n\n\"Incomplete Listing\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860724", "title": "Robert Cooper", "text": "Robert Cooper\n\nRobert Cooper may refer to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860725", "title": "Mid-Atlantic Sports Network", "text": "Mid-Atlantic Sports Network\n\nMid-Atlantic Sports Network (MASN) is an American regional sports network owned as a joint venture between two Major League Baseball franchises, the Baltimore Orioles (which owns a controlling 77% interest) and the Washington Nationals (which owns the remaining 23%). Headquartered in Baltimore, Maryland, the channel broadcasts regional coverage of sports events in the Baltimore–Washington metropolitan area.\n\nMASN is available on approximately 23 cable and fiber optic television providers in Maryland, the District of Columbia, Virginia, eastern and central North Carolina, West Virginia, south central Pennsylvania and Delaware (on providers such as Comcast, Cox Communications, RCN, Mediacom, Charter Communications and Verizon FiOS, covering an area stretching from Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to Charlotte, North Carolina); it is also available nationwide on satellite via DirecTV and Dish Network.\n\nWhen the Montreal Expos relocated to Washington, D.C., in 2004 to begin play as the Nationals in 2005, issues arose regarding television rights for the new franchise. The Orioles have had a sizable following in the Washington area since moving from St. Louis in 1954, and have claimed Washington as part of their home territory since the second Washington Senators franchise became the Texas Rangers in 1972. Since at least 1981, Major League Baseball had designated the Orioles' television territory as extending from Harrisburg to Charlotte. The Orioles agreed to share their home territory with the Nationals in return for the ability to air Nationals games on the Orioles' planned regional sports network, to be named the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network. Major League Baseball, which owned the Expos-Nationals franchise from 2002 to 2006, paid the Orioles $75 million for a 10% stake in MASN, with the Orioles maintaining a controlling interest of 90%. As part of the deal, the Nationals' stake in the network would increase by one percent per year to 33% over 23 years, at which point the increases would cease and ownership would be fixed at 67% Orioles and 33% Nationals. Under the arrangement, MASN paid the Nationals $20 million to broadcast their games in 2005, and were bound to renegotiate the amount they paid the Nationals based on the fair market value of the Nationals′ broadcast rights in 2012 and once every five years thereafter. With this settled, the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network launched on April 4, 2005.\n\nThe family of Lerner Enterprises founder Ted Lerner subsequently became part-owners in MASN after their purchase of the Washington Nationals in July 2006. The same month that the Lerners acquired minority interest in MASN, the network, which originally broadcast only during Orioles and Nationals games, converted into a 24-hour channel with an expanded roster of collegiate sports events and local and national programming. It has become a strong competitor to the area's dominant regional sports network, Comcast SportsNet Mid-Atlantic, now known as NBC Sports Washington.\n\nAs a whole, the Mid-Atlantic Sports Network televises more than 600 professional and NCAA Division I collegiate events annually.\n\nThe network carries live telecasts of all Orioles and Nationals games that are not televised by a national broadcast or cable network, and produces the pre-game and post-game shows \"Nats Xtra\" and \"O's Xtra\", which bookend the game telecasts. As with all Major League Baseball broadcasts, MASN-produced games are available for streaming out of the teams' respective territories at mlb.tv, with local viewers able to watch highlights for a certain amount of time following the conclusion of each game.\n\nBecause the Orioles and Nationals play many games at or around the same time of day, MASN operates a second network, MASN2, which serves as an overflow channel when there are scheduling conflicts. Every cable and satellite provider that receives MASN receives MASN2 as well. , MASN scheduled each baseball team to play the same number of games on each network. According to MASN's website, the schedule for which team will play on which network on a given day is set before the season begins.\n\nThrough the 2017 season, MASN also produced over-the-air television broadcasts of Nationals and Orioles games for television stations in their respective primary markets – producing Nationals games seen on CBS affiliate WUSA-TV (channel 9) in Washington and Orioles games seen on CBS owned-and-operated station WJZ-TV (channel 13) in Baltimore. Those games were shown on MASN in all of the network's territory, including the Baltimore and Washington markets.\n\nFrom 2008 through 2013, MASN used five broadcasters to provide simultaneous coverage of the annual Beltway Series between the Orioles and the Nationals, using the network's on-air staffs in an unconventional \"mixed-booth\" arrangement whenever the Orioles and Nationals played one another. Each team was represented by a color analyst and two sideline reporters for their respective telecasts, with play-by-play announcers each broadcasting for half of the game. The games were simulcast on both MASN channels (MASN and MASN2). Beginning in 2014, MASN dropped the mixed-booth format and returned to maintaining separate broadcast streams for each team during the Beltway Series, with the broadcast teams for each team again segregated as in conventional broadcasts, the home team′s feed carried on MASN, and the visiting team′s feed on MASN2.\n\nThe network televises 275 collegiate sporting events each year from NCAA Division I teams in football, basketball and lacrosse. MASN serves as the regional cable television home of Georgetown Hoyas and George Mason Patriots basketball games, as well as Big East and Big South basketball and football, and Colonial Athletic Association basketball games, the annual BB&T Classic and coaches shows for regional NCAA teams.\n\nIt also serves as an independent regional sports network, carrying a sizeable amount of college sports programming distributed by various syndicators including college basketball games from the Atlantic-10 Conference, America East Conference, Big 12 Conference, Mid-Atlantic Athletic Conference, Northeast Conference and Southern Conference; college football games from the American Athletic Conference, Ivy League and the Sunbelt Conference; and games from the American Athletic Conference, Big South Conference, Conference USA, Mid-American Conference, Patriot League and Western Athletic Conference in both sports.\n\nMASN served as an affiliate for the American Sports Network, a provider of syndicated sporting events primarily focused on college sports, until it became Stadium in 2017.\n\nIn addition to nationally distributed college sports events, MASN carries other national programming from Fox Sports Networks including golf and outdoor programs, horse racing, poker, and NASCAR events. In 2010, MASN relaunched \"The John Riggins Show\", a daily sports talk show hosted by the Washington Redskins hall of famer, who was previously with the network from 2006 to 2008. In addition to an afternoon drive program, Riggins hosted \"Riggo's Postgame Xtra\", which aired after each Redskins game.\n\nFrom 2006–2009, MASN served as the official regional cable broadcaster of the NFL's Baltimore Ravens, televising the team's preseason games, as well as nightly airings of team-related programming (including \"Ravens Xtra\", \"1 Winning Drive\", \"The John Harbaugh Show\", \"Ravens Report\", \"Game Plan\" and \"Purple Passion\") and original live post-game shows during the regular season.\n\nThe network also has a companion channel, MASN2, that airs overflow games in order to accommodate both baseball teams' schedules. In September 2013, MASN2 became an affiliate of Fox Sports Networks, although selected FSN-produced ACC games air on CSN Mid-Atlantic instead, and ESPNews still airs during overnight hours\n\nMASNHD is a high definition simulcast feed of MASN, which broadcasts in the 1080i resolution format. MASN announced that it would launch a full-time HD feed on September 16, 2008, and televise 200 Major League Baseball games in HD in 2009. Since 2010, MASN and MASN2 have televised every Orioles and Nationals game not aired on national television in high definition. In 2012, all sports telecasts on the network began to be letterboxed on the network's standard definition feed via the #10 Active Format Description tag format, with graphics framed for widescreen displays rather than the safe area; games produced by MASN on WDCW and WJZ-TV utilize 4:3-optimized graphics to accommodate standard definition viewers.\n\nAfter the Orioles agreed to share their television territory with the Nationals, another controversy arose with television rights. Comcast Sports Net Mid-Atlantic, the Orioles' cable partner since 1984, dating back to its days as Home Team Sports (which until 2000, was formerly co-owned with WJZ-TV under Group W and later CBS) maintained a ten-year cable television contract to broadcast Orioles games through the 2006 season. When MASN announced plans to move Orioles broadcasts to MASN, CSN Mid-Atlantic (by then, a wholly owned subsidiary of Comcast) sued the Orioles seeking enforcement of a clause in its contract with the team, which Comcast SportsNet claimed allowed them the exclusive right of first and last refusal on future television contracts. MASN and the Orioles, however, claimed that MASN is a trade name for TCR Sports Broadcasting Holding, which was established in 1996 to sell all of the Orioles television rights, which resulted in the sale of the ten-year deal to HTS. Because of this, the Orioles and MASN claimed to be simply bringing their rights in-house.\n\nOn July 27, 2005, after argument by Baltimore attorney Arnold M. Weiner, Montgomery County Circuit Judge Durke G. Thompson threw out Comcast's lawsuit, ruling that the clause in Comcast's contract with the Orioles had not been triggered. Comcast filed an amended complaint and on October 5, Judge Thompson threw out Comcast's second effort.\n\nUp to that point, Comcast was the only major cable carrier that refused to carry MASN. However, as Comcast is the dominant cable provider in most of the Nationals and Orioles territory—including Baltimore and Washington themselves—this left most Nationals fans unable to see games without satellite. Additionally, Adelphia Communications – then in the middle of bankruptcy proceedings and therefore unable to reach new carriage deals – was in the process of being sold to Comcast and Time Warner Cable on a piecemeal basis. On August 4, 2006, following a settlement, it was announced that Comcast would carry MASN starting that September. Comcast was forced to drop its lawsuit under the terms of the deal. This cleared the way for the Orioles to move their games to MASN for the 2007 season.\n\nIn August 2008, MASN made a carriage complaint to the Federal Communications Commission after negotiations with Comcast did not result in a new contractual agreement. On December 23, 2009, Comcast and MASN finally settled their dispute over these systems, with the cable provider announcing plans to carry the network on systems that were not carrying it already \"as early as 2010\". The FCC complaint was dismissed that same day. On March 23, 2010, MASN announced that Comcast would begin carrying the network on its central Pennsylvania systems on March 31.\n\nTime Warner Cable, North Carolina's largest cable provider, never carried MASN on a basic cable tier on its North Carolina systems. This has resulted in the network airing a series of radio advertisements in the area asking TWC customers to ask the cable provider to add the network. On January 21, 2008, an FCC arbitrator ordered TWC to add MASN on its North Carolina systems, citing an argument that the provider was not carrying MASN in an effort to protect its own regional sports network Time Warner Cable Sports. Time Warner Cable appealed the decision to the FCC. On October 30, 2008, the FCC's Media Bureau denied the motions filed by Time Warner Cable in its appeal, and ordered TWC to put MASN on the analog tier of its North Carolina systems within 30 days.\n\nTWC filed another appeal for that decision, this time to the full commission. On January 16, 2009, the item was placed \"on circulation\" and remained there for almost two years. On December 20, 2010, the FCC voted 4-1 to grant Time Warner Cable's petition for review and reversed the Media Bureau's order. In the Memorandum Opinion and Order, it was revealed that in addition to offering carriage to MASN on a digital basic tier, TWC had \"inquired into MASN's willingness to agree to carriage of MASN on an analog tier only in its Eastern North Carolina systems\". This information seemed to expose TWC's apparent willingness to carry MASN on an analog tier on its systems in the Triangle and Wilmington areas, where the Nationals and Orioles are the only \"local\" teams designated by Major League Baseball. In the remaining home markets that are shared with the Atlanta Braves and Cincinnati Reds—including Charlotte and the Piedmont Triad—MASN would be carried on a digital basic tier, which is the same level of service where some Braves' games are carried.\n\nHowever, MASN insists on analog coverage in all areas. As a result, Time Warner Cable refused to carry the network in North Carolina. MASN's North Carolina footprint is limited to a few small cable systems scattered across the state, mostly in areas that are part of the Hampton Roads market. This situation has yet to change with TWC's acquisition by Charter Communications. However, Charter shut down Spectrum Sports, successor to Time Warner Cable Sports, in June 2017.\n\nAll games involving the Orioles and Nationals are blacked out in most of North Carolina from many other outlets including MLB Network, TBS, MLB Extra Innings and MLB.tv.\n\nFibrant (now Hotwire), a municipal fiber \"Internet service provider\" that served Salisbury, North Carolina, carried MASN at one time, but by 2015 had removed MASN because MASN wanted to charge so much that Fibrant would have had to subscription raise its rates in order to keep MASN.\n\nMajor League Baseball and Angelos struck the deal to create MASN only days before the beginning of the 2005 season, before the completion of arrangements for Washington-area cable television providers to carry MASN′s two channels (MASN and MASN2). As a result of this, many Washington, D.C.-area fans initially did not receive the new network via their cable television providers and were unable to watch most Nationals games for some time during the Nationals′ first season, leading to frustration with the network among Nationals fans.\n\nSome Nationals fans contend that the majority ownership stake that Angelos and the Orioles hold in MASN leads the network to exhibit a bias in covering the Orioles compared to the Nationals, such as displaying the scores of Beltway Series games as \"Orioles vs. Washington\" – which critics see as sending a subtle message that the Orioles represent the entire Baltimore-Washington area, while the Nationals represent only Washington – as opposed to a more neutral \"Orioles vs. Nationals\" or \"Baltimore vs. Washington.\"\n\nWhen the amount MASN pays annually to the Nationals to broadcast Nationals games first came up for renegotiation in 2012, the Nationals asked for MASN to increase its annual payment to $118 million per year for the 2012 through 2016 seasons, while the Orioles countered with an offer averaging $39.5 million per year, arguing that the Nationals′ request was well above fair market value and in any case unaffordable for MASN, and it began paying the Nationals that amount in 2012 pending agreement between MASN and the Nationals on a fee. When MASN and the Nationals could not agree on an annual amount, the Orioles and Nationals submitted the matter to Major League Baseball′s Revenue-Sharing Definitions Committee for arbitration. The committee issued a written decision on June 30, 2014, that MASN should pay the Nationals an average of $59 million per year for 2012 through 2016. Claiming the decision was biased against the Orioles, MASN pursued litigation on behalf of the Orioles and itself to have the committee′s decision vacated. With the matter tied up in the courts, the entire 2012-2016 period went by without a resolution of the matter, and the teams missed the next required renegotiation for the seasons from 2017 through 2021. The Nationals seek payment from MASN of over $100 million in fees each for the 2012-2016 and 2017-2021 periods, The Nationals and some of their fans contend that the delay in MASN increasing the rights fees it pays Nationals has had a negative impact on the Nationals′ revenues and their ability to sign expensive free agents.\n\nThe \"Washington Post\" reported that the animosity between the teams over this dispute may have played a role in the Orioles postponing two of a three-game home series against the Chicago White Sox, playing the third game without allowing fans to attend, and moving a subsequent series with the Rays to Tampa Bay due to security concerns during the civil unrest in Baltimore following the death of Freddie Gray in April 2015. The Nationals were in the middle of a long road trip at the time, so Nationals Park would have been available as a nearby venue on short notice. Baseball commissioner Rob Manfred had suggested that possibility earlier in the week.\n\nAn Orioles spokesman would not comment on whether the teams' dispute affected the team's rescheduling decisions, but another source with the team told the \"Post\" that it had. The Nationals said that neither the Orioles nor MLB had approached them about making their stadium available. However, they never made the offer themselves.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860732", "title": "Williams &amp; Wilkins Co. v. United States", "text": "Williams &amp; Wilkins Co. v. United States\n\nWilliams & Wilkins Co. v. United States, 487 F.2d 1345 (Ct. Cl. 1973), was an important intellectual property decision by the federal Court of Claims, later affirmed by a per curiam opinion from an evenly divided United States Supreme Court, with only eight justices voting (Harry Blackmun took no part in the decision of this case). The decision held that it was a fair use for libraries to photocopy articles for use by patrons engaged in scientific research.\n\nThis decision, written by Judge Oscar Davis, has been cited as part of the trend in which the courts will take a cautious approach to intellectual property issues raised by the advent of new technology. Rather than enforce the rights of the author articles by placing a prohibition on such copying, the Court in this case held that this was not prohibited by the law as written, leaving it to the United States Congress to address the issue through legislation.\n\nIn particular, according to David L. Lange (\"No Law\"), the case was a turning point for the doctrine of fair use: while for many decades the standards applied by courts to enforce copyright (or not) had been \"arcana\", the 1976 Copyright Act codified some fundamental criteria.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860742", "title": "RAF Signals Command", "text": "RAF Signals Command\n\nSignals Command was the British Royal Air Force's command responsible for control of signals units from 1958 to 1969. It was based at RAF Medmenham near Marlow, Buckinghamshire.\n\nThe Command was formed on 3 November 1958 by raising No. 90 Group to Command status. It was a relatively short-lived Command, lasting only until 1 January 1969, when it was absorbed by Strike Command by being reduced to group status. It had five Air Officers Commanding during its existence.\n\nIn 2006, various elements of the RAF Signals trades and sections were combined at RAF Leeming to form No. 90 Signals Unit with the same badge and motto as No. 90 (Signals) Group and Signals Command.\n\n\n\n\n|-\n \n"}
{"id": "1860747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860747", "title": "Tony Mann", "text": "Tony Mann\n\nTony or Anthony Mann may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1860748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860748", "title": "Paul Soter", "text": "Paul Soter\n\nPaul Soter (born August 16, 1969) is an American actor, writer, and director, and one of the members of the Broken Lizard comedy group. As a child, he lived in Sacramento, Anchorage, Phoenix, and Denver. He graduated from Colgate University and was a member of the Beta Theta Pi fraternity. During his time there, he was a member of the Charred Goosebeak troupe along with the members of Broken Lizard.\n"}
{"id": "1860750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860750", "title": "Mary Creagh", "text": "Mary Creagh\n\nMary Helen Creagh (born 2 December 1967) is a British Labour Party politician who represented Wakefield as a Member of Parliament (MP) from 2005 until 2019.\n\nCreagh was raised in Coventry and studied at Pembroke College, Oxford and London School of Economics. After interning in Brussels, she served on Islington London Borough Council. She was first elected as MP for the West Yorkshire seat of Wakefield in the 2005 general election. \n\nIn 2010, Creagh was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs before becoming Shadow Secretary of State for Transport in 2013. In November 2014, she was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for International Development.\n\nOn 14 May 2015, Creagh announced she would run for Leader of the Labour Party in the leadership election resulting from Ed Miliband's resignation, although she later withdrew her candidacy. She resigned from the frontbench following the election as Labour leader of Jeremy Corbyn.\n\nOf Irish descent, Creagh was born in Coventry, where her father was a car factory worker and her mother a primary school teacher. She was educated at the Bishop Ullathorne Comprehensive School in Coventry and read Modern Languages at Pembroke College, Oxford, graduating as MA (Oxon). After pursuing European Studies at the London School of Economics (PhD), she worked in Brussels for four years, first as an intern at the European Parliament and then for the European Youth Forum. She lectured in entrepreneurship at the Cranfield School of Management and served for seven years as a Trustee of Rathbone, a national charity.\n\nCreagh was elected as a Councillor for the London Borough of Islington in 1998, representing Highbury West ward (renamed Highbury in 2002), and served as the Labour Group Leader for five years during a period when the party was in opposition locally. During this time, she knocked on doors and ran a campaign office for future party leader Jeremy Corbyn. She stood down from Islington Council in 2005 upon her election to parliament.\n\nIn 2002, Creagh formally alleged cronyism in the appointment of the Islington Council chief executive by five Liberal Democrat councillors thus triggering an investigation by the Standards Board for England. After the longest ever investigation by the Standards Board, her complaint was rejected. Creagh was criticised by the tribunal as being \"heavily influenced by her political motives\" and that she was an \"insensitive witness, lacking in balanced judgment and one who was prepared to make assumptions about honesty and integrity of others without any proper basis\". However, Creagh defended herself saying she \"blew the whistle because I believed the Liberal Democrats were not meeting the standards we expect from people in public office. I invite people to look at my evidence and draw their own conclusions\". The Liberal Democrat councillors involved lost their seats at the 2006 elections when their party lost control of the council.\n\nCreagh succeeded the retiring David Hinchliffe as MP for Wakefield. She won the seat in 2005 with a majority of 5,154. She made her maiden speech in parliament on 25 May 2005 using the occasion to raise issues of poverty in her constituency. She also mentioned locally-born sculptor Barbara Hepworth. Shortly after entering the House of Commons, she became a member of the Human Rights Select Committee, leaving the committee in 2007. She is a member of the Labour Friends of Israel.\n\nCreagh successfully introduced a Children's Food Bill in 2005 which sought to introduce minimum nutritional standards for all school meals and take fizzy drinks and sugary snacks out of school vending machines. Both of these measures were accepted by the government and became law under the Education and Inspections Act 2006.\n\nIn 2006, Creagh was made parliamentary private secretary (PPS) to Andy Burnham, Secretary of State for Culture, Media and Sport. In the 2007 Labour Party leadership election, she backed Gordon Brown. From 2007 to 2009, she was Chair of the Labour Movement for Europe succeeding Chris Bryant and being succeeded by Richard Corbett. In June 2009, she left her role as PPS to Burnham when she was appointed as an assistant government whip in the Department for Health.\n\nCreagh launched a campaign in 2006 aimed at preventing scalding injuries in the home. She brought together medical experts, campaign groups and victims of scalding injuries to lobby the government to change the building regulations to prevent people being severely scalded by hot water. The coalition pressured the government to make the fitting of a water temperature regulating device, such as a thermostatic mixing valve (TMV), compulsory in new bathrooms in England. In 2009, after a three-year \"Hot Water Burns Like Fire\" campaign, the Labour government confirmed TMVs were to be a standard fitment in all new bathrooms from April 2010.\n\nIn 2009, as Vice Chair of the All-Party Parliamentary Group for the Prevention of Genocide and Other Crimes Against Humanity, Creagh called on Justice Secretary Jack Straw to tighten British Law so people accused of genocide could be prosecuted in the UK. She said there was an \"impunity gap\" which allowed people accused of terrible crimes in places like Rwanda and Bosnia to escape justice and live freely in Britain. As a result of this, the government agreed to amend the Coroner's and Justice Bill to tighten the law so anyone suspected of war crimes anywhere throughout the world since 1991 and resident in the UK could be prosecuted in UK courts.\n\nIn the 2010 general election, Creagh held her Wakefield seat – altered by boundary changes – with a majority of 1,613 votes. She backed David Miliband in the 2010 Labour Party leadership election.\n\nOn 8 October 2010, Creagh was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs. In February 2011 she secured a House of Commons debate on the government's plans to sell off 85% of public forestry. The government subsequently abandoned these plans, it having become clear that the public \"were not happy with the proposals\". In 2011, Creagh criticised the decision by the Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs to cut flood defence spending in real terms by 32%. In addition to her involvement in campaigns calling for the banning of wild animals performing in circuses, she has opposed the government's policy of badger culling, claiming it was \"anti-science\" and that the option of vaccination should be explored. At the Labour Party's Annual Conference in September 2011, Creagh launched the campaign \"Back the Apple\". with Unite the Union. The campaign opposes the government's plan to abolish the Agricultural Wages Board which sets wages and conditions for thousands of agricultural workers.\n\nIn 2013, Creagh was appointed Shadow Secretary of State for Transport. On 24 March 2014 she and Jamie Hanley opposed the train fares price increases in New Pudsey proposed by Patrick McLoughlin. The opposition spread throughout 18 West Yorkshire stations, forcing McLoughlin to scrap the plan. The same day she took part in the minibus opening ceremony which was hosted by Colchester Community Volunteer Service and two days later accused the government of donating their time into privatising East Coast Main Line instead of worrying about high fare prices.\n\nIn November 2014, Creagh became Shadow Secretary of State for International Development in Ed Miliband's final reshuffle prior to the 2015 general election.\n\nOn 14 May 2015, Creagh announced her candidacy for Leader of the Labour Party after Ed Miliband's resignation following Labour's general election defeat. On 12 June, Creagh announced that she was withdrawing from the leadership contest. At the time of her announcement, she had secured about 10 nominations from Labour MPs, fewer than any of the other remaining candidates and well short of the 35 required to take part in the final ballot. After the election of Jeremy Corbyn as Labour leader in September 2015, Creagh resigned from the frontbench.\n\nOn the 1 December 2015 edition of BBC programme \"Newsnight\", Creagh argued in favour of military action in Syria, stating: \"ISIL pose a clear threat to Britain\", \"it makes no sense to turn our planes back at the Syrian border\" and \"we must act to keep our country safe\".\n\nIn February 2016, Creagh became chair of the Environmental Audit Committee. During the 2016 EU referendum, she supported the UK remaining in the European Union, a move that was seen at odds with her constituency which voted in favour of Brexit. She supported Owen Smith in the failed attempt to replace Jeremy Corbyn in the 2016 Labour Party leadership election.\n\nCreagh voted against the triggering of Article 50 in February 2017. She went on to state blue passports were \"not worth £50 billion and crashing the economy\" and the UK leaving the EU would be bad for the planet, and \"more than the harm\" done by Donald Trump. In 2017, a constituent was jailed for harassment after sending Creagh far right influenced material. Creagh's security later was stepped up after property damage and a \"credible threat\" in relation to her opposition to Brexit. \n\nDuring the 2017 general election, Creagh was reported as writing to constituents to say that her team had been “speaking to people in your street” who had told them they had “more confidence in Theresa May as Prime Minister than Jeremy Corbyn,” predicted a large Tory majority and called for a vote for them as individuals while promising to “work for a Labour Party that can once again regain your confidence.” The letter was similar to ones sent by Joan Ryan and Gavin Shuker.\nIn November 2018, Creagh expressed sympathy for Labour MP Angela Smith after Smith's Constituency Labour Party passed a vote of no confidence in her. In February 2019, Creagh was invited to join breakaway Labour MPs when they formed The Independent Group, later Change UK, but declined.\n\nIn June 2019, Creagh called on the Labour Party to express \"full-throated support\" for a second EU referendum. She was later defeated at the 2019 general election by the Conservative candidate Imran Ahmad Khan. In an interview with Channel 4 News, Ahmad Khan attributed his success during the election to \"Islington Remainers\" who had branded Leave voters \"stupid, uneducated, racist or wrong\".\n\nCreagh is working as a visiting professor at Cranfield University and has performed speeches for the OECD in Paris and Chatham House in Tokyo. She also volunteers at her local foodbank.\n\nCreagh married Adrian Pulham in 2001. They have a son and a daughter. She is a keen cyclist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860753", "title": "Erik Stolhanske", "text": "Erik Stolhanske\n\nErik Stolhanske (born August 23, 1968) is an American actor, writer, and producer, and one of the members of the Broken Lizard comedy group. He graduated from Breck School, then Colgate University. At Colgate he was part of the troupe Charred Goosebeak, which included the others of Broken Lizard.\n\nHe is a member of Beta Theta Pi at Colgate University. \n\nHe was born without a fibula, and has had a prosthetic leg his entire life. He has since upgraded to a metal prosthetic, as shown in the Broken Lizard stand-up special, where the other members of the comedy troupe hit his leg with various items, including a metal baseball bat and a hammer. \nSince his movie career started picking up with \"Super Troopers\", he has done talks at various venues about his life growing up without a leg, and how he overcame said adversity. \nHe was captain of his baseball team in grade school. He was also featured in the original P90X workout series' plyometrics segment.\n\nHe has also appeared on the P90X workout series.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860756", "title": "Conservative Party (Romania, 1880–1918)", "text": "Conservative Party (Romania, 1880–1918)\n\nThe Conservative Party () was between 1880 and 1918 one of Romania's two most important parties, the other one being the Liberal Party. The party was the party of government for a total of 14 years, more than a third of its existence.\n\nIt was founded on 3 February 1880 in Bucharest, although the doctrines and various groups of conservatives had already existed for some time. Precursors to the party had included the political grouping \"Juna Dreaptă\" (November 1868), and the newspaper \"Timpul\" (founded March 1876).\n\nThe party relied on the support of the great landowners, the bourgeoisie as well as some intellectuals. Their economic policy was to encourage light industry and crafts, but they did not oppose investments in heavy industry.\n\nThe 1907 Romanian Peasants' Revolt showed that some reforms needed to be made in the Romanian social and political scene. That is why in 1913 the Conservatives accepted some reforms, such as the universal suffrage promoted by the Liberals. In 1917, under pressure from the Liberals, rather than oppose modifications to the Constitution, the Conservatives did not accept the changes and tried to adapt. However, after the union of Romania with Transylvania, they never played an important role in the politics of Romania.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the party underwent several schisms. In January 1908, Take Ionescu left to found the Conservative Democratic Party (\"Partidul Conservator-Democrat\", PCD). In May 1915, Nicolae Filipescu led a group out of the party that favored joining World War I on the \"Entente\" side; in October 1916, the Filipescu and Ionescu groups fused as the Conservative Nationalist Party (\"Partidul Conservator Naţionalist\").\n\nIn 1918–19 the party split into the \"Partidul Conservator-Democrat\" (which, in 1922, fused with the National Party) and the short-lived \"Partidul Conservator-Progresist\".\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860760", "title": "United States Court of Federal Claims", "text": "United States Court of Federal Claims\n\nThe United States Court of Federal Claims (in case citations, Fed. Cl. or C.F.C.) is a United States federal court that hears monetary claims against the U.S. government. It is the direct successor to the United States Court of Claims, which was founded in 1855, and is therefore a revised version of one of the oldest federal courts in the country.\n\nThe courthouse of the Court of Federal Claims is situated in the Howard T. Markey National Courts Building (on Madison Place across from the White House) in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe court traces its origins directly back to 1855, when Congress established the United States Court of Claims to provide for the determination of private claims against the United States government. The legislation was signed into law on February 24, 1855, by President Franklin Pierce. Throughout its 160-year history, although it has undergone notable changes in name, size, scope of jurisdiction, and procedures, its purpose has remained the same: in this court the federal government stands as the defendant and may be sued by citizens seeking monetary redress. For this reason, the court has been referred to as the \"keeper of the nation's conscience\" and \"the People's Court.\"\n\nAs originally in 1855, the court lacked the essential judicial power to render final judgments. This oversight was resolved by legislation passed in 1866, in response to President Abraham Lincoln's insistence in his Annual Message to Congress in 1861 that, \"It is as much the duty of Government to render prompt justice against itself, in favor of citizens, as it is to administer the same, between private individuals.\"\n\nIn 1887, Congress passed the Tucker Act, which significantly expanded the court's jurisdiction to include all claims against the government except tort, equitable, and admiralty claims. The court thus today has nationwide jurisdiction over most suits for monetary claims against the government and sits, without a jury, to determine issues of law and fact. The general jurisdiction of the court, described in 28 U.S.C. § 1491, is over claims for just compensation for the taking of private property, refund of federal taxes, military and civilian pay and allowances, and damages for breaches of contracts with the government. The court also possesses jurisdiction over claims for patent and copyright infringement against the United States, as well as over certain suits by Indian tribes.\n\nAdditionally, the court has jurisdiction to hear both pre-award and post-award bid protest suits by unsuccessful bidders on government contracts.\n\nA unique aspect of the court's jurisdiction throughout its history has been the authority to act on congressional references of legislative proposals for compensation of individual claims. As eventually codified in 28 U.S.C. § 1492, either House of Congress may refer a bill to the Chief Judge of the court for an investigation and a report to Congress. A judge of the court is assigned to act as the hearing officer and preside over the judicial proceedings. Then a three-judge review panel submits a report to Congress for its consideration and disposition of such claims for compensation.\n\nBefitting its unique role, the court has been located throughout its history in Washington, D.C., in the vicinity of the White House or in the U.S. Capitol Building. It first met in May 1855 at Willard's Hotel. In July of that year, it moved into the Capitol. After briefly using the Supreme Court's chamber in the basement of the Capitol, it then acquired its own rooms there. In 1879, the court obtained space on the ground floor of the Freedman's Bank Building, which stood at the place now occupied by the Treasury Annex, adjacent to the southeast corner of Lafayette Park. Two decades later, in 1899, the court moved to the building formerly occupied by William Corcoran's art collection across Lafayette Park at the intersection of 17th Street and Pennsylvania Avenue.\n\nIt remained there for 65 years. This building was designed by, and is presently named for, the architect James Renwick, who also designed the Smithsonian Institution's Castle on the National Mall and St. Patrick's Cathedral in New York City. When the facilities there were deemed inadequate by the mid- 1950s, the court asked Congress for a new location. Eventually, the site at 717 Madison Place, NW, was chosen and the court moved to its present home on August 1, 1967.\n\nThe court's original composition of three judges was expanded to five in 1863. They would consider evidence proffered by claimants and weigh testimony taken by permanent or special commissioners employed by the court, who were dispersed across the United States. One of the first commissioners was Benjamin Harrison of Indiana, who would later become President. If oral argument was requested, the five judges would hear the case en banc. Appeal to the Supreme Court was by right if the amount in dispute was over $3,000. The growth in government caused by and coinciding with World War I made the system unworkable, as the number of filed cases increased considerably. In 1925, legislation enacted by Congress at the request of the court created a separate trial division of seven commissioners and elevated the five judges to an appellate role. Initially, the trial commissioners would function as special masters in chancery and conduct formal proceedings either at the court's home in Washington, D.C., or elsewhere in the United States in a court facility amenable to the parties. The trial procedures evolved to resemble a non-jury civil trial in district court.\n\nIn 1948, the commissioners were authorized to make recommendations for conclusions of law. The number of commissioners was increased in 1953 to 15. In 1966, Congress provided that there would be seven appellate judges to be appointed by the President with life tenure. In 1973, the title of the commissioners was changed to trial judge and by 1977, the Court of Claims had 16 trial judges who conducted trials of cases in the first instance. Judgments, which are required to be paid out of appropriations by Congress, were originally paid by individual appropriations passed separately or as part of other appropriations bills. In 1955, Congress provided for a standing appropriation for judgments of $100,000 or less. Finally, in 1977, Congress created a permanent, indefinite appropriation for all judgments awarded by the court.\n\nThe Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1982 created the modern court. While the appellate division of the Court of Claims was combined with the United States Court of Customs and Patent Appeals to comprise the new United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, the trial division of the Court of Claims became the United States Claims Court (and in 1992, the name was changed to the United States Court of Federal Claims). Appeals from the Court of Federal Claims are taken to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit and a judgment there is conclusive unless reviewed by the Supreme Court on writ of certiorari. Decisions of the Court of Claims are binding precedent on both its appellate and trial court successors.\n\nThe court, as now constituted, consists of 16 judges, appointed by the President and subject to confirmation by the U.S. Senate for terms of 15 years. In addition, judges who have completed their statutory terms of office are authorized to continue to take cases as senior judges of the court. This ongoing tenure serves as a mechanism to ensure judicial impartiality and independence.\n\nIn recent years, the court's docket has been increasingly characterized by complex, high-dollar demands, and high-profile cases in such areas as, for example, the savings and loan crisis of the 1980s, the World War II internment of Japanese-Americans, and the federal repository of civilian spent nuclear fuel.\n\nNevertheless, despite the nature of the claim, the notability of the claimant, or the amount in dispute, the Court of Federal Claims acts as a clearing house when the government must settle with those it has legally wronged. As observed by former Chief Judge Loren A. Smith, the court is the institutional scale that weighs the government's actions against the standard measure of the law and helps make concrete the spirit of the First Amendment's guarantee of the right \"to petition the Government for redress of grievances.\"\n\nThe National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 gave the court the authority to create an Office of Special Masters to receive and hear certain vaccine injury cases, and the jurisdiction to review those cases. This vaccine injury jurisdiction has been enlarged in recent years to encompass claims stemming from a number of additional vaccines, including, for example, varicella, hepatitis B, and influenza.\n\nThough a provision of the Administrative Dispute Resolution Act of 1996 gave the Court of Federal Claims and U.S. districts courts concurrent jurisdiction over post-award protests, subsequent legislation provided that, as of January 2001, that the United States Court of Federal Claims would be the exclusive judicial forum for post-award bid protest litigation.\n\nIn 2006, the court rendered judgments in more than 900 cases and awarded $1.8 billion in damages.\n\nThe court has special jurisdiction, spelled out in : it hears claims for monetary damages that arise from the United States Constitution, federal statutes, executive regulations, or an express or implied in fact contract with the United States Government, most notably under the Tucker Act. The court is established pursuant to Congress's authority under Article One of the United States Constitution. The court has concurrent jurisdiction with U.S. district courts, when the claim is for less than $10,000, by the provisions of . Claims have a statute of limitations of six years from the time the claim first accrues. This limitation is strictly construed by the court.\n\nThe court has concurrent jurisdiction involving contracts with the federal government, where a contractor has the option of choosing between filing suit with the court or with the agency Board of Contract Appeals. The general rule is that a contractor may either 1) file suit within 90 days with the agency Board of Contract Appeals or 2) file suit within one year with the court. A contractor, however, must choose which forum in which to file; a contractor cannot file suit with both the agency Board and with the court. (However, in a case where a contractor has filed with the Board, and the Government challenges the timeliness of the filing — the 90-day limit is statutory and cannot be extended — the contractor can file with the court within the one-year period to protect its claims).\n\nUnlike district courts, which generally only have jurisdiction over disputes in their geographic district, the CFC has jurisdiction over disputes wherever they occur in the country. To accommodate litigants, judges on the court may hold trials at local courthouses near where the disputes arise.\n\nAll trials at the court are bench trials, without juries. Because the court only hears cases against the Government, the United States is always the defendant in cases before the CFC.\n\nThe court receives a variety of claims against the government, including breach of contract claims, illegal exaction claims, takings claims under the 5th Amendment, claims involving military pay, claims for patent and copyright infringement against the government, federal tax refund claims, and protests regarding contract bidding procedures. According to the Court, tax refund suits make up a quarter of the claims brought before it, although the court exercises concurrent jurisdiction with United States district courts in this area.\n\nOrders and judgments from the court are appealed to the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which resides in the same building as the CFC.\n\nThis court does not have jurisdiction in claims arising under the Federal Tort Claims Act, which are heard in the appropriate venue United States district court, 28 USC § 1346(b)(1), nor judicial review of the decisions of the Board of Veterans' Appeals. Certain procedural differences accrue due to the different jurisdiction, e.g., under the FTCA, the statute of limitations runs two years from the date of the tortious occurrence, or six months from the final denial of administrative relief. See:Exhaustion of remedies.\n\nThe court also may hear congressional reference cases, which are cases referred to the court by either house of Congress. The judge serving as hearing officer renders a report as to the case's merits, which is reviewed by a panel of judges formed for that purpose. The report is forwarded back to the chamber of Congress requesting it.\n\nUnlike judges of courts established under Article Three of the United States Constitution, judges on the Court of Federal Claims do not have life tenure (see Article I and Article III tribunals). Instead, they serve for 15-year terms and are eligible for reappointment. The President appoints the judges of the U.S. Court of Federal Claims with the Senate's advice and consent. The judges are removable by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit for \"incompetency, misconduct, neglect of duty, engaging in the practice of law, or physical or mental disability.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1860766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860766", "title": "RAF Support Command", "text": "RAF Support Command\n\nSupport Command was a command of the Royal Air Force.\n\nIt was formed on 31 August 1973 by the renaming of RAF Maintenance Command, with No. 90 (Signals) Group being added to it. Its responsibilities included all logistical and maintenance support requirements of the RAF. Among its first stations assigned may have been RAF Gan, transferred from Far East Air Force. It was renamed as RAF Support Command, and its role further increased, on 13 June 1977 when it absorbed Training Command, making it additionally responsible for all RAF ground and aircrew training.\n\nIn the 1980s the bunker at RAF Holmpton was converted to form a new Emergency War Headquarters for RAF Support Command.\n\nIn 1994 the Command was split up, with many of its functions merging with those of the RAF Personnel Management Centre to form RAF Personnel and Training Command, and others being hived off into RAF Logistics Command.\n\nThe following officers have held the appointment of Air Officer Commanding-in-Chief RAF Support Command:\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1860771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860771", "title": "Ray's Pizza", "text": "Ray's Pizza\n\nRay's Pizza, and its many variations such as \"Ray's Original Pizza\", \"Famous Ray's Pizza\" and \"World-Famous Original Ray's Pizza\", are the names of dozens of pizzerias in the New York City area that are generally completely independent (a few have multiple locations) but may have similar menus, signs, and logos.\n\nRalph Cuomo opened the first Ray's Pizza, at 27 Prince Street in Little Italy, in 1959, named after his nickname \"Raffie\". In the 1960s he briefly owned a second Ray's Pizza, but sold it to Rosolino Mangano in 1964. Mangano kept the name and later claimed that his was the first. In 1973, Mario Di Rienzo named his new pizzeria Ray's Pizza (which is now closed) after, he claimed, the nickname for his family in Italy. Also that year, Joseph Bari purchased a pizzeria from Mangano and renamed it, and several others, as Ray Bari Pizza. By 1991, dozens of pizzerias in New York City had \"Ray's\" in their name, as well as those in other American states.\n\nIn 1981, Gary Esposito purchased a pizzeria from Mangano. After opening several more \"Original Ray's\" restaurants, he partnered with Cuomo and Mangano to combine independent \"Ray's\" restaurants into an official franchise chain. there were at least 49 restaurants by some variant of that name in the New York City telephone directory, including one named Not Ray's Pizza. The confusion was the basis of a joke on the \"Seinfeld\" episode \"The Maid\" when Jerry asks whether Kramer is calling from outside Ray's Pizza, Famous Ray's, Original Ray's, or Famous Original Ray's. In the 2003 film \"Elf\", Santa Claus tells Buddy the Elf, \"Second, there are, like, 30 Ray's Pizzas. They all claim to be the original, but the real one's on 11th.\"\n\nThe first Ray's Pizza closed its doors on Sunday, October 30, 2011, following a legal dispute over rent and a lease that followed its owner's death in 2008. Half of the space that once housed Ray's Pizza has been leased to a new company, Prince Street Pizza. Meanwhile, Famous Ray's Pizza on Sixth Avenue and 11th Street (pictured), which had served pizza since the 1970s, closed down in 2011, reopened under the name \"Famous Roio's Pizza\" in 2012, and closed again in 2013. A Chinese restaurant now occupies the space.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860775", "title": "Jerrold Electronics", "text": "Jerrold Electronics\n\nJerrold Electronics was an American provider of cable television equipment, including subscriber converter boxes, distribution network equipment (amplifiers, multitap outlets), and headend equipment in the United States.\n\nThe company was founded by future Pennsylvania governor Milton Jerrold Shapp (the company name was derived from his middle name) in 1950. The company was one of the earliest pioneers of community antenna television systems (cable television). The company headquarters was located at 401 Walnut Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nShapp sold the company to General Instrument in 1967. However, the Jerrold brand name continued to be used on equipment into the 1990s.\n\nIn the late 1990s, the Jerrold name went out of use, and General Instrument merged with Motorola becoming the Motorola Connected Home Solutions division. Motorola Connected Home Solutions was acquired by Arris in 2012. The equipment was popular with many cable pirates by then and by 2005, most cable companies have discontinued use of Jerrold equipment in favor of digital cable.\n\n\nThere are a number of sources available covering the history of Jerrold and the cable industry as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860792", "title": "George Van Haltren", "text": "George Van Haltren\n\nGeorge Edward Martin Van Haltren (March 30, 1866 – October 1, 1945) was an American center fielder and pitcher in Major League Baseball. In his 17-year career, lasting from 1887 through 1903, he played for the Chicago White Stockings, Brooklyn Ward's Wonders, Baltimore Orioles, Pittsburgh Pirates, and New York Giants. He also served as player-manager of the Orioles in 1892. Van Haltren recorded 2,544 career hits and a batting average of .316.\n\nVan Haltren was born in St. Louis, Missouri, in 1866. In 1868, his family moved to Oakland, California. Van Haltren played baseball as a child and became a pitcher. His play attracted the attention of the major leagues, and in 1887, he signed with the Chicago White Stockings.\n\nVan Haltren made his major league debut in June 1887. He was a pitcher and outfielder that season and had a win–loss record of 11–7 and a batting average of .203. The following year, he went 13–13 and batted .283. As a full-time left fielder in 1889, Van Haltren batted .322 with 126 runs scored and 81 runs batted in. He then signed with the Brooklyn Ward's Wonders of the Players' League and pitched and played right field for them. He went 15–10 and batted .335. After the 1890 season, Van Haltren joined the American Association's Baltimore Orioles. He played at shortstop and fielded poorly, but he batted .318. In 1892, Van Haltren became the player-manager of the National League's Baltimore club. He managed the team to a 1–10 record before being replaced. Late in the season, he was sent to Pittsburgh in exchange for Joe Kelley and $2,000. He batted .293 that year. In 1893, he batted .338 and scored 129 runs in 124 games.\n\nIn November 1893, Van Haltren was sold to the New York Giants for $2,500. He became the Giants' center fielder and batted .331 with 109 runs scored and a career-high 105 runs batted in. He also helped the team win the 1894 Temple Cup. Van Haltren then batted over .300 every year from 1895 to 1901. During that time, he led the NL in triples once, stolen bases once, and outfield assists three times. According to Bill James, he had the best outfield throwing arm of the 1890s. In May 1902, Van Haltren broke his ankle, and the injury ended his season. He hit .257 the following year and was released by the Giants. In his 17-year major league career, he batted .316 with 2,544 hits, 1,642 runs scored, and 583 stolen bases.\n\nVan Haltren returned to Oakland. In 1904, he became the center fielder and manager of the Pacific Coast League's Seattle Siwashes. He batted .270 in 933 at bats. The following season, Van Haltren became the center fielder and manager of the Oakland Oaks. He stayed with the Oaks through the middle of the 1909 season.\n\nVan Haltren later was a scout for the Pirates for five years, after which he went to work in Oakland area construction as a latheman. He owned and managed several rental properties in and around Oakland.\n\nIn 1889, Van Haltren married Blanche O'Brien. They had two daughters, Mary Elizabeth (born in 1890) and Dorothy (born in 1895). Van Haltren died in Oakland in 1945.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860794", "title": "Cory Stillman", "text": "Cory Stillman\n\nCory Stillman (born December 20, 1973) is a Canadian professional ice hockey executive and former player. He played in the National Hockey League (NHL) for several teams between 1994 and 2011, winning the Stanley Cup twice. He is currently head coach of the Sudbury Wolves.\n\nStillman grew up in Peterborough, Ontario playing hockey for the Minor Petes (OMHA) program. He also played competitive baseball. In 1989–90, Strellman played for the Peterborough Roadrunners Jr.B. (MTJHL) hockey club before being a 2nd round choice (27th overall) of the Windsor Spitfires in the 1990 Ontario Hockey League Priority Selection.\n\nStillman started his professional career in 1992, when he was drafted sixth overall in the first round by the Calgary Flames. Stillman was tried on both wings, and was quoted saying he liked the left side better but he can play right wing easily if needed. He would play one more season in the OHL with Peterborough, scoring 25 goals and 55 assists in 61 games in 1992-'93, upon which he joined the Flames organization with the Saint John Flames of the American Hockey League. Stillman excelled at this level, posting an 83-point campaign (35 goals, 48 assists) across 79 games in the 1993-'94. With the NHL in a lockout at the beginning of the 1994-'95 season, Stillman remained in the AHL to begin the following season, and in his second season at this level, his performance level improved more, with 28 goals and 53 assists across 63 games.\n\nUpon the end of the lockout, the 1994-'95 NHL season began in earnest in January; the Flames played their first game on January 20th and, in time for their ninth game of the season on February 6, Stillman made his NHL debut. This game would turn out be a 5-4 home defeat against the Winnipeg Jets, and Stillman recorded his first NHL point on a 3rd period assist on what was, at the time, the go-ahead goal before the Flames faltered late. He would notch another assist in his second career game, but failed to find the scoresheet in his next eight games, at which point he was re-assigned to St. John in the AHL. Back at this level, the AHL Flames qualified for the postseason despite a lackluster 27-40-13 record, the #4 seed from the AHL's Atlantic Division, and were quickly dispatched in the first round by the #1 seeded Prince Edward Island Senators. Saint John's 1-0 defeat in Game 5 on April 21 would represent Stillman 's final career game at the AHL level.\n\nStillman became a regular in the Flames lineup beginning in 1995-'96, though it would take a couple seasons for him to begin meeting expectations offensively that he had established in his minor league performances. After scoring only 22 goals and 61 points across his first two seasons, Stillman reached a new level during the 1997-'98 season in Calgary, scoring 27 goals. He would match that feat again the following season, and those 27 goals would come to represent his single-season career high. Alas for Stillman , his rounding into form coincided with a downturn in fortune for the Flames. Calgary, who had qualified for the playoffs every season except one between 1976 through until 1996, would not qualify for the playoffs for the rest of his time in the organization. He only played two playoff games for the Flames in 1996, when a declining Flames team qualified as the #7 seed and were swept in the first round by the Blackhawks.\n\nHampered by injury, Stillman only played 37 games in 1999-2000 and recorded 21 points. He bounced back during 2000-'01 with 21 goals across 66 games before he was traded to the St. Louis Blues in an effort to bolster the Blues' roster ahead of the postseason. The Blues finished the regular season with 103 points and were the #4 seed in the Western Conference, and made it to the Western Conference Finals, avenging an upset in the first round against the San Jose Sharks from the previous season as well as sweeping the Pacific Division champion Dallas Stars in the second round before losing four games to one to the eventual Cup winners in the Colorado Avalanche. For his part, Stillman chipped in three goals and five assists across 15 games, including an assist on the tying goal and then scoring the game-winning goal in overtime of Game 3 against Dallas. \n\nStillman would score 23 goals the following season and another 24 in the 2002-'03 season, as the Blues would make the playoffs in both seasons but failed to make deep runs as they were defeated in the second round in 2002 by the Detroit Red Wings, who also went on to win the Cup that season, and then lost in the first round in the 2003 postseason to the Vancouver Canucks in seven games, surrendering a 3-1 lead in the series along the way. Stillman only recorded two goals across 15 playoff games across those two postseasons, totaling five goals and nine assists in 30 playoff games he played with the Blues overall, an average of roughly half a point per game and below the standards he had established from his regular season performances. A pending free agent at the end of the 2003-'04 season, he was traded during the off-season to the Tampa Bay Lightning for a draft pick that eventually turned out to be long-time Blues stalwart, and later captain, David Backes.\n\nThe Tampa Bay Lightning, who had been an also-ran for most of their franchise history dating back to 1992, had an unexpectedly successful season in 2002-'03, going 36-25-16-5 for a 93-point season and winning their first division championship along the way. They were defeated in the second round by the New Jersey Devils and with one of their top forwards, Vaclav Prospal, slated to hit free agency, the Lightning acquired Stillman from St. Louis for a second round pick. During the regular season, Stillman lived up to expectations and then some, as he would score 25 goals and record 80 points, a career-high, across 81 games, giving the Lightning some much needed scoring depth alongside standout forwards Martin St. Louis, Vincent Lecavalier, and Brad Richards. After their division championship of the previous season, the Lightning would exceed these levels in 2003-'04, repeating as Southeast Division champions and finishing as the #1 seed in the Eastern Conference with 106 points. The Lightning would win 25 of their final 36 regular season games, with Stillman scoring 11 goals and 46 points coinciding with this spurt.\n\nFor Stillman, he and his team would take divergent paths during the postseason. After a superb regular season, he was quiet during the postseason, scoring only two goals and five assists across 21 playoff games and only finding the scoresheet once in his last eight games. Ultimately, the Lightning were able to overcome Stillman's power outage as they would win the Stanley Cup in seven games against the team that originally drafted him, the Calgary Flames, overcoming a 3-2 deficit by winning the final two games of the series. To date, it remains the only Stanley Cup the Lightning have won in their franchise history.\n\nDuring the 2004 NHL Entry Draft, the Lightning re-acquired Prospal and did not re-sign Stillman, who hit free agency on July 1, 2004. With the 2004-05 NHL lockout, it would be 16 months before Stillman, or any NHL player, would play another game in the NHL.\n\nDuring the free agent signing period following the end of the 2004–2005 NHL lockout, Stillman agreed to a three-year contract with the Carolina Hurricanes August 2, 2005. There, his team also won the Stanley Cup. He became the first player since Claude Lemieux to win consecutive Cups with different teams, being the eleventh overall and most recent to do so.\n\nStillman waived his no-trade clause February 11, 2008, so that the Hurricanes could trade him along with Mike Commodore to the Ottawa Senators for Patrick Eaves and Joe Corvo.\n\nOn July 1, 2008, Stillman signed a 3-year deal worth $10.6-million with the Florida Panthers.\n\nOn February 17, 2011, Cory Stillman played his 1000th NHL Game against the Philadelphia Flyers at BankAtlantic Center in Sunrise, Florida.\n\nThe Florida Panthers traded Stillman back to the Carolina Hurricanes February 24, 2011, for Ryan Carter and a fifth round pick in the 2011 NHL Entry Draft.\n\nStillman announced his retirement after 16 seasons in the NHL on September 8, 2011. He initially joined the Florida Panthers staff as a development coach in the proceeding 2011-12 season before returning to the Hurricanes the following year as the Director of Player Development and Director of Forwards Development.\n\nStillman remained in his role with the Hurricanes from 2012 until May 25, 2017, when the Sudbury Wolves of the Ontario Hockey League announced the hiring of Stillman as their new head coach.\n\nStillman is married to the former Mara Stefanski. The Stillmans have three children, Riley, Madison and Chase, who currently plays for the Sudbury Wolves, his fathers current team. His father-in-law is former AHL player Bud Stefanski. Stefanski was general manager and coach of the Mississauga St. Michael's Majors of the OHL from 2003-2007. His son, Riley, was drafted from the OHL Oshawa Generals to the Florida Panthers in the 2016 NHL Draft as the 114th overall pick.\n"}
{"id": "1860808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860808", "title": "Modern Railways", "text": "Modern Railways\n\nModern Railways is a British monthly magazine covering the rail transport industry which was published by Ian Allan until March 2012, and Key Publishing since then. It has been published since 1962.\n\nIt has always been targeted at both railway professionals and serious amateurs, an aim which derives from its origins as an amalgamation of the enthusiast magazine \"Trains Illustrated\" and the industry journal \"The Locomotive\" in the hands of its first editor Geoffrey Freeman Allen.\n\nIt is currently edited by Philip Sherratt after the retirement of James Abbott. Regular contributors include Roger Ford, Ian Walmsley, Alan Williams and Tony Miles. The large section regularly written by Roger Ford is called ‘Informed Sources’. That by Ian Walmsley is called ‘Pan Up’.\n\nThe first edition of \"Trains Illustrated\" was published at the beginning of 1946. Due to post-war paper shortages issues 1 to 8 appeared at varied intervals in 1946 and 1947. From issue 9 (April 1948) it was published quarterly, from issue 14 (August-September 1949) it became bi-monthly, and from issue 17 (February 1950) it became a monthly publication. The final issue under that title was volume XIV, no.159 (December 1961), after which the sequence continued under the \"Modern Railways\" title. \n\nEarly issues were edited by Ian Allan and O.J.Morris, with Cecil J Allen taking over from issue 5 and G. Freeman Allen from issue 20; he remained editor until December 1961.\n\nThe first edition of \"Modern Railways\" was published in January 1962 as Volume XV, no. 160 in a sequence continuing from \"Trains Illustrated\". It featured a preface letter from Dr Richard Beeching, then Chairman of the British Transport Commission, who wrote: \n\nA feature article in the edition analysed peak traffic operations at Reading railway station in the days leading up to Christmas 1960, stating:\n\n\n"}
