{"id": "1853254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853254", "title": "La Turista", "text": "La Turista\n\nLa Turista is a play by the American playwright Sam Shepard, first performed at American Place Theatre, New York City in 1967, directed by Jacques Levy.The title refers to the most common illness among tourists. The two main characters are Salem and Kent, which are also the names of brands of cigarettes. It is a two-act dramatic play. The first act takes place in Mexico, and the second in the United States. Some see this play as a reference to the Vietnam war.\n\n\"La Turista\" was first performed at the American Place Theatre in New York City, on March 4, 1967. The cast was as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853257", "title": "Susanne Riess", "text": "Susanne Riess\n\nSusanne Riess (born 3 January 1961) is a former Austrian politician of the Freedom Party of Austria (FPÖ).\n\nIn the first government headed by Chancellor Wolfgang Schüssel, which was inaugurated in 2000, she became Vice Chancellor and minister of public services and sports, representing her party in the coalition with Schüssel's Austrian People's Party (ÖVP). The Freedom Party had finished second in the 1999 election, so its leader, Jörg Haider, should have become Chancellor in any coalition with the ÖVP which finished third. However, Haider yielded to Schüssel in order to appease international opinion. Although this should have put him in line to become Vice-Chancellor, he realised he was too controversial to have any role in the government. He thus resigned as party leader in favour of Riess-Passer, who had been FPÖ managing chairwoman since 1996.\n\nIn the course of the formation of the government in 2000, she became chairwoman and leader of the FPÖ. She was known for being loyal to Haider, which earned her the nickname \"Königskobra\" (King Cobra).\n\nAfter severe disagreements with her former political mentor Haider in Summer 2002 (the so-called Knittelfeld Putsch), she resigned from all of her posts, as did finance minister Karl-Heinz Grasser and the party spokesman in parliament, Peter Westenthaler. After the 2002 elections, she remained Vice Chancellor on a provisional basis until the coalition between ÖVP and FPÖ was renewed in early 2003, and has since had no involvement in politics.\n\nSince 2004, Riess-Passer has been the CEO of the Wüstenrot-Gruppe.\n"}
{"id": "1853258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853258", "title": "Sea View Railroad (Rhode Island)", "text": "Sea View Railroad (Rhode Island)\n\nThe Seaview Railroad was an interurban streetcar line running south from East Greenwich to Narragansett, Wakefield, and Peace Dale.\n\nIt opened in 1899 and stopped running in 1922. Private right-of-way began after crossing south into North Kingstown from East Greenwich.\n"}
{"id": "1853272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853272", "title": "World Book Capital", "text": "World Book Capital\n\nThe success of World Book and Copyright Day, launched in 1996, encouraged UNESCO to develop the concept of World Book Capital City, selecting Madrid as the Capital for 2001. This was again a success, and so UNESCO's General Conference resolved to make the designation of a World Book Capital City an annual event.\n\nUNESCO invited the International Publishers Association, the International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions and the International Booksellers Federation to participate in the nomination process, to ensure the three major branches of the book industry can participate in the decision.\n\nThe nomination does not include any financial prize; it rather acknowledges the best programmes dedicated to books and reading.\n\nThe nominating committee welcomes programmes—presented by or endorsed by the mayor of the city making the application—that promote and foster reading. The programmes are to run from one World Book and Copyright Day and the next. The nomination committee will turn its attention to certain criteria:\n\nThe following cities have been designated as World Book Capitals:\n"}
{"id": "1853274", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853274", "title": "Kyōsuke Kindaichi", "text": "Kyōsuke Kindaichi\n\nKindaichi was also active as a poet and had good contacts with Ishikawa Takuboku. He is also the author of the dictionary \"Meikai Kokugo Jiten\".\n\nA fictionalised Kindaichi appears in the anime \"Woodpecker Detective's Office.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1853276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853276", "title": "Bad Day (viral video)", "text": "Bad Day (viral video)\n\nBad Day (also known as Badday, ) is a 27-second viral video where a frustrated office worker assaults his cubicle computer. It has circulated virally online since 1997. The video became a cultural embodiment of computer rage, and is the subject of several parodies and ad campaigns.\n\nIn the surveillance-style video, a male office worker in his cubicle is becoming increasingly irritated with the computer. He slaps the monitor in frustration, punches the keyboard before using it like a baseball bat to knock the monitor off of the desk. His neighbor peers over the partition twice in curiosity. The video ends with the protagonist kicking the monitor out of his cubicle.\n\n\nThe video clip was staged and produced by Durango, Colorado-based Loronix Information Systems to demonstrate the benefits of their digital video surveillance system for release on a promotional CD. The video is an example of a potential use for the surveillance system. The video's subject is Vinny Licciardi, the company's shipping manager. Licciardi appeared in a series of promotional videos extolling the benefits of Loronix's special brand of digital video recording systems. Loronix was the first company to develop a digital video surveillance system to replace video tape recorders. , Loronix is a subsidiary of Verint Systems.\n\nBad Day has circulated online since at least 1997. It made its largest impression via email, where its reasonable size made distribution easy. The origin was revealed in 1998 originally by CNN and later in print by Security Distribution Magazine. The company first heard of the video's popularity in June 1998. Its popularity within the company created internal computer issues. The video is also frequently used in \"Angry German Kid\" parodies, with the office worker in the video often being portrayed as Leopold's dad.\n\nAccording to user interaction expert Frank Thissen, though fictional, it provides an example of how user expectations from longstanding social conventions can be frustrated through poor programming. In the Bad Day scenario, \"The expectations of the user are obviously badly neglected\", and the computer's lack of reaction or poor reaction is understood in the context of a human social situation, such as someone walking away in the middle of a conversation. \"Wired\"s Michelle Delio called the protagonist \"the patron saint of computer bashers\".\n\nFollow-ups to the video were featured on TechTV promos, where the same man is videotaped throwing the computer down a flight of stairs, and later running it over with his car. A 2005 spoof was produced by GoViral for the network security firm NetOp, showing a computer fighting back.\n"}
{"id": "1853277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853277", "title": "Dav Whatmore", "text": "Dav Whatmore\n\nDavenell Frederick \"Dav\" Whatmore (born 16 March 1954) is an Australian cricket coach and former cricketer.\n\nA right-handed batsman, Whatmore played seven Test matches for Australia in 1979, and one One Day International in 1980. At first-class level, he scored over 6,000 runs for Victoria.\n\nSince the 1990s, Whatmore has coached the Sri Lanka, Bangladesh and Pakistan cricket teams. In December 2014, he was appointed coach of the Zimbabwe team. With poor performances in 2016 ICC World Twenty20, Zimbabwe Cricket Board sacked Whatmore from coaching.\n\nWhatmore was born in Colombo, Dominion of Ceylon (now known as Sri Lanka) and was educated at Royal College, Colombo. He and his family migrated to Australia in 1962. Thereafter he lived in Mentone, a suburb of Melbourne and studied at Mentone Grammar School.\n\nWhatmore made his first class debut in 1975–76 touring South Africa with a Derek Robins XI. He debuted for Victoria at the end of that summer and in the next season became an important part of the Victorian team, being appointed vice captain under Graham Yallop.\n\nWhatmore's first century came against South Australia which he followed with one against New South Wales.\n\nWhatmore started the 1978–79 domestic season slowly, but eventually found form and became one of the most successful batsman that season. He also had to captain Victoria when Yallop was absent due to test duty, and played a vital role in the state winning the Sheffield Shield that summer.\n\nA century against Queensland late in the season saw him selected in the Australian team to play Pakistan, replacing Peter Toohey.\n\nWhatmore impressed in his first test, top scoring in Australia's first innings with 43. He had to open in the second innings when Graeme Wood was unfit but only scored 15.\n\nWhatmore was picked in the Australian squad for the 1979 World Cup.\n\nHe was also selected in the side that toured India in 1979. Whatmore's main challenger for a position in the side appears to have been Graeme Wood. Illness to Rick Darling saw both selected – Whatmore scored 20 and 8.\n\nWhatmore was dropped for the second test but 60 in a tour game saw him back in the team for the third test. Whatmore made 14 and 33, the latter Australia's top score in the second innings.\n\nWhatmore's best test batting came in the fourth test, with scores of 77 and 54; the latter knock was especially crucial as it helped Australia escape with a draw.\n\n\"He hits the ball cleanly and effortlessly and he's a natural shot maker\", said captain Kim Hughes. \"He's got the makings of a really top player.\"\n\nHowever, in the fifth test Whatmore made 4 and 4 and in the 6th 6 and 0.\nWhen Whatmore returned to Australian the World Series Cricket players had been readmitted to first class cricket and Whatmore lost his test place. However, he remained in good form for Victoria, and helped them win another Sheffield Shield. He played one ODI for Australia in the 1979–80 summer, was 12th man for another and was selected in the initial 18 man squad to go to Pakistan in early 1980. (He did not end up going).\n\nWhatmore suffered a dip in form in 1980–81 and 81–82 seasons and was dropped from the Sheffield Shield Squad at one stage. However he bounced back and enjoyed his best ever season in 1987–88, making 912 runs at an average of 50.\n\nWhatmore retired from professional cricket in 1988/89 to pursue a career in coaching. He coached Sri Lanka in two separate spells, during the first of which he won the 1996 Cricket World Cup. In between those spells, he coached Lancashire where he won the National League in 1998 and 1999, and the NatWest Trophy in 1998.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2007, he had been coaching Bangladesh. Under his coaching, Bangladesh enjoyed relative success, coming from a side that could rarely win matches at all, to a team that can occasionally surprise even the most powerful cricketing nations . Whatmore coached them to their first Test match victory early in 2005. Bangladesh shocked the cricket world later that year with a victory over then top ranked Australia and then South Africa when they were top ranked during the 2007 World Cup, where they also defeated India to reach the Super 8 stage. Whatmore announced his resignation from the Bangladeshi team after the conclusion of their matches at the 2007 World Cup. He stayed on until the conclusion of their home series against India on 29 May.\n\nAfter announcing his intentions to not renew his contract, Whatmore was not linked with the job of national cricket coaches of India in any way the same goes for England and Pakistan. But England named Peter Moores as their new coach while India appointed Ravi Shastri as the temporary national coach. Since Shastri declared that he was not interested in the job long-term, Whatmore was considered as a strong contender for the role of coach. During India's 2007 tour of Bangladesh, talks took place between him and BCCI officials, and although it seemed he was the favourite to get the job, on 4 June 2007, BCCI treasurer N Srinivasan, a member of the Search Committee announced that Graham Ford and John Emburey had been invited for talks, hinting that Dav Whatmore was not under consideration anymore. He was then appointed as the Director of the National Cricket Academy in 2007 and later took charge of the India under-19 team, which would go on to win the 2008 Under-19 Cricket World Cup in Malaysia with Virat Kohli leading the team.\n\nWhatmore was one of the three men interviewed by the Pakistan Cricket Board for the coaching job of the national team, but Geoff Lawson was preferred for the job after former Sri Lankan captain Arjuna Ranatunga suggested to the PCB that they not choose Whatmore for the job. Whatmore had problems with Ranatunga in the past while he was the coach of the Sri Lankan national team and both of them used to speak against each other quite frequently in the media.\n\nWhatmore was the coach of the Kolkata Knight Riders team from 2010 to 2011. In 2010, they finished 5th and were again eliminated in group stage. In 2011, they entered knockout stage as they were 4th in group stage, but lost to Mumbai Indians in the Eliminator. On 1 January 2012 he stepped down as the coach of the Kolkata Knight Riders.\n\nOn 4 March 2012, Pakistan Cricket Board appointed Whatmore as head coach of Pakistan (replacing interim coach Mohsin Khan) for a two-year signed contract. His first assignment was a successful one as Pakistan lifted the Asia Cup after beating Bangladesh in the Final. He left the coaching position when his contract ended in 2014. He was replaced by Moin Khan.\n\nOn 30 December 2014, Whatmore was appointed as head coach by the Zimbabwe Cricket Board. He was sacked on 31 May 2016 with 9 months remaining on his contract.\n\nDav Whatmore has been appointed as head coach by Kerala Cricket Association for 2017–18 season. During 2017–18 Ranji Trophy, Kerala's men's cricket team reached the quarter-final of Ranji Trophy for the first time. In 2018-19 Ranji Trophy, they moved a step ahead and for first time played in semi-finals. Dav Whatmore was credited for creating a long-standing impact on Kerala cricket.\n\nIn February 2020, he was appointed as head coach of Singapore national cricket team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853279", "title": "Christina Sawaya", "text": "Christina Sawaya\n\nChristina Sawaya () (born 16 August 1980), is a Lebanese beauty queen. As part of her modelling career, Christina entered a series of pageants between 1998 and 2002 in which she became the winner of \"Miss University\" Lebanon in 1998, and was chosen as \"Top Lebanon Modeling 1999\".\n\nIn 2001, Sawaya competed with 19 women to become Miss Lebanon 2001, where she also became eligible to enter in the Miss Universe, Miss World and Miss International pageants. She represented her country in the 2001 Miss World pageant, wherein she was unplaced. But at the Miss Universe 2002 Pageant, Sawaya decided to drop out of the competition after stating that she would not compete in a pageant with Miss Israel, Yamit Har-Noy. She went on to win the Miss International 2002 beauty pageant in Tokyo on September 30, 2002. Sawaya was chosen as Miss International among beauties from 51 countries.\n\nShe also became the first Miss International of Middle Eastern descent. In the same year, Miss World 2002 was Azra Akın from Turkey and the original winner of Miss Earth 2002 was Džejla Glavović from Bosnia and Herzegovina, which are all dominant Muslim countries. Christina Sawaya is a conservative Catholic Christian that comes from Lebanon, the only Arab country where the president is Christian by the constitution.\n\nOn 15 November 2003, Sawaya married Tony Baroud in Beirut. Baroud is a former member of the Lebanese national basketball team and now a sports commentator and TV entertainer with the Lebanese Broadcasting Corporation. Tony also hosted the 2007 Miss Lebanon pageant.\n\nThe couple divorced in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853296", "title": "Battle of the Scheldt", "text": "Battle of the Scheldt\n\nThe Battle of the Scheldt in World War II was a series of military operations led by the First Canadian Army, with Canadian, Polish and British units attached, to open up the shipping route to Antwerp so that its port could be used to supply the Allies in north-west Europe. Under acting command of the First Canadian's Lieutenant-General Guy Simonds, the battle took place in northern Belgium and southwestern Netherlands from October 2 to November 8, 1944.\n\nThe well-established Wehrmacht defenders staged an effective delaying action, during which the Germans flooded land areas in the Scheldt estuary, slowing the Allied advance. After five weeks of difficult fighting, the Canadian First Army, at a cost of 12,873 Allied casualties (half of them Canadian), was successful in clearing the Scheldt after numerous amphibious assaults, obstacle crossings, and costly assaults over open ground.\n\nOnce the German defenders were no longer a threat, it was a further three weeksNovember 29, 1944before the first convoy carrying Allied supplies was able to unload in Antwerp due to the necessity of de-mining the harbours.\n\nFollowing the Allied breakout after success in the battle of Normandy, they began a series of rapid advances deeper into France, away from their initial avenues of supply along the west coast of France.\n\nLack of a sufficiently robust supply line – including enough port capacity – was the main factor holding back further Allied advance. Brest, when finally taken, was too wrecked to use, and other ports were held as fortresses by the Germans. The Allies needed the large port of Antwerp and had counted on it.\n\nThe first plans for liberating Europe by the Anglo-American armies, code-named \"Roundup\", had been drawn up in December 1941. They had stressed that the port of Antwerp would be crucial for an invasion of Germany, as it was the largest deep-water port close to Germany that the Allies could hope to capture intact. Antwerp is a deep water inland port connected to the North Sea via the river Scheldt. The Scheldt was wide enough and dredged deep enough to allow the passage of ocean-going ships, and was close to Germany. \n\nThe \"Witte Brigade\" (White Brigade) of the Belgian resistance seized the port of Antwerp before the Germans could blow the port as they were planning. On September 4, Antwerp was taken by the 11th Armoured Division with its harbour 90% intact. However, the Germans had heavily fortified Walcheren island at the mouth of the Western Scheldt, establishing well dug-in artillery impervious to air attack and controlling access to the river. This made it impossible for Allied minesweepers to clear the heavily mined river. Adolf Hitler ordered the 15th German Army, which had been stationed in the Pas de Calais region and was now marching north into the Low Countries, to hold the mouth of the river Scheldt, depriving the Allies of the use of the Antwerp port. Montgomery became aware of this on September 5, thanks to Ultra intelligence. Hitler had personally designated the island \"Fortress Walcheren\", which he ordered to be defended to the last man. Walcheren island was held by mixture of Kriegsmarine and Wehrmacht, with its garrison consisting of the 202nd Naval Coastal Artillery Battalion, the 810th Naval Anti-Aircraft Battalion, the 89th Fortress Regiment and the 70th Infantry Division commanded by General Wilhelm Daser.\n\nOn September 5, SHAEF's naval commander, Admiral Sir Bertram Ramsay advised Montgomery to make taking the mouth of the Scheldt his main priority, stating that as long as the mouth of the Scheldt was in German hands, it was impossible for the Royal Navy minesweepers to clear the numerous mines in the river, rendering the port of Antwerp useless. Among the Allied senior leaders, only Ramsay saw opening Antwerp as crucial to sustaining the advance into Germany. On 6 September 1944, Montgomery told Canadian General Harry Crerar that \"I want Boulogne badly\" and that city should be taken at once with no regard to losses. By this point, ports like Cherbourg, which the Americans had taken in June, were too far away from the front line, causing the Allies great logistical problems.\n\nFrom September on, Admiral Ramsay was deeply involved in planning the assault on \"Fortress Walcheren\". He appointed Captain Pugsley of the Royal Navy, who landed the 7th Brigade of the 3rd Canadian Division on D-Day, to the First Canadian Army headquarters to start preparations. Had Montgomery secured the Scheldt estuary in early September 1944 as Admiral Ramsay had strongly advised him to do, Antwerp would have been opened to Allied shipping far earlier than it was, and the escape of the German 15th Army from France would have been stopped. As a part of Operation Fortitude, the deception plan for Operation Overlord, the Allies had tricked the Germans into believing they would land in the Pas-de-Calais region of France instead of in Normandy, and as such, the Wehrmacht had reinforced the 15th Army in the Pas-de-Calais.\n\nOn 9 September, Montgomery wrote to Field Marshal Sir Alan Brooke of the Imperial General Staff that \"one good Pas de Calais port\" would be able to meet the logistical needs of the 21st Army Group only. Montgomery further noted that \"one good Pas de Calais port\" would be insufficient for the American armies in France, which thus forced Eisenhower, if for no other reasons than logistics, to favour Montgomery's plans for an invasion of northern Germany by the 21st Army Group, whereas if Antwerp were opened up, all of the Allied armies could be supplied. Montgomery had his eye on taking Berlin before either the Americans or the Soviets took the capital of the \"Reich\". Montgomery ordered that the First Canadian Army take Calais, Boulogne and Dunkirk and clear the Scheldt, a task that General Crerar stated was impossible because he did not have sufficient troops to perform both operations at once. Montgomery refused Crerar's request to have British XII Corps under General Neil Ritchie assigned to help clear the Scheldt because he needed XII Corps for Operation Market Garden.\nThe importance of taking ports closer to Germany was highlighted with the liberation of the city of Le Havre, which was assigned to General John Crocker's I Corps. To take Le Havre, the British assigned two infantry divisions, two tank brigades, most of the artillery of the Second British Army, the specialized armoured \"gadgets\" of General Percy Hobart's 79th Armoured Division, the battleship HMS \"Warspite\" and the monitor HMS \"Erebus\". On 10 September 1944, Operation Astonia began when RAF Bomber Command dropped 4,719 tons of bombs on Le Havre, which was then assaulted by Crocker's men, who took the city two days later. The Canadian historian Terry Copp wrote that the commitment of this much firepower and men to take only one French city might \"seem excessive\", but by this point, the Allies desperately needed ports closer to the front line to sustain their advance.\n\nLittle was done about the blocked port of Antwerp during September because Montgomery chose to make the ill-fated Operation Market Garden his key priority, rather than clearing the Scheldt. With Market Garden, Montgomery intended to by-pass the West Wall and break into the north German plain in order to take Berlin, but the British defeat at the Battle of Arnhem, which proved to be the proverbial \"bridge too far\", left the British forming an exposed salient reaching deep into the Netherlands. In the meantime, German forces in the Scheldt estuary were able to deploy defensively and prepare for the expected advance. The first attacks occurred on September 13. After an attempt by the 4th Canadian Armoured Division to storm the Leopold Canal on its own had ended in bloody repulse, General Guy Simonds, commanding the II Canadian Corps, ordered a halt to operations in the Scheldt until the French channel ports had been taken, reporting the Scheldt would need more than one division to clear. The halt allowed the German 15th Army ample time to dig in to its new home by the banks of the Scheldt.\n\nOn the German side, holding the Scheldt was regarded as crucial. Hitler ordered planning for what became the Ardennes Offensive in September 1944, the objective of which was retaking Antwerp. The 15th Army, which was holding the Scheldt on the far right on the German line, was deprived of supplies as the Wehrmacht focused on building up its strength for the planned Ardennes offensive in December, while a number of newly raised \"Volksgrenadier\" divisions were sent to replace the divisions lost in Normandy and in Operation Bagration on the Eastern Front. However, the flat polder ground of the Dutch countryside favoured the defensive, and was felt to compensate for the 15th Army's reduced numbers. It was assigned only two of the \"Volksgrenadier\" divisions. Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt told General Gustav-Adolf von Zangen: \"Enemy supplies, and therefore, his ability to fight, is limited by the stubborn defense of the Harbour, as intelligence report prove. The attempt of the enemy to occupy the Western Scheldt in order to obtain the free use of the harbour of Antwerp must be resisted \"to the utmost\"\" (emphasis in the original). In his orders to his men, Von Zangen declared:\n\nIn early October, after Operation Market Garden, Allied forces led by the Canadian First Army finally set out to open the port of Antwerp to the Allies by giving it access to the sea. As the Arnhem salient was his major concern, Montgomery pulled away from the First Canadian Army (which was under the temporary command of Simonds as Crerar was ill), the British 51st Highland Division, 1st Polish Division, British 49th (West Riding) Division and 2nd Canadian Armoured Brigade, and sent all of these formations to help the 2nd British Army hold the Arnhem salient. Simonds saw the Scheldt campaign as a test of his ability, a challenge to be overcome, and he felt he could clear the Scheldt with only three divisions of the 2nd Corps despite having to take on the entire 15th Army, which held strongly fortified positions in a landscape that favoured the defence. Simonds not once registered complaints about his lack of manpower, the fact that ammunition was being rationed as supplying the Arnhem salient was Montgomery's chief concern, and the lack of air support, which was made worse by the cloudy October weather.\n\nOn September 12 and 13, 1944, the Canadian First Army, under temporary command of Lieutenant-General Guy Simonds, was given the task of clearing the Scheldt once it had completed the clearing of the Channel ports, particularly Boulogne, Calais and Dunkirk. Montgomery then decided that the importance of Antwerp was such that the capture of Dunkirk could be delayed. Under his command at that time were Canadian II Corps, with the Polish 1st Armoured Division, 49th and 52nd Divisions attached, and the British I Corps. Montgomery promised the support of RAF Bomber Command in attacking the German fortifications and that of the USAAF 8th Air Force \"[o]n the day concerned\". The 51st (Highland) Infantry Division was to give up its transport to enable the movement of forces into battle positions. Abandoning the capture of Dunkirk freed the 2nd Canadian Infantry Division.\nThe plan for opening the Scheldt estuary involved four main operations, conducted over daunting geography:\n\nOn September 21, the 4th Canadian (Armoured) Division moved north roughly along the line of the Ghent–Terneuzen Canal, given the task of clearing an area on the south shore of the Scheldt around the Dutch town of Breskens, called the \"Breskens Pocket\". The Polish 1st Armoured Division headed for the Dutch-Belgian border further east and the crucial area north of Antwerp.\n\nThe Canadian 4th Armoured Division advanced from a hard-won bridgehead over the Ghent-Brugge Canal at Moerbrugge to find themselves the first Allied troops facing the formidable obstacle of the double line of the Leopold and Schipdonk Canals. An attack was mounted in the vicinity of Moerkerke, crossing the canals and establishing a bridgehead before counter-attacks forced a withdrawal with heavy casualties.\n\nThe 1st Polish Armoured Division enjoyed greater success to the east as it advanced northeast from Ghent. In country unsuitable for armour, and against stiffening resistance, the division advanced to the coast by September 20, occupying Terneuzen and clearing the south bank of the Scheldt east toward Antwerp.\n\nIt became apparent to Simonds that any further gains in the Scheldt would come at heavy cost, as the Breskens Pocket, extending from Zeebrugge to the Braakman Inlet and inland to the Leopold Canal, was strongly held by the enemy.\n\nOn October 2, the Canadian 2nd Division began its advance north from Antwerp. Stiff fighting ensued on October 6 at Woensdrecht, the objective of the first phase. The Germans, reinforced by Battle Group Chill, saw the priority in holding there, controlling direct access to South Beveland and Walcheren island.\nThere were heavy casualties as the Canadians attacked over open, flooded land. Canadian historians Terry Copp and Robert Vogel wrote: \"the very name Woensdrecht sends shivers down the spines of veterans of the 2nd Canadian Infantry Division\". Driving rain, booby traps and land mines made advance very difficult. Attacking on 7 October in heavy mist, the Calgary Highlanders came under heavy fire from German positions. As described in its war diary, \"the battle thickened...the Germans forces...hit back with a pugnacity which had not been encountered in the enemy for a long time\". The Régiment de Maisoneuve was halted 1,000 yards from their target while the next day, The Black Watch of Canada was stopped in its attempt. On October 9, the Germans counter-attacked and pushed the Canadians back. The war diary of the 85th Infantry Division reported that they were \"making very slow progress\" in face of tenacious Canadian resistance.\n\nBack at SHAEF headquarters, Admiral Ramsay, who was more concerned about the problems facing the Canadians than their own generals, complained to Supreme Allied Commander General Dwight Eisenhower that the Canadians were having to ration ammunition as Montgomery made holding the Arnhem salient his main priority. After Ramsay raised the issue with Eisenhower, the latter informed Montgomery on October 9 about \"the supreme importance of Antwerp. It is reported to me this morning by the Navy that the Canadian Army will not repeat not be able to attack until November 1 unless immediately supplied with ammunition.\" Montgomery replied by writing: \"Request you will ask Ramsay from me by what authority he makes wild statements to you concerning my operations about which he can know nothing repeat nothing...there is no repeat no shortage of ammunition...The operations are receiving my personal attention\".\n\nField Marshal Walter Model, who was commanding Army Group B, ordered: \"The corridor to Walcheren will be kept open at any price; if necessary, it will be regained by forces ruthlessly detached from other sectors\". Model, a tough and ruthless National Socialist fanatic known for his devotion to Hitler, was called \"the Führer's Fireman\" because Hitler always gave him the toughest jobs. Model sent the 256th \"Volksgrenadier\" division and assault gun companies to allow the release of Battle Group Chill, the \"fire brigade\" consisting of 6th Paratroop Regiment and assault gun companies. On October 10, the Royal Regiment of Canada launched a surprise attack against the German lines at Woensdrecht, but for the next days was engaged in heavy fighting against counterattacks from Battle Group Chill. Major-General Charles Foulkes of the 2nd Division sent the Black Watch to support the Royal Regiment. The German forces at Woensdrecht greatly outnumbered the Canadians and had Model known of this, he might have launched a counter-offensive. Instead he used attrition tactics by making piecemeal counterattacks. During this time, war diaries of the Royal Hamilton Light Infantry noted \"many snipers in the houses and hedges\" had been encountered while the weather was \"cold and wet with high winds. Floods rising again\".\n\nSimonds had planned to commit the 4th Division to assist the 3rd Division with clearing the Breskens Pocket, but problems faced by the 2nd Division forced Simonds to start peeling off units from the 4th Division. On 9 October 1944, the South Alberta Regiment was ordered to \"protect the right flank of 2 Division and present infiltration between 2 Div and 1 Polish Armd. Div\". The next day, Simonds ordered General Harry Foster of the 4th Division \"to send 4 Cnd Armd Bde to the Antwerp area at the rate of one get a day, beginning 11 Oct\".\nOn October 13, on what would come to be known as \"Black Friday\", the Canadian 5th Infantry Brigade's Black Watch was virtually wiped out in an unsuccessful attack. The Black Watch attacked German positions, already known to be well defended, while the rest of the 2nd Division was not engaged, suggesting that neither Foulkes nor Simonds had taken seriously the problem of fighting by the river Scheldt. The Black Watch, whose officers had come from Montreal's Scottish elite, had billed itself as the most exclusive regiment in the Canadian Army. Despite this reputation, the Black Watch was considered to be a \"jinxed\" regiment which had had more than its fair share of misfortune. One officer of the Black Watch reported that the soldiers sent to replace the Black Watch men killed and wounded in France \"had little or no infantry training, and exhibited poor morale\" and that the men of C Company had \"all been killed or taken prisoner\" during \"Black Friday\". The Black Watch had already taken very heavy losses at the Battle of Verrières Ridge in July 1944 and its heavy losses on \"Black Friday\" almost finished the regiment. The Calgary Highlanders were to follow up with a more successful action, and their Carrier Platoon succeeded in taking the railroad station at Korteven, north of Woensdrecht. Fighting at Hoogerheide also ensued. On October 16, The Royal Hamilton Light Infantry, known as the \"Rileys\", under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Denis Whitaker, attacked Woensdrecht at night, taking much of the village. However, they were unable to pass beyond the ridge to the west of Woensdrecht. The \"Rileys\" took losses equal to those suffered by the Black Watch on \"Black Friday\", but as they had taken Woensdrecht while the Black Watch had been thrown back, the fighting on October 16 is not remembered as \"Black Monday\". By October 16, Woensdrecht was secured, cutting the land link to South Beveland and Walcheren. The Canadians achieved their first objective, but had suffered heavy casualties.\n\nOn 14 October Field Marshal Montgomery issued \"Notes on Command\" that were highly critical of Eisenhower's leadership and asked he be made Land Forces commander again. On the next day, Eisenhower replied that the issue was not the command arrangement, but rather the ability and willingness of Montgomery to obey orders, saying he had ordered him to clear the Scheldt and warned if he was unable to obey orders, he would be fired. Stung by Eisenhower's message, a chastised Montgomery promised: \"You will hear no more from me on the subject of command...Antwerp top priority in all operations of 21 Army Group\". On October 16, Montgomery issued a directive along that line. To the east, the British Second Army attacked westward to clear the Netherlands south of the Maas River during Operation Pheasant, securing the Scheldt region from counter-attacks.\n\nAs part of his newly focused efforts to assist Simonds, Montgomery assigned the 52nd Lowland Division of the British Army to the First Canadian Army. The 52nd division, recruited in the Lowlands of Scotland, was a mountain division, requiring men with unusual strength and stamina in order to fight in the mountains, making it into something of an elite division within the British Army. Simonds greatly appreciated having the Lowlanders under his command and told Major-General Edmund Hakewill-Smith that the 52nd was to play the decisive role in taking Walcheren island. As such, Simonds ordered Hakewill-Smith to start preparing an amphibious operation as Simonds planned to land the 52nd division on Walcheren at the same time the Canadians attacked the island.\n\nBetween October 23 and November 5, 1944, the U.S. 104th Infantry Division experienced its first battle while attached to the British I Corps. The division succeeded in pushing through the central portion of North Brabant against resistance from German snipers and artillery.\n\nMeanwhile, Simonds concentrated forces at the neck of the South Beveland peninsula. On 17 October, Major-General Harry Forster announced 4th Division would attack on 20 October to take Bergen op Zoom. The offensive began in the early morning of October 20 and was led by the Argyll and Lake Superior regiments. On October 22, the Lincoln and Welland Regiment, known as the \"Lincs\" in the Canadian Army, and The Algonquin Regiment took Esschen in a surprise attack. On October 23, the German 85th Division launched a counterattack led by some self-propelled (SP) guns. The Sherman tanks of the Governor-General's Foot Guards and the Lake Superior Regiments were decimated by the German SP guns. For the next days, there occurred what the 85th Division's war diary called \"extremely violent fighting\". The war diary of the Canadian Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders spoke of \"nightmarish fighting\" at Wouwsche Plantage. The fighting at Wouwsche Plantage was considered so important that Field Marshal Montgomery arrived at the headquarters of the 4th Canadian Division to press Forster for speed, but Forster protested that the flat \"polder\" country made speed impossible. One company of the Lincoln and Welland Regiment lost 50% of its men in a single day's fighting, while an advance company of the Algonquin Regiment was cut off and surrounded by the Wehrmacht, requiring desperate fighting to break out. The Canadian advance towards Bergen op Zoom forced Rundstedt to redeploy the elite 6th Parachute Regiment, which until then had been blocking the 2nd Canadian Division on the Beveland isthmus to the defense of Bergen op Zoom.\n\nBy October 24, Allied lines were pushed out further from the neck of the peninsula, ensuring German counterattacks would not cut off the 2nd Canadian Division, by then moving west along it towards Walcheren island. On October 26, 1944, Field Marshal von Rundstedt ordered to \"forestall an enemy breakthrough and economize with our strength, I hereby authorize Fifteenth Army to withdraw to the general line Bergen op Zoom/Roosendaal/Breda/Dongen/west of 's-Hertogenbosch\". The 4th Canadian Armoured Division moved north from the Leopold Canal and took Bergen op Zoom. The South Alberta Regiment and The Lincoln and Welland Regiment, which liberated Bergen op Zoom, reported \"the reception of the people of Bergen Op Zoom was as enthusiastic and wild as any yet seen\".\n\nDempsey had been ordered by Montgomery to use the 12th Corps to cut off the retreat of the German 15th Army. The 1st Polish Division had been assigned a defensive role and was joined on 23 October by the U.S. 104th \"Timberwolf\" Division commanded by General Terry Allen. Model argued that recently arrived 47th Panzer corps of two divisions making up 24,000 men and 40 tanks go on the offensive to distract the Allies, a request Rundstedt approved. On 27 October, the Germans attacked the U.S. 7th Armored Division, which was holding the flanks for the Canadians with much success, advancing 6 miles. Through Rundstedt believed that Model's offensive had achieved nothing and ordered his men back, in fact Model's \"spoiling attack\" had caused the British 15th Infantry Division to be pulled out of Tilburg to reinforce the 7th Division, slowing Dempsey's advance. As the Germans had attacked, the American Timberwolf Division went on the offensive on 27 October with the aim of taking Zundert. The disjointed attacks which Montgomery ordered with the 1st Polish Division and 104th heading towards Breda allowed the German 15th Army to escape once again.\n\nOn 29 October, the 4th Canadian Armored Division went on the offensive, with the Algonquin Regiment trying to encircle German position at Steenbergen just north of Bergen Op Zoom while the Governor-General's Foot Guards heading towards Steenbergen. The elite German 6th Parachute Regiment put stiff resistance, using \"panzerfausts\" (bazookas) and SP guns to knock out the Canadian tanks, but withdrew into Steenbergen when the Foot Guards threatened to cut off their line of retreat. The war diary of the Canadian 4th Armored Division sarcastically described the 6th Parachute Regiment as \"...under the command of Lt. Col von der Heydt and are of a better quality than most of the master race we have so far encountered. They worship their leader who is reported to have knocked out four of our tanks with a German bazooka...\". On 31 October, the Algonquin Regiment and the Grenadier Guards attacked the village of Welberg just outside of Steenbergen, which was so fiercely defended by the 6th Parachute Regiment that ultimately the almost entire 4th Division had to be committed to take Welberg over three days of fighting. On 7 November, Rundstedt, having pulled out most of the 15th Army, ordered German forces to move north of the Maas River in order to form a stronger defensive line.\n\nThe second main operation, Operation Switchback, opened with fierce fighting to reduce the Breskens Pocket. Here, the Canadian 3rd Infantry Division encountered tenacious German resistance as it fought to cross the Leopold Canal. An earlier failed attempt by the Canadian 4th Armoured Division at Moerbrugge had demonstrated the challenge they faced. In addition to the formidable German defences on both the Leopold Canal and the Schipdonk Canal, much of the approach area was flooded.\n\nThe Breskens pocket was held by the 64th Division commanded by General Knut Eberding, an infantryman with extensive experience on the Eastern Front who was regarded as an expert in defensive warfare. When the 15th Army had retreated from the Pas de Calais region of France across the Low Countries in September 1944, an enormous number of guns and ammunition ended up in the Breskens Pocket, including one hundred 20 mm anti-aircraft guns. They were used by the Wehrmacht as a sort of \"super-heavy machine gun\" and were much dreaded by the Canadian infantry. 20-mm guns could shred a man to pieces within seconds. Besides the 20-mm guns, the 64th Division had 23 of the famous 88 mm flak guns, known for their power to destroy an Allied tank with a single direct hit, together with 455 light machine guns and 97 mortars.\n\nWhile Montgomery focused on Operation Market Garden in September 1944, Eberling used three weeks of quiet to have his men dig in. He later expressed amazement about the Allied air forces hardly ever bombing the Breskens Pocket in September, allowing his men to build defensive works with barely an effort to stop them. The flat, swampy \"polder\" country made the Breskens Pocket into an \"island\", as much of the ground was impassable with only a few \"land bridges\" connecting the area to the mainland. The Wehrmacht had blown up dykes to flood much of the ground so that the Canadians could only advance along the raised country roads. Eberling reported that the \"polder\" country was \"a maze of ditches, canalized rivers and commercial canals, often above the level of the surrounding countryside...which made military maneuver almost impossible except on the narrow roads built on top of the dykes. Each of these roadways were carefully registered for both artillery and mortar fire\".\n\nIt was decided that the best place for an assault would be immediately east of where the two canals divided: a narrow strip of dry ground, only a few hundred metres wide at its base beyond the Leopold Canal (described as a long triangle with its base on the Maldegem-Aardenburg road and its apex near the village of Moershoofd some east). Despite the fact that the Ultra intelligence provided by Bletchley Park had revealed that the 64th Division was digging in for a hard fight and that Eberding had ordered a fight to the death, Canadian military intelligence underestimated the size of the German forces by 100%. They expected Eberding to retreat to Walcheren island once the 3rd Canadian division started to advance. However, Simonds appreciated the problems imposed by the polder country and the Germans concentrating their forces at the few \"land bridges\". He planned to use amphibious vehicles known as \"Buffalos\" to travel across the flooded countryside to outflank the German forces. Simonds planned to strike both at the Leopold canal and at the rear of the Breskens Pocket via an amphibious landing at the Braakman inlet.\n\nA two-pronged assault commenced. The Canadian 3rd Division's 7th Brigade made the initial assault across the Leopold Canal, while the 9th Brigade mounted the amphibious attack from the northern (coastal) side of the pocket. The 7th Brigade was known as the \"Western Brigade\" in the Canadian Army as its three regiments were all from western Canada with the Canadian Scottish Regiment coming from Victoria area, the Regina Rifles from the Regina area, and the Royal Winnipeg Rifles from the Winnipeg area, while the 9th Brigade was known as the \"Highland brigade\" as its three regiments were all Highland regiments with two coming from Ontario and another from Nova Scotia. The North Shore Regiment made a diversionary attack across the Leopold Canal, while the Regina Rifles regiment and the Canadian Scottish Regiment made the main assault. The Royal Montreal Regiment, which had never seen action yet, were pressing to get into the fight, and as such, the B company of the Regina Rifles, nicknamed the \"Johns\", agreed to step aside so one company of the Royal Montreal Regiment could take their place.\nThe 9th Highland Brigade, however, was unable to land at the same time as expected, owing to their unfamiliarity with amphibious vehicles. The assault began on October 6, supported by extensive artillery and Canadian-built Wasp Universal Carriers, equipped with flamethrowers. The 7th Brigade was supposed to be on their own for 40 hours, but instead faced 68 hours of the Germans using everything they had to try the stop the Canadians from crossing the Leopold canal.\n\nSimonds had planned to take the Wehrmacht by surprise by avoiding a preliminary bombardment and instead having the Wasps incinerate the German defenders with a \"barrage of flame\". The Wasps launched their barrage of flames across the Leopold Canal, allowing the 7th Brigade troops to scramble up over the steep banks and launch their assault boats. However, the Germans had dug in well and many escaped the flamethrowers. One company of the Royal Montreal Regiment was almost destroyed on the edge of the Leopold canal. The Germans brought down heavy machine gun and mortar fire and only a few of the Montrealers made it to the other side. The A company of the Regina Rifles did not attempt to cross the canal because the volume of machine gun fire convinced the experienced \"Johns\" that it was too dangerous to try to cross the canal in daylight. The Royal Montreal Regiment company held their precious \"bridgehead\" for several hours before being joined by the \"Johns\" three hours later when D company of the Regina Rifles crossed the canal. They were joined by C and A companies in the evening. By that time, most of the men of B company of the Royal Montreal Regiment, who had been anxious to get into action, were dead. By contrast, the \"barrage of flame\" worked as expected for the Canadian Scottish Regiment, who were able to cross the Leopold canal without much opposition and put up a kapok footbridge within the first hour of crossing the canal.\n\nTwo precarious, separate footholds were established, but the enemy recovered from the shock of the flamethrowers and counter-attacked, though the Germans were unable to move the Canadians from their vulnerable bridgeheads. Brigadier J.C. Spraggree became worried that the Regina Rifles might be destroyed by the Germans' ferocious defense, leading him to order his reserve, the Royal Winnipeg Rifles, to cross over the Canadian Scottish Regiment's bridgehead and link up with the Regina Rifles. The polderland, which limited avenues of advance, proved to be a major difficulty as the Germans concentrated their fire along the few raised roads. At the same time, the Regina Rifles came under heavy counterattacks and were barely hanging on. Canadian losses were so heavy that a squadron of tankmen from the 17th Hussars Regiment were given rifles and sent to fight as infantrymen. The Canadian historians' Terry Copp and Robert Vogel wrote the fighting \"...was at close quarter and of such ferocity that veterans insist that it was worse than the blackest days of Normandy\". The war diary of the Royal Winnipeg Rifles reported: \"Heavy casualties were suffered by both sides and the ground was littered with both German and Royal Winnipeg Rifle dead\". The war diary of the Canadian Scottish regiment sardonically noted: \"The grim fighting was such that Piats and Bazookas were used to blow down walls of houses where resistance was worst. These anti-tank weapons are quite handy little house-breakers!\" By October 9, the gap between the bridgeheads was closed, and by early morning on October 12 a position had been gained across the Aardenburg road.\n\nOctober 10, 11, and 12 were days of intense struggle while the men of the 7th Brigade with the Royal Winnipeg Rifles took, lost and then retook a group of houses known as Graaf Jan and the Regina Rifles found themselves pinned down by a group of well dug-in pillboxes that seemed to be resilient to artillery. The Germans had ample artillery, together with an immense number of artillery shells, and brought down heavy fire on any Canadian advance. Making the fighting even more difficult was the heavy rain that started the day after the crossing of the Leopold canal, with a post-operation report on Operation Switchback stating: \"In places the bridgehead was little bigger than the northern canal bank. Even protection was slight: slit trenches rapidly filled with water and had to be dug out many times a day\". The Canadians could not advance beyond their bridgehead on the Leopold canal, but Eberding, not content with stopping the Canadians, decided to \"annihilate\" the 7th Brigade by launching a series of counter-attacks that cost the German 64th Division dearly, as Canadian artillerymen were killing German infantrymen as proficiently as German artillerymen were killing Canadians. Simonds' plan failed when the 9th Brigade did not land at the same time as the 7th Brigade crossed the Leopold Canal and the 64th Division decisively stopped the advance of the 7th Brigade. In the end, only Eberding's determination to wipe out the 7th Brigade allowed Simonds' plan to work. In terms of numbers lost as a percentage of those engaged, the battle of the Leopold Canal was one of the bloodiest battles for Canada in World War II, with 533 killed and another 70 men breaking down due to battle exhaustion. Copp and Vogel wrote: \"One in every two men who crossed the Leopold became a casualty!\" The men who broke down under battle curled up in a fetal position and refused to move, speak, eat or drink as their spirits had been broken by the stress of the fighting. On 14 October 1944, Eberding, a man deeply committed to National Socialism, ordered that German soldiers who retreated without orders were to be regarded as deserters and summarily executed, and \"...where the names of deserters are ascertained their names will be made known to the civilian population at home and their next of kin will be looked upon as enemies of the German people\".\n\nThe Canadian 9th Brigade conducted an amphibious operation with the aid of Terrapin (the first use of the vehicle in Europe) and Buffalo amphibious vehicles, crewed by the British 5th Assault Regiment of the Royal Engineers. The brigade planned to cross the mouth of the Braakman Inlet in these vehicles and to land in the vicinity of Hoofdplaat, a tiny hamlet in the rear or coastal side of the pocket, thus exerting pressure from two directions at once. An \"after action\" report described the scene on the Terneuzen Canal: \"As darkness fell only tail lights showed. The locks at Sas Van Gent proved difficult to negotiate, for the Buffaloes were not easily steered when moving slowly. Their aeroplane engines created a sound so like the roar of aircraft that over Flushing the anti-aircraft guns fired sporadically...Because of the damage to the locks near the ferry (at Neuzen) it was necessary to cut ramps in the bank and by-pass the obstacle. Not only was this a slow progress, but many craft were damaged. The decision was therefore taken to postpone the operation for 24 hours\". The delay allowed for Admiral Ramsay to volunteer the services of Lieutenant-Commander R.D. Franks of the Royal Navy to serve as a pilot, guiding the Buffaloes expertly down the river Scheldt without the Germans noticing. Franks reported: \"It was nearly ideal night, calm and quiet with a half moon behind a light cloud, but a bit of haze which restricted visibility to a mile at most. We were quite invisible from the north shore of the Scheldt, where all was quiet...Our touchdown was planned to be on either side of a groyne...we were able to identify it and then lie off flicking our lamps to guide the LVT's in. They deployed and thundered past us...I could see through my binoculars the infantry disembark on dry land and move off\".\n\nIn spite of difficulties in maneuvering vehicles through the canals and the resulting 24-hour delay, the Germans were taken by surprise and a bridgehead was established. The North Nova Scotia Highland regiment landed with no resistance and woke nine sleeping German soldiers at their dug-out, taking them prisoner. The Highland Light Infantry regiment's major problem at the landing site was not the Wehrmacht, but mud. After the initial landing, the Cameron Highlanders and the Stormont, Dundas and Glengary Highlanders were landed by Franks. Once again, the Germans recovered quickly and counter-attacked with ferocity; however, they were slowly forced back. Upon hearing of the landing at the Braakman Inlet, Field Marshal Model reacted promptly, telling Hitler: \"Today, the enemy launched a decision-seeking attack on the Breskens bridgehead\". Living up to his reputation as the \"Führer's Fireman\", Model ordered Eberding to immediately \"annihilate\" the Highland Brigade.\n\nStarting on daybreak on October 10, the Highland Brigade came under counter-attack, with the Stormont, Dundas and Glengary Highland regiment, known as the \"Glens\" in the Canadian Army, spending two days fighting for the village of Hoofdplaat with a loss of 17 dead and 44 wounded. The North Nova Scotia Highlanders took three days to take the village of Driewegen, with the regimental war diary reporting: \"The artillery is kept busy and this dyke to dyke fighting is very different to what we have been doing. It appears the enemy are a much better type than we have been running into lately\". The Canadian Army was known for the quality of its artillery, which took a heavy toll on the German counter-attacks by day, with the war diary of 15th Field Regiment for 12 October reading: \"Today we were the busiest we have been since Cormelles and Falaise pocket days\". The Germans' nightly attacks enjoyed more success, with the Highland Light Infantry losing and then retaking the village of Biervliet during a confusing night battle. Canadian Major-General Daniel Spry of the 3rd Division changed the original plan to commit the 8th Brigade in support of the 7th Brigade, and instead sent the 8th Brigade to link up with the 4th Division and then come to the support of the 9th Brigade.\nThe Canadian 10th Brigade of the 4th Armoured Division crossed the Leopold Canal and advanced at Isabella Polder. Then the 3rd Division's 8th Brigade was called to move south from the coastal side of the pocket. This opened up a land-based supply route into the pocket. Eberding used his reserves in his counter-attacks and reported to the Oberkommando der Wehrmacht that some units of the 64th Division had \"been reduced to one third\". Between October 10 and 15, the 64th Division staged a \"fighting retreat\", as Eberding called it, to new pocket designed to shorten his lines, since so many of his units were now under-strength. The Canadian Scottish Regiment found the village of Eede empty and abandoned, entered the village and promptly came under heavy artillery bombardment. The Queen's Own Rifles regiment, leading the advance of the 8th Brigade, found the village of IJzendijke \"well defended\" on October 15, but abandoned the next day. The Highland Light Infantry and the \"Glens\" broke through the main German line, but General Spry, unaware of this, ordered a withdrawal, in order to concentrate greater forces.\n\nThe German officers explained away their retreat by claiming they were being overwhelmed by tanks, but in fact there were only four, belonging to the British Columbia Regiment, operating north of the Leopold canal. The presumed tanks were actually the M10 self-propelled anti-tank guns of the 3rd Canadian Anti-Tank Regiment which provided fire support to the Canadian infantry. Joining the Canadians on October 20 were the 157th Highland Light Infantry Brigade of the 52nd Division, which allowed Spry to group the three brigades of the 3rd Division for the final push.\n\nFrom the summer of 1944 the Canadian Army experienced a major shortage of infantrymen, owing to policies of Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie-King. In order to defeat Maurice Duplessis, the \"Union Nationale\" premier of Quebec who called a snap election in 1939 to seek a mandate to oppose the war, Mackenzie-King had promised that only volunteers would be sent to fight overseas and that there would be no overseas conscription. With only so many Canadians willing to volunteer, especially as infantry, the Canadian Army ran seriously short of infantrymen, as their losses were not compensated by replacements. In planning the final push, Spry favored a cautious, methodical approach, emphasizing firepower that was designed to save as many of the lives of his men as possible.\n\nThe 3rd Division fought additional actions to clear German troops from the towns of Breskens, Oostburg, Zuidzande, and Cadzand, as well as the coastal fortress Fort Frederik Hendrik. When advancing, the Canadians proceeded very slowly and used massive firepower via air strikes and artillery bombardments when faced with opposition. The shortage of infantry replacements meant that Canadian officers were loath to engage in operations that might lead to heavy losses. On October 24, Field Marshal Montgomery arrived at the headquarters of the 3rd Division. Despite the fact that Montgomery had chosen to fight the Battle of Arnhem instead of clearing the Scheldt in September 1944, thus having allowed the Germans to dig in, he criticized the 3rd Canadian Division for its slow advance, saying the Breskens Pocket should have been cleared weeks ago and calling the Canadian officers cowards for their unwillingness to take heavy losses. As a result, the 157th Brigade was withdrawn as a punishment and the 3rd Division was ordered to press on with \"all speed\".\n\nDespite the fact that the Canadians could not afford heavy losses, the 3rd Division began a period of \"intense combat\" to clear out the Breskens Pocket. The Régiment de la Chaudière attacked the town of Oostburg on October 24, losing an entire company, but since they had been ordered to take Oostburg at \"any price\", the \"Chads\" dug in to hold their ground while the Queen's Own Rifles came to their aid. On October 25, the Queen's Own Rifles took Oostburg after what its war diary called \"a wild bayonet charge\" amid \"fairly heavy\" casualties. Lieutenant Boos of the A company of the Queen's Own Rifles was awarded the Military Cross for leading what should have been a suicidal bayonet charge on the Oostburg town gates but ended with him and his men taking the gates. Despite tenacious German opposition, inspired at least in part by Eberding's policy of executing soldiers who retreated without orders, the Canadians pushed the Germans back steadily. In the last days of the battle, German morale declined and the number of executions of \"deserters\" increased as many German soldiers wished to surrender rather than die in what was clearly a lost battle. The Régiment de la Chaudière, which could ill-afford the losses, seized a bridgehead on the \"Afleidingskanaal van de Lije\" (Derivation Canal of the Lys), over which the engineers built a bridge.\n\nOn November 1, the North Nova Scotia Highlanders stormed a pillbox and captured Eberding, who, despite his own orders to fight to the death for the Führer, surrendered without firing a shot. After being taken prisoner, Eberding met Spry and accused him of not being aggressive enough in taking advantage of \"opportunities\", saying any German general would have moved far more swiftly. Spry responded that having lost about 700 men killed in two \"aggressive\" operations within five days, he preferred a methodical advance that preserved the lives of his men. Eberling replied that this showed \"weakness\" on the side of the Canadians, noting that Wehrmacht generals were only concerned with winning and never let concern with casualties interfere with the pursuit of victory.\n\nOperation Switchback ended on November 3, when the Canadian 1st Army liberated the Belgian towns of Knokke and Zeebrugge, officially closing the Breskens Pocket and eliminating all German forces south of the Scheldt.\n\nOn the afternoon of October 22, Major-General Foulkes, as acting commander of the 2nd Canadian Corps told the 2nd Canadian Division that the start of Operation Vitality, the operation to take the South Beveland peninsula, had been pushed forward by two days by the \"express orders from Field Marshal Montgomery who had placed this operation at first priority for the British and Canadian forces in this area\". Major Ross Ellis of The Calgary Highlanders told Foulkes that the men were tired after the hard fighting earlier in October, only to be informed that the operation would go through. Morale in the 2nd Division was poor, with only the Royal Regiment of Canada, the Essex Scottish Regiment, the Cameron Highland Regiment and the Calgary Highlanders being anything close to assembling four rifle companies. The attack was to be led by the 6th Brigade consisting of the Cameron Highlanders, the battered South Saskatchewan Regiment and the even more battered Fusiliers Mont-Royal, who despite being very under-strength were assigned to lead the attack on the centre. This third major operation opened on October 24, when the 2nd Canadian Infantry Division began its advance down the South Beveland peninsula. The Canadians hoped to advance rapidly, bypassing opposition and seizing bridgeheads over the \"Kanaal door Zuid-Beveland\" (Canal through South Beveland), but they too were slowed by mines, mud and strong enemy defenses.\n\nThe war diary of the Fusiliers Mont-Royal reports simply that the regiment had taken \"heavy casualties\", the Cameron Highlanders reported \"stiff opposition\" from the 6th Parachute Regiment of the Luftwaffe, while the South Saskatchewan Regiment reported: \"The county over which we had come was not the kind you dream about to make an attack in as it was partly wooded, partly open, and it had many buildings, ditches, etc\". Joining the 6th Brigade later that day were the 5th Brigade, with the Calgary Highlanders leading the assault and reporting the \"remnants\" of two platoons that had advanced beyond the dyke to be joined by the Black Watch when night fell. The Royal Regiment had seized its start-line during the night and in the early morning was joined by the Essex Scottish Regiment and the Fort Garry Horse Regiment to make a slow advance supported by heavy artillery fire. On October 25, the Essex Scottish Regiment reported that 120 Germans had surrendered and that the \"tough shell of defences at the narrowest point of the peninsula was broken\". On October 26, the 70th Infantry Division's commander General Wilhelm Daser reported to Rundstedt that the situation was untenable, and that retreat was unavoidable.\n\nAn amphibious attack was made across the Western Scheldt by the British 52nd (Lowland) Division to get in behind the German's Canal through South Beveland defensive positions. The 156th West Scottish Brigade described the Dutch countryside as \"extremely difficult\", but also noted that German morale was poor, stating that they had expected the Wehrmacht to fight harder and that most of their casualties were coming from mines and booby-traps. With the formidable German defence outflanked, the Canadian 6th Infantry Brigade began a frontal attack in assault boats. The engineers were able to bridge the canal on the main road.\n\nWith the canal line gone, the German defense crumbled and South Beveland was cleared. The third phase of the Battle of the Scheldt was now complete. Daser ordered his men to retreat and make a stand on \"Fortress Walcheren\".\n\nAs the fourth phase of the battle opened, only the island of Walcheren at the mouth of the Scheldt remained in German hands. The island's defenses were extremely strong: heavy coastal batteries on the western and southern coasts defended both the island and the western Scheldt estuary, and the coastline had been strongly fortified against amphibious assaults. Furthermore, a landward-facing defensive perimeter had been built around the town of Flushing (Dutch: \"Vlissingen)\" to defend its port facilities, should an Allied landing on Walcheren succeed. The only land approach was the Sloedam, a long, narrow causeway from South Beveland, little more than a raised two-lane road. To complicate matters, the flats that surrounded this causeway were too saturated with sea water for movement on foot, but had too little water for an assault in storm boats.\n\nTo hamper German defense, Walcheren island's dykes were breached by attacks from RAF Bomber Command. Due to the high risks for the local population, the bombings were sanctioned at the highest level and preceded by leafleting to warn the island's inhabitants. The first bombing was on October 3 at Westkapelle, on the western shore of the island. The Westkapelle dyke was attacked by 240 heavy bombers, resulting in a large gap that allowed the seawater to enter. This flooded the central part of the island, allowing the use of amphibious vehicles and forcing the German defenders onto the high ground surrounding the island and in the towns. The bombing at Westkapelle came with severe loss of life, with 180 civilian deaths resulting from the bombardment and the resulting flooding. Attacks on other dykes had to ensure that the flooding could not be contained. On October 7, dykes in the south were bombed, west and east of Flushing. Finally, on October 11, northern dykes at Veere became a target. Bombing against the island defenses was hampered by bad weather and requirements for attacks on Germany. \n\nThe island was then attacked from three directions: across the Sloedam causeway from the east, across the Scheldt from the south, and by sea from the west.\n\nThe 2nd Canadian Infantry Division attacked the Sloedam causeway on October 31. Post-war controversy exists around the claim that there was a \"race\" within the 2nd Division for the first regiment to take the causeway to Walcheren island, implying that the failure to take the causeway on October 31 was due to reckless determination to win the \"race\". Colonel C.P. Stacey wrote about the \"race\" in the official history of the Canadian Army, a charge that was vehemently disputed by Copp and Vogel in the \"Maple Leaf Route\".\n\nThe 4th Brigade of the 2nd Division had advanced rapidly up to the causeway, which led to Brigadier Keefler giving orders to take the causeway while the task of taking the Beveland end of the causeway had been given to the 52nd Division. The Royal Regiment took the eastern end of the causeway in a night attack. As there seemed an actual chance of taking the entire causeway, orders were sent to the 5th Brigade of the 2nd Division to launch an attack, to be led by the \"jinxed\" Black Watch who were to advance down the causeway while the Calgary Highlanders and Le Régiment de Maisonneuve were to advance by boat. An initial attack by the Black Watch was rebuffed while it discovered the waters in the channel were too shallow for the 2nd Division to cross it, leaving a company of the Black Watch stranded on the causeway under heavy German attack. The Calgary Highlanders then sent a company over which was also stopped halfway across the causeway. During a second attack on the morning of November 1, the Highlanders managed to gain a precarious foothold. A day of fighting followed and then the Highlanders were relieved by the Régiment de Maisonneuve, who struggled to maintain the bridgehead. The Régiment de Maisonneuve finally did secure the bridgehead, only to find that it was useless for an advance, since the German defenses in the \"polderland\" were too entrenched for an advance to be made.\n\nGeneral Foulkes ordered Major-General Hakewill-Smith to launch the 52nd Division into a frontal attack on Walcheren, which Hakewill-Smith protested strongly. The \"Maisies\" withdrew onto the Causeway on November 2, to be relieved by the 1st Battalion, Glasgow Highlanders of the 52nd Division. Instead of launching a frontal attack as ordered by Foulkes, Hakewill-Smith outflanked the Germans by landing the Cameronian regiment at the village of Nieuwdorp, two miles south of the causeway, and linked up with the Glasgow Highlanders the next day. In conjunction with the waterborne attacks, the 52nd continued the advance. The battle for the causeway had caused the 2nd Division 135 dead in what has become of the most controversial operations of the 2nd Division, with much criticism centering on the decisions of Foulkes. Despite the fact that Lieutenant-General Simonds and Foulkes were both British immigrants to Canada, the two detested one another and Simonds often spoke of his wish to sack Foulkes, believing him to be incompetent.\n\nBecause of port shortage, Captain Pugsley of the Royal Navy had to improvise heavily to provide the necessary shipping for the landings on Walcheren island. Despite the refusal of Bomber Command to strike various German fortifications on Walcheren, opening up the Scheldt was regarded as so important that during a meeting on October 31 between Simonds, Foulkes, and Admiral Ramsay, it was decided that the landings on Walcheren were to go ahead. Captain Pugsley, aboard the command ship HMS \"Kingsmill\", was given the final decision, with orders to cancel the operation if he thought it was too risky. At the same time, Simonds ordered two Canadian artillery regiments to concentrate 300 guns on the mainland, to provide fire support for the landings. The amphibious landings were conducted in two parts on November 1.\n\nOperation Infatuate I consisted mainly of infantry of the 155th Infantry Brigade (4th and 5th battalions King's Own Scottish Borderers, 7th/9th battalion, Royal Scots) and No. 4 Commando, who were ferried across from Breskens in small landing craft to an assault beach in the south-eastern area of Flushing, codenamed \"Uncle\" Beach. With the Canadian artillery opening fire, the 4th Commando were carried ashore in twenty Landing Craft Assaults, to be followed by the King's Own Scottish Borderers regiment who attacked Flushing. During the next few days, they engaged in heavy street fighting against the German defenders, destroying much of Flushing. The Hotel Britannia, which before the war had catered to British tourists, was the headquarters of the German 1019th Regiment holding Flushing and became the scene of \"spectacular fighting\" described as \"worthy of an action film\" when the Royal Scots regiment engaged to take the hotel, which finally fell after three days.\nOperation Infatuate II was the amphibious landing at Westkapelle, also conducted on the morning of November 1. To cross the shallow water required a daylight assault with fire support provided by the Support Squadron Eastern Flank (SSEF) commanded by Commander K.A Sellar, with additional support from the battleship HMS \"Warspite\" and two monitors, HMS \"Erebus\" and HMS \"Roberts\". Air support was limited due to weather conditions. With no air support, no spotter aircraft to guide the guns of his ships, and the Germans fully alerted with their coastal artillery already firing at the British ships, Captain Pugsley was faced with the difficult decision to cancel or proceed, and after some deliberation, sent out the message reading \"Nelson\", which was the code name to land. The radar-guided guns of the German coastal artillery took a heavy toll on the SSEF, which lost 9 ships sunk and another 11 that were so badly damaged that they had to be broken up for scrap as they were beyond repair. After a heavy bombardment by the Royal Navy (a battleship and two monitors, plus a support squadron of landing craft carrying guns), troops of 4th Special Service Brigade (Nos. 41, 47, and 48 Royal Marines Commando and No. 10 Inter Allied Commando, consisting mainly of Belgian and Norwegian troops) supported by the specialized armoured vehicles (amphibious transports, mine-clearing tanks, bulldozers, etc.) of the 79th Armoured Division were landed on both sides of the gap in the sea dyke, using large landing craft as well as amphibious vehicles to bring men and tanks ashore. The Royal Marines took Westkapelle and Domburg the next day. Anticipating the fall of \"Fortress Walcheren\", on November 4, Admiral Ramsay ordered that mine-sweepers start the work of removing the German mines from the river Scheldt, a task that was not completed until 28 November.\n\nHeavy fighting ensued in Domburg as well before the ruins of the town were captured. On 3 November, the Royal Marines had linked with the 52nd Division. Part of the troops moved south-east toward Flushing, while the main force went north-east to clear the northern half of Walcheren (in both cases along the high-lying dune areas, as the center of the island was flooded) and link up with the Canadian troops who had established a bridgehead on the eastern part of the island. Fierce resistance was again offered by some of the German troops defending this area, so that fighting continued until November 7.\n\nOn November 6, the island capital Middelburg fell after a calculated gamble on the Allies' part when the Royal Scots attacked Middelburg with a force of Buffaloes from the rear. Since Middelburg was impossible to reach with tanks, due to the inundations, a force of amphibious Landing Vehicle Tracked (\"Buffaloes\") were driven into the town, forcing an end to all German resistance on November 8. General Daser portrayed the Buffaloes as tanks, giving him an excuse to surrender as he was faced with an overwhelming force.\n\nMeanwhile, the Canadian 4th Armoured Division had pushed eastward past Bergen-op-Zoom to Sint Philipsland where it sank several German vessels in Zijpe harbor.\n\nWith the approach to Antwerp clear, the fourth phase of the Battle of the Scheldt was complete. Between 20 and 28 November, Royal Navy minesweepers were brought in to clear the Scheldt estuary of naval mines and other underwater obstacles left by the Germans. On November 28, after much-needed repairs of the port facilities, the first convoy entered Antwerp, led by the Canadian-built freighter \"Fort Cataraqui\".\n\nAt the end of the five-week offensive, the Canadian First Army had taken 41,043 German prisoners. Complicated by the waterlogged terrain, the Battle of the Scheldt proved to be a challenging campaign in which significant losses were suffered by the Canadians.\n\nThroughout the Battle of the Scheldt, battle exhaustion was a major problem for the Canadians. The 3rd Canadian Division had landed on D-Day on 6 June 1944 and had been fighting more or less continuously since. During the Normandy campaign, the 3rd Canadian Division had taken the heaviest losses of all the divisions in the 21st Army Group, with the 2nd Canadian Division taking the second-heaviest losses. A psychiatric report from October 1944 stated that 90% of battle exhaustion cases were men who been in action for three months or longer. Men suffering from battle exhaustion would go catatonic and curl up in fetal position, but the report found that after a week of rest, most men would recover enough to speak and move about. According to the report, the principal cause of battle exhaustion \"seemed to be futility. The men claimed there was nothing to which to look forward to – no rest, no leave, no enjoyment, no normal life and no escape...The second most prominent cause...seemed to be the insecurity in battle because the condition of the battlefield did not allow for average cover. The third was the fact that they were seeing too much continual death and destruction, loss of friends, etc\". The Canadian government policy of sending only volunteers overseas had caused major shortages of men, especially in the infantry regiments. Canadian units were too under-strength to allow leave, where U.S. and British units could. This stretched the soldiers tremendously. A common complaint of soldiers suffering from battle exhaustion was that the Army was to trying to \"get blood from a stone\", with the under-strength units being pushed relentlessly to keep fighting, without replacements for their losses and no chance to rest.\n\nAfter the battle, the II Canadian Corps moved to the Nijmegen sector to take over from the 30 British Corps. Although Antwerp was opened to Allied shipping on 28 November, the German 15th Army had delayed the use of Antwerp to the Allies from 4 September to 28 November 1944, which was longer than what Hitler had hoped for, justifying the German decision to hold the river Scheldt. Even before the Battle of the Scheldt, the Canadian Army was aware that it lacked reinforcements to replace its losses, and the losses endured during the fighting help provoke the Conscription Crisis. The Canadian Defense Minister, Colonel John Ralston, was forced to report to the prime minister, William Lyon Mackenzie King, that the current policy of only sending volunteers overseas was not sustainable as the losses in the Battle of the Scheldt vastly exceeded the number of volunteers, and conscripts would have to be sent overseas. Copp and Vogel strongly praised Simonds's leadership of the 1st Canadian Army, writing how his operations \"were brilliantly planned and sometimes brilliantly executed\". Copp and Vogel also defended the Canadians from charges of incompetence and cowardice made by American and British historians stating: \"The Canadian Army had, through October, the most difficult and important task of all the Allied armies, it had carried through a series of complex operations to a successful conclusion and it had done this with verve and skill despite the growing manpower shortage now apparent on all the Allied fronts.\"\n\nAfter the first ship reached Antwerp on November 28, convoys started bringing a steady stream of supplies to the continent, but this actually changed very little. Operation Queen continued to flounder while the Americans then suffered a major reverse in the Hurtgen forest offensive by December. The dismal fall weather hindered not only the Canadians in the Battle of Scheldt, but also the operations of 1st U.S Army in the Hurtgen forest, the 3rd U.S Army in Lorraine, and the 9th U.S. Army, the 7th U.S Army and 1st French Army further south. On 5 November 1944, Eisenhower calculated that for the offensives into the western borderlands of Germany to be successful, over the following month, it would require 6 million artillery shells, two million mortar shells, 400 more tanks, 1,500 jeeps, and 150,000 spare tires to replace worn-out ones, none of which was readily available until the Scheldt was cleared. By 15 December, only the 7th U.S. Army had reached the Rhine by taking Strasbourg while the U.S. Third Army had advanced into Germany to run up against one of the strongest sections of the West Wall. At least part of the reason for the failure for the Allied offensives was the shortage of infantry replacements with the Americans coming close to running out of infantry replacements while the British were forced to break up divisions to provide reinforcements. Germany recognized the danger of the Allies having a deep water port and in an attempt to destroy it – or at least disrupt the flow of supplies – the German military fired more V-2 rockets at Antwerp than at any other city. Nearly half of the V-2s launched during the war were aimed at Antwerp. The port of Antwerp was so strategically vital that during the Battle of the Bulge, the last major German offensive campaign on the Western Front, launched on 16 December 1944, the primary German objective was to retake the city and its port. Without Antwerp being opened, which allowed 2.5 million tons of supplies to arrive at that port between November 1944 and April 1945, the Allied advance into Germany in 1945 with the American, British, and French armies heading into the \"Reich\" would have been impossible.\n\nThe Battle of the Scheldt has been described by historians as unnecessarily difficult, as it could have been cleared earlier and more easily had the Allies given it a higher priority than Operation Market Garden. American historian Charles B. MacDonald called the failure to immediately take the Scheldt \"[o]ne of the greatest tactical mistakes of the war.\" Because of the flawed strategic choices made by the Allies in early September 1944, the battle became one of the longest and bloodiest that the Canadian army faced over the course of the Second World War.\n\nThe French Channel ports were \"resolutely defended\" like \"fortresses\" and Antwerp was the only viable alternative. However, Field Marshal Montgomery ignored Admiral Cunningham, who said that Antwerp would be \"as much use as Timbuctoo\" unless the approaches were cleared, and Admiral Ramsay, who warned SHAEF and Montgomery that the Germans could block the Scheldt estuary with ease.\n\nThe Antwerp city and port fell in early September and were secured by XXX Corps under the command of Lieutenant General Brian Horrocks. Montgomery halted XXX Corps for resupply short of the wide Albert Canal to the north of the city, which consequently remained in enemy hands. Horrocks regretted this after the war, believing that his corps might have advanced another with the fuel available. Unknown to the Allies, at that time XXX Corps was opposed by only a single German division.\n\nThe pause allowed the Germans to regroup around the Scheldt River, and by the time the Allies resumed their advance, General Kurt Student's 1st Parachute Army had arrived and set up strong defensive positions along the opposite side of the Albert Canal and Scheldt river. The task of breaking the strengthened German line, which stretched from Antwerp to the North Sea along the Scheldt River, would fall to the First Canadian Army in the month-long, costly Battle of the Scheldt. The Canadians \"sustained 12,873 casualties in an operation which could have been achieved at little cost if tackled immediately after the capture of Antwerp. ... This delay was a grave blow to the Allied build-up before winter approached.\" \n\nThe British historian Antony Beevor was of opinion that Montgomery, not Horrocks was to blame for not clearing the approaches, as Montgomery \"was not interested in the estuary and thought that the Canadians could clear it later\". Allied commanders were looking ahead to \"leaping the Rhine...in virtually one bound.\" Despite Eisenhower wanting the capture of one major port with its dock facilities intact, Montgomery insisted that the First Canadian Army should clear the German garrisons in Boulogne, Calais and Dunkirk first, although these ports had all suffered demolitions and would not be navigable for some time. Boulogne (Operation Wellhit) and Calais (Operation Undergo) were captured on 22 and 29 September 1944; but Dunkirk was not captured until the end of the war on 9 May 1945 (see Siege of Dunkirk). When the Canadians eventually stopped their assaults on the northern French ports and started on the Scheldt approaches on 2 October, they found that German resistance was far stronger than they had imagined, as the remnants of the Fifteenth Army had had time to escape and reinforce the island of Walcheren and the South Beveland peninsula \n\nWinston Churchill claimed in a telegram to Jan Smuts on October 9 that \"As regards Arnhem, I think you have got the position a little out of focus. The battle was a decided victory, but the leading division, asking, quite rightly, for more, was given a chop. I have not been afflicted with any feeling of disappointment over this and am glad our commanders are capable of running this kind of risk.\" He said that the risks \"...were justified by the great prize so nearly in our grasp\" but acknowledged that \"[c]learing the Scheldt Estuary and opening the port of Antwerp had been delayed for the sake of the Arnhem thrust. Thereafter it was given first priority.\" \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853297", "title": "Mustafa Reşid Pasha", "text": "Mustafa Reşid Pasha\n\nKoca Mustafa Reşid Pasha (literally \"Mustafa Reşid Pasha the Great\"; 13 March 1800 – 7 January 1858) was an Ottoman statesman and diplomat, known best as the chief architect behind the Ottoman government reforms known as Tanzimat.\n\nBorn in Constantinople (now Istanbul) in 1800, Mustafa Reşid entered public service at an early age and rose rapidly, becoming ambassador to France (1834) and to the United Kingdom (1836), minister for foreign affairs (1837), and once again ambassador to the United Kingdom (1838) and to France (1841). In the settlement of the Oriental Crisis of 1840, and during the Crimean War and the ensuing peace negotiations, he rendered important diplomatic services to the Ottoman state. He returned a third time as ambassador to France in 1843. Between 1845 and 1857, he held the office of Grand Vizier six times.\n\nOne of the greatest and most versatile statesmen of his time, thoroughly acquainted with European politics and well-versed in national and international affairs, he was a convinced partisan for reform and the principal author of the legislative remodeling of the Ottoman administration known as Tanzimat. His efforts to promote reforms within the government led to the advancement of the careers of many other reformers, such as Fuad Pasha and Mehmed Emin Âli Pasha.\n\nMustafa Reşid was born on 13 March 1800. His father, Mustafa Efendi, worked as a civil servant, but died when Mustafa Reşid was only ten. Mustafa had been attending a madrasa in hopes of becoming a religious leader. However, when his father died, Reşid was forced to end his education in the madrassa in order to live with his uncle, Ispartalı Ali Pasha, who at the time was a court chamberlain under Sultan Mahmud II. Reşid would then study at a scribal institution. When Ali Pasha was promoted to governor of Morea Eyalet in 1816, Reşid traveled with him.\n\nDuring the Greek War of Independence between 1820 and 1822, which occurred during his uncle's second term as governor of Morea and had the support of major European countries, Reşid acted as the seal carrier for the Grand Vizier and commander-in-chief, Seyyid Ali Pasha. During the war, Reşid noted for the first time several key points that would majorly influence his later political life. First, he noted that Ottoman institutions required major reform, especially needing a modernized army like that of Muhammad Ali Pasha, who had led the Egyptian army in support of the Greek rebels against the Ottomans. Secondly, he realized that foreign European assistance and support was essential for the continuation of the empire.\n\nAfter being removed from his position, along with all the followers of Seyyid Ali Pasha following his rout and dismissal as commander-in-chief, Mustafa Reşid landed a job in the Ottoman Porte working as a clerk under the Foreign Minister. He quickly found the respect and praise of his superiors and rose up the ranks. During the Russo-Turkish War (1828–29), Reşid worked sending reports to Istanbul on the war. His good work during the war found him the attention of the Sultan, Mahmud II, who promoted Reşid into the Amedi Odasi, where he worked as the secretariat for incoming correspondence to the Porte. At the conclusion of the war, Mustafa Reşid was appointed as secretary to the Ottoman delegation to the Peace talks in Adrianople (Edirne) in 1829.\n\nDuring this time, he became a follower of Pertew Pasha, his superior in the office of incoming correspondence. Pertew Pasha held strong pro-British policies and relationship with the British ambassador Lord Ponsonby. Reşid, would also accompany Pertew during the negotiations in Egypt with the rebellious Muhammad Ali Pasha. Muhammad Ali took notice of Reşid's prowess as a diplomat and scribe and offered the young bureaucrat a superior position among the Egyptian administration, but Reşid denied the offer. By 1832, Reşid had been appointed to the position of amedçi, or Receiver, which was the head of the incoming correspondence secretariat. His familiarity with Egyptian affairs landed him the role of talking with Muhammad Ali's son, Ibrahim Pasha, after he routed Ottoman forces at Konya and reached Kütahya in western Anatolia by 1833. However, Reşid faced backlash after appointing Ibrahaim Pasha as the tax collector for the district of Adana, along with making him governor of Damascus and Aleppo.\n\nMustafa Reşid was first sent to Paris in 1834 with the task of regaining Algeria from the recent French occupation. Although he ultimately failed, he would remain in Paris as a permanent ambassador until being transferred to London in 1836.\n\nReşid transferred to the Ottoman Embassy in London where he created strong ties with the British Government, especially the London Diplomat Ponsonby who his Mentor, Pertew Pasha, had strong ties with as well. However, his major achievement during his stint as ambassador was gaining the support of the British Government for the Sultan against Muhammad Ali in Egypt. After being appointed Foreign Minister in 1838, as well as given the title of pasha, Reşid Pasha returned again to London in order to form a defensive alliance against the Muhammad Ali and his Egyptian forces. Although the talks materialized into nothing, on 16 August Reşid Pasha did manage to negotiate the Treaty of Balta Liman which was a commercial treaty between the Ottoman Empire and Britain. The treaty allowed for British goods within the Ottoman markets and also promised to end state monopolies within the Ottoman Empire.\n\nWhen Muhammad Ali moved to occupy Syria with his Egyptian army led by his son Ibrahim, then Grand Vizier of Egypt, Hüsrev Pasha conceded not only Syria but also Egypt and Adana as well. Mustafa Reşid quickly realized the errors in Hüsrev Pasha's actions, which would have led to the destruction of the Ottoman Empire and inevitable Russian domination, and gained the support of the British due to his strong ties from his previous ambassadorship. The French, who supported the Egyptians due to their desire to gain more influence in the region after the conquest of Algeria, went up against the other Great Powers: England, Austria, Prussia, and Russia, who supported the Ottoman Empire. Mustafa Reşid, now Foreign Minister, played a key role in the crisis. Throughout the crisis, Mustafa Reşid remained on the side of the Great Powers and consistently refused a direct settlement without the involvement of the Great Powers, much to the disappointment of Egypt and France.\n\nHowever, unbeknownst to the Great Powers, Mustafa Reşid, with approval from the Sultan, had drafted a settlement by the summer 1840 due to his impatience with the Great Powers' inability to reach an agreement. This secret settlement would grant Egypt to Muhammad Ali as a hereditary state along with the provinces of Acre, Saida, and Tripoli, a position that could be passed down to his sons and grandsons. The condition was that none of them could accumulate any more provinces, and after their deaths the provinces would return to Ottoman control. This plan was never put into place due to the London Convention of 1840, however.\n\nAfter the London Crisis, Mustafa Reşid received threats from the French embassy that if they were to ratify it, France would actively support the rebellious Egyptian Governor. Reşid ignored the threats and the Sublime Porte went on to sign the conference. After Muhammad Ali's refusal to sign the London Convention of 1840, all the Great Power diplomats met with Reşid Pasha in order to draft Ali Pasha's removal from office much to the dismay of their respective countries. After a swift military intervention that led to the defeat of Egyptian forces in Syria, Commodore Napier, leader of the allied forces, held a peace convention of his own with Muhammad Ali, which was met with great reprisal from Mustafa Reşid and the other diplomats. On 11 December 1840, Muhammad Ali Pasha finally submitted to the sultan and pledged his allegiance to the Sublime Porte.\n\nAfter the conclusion of the Oriental Crisis, Muhammad Ali Pasha bribed the Ottoman Porte to remove Mustafa Reşid Pasha from his post as Foreign Minister. He returned to his post as Ambassador to Paris soon after where he mainly focused his efforts on solving the Lebanon Question, which resulted from a dispute between a Christian group called the Maronites based out of Lebanon and an extremist Shia group called the Druzes who came from Syria and Lebanon.\n\nAt the start of 1853, Mustafa Reşid held no political office. In 1852–53, tensions rose between Russia and France over the Holy Lands in Palestine. Russian diplomat Alexander Menshikov, who had been sent on special mission to Istanbul in 1853 to restore the privileges inside the Ottoman Empire that Russia had enjoyed for centuries, used Reşid Pasha, who he thought to be favorable to Christians due to the Rose Garden Edict of 1839 but was currently out of office, to talk with the Sultan. Yet, Menshikov failed to realize that Reşid Pasha had remained close with his British ties, especially Ambassador Stratford, and held anti-Russian beliefs. After the presentation of the Russian demands to the Sublime Porte on 5 May 1853 and the subsequent rejection of them on 10 May, Reşid, with the help of Ambassador Stratford as well as that of Menshikov, gained back his position of Foreign Minister. Reşid immediately tried stalling the Russian diplomat in order to ensure the support of his fellow ministers. After another five-day delay, on 15 May the Sublime Porte again rejected the Russian proposition which led to the evacuation of the Russian embassy and the end of Russian-Ottoman diplomacy on 21 May. During this time, Reşid met one-on-one several times with while also writing to both Menshikov and Stratford. In Menshikov's writings, he described Reşid as being almost embarrassed to talk about the unanimous rejection of the Russian proposal and had also given the Russians a Turkish counter proposal, on which he seemed ashamed to present since he explained that he had no ability to revise them. Also according to Menshikov, Reşid had clearly wanted to renew negotiations, but had been advised otherwise by Lord Stratford.\n\nIn late July 1853, diplomats of the four major powers, France, Britain, Austria and Prussia met in Vienna and created their own solution to the Russian-Turkish crisis using a previous French proposal that had already been accepted by the Tsar. The Vienna Note, as it was known, was accepted by the governments of all four of the neutral powers and by Russia, but was met with swift outcry in the Sublime Porte, led by Mustafa Reşid Pasha. The Ottomans had already presented their own ultimatum, drafted by Reşid Pasha, to the Russian Ambassador Nesselrode which reached the Vienna Conference a day after the completion of their proposal. Reşid Pasha was furious that the British governments had gone behind their backs, and were now trying to force them to concede their sovereignty. He would also draft several amendments to the Vienna Note after begging for Stratford's support which stressed the sovereignty of the Ottoman Empire against Russian advances, and only with these changes did he and several other Ottoman diplomats agree to the Vienna Note. Russia, who had been waiting for Ottoman acceptance of the Vienna Note, rejected the Ottoman modifications, and peace seemed to be impossible.\n\nOn 26 September, following the Russian advances in the Balkans, the Sublime Porte held a two-day conference to determine a solution to the Russian problem, whether it be war or diplomacy. While many of the officials were favorable to war, Reşid Pasha cautioned them. He warned that the state was not prepared militarily to fight Russia in a war. However, he also added that it was the Porte's decision even though the European Powers had advised them to refrain from waging war. He also remarked that the European powers are not against war but would need convincing to keep their forces in support of the Ottoman enterprise. When asked about the Christian subjects and their loyalty, Reşid responded that Christians, like Muslims had internal differences and would not support one another solely due to their religion. Although he originally seemed to have been against the war and for diplomacy, by the end of the meetings Reşid is quoted as saying, \"It is better to die with arms in hand than to die with tied hands. God willing, we will be victorious and destroy the harmful treaties as well\". Stratford had even warned Reşid Pasha that England and France would not stand behind the Ottomans if they started the war. However, it appears that Reşid's arguments had persuaded the other officials, and at the end of the conference, Reşid drafted a resolution for war which was sent to and accepted by the Sultan on 30 September and 4 October the Ottoman Empire officially declared War on Russia. According to Certev Pasha, Reşid Pasha wrote this on the purpose of the Crimean War, \"The unique objective of the Sublime Porte, the salutary aim that she entertains, is to come to the end of the war completely protected from any exterior anxiety, in order to busy herself solely with interior regulations to assure the well-well being of the empire by the perfecting of the progressive system of administration, by the just amelioration of the condition of all classes of the subjects, and by the development of her commerce and industry without any impediment; and as we have obviously just seen that the treaty of the year 1841 doesn’t suffice to give her security in the foreign quarter, the Sublime Porte believes it her duty to submit, as of now, to her allies, the necessity of making another treaty to serve as a complement to that one.\"\n\nReşid Pasha immediately immersed himself in gaining European support. On 8 October 1853, only four days following the declaration of war, he petitioned the British and French Ambassadors for their support in the form of naval vessels in the straits of Dardanelles. On 20 October, the requests were fulfilled and both fleets were sailing to the straits. Two days prior, on 18 October, Reşid Pasha had sent orders for the Ottoman forces to commence fighting which began on 23 October. In December, following an Ottoman naval defeat at the bay of Sinop and rumors of Reşid Pasha's peace negotiations, students began revolting in the streets of Istanbul forcing Reşid and many of his followers to hide for their lives. Reşid submitted his resignation immediately but it was not accepted. Reşid Pasha's rivalry with one of his prior proteges, Mehmed Emin Ali, came to fruition during this time period as well. It is believed that Mehmed Ali, who favored the war, had helped instigate the students. Reşid, with the help of Lord Stratford, had Mehmed deposed and even exiled to Kastamonu after it was discovered that he had held large sums of money from the Ottoman government. Over the Spring of 1854, Reşid used his position as Foreign Minister to coordinate Ottoman naval movements with France and Britain. He also was able to officially drag both Britain and France into the war with a military alliance in March 1854. In November of that year, he was rewarded with an appointment as Grand Vizier. However, in May 1855, only a few short months later he was removed from office, leaving him out of the rest of the war and the ensuing peace talks as well.\n\nMustafa Reşid Pasha is credited with playing a leading role in the authorship of the decree that started the Tanzimat era. The Hatt-ı Şerif of Gülhane, known as the \"Edict of Gülhane\" or \"Rose Garden Edict\", was read in the rose garden of the Topkapi Palace among foreign diplomats and the sultan Abdulmecid. The edict was the result of the combination of several powerful circumstances. First, after the death of Sultan Mahmud II in 1838, his son Abdulmecid rose to the throne with completely different ideals from his father; unlike his father, who focused on creating a stronger and more powerful throne, Abdulmecid wanted to enact liberal reforms to bring the Ottoman Empire along the lines of other European monarchies. Secondly, up to this point Mustafa Reşid Pasha had been well versed in Orthodox Islam due to his apostleship to Pertev Pasha. Third, Reşid Pasha and many of the other Porte officials had been well versed in European political thought and institutions due to their extended connections as current and former ambassadors. In fact, on 11 August 1839, while still in London serving as ambassador, Mustafa Reşid Pasha sent a confidential memorandum to then British ambassador Lord Palmerston with whom he had a close relationship. The memorandum was not an Ottoman document but only the personal views of Reşid Pasha. He told Lord Palmerston that reform within the Ottoman Sublime Porte was greatly needed and finally doable following the death of Mahmud II and the rise of the young Abdulmecid, who needed to be led in the right direction. Reşid Pasha also wrote that the protection and security of the people was mandatory if they were to accept the new reforms he wanted to institute, since their previous rejections were based on the fear of further prosecution by the corrupt Sublime Porte. Furthermore, he put forth that European support and cooperation was mandatory and essential for the preservation of the Ottoman state. All of these thoughts would later appear in the Rose Garden Edict only a few months later. His main goal was to ensure the power of the sultanate while at the same time establishing a strong central bureaucracy within the Sublime Porte to indefinitely postpone the disintegration of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nDuring this same time period, Reşid Pasha also conferred with Austrian diplomat Prince Metternich on government institutional reform. Another circumstance was the ongoing crisis with Muhammad Ali of Egypt. The Ottoman Empire was at this time also trying to ensure the support of the Great Powers. The Hatt-ı Şerif of Gülhane, Reşid hoped, would gain foreign and especially British support for the Ottoman Empire due to its better treatment of its subjects, especially the Christian raya. By the end of the summer 1839, the Sublime Porte held a meeting attended by Reşid Pasha, Grand Vizier Koca Hüsrev Mehmed Pasha, and other major bureaucrats. During the meeting, after reading a memorandum from the Sultan, the officials created a petition for the Sultan in which they called for the protection of individual rights and property and the end of the corruption within the government, while all new laws were to remain under the principles of shar’ia law. This petition would become the Hatt-ı Şerif of Gülhane, or the \"Edict of Gülhane.\"\n\nMustafa Reşid Pasha is credited with being the father of the Tanzimat Reforms, which lasted from 1839 with the reading of the Rose Garden Edict, to 1876 and the creation of the constitution. During this period, Reşid Pasha would serve six times as Grand Vizier and several times as Foreign Minister. Reşid thought that the Ottoman existence was based on four pillars: Islam, the Osman dynasty, the hüküment which was the Ottoman government, and the existence of the capital, Istanbul. He wrote \"We do not possess the necessary [military] power to maintain the territorial integrity of our state. Consequently, it is our [geographical] position which shall help us preserve [that integrity]. [In order to do so] we must build a good administration. The foreign states shall not leave us in peace. All states aspire to possess Constantinople but the city is indivisible. If we are not able to produce a good administration [the foreign powers] will establish a joint administration [in Constantinople] too\".\n\nImmediately following the reading of the Hatti-Sherif of Gülhane, Reşid Pasha presented the sultan with two propositions concerning the Meclis-i Vâlâ (Supreme Council of Judicial Ordinances, which had become law on 8 December 1839). First, he wanted to combine the Dar-z Şura-yz Bab-z Âli, which advised the Office of the Foreign Minister, with the Meclis-i Vâlâ, so that there was only one institution advising the Sublime Porte eliminating the frequent contradictions. The Meclis-i Vâlâ, would also be based out of the Sublime Porte compound, indicating the major influence the Tanzimat reformers would have over the drafting of new legislature. Also in 1841, Reşid Pasha renamed the new army, which had replaced the Janissaries after their fall in 1826, the Asakir-i Nizamiye-i Şihane. Reşid Pasha also created a new court of justice within the also newly established Ministry of Commerce, which he hoped would promote foreign trade with the Ottoman Empire. The new court would judge on commercial disputes. At the same time he created a new commercial code dealing with bankruptcies, partnerships and bills of exchange which had largely been based on French models. Upon questioning by the ulema, Reşid responded that Islam had no pertinence to these codes leading to his immediate removal from office as Foreign Minister.\n\nStarting in 1846, during Reşid Pasha's first two terms as Grand Vizier, the Tanzimat Reforms were at their peak. He focused on creating liberal economic policies, again established commercial courts and laws based on French models, as well as finally abolished slavery and the slave trade within the Empire. Reşid also strove to improve the educational system. In 1846 he created the Meclis-i Maarif, a committee of education that was designed to reduce the ulema's influence on education, essentially creating a secular system of learning. In 1847, the Sublime Porte established several middle schools as well as a school for teachers in 1848. In 1852, he established an Academy for Sciences, Endjümen-i Daniş, which had been modeled on a French academy. Through this institution, Reşid Pasha hoped to conglomerate an extension of texts that could later be used when an Ottoman University would be created. He also sought the simplification of the Turkish language, which can be seen in his writings about the Academy for Sciences, in which he states, \"…insistence is [hereby] placed on the drafting of scientific and technological books written in a simple style and fitted to the needs of popular intelligence so as to provide the means of widening and completing its instruction.\" In 1846, Reşid ordered for the establishment of an archival system in the Sublime Porte, called the Hazine-yi Ewraḳ.\n\nDuring his third stint as Grand Vizier which only lasted six months, again reformed the Meclis-I Vâlâ which he stripped of its powers regarding legislation. He create the Meclis-i Tanzimat, or the Council of Reforms, to take over that responsibility. It was officially charged with discussing reforms that would lead to the prosperity of the state.\n\nThe Islahat Firmani, also known as the \"Islâhat Hatt-ı Hümâyûnu\" or the Ottoman Reform Edict of 1856, was written in 1856 by Britain and France with very little consultation with Ottoman officials. Reşid Pasha, at the time was out of office, so he had no influence on the edict. However, with its proclamation, he immediately came out staunchly against the edict. He believed that it was a complete overstep of foreign governments against the sovereignty and principles of the Ottoman government.\n\nWith only an interruption of four months in 1848, Mustafa Reşid Pasha served as Grand Vizier from 1846 to 1852. These years proved to be his most productive in establishing his Tanzimat reforms. He would be disposed under foreign, especially French, pressure in January 1852 due to his strong bias to Britain.\n\nOnly two months later he was reinstalled as Grand Vizier but only to be removed once again in August, due to a rift between him and the commander of the Imperial Arsenal.\n\nDuring the Crimean War, after his successful negotiation of an alliance with Britain and France, he was reinstalled as Grand Vizier in November 1854. During this short stint as Grand Vizier, again reformed the He was displaced again less than a year later due to his position against the Suez Canal which upset the French who again pressured the Sultan to dismiss Reşid Pasha. This dismissal resulted in his exclusion from the treaty talks following the Crimean War.\n\nIn November 1856 due to British support, Reşid Pasha returned again to the Grand Vizierate for a fifth time. For the third time, he was displaced at the hands of the French who disagreed with his position against the formation of a Rumanian state in the Principalities towards the end of July 1857.\n\nIt was not too long before Mustafa Reşid Pasha was appointed Grand Vizier for the sixth and final time on 22 October 1857. This appointment only lasted a few months, when he suffered a heart attack and died on 7 January 1858.\n\nMustafa Reşid Pasha married twice during his lifetime and had a total of five sons, one with his first wife and four with his second.\n\nHe died of a heart attack on 7 January 1858 in Constantinople.\n\nAlthough many of the reforms introduced under Reşid and the Tanzimat failed to take hold, his influence was widespread. The famed Ottoman poet İbrahim Şinasi (another principal author of Tanzimat) called Reşid an \"apostle of civilization\" and \"president of virtuous people\" (Millennium 65). After Reşid Pasha's death, his protégés Fuad Pasha and Mehmed Emin Ali Pasha, as well as Cevdet Pasha, continued their service to the state along with Reşid's many sons. Mehmed Ali and Fuad led the Tanzimat reforms following their leader's death. Reşid Pasha led the strengthening of the bureaucracy of the Porte while also starting the legal equality of the Empire's subjects. However, poor funds as well as inefficient leaders handicapped many of his installments. Nevertheless, his ideology was ever persistent though in the Ottoman transition from a patriarchal government to a legal one.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853308", "title": "Paris Airport", "text": "Paris Airport\n\nParis Airport may refer to:\n\n\nAirports serving Paris, France:\n\nAirports in other places named Paris:\n"}
{"id": "1853314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853314", "title": "Jagmohan Dalmiya", "text": "Jagmohan Dalmiya\n\nJagmohan Dalmiya (30 May 1940 – 20 September 2015) was an Indian cricket administrator and businessman from the city of Kolkata. He was the President of the Board of Control for Cricket in India as well as the Cricket Association of Bengal. He had previously served as the President of the International Cricket Council.\n\nDalmiya was born into a Marwari family of the \"Baniya\" (tradesman) caste, originally hailing from Chirawa, Jhunjhunu district in Rajasthan and based in Kolkata for many decades. His father, Arjun Prasad Dalmiya, was a businessman based in Kolkata. Dalmiya studied at the Scottish Church College, Calcutta. He started his career as a wicketkeeper and also opened the batting, playing for one of the leading cricket clubs in Calcutta. After his father's death, Dalmiya took charge of his father's firm ML Dalmiya and Co at the age of 19. The firm constructed Calcutta's Birla Planetarium in 1963.\n\nDalmiya was married to Chandralekha Dalmiya (née Ghose), who was born into a land-owning Bengali family of Pathuriaghata belonging to the Kayastha caste. They were blessed with a son and a daughter. His son, Avishek, took over from his father both in business and at the BCCI. Dalmiya's daughter, Vaishali (born 1969), In 2016, shortly after her father's death, joined the Trinamool Congress, was immediately given the ticket to contest the assembly election from the Bally constituency, and was subsequently elected to the state assembly.\n\nDalmiya joined the Board of Control for Cricket in India (BCCI) in 1979 as a representative of Cricket Association of Bengal, and became its treasurer in 1983 (the year India won the Cricket World Cup). Along with bureaucrat Inderjit Singh Bindra and cricket administrator NKP Salve, Dalmiya proposed the hosting of 1987 World Cup in the Indian subcontinent. The proposal received opposition from England, which had hosted all three previous World Cups. However, in 1984, with support votes from Associate nations, the proposal passed through International Cricket Council (ICC) with a huge majority. The 1987 World Cup was the first time the Cricket World Cup was held outside England, and paved way for rotation system for hosting the tournament. Dalmiya ensured the final was played at Kolkata, renovating its clubhouse in time.\n\nDalmiya proposed the re-entry of South Africa to international cricket in 1991 and ensured South Africa's three-match ODI tour of India the same year. Dalmiya's role is said to have been important, as the then ICC President Clyde Walcott was not in favor of discussing South Africa's re-entry to cricket. In November 1991, South Africa played their first international match since their suspension from international cricket in 1970, an ODI at Kolkata's Eden Gardens in front of over 100,000 spectators. This match also marked South Africa's return to international sports ending their sporting boycott.\n\nIn 1993, Dalmiya along with Bindra won a legal battle against broadcaster Doordarshan for selling the television rights of cricket matches in India. The outcome of the legal battle was that Doordarshan had to pay the BCCI for acquiring the rights to televise Indian matches. In 1995, the rights were ruled by the Supreme Court of India as a commodity owned by BCCI and could be sold to the highest bidder. The ruling allowed BCCI generate more revenue and strengthened BCCI's position in the global marketplace.\n\nWith the help of Dalmiya and the then BCCI President Madhavrao Scindia, the Indian subcontinent secured the hosting rights for the 1996 World Cup, turning the tables on the favorites England. The victory was described in \"The Times\" as, \"Asian tiger twists Lord's by the tail.\" However, Australia and West Indies refused to play in terror-scarred Sri Lanka during the tournament. Dalmiya, who was then the Secretary of BCCI, created a united India-Pakistan team (called the Wills XI) in a matter of days to play a goodwill match against Sri Lanka in Sri Lanka. With a record-breaking deal for TV rights being signed for the World Cup, the tournament went on to become a major commercial success.\n\nIn 1996, Dalmiya received 23 votes to 13 for Australia's Malcolm Gray in an election for Chairman's post of the ICC, but failed to attain the two-thirds majority necessary under the ICC Constitution. However, in 1997 he was unanimously elected President of the ICC (as the position had been renamed), the office of which he held for three years. He thus became the first Asian and the first non-cricketer at the helm of ICC. During his tenure as President, Dalmiya's support was instrumental in awarding Bangladesh the Test status. Bangladesh went on to play their first Test match in November 2000 against India at Dhaka. He had also supported Bangladesh in winning the hosting rights of the first-ever ICC Knockout Trophy in 1998. He brought about a major overhaul in the ICC and is credited with helping ICC generate more revenue. The profits made from World Cup were directed to the ICC instead of the host nations, strengthening ICC's power over the World Cup. Since the 1999 edition of the tournament, the World Cup has been officially called \"ICC World Cup\". When Dalmiya took over as ICC President in 1997, ICC had funds of £16000 and when his term ended in 2000, it had over $15 million.\n\nAfter his stint as ICC President, Dalmiya was elected the President of BCCI for the first time in 2001. Later the same year, he was involved in a major row with the ICC over what was called the 'Denness Affair' in which the ICC match referee and former England captain Mike Denness found Sachin Tendulkar guilty of a technical breach of the rules (misreported in the Indian media as an allegation of ball-tampering) and gave him a fine and suspended sentence, while also banning Virender Sehwag for one match for claiming a catch off a bump ball. There was a major argument about the issue and questions were asked in the Indian Parliament. Dalmiya demanded a right of appeal from the ICC, which was refused, and also demanding that Denness be replaced as match referee for the following test or it would be cancelled. Ultimately, as Denness was not permitted to referee the final match of the series by the BCCI and the UCBSA, the match was stripped of Test status by the ICC. Contracts to Indian team players, and pensions to former cricketers and umpires were first awarded in 2003 when Dalmiya was the Board's President.\n\nIn the 2005 BCCI board elections, Dalmiya's candidate Ranbir Singh Mahendra was ousted by Indian government minister Sharad Pawar as the head cricket official of India. Later the following year, Dalmiya was expelled from the board for alleged misappropriation of funds and refusing to provide certain documents. However, in May 2007, when he challenged the decision in the Bombay High Court and then the Supreme Court, he was exonerated as the BCCI was unable to prove their charge of financial irregularities against him.\n\nIn July 2010, the Calcutta High Court dismissed charges against Dalmiya, and allowed him to contest the presidency of the Cricket Association of Bengal, which he subsequently won.\n\nIn June 2013, Dalmiya was appointed as the interim president of the BCCI after N. Srinivasan stepped aside till the probe on Srinivasan's son-in-law's alleged involvement in spot-fixing in the 2013 Indian Premier League was completed. Srinivasan resumed the presidency in October 2013. On 2 March 2015, Dalmiya returned as BCCI President after a 10-year gap replacing Srinivasan.\n\nIn 1996, the BBC described Dalmiya as one of the world's top six sports executives. In 2005, he was awarded the International Journal of the History of Sports Achievement award for administrative excellence in global sport.\n\nDalmiya was often cited in the media as the man responsible for commercializing cricket and making BCCI the richest board in the world. He was also credited with breaking Australia and England's \"monopoly\" of ICC and establishing the presence of Indian subcontinent in international cricket. He was nicknamed in the media the \"Machiavelli of Indian cricket\", the \"master of realpolitik\", the \"king of comebacks\".\n\nAustralian cricketer and commentator Ian Chappell has said of Dalmiya: \"He has a vision for the game’s progress that I haven’t heard enunciated by any other so-called leader among cricket officials.\" \n\nDalmiya began his second term as BCCI president in March 2015. But he was ailing since then, and his health deteriorated further in September. On 17 September 2015, he suffered a massive heart attack and was admitted to the B.M. Birla Hospital in Kolkata. He remained at the Intensive Care Unit and a five-member medical board was set up for his treatment. He died on 20 September 2015 after he had also undergone a coronary angiography. The cause of death was reported to be gastrointestinal bleeding and organ failure.\n\nAfter his death, Dalmiya's eyes were donated to Vanmukta Eye Bank in the city. On 21 September 2015, Dalmiya's body was taken from his house in Alipore to the Cricket Association of Bengal office at the Eden Gardens. Several dignitaries arrived in Kolkata, including former India skipper Sourav Ganguly, to pay their last respects to him.\n\nAmong those who sent condolences for Dalmiya's death were President of India Pranab Mukherjee, Prime Minister Narendra Modi, Chief Minister of West Bengal Mamata Banerjee, current and former cricketers, ICC and various national cricket boards.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853317", "title": "Ontario's Drive Clean", "text": "Ontario's Drive Clean\n\nOntario's Drive Clean is an automobile emissions control program introduced by the Government of Ontario and came into effect April 1999. The program was initially intended to weed out vehicles producing unrestrained amounts of particulate emissions contributing to smog and increasing pollution. It applies only to vehicles registered in southern parts of Ontario from Windsor to Ottawa due to the volume of vehicles in that part of the province. It is administered by privately owned facilities (such as auto repair shops and vehicle dealerships) that have been accredited by Ontario's Ministry of the Environment and Climate Change (MOECC) and the Ministry of Transportation (MTO).\n\nAt its inception, the program required light duty vehicles under 4,500 kg (cars, SUV, light trucks) that were over three years old to have an emissions test completed every two years (vehicles manufactured on even years are tested on odd years and vehicles manufactured on odd years are tested on even years) before the vehicle's owner or lessor can renew their licence plate. Vehicles that were manufactured up to and including 1988 are exempt as new vehicle emissions standards were coming into effect beginning in 1989. The minimum age for testing has been increased twice since the beginning of the program. As of 2011, vehicles that are over seven years old require emissions testing, however vehicles manufactured before 1988 are exempt from the test. On September 28, 2018, the Ontario government announced the cancellation of the Drive Clean program and instead focusing on heavy duty vehicles; the change became effective on April 1, 2019.\n\nHeavy duty trucks and buses are also covered by Drive Clean program. They are tested annually once the vehicle is more than one year old, with no age limit to testing; A 1975 diesel powered truck or bus would still be tested so long as it was still registered. All vehicles on Ontario roads are further monitored by a 'smog patrol' team for MOECC and can be stopped at random and roadside tested. The Smog Patrol team drive vehicles that are equipped with mobile testing equipment to perform roadside tests. The Smog Patrol can also perform a visual inspection to ensure all emissions control equipment is in place and functioning as originally built (tampering with or removing this equipment is an offence separate from Drive Clean but under the same Regulation). Some registrants circumvent an emissions test by registering their vehicles to addresses outside the Drive Clean testing areas. Circumventing an emissions test in this way is an offence and could result in a ticket or summons and could also result in licence plates being seized.\n\nThe Drive Clean program has undergone several changes since its introduction in 1999. In 2003, standards for light-duty vehicles were tightened to require 11.5% lower vehicle emissions than the most stringent American Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) recommended standards. On November 18, 2005, the Minister of the Environment, announced several proposed changes to the Drive Clean program. Standards were tightened by a further 11.5%. Newer vehicles, which have a very high pass rate due to better emission control technology off the assembly line, were exempted from the program until they are seven years old.\n\nCritics have long argued against emissions testing, however the cost of equipment purchased to perform emissions tests in 1998/1999 would not be fully amortized until 2014 and therefore the program has been continued despite calls for its cancellation. Ontario is now the only province in Canada requiring emissions testing on its vehicles, with British Columbia phasing out their program December 31, 2014. \n\nIn 2012, Ontario's Auditor General determined that the Drive Clean program, which was supposed to be revenue neutral had a surplus and was expected to have a surplus of $50M by 2018. As a result, the Government of Ontario reduced the price of emissions testing from $35 CAD to $30 CAD.\n\nIn 2014, testing methods were changed from tailpipe emissions testing to using the On Board Diagnostics (OBDII) port under the driver's side dashboard. OBDII was introduced in 1996 and became standard in 1997 on all new vehicles. Older vehicles that are not equipped with the OBDII port continue to be tested under the older tailpipe emissions platform.\n\nDrive Clean's emissions test results have been shown to be unreliable in surveys carried out by the media such as in-depth work done by \"The Hamilton Spectator\", the Fraser Institute, and consumer advocacy groups such as the Automobile Protection Association. In APA surveys, it was shown that the same car can have extremely variable results in test results (up to 800 percent in one survey), even at the same garage or on the same day with no work being carried out on the car. In 2004, the Ontario Auditor General reported on myriad cases of fraud within the Drive Clean program, such as test facilities (garages) that, for a fee, would test a clean car and report those results instead. Other test facilities would fail a well-tuned car to generate additional work. For these reasons and others, consumer reports suggest drivers try another garage if their car fails a Drive Clean test, before proceeding with expensive repairs.\n\nOntario's Drive Clean program provides no financial assistance to low-income drivers. This contrasts with otherwise similar mandatory emissions testing programs such as those in California, Texas and Arizona. Critics of Drive Clean, including the province's own consulting firm, the Eastern Research Group, have strongly recommended that financial assistance should be provided. The repair cost limit is about to triple since the program's inception (from $200 to $450, and a proposed $600 RCL) while emissions standards have simultaneously become 23% more stringent leading to a greater percentage of vehicles that fail emissions tests. The social welfare effect is similar to that of a regressive tax, one imposed on drivers who cannot afford newer cars. In 2006, some unofficial current estimates put the total cost of the program to Ontario motorists close to 2 billion dollars. The most recent verifiable figure, $1.1 billion (in 2004), consists of some $435 million in Drive Clean test fees, and about $690 million for repairs to vehicles that failed. Costs for \"preliminary\" repairs to vehicles in order to qualify for Drive Clean tests have never been included in these figures, such as repair or replacement of corroded exhaust system components. Drive Clean test facilities are free to refuse to test any vehicle until such preliminary repairs are made.\n\nThe Ontario government also has a program to purchase and scrap old polluting cars called Car Heaven. This program is sponsored by General Motors and Exxon-Mobil among others. It is structured in a way which will cost taxpayers little, and acts as a small incentive for people to scrap older cars. This has the effect of boosting prices for remaining used cars by reducing supply, making it somewhat more expensive for low-income persons to drive in Ontario. Currently, the average car donation to Car Heaven is 16 years old (model year 1990-1991). The typical vehicle donated to Car Heaven would otherwise have been on the road for three more years.\n\nDrive Clean's impact on air pollution in Ontario has been contested. Since its creation in 1999 the Ontario Medical Association and the Canadian Medical Association have each released estimates of the number of illnesses caused by air pollution in Ontario. The Ontario Medical Association estimated in 2005 that total air pollution (from all sources) would cause some 5,800 deaths and 17,000 hospital admissions that year. It also estimated that the direct health care costs of air pollution in Ontario were about $507 million, and the total economic cost of air pollution to be about $7.8 billion. However, three years later the Canadian Medical Association released a report that estimated that in 2008 there would be 4,597 hospital admissions in Ontario caused by air pollution, of which around 1,178 would result in acute premature death. It also suggested that in the year 2031 there would be 2,222 deaths in Ontario caused by air pollution, compared to 7,774 hospital admissions. In addition, the number of smog advisory days in Ontario peaked in 2005 at 53 days. In 2013, there were only two smog advisory days in Ontario. In addition, there were no smog days reported in 2015, according to a report by Air Quality Ontario \n\nIn late 2004, Norm Sterling, who was the Environment Minister in the Progressive Conservative premier Mike Harris's cabinet, stated that Drive Clean had already had its greatest impact on air pollution and had served its purpose. Sterling is often referred to as the founder of Drive Clean. Drive Clean can only address a small fraction of the total automobile emissions problem, because all internal combustion vehicles burn fuels which ultimately pollute the air (including most so-called \"alternative\" fuels).\n\nThe Greenpeace co-founder, Robert Hunter, wrote in 1999 that Drive Clean \"has turned out to be an agonizing bureaucratic nightmare that hits drivers with what is basically another tax and a huge hassle, while accomplishing -- in Environmental Commissioner Eva Ligeti's assessment -- 'minimal benefits.'\"\n\nCritics of Drive Clean, who included Hunter and many other environmentalists argue that a greater long-term impact on overall air quality would result from reinvesting the same provincial resources towards encouraging low-emitter technologies, some of which offer electric power as an alternative to 100% internal combustion propulsion. There has been a call for the Ontario government to admit to Drive Clean's minimal impact, and to begin promoting low-emissions vehicles such as hybrid cars, plug-in hybrid electric vehicles, zero-emission vehicles such as the ill-fated General Motors EV1, and personal transports like the Segway PT. Unlike over 40 U.S. states, the Ontario government has banned low-speed electric vehicles citing \"safety concerns\". On March 23, 2006, Ontario's McGuinty government doubled their former $1,000 ceiling sales tax rebate on hybrid cars such as the Toyota Prius up to a maximum of $2,000, but stopped short of making such vehicles PST-free.\n\nPoliticians Norm Sterling and Howard Hampton have argued that diverting the same provincial funds used for paying for Drive Clean towards improving existing public transit networks might have yielded a far greater overall environmental benefit. Proper funding may have also acted to reduce the well-documented disproportional fare increases seen in Toronto from the Toronto Transit Commission (TTC) in recent years. The TTC has argued in the past that with riders covering more than 80 per cent of the cost of operating the TTC, it is by far the least-funded mass transit system in North America and one of the least-funded in the world. Another lost opportunity to reduce smog was the quiet shut-down of the Hamilton Street Railway's all-electric trolleybus routes in 1992. The Ontario government has however invested toward expanding public transit in Ontario. It agreed to fund a variety of transit projects under The Big Move.\n\nOn June 7, 2010, the Ministry of Environment posted a request for proposals on MERX Canadian Public Tenders service. The modernized Drive Clean program, which was fully implemented on January 1, 2013, is intended to provide significant benefits by implementing OBD2 testing. Since January 1, 2013, the OBD2 testing has led to an average of 10% failure rate. On 1 April 2017, the $30 fee for a drive clean test was eliminated, however if failed the first time, $17.50 will be paid for subsequent tests. Vehicles manufactured before 1988 are exempt from the test.\n\nOn September 28, 2018, the Ontario government under Doug Ford announced the cancellation of the Drive Clean program and instead focusing on heavy duty vehicles; the change became effective on April 1, 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853322", "title": "Ajit Wadekar", "text": "Ajit Wadekar\n\nAjit Laxman Wadekar (; 1 April 1941 – 15 August 2018) was an Indian international cricketer who played for the Indian national team between 1966 and 1974. Described as an \"aggressive batsman\", Wadekar made his first-class debut in 1958, before making his foray into international cricket in 1966. He batted at number three and was considered to be one of the finest slip fielders. Wadekar also captained the Indian cricket team which won series in the West Indies and England in 1971(first victory of Indian team in test cricket outside of India was recorded in 1968 under the captaincy of Tiger Pataudi against New Zealand). The Government of India honoured him with the Arjuna Award (1967) and Padmashri (1972), India's fourth highest civilian honour.\n\nBorn in Bombay, Wadekar's father wished him to study Mathematics so that he could become an engineer, but Wadekar instead preferred to play cricket. He made his first-class debut for Bombay in 1958–59, before making his international debut in Test in December 1966, against the West Indies at the Brabourne Stadium in Bombay. After that he became a part of the regular team, and went on to play 37 Test matches for India between 1966 and 1974, generally batting at number three.\n\nWadekar was appointed the captain of Bombay, and soon was made the captain of the Indian cricket team in 1971, leading a side that included players like Sunil Gavaskar, Gundappa Viswanath, Farokh Engineer, and the Indian spin quartet that included Bishen Bedi, E.A.S. Prasanna, Bhagwat Chandrasekhar and Srinivasaraghavan Venkataraghavan. India won over five matches in the West Indies in the early 1970s, and then defeated England over three. He led India to a third successive series victory, beating England cricket team again, 2–1 in a five-match series in 1972–73.\n\nWadekar continued to be the captain of the Indian team that toured England in 1974. He represented India in its first ever One Day International (ODI) game during that tour. Batting at number three, Wadekar made 67 runs, but still ended on the losing side. He scored 73 runs in his ODI career at an average of 36.50 with a strike rate of 81.11. Following India's dismal performance in the series, he retired from international cricket. After that tour Wadekar played just one more First-class match before retiring from all forms of cricket.\n\nWadekar also served as the manager of the Indian cricket team in the 1990s, alongside captain Mohammad Azharuddin. He is one of the few Indians to represent the country as Test player, captain, coach/manager and the chairman of selectors. Lala Amarnath and Chandu Borde are the only other players to achieve this distinction.\n\nOn 15 August 2018, Wadekar died due to illness at Jaslok Hospital, Mumbai, at the age of 77. On 17 August, he was cremated with full state honours in the Shivaji Park crematorium in Mumbai. Many cricketers, as well as cricket fans in large numbers, attended his funeral.\n\nWadekar was honoured with the Arjuna Award, instituted by the Government of India to recognise sporting talents. In 1972, he received the Padmashri, India's fourth highest civilian honour. Other awards include CK Nayudu Lifetime achievement award, Sportsperson of the Year, and the Castrol Lifetime Achievement award.\n"}
{"id": "1853326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853326", "title": "Koukonesi", "text": "Koukonesi\n\nKoukonesi (Κουκονήσι) is a small island, situated in the Moudros harbour, west of Poliochne, on the island of Lemnos in the Aegean Sea. The island is an important archaeological site. The best preserved settlements found on Koukonesi are from the Middle Bronze Age, 2000 BC—1650 BC. The findings have shown that Koukonesi's inhabitants had close commercial relations with Asia Minor, other Aegean Sea islands and mainland Greece. Greek archaeologists also discovered Mycenaean ceramics of the late 13th century BC which may prove that a permanent settlement was established around the epoch of the Trojan war.\n"}
{"id": "1853332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853332", "title": "Centre Democrats (Sweden)", "text": "Centre Democrats (Sweden)\n\nThe Centre Democrats () was a minor political party in Sweden, founded in 1974. While the party has described itself as a \"centre alternative,\" it has been described externally as a right-wing populist party. It agitated against immigration from the 1980s, but toned down the issue in the 2000s, focusing more on local, social and economic issues. The party had some local representation from the 1970s, until 2006, when it lost its final local seat.\n\nThe party was founded in June 1974 by the lead of John Görnebrand of Simrishamn as an alliance of multiple local parties in Scania. It was mainly modeled after the Danish Centre Democrats, including influences from Mogens Glistrup and his Progress Party. The party won several local municipal seats in elections during the 1970s and 1980s, and was even represented in the municipal government in Båstad in a cooperation with the Moderate Party after the 1979 election. Before the 1982 election, Harry Franzén was elected as new party chairman, and the party started to focus considerably more on immigration issues. The party began speaking against immigrant native language education and called the refugee policy a \"travel agency mafia\" for refugees. During the Refugee controversy in Sjöbo, the party supported the side of Sven-Olle Olsson.\n\nRight after the 1988 election, the Centre Democrats split in two factions, led by Harry Franzén and John Nielsen. Nielsen broke away in early 1989 with the local Svedala chapter, and turned it into a local chapter of the Progress Party. By the 1991 election, he had however gone back to the Centre Democrats. In turn, many leading members of the Centre Democrats went over to New Democracy by the same election. By 1997, the party had just around 300 members. For the 2006 election the party lost its final local representation, a seat it had held in Svalöv.\n\n1976 election; 2 mandates in Simrishamn and 2 in Båstad.\n\n1979 election; 4 mandates in Simrishamn, 3 in Båstad, 1 in Rättvik and 4 in Svalöv.\n\n1982 election; 3 mandates in Simrishamn.\n\n1985 election; 2 mandates in Simrishamn.\n\n1988 election; 3 mandates in Simrishamn, 1 in Båstad, 2 in Svedala and 3 in Svalöv.\n\n1991 election; 6 mandates in Simrishamn and 4 in Svalöv.\n\n1994 election; 5 mandates in Simrishamn and 3 in Svalöv.\n\n1998 election; 5 mandates in Simrishamn and 3 in Svalöv.\n\n2002 election; 1 mandate in Svalöv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853333", "title": "Kinokawa River", "text": "Kinokawa River\n\nThe is a river in Nara and Wakayama Prefecture in Japan. It is called in Nara. It is 136 km long and has a watershed of 1,660 km².\n\nThe river flows from Mount Ōdaigahara to the west. It pours into Kii Channel at Wakayama city.\n\nThe boundary between Nara prefecture and Mie prefecture is designated as the source. \nThe rainy season helped to create an Alluvial plain. The course of the river often changes, with frequent floods.\n\nThe JR West Wakayama Line partly runs in parallel with the river.\n\nAbundant water was useful for human settlement.\n\nIt was an area where the Koyasan, Kokawa and Mitsui temples were strong; centralized rule was impossible, until Nobunaga Oda suppressed the Saika Ikki.\n\nThe novelist Sawako Ariyoshi titled one of her books after the river.\n"}
{"id": "1853339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853339", "title": "Kinokawa", "text": "Kinokawa\n\nKinokawa may refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1853340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853340", "title": "European Workers Party", "text": "European Workers Party\n\nThe European Workers' Party (, EAP) is a minor political party in Sweden without parliamentary representation. The party is the Swedish section of the LaRouche Movement.\n\nThe movement was established as the European Labour Committees (ELC) in 1974 by two American LaRouchians, William \"Bill\" Jones and Michael Vale. Bill Jones had lived in Sweden since 1968, as an apparent Vietnam war deserter. The movement started to build its organization around the young Swedish student Kerstin Tegin, later Tegin-Gaddy, and her American husband to-be Clifford G. Gaddy. However, the party never became much bigger than a handful of people. During this period, Sweden was one of the few countries that openly harboured and encouraged American GIs in Vietnam to defect, and it is often insinuated that EAP was set up in Sweden by the CIA in order to label the defectors as left-wing extremists.\n\nThe EAP launched campaigns in the 1980s based on what was described by the Swedish government as \"extreme hatred of [Swedish PM Olof] Palme\". A 2002 government report stated:\nIt became increasingly common in the media to characterize the EAP as \"fascist\" or \"right-wing extremist\". One reason for this was the pronounced anti-sovietism [of the party], its extreme hatred of Olof Palme, and its adherence to anti-semitic jargon and conspiracy theories.\nAfter the Olof Palme assassination in 1986, the group was for a time suspected by the police of being connected to the murder, although this theory was soon dropped. Victor Gunnarsson, who had been a member for a year before being kicked out in 1985, was arrested and questioned by police about the assassination before being released. Dean Andromidas, from the LaRouche organisation's\n'Executive Intelligence Review' claims there was a radio broadcast on Swedish National Radio in August 1992 by Herbert Brehmer, former leading operative of the East German Stasi and author of \"Auftrag: Irreführung. Wie die Stasi Politik im Westen machte\". Andromidas claimed that Brehmer \"explained how his Department 10, responsible for disinformation, put into motion a preplanned disinformation operation to pin the blame for the murder of Palme on LaRouche and his Swedish associates.\" According to another LaRouche associate, Jeffrey Steinberg, South African interests lie behind the murder and the EAP was to blame for the murder. LaRouche issued a statement on the allegations made against his organization.\n\nHowever, as a result of the hard pressure put on the EAP after the Olof Palme assassination, the party was thrown into disarray, numerous members left the party, the party left its Stockholm headquarters and more or less went underground, and leaders of the party - the Gaddys - abandoned the party and left Sweden for the USA, where they eventually pursued successful academic careers.\n\nThe Paris office of the party received minor damage in a bomb blast in April 1986.\n\nThe EAP had its best election in 1985 when they received 369 votes.\n\nIn the 1990s, the party kept a relatively low profile, but it has resurfaced in the early 21st century and ran for national parliament and the local assembly of Botkyrka in the Swedish election in September 2006. The party only received 83 votes (0.0015%) in the election for the national parliament, and 64 votes (0.16%) in the local election in Botkyrka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853344", "title": "Floor area ratio", "text": "Floor area ratio\n\nFloor area ratio (FAR) is the ratio of a building's total floor area (gross floor area) to the size of the piece of land upon which it is built. It is often used as one of the regulations in city planning along with the building-to-land ratio. The terms can also refer to limits imposed on such a ratio through zoning.\n\nAs a formula FAR = \n\nFloor Area ratio is sometimes called floor space ratio (FSR), floor space index (FSI), site ratio or plot ratio.\n\nThe difference between FAR and FSI is that the first is a ratio, while the latter is an index.\nIndex numbers are values expressed as a percentage of a single base figure. Thus an FAR of 1.5 is translated as an FSI of 150%.\n\nThe terms most commonly used for this measurement vary from one country or region to the next.\n\nIn Australia \"floor space ratio\" (FSR) is used in New South Wales and \"plot ratio\" in Western Australia.\n\nIn India \"floor space index\" (FSI) and \"floor area ratio\" (FAR) are both used.\n\nIn the United Kingdom and Hong Kong both \"plot ratio\" and \"site ratio\" are used.\n\nIn Singapore the terms \"plot ratio\" and \"gross plot ratio\" (GPR) are more commonly used.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, \"floor space ratio\" (FSR) and \"floor area ratio\" (FAR) are both used.\n\nUse ratios are used as a measure of the density of the site being developed. The ratio is generated by dividing the building area by the parcel area, using the same units.\n\nOne of the purposes of the 1916 zoning ordinance of New York City was to prevent tall buildings from obstructing too much light and air. The 1916 zoning ordinance sought to control building size by regulating height and setback requirements for towers. In 1961, a revision to the zoning ordinance introduced the concept of floor area ratio (FAR). Buildings built before 1961 often have FARs that would be unachievable today, such as the Empire State Building which has an FAR of 25 - meaning that it earns considerably greater rent than a newer building on the same land could hope for.\n\nThe floor area ratio (FAR) can be used in zoning to limit urban density. While it directly limits building density, indirectly it also limits the number of people that a building can hold, without controlling a building's external shape.\n\nFor example, if lot must adhere to a 0.1 FAR, then the total area of all floors in all buildings on the lot must be no more than one-tenth the area of the parcel itself. In other words, if the lot was 10,000 sq. ft, then the total floor area of all floors in all buildings mustn't exceed 1,000 sq. ft.\n\nAn architect can plan for either a single-story building consuming the entire allowable area in one floor, or a multi-story building that rises higher above the plane of the land, but which must consequently result in a smaller footprint than would a single-story building of the same total floor area. By combining the horizontal and vertical limits into a single figure, some flexibility is permitted in building design, while achieving a hard limit on at least one measure of overall size. One advantage to fixing this parameter, as opposed to others such as height, width, or length, is that floor area correlates well with other considerations relevant to zoning regulation, such as total parking that would be required for an office building, total number of units that might be available for residential use, total load on municipal services, etc. The amounts of these things tend to be constant for a given total floor area, regardless of how that area is distributed horizontally and vertically. Thus, many jurisdictions have found it unnecessary to include hard height limitations when using floor area ratio calculations.\n\nCommon exclusions to the total calculation of square footage for the purpose of floor area ratio (FAR) include unoccupied areas such as mechanical equipment floors, basements, stair towers, elevator shafts, and parking garages.\n\nJapan has extensively adopted the floor area ratio in the zoning system since 1970.\n\nIn India FAR and FSI are both used. FAR regulations vary from city to city and generally it is from 1.3 to 3.25. In Mumbai 1.33 is the norm but higher FSI is allowed along the Metro rail line and slum areas like Dharavi. In Bangalore, 40 feet streets allow only an FAR of 1.75 but 100 feet streets allow 3.25 FAR.\n\nFAR has a major impact on the value of the land. Higher allowable FAR yields higher land value.\n\nAndres Duany et al. (2000) note:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853345", "title": "Feminist Initiative (Sweden)", "text": "Feminist Initiative (Sweden)\n\nFeminist Initiative (, abbreviated FI, Fi or F!) is a feminist political party in Sweden. The party was formed in 2005 from a pressure group of the same name, and has since taken part in every election to the Riksdag and the European Parliament. The party won its first elected representative in 2014, with Soraya Post taking one seat in the European Parliament.\n\nFi received 3.1% of the vote in the 2014 general election, the best result in its history, and won seats in thirteen municipalities in the 2014 municipal elections - including in Sweden's largest cities of Gothenburg and Stockholm where it became part of governing \"red-green-pink\" coalitions.\n\nSupport for Feminist Initiative dwindled, however, and the party only managed to obtain 0.4% of the vote in the 2018 general election, making it the largest political party without representation in the Riksdag. The party lost four seats in the municipal elections and did not gain any county council seats.\n\nIn October 2018, Gudrun Schyman announced that she would be stepping down as leader of the party at the next party congress.\n\nParty leader Gita Nabavi announced her resignation on 8 February 2020. A successor will be appointed at the party congress in 2021.\n\nThe original pressure group was presented at a press conference in Stockholm on 4 April 2005. The announcement was preceded by a large number of rumours of a new feminist party. In particular, the rumours were concerned with the growing feminist movement around Gudrun Schyman, a former leader of the Swedish Left Party and at that time independent member of the Riksdag.\n\nSchyman is one of Sweden's most prominent political feminists and had attracted attention when she in 2004 asked how society and men would take responsibility for the violence against women. This question came in the form of an investigation, which was dubbed \"man tax\" by Swedish journalists since they assumed that was how the problem would be resolved.\n\nAt the press conference the founding members stressed that Fi was not yet a political party. The question on whether or not to stand for elections was postponed until further notice. In 2008 it was stated that the organisation was a political party that will stand for elections. In 2009 Feminist Initiative stood for the European Parliament election and got 2.2 percent. In 2010 they stand for the national, regional and local elections.\n\nFollowing the introduction of the pressure group, things happened quickly. Six days later the Fi website announced that the association now had more than 2500 members. Regional and local groups of Fi were announced on the website regularly. Fi's first annual national conference was to be held in Örebro on the 9–11 September 2005 and some 200 motions were submitted.\n\nThe inaugural assembly gathered some 350 members (still lacking a formal structure the participants choose to regard themselves as independent members rather than delegates from regions or local groups). The agenda included three major decisions: the establishing of a political party, formulation of a party agenda and organisational matters (notably a decision on chairperson). On 9 September 2005 the decision was taken to organise as a political party and stand for the parliamentary general election 2006. The party's first Executive Committee included Ann-Marie Tung, Anna Jutterdal, Cecilia Chrapkowska, Gudrun Schyman, Helena Brandt, Lotten Sunna, Maria Jansson, Monica Brun, Monica Amante, Sandra Andersson, Sandra Dahlén, Sofia Karlsson and Tiina Rosenberg.\n\nMedia also focused attention on what came to be called \"the decision to campaign to abolish marriage\" and the current state-recognised cohabiting partnerships, and instead introduce a new \"Cohabitation Act\" (Swedish: \"sammanlevnadsbalk\") which would encompass a new legal status for private relationships between more than two people, irrespective of gender, thereby possibly opening up for polygamy. In reality, the decision was to enlarge the marriage law, so as to include any form of voluntary cohabitation.\n\nRegarding the organisational matters, the conference decided to appoint three executive committee members as their spokespersons (Swedish: \"talesperson\"). So far it has, however, not been made clear to the public what the powers and functions of these spokespersons are. It was also decided that men can hold offices within Fi, upon which two men were elected to the executive committee.\n\nGovernment money for feminist research projects has been questioned and Professor Tiina Rosenberg was accused of plagiarism by political scientist Johan Tralau, citing a 2000 book review of Rosenberg's \"Byxbegär\" ('Wearing the trousers'). After a review of the alleged errors in the book, Rosenberg's faculty at the Stockholm University deemed the matter unnecessary to investigate further. Rosenberg left Fi October 2005, citing media attention and criticism directed toward her research and person as the reason, claiming to be the target of a deliberate antifeminist campaign instigated by right-wing lobbyists.\n\nSome of the statements attributed to Tiina Rosenberg, such as \"women who have sex with men are traitors to their sex\" were criticized as too radical for the party by some other leading Fi members like Susanne Linde and Ebba Witt-Brattström as well. This led to worsening personal conflicts within the party, with both Linde and Witt-Brattström distancing themselves from the party.\n\nOn 1 March 2006, Liberal People's Party's MEP Maria Carlshamre defected to the Feminist Initiative, while remaining within the liberal ALDE group. She explained her defection with “a lack of consideration for feminist issues among her former colleagues.”\n\nIn 2005, Jane Fonda and Eve Ensler supported Fi by joining the election tour in Sweden. Fonda also donated 400,000 Swedish kronor for the campaign. In the days before the Swedish election on 17 September 2006, Fonda again came to Sweden to support the party's election campaign.\n\nBenny Andersson, one of the members of the group ABBA, donated one million kronor to the party in 2009 for its European Parliament campaign.\n\nIn July 2010, the party burned 100,000 Swedish kronor ($13,000; £8,500) in a protest against unequal pay. Fi wanted to draw attention to its proposal for a government fund for equal pay. The money that was burned had been donated by the advertising agency Studio Total, and the event got major publicity around the world. In 2010, the Swedish electro group The Knife also donated money to the party.\n\nIn July 2016, the party announced that it was officially supporting the Black Lives Matter movement.\n\nIn July 2018, Feminist Initiative member Oldoz Javidi was strongly criticized in Swedish media for anti-semitic remarks made during a Ship to Gaza voyage. Javidi stated in an interview that the Jews living in Israel should be moved to the USA, a remark that made journalists draw comparisons to deportations during WWII. Javidi left the party following the criticism.\n\nGudrun Schyman announced on 28 October 2018 that she would not seek re-election as party leader at the next FI party congress, although she remains on the voting ballots in case of a snap election. She will remain a member of the party.\n\nAccording to surveys made in 2005, as many as 10% might vote for the party. In the 2006 general election, the party received 0.68%. The reason for Fi's drop in popularity is believed by some to have been a result of increased radicalism in its platform and its activities. A party needs 4% to get into the Riksdag (Swedish parliament). In the 2009 European elections the party improved its result, getting 2.2% of the national vote. This was not enough to get a seat in the European Parliament. It has been speculated that one reason for the improvement was the one million kronor donation made to the party by former ABBA member Benny Andersson.\n\nIn the 2010 election Fi saw a slump in support compared to 2006, falling from 0.68% to 0.40% of the vote. Fi became the third biggest party in the southern municipality of Simrishamn with 8.9% of the votes, giving them 4 seats in the city council.\n\nThe 2014 European Parliament election proved to be the party's most successful election so far; it attracted 5.3% of the national vote in Sweden, with Soraya Post taking one seat as an MEP. In June 2014, the party announced that its single MEP would join the Socialists and Democrats group in the European parliament.\n\nThey appeared in the 2014 Swedish General Election on 14 September. In its campaign, the party was supported by American recording artist Pharrell Williams and by Benny Andersson. Despite missing the electoral threshold, the Fi received by far the largest share of votes outside of parliament with 3.12%. It also greatly increased its share of representation in municipalities, gaining seats in 13 municipalities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853348", "title": "Norrbotten Party", "text": "Norrbotten Party\n\nThe Norbotten Party (\"Norrbottenspartiet\") was a minor, regional party in Sweden. The base of the party was in the most northern Swedish province, Norrbotten County, and in the local and regional parties, the Kiruna Party and the Norrbotten Healthcare Party.\n\nIn the 2002 Swedish general elections the Kiruna and NHP parties agreed to attempt parliamentary representation in the Swedish Riksdag by running as a joint alternative, trying to reach the county's 4% threshold for representation in the national parliament. The party received 0.28% of the vote, and thus didn't get representation in the Riksdag. The party dissolved shortly afterwards.\n\nThe party leader was Lars Törnman who was at the time co-Mayor (along with the Social Democrat leader) in the local municipality of Kiruna and leader of the Kiruna Party.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853351", "title": "Sandeep Patil", "text": "Sandeep Patil\n\nSandeep Madhusudan Patil (; ; born 18 August 1956) is a former Indian cricketer, Indian national age group cricket manager and former Kenya national team coach, who guided the minnows to the semi-finals of the 2003 World Cup. He was a hard-hitting middle order batsman and an occasional medium pace bowler. He was the coach of Mumbai Champs in the Indian Cricket League, but returned to the mainstream when he cut ties with the unofficial league in 2009. He has been appointed as the director of National Cricket Academy (NCA) by the BCCI, replacing Dav Whatmore. He was appointed as the new chief of the BCCI Selection Committee on 27 September 2012.\n\nSandeep Patil was born on 8 August 1956 in Mumbai. His father, Madhusudan Patil, was a former first class cricketer, national level badminton player and skilled player of tennis and football. He grew up in the Shivaji Park area in Bombay, studied in Balmohan Vidyamandir and Ramnarain Ruia College and was coached by Ankush 'Anna' Vaidya.\n\nIn the early part of his career Patil was as much a medium pacer who bowled off the wrong foot, as he was a batsman. Following three successful years for the Bombay university in the Rohinton Baria Trophy, he made the Bombay Ranji team in 1975–76. After being on and off the team for three seasons, he played his first major innings against Delhi in the 1979 semifinal. Going in at No.6 after Bombay lost the first four wickets for 72, Patil hit 145 in 276 minutes with 18 fours and a six, none of his partners made more than 25. Patil played for Edmonton in the Middlesex league in 1979 and 1980, and for Somerset 'B' in the latter year.\n\nAustralia and Pakistan visited India in 1979–80. Patil appeared in tour matches for West Zone against both teams, scoring 44 and 23 against Australia, and 68 and 71 against Pakistan. This earned him the selection in the last two Test matches against Pakistan. A week before making the debut, he made his career best first class score against Saurashtra at the Wankhede Stadium. Coming in to bat in the second morning he was 45* at lunch, reached his hundred in 139 balls scoring 105 in the second session, and ended up with 210 made in 205 balls with seven sixes and nineteen fours. The last of the sixes cleared the stadium (a very rare feat at the Wankhede) and landed in the hockey grounds outside. Patil made 62 in the final Test at Calcutta, appeared in the Golden Jubilee Test against England later in the season and was selected for the tour of Australia in 1980–81.\n\nIn the early matches of the Australian tour, he scored 116 against South Australia, which included Rodney Hogg, and 60 and 97 against Queensland which had Jeff Thomson, Dennis Lillee, Geoff Dymock and Carl Rackemann. He won the man of the match on his ODI debut for a 64 against Australia.\n\nIn the first innings of the first Test at Sydney Patil had reached 65 when just before the tea break on the first day, he was hit on the throat by Hogg. Continuing without a helmet, he was hit over the right ear by a bouncer by Len Pascoe in the first over after tea. Patil collapsed in the crease and had to retire hurt. Though still unwell, he batted in the second innings at the insistence of captain Sunil Gavaskar as India struggled to avoid an innings defeat.\n\nTwo weeks later, with a helmet on, Patil hit a spectacular 174 in the Adelaide Test. It came after India lost the first four wickets for 130 against the Australian total of 528. At the time the highest innings by an Indian in Australia, it took him just over five hours and included twenty two fours and a six over mid-wicket off Bruce Yardley. In the next series against New Zealand, Patil opened the bowling for India along with Kapil Dev in the Auckland Test.\n\nPatil found himself out of the team after four Tests in the home series against England in 1981–82 but was picked for the away series that followed immediately after. Here in the Manchester Test he scored his second hundred. India was in some danger of following on when he added 96 runs with Kapil Dev a little over an hour. England took the second new ball soon after and Patil hit the last two balls of an over from Ian Botham for four and three. In the next over he hit Bob Willis for six fours (4440444, the third ball being a no ball) – \"two cover drives, one flat batted back over the bowler's head, two square cuts of ferocious power and a mighty hook\" - taking his score from 73 to 104 in nine balls. He was 129 not out when rain brought an early end to the match.\n\nAnother hundred followed against Sri Lanka in September but he was again out the team by the middle of the season. While the Indian team toured West Indies, he scored 121* in 84 balls in the second innings of the Ranji final against Karnataka. All his runs came in single session on the final day as Bombay was targeting a declaration. Patil scored 216 runs in eight matches in the Prudential World Cup including 51* in the semifinal against England. He scored 609 runs in the 1983–84 Ranji season, and his fourth and last Test hundred against Pakistan at Faisalabad.\n\nOn the last day of the Delhi Test against England in December 1984, with his score on 41, Patil was caught at long on attempting a big hit off the bowling of Phil Edmonds. This triggered a collapse and India lost the match that could well have been saved. Patil was dropped in the next test at Kolkata as a disciplinary measure, along with Kapil Dev who also fell to a similar shot off the bowling of Pat Pocock. Mohammad Azharuddin who took his place scored hundreds in his first three Test matches and Patil played no more Test cricket, although Kapil Dev would return to squad. In 1986, he was recalled for a few more one day matches. He also toured England without appearing in Tests.\n\nPatil announced his retirement from first class cricket after appearing for Bombay against the Australians in September 1986. But he came back to captain the Madhya Pradesh cricket team from 1988 to 1993 with considerable success. One of the more notable innings was a 185 against Bombay in 1990. He went on to coach the Indian national team and the 'A' team. As the coach of Kenya, he guided them to an unlikely semifinal place in the 2003 World Cup.\n\nHe served as chairman of selectors of the Board of Control for Cricket in India from 27 September 2012 to September 2016.\n\nSoon after the 1983 Cricket World Cup victory, Patil was offered by Vijay Singh to play the male lead opposite two Bollywood actresses Poonam Dhillon and Debashree Roy in \"Kabhie Ajnabi The\" while Syed Kirmani was offered to essay the role of a strong antagonist. Reportedly Patil got so occupied with his Bollywood debut that he refused to participate in the West Indies tour in 1983. Though the cricketer later reasoned that he had opted out of that tour because he was nursing an injury at that time. The filming began in 1983 and the film was released in 1985. The film was highly publicised on the fighting sequence between Patil and Kirmani as well as his chemistry with Debashree Roy especially in the song sequence \"Geet Mere Hothon Ko Dey Gaya Koi\". It opened with 80% seat occupancy but ultimately became a major debacle at box office.\n\nESPN wrote on his performance, “he even aces the love-struck Hindi film hero's signature move of producing notes from a guitar without moving either hand.” Sportstar commented on his performance that he acted “dashed awkward” in the film. The Tribune wrote, “In contrast to their heroics in the 1983 World Cup, Patil and Kirmani were clean bowled on the big screen.”\n\nPatil edited Marathi sports magazine \"Ekach Shatkar\" which was, once a top selling sports magazine in Maharashtra. It outsold \"Sportstar\" and was often considered as the last nail in the coffin of \"Sportsweek\". The largest selling newspaper \"Mahanagar\" was also started in his garage.\n\nIn 1983, Patil was married when he met Debashree Roy on the set of \"Kabhie Ajnabi The\" (1985) and reportedly had an affair with her. Indian media interpreted their affair as the sole reason for the failure of his first marriage. Reportedly, soon after the release of the film they discontinued their relationship and never publicly discussed anything on their separation. He later married Deepa. He has two sons, Chirag Patil and Prateek Patil. He wrote his autobiography \"Sandy Storm\" in 1984.\n\nChirag Patil will be seen portraying Patil in Kabir Khan's \"83\" (2020) which also stars Ranveer Singh as Kapil Dev.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853352", "title": "Base exchange", "text": "Base exchange\n\nAn exchange is a type of retail store found on United States military installations worldwide. Originally akin to trading posts, they now resemble contemporary department stores or strip malls.\n\nBase exchanges sell consumer goods and services to authorized patrons such as active duty, reserve, national guard, retired members of the U.S. Uniformed Services and their dependents. Other authorized patrons include honorably discharged veterans certified 100% disabled and/or totally and permanently disabled (TPD) by the Veterans Administration, recipients of the Medal of Honor, military transition personnel , DoD employees when stationed outside the United States, Red Cross personnel who are U.S. citizens assigned outside the United States with the military service. Authority to use these facilities is normally determined by presentation of the U.S. Uniformed Services Privilege and Identification Card, either when entering the store or when paying for goods and services. \n\nOnline base exchange shopping privileges were extended to all honorably discharged veterans beginning on November 11, 2017. The DEERS database is used to verify non-disabled veterans' eligibility for the online shopping benefit.\n\nLimited base exchange privileges are extended to members of the Reserve Officer Training Corps (ROTC) and Junior Reserve Officer Training Corps (JROTC) when visiting installations under orders as part of a Service orientation program. Civil Air Patrol Cadets may purchase uniform items when Civil Air Patrol membership card is shown and all food and beverages sold at exchange locations are consumed on post. \n\nMembers of the Naval Sea Cadets attending two-week training course, if occupying government quarters on a military installation. Coast Guard Auxiliary members. Foreign national active duty officer and enlisted members, when visiting U.S. military installation for unofficial business. Merchandise is restricted to quantities required for personal use. At many overseas locations, exchange privileges are determined as part of the local Status of Forces Agreement. \n\nShopping privileges are also generally extended in overseas locations to U.S. federal government civilian employees and their dependents who are assigned overseas. Shopping privileges can vary overseas according to applicable status-of-forces agreements with host nations. A typical exchange is similar to a department store, but other services such as military clothing sales/uniform shops, barber shops, hair care, beauty, laundry/dry cleaning, gas stations, fast food outlets, convenience stores (\"Expresses\"), beer and wine sales, liquor stores (\"Class Six\" or \"Package Stores\"), lawn and garden shops, movie theaters and even vehicle maintenance and repair services are commonly available. Most (but not all) sales by exchanges are free of state and local sales or VAT taxes as the sales take place on U.S. military reservations (exceptions include gasoline sales in the U.S. and sales by concessionaires licensed by the exchange).\n\nUnlike commissaries (military grocery stores), exchanges, for the most part, do not receive significant appropriations from the federal government and must operate on a for-profit basis. With the exception of military personnel assigned to duty with the exchange services, exchange service employees' salaries are paid from revenues generated from sales of merchandise, except for annual raises from funds appropriated by Congress. Exchanges are deemed Category C non-appropriated fund (NAF) activities, meaning they are designed to not only be self-sufficient, but generate a profit.\n\nExchanges are normally located on military reservations and, as a result, do not pay rent or tax for the use of land. Exchanges' tax-exempt status (as instrumentalities of the U.S. Government) also reduces certain operating expenses. While exchanges must pay for the cost of transporting goods within the contiguous United States, Congress appropriates funds to subsidize the transportation costs of American merchandise to overseas exchange locations so that such items are available and affordable to personnel stationed overseas.\n\nRoughly 70% of the exchange earnings are paid to MWR programs. In the last ten years, more than $2.24 billion has been contributed by the exchange to the Army and Air Force to spend on quality of life improvements for Soldiers, Airmen and their families—Youth Services, Armed Forces Recreation Centers, arts and crafts, aquatic centers, post functions and golf courses.\n\nExchanges play an important role for U.S. military and federal government personnel assigned overseas as they are often the only local source for American retail merchandise, such as clothing, electronics, books and magazines, fast food, etc. Exchanges also supply gasoline at prices roughly approximating those in the U.S., normally on a rationed basis, to overseas personnel for personal use, since fuel prices in most foreign countries (where U.S. military are stationed) are normally much higher due to local taxes.\n\nOverseas exchanges also sell to authorized personnel new US Specification vehicles made by Ford and Chrysler, as well as Harley-Davidson motorcycles. \n\n"}
{"id": "1853360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853360", "title": "Madan Lal", "text": "Madan Lal\n\nMadan Lal Udhouram Sharma (Punjabi ਮਦਨ ਲਾਲ, Hindi मदन लाल born 20 March 1951) is a former Indian cricketer (1974–1987) and Indian national cricket coach. He was also a member of the World Cup winning India squad of 1983.\n\nMadan Lal enjoyed outstanding all-round success at first-class level scoring 10,204 runs (av 42.87), including 22 hundreds, also capturing 625 wickets (av 25.50). He had a side-on bowling action.\n\nHe played 39 Test matches for India, scoring 1,042 runs at an average of 22.65, taking 71 wickets at 40.08 and holding 15 catches. He was a fairly competent lower order batsman, often extricating the Indian team from tricky situations which earned him the nickname, \"Maddat Lal\" by grateful Indian fans.\n\nHe made 67 One Day Internationals appearances and was also a member of the 1983 World Cup final winning team where he teamed up with Kapil Dev, Balwinder Sandhu, Roger Binny, Mohinder Amarnath and Kirti Azad to contain and destroy the opposition. In the 1983 world cup finale Kapil Dev took the extraordinary catch of Vivian Richards off the bowling of Madan Lal. Madan Lal played for Punjab but later played for Delhi. Madan Lal also bowled the first ball to Dennis Amiss of England in the 1975 World Cup\n\nIn his retirement, Madan Lal has been actively involved in the game in various capacities. Madan Lal coached the UAE team for 1996 Cricket World Cup. Madan Lal had a stint as India's national cricket coach between September 1996 and September 1997\n\nHe was member of the Selection Committee from 2000 and 2001. He joined and served as the coach of the Delhi Giants (known as the Delhi Jets till 2008) in the Indian Cricket League till it became defunct. He later applied for BCCI's amnesty offer since the ICL was not a recognized Twenty20 League.\n\nMadan Lal run a cricket academy in Siri Fort Sports Complex, Delhi. He was appointed as chief coach of the Sanjay Jagdale MPCA Academy in 2010.\n\nIn March 2009, the Indian National Congress decided to field Madan Lal as their candidate for the Hamirpur Parliamentary constituency bye elections in Himachal Pradesh. Madan Lal was chosen to contest the bye elections against Anurag Thakur, son of the Himachal Pradesh BJP leader, Prem Kumar Dhumal.\n\nIn April 2013, Madan Lal came on a crime show called Hum Ne Li Hai- Shapath on Life OK at 9 pm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853363", "title": "Buddhadasa", "text": "Buddhadasa\n\nPhra Dharmakosacarya (Nguam Indapañño) (; ), also known as Buddhādasa Bhikkhu (; , May 27, 1906 – May 25, 1993) was a famous and influential Thai ascetic-philosopher of the 20th century. Known as an innovative reinterpreter of Buddhist doctrine and Thai folk beliefs, Buddhadasa fostered a reformation in conventional religious perceptions in his home country, Thailand, as well as abroad. Buddhadasa developed a personal view that those who have penetrated the essential nature of religions consider \"all religions to be inwardly the same\", while those who have the highest understanding of \"dhamma\" feel \"there is no religion\".\n\nHe was born Nguam Phanit (; ) in 1906 in Ban Phumriang, Chaiya District, southern Thailand. His father, Sieng Phānit, was a shopkeeper of second generation Thai Chinese (Hokkien) ancestry and his mother, Klaun, was Thai. \n\nBuddhadasa renounced civilian life in 1926. Typical of young monks during the time, he traveled to the capital, Bangkok, for doctrinal training but found the wats there dirty, crowded, and, most troubling to him, the sangha corrupt, \"preoccupied with prestige, position, and comfort with little interest in the highest ideals of Buddhism.\" As a result, he returned to his native rural district and occupied a forest tract near to his village, founding \"Suan Mokkh\" in 1932.\n\nIn later years, Buddhadasa's teachings attracted many international seekers to his hermitage. He held talks with leading scholars and clergy of various faiths. His aim in these discussions was to probe the similarities at the heart of each of the major world religions. Before his death in 1993, he established an International Dhamma Hermitage Center across the highway from his own retreat to aid in the teaching of Buddhism and other yogic practices to international students. The area of \"Suan Mokkh\" was expanded to\napproximately 120 acres of forest. \n\nHowever, Buddhadasa was skeptical of his fame; when reflecting on the busloads of visitors to Suan Mokkh he would say, \"sometimes I think many of these people just stop here because they have to visit the bathroom.\"\n\nBuddhadasa strove for a simple, pristine practice in attempt to emulate Gautama Buddha's core teaching, \"Do good, avoid bad, and purify the mind.\" He therefore avoided the customary ritualism and internal politics that dominated Siamese clerical life. His ability to explain complex philosophical and religious ideas in his native Southern Thai attracted many people to his wooded retreat.\n\nHis primary teaching mainly focused on the quiet awareness of one's breathing pattern called anapanasati. However, his personal practice was very much grounded in advanced research and interpretation of early Pali texts on the one hand and on his radical private experimentation on the other.\n\nBuddhadasa rejected the traditional rebirth and karma doctrine, since he thought it to be incompatible with \"sunyata\", and not conducive to the extinction of \"dukkha\". \n\nBuddhadasa, states John Powers – a professor of Asian Studies and Buddhism, offered a \"rationalist interpretation\" and thought \"the whole question of rebirth to be foolish\". According to Buddhadasa, the Buddha taught 'no-self' (Skt \"anatman\", Pali \"anatta\"), which denies any substantial, ongoing entity or soul. Powers quotes Buddhadasa view as, \"because there is no one born, there is no one who dies and is reborn\". Therefore, states Buddhadasa, \"the whole question of rebirth has nothing to do with Buddhism... in the sphere of the Buddhist teachings there is no question of rebirth or reincarnation\". Its goal is \"nibbana\", which Buddhadasa describes as a state \"beyond all suffering that also transcends ordinary conceptions of happiness.\"\n\nBuddhadasa explains paticcasamupadda as the \"birth\" of \"I\" and mine through sense-contact with objects, and the resulting vedana (\"feeling\"), tanha (\"thirst,\" craving) and upadana (clinging). It is by relinquishing the notion of \"I\" and \"mine\" that selfish clinging is abandoned, and Nirvana or true emptiness will be reached. This can be done by \"not allow[ing] the dependent arising to take place; to cut it off right at the moment of sense-contact.\"\n\nBuddhadasa's views have been \"strongly criticized\" and rejected by many of his fellow Theravada Buddhist monks with a more orthodox view of the Buddhist Dhamma. For example, Bhikkhu Bodhi states that Buddhadasa's approach of jettisoning the rebirth doctrine \"would virtually reduce the Dhamma to tatters... the conception of rebirth is an essential plank to its ethical theory, providing an incentive for avoiding all evil and doing good\", summarizes Powers.\n\nFrom the earliest period of his religious studies, Buddhadasa utilized a comparative approach and sought to be able to explain \"Buddhist's teachings through other thought systems such as Taoism, Hinduism, Confucianism, Jainism and Natural Science.\" Through such a methodology he came to adopt a religious world-view wherein he stated, \"those who have penetrated to the essential nature of religion will regard all religions as being the same. Although they may say there is Buddhism, Judaism, Taoism, Islam, or whatever, they will also say that all religions are inwardly the same.\"\n\nIn his \"No Religion\" (1993) Buddhadasa further famously remarked:\n\nBuddhadasa's interpretations of the Buddhist tradition inspired such persons as the French-schooled Pridi Banomyong, leader of the Siamese revolution of 1932, and a group of Thai social activists and artists of the 20th century.\n\nReligious scholar Donald K. Swearer has compared Buddhadasa to the early Indian philosopher Nagarjuna, and the 5th-century south Indian scholar Buddhaghosa who has \"overshadowed the development of Theravada Buddhist thought\" in southeast Asia. According to Swearer, the Thai teacher Buddhadasa \"stands in polar opposition to such normative figures as Buddhaghosa\" in several respects. Buddhadasa's writings, for example, decidedly contrast with the scholastic and highly influential \"Visuddhimagga\" of Buddhaghosa. Buddhadasa has been influential in the \"arannavasi\" (forest tradition) of Thai Buddhism, and his ideas have influenced the radical sectarian movement founder Santi Asoke, according to Swearer.\n\nAccording to scholars such as Peter Jackson and Daniel Lynch, Buddhadasa was heavily influenced by the ideas found in Zen Buddhism. Buddhadasa considered the Zen ideas as a way to reconcile Theravada Buddhism with modern humanism, and thought them to be the reason for Japan's economic strength.\n\nBuddhadasa's works literally take up an entire room in the National Library of Thailand. The following are some of his well-known books in English translation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853364", "title": "Colin Forbes", "text": "Colin Forbes\n\nColin Forbes may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1853372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853372", "title": "Chamois leather", "text": "Chamois leather\n\nChamois leather () is a type of porous leather, traditionally the skin of the chamois (\"Rupicapra rupicapra\"), a type of European mountain goat, but today made almost exclusively from the flesh split of a sheepskin. \n\nThe leather is favored for its gentle, non-abrasive composition and absorption properties. It has a range of uses:\n\n\nImitation chamois leather is made using other leathers (such as the domestic goat, or pig), and synthetic chamois leather is usually made from polyvinyl alcohol or non-woven viscose rayon.\n\nThe British Standard BS 6715: 1991 defines chamois leather as:\n\n\"Leather made from the flesh split of sheepskin or lambskin, or from sheepskin or lambskin from which the grain (the top split) has been removed by frizing, and tanned by processes involving oxidation of marine oils in the skin.\"\n\nIn the United States, the term \"chamois\" without any qualification is restricted to the flesh split of the sheep or lambskin tanned solely with oils (US Federal Standard CS99-1970).\n\nChamois leather is often counterfeited with goat or pig skin, the practice of which is a particular profession called by the French \"chamoiser\".\n\nThe term \"chamois\" as used to refer to specially-prepared leather originated sometime before 1709, referring to the prepared skin of any goat-like animal, specifically the European antelope—commonly called the \"chamois\"—and exclusively used by the glovemaking industry of southwest France. It was discovered that when tanned in the local cod oil of nearby Biarritz, the result was a material of unprecedented absorbency. This leather was fashioned into soft white gloves designed for carriage footmen, who were responsible for the care and polishing of carriages. This industry usage later transferred to the chauffeurs of the \"horseless carriages\" invented in the early 1900s. The popularity of chamois leather greatly increased with the advent of mass-produced automobile windshields, which needed to be washed frequently for visibility purposes, but were inconvenient and time-consuming to dry through alternative means.\n\nGenuine chamois leather has almost no abrasive properties, and can be used as a very absorbent drying material for any automobile surface. This has made it a popular product for car cleaning and drying.\n\nThe elasticity of the skin's pores, which are very close, allow it to be used in micro-filtration. Its water absorbency makes it good for other uses, such as in cycling shorts (although most modern cycling shorts now use synthetic \"chamois\" leather). It was also used in purifying mercury, which is done by passing it through the pores of the skin.\n\nChamois was historically used as a gasoline filter. When soaked with clean gasoline, chamois will not allow water to pass through its surface fibers. This property is used to filter fuel that has been stored in drums prone to ingress of water, or from any other doubtful source. The technique is to provide a large-mouthed funnel with a wide outlet surface that supports a woven wire base, or metal plate with a grid of holes. The lower part of the funnel is tapered to fit the receptacle or tank-filler aperture.\n\nA suitably sized chamois skin is soaked in clean fuel and placed over the grid in the funnel and brought up the sides, forming a bowl, to prevent any leakage past the skin. Fuel can then be pumped into the top of the funnel by the fuel dispenser and watched for signs of water accumulation. The process can be stopped to lift out the assembly from the tank and the trapped water removed so that the job can be continued. Chamois leather is used thus as a fuel filter by boaters, auto detailers, and aircraft refuellers, particularly of a past age when aircraft were flown into very remote areas.\n\nChamois leather is widely used for drying and buffing vehicles, such as cars and vans, after washing.\n\nSmall pieces of chamois leather (often called \"chamois cloth\") are commonly used as blending tools by artists drawing with charcoal. The leather blends the charcoal more softly and cleanly than the artist's fingers, which can leave smudges. The chamois is also used to lighten the drawing (or portions of it) by removing some charcoal in a more subtle and nuanced way than most erasers could. The charcoal can be washed from the leather using soap and water.\n\nChamois leather is used around professional film and video camera viewfinders, as it provides comfort and absorbs sweat from camera operators who spend a long time with their eye planted on the viewfinder.\n\nDivers use towels made of chamois leather to dry themselves between jumps, as they can be quickly dried by squeezing them.\n"}
{"id": "1853373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853373", "title": "Morgan Roadster", "text": "Morgan Roadster\n\nThe Morgan Roadster is a model produced by the Morgan Motor Company. It was introduced in 2004 replacing the Morgan Plus 8. The car is identical to its predecessor except for new modern Ford V6 mechanicals. The new engine develops similar power, though less torque, and is slightly lighter than the Rover V8 which results in increased performance and better fuel economy. Air conditioning is now standard on U.S. models. Like its predecessor, the chassis consists of a standard ladder frame design and is built from galvanised steel with five tubular or box section cross members. The body is built of steel and aluminum around an ash frame. Suspension is traditional Morgan slider type up-front and solid axle / leaf spring at the rear.\n\nUnlike its predecessor, the Roadster was available as a 2-seater or a 4-seater.\n\nThe standard colour range is Royal Ivory, Corsa Red, Indigo Blue, Connaught Green, and Black, but any single colour or two-tone combination from the ICI Autocolour range is available as an option.\n\n\nFuel tank capacity : \n\nStandard bolt on alloy wheels (5 stud) 6.5\" x 15\" (205/55/16 tyres)\nOptional 100% stainless wire wheels 72 spoke 7\" x 16\" (205/55/16 tyres)\n\n\nIndirect ratios: \n\nSingle dry plate\n\nTubular live axle with hypoid gears and limited slip.\n\n\nMinimum octane rating 95 Ron\nElectronic fuel injection. Sealed evaporative control system through charcoal canister. Tubular stainless manifolds (headers) to stainless steel twin exhaust with catalysts.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853379", "title": "Nicole Johnson (Miss America)", "text": "Nicole Johnson (Miss America)\n\nNicole Johnson (born January 9, 1974) is an American beauty queen, author, public health professional and activist. Crowned Miss America 1999 and Miss Virginia 1998, she became the first Miss America with diabetes and the first contestant to publicize the use of an insulin pump. She now advocates for diabetes research, treatment, and education, having been diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in 1993.\n\nJohnson holds a B.A. in English from the University of South Florida and an M.A. in journalism from the School of Communication & the Arts at Regent University in Virginia. She also has a Master of Public Health degree from the University of Pittsburgh gained in 2007. In 2013, Johnson received a Doctor of Public Health degree from the University of South Florida.\n\nJohnson first started competing in pageants in Florida and placed in the Top 10 at Miss Florida in 1995 and was third runner-up in the Miss Florida USA 1995 pageant. After moving to Virginia to pursue post-graduate education at Regent University she continued competing and placed in the top ten at Miss Virginia 1997. \n\nIn March 1998 she won the Miss Lynchburg Festival title and went on to win the Miss Virginia 1998 title on June 29, 1998.\n\nIn September Johnson represented Virginia in the Miss America 1999 pageant, becoming the second woman representing that state to win the Miss America title. She sang \"That's Life\" in the talent competition. In 1997 she started wearing an insulin pump on her hip to control her illness, which she wore while competing at Miss Virginia and Miss America, the first Miss America contestant and winner to do so. \n\nJohnson became a spokesperson for the American Diabetes Association in the 1990s and had testified in legislative hearings in Washington, D.C. prior to winning the Miss Virginia title. \n\nIn 2004, her communication skills and journalism background led her to become the anchor of \"dLife\", a weekly TV series about diabetes that aired on CNBC. Johnson has also written several books over her career: three cookbooks with Mr. Food, an independent cookbook titled, \"Nicole Johnson's Diabetes Recipe Makeovers,\" an autobiography titled \"Living with Diabetes,\" and a book for young adults titled, \"Young Adult Type 1 Diabetes Realities.\"\n\nShe continues to work as a diabetes advocate and patient care expert - professionally and in a volunteer capacity. Her consulting clients have included Novo Nordisk, Animas Corporation, AmMed Direct LLC and Eli Lilly and Company. On a volunteer basis, she has served in leadership roles within the JDRF and the American Diabetes Association. Her academic credentials have most recently led her to public health work at the University of South Florida where she is the Executive Director of a program she created called Bringing Science Home. In 2010, Johnson founded Students With Diabetes (SWD), at the University of South Florida, to serve the needs of the young adult population with diabetes.\n\nJohnson was briefly engaged to investment banker Conn Jackson in 2000.\n\nIn 2003, Johnson married journalist Scott Baker. The couple met in the mid-90s at a seminar Baker held for college students interested in news careers. Together the couple had a daughter. Johnson and Baker later divorced in 2008.\n\nPrior to her participation in 1995 Miss Florida pageant, she appeared in a supporting part in the independent Australian film, \"No Worries\" (1994), directed by David Elfick. In 1997, she had a minor cameo part as an extra in Neil LaBute's \"In the Company of Men.\" She later appeared in a supporting role in the independent horror film, \"Blood Games\" (2003).\n\n"}
{"id": "1853384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853384", "title": "NGC 3314", "text": "NGC 3314\n\nNGC 3314 is a pair of overlapping spiral galaxies between 117 and 140 million light-years away in the constellation Hydra. This unique alignment gives astronomers the opportunity to measure the properties of interstellar dust in the face-on foreground galaxy (NGC 3314a). The dust appears dark against the background galaxy (NGC 3314b). Unlike interacting galaxies, the two components of NGC 3314 are physically unrelated. It was discovered in April 1999.\n\nIn a March 2000 observation of the galaxies, a prominent green star-like object was seen in one of the arms. Astronomers theorized that it could have been a supernova, but the unique filtering properties of the foreground galaxy made it difficult to decide definitively.\n\nBoth galaxies are members of the Hydra Cluster.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853388", "title": "Yusuf ibn Tashfin", "text": "Yusuf ibn Tashfin\n\nYusuf ibn Tashfin, also Tashafin, Teshufin, (; reigned c. 1061 – 1106) was leader of the Berber Moroccan Almoravid empire. He co-founded the city of Marrakesh and led the Muslim forces in the Battle of Zallaqa/Sagrajas. Ibn Tashfin came to al-Andalus from Africa to help the Muslims fight against Alfonso VI, eventually achieving victory and promoting an Islamic system in the region. He was married to Zainab al-Nafzawiyya, whom he reportedly trusted politically.\n\nYusuf ibn Tashfin was a Berber from the Banu Turgut, a branch of the Lamtuna, a tribe belonging to the Sanhaja supertribe. Abu Bakr ibn Umar, a natural leader of Lamtuna extraction, a branch of the Branès, one of the original disciples of ibn Yasin who served as a spiritual liaison for followers of the Maliki school of Islamic jurisprudence, was appointed general after the death of his brother Yahya ibn Umar al-Lamtuni. His brother oversaw the military for ibn Yasin but was killed in a Saharan revolt in 1056. Ibn Yasin, too, would die in battle against the Barghawata three years later. Abu-Bakr was an able general, taking the fertile Sūs and its capital Aghmāt a year after his brother's death, and would go on to suppress numerous revolts in the Sahara, on one such occasion entrusting his pious cousin Yusuf with the stewardship of Sūs and thus the whole of his northern provinces. He appears to have handed him this authority in the interim but even went as far as to give Yusuf his wife, Zaynab an-Nafzawiyyat, purportedly the richest woman of Aghmāt. This sort of trust and favor on part of a seasoned veteran and savvy politician reflected the general esteem in which Yusuf was held, not to mention the power he attained as a military figure in his absence. Daunted by Yusuf's new-found power, Abu Bakr saw any attempts at recapturing his post politically unfeasible and returned to the fringes of the Sahara to settle the unrest of the southern frontier.\n\nIn the year 1091, the last sovereign king of al-Andalus, al-Mu'tamid, saw his Abbadid-inherited taifa of Seville, controlled since 1069, in jeopardy of being taken by the increasingly stronger king of Castile-León, Alfonso VI. The Taifa period followed the demise of the Umayyad Caliphate. Previously, the emir had launched a series of aggressive attacks on neighboring kingdoms, so as to amass more territory for himself, but his military aspirations and capabilities paled in comparison to those of the Castilian king, who in the name of Christendom, in 1085, captured Toledo and exacted \"parias\", or tribute, from Muslim princes in places such as Granada, al-Mu'tamid of Seville being no exception. The tribute of the emirs bolstered the economy of the Christian kingdom, and harmed the Muslim economy. These are the circumstances that led to the Almoravid conquest and the famous quote, rebuffing his son, Rashid, who advised him not to call on Yusuf ibn Tashfin, where al-Mu'tamid said\n\nYusuf was an effective general and administrator, as evidenced by his ability to organize and maintain the loyalty of the hardened desert warriors and the territory of Abu Bakr, as well as his ability to expand the empire, crossing the Atlas Mountains onto the plains of Morocco, reaching the Mediterranean and capturing Fez in 1075, Tangier in 1079, Tlemcen in 1080, and Ceuta in 1083, as well as Algiers, Ténès and Oran in 1082-83. He is regarded as the co-founder of the famous Moroccan city Marrakech (in Berber \"Murakush\", corrupted to \"Morocco\" in English). The site had been chosen and work started by Abu Bakr in 1070. The work was completed by Yusef, who then made it the capital of his empire, in place of the former capital Aghmāt. By the time Abu Bakr died in 1087, after a skirmish in the Sahara as result of a poison arrow, Yusef had crossed over into al-Andalus and also achieved victory at the Battle of az-Zallaqah, also known as the \"Battle of Sagrajas\" in the west. He came to al-Andalus with a force of 15,000 men, armed with javelins and daggers, most of his soldiers carrying two swords, shields, cuirass of the finest leather and animal hide, and accompanied by drummers for psychological effect. Yusef's cavalry was said to have included 6,000 shock troops from Senegal mounted on white Arabian horses. Camels were also put to use. On October 23, 1086, the Almoravid forces, accompanied by 10,000 Andalusian fighters from local Muslim provinces, decisively checked the Reconquista, significantly outnumbering and defeating the largest Christian army ever assembled up to that point. The death of Yusef's heir, however, prompted his speedy return to Africa.\n\nWhen Yusuf returned to al-Andalus in 1090, he saw the lax behavior of the taifa kings, both spiritually and militarily, as a breach of Islamic law and principles, and left Africa with the express purpose of usurping the power of all the Muslim principalities, under the auspices of the Abbasid caliph of Baghdad, with whom he had shared correspondence, and under the slogan \"\"The spreading of righteousness, the correction of injustice and the abolition of unlawful taxes.\"\" The emirs in such cities as Seville, Badajoz, Almeria and Granada had grown accustomed to the extravagant ways of the west. On top of doling out tribute to the Christians and giving Andalusian Jews unprecedented freedoms and authority, they had levied burdensome taxes on the populace to maintain this lifestyle. After a series of fatwas and careful deliberation, Yusef saw the implementation of orthodoxy as long overdue. That year he exiled the emirs 'Abdallah and his brother Tamim from Granada and Málaga, respectively, to Aghmāt, and a year later al-Mutamid of Seville suffered the same fate. When all was said and done, Yusef united all of the Muslim dominions of the Iberian Peninsula, with the exception of Zaragoza, to the Kingdom of Morocco, and situated his royal court at Marrakech. He took the title of \"Amir al-muslimin\" (\"Prince of the Muslims\"), seeing himself as humbly serving the caliph of Baghdad, but to all intents and purposes he was considered the caliph of the western Islamic empire. The military might of the Almoravids was at its peak.\n\nThe Sanhaja confederation, which consisted of a hierarchy of Lamtuna, Musaffa and Djudalla Berbers, represented the military's top brass. Amongst them were Andalusian Christians and heretic Africans, taking up duties as \"diwan al-gund\", Yusef's own personal bodyguard, including 2,000 black horsemen, whose tasks also included registering soldiers and making sure they were compensated financially. The occupying forces of the Almoravids were made up largely of horsemen, totaling no less than 20,000. Into the major cities of al-Andalus, Seville (7,000), Granada (1,000), Cordoba (1,000), 5,000 bordering Castile and 4,000 in western al-Andalus, succeeding waves of horsemen, in conjunction with the garrisons that had been left there after the Battle of Sagrajas, made responding, for the Taifa emirs, difficult. Soldiers on foot used bows & arrows, sabres, pikes, javelins, each protected by a cuirass of Moroccan leather and iron-spiked shields. During the siege of the fort-town Aledo, in Murcia, previously captured by the Spaniard \"Garcia Giménez\", Almoravid and Andalusian hosts are said to have used catapults, in addition to their customary drum beat. Yusef also established naval bases in Cadiz, Almeria and neighboring ports along the Mediterranean. Ibn Maymun, the governor of Almeria, had a fleet at his disposal. Another such example is the Banu Ghaniya fleet based off the Balearic Islands that dominated the affairs of the western Mediterranean for much of the 12th century.\n\nAlthough the Almoravids had not gained much in the way of territory from the Christians, rather than merely offsetting the Reconquista, Yusuf did succeed in capturing Valencia. A city divided between Muslims and Christians, under the weak rule of a petty emir paying tribute to the Christians, including the famous El Cid, Valencia proved to be an obstacle for the Almoravid military, despite their untouchable reputation. Abu Bakr ibn Ibrahim ibn Tashfin and Yusef's nephew Abu 'Abdullah Muhammad both failed to defeat El Cid. Yusef then sent Abu'l-Hasan 'Ali al-Hajj, but he was not successful either. In 1097, on his fourth trip to al-Andalus, Yusef sought to personally dig down and fight the armies of Alfonso VI, making his way towards the all but abandoned, yet historically important, Toledo. Such a concerted effort was meant to draw the Christian forces, including those laying siege to Valencia, into the center of Iberia. On August 15, 1097, the Almoravids delivered yet another blow to Alfonso's forces, a battle in which El Cid's son was killed.\n\nMuhammad ibn 'A'isha, Yusef's son, whom he had appointed governor of Murcia, succeeded in delivering an effective pounding to the Cid's forces at Alcira; still not capturing the city, but satisfied with the results of his campaigns, Yusef left for his court at Marrakesh, only to return two years later in a new effort to take the provinces of eastern al-Andalus. El Cid had died in the same year, 1099, and his wife Jimena had been ruling until the coming of another Almoravid campaign at the tail end of 1100, led by Yusef's trusted lieutenant Mazdali ibn Tilankan. After a seven-month siege, Alfonso and Jimena, despairing of the prospects of staving off the Almoravids, set fire to the great mosque in anger and abandoned the city. Yusef had finally conquered Valencia achieving dominance over eastern al-Andalus. He receives mention in the oldest Spanish epic \"Poema del Cid\", also known as \"El Cantar del Mio Cid\".\n\n\"A wise and shrewd man, neither too prompt in his determinations, nor too slow in carrying them into effect\", Yusef was very much adapted to the rugged terrain of the Sahara and had no interests in the pomp of the Andalusian courts.\n\nAccording to medieval Arabic writers, Yusuf was of average build and stature. He is further described as having \"had a clear brown complexion and he had a thin beard. His voice was soft, his speech elegant. His eyes were black, his nose was hooked, and he had fat on the fleshy portions of his ears. His hair was curly and his eyebrows met above his nose.\"\n\nHis son and successor, Ali ibn Yusuf, was viewed as just as devout a Muslim as his father. Córdoba, in about 1119, served as the launch pad for Andalusian insurrection. Christians on the northern frontier gained momentum shortly after his father's death, and the Almohads, beginning about 1120, were to engulf the southern frontier. This ultimately led to the disintegration of Yusef's hard-gained territories by the time of Ibrahim ibn Tashfin (1146) and Ishaq ibn Ali (1146–1147), the last of the Almoravid dynasty.\n\nWhile Yusef was the most honorable of Muslim rulers, he spoke Arabic poorly. Ali ibn Yusef in 1135 exercised good stewardship by attending to the University of Al-Karaouine and ordering the extension of the mosque from 18 to 21 aisles, expanding the structure to more than 3,000 square meters. Some accounts suggest that to carry out this work Ali ibn Yusef hired two Andalusian architects, who also built the central aisle of the Great Mosque of Tlemcen, Algeria, in 1136.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853390", "title": "He (song)", "text": "He (song)\n\n\"He\" is a song about God, written in 1954. The song made the popular music charts the following year.\n\nThe music was written by Jack Richards, with lyrics by Richard Mullan. The song was originally published by Avas Music Publishing, Inc.\n\nThe first recording to be released was by Al Hibbler, whose version reached No. 4 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Best Sellers in Stores, No. 7 on \"Billboard\"s Top 100, No. 7 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Most Played by Jockeys, and No. 8 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Most Played in Juke Boxes.\n\nThe McGuire Sisters also released a version of the song in 1955, which reached No. 10 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Most Played in Juke Boxes, No. 12 on \"Billboard\"s Top 100, No. 12 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Best Sellers in Stores, and No. 16 on \"Billboard\"s chart of Most Played by Jockeys.\n\nThe song was ranked No. 33 on \"Billboard\"s ranking of \"1955's Top Tunes\", based on the Honor Roll of Hits and No. 34 on \"Billboard\"s ranking of \"1956's Top Tunes\".\n\nThe Righteous Brothers released a version of the song in 1966, which spent eight weeks on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 chart, peaking at No. 18.\n\nAndy Williams released a version on his 1960 album, \"The Village of St. Bernadette\".\n\nDiana Ross & The Supremes covered the song for \"In Loving Memory\", a 1968 gospel compilation featuring Motown Records artists.\n"}
{"id": "1853394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853394", "title": "University of Erfurt", "text": "University of Erfurt\n\nThe University of Erfurt () is a public university located in Erfurt, the capital city of the German state of Thuringia. It was founded in 1379, and closed in 1816. It was re-established in 1994, three years after German reunification. Therefore it claims to be both the oldest and youngest university in Germany. The institution identifies itself as a reform university, due to its most famous alumnus Martin Luther, the instigator of the Reformation, who studied there from 1501 to 1505. Today, the main foci centre on multidisciplinarity, internationality, and mentoring.\n\nThe university is home to the Max Weber Center for Advanced Cultural and Social Studies, the Gotha Research Center for Cultural and Social Scientific Studies, and the Willy Brandt School of Public Policy.\n\nThe Gotha Research Library, which has one of Germany's largest collections of early modern manuscripts, is part of the university. The University Library is also the keeper of the \"Bibliotheca Amploniana\", a collection of nearly 1000 medieval manuscripts collected by the scholar Amplonius Rating de Berka (c.1363-1435), who was a former Rector of the university.\n\nThe University of Erfurt was founded in 1379 in the Holy Roman Empire, in territory which is now modern day Germany. When the town of Erfurt became part of Prussia in 1816, the government closed the university after more than 400 years of operation.\nErfurt was in the German Democratic Republic (East Germany) from 1949 to 1990. In December 1993, the State Government of Thuringia, Landtag of Thuringia, voted to re-establish the university. The university was re-founded on January 1, 1994. Lectures began in the winter term of 1999/2000. Shortly afterwards, the Rector who had overseen the founding, Peter Glotz, a politician in the Social Democratic Party, left the university. The position was taken over by Wolfgang Bergsdorf.\n\nIn 2001, the Erfurt Teachers' Training College (\"Pädagogische Hochschule Erfurt\"), founded in 1953, became part of the university. On January 1, 2003, a fourth faculty was added to the university: the Roman Catholic Theological Faculty, which had belonged to Erfurt's Philosophical and Theological Centre (\"Philosophisch-Theologisches Studium Erfurt\").\n\nThe University of Erfurt is a liberal arts university with reform and socio-cultural profile. The close integration of the Philosophical, Educational Research, Governmental Studies, the Catholic Theological Faculty, and the Max Weber Center, promotes interdisciplinary alongside innovative approaches to research and teaching through a mentoring program.\n\nThe University of Erfurt has no tuition fees and represents the first institution of higher education to receive the family-friendly certificate for employers.\nThe University of Erfurt has five faculties and three academic institutes:\n\n\nThe academic institutes are:\n\n\n\nCurrently following colleges and research teams are part of the Erfurt doctoral and postdoctoral program (EPPP):\n\n\nIn the summer semester of 2003, a project group was formed at the university to take part in the National Model United Nations (NMUN) in New York City in April 2004. The pilot project has become a regular, student-organized seminar at the university. The various groups received several awards for their participation at the conference in 2006, 2007, and 2008.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853411", "title": "Dragon NaturallySpeaking", "text": "Dragon NaturallySpeaking\n\nDragon NaturallySpeaking (also known as Dragon for PC, or DNS) is a speech recognition software package developed by Dragon Systems of Newton, Massachusetts, which was acquired first by Lernout & Hauspie Speech Products and later by Nuance Communications, formerly known as ScanSoft. It runs on Windows personal computers. Version 15 (Professional Individual and Legal Individual), which supports 32-bit and 64-bit editions of Windows 7, 8 and 10, was released in August 2016. The macOS version is called Dragon Professional Individual for Mac, version 6 or \"Dragon for Mac\".\n\nDragon Naturally Speaking uses a minimal user interface. As an example, dictated words appear in a floating tooltip as they are spoken (though there is an option to suppress this display to increase speed), and when the speaker pauses, the program transcribes the words into the active window at the location of the cursor. (Dragon does not support dictating to background windows.) The software has three primary areas of functionality: voice recognition in dictation with speech transcribed as written text, recognition of spoken commands, and text-to-speech: speaking text content of a document. Voice profiles can be accessed by different computers in a networked environment, although the audio hardware and configuration must be identical to those of the machine generating the configuration. The Professional version allows creation of custom commands to control programs or functions not built into NaturallySpeaking.\n\nDr. James Baker laid out the description of a speech understanding system called DRAGON in 1975. \nIn 1982 he and Dr. Janet M. Baker, his wife, founded Dragon Systems to release products centered around their voice recognition prototype. He was President of the company and she was CEO.\n\nDragonDictate was first released for DOS, and utilized hidden Markov models, a probabilistic method for temporal pattern recognition. At the time, the hardware was not powerful enough to address the problem of word segmentation, and DragonDictate was unable to determine the boundaries of words during continuous speech input. Users were forced to enunciate one word at a time, clearly separated by a small pause after each word. DragonDictate was based on a trigram model, and is known as a discrete utterance speech recognition engine.\n\nDragon Systems released NaturallySpeaking 1.0 as their first continuous dictation product in 1997.\n\nJoel Gould was the director of emerging technologies at Dragon Systems. Gould was the principal architect and lead engineer for the development of Dragon NaturallyOrganized (1.0), Dragon NaturallySpeaking Mobile Organizer (3.52), Dragon NaturallySpeaking (1.0 through 2.02), and DragonDictate for Windows (1.0). Gould also designed the tutorials in both DragonDictate for DOS version 2.0 and Dragon Talk.\n\nThe company was then purchased in June 2000 by Lernout & Hauspie, a Belgium-based corporation that was subsequently found to have been perpetrating financial fraud. Following the all-share deal advised by Goldman Sachs, Lernout & Hauspie declared bankruptcy in November 2000. The deal was not originally supposed to be all stock and the unavailability of the Goldman Sachs team to advise concerning the change in terms was one of the grounds of the Bakers' subsequent lawsuit. The Bakers had received stock worth hundreds of millions of US dollars, but were only able to sell a few million dollars' worth before the stock lost all its value as a result of the accounting fraud. The Bakers sued Goldman Sachs for negligence, intentional misrepresentation and breach of fiduciary duty, which in January 2013 led to a 23-day trial in Boston. The jury cleared Goldman Sachs of all charges. Following the bankruptcy of Lernout & Hauspie, the rights to the Dragon product line were acquired by ScanSoft of Burlington, Massachusetts, also a Goldman Sachs client. In 2005 ScanSoft launched a \"de facto\" acquisition of Nuance Communications, and rebranded itself as Nuance.\n\nAs of 2012 LG Smart TVs include voice recognition feature powered by the same speech engine as Dragon NaturallySpeaking.\n\nDragon NaturallySpeaking 12 is available in the following languages: UK English, US English, French, German, Italian, Spanish, Dutch, and Japanese (aka \"Dragon Speech 11\" in Japan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853413", "title": "Halil Rifat Pasha", "text": "Halil Rifat Pasha\n\nHalil Rifat Pasha (Modern Turkish: \"Halil Rıfat Paşa\"; 1820–9 November 1901) was an Ottoman statesman and a Grand Vizier for six years between 1895 until his death in 1901, during the reign of Abdul Hamid II.\n\nHe was born in Serres (Serez) and received education in an Islamic type parish school in Salonika (Selanik), then continued to Mekteb-i Mülkiye in Constantinople.\n\nAfter his education years, he started to work as a mailing clerk in Vidin, then worked as secretary in the office of the Governor of Salonika. He advanced by degrees and was appointed to higher official positions by passage of time, including at Rustchuk. In 1882 he was appointed as mutasarrıf of Vidin, then in 1886 he was appointed as governor of Sivas, where he started a road-building programme. He was subsequently appointed governor of Aidin (1889) and later of Monastir, where he fought brigandage units which was rife in the province. He was appointed as minister of internal affairs in 1893 . Then he was appointed as grand vizier in November 1895 . The most important events in his era as grand vizier were the riots of Sason (in 1895) and in Crete (in 1897), as well as the Greco-Turkish War of 1897 which ended with Ottoman victory.\n\nHis motto in the road building campaign was \"Any place where you can't go is not yours\" ()\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853423", "title": "Order of the Sword", "text": "Order of the Sword\n\nThe Royal Order of the Sword (officially: \"Royal Order of the Sword\"; Swedish: \"Kungliga Svärdsorden\") is a Swedish order of chivalry and military decoration created by King Frederick I of Sweden on February 23, 1748, together with the Order of the Seraphim and the Order of the Polar Star.\n\nAwarded to officers, and originally intended as an award for bravery and particularly long or useful service, it eventually became a more or less obligatory award for military officers after a certain number of years in service. There were originally three grades, \"Knight\", \"Commander\" and \"Commander Grand Cross\", but these were later multiplied by division into classes.\n\nThe motto of the order is in Latin: \"Pro Patria\" (which means \"For Fatherland\").\n\nThe order was created by King Frederick I in 1748, along with two other orders, the Order of the Seraphim and the Order of the Polar Star. In 1788, King Gustav III created two new grades of the order, which could only be bestowed in war time:\n\n\nThese grades proper were only given to commissioned officers, but an affiliated decoration, the \"Svärdstecken\" (\"Badge of the Sword\"), introduced in 1850, was given to non-commissioned officers; one thus decorated would call himself a \"svärdsman\" (\"Sword man\"). A Medal of the Sword was also introduced for enlisted men. Both the non-commissioned officers and the enlisted men had to have served for at least sixteen years to qualify respective for the Badge and Medal.\n\nIn 1952 a special medal of distinction was added to the order. These could only be bestowed in wartime. They are the War Cross of the Order of the Sword in Gold, in Silver and in Bronze. They are worn on the same ribbon as the order and the medal consist of the cross saltire of the Order struck in gold, silver or bronze, with an upraised sword behind central medallion bearing the Swedish three crowns and in the spaces between the upper and lower arms of the cross. At the top of the points of the upper arms of the cross and of the sword is a small royal crown.\n\nMembership of the order has not been awarded since 1975, but technically it still exists. King Carl XVI Gustaf of Sweden frequently wears his Commander Grand Cross necklet and badge.\n\nFormerly the reception of new Commanders Grand Cross took place without religious ceremonies in the royal apartments, but in the presence of the other Commanders Grand Cross of the Order, of the Knights of the Seraphim, and the Commanders Grand Cross of all the other orders. By the oath the Commander elect bound himself “to defend with life and property the Evangelical-Lutheran religion, to serve faithfully the King and the country, and to combat courageously against the foes of the country.” When a foreigner was elected a Commander of the Grand Cross, the insignia were sent to him abroad, while he, in his turn, transmitted to the archives of the Order a statement of the services rendered by him.\n\nThe Order of the Sword in peacetime had five classes:\n\n\nIn 1788 king Gustaf III, during the Russo-Swedish War instituted another class of the order, that could only be bestowed in wartime, and only to senior officers who's conduct had had a significant effect on the war. Not even the king of Sweden can wear the decoration until a \"\"Swedish army under His command has been victorious, either through combat or conquest\"\". The special class is called \"Knight of the Grand Cross\". The breast star is in the shape of an upright sword, and is worn on the left pocket and the badge is worn around the neck.\n\nThe order also encompasses two medals;\nBoth medals are worn on a ribbon on the left chest.\n\nThe \"badge\" of the Order is a white enamelled Maltese Cross in saltire (i.e. \"X\" shaped), in silver for Knight class and in gold for the Knight 1st Class and above; gold open crowns appeared between the arms of the cross. The obverse central medallion bears an upright gold sword between three gold crowns on a blue enamelled background; the reverse central medallion has an upright gold sword intersecting a gold laurel wreath, and the Latin legend \"Pro Patria\" (For Fatherland) on a blue enamelled background. A pair of crossed gold swords in blue enamelled scabbards with downward turned blades lie across the opening between the upper arms of the cross at the top of the badge. In addition the badges of the two highest classes also have an upright similar gold and blue sword across the openings at the sides of the cross and an identical pair of crossed gold and blue swords with downwards turned blades across the opening between the lower arms of the cross at the bottom of the badge, the pairs of crossed swords are each tied together and the side swords are bound to the cross by a single gold ribbon which crosses the arms of the cross from behind. The badge hanged from a gold and enamelled royal crown.\n\n\nFormerly the Order also had a distinctive blue and yellow habit worn on formal occasions such as at chapters of the Order. The habit included yellow trousers, a yellow knee length coat with blue shoulder tabs and a yellow girdle, each bordered in blue, blue mantle lined with blue satin and a blue shoulder sash with a gold fringe. The star of the Order was embroidered over the left breast of both the coat and the mantle. A black top hat with gold hat band and a plume of white ostrich and black egret feathers and a pair of black boots with gilded spurs completed the habit. The collar of the Order was worn over the shoulders of the coat.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853434", "title": "Edwina Sandys", "text": "Edwina Sandys\n\nEdwina Sandys (born 29 December 1938) is a British artist and sculptor.\n\nSandys was a debutante and was presented to Queen Elizabeth II. After graduating from a genteel girls’ school she went to Paris, then had a job \"answering the doorbell\" for a dress designer, and a stint as a secretary. She later became a Sunday Telegraph columnist and a novelist. Her career as an artist began in 1970.\n\nSandys' work titled \"\", at Westminster College, Fulton, Missouri, features eight sections of the Berlin Wall. The college was the site of her grandfather Sir Winston Churchill's famous \"Iron Curtain\" speech in 1946 and is now the site of the National Churchill Museum.\n\nSandys also worked with the Missouri University of Science and Technology, located in Rolla, Missouri, to use a new way to make deep cuts in granite to create the Millennium Arch sculpture which stands across the campus from their Stonehenge monument. The Arch is a single trilithon with a vague silhouette of a man and a woman on each of its supporting megaliths, several meters from the arch.\n\nIn an interview with \"New York Social Diary\" Edwina discusses one of her more well known works, \"Christa\". Edwina describes her reasoning behind the sculpture, explaining that though she is not a religious person, she felt the need to represent women within what's often considered the most important image: Jesus on the cross. She states that the sculpture showed the suffering of women as well.\nHer published works include the book \"Edwina Sandys Art\", and an illustrated quiz book entitled \"Social Intercourse\".\n\n\nShe is the eldest daughter and second child of Baron Duncan-Sandys and Diana Churchill, and a granddaughter of the statesman Sir Winston Churchill.\n\nShe married Piers Dixon in 1960 and they were divorced in 1970. They have two sons Mark Pierson Dixon (b. 1962) and Hugo Duncan Dixon (b. 1963).\n\nShe married the architect Richard D. Kaplan in 1985, he died in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853435", "title": "Talaat Pasha", "text": "Talaat Pasha\n\nMehmed Talaat (; ; 1 September 1874 – 15 March 1921), commonly known as Talaat Pasha (; ), was one of the triumvirate known as the Three Pashas that \"de facto\" ruled the Ottoman Empire during the First World War. He was one of the leaders of the Young Turks and ruled the empire during the Armenian Genocide, which he initiated as Minister of Interior Affairs in 1915.\n\nHis career in Ottoman politics began by becoming deputy for Adrianople (Edirne) in 1908, then minister of the interior and minister of finance, and finally grand vizier (equivalent to prime minister) in 1917. Acting as the minister of interior, Talaat Pasha on 24 April 1915 the arrest and deportation of Armenian intellectuals in Constantinople (now Istanbul), most of them being ultimately murdered, and on 30 May 1915 requested the Tehcir Law (Temporary Deportation Law); these events initiated the Armenian Genocide. He is widely considered the main perpetrator of the genocide, and thus is held responsible for the death of between 800,000 and 1,800,000 Armenians.\n\nOn the night of 2–3 November 1918 and with the aid of Ahmed Izzet Pasha, Talaat Pasha and Enver Pasha (the two main perpetrators of the genocide) fled the Ottoman Empire. Talaat was assassinated in Berlin in 1921 by Soghomon Tehlirian, a member of the Armenian Revolutionary Federation, as part of Operation Nemesis.\n\nMehmed Talaat was born in 1874 in Kırcaali town of Adrianople (Edirne) Vilayet into a family of Pomak and Gypsy descent. His father was a junior civil servant working for the government of the Ottoman Empire and was from a village in the mountainous southeastern corner of present-day Bulgaria. Mehmed Talaat had a powerful build and a dark complexion. His manners were gruff, which caused him to leave the civil preparatory school without a certificate after a conflict with his teacher. Without earning a degree, he joined the staff of the telegraph company as a postal clerk in Adrianople. His salary was not high, so he worked after hours as a Turkish language teacher in the Alliance Israelite School which served the Jewish community of Adrianople.\n\nAt the age of 21 he had a love affair with the daughter of the Jewish headmaster for whom he worked. He was caught sending a telegram saying \"Things are going well. I'll soon reach my goal.\" With two of his friends from the post office, he was charged with tampering with the official telegraph and arrested in 1893. He claimed that the message in question was to his girlfriend. The Jewish girl came forward to defend him. Sentenced to two years in jail, he was pardoned but exiled to Salonica (Thessaloniki) as a postal clerk.\n\nHe married Hayriye Hanım (later known as Hayriye Talaat Bafralı), a young girl from Ioannina on 19 March 1910.\n\nBetween 1898 and 1908 he served as a postman on the staff of the Salonica Post Office. Eventually, having served 10 years at this postal unit, he became head of the Salonica Post Office.\n\nIn 1908, he was dismissed from membership in the Committee of Union and Progress (CUP), the nucleus of the Young Turks movement. However, after the Young Turk Revolution of 1908, he became deputy for Adrianople in the Ottoman Parliament, and in July 1909, he was appointed minister of interior affairs. He became minister of posts, and then secretary-general of the CUP in 1912.\n\nAfter the assassination of the prime minister (grand vizier), Mahmud Şevket Pasha, in July 1913, Talaat Pasha again became minister of interior affairs. Talaat, with Enver Pasha and Djemal Pasha, formed a group later known as the Three Pashas. These men formed the triumvirate that ran the Ottoman government until the end of World War I in October 1918.\n\nAccording to various sources, Talaat Pasha had developed plans to eliminate the Armenians as early as 1910. Danish philologist Johannes Østrup wrote in his memoirs that in the autumn of 1910, Talaat talked openly about his plans to \"exterminate\" the Armenians with him. According to Østrup, Talaat stated: \"If I ever come to power in this country, I will use all my might to exterminate the Armenians.\" In November of that year, a decision to carry out such a plan was made in Salonica (Thessaloniki) where a secret conference was held by prominent members of the CUP. The conference concluded that the Ottoman Empire, which promoted equality among Muslims and non-Muslims alike, was not ideologically compatible anymore, and that the Ottoman Empire should adopt a policy of Turkification. Talaat, who attended the conference, was a leading advocate of this policy shift and stated in a speech that \"there can be no question of equality, until we have succeeded in our task of ottomanizing the Empire.\" Such a decision ultimately required the assimilation of non-Turkish elements within the empire and if necessary, it could be done through force. British ambassador Gerard Lowther concluded after the conference, \"[that the] committee have given up any idea of Ottomanizing all the non-Turkish elements by sympathetic and Constitutional ways has long been manifest. To them 'Ottoman' evidently means 'Turk' and their present policy of 'Ottomanization' is one of pounding the non-Turkish elements in a Turkish mortar.\"\n\nTalaat, along with Enver and Cemal, eventually represented the radical faction of the committee. In 1913, the faction ultimately seized power through a violent coup establishing the rule of the Three Pashas, which was also known as the \"dictatorial triumvirate\". The Three Pashas then became largely responsible for the Ottoman Empire's entry into World War I. With the start of World War I, the Three Pashas found a suitable opportunity to begin their campaign of exterminating the Armenians of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nOn 24 April 1915, Talaat issued an to close all Armenian political organizations operating within the Ottoman Empire and arrest Armenians connected to them, justifying the action by stating that the organizations were controlled from outside the empire, were inciting upheavals behind the Ottoman lines, and were cooperating with Russian forces. This order resulted in the arrest on the night of 24–25 April 1915 of 235 to 270 Armenian community leaders in Constantinople (Istanbul), including politicians, clergymen, physicians, authors, journalists, lawyers, and teachers, the majority of whom were eventually murdered. Although the mass killings of Armenian civilians had begun in the vilayet of Van several weeks earlier, these mass arrests in Constantinople are considered by many commentators to be the start of the Armenian Genocide.\n\nTalaat then issued the order for the Tehcir Law of 1 June 1915 to 8 February 1916 that allowed for the mass deportation of Armenians, a principal means of carrying out the Armenian Genocide. The deportees did not receive any humanitarian assistance and there is no evidence that the Ottoman government provided the extensive facilities and supplies that would have been necessary to sustain the life of hundreds of thousands of Armenian deportees during their forced march to the Syrian desert or after. Meanwhile, the deportees were subject to periodic rape and massacre, often the result of direct orders by the CUP. Talaat, who was a telegraph operator from a young age, had installed a telegraph machine in his own home and sent \"sensitive\" telegrams during the course of the deportations. This was confirmed by Talaat's wife Hayriye, who stated that she often saw him using it to give direct orders to what she believed were provincial governors. In a session of the Ottoman parliament, Ottoman statesman Reshid Akif Pasha testified that he had uncovered documents which demonstrated the process by which official statements made use of vague terminology when ordering deportation only to be clarified by special orders of \"massacres\" sent directly from CUP headquarters or often from the residence of Talaat himself. He testified:\n\nHasan Tahsin Uzer, Governor of Erzurum, similarly testified during the Mamuretulaziz (now Elazig) trial that the special forces unit Special Organization (Teşkilât-ı Mahsusa), under the command of Behaeddin Shakir, was mobilized to kill Armenians and that this organization was in constant contact with the Ministry of Interior. He explained:\n\nOther sources also point to such telegrams directing massacre being sent from Talaat Pasha. Rafael de Nogales Méndez, a Venuzelan officer who served the Ottoman Army, visited Diyarbakır on 26 June 1915 and spoke with the governor Mehmet Reşid, who was later known as the \"butcher of Diyarbakir\". Nogales Méndez recounts in his memoirs that Reşid mentioned to him that he received a telegram directly from Talaat ordering him to \"burn-destroy-kill\". Abdulahad Nuri, an official in charge of the deportations, testified during the Turkish courts-martial of 1919–20 that he had been told by Talaat that the goal of the deportations was \"extermination\" and that he \"personally received the orders of extermination\" from Talaat himself. In many instances, there had been additional instructions to \"destroy\" the telegrams after they had been read.\n\nIn a memorandum sent to Berlin demanding the removal of German ambassador Paul Wolff Metternich because he interceded on behalf of the Armenians, Talaat reaffirmed such a commitment: \"the work must be done now, after the war it will be too late.\" By the end of the war, the subsequent German ambassador Johann von Bernstorff described his discussion with Talaat: \"When I kept on pestering him about the Armenian question, he once said with a smile: 'What on earth do you want? The question is settled, there are no more Armenians'\". A similar statement by Talaat was made to Swedish military attaché Einar af Wirsén: \"The way the Armenian problem was solved was hair-raising. I can still see in front of me Talaat's cynical expression, when he emphasized that the Armenian question was solved.\" Talaat is reported to have said the following to American ambassador Henry Morgenthau, Sr. (as recorded in \"Ambassador Morgenthau's Story\"), who confronted Talaat on several occasions: \"I have accomplished more toward solving the Armenian problem in three months than Abdulhamid II accomplished in thirty years!\" Morgenthau then relates an exchange he had with Talaat:\n\nIn another exchange, Talaat demanded from Morgenthau the list of the holders of American insurance policies belonging to dead Armenians in an effort to appropriate the funds to the state. Morgenthau categorically refused his request describing it as \"one of the most astonishing requests I have ever heard.\"\n\nNotable Turkish politicians and figures also condemned the policy. Turkish feminist Halide Edip, writing in her memoirs, captured a defiant reaction from Talaat Pasha when she probed him on the deportations and extermination. He allegedly told her that he was of the conviction that as long as a nation does what is best for its own interests and succeeds, the world admires it. Abdülmecid II, the last Caliph of Islam of the Ottoman Dynasty, said: \"I refer to those awful massacres. They are the greatest stain that has ever disgraced our nation and race. They were entirely the work of Talat and Enver.\"\n\nTalaat Pasha was also a leading force in the Turkification and deportation of Kurds. In 1916 he was a major force behind the policies regarding the resettlements of Kurds and wanted to be informed whether the Kurds would really be turkifyed or not and how they get along with the Turkish habitants in the areas where they had been resettled too. \n\nIn 1917, Talaat became the Grand Vizier of the Ottoman Empire, a post equivalent to that of prime minister, but was unable to reverse the downward spiral of Ottoman fortunes in his new position.\n\nOver the next year, Jerusalem and Baghdad were lost. On January 11, 1918, the special decree \"On Armenia\" was signed by Lenin and Stalin which rearmed and repatriated over 100,000 Armenians from the former Tsar's Army to be sent to the Caucasus for operations against Ottoman interests. At the beginning of January 1918 with the Tsarist Army of the Caucasus departing, he had been influential in pursuing an offensive policy, convinced that despite all the pacifist rhetoric coming from Moscow 'the Russian leopard had not changed its spots'. The fall of Kars on 25 April 1918 reversed Russia's last conquest from the Berlin Treaty (1878) and Ottoman Turkey restored the 1877 borders against its Russian enemy. In October 1918 however, the British shattered both Ottoman armies they faced – and the armistice the British forced on Turkey at Mudros (30 October 1918) obliged the Ottoman army to evacuate Transcaucasia. With defeat certain, Talaat had resigned on 14 October 1918.\n\nTalaat Pasha fled the Ottoman capital in a German submarine on 3 November 1918, from Constantinople harbour to Berlin. Just a week later the Ottoman Porte capitulated to the Allies and signed the Armistice of Mudros.\n\nPublic opinion was shocked by the departure of Talaat Pasha, even though he had been known to turn a blind eye on corrupt ministers appointed because of their associations with the CUP. Talaat Pasha had a reputation for being courageous and patriotic, the type of individual who would willingly face the consequences of his actions. With the occupation of Constantinople, Izzet Pasha resigned. Tevfik Pasha took the position of grand vizier the same day that British ships entered the Golden Horn. Tevfik Pasha lasted until 4 March 1919, replaced by Ferid Pasha whose first order was the arrest of leading members of the CUP.\n\nFollowing the occupation of Constantinople by the Allied Powers, the British exerted pressure on the Ottoman Porte and brought to trial the Ottoman leaders who had held positions of responsibility between 1914 and 1918 for having committed, among other charges, the Armenian Genocide. Those who were caught were put under arrest at the Bekirağa division and were subsequently exiled to Malta. The courts-martial were designed by Sultan Mehmed VI to punish the Committee of Union and Progress for the empire's ill-conceived involvement in World War I. The Pashas who had held the highest positions in the administration and whose names were at the top of the execution lists of the Armenian assassination teams could be condemned in absentia because they had gone abroad.\n\nBy January 1919, a report to Sultan Mehmed VI accused over 130 suspects, most of whom were high officials. The indictment accused the main defendants, including Talaat, of being \"mired in an unending chain of bloodthirstiness, plunder and abuses\". They were accused of deliberately engineering Turkey's entry into the war \"by a recourse to a number of vile tricks and deceitful means\". They were also accused of \"the massacre and destruction of the Armenians\" and of trying to \"pile up fortunes for themselves\" through \"the pillage and plunder\" of their possessions. The indictment alleged that \"The massacre and destruction of the Armenians were the result of decisions by the Central Committee of Ittihadd\". The Court released its verdict on 5 July 1919: Talaat, Enver, Cemal, and Dr. Nazim were condemned to death in absentia.\n\nThe British were determined not to leave Talaat alone. The British had intelligence reports indicating that he had gone to Germany, and the British High Commissioner pressured Damad Ferit Pasha and the Sublime Porte to demand that Germany return him to the Ottoman Empire. As a result of efforts pursued personally by (Sir) Andrew Ryan, a former Dragoman and now a member of the British intelligence service, Germany responded to the Ottoman Empire stating that it was willing to be helpful if official papers could be produced showing these persons had been found guilty, and added that the presence of these persons in Germany could not as yet be ascertained.\n\nThe last official interview Talaat granted was to Aubrey Herbert, a British intelligence agent. It was nine days before his assassination. The interview was conducted during a series of short meetings in a park in a small German town. The interview gave chance to Talaat to explain the policies of the Ottoman Empire during the last 10 years.\n\nThese meetings corroborated earlier intelligence to the effect that Talaat Pasha was seeking support from Muslim countries to form a serious opposition movement against the Allied Powers, and that he was soon intending to take refuge in Ankara, where the Turkish national movement was forming. Furthermore, Talaat Pasha also threatened that he was going to incite the Pan-Turanist and Pan-Islamist movements against the United Kingdom unless it signed a peace treaty favorable for Turkey.\n\nDuring this interview, Talaat maintained on several occasions that the CUP had always sought British friendship and advice, but that Britain was in no mood to offer any assistance whatsoever.\n\nBefore the assassination, the British intelligence services identified Talaat in Stockholm, where he had gone for a few days. The British intelligence first planned to apprehend him in Berlin, where he was planning to return, but then changed its mind because it feared the complications this would create in Germany. Another view in British intelligence was that Talaat should be apprehended by the Royal Navy at sea while returning from Scandinavia by ship. In the end, it was decided to let him return to Berlin, find out what he was trying to accomplish with his activities abroad, and to establish direct contact with him before giving the final verdict. This was achieved with the help of Aubrey Herbert.\n\nThe British intelligence service established contact with its counterpart in the Soviet Union to evaluate the situation. Talaat Pasha's plans made the Russian officials as anxious as the British. The two intelligence services collaborated and signed between them the 'death warrant' of Talaat. Information concerning his physical description and his whereabouts was forwarded to their men in Germany.\n\nIt was decided that Armenian revolutionaries should carry out the verdict. Talaat was assassinated with a single bullet on 15 March 1921 as he came out of his house in Hardenbergstrasse, Charlottenburg. His assassin was an Armenian Revolutionary Federation member from Erzurum named Soghomon Tehlirian. Soghomon Tehlirian admitted committing the shooting, but after a cursory two-day trial, he was found innocent by a German court on grounds of temporary insanity because of the traumatic experience he had gone through during the genocide.\n\nTalaat Pasha received widespread condemnation across the world for his leading role in the Armenian Genocide. He was found guilty of massacre of Armenians and sentenced to death in absentia by the Turkish Court on July 5, 1919. Commenting on the widespread rape, torture and killings of the Armenians, U.S. Ambassador to the Ottoman Empire Henry Morgenthau wrote in his 1919 memoir:\n\nShortly after the assassination of Talaat in March 1921, the \"Posthumous Memoirs of Talaat\" was published in the October volume of \"The New York Times Current History\". In his memoir, Talaat admitted to purposefully deporting the Armenians to the Ottoman Empire's eastern provinces in a prepared scheme. He however blamed Armenian civilians themselves for the deportations, implying the civilian population could have caused a revolution and it was therefore justified to exterminate them.\nHe was buried in the Turkish Cemetery in Berlin. In 1943, his remains were taken to Istanbul and reburied in Şişli.\n\nTalaat Pasha, Enver Pasha and Djemal Pasha are widely considered the main authors of the Armenian Genocide by historians.\n\nHistorians have cited the influence of the Armenian Genocide on the Holocaust, which took place a few decades later. Records show the Nazis discussing and praising the Turkish model of extermination as early as the 1920s.\n\nWithin modern Turkey, criticism also focuses on Talaat and the rest of the Three Pashas for causing the Ottoman Empire's entry into World War I and its subsequent partitioning by the Allies. Turkey's founder Mustafa Kemal Atatürk widely criticized Talaat Pasha and his colleagues for their policies during and immediately prior to the First World War.\n\nA multitude of streets in Turkey display his name, as well as a street in the city of Paphos in the Republic of Cyprus that contains a large Turkish minority.\n\nTalaat is depicted in two films:\n\n\nNotes\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1853437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853437", "title": "Water spot", "text": "Water spot\n\nA water spot is an area of dried mineral deposits left on a surface after being allowed to air dry. Water quality, specifically the amount and type of minerals in the local water supply as measured by the total suspended solids or TSS test and other mineral levels such as sodium level, has a big effect on how severe water spots can be, for example on an automobile or dishes. Water spots can be avoided by drying after washing using a \"shammy\" cloth or towel for a car and a good drying cycle in a dishwasher, or by manual drying or good drainage after manually washing dishes.\n\nFor permeable materials, such as a drywall ceiling, water spots or stains are permanent indicators of water damage and previous leaks.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853441", "title": "Freddie Goodwin", "text": "Freddie Goodwin\n\nFreddie Goodwin (28 June 1933 – 19 February 2016) was an English professional football player and manager. He also played county cricket for Lancashire.\n\nA wing half, Goodwin was signed as a trainee from Cheshire Schoolboys by Manchester United on 1 October 1953 as one of the Busby Babes. He made his senior debut for the club on 20 November 1954 against Arsenal. He helped the club win the 1956 and 1957 league championships, and was a member of the United team that made a comeback from the Munich air disaster that claimed the lives of eight players and ended the careers of two others, to reach the 1958 FA Cup Final, losing 2–0 to Bolton Wanderers. He was not on the plane to Munich, having not been selected in the squad for the quarter-final second leg tie with Red Star Belgrade of Yugoslavia.\n\nIn his United career, he scored eight goals in 107 appearances. He was signed by Leeds United on 16 March 1960 for £10,000. In the 1963–64 season, a collision with former Leeds teammate John Charles in an FA Cup tie against Cardiff City caused him to suffer a triple fracture of his leg, eventually resulting in his retirement from playing on 1 December 1964. He scored two goals in 120 appearances for Leeds.\n\nGoodwin went on to become a player-manager at Scunthorpe United, although he did not play many games due to his injury, making six appearances and scoring one goal for the club. He left Scunthorpe United on 1 June 1966 and then became manager for the New York Generals (appearing in one match) and Brighton & Hove Albion, before becoming manager of Second Division club Birmingham City. It was at Birmingham where he introduced the young Trevor Francis into league football. At Birmingham, he was also known for introducing yoga, psychological testing and other new training techniques.\n\nGoodwin also made 11 first-class appearances for Lancashire County Cricket Club (1955–1956) as a right-arm fast-medium bowler.\n\nGoodwin later moved to the United States to coach and serve as president of the Minnesota Kicks; he also coached Tacoma Stars. He lived Washington state where he also had a travel agency. He died of cancer at Gig Harbor, Washington, on 19 February 2016 at the age of 82.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853443", "title": "R21 (South Africa)", "text": "R21 (South Africa)\n\nThe R21 / P157 is a major north-south provincial route (with a freeway portion designated as a National Road) in eastern Gauteng Province, South Africa. Built in the early 1970s, it remains one of two freeways (the other being the N1) linking Pretoria with Johannesburg, via the R24. As the eastern of the two freeways, it links the Pretoria city centre with OR Tambo International Airport, the N12 freeway, and Boksburg. Between the Solomon Mahlangu Drive on-ramp in Monument Park, Pretoria, and the N12 in Boksburg, the R21 / P157 is an 8 lane highway and motorway (freeway), with 4 lanes in each direction. It has off-ramps leading to Irene, Olifantsfontein, Benoni, and Kempton Park, including a partial offramp to Atlas Road. The route intersects the N1 Highway (Eastern Pretoria Bypass; Danie Joubert Freeway) near Centurion, the R24 near the airport, the N12 and N17 in Boksburg, and the N3 near Vosloorus on the East Rand, where it ends. The section from the N12 to the N3 is not a freeway. As early as the 1970s there were proposals to extend the R21 / P157 freeway further south and the freeway may be linked with the current eastern terminus of the M2 in Germiston in future. \n\nThe R21 / P157 is the lowest \"R\" designated route number in South Africa, since numbers 1-18 have been reserved for national route numbers. However a portion of the R21 / P157 where is exists as a freeway, from Hans Strijdom Drive (now Solomon Mahlangu Drive) in Pretoria, to the N12 Freeway in the East Rand is both a National Road and a toll road, having been declared such in 2008, as part of the Gauteng Freeway Improvement Project, when it was also transferred to the South African National Roads Agency. The improvement project increased the number of lanes (previously, the freeway portion had been a dual carriageway freeway, with 2 lanes in each direction, from the Rietfontein Interchange to Pretoria), and installed lighting along the length of the freeway section.\n\nThe R21 begins just north-east of Fountains Valley in Pretoria as Nelson Mandela Drive, at a roundabout intersection with the M18 Christina De Wit Avenue, M7, M5 and M3 Metropolitan roads of Pretoria, heading south-east. After Fountains Valley, the R21 passes by Monument Park. After Monument Park, the R21 becomes a National Road (it becomes an e-toll highway; with open road tolling), with the first off-ramp being the M10 Solomon Mahlangu Drive (formerly Hans Strijdom Drive) near the Waterkloof Airforce Base. It has Pretoria East to its east and Centurion to its west.\n\nJust after Solomon Mahlangu Drive, near the suburb of Pierre van Ryneveld Park, the R21 intersects with the N1 Highway (Danie Joubert Freeway; Pretoria Eastern Bypass), which is the freeway between Johannesburg and Polokwane. The Interchange is named the Flying Saucer Interchange. After The N1 Interchange, the R21 Freeway has 10 off-ramps and interchanges for the remaining length of its freeway section. It passes through various suburbs in various cities.\n\nThe R21 intersects with the M31 (Irene Off-ramp), R562 (Olifantsfontein Off-ramp), R25 (Birchleigh/Tembisa Off-ramp), R23 (Benoni Off-ramp), M32 (Pomona Off-ramp), M43 (Atlas Off-ramp), M96 (Kempton Park Central Off-ramp), R24 (O.R. Tambo International Airport Interchange), M41 (Jet Park Off-ramp) and N12 (Rietfontein Interchange).\n\nAfter the M31 Irene off-ramp, the R21 leaves the City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality and enters the City of Ekurhuleni Metropolitan Municipality. From the M31 Irene off-ramp up to just after the O.R. Tambo International Airport, the R21 is followed by the M57 Metropolitan Route of Johannesburg from north to south (which can be used as an alternative route to avoid being charged fees by the e-toll system or when there are roadworks on the highway). From the R562 off-ramp to the R25 off-ramp, the R21 bypasses the township of Tembisa.\n\nAt the O.R. Tambo International Airport, south-east of Kempton Park Central, the R21 meets the R24 which connects the airport with Johannesburg Central in the west. Via the R24 (named the Albertina Sisulu Freeway), the R21 is the only freeway apart from the Ben Schoeman Freeway (designated as the N1) that links Pretoria with Johannesburg.\n\nNorth of Boksburg (just after the Jet Park off-ramp), the R21 intersects with the N12 Highway to Johannesburg in the west and Witbank in the east at the Rietfontein Interchange, which marks the end of the R21 being both a freeway and a toll road (e-toll highway). The R21 becomes Rietfontein Road when it junctions with the M44 Road at the East Rand Mall (just after the N12). At the suburb of Boksburg North, the R21 continues by way of a right turn at Rondebult Road. The R21 then meets the R29 (Cason Road) and continues south, bypassing Boksburg Central.\n\nAfter Boksburg, the R21 crosses the N17 Highway at Elspark and continues south through Sunward Park. After Sunward Park, the R21 heads south-south-east, meeting the R554 (North Boundary Road) and intersects the M43 Road (Barry Marais Road) for the second time at a t-junction in Dawn Park.\n\nThe R21 and the M43 are co-signed south-west. As Bierman Road, the R21/M43 pass over the M35 Road (Germiston-Heidelberg Road), intersect with the R103, and end at Vosloorus at an intersection with the N3 Freeway (Johannesburg-Durban Highway).\n\nAs the R24 Freeway is known as the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\" in Ekurhuleni between Eastgate Shopping Centre and Johannesburg International Airport, the use of the name doesn't end there. The R21 is often also called the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\", Particularly the section from the Johannesburg International Airport interchange north to the N1 Pretoria Eastern Bypass Flying Saucer interchange near Centurion and Pretoria in the City of Tshwane Metropolitan Municipality. It indicates that the R21 from Pretoria to the airport and the R24 from there to Bedfordview are together known as the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\".\n\nThe naming of the R24 Highway from Bedfordview eastwards, together with the R21 freeway from OR Tambo International Airport northwards to Pretoria as the \"Albertina Sisulu Freeway\" was already done by the time of the 2010 FIFA World Cup. Also, the R21 extension from OR Tambo International Airport to the N12 Interchange north of Boksburg may be counted as being part of the Albertina Sisulu Freeway.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853446", "title": "Zygmunt Gorgolewski", "text": "Zygmunt Gorgolewski\n\nZygmunt Gorgolewski (February 14, 1845 in Solec – July 6, 1903 in Lviv) was a Polish architect, renowned for his construction of the Grand Theatre in Lviv.\n\nGorgolewski was born in Solec (Schulitz), Grand Duchy of Posen, Kingdom of Prussia. Between 1866 and 1871 he studied in Berlin at the Royal Building Academy. During his studies, Gorgolewski also supervised the construction of Lehrte Train Station in Berlin. After graduating, for six years he worked as an assistant in his alma mater. After that he became an advisor at the Prussian Ministry of Public Works, official royal palace architect and architecture inspector (Königlicher Regierungsbaumeister) in Halle upon Saale. Gorgolewski was one of the most notable supporters of historicism in architecture in the Kingdom of Prussia and then the German Empire. \nAmong his projects were two versions of the future Reichstag building, which he proposed in 1872 and then in 1882. His projects were among merely 20 chosen by the committee out of more than 100. However, in the end his ideas for these projects were refused. At the same time, Gorgolewski was awarded with the construction of Kaiser Wilhelm's Bridge. Other, more successful, projects include the plans of refurbishment of royal palaces in Berlin and in Kiel, expansion of University Hospitals in Halle upon Saale and Bonn, the Bathhouse IV (1883-1885, now numbered II) of Bad Oeynhausen spa in Westphalia. In addition, he contributed plans for the projected new construction of the Berlin Supreme Parish and Collegiate Church, and worked on renovating Bellevue Palace, and created as main architect courthouses in Opole (Oppeln) and Olsztyn (Allenstein), as well as prisons in Świdnica (Schweidnitz) and Chorzów (Königshütte). \n\nIn the Greater Poland region, Gorgolewski conducted the construction of many notable palaces both in and around Poznań. His works include:\n\nHe was also appointed as the main architect of the refurbishment of the palace of Ferdynand Radziwiłł in Ołyka, Volhynia. During his stay there, Gorgolewski for the first time visited Vilnius, Kraków, Kiev and Lviv. The latter city enjoyed a period of fast expansion and in 1875 Gorgolewski took part in the contest for the project of the future Diet of Galicia and Lodomeria. His project was the most disputed and highly praised, but it was finally turned down, mostly due to financial reasons. \n\nIn 1879, Gorgolewski married Helena née Hulewicz. He was also an active member of many architectural juries across partitioned Poland. Among others, he was the member of the jury during the contest for the project of Kraków Old Theatre (1889), the bank in Czerniowce and Church of St. Elizabeth in Lviv. In 1893 he moved to Lviv, where he was chosen as the main architect of the Grand Theatre (1897–1900). To avoid being accused of using his well-established position in society, Gorgolewski prepared his winning project of the theatre in secret and then sent it under a false name from Leipzig. Other notable building of his authorship was the Industrial School in the same city.\n\nGorgolewski died in Lviv and was buried in the Lychakiv Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853450", "title": "Virtual press conference", "text": "Virtual press conference\n\nA virtual press conference is a type of virtual event much like a news conference. It is a conference where the speaker is sitting in a chair in a studio for example whilst the video and audio are relayed via satellite to another location. \n\nJournalists call into the conference to ask their questions. This saves time and money for the personality being interviewed as there is no need for them to move from one location to another. This is used more and more frequently, for example during times of crisis when organizations use their communications department to keep people informed.\n"}
{"id": "1853462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853462", "title": "Marcin Zamoyski", "text": "Marcin Zamoyski\n\nMarcin Zamoyski (c. 1637–1689) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nMarcin became the fourth Ordynat of Zamość estate in 1674. He became a Royal Rotmistrz in 1656, Podstoli of Lwów in 1677, voivode of Bracław Voivodeship in 1678, voivode of Lublin Voivodeship in 1682 and Grand Treasurer of the Crown in 1685. He was starost of Belz, Płoskirów, Bolimów and Rostoki.\n"}
{"id": "1853472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853472", "title": "Dog-whistle politics", "text": "Dog-whistle politics\n\nDog-whistle politics is political messaging employing coded language that appears to mean one thing to the population of the general public at large while also simultaneously having an additional, different, or more specific resonance for a targeted subgroup. The analogy is to a dog whistle, whose ultrasonic tone is heard by dogs but inaudible to humans.\n\nThe term is often confused with \"code words\" used in some specialist professions, but can be distinguished in that dog-whistling is specific to the political realm, and the messaging referred to as the dog-whistle has an understandable meaning for a general audience, rather than being incomprehensible.\n\nAccording to William Safire, the term \"dog whistle\" in reference to politics may have been derived from its use in the field of opinion polling. Safire quotes Richard Morin, director of polling for \"The Washington Post\", as writing in 1988, \"subtle changes in question-wording sometimes produce remarkably different results ... researchers call this the 'Dog Whistle Effect': Respondents hear something in the question that researchers do not\". He speculates that campaign workers adapted the phrase from political pollsters.\n\nIn her 2006 book, \"Voting for Jesus: Christianity and Politics in Australia\", academic Amanda Lohrey writes that the goal of the dog-whistle is to appeal to the greatest possible number of electors while alienating the smallest possible number. She uses as an example politicians choosing broadly appealing words such as \"family values\", which have extra resonance for Christians, while avoiding overt Christian moralizing that might be a turn-off for non-Christian voters.\n\nAustralian political theorist Robert E. Goodin argues that the problem with dog-whistling is that it undermines democracy, because if voters have different understandings of what they were supporting during a campaign, the fact that they were seeming to support the same thing is \"democratically meaningless\" and does not give the dog-whistler a policy mandate.\n\nThe term was first picked up in Australian politics in the mid-1990s, and was frequently applied to the political campaigning of John Howard. Throughout his 11 years as Australian prime minister and particularly in his fourth term, Howard was accused of communicating messages appealing to anxious Australian voters using code words such as \"un-Australian\", \"mainstream\", and \"illegals\".\n\nOne notable example was the Howard government's message on refugee arrivals. His government's tough stance on immigration was popular with voters, but was accused of using the issue to additionally send veiled messages of support to voters with racist leanings, while maintaining plausible deniability by avoiding overtly racist language. Another example was the publicity of the Australian citizenship test in 2007. It has been argued that the test may appear reasonable at face value, but is really intended to appeal to those opposing immigration from particular geographic regions.\n\nDuring the 2015 Canadian federal election, the Conservative party led by incumbent Prime Minister Stephen Harper was accused of communicating \"code\" words in a debate to appeal to his party's base supporters. Midway through the election campaign the Conservative Party hired Australian political strategist Lynton Crosby as a political adviser when they fell to third place in the polls behind the Liberal Party and the New Democratic Party. During a televised election debate Stephen Harper, while discussing the government's controversial decision to remove certain immigrants and refugee claimants from accessing Canada's health care system made reference to 'Old Stock Canadians' as being in support of the government's position. Opposition leaders, including former Quebec Liberal MP Marlene Jennings, called his words racist and divisive, as they are used to exclude Canadians of colour.\n\nLynton Crosby, who had previously managed John Howard's four election campaigns in Australia, worked as a Conservative Party adviser during the 2005 UK general election, and the term was introduced to British political discussion at this time. In what Goodin calls \"the classic case\" of dog-whistling, Crosby created a campaign for the Conservatives with the slogan \"Are you thinking what we're thinking?\": a series of posters, billboards, TV commercials and direct mail pieces with messages like \"It's not racist to impose limits on immigration\" and \"how would you feel if a bloke on early release attacked your daughter?\" focused on controversial issues like insanitary hospitals, land grabs by squatters and restraints on police behaviour.\n\nLabour MP Diane Abbott described the 2013 \"Go Home\" vans advertising campaign by the British Home Office as an example of dog-whistle politics.\n\nIn April 2016, Mayor of London and Conservative MP Boris Johnson was accused of \"dog whistle racism\" by Shadow Chancellor of the Exchequer and Labour MP John McDonnell when Johnson suggested U.S. President Barack Obama held a grudge against the United Kingdom due to his \"ancestral dislike of the British Empire\" as a result of his \"part-Kenyan\" heritage, after Obama expressed his support for the UK to vote to remain in the European Union ahead of the UK's referendum on EU membership.\n\nIn the 2016 London Mayoral Election, Conservative candidate Zac Goldsmith was accused of running a dog-whistle campaign against Labour's Sadiq Khan, playing on Khan's Muslim faith by suggesting he would target Hindus and Sikhs with a \"jewellery tax\" and attempting to link him to extremists.\n\nTheresa May was accused of dog-whistle politics during the run up to the UK leaving the European Union, after claiming EU citizens were 'jumping the queue'.\n\nThe Labour Party under Jeremy Corbyn has been accused of tolerating \"dog-whistle\" anti-Semitism in the party since he took the lead of the party.\n\nThe phrase \"states' rights\", literally referring to powers of individual state governments in the United States, was described in 2007 by David Greenberg in \"Slate\" as \"code words\" for institutionalized segregation and racism. \"States' rights\" was the banner under which groups like the Defenders of State Sovereignty and Individual Liberties argued in 1955 against school desegregation. In 1981, former Republican Party strategist Lee Atwater, when giving an anonymous interview discussing Nixon's Southern Strategy, said:\n\nAtwater was contrasting this with Ronald Reagan's campaign, which he felt \"was devoid of any kind of racism, any kind of reference.\" However, Ian Haney López, an American law professor and author of the 2014 book \"Dog Whistle Politics\", described Reagan as \"blowing a dog whistle\" when the candidate told stories about \"Cadillac-driving 'welfare queens' and 'strapping young bucks' buying T-bone steaks with food stamps\" while he was campaigning for the presidency. He argues that such rhetoric pushes middle-class white Americans to vote against their economic self-interest in order to punish \"undeserving minorities\" who, they believe, are receiving too much public assistance at their expense. According to López, conservative middle-class whites, convinced by powerful economic interests that minorities are the enemy, supported politicians who promised to curb illegal immigration and crack down on crime but inadvertently also voted for policies that favor the extremely rich, such as slashing taxes for top income brackets, giving corporations more regulatory control over industry and financial markets, union busting, cutting pensions for future public employees, reducing funding for public schools, and retrenching the social welfare state. He argues that these same voters cannot link rising inequality which has impacted their lives to the policy agendas they support, which resulted in a massive transfer of wealth to the top 1% of the population since the 1980s.\n\nJournalist Craig Unger wrote that President George W. Bush and Karl Rove used coded \"dog-whistle\" language in political campaigning, delivering one message to the overall electorate while at the same time delivering quite a different message to a targeted evangelical Christian political base. William Safire, in \"Safire's Political Dictionary\", offered the example of Bush's criticism during the 2004 presidential campaign of the U.S. Supreme Court's 1857 \"Dred Scott\" decision denying the U.S. citizenship of any African American. To most listeners the criticism seemed innocuous, Safire wrote, but \"sharp-eared observers\" understood the remark to be a pointed reminder that Supreme Court decisions can be reversed, and a signal that, if re-elected, Bush might nominate to the Supreme Court a justice who would overturn \"Roe v. Wade\". This view is echoed in a 2004 \"Los Angeles Times\" article by Peter Wallsten.\n\nDuring the 2008 Democratic primaries, writer Enid Lynette Logan criticized Hillary Clinton's campaign's reliance on code words and innuendo seemingly designed to frame Barack Obama's race as problematic, saying Obama was characterized by the Clinton campaign and its prominent supporters as anti-white due to his association with Rev. Jeremiah Wright, as able to attract only black votes, as anti-patriotic, a drug user, possibly a drug seller, and married to an angry, ungrateful black woman.\n\nIn 2012, journalist Soledad O'Brien used the phrase \"dog whistle\" to describe Tea Party Express representative Amy Kremer's accusation that Obama \"does not love America\".\n\nAlso in that election cycle, Obama's campaign ran an ad in Ohio that said Mitt Romney was \"not one of us\". The ad, which \"Washington Post\" journalist Karen Tumulty said \"echoes a slogan that has been used as a racial code over at least the past half-century\".\n\nDuring the 2014 Republican senate primary in Mississippi, a scandal emerged with politicians accused of attempting to influence the public by using such code words as \"food stamps\". Senator Ted Cruz called for an investigation, saying that \"the ads they ran were racially-charged false attacks\".\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election campaign and on a number of occasions throughout his presidency, Donald Trump has been accused of using racial and anti-Semitic \"dog whistling\" techniques by politicians and major news outlets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853473", "title": "Jim Fung", "text": "Jim Fung\n\nFung Chuen Keung (馮傳強; 16 May 1944 – 18 March 2007), known as Jim Fung, was a practitioner and teacher of Wing Chun kung fu and founder of the 'International Wing Chun Academy'. He had been training under his master, Tsui Seung Tin (徐尚田), since 1960. Tsui, was one of the students of Ip Man (葉問).\n\nJim Fung immigrated to Australia from Hong Kong in his late teens and studied accountancy and law at the University of Adelaide, graduating with a bachelor's degree in accounting. He is the author of two books, Wing Chun Kung Fu and Wing Chun Weapons, and produced a teaching video titled \"Wing Chun\", in 1985.\nFung was chosen to represent Chinese kung fu at the International Grandmasters' Martial Arts Exhibition in Adelaide, Australia, in 1989. However, he says the greatest honour thus far was having his Academy officially recognised by the Chinese Government and world ruling body for Chinese martial arts in the All China Martial Arts Register published in 1998.\n\nIn 1999, Fung was conferred the title of Grandmaster by Chu Shong Tin.\n\nFung had cancer and died in Sydney on March 18, 2007.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853475", "title": "Breakfast at Twilight", "text": "Breakfast at Twilight\n\n\"Breakfast at Twilight\" is a science fiction short story by American writer Philip K. Dick. It was received by the Scott Meredith Literary Agency on January 17, 1953 and first published in \"Amazing Stories\", July 1954.\n\nAfter experiencing a terrifying explosion, a middle-class American family finds their home in the middle of a wasteland. American soldiers burst in looking for survivors and supplies, under the family's amazed and frightened eyes. The soldiers are just as surprised, finding the home filled with items that are no longer available, and carrying away their food.\n\nThe soldiers explain that their home is one of the few to survive the ongoing nuclear war, which is now largely automated with underground factories on both sides of the conflict building missiles and destroying the other country square by square. The soldiers and family soon realize the home is out of its own time continuum, apparently having been blasted into the future by the force of the bombs. They find that the date is not long in the future; the war starts shortly after the time they left.\n\nThe soldiers tell the family a second wave of missiles will be arriving, intended to destroy anything that survived the first wave, and offer to take the family into a shelter. After some discussion, they refuse, considering it better to chance that the second wave will blast them back to their own time than live in this largely lifeless future.\n\nThe gambit succeeds and the family finds themselves in their own time, but with their house destroyed. Neighbors rush to the home, where the father, Tim McLean, agrees that the problem was an exploding central heating system. Then he comments, \"I should have got it fixed ... I should have had it looked at a long time ago. Before it got in such bad shape ... before it was too late\", a metaphor for the start of the war which may now be avoidable.\n\nReviewer Steven Owen Godersky proclaimed in his review that \"Phil Dick's third major theme is his fascination with war and his fear and hatred of it. One hardly sees critical mention of it, yet it is as integral to his body of work as oxygen is to water.\"\n"}
{"id": "1853477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853477", "title": "Harold Halse", "text": "Harold Halse\n\nHarold James Halse (1 January 1886 – 25 March 1949) was an English football forward, who played most of his career for Manchester United and then for Chelsea. He was the first player to appear in three FA Cup finals for three clubs. He is also the highest scoring player in a Charity Shield match, having scored six goals in the 1911 edition for Manchester United.\n\nHe was born in Stratford, London and started his football career as an amateur with Wanstead, Newportians, Barking Town and Clapton Orient, where he made two appearances with one goal in the Football League.\n\nHe then joined Southend United, scoring 91 goals in 65 appearances in the 1906–07 season. He transferred to Manchester United in 1908 for the maximum transfer fee allowed at that time, £350. He scored 56 goals in 125 appearances for United, and won the First Division title in 1908 and 1911, and the FA Cup in 1909. In the 1911 FA Charity Shield against Swindon Town, Halse scored six goals for United in an 8-4 win for his team.\n\nHe moved to Aston Villa for £1200 in 1912. He won the 1913 FA Cup with Villa and also scored all 5 when Aston Villa beat Derby County 5-1,but signed for Chelsea shortly afterwards. While at Chelsea Halse once again reached an FA Cup final, in 1915, although this time he finished on the losing side. He remained with Chelsea until 1921, scoring 25 goals in 111 games, and had a spell at Charlton Athletic before retiring in 1923.\n\nHalse was the first player to appear in three FA Cup finals for three clubs.\n\nHalse was capped once for England, in an 8-1 win over Austria on 1 June 1909. He scored twice in this game.\n\nHe died on 25 March 1949, aged 63.\n\nManchester United\n\nAston Villa\n\nChelsea\n"}
{"id": "1853478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853478", "title": "Oswald Balzer", "text": "Oswald Balzer\n\nOswald Marian Balzer (23 January 1858 in Chodorów – 11 January 1933 in Lwów) was a Polish historian of law and statehood, one of the most renowned Polish historians of his times.\n\nIn 1887 he became a professor at the University of Lwów. Between 1895 and 1896 he also briefly served as its rector. Since 1891 until his death he was also the director of City Archives in Lwów. His best work is \"Genealogia Piastów\" (1895).In 1888 he was offered a seat in the Polish Academy of Skills, as well as several other scientific societies, both in Poland and abroad. In 1901 he founded the Society for the Support of Polish Science in Lwów (\"Towarzystwo dla Popierania Nauki Polskiej we Lwowie\"), the first such society in the city, later to be renamed to Lwow Scientific Society (1920). Among the fields of his studies were the history of Polish statehood and Poland's historical law, as well as the early history of Slavic states.\n\nHe was buried in the Łyczakowski Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853479", "title": "Deuce (wrestler)", "text": "Deuce (wrestler)\n\nJames Wiley Smith Thomas Reiher Snuka (born September 1, 1971) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his time in World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) under the ring name as Deuce.\n\nThe son of professional wrestler Jimmy Snuka, Reiher began wrestling in the late 1990s, and worked for the UWA and the Xcitement Wrestling Federation. After signing a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), Reiher was assigned to WWE's developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) in Louisville, Kentucky in 2005, where he wrestled under the name Deuce Shade. He was placed in tag team competition, alongside Dice Domino. Along with their manager Cherry, the group were known as The Throw-Backs and later The Untouchable, and captured the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship on three occasions. Deuce also won the OVW Television Championship on one occasion in singles competition.\n\nThe group was called up to the SmackDown! roster in January 2007, and underwent a name change to Deuce 'n Domino. Three months later, Deuce 'n Domino won the WWE Tag Team Championship. After dropping the title in August 2007, the group disbanded in June 2008. Deuce moved to the Raw brand and became known as Sim Snuka, and the following year, on June 19, 2009, he was released from his WWE contract.\n\nAfter deciding to become a professional wrestler, Reiher trained with his father, Jimmy Snuka in New Jersey. He then began working under the ring name Solo in the UWA in California. During his time in UWA, he was offered a contract by World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), but turned it down in favor of a more lucrative contract from UWA. After the UWA went out of business in late 2001, Reiher began working for the Xcitement Wrestling Federation (XWF), a promotion run by Jimmy Hart, The Nasty Boys, and Greg Valentine. In XWF, he used the name Jimmy Snuka Jr. and was managed by his father. He appeared at the first round of XWF tapings in November 2001, defeating Buddy Lee Parker and Vapor in two separate matches.\n\nReiher made his debut in Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) on January 27, 2005 as Deuce Shade, defeating Brent Albright. On May 24, 2005, he defeated Chad Wicks in an OVW Television Championship tournament match. He later went on to beat Ken Doane in the tournament finals for the OVW Television Championship on June 7. He ended up losing it to Doane later that month. On August 24, Shade won a number one contenders battle royal to earn the right to face OVW Champion Johnny Jeter later that night, but he lost this match.\n\nIn January 2006, Shade started teaming with Dice Domino, calling themselves \"The Throw-Backs\". It was at this time that Cherry Pie began accompanying them to the ring, as their valet. They later changed their name to \"The Untouchables\", and removed the Shade, Dice, and Pie parts of their respective names. On March 19, Reiher defeated Mike Mizanin to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship for his team. The team lost their titles on April 5, in a three-way match to Roadkill and K.C James; the match also involved Kenny and Mikey of the Spirit Squad.\n\nIn mid-August 2006, The Untouchables quickly became embroiled in a scripted rivalry with Cody Runnels and Shawn Spears over the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. Runnels and Spears captured the title from The Untouchables on October 18. In November 2006, Runnels and Spears defeated The Untouchables in a tag team match, and won the services of their valet, Cherry. On November 29, the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship was vacated after a match between The Untouchables and Runnels and Spears ended in a draw. The following week, a rematch between the two teams was held for the vacant championship. During this match Cherry turned on Spears and Runnels, re-joining The Untouchables and helping them regain the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. Two weeks later, on December 20, Runnels and Spears defeated The Untouchables in a Street Fight to win the championship.\n\nOn the January 19, 2007 episode of \"SmackDown!\", the team, now using the name \"Deuce 'n Domino\", along with Cherry, debuted with their 1950s greaser in-ring persona. They quickly defeated a team of jobbers—wrestlers who consistently lose to make their opponents look stronger—and did the same to another jobber team the next week. On the February 2 episode of \"SmackDown!\", they defeated WWE Tag Team Champions Paul London and Brian Kendrick in a non-title match. They earned a chance at the championship at No Way Out, but failed to win the title. On the April 13 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Deuce and Domino got a chance at the tag titles again, but lost after Deuce got them disqualified. The next week on \"SmackDown!\", they defeated London and Kendrick to win the tag team titles. On the May 25 episode of \"SmackDown!\", London and Kendrick competed against William Regal and Dave Taylor, but Deuce and Domino interfered, resulting in Regal and Taylor being disqualified. This made both teams the number one contender, which led to a triple threat tag match the next week where Deuce and Domino retained the titles. On June 24, Deuce and Domino issued an open challenge at the pay-per-view event, , which was accepted by Jimmy Snuka (Deuce's father) and Sgt. Slaughter. Deuce and Domino retained their title.\n\nOn the June 29 episode of \"SmackDown!\", Domino suffered an injury during a match with Cryme Tyme, sidelining him for a month. After Domino's return, the team began a scripted rivalry with Batista and Ric Flair. On the August 31 episode of \"SmackDown!\", he and Domino lost their tag team title to Montel Vontavious Porter (MVP) and Matt Hardy. They engaged in a rivalry with MVP and Hardy, and attempted to regain their championship, but were unsuccessful.\n\nThroughout late 2007 and early 2008, Deuce 'n Domino wrestled sporadically, facing teams such as Jimmy Wang Yang and Shannon Moore, Jesse and Festus, and Finlay and Hornswoggle. On the May 23 episode of \"SmackDown\", Deuce and Domino parted ways with Cherry and replaced her with WWE Diva Maryse. After a series of losses, Deuce attacked Domino on the June 20, 2008 episode of \"SmackDown\" to end their partnership.\n\nAs part of the 2008 WWE Supplemental Draft, Deuce was drafted to the Raw brand. He made his debut for the brand on the September 22 airing of \"Raw\", losing to Santino Marella. On the December 15, 2008 episode of \"Raw\", Deuce announced that his new ring name would be \"Sim Snuka\", after revealing his father is Jimmy Snuka, and faced Rey Mysterio in a losing attempt; after Mysterio fell into Cody Rhodes and Manu, who were at ringside, they attacked Mysterio, and the match ended in a disqualification. Two weeks later, he defeated Charlie Haas (who was dressed as Snuka's father) to pass step one towards earning a spot in Randy Orton's Legacy faction. A week later, Snuka teamed with Rhodes against Cryme Tyme, with Rhodes getting the pinfall. It was revealed after the match that only the man who got the pinfall would advance into the group, leaving Snuka out. He, along with Manu, brought back Ted DiBiase to help them attack The Legacy, only to be betrayed and attacked by DiBiase, Orton and Rhodes.\n\nFollowing this, Snuka appeared rarely. His last WWE appearance was at WrestleMania XXV, where he posed as an unnamed cameraman during the match between Shawn Michaels and The Undertaker, and failed to catch The Undertaker during a suicide dive spot during the bout. He was released from his WWE contract on June 19, 2009.\n\nIn November, Snuka began to appear on promotional posters for shows in the NWA-Southwest and Phoenix regions, now under the name 'Simm Snuka'. On November 28, 2009 he made his debut for NWA, teaming with his father Jimmy Snuka to defeat Hellcat and Triple X at NWA New York Raging Gladiator Wrestling III. On November 30, he made a challenge to Blue Demon Jr. for a shot at his NWA World Heavyweight Championship in a match in Texas at the NWA Southwest Anniversary Show. However the match never occurred. On December 12, Snuka defeated GQ Gallo at another NWA branded event.\nOn October 24, 2009, Snuka and Lawrence Tyler defeated Devon Willis and Sonny Samson. After not wrestling for four years he returned to face Graves for the Championship Wrestling from Arizona Heavyweight Title. Snuka would win the match but not return to the promotion. The following year his only match was at a NWA/UCW event where he would be on the winning team of a six-man tag match alongside his father, it would be his last time teaming with him before his father's death. In 2017 his final match to date was competing in a Battle Royal for the APWA promotion.\n\nPrior to getting in the wrestling business, he worked as a youth counselor and a TV cameraman in Utah. Reiher is a former Mr. Hawaiian Islands in bodybuilding.\n\nHe is a second generation wrestler; his father James Reiher wrestled using the name Jimmy Snuka. Reiher's sister Sarona works for WWE as \"Tamina\". His daughter Penina attends the University of Arizona, where she plays volleyball for the Arizona Wildcats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853483", "title": "Debbie Austin", "text": "Debbie Austin\n\nDebbie Austin (born February 1, 1948) is an American professional golfer. \n\nAustin was born in Oneida, New York. She first played on the LPGA Tour in 1968 and went on to win seven tournaments, including five in 1977 when she tied with Judy Rankin for most on tour. She was named Player of the Year in 1977 by \"Golf Magazine\".\n\nShe won the Wills Qantas Australian Ladies Open in 1978. A recurring tendonitis problem plagued her during 1979 and 1980, but she returned to winning form in 1981 by winning the Mayflower Classic. With that victory, she established the tradition of the winner taking a plunge into the pool with General Chairman John B. Smith.\n\nShe has held a variety of positions since the end of her tour career, including a stint as a coach for the Rollins College ladies' golf team in Winter Park, Florida. She spent several years associated with Westchester Country Club in New York. She resides in Orlando, Florida and is the former head coach of the Bishop Moore Catholic High School girls' golf team. She is now retired but plays regularly at her home course, Orange Tree Golf Club.\n\nThe junior tees at Westchester Country Club are named after her.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853492", "title": "Hosanna", "text": "Hosanna\n\nHosanna () is a liturgical word in Judaism and Christianity. In Judaism, it is always used in its original Hebrew form, הושענא \"Hoshana\".\n\nThe word \"hosanna\" (Latin ', Greek , \"hōsanná\") is from Hebrew , ' and related to Aramaic (ʾōshaʿnā) meaning \"save, rescue, savior\".\nIn the Hebrew Bible it is used only in verses such as \"help\" or \"save, I pray\" ().\n\nIt is applied in numerous verses of the New Testament including \"Hosanna; blessed is the one who comes in the name of the Lord\" (), \"hosanna in the highest\" (); \"hosanna to the Son of David\" (). In that context, the word Hosanna seems to be a \"special kind of respect\" given to the one who saves, saved, will save or is saving now. If so Hosanna means \"a special honor to the one who saves\". The old interpretation \"Save, now!\", based on Psalm 118:25, does not fully explain the occurrence of the word in the Gospels as a shout of jubilation, and this has given rise to complex discussions.\n\nIn a liturgical context, it refers to a cry expressing an appeal for divine help.\n\nIn Jewish liturgy, the word is applied specifically to the Hoshana Service, a cycle of prayers from which a selection is sung each morning during Sukkot, the Feast of Booths or Tabernacles. The complete cycle is sung on the seventh day of the festival, which is called Hoshana Rabbah (הושענא רבא, \"Great Hosanna\").\n\n\"Hosanna\" was the shout of praise or adoration made in recognition of the Messiahship of Jesus on his triumphal entry into Jerusalem, \"Hosanna! Blessed is the one who comes in the name of the LORD!\" It is used in the same way in Christian praise.\n\nThe \"Hosanna Anthem\", based on the phrase \"Hosanna\", is a traditional Moravian Church anthem written by Bishop Christian Gregor of Herrnhut sung on Palm Sunday and the first Sunday of Advent. It is antiphonal, i.e. a call-and-response song; traditionally, it is sung between the children and adult congregation, though it is not unheard of for it to be done in other ways, such as between choir and congregation, or played between trombone choirs.\n\nMany songs for church use bear the title \"Hosanna\", including songs written by New Zealand singer Brooke Fraser Ligertwood (released on the 2007 Hillsong United albums \"All of the Above\" and live on \"Saviour King\" and covered by the Canadian group Starfield on their album \"I Will Go\"); another song by Paul Baloche on his 2006 album \"A Greater Song\"; another by gospel artist Kirk Franklin, and another by Andrew Peterson on his 2008 album \"Resurrection Letters II\". \nSidney Mohede's \"Hosanna (Be Lifted High)\" was included on Israel Houghton's 2011 Grammy Award-winning album \"Love God, Love People\". \n\nIn the Philippines, particularly in Tagalog-speaking provinces, the term Osanahan refers to the procession of the priest from a prayer station (termed kuból or Galilea in some provinces) after the blessing of palms; to the parish church for the liturgy of the Mass of the Sunday of the Lord's Passion. This procession is accompanied by the faithful, with little children dressed as angels singing Filipino or Latin antiphons set into lowland Filipino music, with either a rondalla or a brass band as musical accompaniment.\n\nArchitect Frank Lloyd Wright famously used the word in his exclamation \"Hosanna! A client!\" after securing a commission, breaking a long, dry spell.\n\nIn the 1969 Broadway musical \"1776\" the word is used repeatedly as part of the chorus of the song \"Cool, Cool, Considerate Men.\"\n\n\"Hosanna\" is the name of one of the songs featured in the 1971 rock opera \"Jesus Christ Superstar\". The song covers the entry of Jesus into Jerusalem, as in the above Biblical passages. Jesus is briefly harassed by the high priest Caiaphas but the people celebrate him as the Messiah. There is also a reprise of the chorus when Jesus is sent to King Herod.\n\nA. R. Rahman composed the song \"Hosanna\" for the 2010 Tamil movie \"Vinnaithaandi Varuvaayaa\". Here the word is used as an exclamation of joy when a man sees his beloved. The Christian Catholic Secular Forum (CSF) objected to this song and asked film-makers Fox Star Studios to remove it from the final cut of the Hindi remake of the film, \"Ekk Deewana Tha\". Paul McCartney's album New, released in 2013, features a song titled Hosanna. Contextually, he uses the phrase as a cry for help in light of the world's current state of affairs.\n\nAmerican comedians Tim and Eric use the phrase \"blessed Hosanna\" freely in their piece \"Morning Prayer with Skott and Behr.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853498", "title": "Gordon Hill (footballer)", "text": "Gordon Hill (footballer)\n\nGordon Alec Hill (born 1 April 1954) is an English former footballer who played in the Football League for Millwall, Manchester United, Derby County and Queens Park Rangers, and was capped six times for the England national team.\n\nIn 1971, Hill began his club career with Staines Town of the Athenian League as a 17-year-old. In 1972, he moved to Southall F.C., playing a few youth games there while his brother was on trial at the club. He drew the attention of Millwall F.C. and signed with them in 1973. Known to The Lions fans as 'Merlin', Hill had outstanding skill that earned him wide recognition. The Millwall youngster entertained the fans with high-class shooting and dribbling and it was not long before scouts from big clubs noticed him. He played 91 league games for Millwall, scoring 22 goals. After spending the summer of 1975 on loan with the North American Soccer League's Chicago Sting, and being named All League, Hill subsequently signed for Manchester United in November 1975 for £70,000, a bargain for manager Tommy Docherty, forming a wing partnership with Steve Coppell.\n\nHill helped United reach the 1976 FA Cup Final, scoring both goals with typical long-range efforts in the semi-final at Hillsborough Stadium against Derby County. Unfortunately for Hill, United lost in the Final against Southampton. He was also part of the 1977 FA Cup-winning side. Hill left United for Derby County for £250,000 in 1978, with his sale by Dave Sexton deeply unpopular with supporters. At the time of his sale, Hill was United's top scorer and a favourite among fans. He spent two seasons with Derby County, most of it sidelined with a knee injury suffered in one of his first games, before moving to Queens Park Rangers in 1980. He left England for the Montreal Manic of the NASL in 1981. After a successful first season with the Manic, he began the 1982 season in Montreal, but after five games the Manic sent him to the Chicago Sting. In the fall of 1982, the Sting entered the Major Indoor Soccer League for the winter indoor season. Hill began the season with the Sting, and moved to the San Jose Earthquakes after eleven games. In January 1983, the Earthquakes turned around and traded Hill and Gary Etherington to the New York Arrows in exchange for Steve Zungul. In the summer of 1983, Hill played for Inter-Montreal of the Canadian Professional Soccer League. In the autumn of 1983, Hill signed with the Kansas City Comets of MISL. He played one season with the Comets, then began the 1984–85 season before being released. In December 1984, he signed with the Tacoma Stars.\n\nHe joined FC Twente in the Dutch Premier Division for the 1985–86 season, playing 19 times and scoring four goals. He spent the summer of 1986 in Finland with HJK Helsinki, scoring two goals in as many appearances before returning to England where he played under his former teammate Stuart Pearson at Northwich Victoria, before retiring from the game.\n\nIn the summer of 1991, Hill was managing director, Head Coach and Player of the Nova Scotia Clippers in the team's only year in the Canadian Soccer League, where he took the club to the playoffs. In 2001, he briefly managed Chester City during their spell in the Football Conference, and had a short spell managing Hyde United. He was the Director of coaching (Boys) for Cleveland United SC 2012-13. Hill admits that any promising players would be steered towards his former team. \n\nHe returns to the UK several times a year with groups of players to play games in the Manchester area. Currently, Gordon is owner of United Sports based in the United States, having a partnership with Chesterfield FC, sending young players to work with them in their development squad. Gordon is still interested in continuing his management career.\n\nDuring his career, Hill played at every level for England: as an amateur, youth, under 23, England B and full International, at which level he won six full caps between 1976 and 1977.\n\n\n\"The Doc's Devils: Manchester United 1972–1977\" by Sean Egan\n\n\"Merlin\" The Gordon Hill Autobiography with Wayne Barton\n\n\"Only a game?\" by Eamon Dunphy where Gordon is one of the new young members of the Millwall team where he falls for a lot of the wind ups that the team play on him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853501", "title": "Tomasz Józef Zamoyski", "text": "Tomasz Józef Zamoyski\n\nTomasz Józef Zamoyski (1678–1725) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nTomasz became the 5th Ordynat of Zamość estate. He was also starost of Płoskirów and Gródek and became a Royal Colonel.\n"}
{"id": "1853505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853505", "title": "Pretty Face", "text": "Pretty Face\n\n\"Pretty Face\" is a romantic comedy that involves a variety of different characters. The main protagonist is Masashi Rando, a high school student and karate expert who harbors an unconfessed love for a fellow student, Rina Kurimi. One day, while returning home from a karate tournament in Hokkaidō, he is involved in a tragic school bus accident and burned beyond recognition.\n\nOne year later, Masashi awakes from a coma to find that he's been in the care of a talented (yet slightly deranged) surgeon named Jun Manabe. Masashi finds out his disfigured face had been reconstructed in the image of the girl he has a crush on. Not knowing what Masashi originally looked like, Dr. Manabe used a photo in Masashi's pocket as the model for his reconstructive surgery.\n\nAfterwards, Masashi finds out that during his year long coma, he was mistakenly pronounced deceased, his parents moved away, and even his house was demolished. Once he has realized his old life is now gone, he breaks down in complete despair on the sidewalk in front of the empty lot that was his former household. On his way back to Manabe's clinic, he runs into Rina by chance, and is mistaken for her missing twin sister, Yuna. After Rina takes him back to her house and presents him as Yuna, he lies about having amnesia in order not to arouse any sudden suspicions. Masashi wants Jun to change his face back to the way it was but has no picture of himself to help. He does get a picture of himself eventually but later, after seeing how much pain Rina experienced during the time her sister was gone, Masashi decides to impersonate Yuna for the time being until he can find the real Yuna and bring her back to the Kurimi family.\n\n\n\"Pretty Face\" was serialized in the manga magazine \"Weekly Shōnen Jump\" from 2002 to 2003. The fifty-two individual chapters and one extra chapter were collected into six \"tankōbon\" volumes.The first volume was released on October 4, 2002 and the last one on November 4, 2003. \n\nIn North America, the manga was licensed by Viz Media in February 2007. The volumes were published between August 7, 2007 and June 3, 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853511", "title": "Johnny Jeter", "text": "Johnny Jeter\n\nJohn Jeter (born December 14, 1981) is an American professional wrestler. He is best known for his appearances with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in 2006 as Johnny, a member of The Spirit Squad.\n\nJeter was trained by Nick Dinsmore, and made his wrestling debut in 2001. He began working for Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), which led to him signing a developmental contract with WWE in 2003. Alongside Matt Cappotelli, he won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship, and also won the OVW Heavyweight Championship in singles competition. Jeter became part of the Spirit Squad and debuted on \"Raw\" in January 2006. They won the World Tag Team Championship once. After being released from WWE, he returned to OVW. He retired, but returned to the ring in 2019.\n\nAfter being trained by Nick Dinsmore, Jeter debuted in 2001, and began working for Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). In 2003, he signed a contract with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE), and continued to wrestle in OVW, which was WWE's developmental territory, although he occasionally made appearances in dark matches for WWE. In one of his earliest dark matches, Jeter teamed with Nova in a loss to Chuck Palumbo and Nunzio on the February 23, 2003 episode of \"Velocity\". His pay-per-view debut was at the 2003 Vengeance event, when Jeter appeared as the masked Conquistador #2 in the APA's Barroom Brawl match.\n\nIn 2004, Jeter formed a tag team with Matt Cappotelli known as the Thrillseekers. The Thrillseekers wrestled in several dark matches before both \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown\", defeating the teams of Johnny Nitro and Chris Cage, and MNM. On January 19, 2005, The Thrillseekers defeated MNM to win the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. They successfully defended the championship against MNM and The Heart Throbs, before losing it to the Blond Bombers (Tank and Chad Toland) on April 6.\n\nOn July 27, The Thrillseekers defeated MNM to become the number one contenders to the Tag Team Championship, in a match with the added stipulation that whoever gained the pin would receive a match for the OVW Heavyweight Championship. The Thrillseekers got simultaneous pins, but it was Jeter who received the championship match. On August 3, Jeter defeated the OVW Heavyweight Champion, Brent Albright, to win the championship, after Ken Anderson and Daniel Puder interfered on his behalf. After the match, Jeter turned into a heel (villainous character) by attacking Cappotelli, who had suffered an injury. In the following weeks, Jeter also attacked Albright, announcer Dean Hill, and official Danny Davis.\n\nJeter quickly formed an alliance with Ken Anderson, who helped him retain the championship on several occasions. They later added Paul Burchill to the alliance as an enforcer. After holding the OVW Heavyweight Championship for five months, Jeter lost it to Cappotelli in a two out of three falls match on November 9, 2005. Jeter challenged Cappotelli on numerous occasions Cappotelli in an attempt to regain the championship, but was unsuccessful.\n\nIn OVW, he became a part of The Spirit Squad, a faction using the in-ring personas of male cheerleaders, using the name \"Johnny\". On January 23, 2006, they had their WWE television debut as a group, appearing on \"Raw\" and helping Jonathan Coachman win a Royal Rumble qualifying match against Jerry Lawler by distracting Lawler and performing cheers for Coachman. They later became a part of the ongoing scripted feud between WWE chairman Vince McMahon and Shawn Michaels. The heel (villainous) McMahon brought in The Spirit Squad to attack Michaels on numerous occasions, including placing them in multiple handicap matches.\n\nThey also wrestled in the tag team division and on \"Raw\" on April 3, The Spirit Squad won the World Tag Team Championship when Kenny and Mikey, with outside help from the other three members, defeated Kane and The Big Show. After winning the championship, all five members of The Spirit Squad were recognized as the champions, allowing any combination of them to defend the championship.\n\nIn May, McMahon signed another handicap match, with The Spirit Squad facing Michaels. The Spirit Squad instead attacked Michaels before the match started, and Triple H came out to help The Spirit Squad. Triple H felt disrespected by The Spirit Squad however, and as a result, helped Michaels instead. This led to Triple H and Michaels reforming D-Generation X (DX) and they began a feud with The Spirit Squad. DX played various sophomoric jokes on The Spirit Squad and the McMahons, as well as defeating The Spirit Squad in handicap tag team matches at Vengeance and a clean sweep in an elimination handicap match at \"Saturday Night's Main Event XXXIII\".\n\nAt the same time as their feud with DX and their alignment with McMahon, The Spirit Squad also wrestled other teams in \"Raw\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s tag division over their World Tag Team Championship, successfully defending the championship against the teams of Jim Duggan and Eugene, Charlie Haas and Viscera, and Snitsky and Val Venis. They then entered a lengthy feud with The Highlanders, whom they eventually defeated to retain the championship at the Unforgiven pay-per-view in September. The Spirit Squad as a whole later began a losing streak with Johnny, Mikey, and Mitch losing singles matches to Ric Flair on consecutive episodes of \"Raw\". After two consecutive losses to the debuting Cryme Tyme, Kenny announced that he was going to defeat Flair, and was successful with the help of the other members. It was then announced that Flair and a legend, selected by interactive voting, would wrestle the team for the World Tag Team Championship at the Cyber Sunday pay-per-view in early November. The fans chose Roddy Piper, and he and Flair defeated Kenny and Mikey to win the championship.\n\nThe group disbanded on the November 27 episode of \"Raw\", when they were defeated in a five-on-three handicap match by DX and Flair. In a backstage segment later that night, DX placed all members into a crate stamped \"OVW, Louisville, Kentucky\", a reference to the developmental territory from where The Spirit Squad had come.\n\nFollowing the breakup of The Spirit Squad, Johnny became the second member of the team to return to the main roster when he appeared during a 30-man battle royal on the December 18 episode of \"Raw\", wearing new wrestling attire.\n\nJeter made his return to OVW on February 14, 2007, by defeating Deuce in a dark match prior to the television tapings. In May 2007, Jeter challenged Shawn Spears for the OVW Television Championship, but was unsuccessful. In June, he formed a team with Seth Skyfire, before returning to competing in the singles division. He challenged Paul Burchill for the OVW Heavyweight Championship in mid-2008, but was unsuccessful.\n\nBeginning in August, Jeter made numerous appearances in dark matches prior to \"Raw\" and \"SmackDown!\". He also wrestled at ECW live events. Beginning with the October 17, 2007 live event in Manchester, England, Jeter changed his ring name to \"Jayden Jeter\". In June 2008, it was revealed that Jeter had been quietly released from his contract before January 2008. In 2019, Jeter clarified that he left WWE on his own terms, rather than being released, after having to overcome the addiction to painkillers.\n\nOn August 21, 2014, the Chikara promotion announced that Jeter, under his Spirit Squad character, would be taking part in the 2014 King of Trios tournament, teaming with Kenny and Mikey. After a win over Sinn Bodhi and the Odditorium (Qefka the Quiet and Sir Oliver Grimsly) on September 19, the Spirit Squad was eliminated from the tournament in the second round on September 20 by the Golden Trio (Dasher Hatfield, Icarus and Mark Angelosetti).\n\nIn early 2019, Jeter started to want to wrestle again. He started looking for a wrestling ring, to work out in his home state of Arizona. This led to him connecting with Championship Wrestling from Arizona (CWFA). He is now going to be appearing on their weekly show.\n\nFollowing his initial retirement in 2008, Jeter went back to college to study accounting at California State University, Northridge. Jeter has since earned his Bachelor of Science in Professional Accountancy and works in Internal Audit.\n\n\n Johnny defended the championship with either Kenny, Mitch, Nicky, or Mikey under the Freebird Rule.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853520", "title": "Steve James (footballer)", "text": "Steve James (footballer)\n\nSteven Robert James (born 29 November 1949) is an English former professional footballer who played at centre-back.\n\nBorn in Coseley, England, James started his career as an apprentice at Manchester United in December 1965. His first-team debut for the club came on 12 October 1968 against Liverpool. He scored four goals in 161 appearances (including one substitute appearance) during his United career before being transferred to York City in January 1976. During his time at Old Trafford, he collected a Football League Second Division title medal in 1975 but then lost his place in the first team and this prompted his move to Bootham Crescent.\n\nHe made his debut for York against West Bromwich Albion in January 1976. He missed the whole of the 1978–79 season with injury. He made 119 appearances and scored 2 goals for the club, and joined non-league Kidderminster Harriers in May 1980.\n\nHe was capped for England at youth international level in 1968. As of June 2012, he was working in a Waitrose supermarket. His Division 2 winners' medal was found in a junior school near Telford in January 2012, having been missing for over 30 years.\n\nManchester United\n"}
{"id": "1853521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853521", "title": "Joseph Henry Thayer", "text": "Joseph Henry Thayer\n\nJoseph Henry Thayer (November 7, 1828—November 26, 1901), an American biblical scholar, was born in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nJoseph Henry Thayer was born in 1828 in Boston. He graduated from Harvard in 1850 and from Andover Theological Seminary in 1857. From 1858 to 1864 he served as a pastor—first in Quincy, Massachusetts, then in Salem—and served as a chaplain of the 4oth Massachusetts Volunteers in the Civil War. After the war, he returned to Massachusetts to become Professor of Sacred Literature at Andover Theological Seminary, where he taught until 1882. In 1884, he began teaching New Testament criticism at Harvard. In 1870, Thayer was a member of the American Bible Revision Committee and recording secretary of the New Testament company (working on the Revised Version). \n\nThayer's \"Greek–English Lexicon of the New Testament\" is one of the greatest achievements in biblical scholarship at the turn of the twentieth century. As the culmination of nearly three decades of work, more than 5,000 entries, references to grammatical and exegetical works, detailed etymology, and complete summaries of both biblical and extra-biblical word usage. Thayer's Greek–English Lexicon published in 1889 represents a watershed event in nineteenth-century Greek lexicography. \n\nThayer's Greek–English Lexicon is a revised and translated edition of C.G. Wilke's \"Clavis Novi Testamenti\" - first published in 1841. After numerous revisions by both Wilke and his successor, C.L. Wilibald Grimm, Thayer took over the project. Thayer devoted nearly thirty years to the translation that first appeared in 1885, and updated edition in 1889. \n\nIn February 1891 Thayer published a lecture in which he expressed disagreement with the position of Biblical inerrancy, asserting that his own acceptance of various errors of history and science in the Bible did not materially detract from his belief in the overall soundness of Christianity.\n\nThayer was president of the Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis for 1894 and 1895. In his 1895 presidential address, he called for the creation of an \"American School for Oriental Study and Research\" in Palestine. \nOver the next five years, the Society was involved in the establishment of the American School of Oriental Research in Jerusalem. A plaque commemorating Thayer's role in its foundation was placed at the American School in 1933.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853523", "title": "German submarine U-333", "text": "German submarine U-333\n\nGerman submarine \"U-333\" was a Type VIIC U-boat of Nazi Germany's \"Kriegsmarine\" during World War II. The submarine was laid down on 11 March 1940 at the Nordseewerke yard at Emden, launched on 14 June 1941, and commissioned on 25 August 1941 under the command of \"Kapitänleutnant\" Peter-Erich Cremer. After training with the 5th U-boat Flotilla at Kiel, on 1 January 1942 \"U-333\" was transferred to the 3rd U-boat Flotilla based at La Pallice for front-line service.\n\nThe U-boat made 12 combat patrols in the next three years, and sank seven merchant ships totalling , damaged another of , and also engaged and damaged the . \"U-333\" was sunk in the English Channel by British warships using a Squid on 31 July 1944.\n\n\"U-333\" bore the \"three little fishes\" emblem on its conning tower.\n\nGerman Type VIIC submarines were preceded by the shorter Type VIIB submarines. \"U-333\" had a displacement of when at the surface and while submerged. She had a total length of , a pressure hull length of , a beam of , a height of , and a draught of . The submarine was powered by two Germaniawerft F46 four-stroke, six-cylinder supercharged diesel engines producing a total of for use while surfaced, two AEG GU 460/8–27 double-acting electric motors producing a total of for use while submerged. She had two shafts and two propellers. The boat was capable of operating at depths of up to .\n\nThe submarine had a maximum surface speed of and a maximum submerged speed of . When submerged, the boat could operate for at ; when surfaced, she could travel at . \"U-333\" was fitted with five torpedo tubes (four fitted at the bow and one at the stern), fourteen torpedoes, one SK C/35 naval gun, 220 rounds, and a C/30 anti-aircraft gun. The boat had a complement of between forty-four and sixty.\n\n\"U-333\" sailed from Kiel on 27 December 1941, through the North Sea, and into the Atlantic. On 1 January 1942 the U-boat was attacked by an unidentified enemy aircraft, but was not damaged. \"U-333\" then joined the wolfpack 'Ziethen' on 17 January 1942, and at 20:45 on 22 January, attacked the 3,429-ton Greek merchant ship \"Vassilios A. Polemis\", a straggler from Convoy ON 53. The ship, hit amidships by a single torpedo, broke in two and sank within ten minutes. The U-boat questioned the 12 survivors from the crew of 33, and gave them bread and cigarettes.\n\nAt 15:25 on 24 January, about southeast of Cape Race, \"U-333\" attacked the 4,765-ton Norwegian merchant ship \"Ringstad\", which had lost contact with Convoy ON 55 after several days of storms. The ship was hit on the starboard side by a single torpedo, and the crew of 43 abandoned ship in three lifeboats. After 20 minutes the ship sank, the U-boat surfaced to question the crew, offered water and food, and gave them a heading to the nearest land before wishing them good luck and leaving. However, in heavy weather two lifeboats containing 30 men were lost, while the third lifeboat was eventually spotted, covered in ice, five days later by an aircraft that brought to their rescue.\n\nAt 16:50 hours on 31 January 1942, north of the Azores \"U-333\" attacked an unescorted and zigzagging 5,083-ton merchant ship with a single torpedo, which promptly sent out a distress signal \"en clair\" under the name \"\". Cremer examined the ship from a distance of before \"U-333\" torpedoed the ship again at 18:33, and sank her. Unfortunately, she was in fact the German blockade runner \"Spreewald\", en route from Dairen in Manchuria to Bordeaux with a cargo of 3,365 tons of rubber, 230 tons of tin, 20 tons of tungsten, and quinine, as well as 86 prisoners from ships that had been sunk by the auxiliary cruiser . Cremer failed to identify her, as she was camouflaged as the Norwegian ship \"Elg\" and was ahead of schedule.\n\nA search for survivors was promptly launched. \"U-333\" and , which was waiting to escort the ship into port and , which was waiting to transfer an injured crewman to the ship, were soon joined by and , which were returning from their patrols, and and , which had just begun theirs. Five Fw 200 \"Condor\" long-range patrol aircraft from France also searched the area, but most of the U-boats were low on fuel and soon had to abort their search.\n\nLate on 2 February, \"U-105\" picked up 25 crewmen and 55 prisoners in three lifeboats and three rafts. Another lifeboat, containing 11 crewmen and 13 prisoners was missing and \"U-105\" searched for a further three days before giving up and setting a course to Lorient. To compound the disaster, when a Dornier Do 24 flying boat was sent out to pick up a severely injured sailor, it crashed in rough seas. \"U-105\" rescued the seven-man crew and sank the aircraft with gunfire. Of the 152 aboard the \"Spreewald\", 72 were killed.\n\nAfter returning from his patrol on 9 February 1942, Cremer was court-martialled, but was found not guilty.\n\n\"U-333\" left her new home port of La Pallice on 30 March 1942, and headed across the Atlantic to the coast of Florida. There, on 6 May, she attacked three ships, sinking two. The first was the unescorted 8,327-ton American tanker \"Java Arrow\", hit by two torpedoes eight miles (13 km) off Vero Beach at 05:43. The attack killed two officers on watch below, the 45 survivors abandoned ship in two lifeboats. They were later picked up by the submarine chaser and a Coast Guard vessel. A Coast Guard officer boarded the ship to inspect the damage and ascertained that she could be saved, so the Master and four men returned to the ship and dropped the anchor to prevent the ship from going aground. The Master then went to Fort Pierce and returned later with 14 of his crew and the salvage tugs \"Ontario\" and \"Bafshe\" which towed the tanker to Port Everglades. The ship was repaired and returned to service in 1943.\n\nMeanwhile, at 09:35, off Fort Pierce, \"U-333\" hit the unescorted 1,294-ton Dutch merchant ship \"Amazone\" with a single torpedo on the port side. The ship, en route to New York from Curaçao with a cargo of 926 tons of coffee and oil, sank within two minutes. Fourteen crewmen were lost, while the 11 survivors were picked up by the submarine chaser .\n\nFinally, at 23:25 the unescorted and unarmed 7,088-ton American tanker \"Halsey\" was hit by two torpedoes off St Lucie Inlet, ripping a hole in the side long. The ship, en route from Corpus Christi, Texas to New York, was laden with of naphtha and of heating oil. The crew of 32 abandoned ship in two lifeboats, almost being asphyxiated by naphtha fumes. An hour later the \"Halsey\" exploded, broke in two, and burst into flames. The lifeboats were soon found by , and towed to land by two fishing vessels.\n\nThe next day, 7 May, \"U-333\" was hunted by a convoy escort ship, and badly damaged by depth charges, forcing the U-boat to return to France. However, at 09:05 on 10 May, she attacked the unescorted 5,214-ton British Clan Line merchant ship \"Clan Skene\" about south-east of Cape Hatteras. The ship, carrying 2,006 tons of chrome ore from Beira in Portuguese East Africa to New York, was hit by two torpedoes and sank. Nine crewmen were killed, while 73 survivors were later picked up by the destroyer . Cremer noted in his \"Kriegstagebücher\" (\"War diary\") that the sinking of this ship was like \".. a balm after these terrible depth charges\". \"U-333\" finally arrived back at La Pallice on 26 May.\n\n\"U-333\"s next patrol was uneventful. Departing La Pallice on 11 August 1942, she joined wolfpack 'Blücher' north-east of the Azores from 14–18 August, but had no successes, and returned to port on 24 August after only 14 days at sea.\n\n\"U-333\" sailed from La Pallice once more on 1 September 1942, and headed south to the coast of West Africa, joining wolfpack 'Iltis' between 6–23 September.\n\nOn 6 October the U-boat engaged the British about south-west of Freetown, Sierra Leone. \"Crocus\" detected \"U-333\" by radar, and closed at high speed. The U-boat was rammed twice, and exchanged gunfire at close range before submerging, while the corvette dropped depth charges. The \"U-333\" lay low, later surfacing and making her escape under cover of darkness. Both vessels suffered damage and sustained casualties. On the U-boat three men were killed; \"Bootsmaat\" Heinz Kurze, \"Maschinenobergefreiter\" Erwin Levermann, and the First Watch Officer (second-in-command) \"Oberleutnant zur See\" Bernhard Hermann, while several men were wounded, including the commander Peter-Erich Cremer. Command of \"U-333\" was taken by the Second Watch Officer (third-in-command) \"Leutnant zur See\" Helmut Kandzior, who took the U-boat to a rendezvous with three days later, where \"Kapitänleutnant\" Lorenz Kasch, a Captain under instruction, assumed temporary command. \"U-333\" also received medical assistance from a doctor on the \"Milchkuh\" .\n\nOn 21 October the inbound \"U-333\" was attacked by the British submarine about north-north-east of Cape Ortegal, Spain. The British submarine was formerly the German \"U-570\", captured on 27 August 1941, extensively studied, and commissioned into the Royal Navy. \"Graph\", on her first war patrol in British service, fired a spread of four torpedoes at the surfaced U-boat, but lookouts spotted the tracks and \"U-333\" managed to evade them. \"U-333\" arrived back at La Pallice two days later, on 23 October 1942, and Cremer then spent three months in hospital.\n\n\"Oberleutnant zur See\" Werner Schwaff was appointed temporary commander of \"U-333\" on 22 November 1942, and set sail from La Pallice on his first patrol on 20 December 1942. The U-boat sailed out to patrol the Atlantic south-west of Iceland, joining wolfpacks 'Falke' from 28 December 1942 to 19 January 1943, and 'Landsknecht' from 19 to 28 January 1943. However she had no successes, and eventually returned to base on 5 February 1943 after a patrol lasting 48 days.\n\nTwo days after departing from La Pallice on 2 March 1943, \"U-333\" was attacked in the Bay of Biscay by a British Wellington Mk.VIII bomber from No. 172 Squadron RAF equipped with a Leigh light. When the aircraft illuminated the U-boat, it was met with a barrage of AA fire. The bomber passed over \"U-333\", and dropped four depth charges before crashing into the sea, killing the crew of six. Two depth charges actually hit \"U-333\", but one broke up without detonating and the other bounced off and caused only light damage.\n\n\"U-333\" continued her patrol, returning to the seas south-west of Iceland, and joining wolfpack 'Dränger' on 14 March. There, on 19 March at 21:28, she torpedoed and sank the 5,234-ton Greek merchant ship \"Carras\", a straggler from Convoy SC 122, which had been hit by a torpedo from earlier. All the crew of 34 survived and were picked up by the British rescue ship \"Zamalek\". \"U-333\" joined wolfpack 'Seewolf' from 21 to 30 March, but had no more successes before returning to La Pallice on 13 April.\n\n\"Carras\" would be the last ship sunk by \"U-333\", as the balance of power in the Battle of the Atlantic now swung in favour of the Allies, culminating in Black May (1943).\n\nOn 18 May 1943 Peter-Erich Cremer, now recovered from his injuries and promoted to the rank of \"Korvettenkapitän\", reassumed command of \"U-333\". On 2 June the U-boat sailed from La Pallice and headed south to the coast of West Africa. However, she had no success, and returned to base on 31 August after 91 days.\n\n\"U-333\"s next patrol began on 21 October 1943, heading out into the Atlantic north-east of the Azores, where she joined wolfpack 'Schill' on the 25th. On 4 November, while shadowing a KMS convoy, bound for Gibraltar from Liverpool, \"U-333\" surfaced in heavy fog, but was forced to dive by a destroyer and heavily depth charged, but managed to escape unharmed.\n\n\"U-333\" joined wolfpack 'Schill 1' on 16 November. On the 18th, while attacking the combined convoys SL 139 and MKS 30, the U-boat was rammed by the frigate , losing her periscope. \"U-333\" was then subjected to an attack from warships and an aircraft that lasted for eight hours, before making her\nescape. The U-boat returned to La Pallice on 1 December 1943 having had no success.\n\n\"U-333\" sailed out on a patrol on 10 February 1944, but returned after only two days on the 12th. The U-boat left again on 14 February and headed into the waters west of Ireland. There, on 21 March, the U-boat was spotted by Allied aircraft which in turn brought in the Royal Navy's renowned U-boat hunters, the 2nd Support Group, under the command of Captain F.J. Walker. Pursued relentlessly, Cremer eventually took \"U-333\" to the bottom and sat on the sea floor at a depth of for 10 hours. Although releasing the U-boat from the grip of the mud was a problem, she eventually freed herself, and once again \"U-333\" escaped. The U-boat returned to base on 20 April 1944, again having had no success.\n\nDeparting from La Pallice on 6 June 1944, \"U-333\" fell victim to the increased anti-submarine activity by the Allies after the Normandy landings. On 10 June, while still in the Bay of Biscay, \"U-333\" was attacked by an Australian Sunderland flying boat patrol bomber of No. 10 Squadron RAAF, and suffered some damage, although she managed to repel the aircraft with her flak. The next day \"U-333\" was attacked, again by another Sunderland, this time from No. 228 Squadron RAF. \"U-333\" managed to shoot the aircraft down, but suffered further damage, forcing her to abort her patrol and return to base on 13 June.\n\nOn 19 July 1944 Cremer left \"U-333\" in order to commission the new Type XXI \"Elektroboote\" , and \"Kapitänleutnant\" Hans Fiedler was appointed as commander on the 20th. His first, and \"U-333\"s final patrol began on 23 July, as she headed into the Western Approaches.\n\n\"U-333\" was sunk on 31 July 1944, west of the Scilly Isles, in position , by the first use of the Squid anti-submarine mortar from the British Royal Navy sloop and frigate of the 2nd Support Group. All 45 hands were lost.\n\n\"U-333\" took part in nine wolfpacks, namely.\n\nBetween August 1941 and July 1944 \"U-333\" sailed on 12 combat patrols, and sank seven merchant ships totalling , damaged another of , and also engaged and damaged the . She also shot down two aircraft.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853524", "title": "Rein Henriksen", "text": "Rein Henriksen\n\nRein Henriksen (17 December 1915 – 29 April 1994) was a Norwegian lawyer and industrialist.\n\nHe was born in Oslo as a son of Gustav Severin Henriksen. He was hired in Borregaard Industrier in 1947, and advanced to director general from 1960 to 1978. From 1973 to 1975 he was the president of the Federation of Norwegian Industries, and from 1967 to 1972 he chaired the central committee of the Norwegian Employers' Confederation.\n"}
{"id": "1853525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853525", "title": "Make Politicians History", "text": "Make Politicians History\n\nMake Politicians History was a minor United Kingdom political party that advocated the abolition of Parliament in favour of devolution to city-states and decision-making by referendum. Its leader was Ronnie Carroll. Since the 1980s, the group stood under various descriptions, including Vote For Yourself, www.xat.org and Vote For Yourself Rainbow Dream Ticket.\n\nThe group originated in the 1980s as the Rainbow Alliance of several small groups, founded and led by Rainbow George Weiss, which Weiss says was after he was contacted by \"an extraterrestrial soulmate called Sterling Silver\". It stood a variety of candidates, often on frivolous platforms. The first candidate was Weiss in the 1984 Enfield Southgate by-election; Michael Portillo won and Weiss polled 48 votes. In the Hampstead and Highgate constituency at the 1992 UK general election, they stood three candidates. Some minor celebrities such as Cynthia Payne, Liza Duke and Malcolm Hardee stood for the group.\n\nThe renamed Rainbow Dream Ticket stood 31 candidates in the 1997 UK general election, polling 4,104 votes. As Vote For Yourself Dream Ticket the party stood Weiss as its candidate in all four Belfast seats in the 2001 UK general election, pledging to rename Britain and Ireland as the \"Emerald Rainbow Isles\", to replace the currency with the \"Wonder\", made up of 100 \"gasps\", to make utilities, healthcare and education free, and to cancel all debt.\n\nThey then stood three candidates in the 2003 Northern Ireland Assembly election, receiving a total of 124 votes.\n\nThe party put up candidates in 23 constituencies in the 2005 UK general election, six in Northern Ireland, four in Cardiff and thirteen in London. Among the party's candidates was David Kerr, a former member of the National Front, a member of Ulster Third Way, and editor of \"Ulster Nation\", and Lynda Gilby, a Belfast journalist. They came last or second-last in every seat in which they stood. Weiss stood in 13 London seats, receiving a total of 1,289 votes. In the Cardiff North constituency, candidate Catherine Taylor-Dawson, a singer-songwriter, received only one vote, thus setting a new record for the lowest vote for any parliamentary candidate under universal suffrage. The single vote was not cast by Taylor-Dawson, as she was not registered to vote in that constituency.\n\nThe party was renamed Make Politicians History on 26 September 2005, led by Ronnie Carroll. The first action was to announce in January 2006 a referendum fronted by snooker player Alex Higgins, in which postcards were sent to all residents in Belfast calling for the city to be renamed \"Best\" and made self-governing. The party wanted Ulster residents to make decisions issue by issue through an electronic voting system. The party released a music CD, \"Let's Tick Together\", in May 2006. Weiss stood in the four Belfast constituencies in the Northern Ireland Assembly elections in 2007, receiving a sixth preference vote from Sinn Féin leader Gerry Adams. Ronnie Carroll stood in the 2008 Haltemprice and Howden by-election, and received 29 votes. A \"Brand Spanking New London Party\" with Russell Brand as its candidate for Mayor of London was announced, but did not stand.\n\nThe party was disbanded in April 2009, reportedly due to Weiss being impressed at the progress of the Northern Ireland peace process after the Massereene Barracks shooting, and it was deregistered on 8 June 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853528", "title": "Chalk (TV series)", "text": "Chalk (TV series)\n\nChalk is a British television sitcom set in a comprehensive school named Galfast High. Two series, both written by Steven Moffat, were broadcast on BBC1 in 1997. Like Moffat's earlier sitcom \"Joking Apart\", \"Chalk\" was produced by Andre Ptaszynski for Pola Jones.\n\nThe series focuses upon deputy headteacher Eric Slatt (David Bamber), permanently stressed over the chaos he creates both by himself and some of his eccentric staff. His wife Janet (Geraldine Fitzgerald) and new English teacher Suzy Travis (Nicola Walker) attempt to help him solve the problems.\n\nBecause of the very good reaction of the studio audience, a second series was commissioned before the first had been broadcast. However, journalists were critical of the show, highlighting stylistic similarities to \"Fawlty Towers\". Some members of the teaching profession and its unions objected to the negative representation of teachers and the comprehensive system. The second series did not receive a stable broadcast slot, with many episodes aired after 10pm. The first series was released on DVD in December 2008.\n\nSteven Moffat left his job as an English teacher at Cowdenknowes High in Greenock to write the BAFTA-award winning show \"Press Gang\". However, its high cost and changes in the executive structure at Central Independent Television meant that the show might not be recommissioned after its second series. As the writer wondered what to do next and was worried about future employment, Bob Spiers, \"Press Gang\"'s primary director, suggested that he meet with producer Andre Ptaszynski to discuss writing a sitcom. Inspired by his experience in education (in addition to his own former career, his father was a headteacher), the writer's initial proposal was similar to what would become \"Chalk\". However, Ptaszynski realised that Moffat was talking more passionately at the meeting at the Groucho Club about his impending divorce and suggested that he write about that instead. That idea became \"Joking Apart\", which received low audience figures but a high rating on the Appreciation Index. In an interview with \"The Herald\", Moffat reflected on the nature of writing from experience: \"I don't think you have an alternative to writing about what you know. You've no life experience to go on other than your own. Even if you're writing something you think is entirely remote from you - \"Star Trek\", for instance - you'll find the finished result is actually very close to your own experience. That's not a conscious decision a writer makes - it's an inevitability.\"\n\nAfter the second series of \"Joking Apart\" had been transmitted, Ptaszynski revived Moffat's original idea about a sitcom set in a school. In an article for \"The Guardian\" newspaper, writer and comedian Richard Herring observed that Moffat has not used the show \"as a soapbox from which to satirise the government’s educational policy, preferring to concentrate on being funny ... yet beneath it all is a much more broadly satirical swipe at the implicit pointlessness of the way we are educated.\" For this article, Moffat told Herring:\n\nSecondary School is a big waste of time. What are French teachers doing? None of us can speak French. How much maths can you do? Do you know any history? What is the point in training people to do things that none of us can do? The system seems designed to qualify you for the Indian Civil Service in 1911. We all leave school unable to drive! Now that would be quite handy.\n\nMoffat discussed similar institutional and political issues with \"The Independent\":\n\nStaffrooms are funny places, full of articulate, mad people. They have a tremendous sense of black humour, but there's a layer of dust over them. They are immature because they're in a children's environment all the time. They have a strange perspective; because they spend all day with kids, they are more aware of kids' culture than adults'. When they read about a former pupil who has become head of ICI, they always say, 'But that boy's an idiot. He's crap at geography.' The boy is condemned forever because in the 1960s he didn't know all the capitals of the Third World.\n\n\"The Independent\" reported that Moffat \"stresses that \"Chalk\" is a sitcom, not some banner-waving, agitprop pamphlet\", but is still \"passionate about education\". Moffat criticises \"the <nowiki>[</nowiki>Conservative<nowiki>]</nowiki> government talk about the specially talented needing more education, but that's absurd, the equivalent of hospitals for the healthy.\" Moffat expected that teachers would find the show funny because it \"has certain notes of accuracy\", recognising familiar myths such as the dead teacher and teachers' contempt for their pupils. Moffat continued to say that teachers would \"also recognise the pathological preference for science over arts and all that league-table shit. An official teaching organisation couldn't say, 'It's a very faithful portrayal,' but I hope they'd say, 'It's a comedy series. Why take it seriously?' You couldn't claim it is the most flattering series, but, there again, people continued to stay at hotels after \"Fawlty Towers\".\"\n\nAs with \"Joking Apart\", Ptaszynski produced \"Chalk\" for independent production company Pola Jones. The positive reaction of the studio audience during recording of the first series in 1996 propelled executives to commission a second set of six episodes before the first batch had aired.\n\nAll of the location shots for \"Chalk\" were filmed at the beginning of the production block. Acland Burghley School, in the Tufnell Park area of Camden, London, provided the exterior of the fictional Galfast High. The cast recall that it was difficult to perform comedy on location without a studio audience to gauge the reception and success of the jokes. Another school near Wembley was used for large interior shots, such as the school hall featured in the episode \"The Inspection\". Rehearsals took place in BBC premises in Acton, west London, colloquially known by those in the industry as the \"Acton Hilton\". David Bamber, his colleagues note, knew the script at the beginning of rehearsals and never dropped a line. The cast recall that director Juliet May provided a calm working environment; rather than losing her temper when things went wrong, she instead focussed everyone's mind on how to solve the problem.\n\nAfter the exterior shots had been filmed, the episodes were recorded at BBC Television Centre in London. Most of the episodes were recorded in studios three or four, but occasionally the larger studio eight was used. After a week's rehearsals, the episodes were filmed on Sundays. The cast and crew would have a camera rehearsal followed by a dress run. After a supper, the cast were introduced to the studio audience. The studio audience responded very positively to the show during recordings. However, Moffat reflects that the show's style was not suited to the home audience. In a 2012 interview, he says:\n\nOf any sitcom I’ve ever witnessed being made, and I’ve seen loads of them like \"Men Behaving Badly\" and \"The Vicar of Dibley\", \"Chalk\" had the biggest laughs on the night. As a piece of theatre it was brilliant in the studio – people came back every week; the audiences were rapturous. The trouble was when I watched the tape at home, it was far too loud and raucous [for TV].\n\nThe BBC commissioned a second series based on the studio audience reactions during recordings. As development on series two had reached a relatively late stage when the first had received negative reviews upon transmission, it was too late to cancel the production. The cast and crew, then, had to work on a show which they knew was widely disliked. Moffat reflects on the experience: \"There's no feeling on earth like working on a show that you know is doomed and already tanking.\"\n\nBBC executives insisted that the title be changed as they felt that \"Chalk\" did not stand out in the schedules. They were also concerned that the title might be somewhat anachronistic because schools were beginning to use whiteboards rather than blackboards. Many people, including the actors, attempted to think of alternatives, but instead reverted to \"Chalk\".\n\nFunding was running low towards the end of filming the first series. Moffat contrived an episode, \"The Staff Meeting\", where all of the main cast would be locked in the staff room to avoid paying for any guest actors. To reduce expenditure further, crew members were enlisted to provide the voices for the television news report at the end of the episode: producer Andre Ptaszynski played the broadcast journalist, whilst second assistant director Sarah Daman voiced the protesting student Gail Bennett. When a guest actor delivered an inadequate performance of the psychiatric doctor at the end of \"The Inspection\", Moffat coached assistant director Stacey Adair to perform the line. However, professional actor C.J. Allen lived near to the location and he was enlisted to deliver the line instead.\n\nThe expense and restrictions placed upon child actors limited the number of pupils that could be featured. The non-speaking extras had to be licensed, a process that took four weeks, providing difficulties for assistant director Stacey Adair. The episode \"Both Called Eric\" features Antony Costa as one of the pupils, one of his earliest TV roles before going on to appear in \"Grange Hill\" and in the boy band Blue.\n\nThe sitcom is based at the fictional comprehensive school Galfast High. It begins with the arrival of the young new English teacher Suzie Travis (Nicola Walker). She immediately encounters the chaos of the school, a chaos enhanced by the manic Deputy Head Eric Slatt (David Bamber). \"The Guardian\" retrospectively commented that the show's \"best episodes of ... manouevred their unwitting participants towards a climax of terrible sexual humiliation or violence.\"\n\nMoffat integrated many references to secondary characters and locations from his previous BAFTA winning show \"Press Gang\" into \"Chalk\". For instance, the \"Chalk\" character Eric Slatt refers to his neighbouring school Norbridge High, run by Mr Sullivan: these were the names of the school and deputy headmaster in \"Press Gang\". The scene where Slatt is being given instructions by wire is taken from the unfilmed \"Press Gang\" movie \"Dead Line\". The pornographic video \"Lesbian Spank Inferno\", owned by Dan McGill in the final episode, is later referenced in the \"Coupling\" episode \"Inferno\". In an interview with \"The New York Times\", Moffat admitted that the video is inspired by his then-new partner, Sue Vertue, finding a similar video in their VCR.\n\nEric Slatt (David Bamber) is the deputy headmaster of Galfast High, who seems to \"deepen the many crises that face the school (most of Slatt’s own making)\". Jeff Evans, writing in \"The Penguin TV Companion\", observed that \"Slatt is certainly keen, but regrettably he is also unbalanced, tactless, clumsy, snobby, sarcastic, at times pointlessly aggressive and always prone to appalling errors of judgment (an academic version of Basil Fawlty, it was widely noted)\". \"The Independent\" commented: \"\"Chalk\" is in the idiom of sadistic farce: disaster begets catastrophe begets apocalypse, and they all engulf Slatt. There are inevitable echoes of other sitcom characters - a dash of Basil Fawlty's unquenchable apoplexy, a slice of Gordon Brittas's purblind monomania - but Slatt's entanglements are caused by his own cocktail of failings.\" Nicola Walker commented that viewers sympathise with Slatt because he is in charge of a bunch of lunatics. Moffat told \"The Herald\" that Slatt was inspired by a real person:\n\nMy main character, the deputy head, is a manic git, and he's based on a guy I never actually met and is therefore being denigrated terribly. He had already retired by the time I started but I used to get a lift to work from his wife, who still worked there. And she would tell me stories about him with the affectionate disdain of anyone who has been married for more than a year. In the staff room, all these bitter teachers who hadn't been promoted would describe him as someone who would only briefly consider stopping short of invading Poland if he got the chance. I've since found out that the real man is actually a very nice bloke.\n\nPtaszynski had attempted to persuade his friend Angus Deayton, who wanted to move into more acting roles away from \"Have I Got News for You\", to play Slatt. The producer reflects that Deayton would have brought a more \"sardonic\" element to the character. The cast regularly teased David Bamber during rehearsals, speculating upon how Deayton might have performed a particular line or sequence.\n\nJanet Slatt (Geraldine Fitzgerald) is Eric's wife and the school's secretary. She has an antagonistic relationship with Eric, with each regularly the butt of the other's jokes. For instance, Eric suggests one morning that she had not shaved, and that she should rest her hind legs.\n\nSuzy Travis (Nicola Walker) is a new English teacher who arrives at the school in the first episode. The press described Suzy as \"the voice of sanity at Galfast High and the thorn in Slatt's side.\"\n\nAmanda Trippley (Amanda Boxer) is the neurotic music teacher. Throughout the series, she invents her pupils to prevent her department being closed, uses the school's telephone network to surf the internet about \"Star Trek\", and demands the return of a musical instrument from a former pupil now on death row.\n\nDan McGill (Martin Ball) is a young teacher who instantly develops a crush on Suzy when she arrives at the school, and attempts to date her throughout the series. The character is given most prominence in \"The Staff Meeting\" episode, which was written in order to save money by not having any guest actors. In this episode it is revealed that Dan has agreed to teach several subjects in order to keep his job. Suzy is dismayed to find that he invented an entire language when he became a foreign languages teacher, and then invented its country (Estranzia) when made a Geography teacher. After Ball's performance in that episode, Moffat promised him that he would not underwrite him in the second series.\n\nMr Humboldt (Andrew Livingston), a teacher who is terrified that others might discover his sexuality. Slatt, who knows Humboldt's secret uses it to manipulate him, but Suzy (who assumes he is merely gay) encourages him to \"come out\". When he does so however, she is shocked to discover that he is actually a sadomasochist.\n\nMr Carkdale (John Grillo), the head of English, very rarely utters anything but expletives. Struggling to find a rationale for his character, Grillo paced up and down a rehearsal room carrying a brown briefcase, which he remembers all of his own teachers carrying around, and shouting profanities.\n\nMr Richard Nixon (John Wells) was the headteacher in the first series. Evans observes that he \"shows precious little leadership\", and the running of the school seems to fall to Slatt. Wells was too ill to participate in the second series, and died a year after its transmission.\n\nMr J.F. Kennedy (Duncan Preston) replaced Mr Nixon as the head in the second series. Like Nixon, Mr Kennedy takes a back-seat in the developments. In the final episode he reads a letter from the former head, which inadvertently serves to show how their characters are identical.\n\nJason Cockfoster (Damien Matthews) is a young religious education teacher. He arrives at the school in the first series episode \"Both Called Eric\", and appears more regularly in the second series. Suzy is immediately attracted to him, making Dan McGill so jealous that he tells the pupils that he is Satan. The character was a deliberate attempt to add some sex appeal to the show.\n\nDue to the positive reaction of the studio audience during recordings, a second series was commissioned before the first had started to be transmitted. However, the show was, as Mark Lawson summarised, \"widely disliked\". The BBC's publicity department compared \"Chalk\" to \"Fawlty Towers\" in the publicity materials. Critics, though, took exception to a new show being compared to such a renowned and respected programme. The cast point out that \"Fawlty Towers\" and \"Chalk\" are completely different shows, while Nicola Walker says that the comparison is like being asked to be \"compared to a comedy God\". Writing for the BBC Guide to Comedy, Mark Lewisohn observes that the critical reception was mixed, with \"its detractors pointing out that Eric Slatt was a carbon copy of John Cleese's Basil Fawlty [and] its supporters praising its non-PC, off-the-wall approach and the breathlessly paced plots that delivered moments of high farce.\" Lewisohn also comments that while some elements of the show resemble \"Please Sir!\", \"\"Chalk\" more closely resembled the ill-fated \"Hardwicke House\" with its concentration on the teachers rather than the pupils, dark themes and overall depiction of the teachers as ... nuts.\" Tom Lappin for \"Scotland on Sunday\" derided the combination of Chris Barrie's Gordon Brittas and Cleese's Basil Fawlty.\n\nThe first four episodes were transmitted at 21:30, but the final two episodes of the second series were moved to 22:20. The second series received an unstable timeslot, being replaced in its more mainstream slot by \"Men Behaving Badly\". Commenting on the second series, the Glasgow \"Herald\" said, \"the manic depute head of Galfast High, Eric Slatt, is looking more and more like Basil Fawlty on a bad day. So are those of us who remain glued to it in ghoulish fascination to see if it can get any worse.\" Tabloid newspaper \"The Mirror\" published a damming review of the show's second series opener:\n\nThe head of comedy at Television Centre deserves six of the best for bringing back \"Chalk\" (BBC1) for a second term. If the opening episode of the new series is anything to go by, we are in for six of the worst half-hours of comedy in the history of television ... It is no surprise that the show has been relegated to a late slot. It is a watershed for smut. Some of the jokes were in the worst possible taste. The standards of comedy are so pitiful, Galfast High School should not have been given a grant from TV licence-payers' money and it is time it closed its gates for good. David Bamber ... deserves a better vehicle for his acting talents. He was lured into playing Eric Slatt because the character was supposed to be the classroom equivalent of Basil Fawlty. They are as different as Chalk and Cleese.\n\nIn an interview in the early 2000s, Moffat refused to even mention \"Chalk\", joking that he might get attacked in the street. The first series received criticism from some teachers and teaching unions, who criticised the representation of their professions. Letters were printed in specialist publications such as the \"Education Guardian\". The Association of Teachers and Lecturers labelled \"Chalk\" as \"perverse\" and \"vapid\", and its leader called upon the show to be axed. Teachers, according to the \"Daily Record\", complained that the show portrayed teachers as \"mentally unstable\", and deterred people from entering the profession. John Grillo, who played Mr Carkdale, recalls that he was appearing in a West End play at the time he was auditioning for the role; a fellow actor in the play was meant to be auditioning for \"Chalk\" but, having been a deputy head teacher earlier in his career, was so disgusted by the material that he refused to attend. The unions' derision actually inspired \"The Times\"'s Matthew Bond to like the show. However, despite identifying \"genuine humour\" such as Slatt's rant against French teachers, Bond's review is largely critical. He concedes, \"the teaching organisations, you see, are half right. Slatt has no credible basis in the teaching profession, but far more importantly he has no credible basis in the human race. And what we don't believe in, we rarely find funny.\"\n\nKevin Lygo, the show's executive producer and head of Independent Commissions Entertainment, who commissioned the series defending the show from the union's criticisms, saying: \"\"Chalk\" is a comedy. Just as Ben Elton's \"Thin Blue Line\" does not reflect the modern police force nor \"The Vicar of Dibley\" the Church of England today, \"Chalk\" was never intended to reflect life in British schools.\" Moffat said that \"Chalk\" was written \"just for larks\" and was not intended as a serious political diatribe. However, \"Scotland on Sunday\" responded in a piece placing \"Chalk\" in the context of other television shows about schools: \"where such dramas fall down is not in shirking some contrived social responsibility but in their playing up to so many daft myths about the teaching profession. They could almost be written by one of those strange politicians who deny there is an education crises in Britain.\"\n\nThe first three episodes were released on VHS in the United Kingdom on 7 September 1998 by BBC Video (now 2entertain). During a DVD audio commentary for \"Coupling\", Moffat claims that \"no-one bought it\", including him.\n\nThe complete first series was released on Region 2 PAL DVD by ReplayDVD, the independent label that had released \"Joking Apart\", on 15 December 2008. The disc contains audio commentaries on all six episodes; Nicola Walker, Martin Ball, Geraldine Fitzgerald and John Grillo commentate over four of the episodes, with David Bamber and Amanda Boxer contributing to the remaining two. All of the above, along with producer Andre Ptaszynski, also feature in a 45-minute retrospective documentary, \"After the Chalk Dust Settled.\"\n\nSeries 2 has received no home media release of any kind.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853529", "title": "SAT Airlines", "text": "SAT Airlines\n\nOJSC \"SAT Airlines — Sakhalinskie Aviatrassy\" (), commonly known as SAT Airlines, was an airline based in Sakhalin, Russia. It provided scheduled regional air services in Russia's Far East and to destinations in China, South Korea and Japan. Other services included charter flights, search and rescue operations, firefighting and aerial patrols. Its main base was Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk Airport.\n\nThe airline was amalgamated with Vladivostok Air to form new carrier Aurora in October 2013, the new company retained SAT Airlines IATA and ICAO codes.\n\nThe Joint Stock Company, Sakhalinskie Aviatrassy — SAT Airlines was established as a result of the reorganisation of the Sakhalin United Detachment. It was established and started operations on 20 April 1992. Its sole owner was the Government of the Russian Federation. It employed 574 staff.\n\n \n\nIn October 2013, SAT Airlines operated flights to the following destinations:\n\n\nIn October 2013, SAT Airlines' fleet consisted of the following aircraft:\n\n"}
{"id": "1853530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853530", "title": "Hans Christian Henriksen", "text": "Hans Christian Henriksen\n\nHans Christian Henriksen (25 June 1909 – 26 August 1983) was a Norwegian businessperson.\n\nHe was born in Kristiania as a son of Gustav Severin Henriksen and Lisken Dall. In 1934 he married Agnes Cecilie Egeberg, a daughter of Einar Westye Egeberg, Jr. and Kitty Parr. He became a student in 1927 and graduated from the University of Neuchâtel in 1931 with a degree in economics.\n\nHe was hired in the Norwegian America Line in 1933 and worked as director of the Norwegian America Line Agency Inc in New York from 1935 to 1939. He returned to Norway as office manager in 1939, and became vice chief executive in 1947. He was then the chief executive officer from 1948 to 1973.\n\nHe chaired the Oslo Stock Exchange Committee from 1956 to 1970 and the Norwegian Society for Sea Rescue from 1956 to 1961. He chaired Norsk Marconi Co and was a board member of Saudefaldene and Electric Furnace Products Company in Sauda, Meråker Smelteverk, Polaris-Norske Sjø, Skips-A/S Malmtransport, Assuranceforeningen Skuld, Nordisk Defence Club and the Norwegian Shipowners' Association. He chaired the supervisory council of Christiania Bank og Kreditkasse, Akers Mekaniske Verksted and Brage-Fram.\n\nHe was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav (1956) and the Order of Vasa, was an Officer of the Legion of Honour and the Order of Oranje-Nassau, was a Commander of the Ordre national du Mérite and held the St. Olav's Medal.\n"}
{"id": "1853532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853532", "title": "Steve James (actor)", "text": "Steve James (actor)\n\nSteve James (February 19, 1952 – December 18, 1993) was an American actor, stunt performer and martial artist. He starred mostly in action films such as the \"American Ninja\" series, \"The Delta Force\" (1986), \"The Exterminator\" (1980), and \"Enter the Game of Death\" (1978). James also portrayed Kung Fu Joe in the 1988 comedy/spoof film \"I'm Gonna Git You Sucka\", and its 1990 television pilot spinoff \"Hammer, Slammer, & Slade\".\n\nJames was born and raised in New York City. His father was trumpet player Hubie James, and his uncle was James Wall, who played Mr. Baxter on the children's television series \"Captain Kangaroo\". His godfather was Joe Seneca who, among many roles, played Danny Glover's character's father in \"Silverado\". Joe Seneca was instrumental in Steve becoming interested in action films as he took him to movies on 42nd Street when he was a child. He graduated from Power Memorial Academy in 1970, then attended C.W. Post College as an Arts and Film major. Upon graduating, he became involved in stage work and TV commercials. James started his film career off as a stunt performer for such New York based film productions as \"The Wiz\", \"The Warriors\", and \"The Wanderers.\" He began playing bit parts in the mid 1970s appearing in films such as \"The Land That Time Forgot\" (1975), \"Enter the Game of Death\" (1978) and \"The Warriors\" (1979). In the early 1980s, he played roles in several low-budget films such as \"The Exterminator\" (1980), \"He Knows You're Alone\" (1980) and \"The Soldier\" (1982). He also guest-starred in episodes of television series such as \"T.J. Hooker\", \"E/R\" and \"The Dukes of Hazzard\". \n\nIn 1985, he had a co-starring role alongside Michael Dudikoff in the martial arts action film \"American Ninja\" and reprised his role in its sequels \"\" (1987) and \"\" (1989). During this period, he was often cast as a supporting character or secondary lead in several action films. He co-starred with Chuck Norris in \"The Delta Force\" (1986) and \"Hero and the Terror\" (1988). He also played supporting roles in films of other genres such as the science-fiction comedy \"The Brother From Another Planet\" (1984), the drama \"Mask\" (1985) and the sports comedy \"Johnny Be Good\" (1988). He played Kung Fu Joe in the 1988 spoof comedy film \"I'm Gonna Git You Sucka\" and reprised his role in the spin-off television film \"Hammer, Slammer & Slade\" (1990). He played rare leading roles in the action films \"Riverbend\" (1989) and \"Street Hunter\" (1990). In 1993, he appeared in the comedy \"Weekend at Bernie's II\" which was the last film to be released during his lifetime.\n\nShortly before his death from cancer in December 1993, he had completed filming the 1994 feature film \"\" with Don \"The Dragon\" Wilson and the pilot for the TV series \"M.A.N.T.I.S.\". The pilot first aired on Fox just a few weeks after his death.\n\nOn December 18, 1993, James died of pancreatic cancer in his home in Burbank, California at age 41.\n\nEulogies at Steve's funeral service were delivered by Sidney Poitier (as his widow, Chris, was employed by Mr. Poitier), his father Hubie James, his friend John A. Gallagher and Christine Pan James. His urn resides on the mantle of his home in Burbank, California.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853533", "title": "Steve James (snooker player)", "text": "Steve James (snooker player)\n\nStephen James (born 2 May 1961) is a retired English professional snooker player.\n\nA former postman, the high point of his career was his sole ranking title – the Classic in 1990, beating Australian Warren King 10–6 in the final. His world ranking peaked at number seven the following season, the best of his five seasons in the top sixteen.\n\nOn 14 April 1990, in his match against Alex Higgins at the World Snooker Championship in Sheffield, James became the first player to produce a 16-red total clearance in competitive play. In other words, he potted 16 reds and 16 colours consecutively, followed by all the coloured balls in order: a situation that was only possible because he was awarded a free ball before any red had been potted.\n\nA year later he reached the semi-finals of the World Snooker Championship, beating defending champion Stephen Hendry in the quarter-finals (it was six years before anyone else beat Hendry in the tournament: Ken Doherty in 1997). He was beaten in the semi-final by Jimmy White, with whom he shares his birthday (James is one year older).\n\nJames became wealthy through snooker, but was banned from driving in 1996, and in 1998 declared himself bankrupt after spending £700,000 on \"fast living\", even having to sell his practice table. His financial problems saw him turn to drinking heavily. A diabetic, James missed the British Open in 2004 due to a kidney infection.\n\nHe was the first player ever to score two centuries on his Crucible debut, including a 140, the second highest by a debutant of all time. In addition to 1991, he reached the quarter-finals on his debut in 1988, and the last 16 on three further occasions.\n"}
{"id": "1853535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853535", "title": "Augustus Le Plongeon", "text": "Augustus Le Plongeon\n\nAugustus Henry Julian Le Plongeon (May 4, 1826 – December 13, 1908) was a British-American photographer, archeologist, antiquarian and author who studied the pre-Columbian ruins of America, particularly those of the Maya civilization on the northern Yucatán Peninsula. While his writings contain many controversial notions that were not well received by his contemporaries and were later disproven, Le Plongeon left a lasting legacy in his photographs documenting the ancient ruins. He should also be regarded as one of the earliest proponents of Mayanism.\n\nLe Plongeon was born on the island of Jersey on May 4, 1826. At 19, he sailed to South America and shipwrecked off the coast of Chile. While there he settled in Valparaiso and taught mathematics, drawing, and languages at a local college. In 1849 he sailed to San Francisco during the California gold rush to work as a surveyor, and also apprenticed to become a doctor of medicine. One of his accomplishments as a surveyor included drawing a plan for the layout of the town of Marysville, California in the Central Valley in 1851. Augustus was paid for his services as a surveyor with land deeds. He profited from the sale of these plots and this income would fund the majority of his archeological expeditions.\n\nLe Plongeon traveled to England and saw a demonstration for new photographic processes at The Great Exhibition. He then stayed in England to study photography under William Fox Talbot. Augustus wanted to test these methods in tropical climates so he spent time traveling to St. Thomas, Virgin Islands as well as Mexico, Australia, China, and the Pacific Islands. He returned to San Francisco to open a daguerreotype portrait studio on Clay Street. In 1862, he traveled to Lima, Peru and opened another photography studio and an \"electro-hydropathic\" medical clinic based on an early form of alternative medicine.\n\nLe Plongeon pioneered the use of photography as a tool for his studies. He began using the wet collodion glass-plate negative process he used for studio portraits to record his explorations. He traveled extensively all over Peru for eight years visiting and photographing ancient ruins, including Tiahuanaco. Augustus also joined a number of E. G. Squier's expeditions and took photographs out in the field. Le Plongeon was influenced by the work of Charles Étienne Brasseur de Bourbourg, John Lloyd Stephens, and Frederick Catherwood. These works, in combination with his own explorations in Peru, led Le Plongeon to believe that civilization had its origins in the New World.\n\nWhile in Peru Augustus became interested in the causes of earthquakes. He was able to observe the 1868 Arica earthquake and he studied the resulting damage and interviewed people about what they experienced. During this time Le Plongeon began to speak out against abuses by Jesuit priests and the Catholic Church in Peru. He published two anti-Jesuit books, \"La religion de Jesus comparada con las ensenanzas de la Iglesia\" (1867), and \"Los Jesuitas y el Peru\" (1869).\n\nIn 1870, he left Peru and traveled back once again to San Francisco where he gave a number of illustrated lectures at the California Academy of Sciences on Peruvian archaeology and the causes of earthquakes. His travels then continued on to New York, and by 1871 he was at the British Museum in London studying Mesoamerican manuscripts.\n\nWhile in London he met Alice Dixon, the woman with whom he would collaborate for the rest of his life. Alice was born in London in 1851. Her father, Henry Dixon, was recognized in the late nineteenth century for his contribution to the development of panchromatic photography, and for his photos of London architecture taken for the Society for Photographing Relics of Old London. Alice learned the techniques of photography from her father and worked as an assistant in his studio. After meeting Augustus, she became interested in ancient American civilizations and studied John L. Stephen's \"Incidents of Travel in Yucatan.\" She agreed to accompany Augustus on an archaeology expedition to study Maya ruins in Mexico. The pair left for New York to finalize preparations for the trip. They married in New York before traveling to Mexico in 1873.\n\nIn 1873, the Le Plongeons traveled to Yucatán to study ancient Maya sites. Their goal was to explore the possibility of links between the Maya and the civilizations of ancient Egypt and Atlantis. Their first stop was in Mérida and they stayed there while Alice recovered from yellow fever. During her recuperation, the couple made connections with local scholars and both Augustus and Alice learned to speak Yucatec Maya. After Alice had recovered, the Le Plongeons made a short excursion to Uxmal.\n\nThe Le Plongeons were in Yucatán during the Caste War, a conflict between the Maya, called the Chan Santa Cruz, and the army of Yucatán. When they traveled to Chicen Itza in 1875, they were accompanied by a military escort. When they arrived at the site, local Maya men were hired to clear the vegetation and help with excavations.\n\nThe Le Plongeons were some of the first people to photograph and study Chicen Itza. Their photographic work was methodical and systematic, and they took hundreds of 3-D photos. They documented entire Maya buildings, such as the \"Governor's Palace\" at Uxmal, in overlapping photos by placing the camera on a tall tripod or scaffold to correct for perspective and then processed the plates in the unlit rooms of Maya buildings. In addition to entire facades of buildings, they also photographed small artifacts, and architectural details such as bas-reliefs, Maya hieroglyphic inscriptions, and sculptures. They excavated buildings, drew maps and copied murals, and made molds of bas-reliefs.\nAt Chichen Itza they excavated a structure known as the Platform of the Eagles and Jaguars and unearthed a large statue or altar figurine. They coined the name \"Chaacmol\" (later \"Chac Mool\" or \"chacmool\") for it. Although their derivation of the name is known now to have had no association with figures of this type, the name has remained in general use among later archaeologists. This statue would later be used as a demonstration of Toltec influences at the site, with other examples found at the Toltec capital, Tula. They also documented their excavation of the Platform of Venus with photos as well as plan and cross-section drawings.\n\nFrom 1873 to 1884, the Le Plongeons visited and photographed other Maya sites such as Izamal, Isla Mujeres, Cozumel, Cancún, and Ake, and traveled to Belize (British Honduras). During this time they made a few trips back to New York to attempt to sell bas-relief molds to museums, give lectures, and solicit financial backing for their studies. \nBy the 1880s, while most Mayanists accepted that the Maya civilization postdated Ancient Egypt, Le Plongeon stood by his theories. He cited his years of fieldwork and studies of archival sources, and challenged those he considered \"armchair\" archaeologists to debate the issues. However, as evidence mounted against cultural diffusion, Le Plongeon became marginalized and his theories fell further outside the growing mainstream of Maya archaeology.\n\nLe Plongeon insisted that the symbols of Freemasonry could be traced to the ancient Maya and that the ancient knowledge had come to ancient Egypt from the ancient Maya by way of Atlantis. He and Alice constructed an imaginative \"history,\" with the Maya sites in Yucatán being the cradle of civilization, with civilization then traveling east first to Atlantis and later to Ancient Egypt. The Le Plongeons named kings and queens of these dynasties and said that various artworks were portraits of such ancient royalty (such as the famous Chacmool, which the couple excavated at Chichén Itzá). The Le Plongeons reconstructed a detailed but fanciful story of Queen Moo and Prince Coh (also known as \"Chac Mool\") in which Prince Coh's death resulted in the erection of monuments in his honor (similar to the commemoration of Prince Albert by Queen Victoria).\n\nWhile most of Le Plongeon's contemporaries dismissed his theories, individuals such as Ignatius L. Donnelly and Helena Blavatsky drew upon Le Plongeon's research for their own theories. Augustus spent the remainder of his life in Brooklyn, New York, writing about the connections between Maya and Egypt and defending himself against detractors. Augustus le Plongeon died in Brooklyn in 1908 at the age of eighty-three; Alice followed in 1910 at the age of fifty-nine.\n\nA collection of the works of the Le Plongeons currently resides at the Getty Research Institute in Los Angeles. The archive contains original records covering their travels from the 1860s through the early 1900s, including diaries, unpublished scholarly manuscripts and notes, correspondence, and extensive photographic documentation of ancient architecture and sculpture, city views, and ethnographic studies.\n\nLe Plongeon was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1878.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853549", "title": "Signy Research Station", "text": "Signy Research Station\n\nSigny Research Station (originally Station H) is an Antarctic research base on Signy Island, run by the British Antarctic Survey.\n\nSigny was first occupied in 1947 when a three-man meteorological station was established in Factory Cove above the old whaling station. It was the second research base on the South Orkney Islands (after the Argentine Orcadas Base in 1903). In 1955, a new hut, Tønsberg House was built on the site of the whaling station. In 1963, it was turned into a laboratory for biological research. Initially operated year-round, since 1995/6 the station has been open from November to April each year (southern hemisphere summer).\n\nToday, the base has four buildings with capacity for 8 people. The main building, Sørlle House (named after the whaling captain Petter Sørlle, who himself named Signy Island), provides living accommodation and laboratories. The other buildings are for storage and provision of power and water services. There are also four small huts around the island.\n\nMarine and terrestrial biology is carried out at Signy, particularly looking at the effects of climate change on the southern ocean ecosystems. Three species of penguin (Adélie, chinstrap and gentoo) are monitored at the base.\n\nTo continue an original time series of visual sea ice observations after the station became summer-only, an automated sea ice camera now operates all year around, providing a continuous record of sea ice extent near the station for over 50 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853555", "title": "Michał Zdzisław Zamoyski", "text": "Michał Zdzisław Zamoyski\n\nMichał Zdzisław Zamoyski (1679–1735) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nMichał became the 6th Ordynat of Zamość estate. He was Great Łowczy of the Crown since 1714, voivode of Smolensk Voivodeship since 1732 and starost of Gniew, Bratian, Lebork, Bolemów. He became Knight of the Order of the White Eagle, awarded on 3 August 1732.\n"}
{"id": "1853558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853558", "title": "Oswaldo Goeldi", "text": "Oswaldo Goeldi\n\nOswaldo Goeldi (31 October 1895 – 16 February 1961) was a Brazilian artist and renowned engraver. He was the son of Swiss naturalist Émil Goeldi.\n\nGoeldi was born in born in Rio de Janeiro, but lived in Belém, in the state Pará, until he was 6 years old. His father was based there as director of the Museu de História Natural e Etnografia do Pará (presently the Emílio Goeldi Museum). In 1910 his family returned to Switzerland and he started his studies in Bern, and later in Zurich. After serving for a brief period in the army during the First World War, Goeldi moved to Geneva, where he was accepted at the École des Arts et Métiers. Frustrated with the academic environment, he abandoned the school after his father’s death in 1917 and began studying with artists Serge Pahnke (1875-1950) and Henri van Muyden (1860-s.d.), and later with Hermann Kümmerly, with whom he learned lithography.\n\nIn 1919 Goeldi returned to Rio de Janeiro and began a career of engraver and illustrator for popular magazines. He became attached to a group of vanguardist artists and intellectuals, such as Beatrix Reynal, Aníbal Machado (1894-1964), Otto Maria Carpeaux (1900-1978), Manuel Bandeira (1886-1968), Álvaro Moreyra (1888-1964), Ronald de Carvalho (1893-1935), Emiliano Di Cavalcanti (1897-1976) and Rachel de Queiroz (1910-2003). During this period, he worked intensely as an artist and did his first individual exposition, which was, however, poorly received by the art critics. Wounded by the criticisms, Goeldi withdrew from the artistic scene and isolated himself in the city of Niterói. Solitary, he supported himself more and more as a well known illustrator for book editions and magazines, working mainly with xylogravures. He also became estranged from his family in 1922, refusing their appeal to return to Europe. He took part in the Week of Modern Art in São Paulo that year. His first album, “10 Gravuras em Madeira” was edited in 1930, allowing Goeldi to save enough money to return to Europe en 1931. He exposed in Bern and Berlin, and visited again his great inspirators, Alfred Kubin and Hermann Kümmerli.\n\nIn the following decades, after returning to Brazil, Goeldi’s artistic prestige was strengthened, and he was accepted at the 25th Venice Bienal in 1950. He became nationally and internationally known and got his first prize, in the First International Art Bienal of São Paulo, in 1951. From 1952 until his death, Goeldi became a respected and influential art teacher in the Escola Nacional de Belas Artes.\n\nHe died on February 15, 1961, alone in his small apartment in Rio.\n\nGoeldi's work has been exposed post-humously in more than a hundred expositions in Brazil, Argentina, France, Portugal, Switzerland and Spain.\n\n\"Each trace is a piece of nerve with the vehemence of a barbarian heart\" (\"Cada traço é um pedaço de nervo com a veemência de um coração bárbaro\") - about his own work.\nAfter his death several posthumous exhibitions were already accomplished with its works, and starting from Goeldi's Project creation, all collection and photographic file is classified in the Institution\n\n"}
{"id": "1853570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853570", "title": "Mesa of Lost Women", "text": "Mesa of Lost Women\n\nMesa of Lost Women is a 1953 American low-budget black-and-white science fiction film directed by Ron Ormond and Herbert Tevos from a screenplay by Tevos and Orville H. Hampton.\n\nThe film opens with a brief scene serving as its introduction. A man is being caressed by feminine hands. The next shot includes the face of the woman, Tarantella (Tandra Quinn). A brief kiss between her and the man, ends with his lifeless body falling down. A disembodied voice asks the audience \"\"Have you ever been kissed by a girl like this?\"\" The narrative properly begins in a desert. A narrator (Lyle Talbot) mocks the overblown ego of humanity, a race of puny bipeds which claims to own planet Earth and every living thing on it. Yet, they are outnumbered by the insects, and the Hexapods are likely to survive longer than humans. The narrator then claims that when men or women venture off \"\"the well beaten path of civilization\"\" and deal with the unknown, the price of their survival is the loss of their sanity.\n\nDuring this narration, the film introduces its protagonists Grant Phillips (Robert Knapp) and Doreen Culbertson (Paula Hill). The narrator explains that the two of them are lost in the \"great Mexican desert\", the \"Muerto desert\". They are nearly dead from dehydration and sunburn when discovered by an American surveyor and his Mexican companion. These characters are identified as Frank (John Martin) and Pepe (Chrispin Martin). The two victims of the desert recover their senses in \"Amer-Exico Field Hospital\", somewhere in Mexico. Grant starts narrating his story to Doc Tucker (Allan Nixon), foreman Dan Mulcahey (Richard Travis), and Pepe.\n\nThe film flash-backs to events occurring a year earlier in Zarpa Mesa. Famous scientist Leland Masterson (Harmon Stevens) arrives, having accepted an invitation from a fellow scientist named Dr. Aranya (Jackie Coogan). Aranya (name derived from the Spanish \"araña\" for spider) has reportedly penned \"brilliant\" scientific treatises, and Masterson looks forward to meeting him in person. Masterson is genuinely intrigued by Aranya's theories, but his host informs Masterson that his work is not theoretical. He has already completed successful experiments, creating both human-sized tarantula spiders and human women with the abilities and instincts of spiders. His creation Tarantella has regenerative abilities, sufficient to regrow severed limbs. He seriously expects her to have a lifespan of several centuries. His experiments have had less success in male humans, who simply turn to disfigured dwarfs.\n\nMasterson is horrified and denounces Aranya and his creations, proclaiming that they should be destroyed. In response, Aranya has him injected with a drug, turning him into a doddering simpleton. The front page of a newspaper called \"Southwest Journal\" explains that Masterson was eventually found wandering in the desert. He was declared insane and placed in an asylum. Some time later, Masterson escapes the \"Muerto State Asylum\". He is next seen two days later, in an unnamed American town of the Mexico–United States border. Also present there are Tarantella, businessman Jan van Croft (Nico Lek), and his fiancée Doreen. They were heading to Mexico for their wedding day, but their private airplane had engine problems and stranded them there. Jan's servant Wu (Samuel Wu) is seen exchanging glances with Tarantella. It serves as the first sign that he is working with her.\n\nMasterson is tracked to the bar by his nurse at the asylum, George (George Barrows, the \"monster\" in \"Robot Monster\"). The entire bar and its patrons observe Tarantella perform an energetic dance. Masterson apparently recognizes her, pulls a handgun, and shoots her. He then takes Jan, Doreen, and George hostage. He heads for Jan's private airplane and he forces pilot Grant to prepare for takeoff, despite the pilot's protests that only one engine is fully functional. The airplane departs with Doreen, George, Grant, Jan, Masterson, and Wu aboard it. Meanwhile, Tarantella regenerates following her apparent death, and leaves the bar.\n\nIn mid-flight, Grant discovers that someone sabotaged the gyrocompass, resulting in them flying towards the wrong direction for most of the flight. Wu's facial expression allows the audience to learn who was the saboteur. The airplane crash-lands atop Zarpa Mesa, where the creations of Aranya were expecting them. For a while being, the creations simply observe them from afar. The film follows the activities of the stranded group for quite a while. There is sexual tension between Grant and Doreen, culminating in a passionate kiss. Meanwhile, the group dwindles with the deaths of first George, secondly Wu, and lastly Jan. Wu is confirmed to have served as an agent of Aranya, but one who outlived his usefulness.\n\nThe last three members of the group are then captured. Grant soon recognizes that their captor's name is identical to the Spanish term for \"spider\", \"araña\". Aranya cures Masterson from drug-induced imbecility, hoping to recruit him. This backfires as Masterson uses his intellect in a suicide attack. He allows Doreen and Grant to escape, then sets up an explosion which kills himself and everyone else. The flashback ends and we return to the hospital. He fails to convince anyone but Pepe of the truth in his story. Yet the finale reveals that at least one of Aranya's spider-women has survived.\n\n\nThe film was originally made by Pergor Productions under the title \"Tarantula\" and was viewed and granted a Motion Picture Production Code seal in October 1951. When the producers had difficulty in securing a distributor, Howco Productions Inc. bought the film in the spring of 1952 and assigned Ron Ormond to direct additional footage for the film.\n\nTandra Quinn recalled Ormond took over several months after Tevos completed filming and shot additional sequences including new ones with Jackie Coogan and her character being shot which was not in the original version.\n\nKatherine Victor remembered that she was hired by Ormond as the original film was not able to be picked up for distribution with her desert sequences added to the film.\n\nOne of the dwarfs of the film was Angelo Rossitto, whose film career had started in the 1920s. He was a veteran of Poverty Row horror films.\n\nDirector Herbert Tevos, born Herbert Schoellenbach, reportedly claimed to have had a film career in his native Germany, and to have directed films starring Marlene Dietrich and Erich von Stroheim. He even claimed credit for supposedly directing the film \"The Blue Angel\" (1930). Actually \"Mesa\" was his only known film credit.\n\nThe music of the film was composed by Hoyt Curtin. It makes use of a flamenco guitar and a piano, with their sounds combined in what seems to be a free jazz composition. It was later reused in the film \"Jail Bait\" (1954). The narrator Lyle Talbot also appeared in various films by Ed Wood, such as \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\" (1959). One of the various spider-women of Aranya is played by Dolores Fuller, who also appeared in Wood's films. The film also features the film debut of Katherine Victor, as the spider-woman who first drove Masterson to the desert. She would become better known as a regular in Jerry Warren films.\n\nWhile Tarantella is one of the key characters of the film, this was a silent part for actress Tandra Quinn. She also had a silent part in \"The Neanderthal Man\" (1953), playing a deaf-mute. Decades later, Quinn recalled that she never received \"a decent speaking part\" in a film. She reportedly chose her stage name by modifying one suggested by Tevos. He had suggested the stage name Tandra Nova. She agreed to the first name \"Tandra\", but found the last name unsuitable and reminiscent of Lou Nova. She instead chose the last name \"Quinn\" in honor of dancer Joan Quinn.\n\n\"Mesa\" was one of six 1950s films to make use of wire-controlled giant spiders. The others were \"Cat-Women of the Moon\" (1953), \"Tarantula\" (1955), \"World Without End\" (1956), \"Queen of Outer Space\" (1958), and \"Missile to the Moon\" (1958). \"Mesa\" and \"Cat-Women\" made use of similar giant spider props. However the spider used in \"Mesa\" was limited in movement, a single jump being its greatest action feat. The one in \"Cat-Women\" was created by Wah Chang and was more advanced. Both \"Mesa\" and \"Missile to the Moon\" were partially filmed in the Red Rock Canyon State Park.\n\nThe film was distributed in the United States by Howco Productions Inc. and reissued in 1956 through Ron Ormond Enterprises.\n\nThe movie is criticized for the low quality acting, most notably that of Coogan, and Harmon Stevens, who plays Dr. Masterson. The plot is far from straightforward. The loud and repetitive musical score by Hoyt S. Curtin, melding flamenco guitar and piano, is seen as maddening or oppositely \"very able, a sustained inspiration\" The music used in the movie was also used by Ed Wood in his movie \"Jail Bait\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853571", "title": "Clara Lemlich", "text": "Clara Lemlich\n\nClara Lemlich Shavelson (March 28, 1886 – July 12, 1982) was a leader of the Uprising of 20,000, the massive strike of shirtwaist workers in New York's garment industry in 1909, where she spoke in Yiddish and called for action. Later blacklisted from the industry for her labor union work, she became a member of the Communist Party USA and a consumer activist. In her last years as a nursing home resident she helped to organize the staff.\n\nLemlich was born March 28, 1886, in the Ukrainian city of Gorodok, to a Jewish family. Raised in a predominantly Yiddish-speaking village, young Lemlich learned to read Russian over her parents' objections, sewing buttonholes and writing letters for illiterate neighbors to raise money for her books. After a neighbor introduced her to revolutionary literature, Lemlich became a committed socialist. She immigrated to the United States with her family in 1903, following a pogrom in Kishinev.\n\nLemlich was able to find a job in the garment industry upon her arrival in New York. Conditions there had become even worse since the turn of the century, as the new industrial sewing machine allowed employers to demand twice as much production from their employees, who often had to supply their own machines and carry them to and from work. Lemlich, along with many of her co-workers, rebelled against the long hours, low pay, lack of opportunities for advancement, and humiliating treatment from supervisors. Lemlich became involved in the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union and was elected to the executive board of Local 25 of the ILGWU.\n\nLemlich quickly made a name for herself among her fellow workers, leading several strikes of shirtwaist makers and challenging the mostly male leadership of the union to organize women garment workers. She combined boldness with a good deal of charm (she was known for her fine singing voice) and personal bravery (she returned to the picket line in 1909 after having several ribs broken when gangsters hired by the employers attacked the picketers).\n\nLemlich came to the attention of the outside world at the mass meeting held at Cooper Union on November 22, 1909 to rally support for the striking shirtwaist workers at the Triangle Shirtwaist Company and Leiserson Company. For two hours the leading figures of the American labor movement and socialist leaders of the Lower East Side spoke in general terms about the need for solidarity and preparedness. Desiring a call to action, not just words, Lemlich demanded the opportunity to speak. Lifted onto the platform, she said:\n\nThe crowd responded enthusiastically and, after taking a modified version of the ancient Jewish oath of fidelity to Israel — \"If I turn traitor to the cause I now pledge, may this hand wither from the arm I now raise\" — voted for a general strike. Approximately 20,000 out of the 32,000 workers in the shirtwaist trade walked out in the next two days; this would become known as the Uprising of the 20,000. Lemlich took a leading role in bringing workers out, speaking at rallies until she lost her voice. The strike lasted until February 10, 1910, producing union contracts at almost every shop, but not at Triangle Shirtwaist.\n\nTriangle Shirtwaist became a synonym for \"sweatshop\" during the following year. On March 25, 1911, nearly 150 garment workers died as a result of a fire that consumed the factory. Workers were either burned to death or died jumping to escape the flames. Lemlich searched through the armory where the dead had been taken to search for a missing cousin; a newspaper reporter described her as convulsed by hysterical laughter and tears when she did not find her.\n\nBlacklisted from the industry and at odds with the conservative leadership of the ILGWU, Lemlich devoted herself to the campaign for women's suffrage. Like her colleagues Rose Schneiderman and Pauline Newman, Lemlich portrayed women's suffrage as necessary for the improvement of working women's lives, both inside and outside the workplace.\n\nThe manufacturer has a vote; the bosses have votes; the foremen have votes, the inspectors have votes. The working girl has no vote. When she asks to have a building in which she must work made clean and safe, the officials do not have to listen. When she asks not to work such long hours, they do not have to listen. . . . [U]ntil the men in the Legislature at Albany represent her as well as the bosses and the foremen, she will not get justice; she will not get fair conditions. That is why the working woman now says that she must have the vote.\n\nLemlich, like Newman and Schneiderman, also had strong personal and political differences with the upper and middle class women who led the suffrage movement. Mary Beard fired Lemlich, for reasons that are not entirely clear, less than a year after hiring her to campaign for suffrage in 1911.\n\nLemlich continued her suffrage activities, founding the Wage Earner’s Suffrage League, a working class alternative to middle class suffrage organizations, along with Schneiderman, Leonora O'Reilly, and two other women garment workers. Yet while the League admitted only working class women to membership, it was dependent on non-working class women for support and, in deference to its supporters' wishes, affiliated with the National American Woman Suffrage Association — the organization to which it saw itself as an alternative — rather than with the Socialist Party Women's Committee.\n\nThe Wage Earner’s Suffrage League passed out of existence, however, after organizing a successful rally at Cooper Union at which Lemlich, Schneiderman, and others spoke. Lemlich continued her suffrage activities for the Women's Trade Union League, while Schneiderman, who quit the WTUL at that time, went to work for the ILGWU before returning to the WTUL several years later. Other activists, such as Pauline Newman, worked under the aegis of the Socialist Party, which supported suffrage even though many in the leadership considered it a distraction from the more urgent business of class struggle.\n\nLemlich married Joe Shavelson in 1913. She also was the mother of Irving Charles Velson, Martha Shavelson Schaffer, and Rita Shavelson Margules. Moving to the solidly working-class neighborhood of East New York, then later to Brighton Beach, she did not return to work, other than on an occasional part-time basis, for the next thirty years. Instead she devoted herself to raising a family and organizing housewives.\n\nOthers had organized in this area before Lemlich: Jewish housewives in New York had boycotted kosher butchers to protest high prices in the first decade of the twentieth century and the Brooklyn Tenants Union led rent strikes and fought evictions. After joining the Communist Party, which largely disdained the notion of consumer organizing, Lemlich and Kate Gitlow, mother of Benjamin Gitlow, attempted to organize a union of housewives that would address not only consumers' issues, but housing and education as well. The United Council of Working Class Housewives also raised money and organized relief for strikers in Passaic, New Jersey during the bitter 1926 strike.\n\nIn 1929, after the Communist Party created a Women's Commission, Lemlich launched the United Council of Working Class Women, which eventually had nearly fifty branches in New York City, as well as affiliates in Philadelphia, Seattle, Chicago, Los Angeles, San Francisco, and Detroit. The organization recruited among CP members, but did not identify the Council with the CP or press non-Party members of the Council to join the party as well.\n\nThe UCWCW led a widespread boycott of butcher shops to protest high meat prices in 1935, using the militant tactics of flying squadrons of picketers that shut down more than 4,000 butcher shops in New York City. The strike became nationwide and the UCWCW won support outside the Jewish and African-American communities to which it had been limited in New York.\n\nThe UCWCW renamed itself the Progressive Women's Councils the following years as part of the Popular Front politics of the day. The Party withdrew support for the councils and discontinued publications aimed at women, however, in 1938. Lemlich continued to be active in the PWC, however, and was a local leader in it after it affiliated with the International Worker's Order in the 1940s. The Councils organized even broader boycotts to protest high prices in 1948 and 1951, before accusations of Communist Party dominance destroyed it in the early 1950s. The IWO was ordered dissolved by the state of New York in 1952.\n\nLemlich continued her activities as part of the Emma Lazarus Federation of Jewish Women's Clubs, which raised funds for Red Mogen David, protesting nuclear weapons, campaigned for ratification of the United Nations' Convention on Genocide, and against the War in Vietnam, and forging alliances with Sojourners for Truth, an African-American women's civil rights organization.\n\nLemlich was also active in Unemployed Councils activities and in founding the Emma Lazarus Council, which supported tenant rights. The Emma Lazarus Council declared in 1931 that no one would be evicted in Brighton Beach for inability to pay rent, then backed that up by rallying supporters to prevent evictions and returning tenants' furniture to their apartments in those cases in which authorities attempted to effect eviction.\n\nLemlich remained an unwavering member of the Communist Party, denouncing the trial and execution of the Rosenbergs. Her passport was revoked after a trip to the Soviet Union in 1951. She retired from garment work in 1954, then fought a long battle with the ILGWU to obtain a pension. After the death of her second husband she moved to California to be near her children and in-laws in the 1960s, she entered the Jewish Home for the Aged in Los Angeles. As a resident she persuaded the management to join in the United Farm Workers boycotts of grapes and lettuce, then prodded the workers there to organize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853574", "title": "High place", "text": "High place\n\n\"High place\", or \"high places\", (Hebrew במה \"bamah\" and plural במות \"bamot\" or \"bamoth\") in a biblical context always means \"place(s) of worship\". This rendering has etymological justification, as appears from the poetical use of the plural in such expressions as to ride, or stalk, or stand on the \"high places\" of the earth, the sea, the clouds, and from the corresponding usage in Assyrian; but it has been surmised that a semantic shift occurred because the places of worship were originally upon hilltops, or because the \"bamah\" was an artificial platform or mound, perhaps imitating the natural eminence which was the oldest holy place, but neither view is historically demonstrable.\n\nThe development of the religious significance of the word took place probably not in Israel but among the Canaanites, from whom the Israelites, in taking possession of the holy places of the land, also adopted the name. Many towns and villages in ancient Israel had their own places of sacrifice, commonly called \"bamot\". It has been suggested that the plural of the word referred to places of sacred prostitution and of pagan worship.\n\nFrom the Hebrew Bible and from existing remains a good idea may be formed of the appearance of such a place of worship. It was often on the hill above the town, as at Ramah (); there was a stele (\"matzevah\"), the seat of the deity, and a wooden post or pole (\"asherah\", named after the goddess Asherah), which marked the place as sacred and was itself an object of worship; there was a stone altar, often of considerable size and hewn out of the solid rock or built of unhewn stones (; see altar), on which offerings were burnt (\"mizbeh\", lit. \"slaughter place\"); a cistern for water, and perhaps low stone tables for dressing the victims; sometimes also a hall (\"lishkah\") for the sacrificial feasts.\n\nAround these places the religion of the ancient Israelite centred; at festival seasons, or to make or fulfil a vow, he might journey to more famous sanctuaries at a distance from his home, but ordinarily offerings were made at the bamah of his own town. The building of YHWH's singular Temple at Jerusalem, which (under the Law of Moses) had an exclusive right to offer sacrifices (), did not stop the bamot sacrifices until Kings Hezekiah and Josiah proscribed them.\n\nThe prophets of the 8th century BC assail the popular religion as corrupt and licentious, and as fostering the monstrous delusion that immoral men can buy the favour of God by worship; but they make no difference in this respect between the high places of Israel and the temple in Jerusalem (cf. sqq.; ; Isaiah to sqq.). Hosea stigmatizes the whole cultus as pure heathenism—Canaanite Baal-worship adopted by apostate Israel. The fundamental law in prohibits sacrifice at every place except the temple in Jerusalem; in accordance with this law Josiah, in 621 BC, destroyed and desecrated the altars (\"bmoth\") throughout his kingdom (where Yahweh had been worshipped since times before a permanent singular Temple at Jerusalem was erected) and forcibly removed their priests to Jerusalem, where they occupied an inferior rank in the temple ministry.\n\nIn the prophets of the 7th and 6th centuries BC, the word \"bamot\" connotes \"seat of heathenish or idolatrous worship\"; and the historians of the period apply the term in this opprobrious sense not only to places sacred to other gods but to the old holy places of Yahweh in the cities and villages of Judah, which, in their view, had been illegitimate since the building of Solomon's temple, and therefore not really seats of the worship of Yahweh; even the most pious kings of Judah are censured in the Books of Kings for tolerating their existence. The reaction that followed the death of Josiah (608 BC) restored the old altars of Yahweh; they survived the destruction of the temple in 586 BC, and it is probable that after its restoration (520–516 BC) they only slowly disappeared, in consequence partly of the natural predominance of Jerusalem in the little territory of Judaea, partly of the gradual establishment of the supremacy of the written law over custom and tradition in the Persian period.\n\nThe rule of the Law of Moses that sacrifice can be offered to Yahweh only at the Temple in Jerusalem was never fully established in fact. The Jewish military colonists in Elephantine in the 5th century BC had their altar of Yahweh beside the highway; the Jews in Egypt in the Ptolemaic period had, besides many local sanctuaries, one greater temple at Leontopolis, with a priesthood whose claim to \"valid orders\" was much better than that of the High Priests in Jerusalem, and the legitimacy of whose worship is admitted even by the Palestinian rabbis.\n\nIn Jewish synagogues, the \"High Place\" (\"bimah\") is the elevated platform from which the Torah is read. It traditionally had its origin from the platform erected in the Temple in Jerusalem at which the king would read the Torah during the Hakhel ceremony every seven years at the Feast of Tabernacles (). The \"bimah\" is located in the center of Orthodox synagogues, and in the front of Reform synagogues.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church and Eastern Catholic Churches the \"High Place\" is the name used for the location of the cathedra (episcopal throne), set in the center of the apse of a church's sanctuary, behind the Holy Table (altar). In larger churches there may be a literal elevation, but there is often not room for this in smaller churches. The cathedra is surrounded on both sides by the \"synthronos\", a set of other seats or benches for the use of the priests. Every Orthodox church and Eastern Catholic church has such a High Place even if it is not a cathedral.\n\nThe term \"High Place\" also refers to the central portion of the Holy Table, where the antimension and Gospel Book are normally kept. The only other objects that are permitted to occupy this place on the altar are the chalice and discos (paten) for the celebration of the Divine Liturgy. On the various Feasts of the Cross, a tray covered by an aër (liturgical veil) holding a Cross and branches of basil is placed on the High Place of the Holy Table until it is taken in procession to the center of the nave. On Good Friday, the Epitaphion is set on the Holy Table until it is taken to the \"tomb\" in the center of the nave for veneration by the faithful. During the Paschal Vigil, this Epitaphion is taken through the Holy Doors and placed again on the High Place of the Holy Table, where it will remain until the Ascension.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853578", "title": "USS Allen M. Sumner", "text": "USS Allen M. Sumner\n\nUSS \"Allen M. Sumner\" (DD-692), was the lead ship of her class of destroyers. The ship was named for Allen Melancthon Sumner, a United States Marine Corps captain, who was killed in action during World War I.\n\n\"Allen M. Sumner\" was laid down on 7 July 1943 at Kearny, New Jersey, by the Federal Shipbuilding and Drydock Company; launched on 15 December 1943; sponsored by Mrs. Allen M. Sumner, Captain Sumner's widow; and commissioned at the New York Navy Yard on 26 January 1944.\n\nThe destroyer was fitted out at the New York Navy Yard until 3 March when she got underway for shakedown training in the waters around Bermuda. \"Allen M. Sumner\" returned to New York on 8 April and commenced post-shakedown availability. Repairs were completed on 3 May, and the warship stood out of New York bound for Norfolk, Virginia. She arrived there the following day and began two months of duty as a training platform for destroyer nucleus crews. The warship headed north on 5 July and arrived back at New York the next day. Following a five-week availability at the navy yard there, \"Allen M. Sumner\" put to sea on 12 August, bound ultimately for the Pacific. Along the way, she conducted antisubmarine warfare and antiair warfare exercises, stopped briefly at Norfolk, and transited the Panama Canal on 29 August. The destroyer stayed overnight at San Diego on 7 and 8 September before continuing on to Hawaii. She arrived at Pearl Harbor on 14 September and began five weeks of exercises in the Hawaiian operating area.\n\nHer stay in Hawaii lasted until 23 October when she steamed out of Pearl Harbor in company with the battleship , bound for duty in the western Pacific with the Fast Carrier Task Force. Steaming via Eniwetok, the destroyer entered Ulithi lagoon on 5 November. \"Allen M. Sumner\" remained at Ulithi until 19 November at which time she departed the atoll to join Task Group (TG) 38.4 at sea. After rendezvousing with the carriers, she accompanied them to waters near Yap Island whence the aircraft carriers launched air strikes on 22 November before reentering Ulithi that same day. The destroyer remained there for 5 days and then returned to sea, bound for newly invaded Leyte in the Philippines. She arrived in San Pedro Bay on 29 November and began patrolling Leyte Gulf. That duty—punctuated intermittently by air alerts—lasted until the evening of 2 December when \"Allen M. Sumner\" set course for Ormoc Bay in company with the destroyers and .\n\nReports from American aircraft earlier that day had indicated that an enemy reinforcement convoy was entering the bay that night, and the three warships were sent to destroy it. Just after 2300 that night, the destroyers suffered the first of many air attacks when a Mitsubishi Ki-46 \"Dinah\" — a fast, twin-engine, reconnaissance plane — dropped a bomb which near-missed \"Allen M. Sumner\" about from the ship's starboard bow, pierced her hull with fragments, and started a fire on board. Bomb fragments also wounded one officer and 12 men.\n\nAir attacks continued; but, just after midnight, the three destroyers made surface radar contact on a pair of Japanese destroyers later identified as and . Less than 10 minutes into the battle, \"Kuwa\" succumbed to the combined fire of the two destroyers, and the wrecked and burning mass began to sink. \"Take\", however, evened the score just as \"Allen M. Sumner\" and \"Cooper\" joined \"Moale\" in firing on the remaining Japanese warship. One of her torpedoes slammed into \"Cooper\" amidships, broke that American destroyer's back, and sank her almost immediately. Less than half of \"Cooper\"s crew managed to get off the ship. Most of those were later rescued—but by PBY Catalinas rather than by \"Cooper\"s division mates who were still being subjected to heavy shore battery fire and air raids. Any attempt at rescue by \"Allen M. Sumner\" and \"Moale\" would have made them virtually stationary targets. At about 0145 on the 3rd, the two remaining American warships began retirement from Ormoc Bay and set a course for San Pedro Bay where they arrived later that day.\n\n\"Allen M. Sumner\" spent the next nine days in San Pedro Bay undergoing upkeep and repairing the minor damage that she had suffered in the action at Ormoc Bay. Though the area was subjected to intermittent air raids throughout that period, \"Allen M. Sumner\" recorded only one, long-range—in excess of —approach by an enemy aircraft on 6 December. On 12 December, she departed San Pedro Bay and joined the screen of TG 78.3, bound for the landings on Mindoro Island. That task group constituted Rear Admiral Arthur D. Struble's Mindoro Attack Group. Although the group came under air attack during the transit, \"Allen M. Sumner\" escaped damage. On 15 December, she moved in with the close covering group to participate in the preinvasion shore bombardment, and the subsequent landings went forward against negligible opposition. Some enemy aircraft attempted to attack the invasion force, and \"Allen M. Sumner\" joined \"Moale\" and in splashing an enemy light bomber. On the following day, the destroyer departed Mindoro to return to Leyte where she arrived on 18 December. Between 26 and 29 December, the warship escorted a resupply echelon to Mindoro and back to San Pedro Bay.\n\nOn 2 January 1945, the destroyer stood out of San Pedro Bay, bound for the invasion of Luzon at Lingayen Gulf in the screen for the cruisers and battleships of Vice Admiral Jesse B. Oldendorf's Bombardment and Fire Support Group (TG 77.2). Early on 6 January, \"Allen M. Sumner\" moved into Lingayen Gulf to support minesweeping operations. Around noon, her unit came under air attack by \"kamikazes\". The first plane retreated in the face of a heavy antiaircraft barrage while the second attacker hovered just out of range as a decoy to mask a run in by a third suicider. The latter plane dove on \"Allen M. Sumner\" strafing as he came. He swooped in out of the sun on the destroyer's port bow and crashed into her near the after stack and after torpedo mount. The warship lost 14 men killed and 19 injured. Extensive damage required her to retire from the gulf and join the heavy units of TG 77.2. Nevertheless, \"Allen M. Sumner\" remained in action with that unit and supported the Lingayen operation until 14 January.\n\nOn that day, she began a long and somewhat circuitous voyage back to the United States for repairs. She arrived at Manus in the Admiralties on 18 January and remained there for nine days. She got underway again on 27 January in company with the escort carrier and, after stopping at Majuro en route, arrived in Pearl Harbor on 6 February. She departed Oahu the next day and arrived at Hunters Point, California, on 13 February to begin repairs. Her renewal work was completed on 10 April and, four days later, she began duty training prospective destroyer crews along the west coast. Just over three months later, on 17 July, she was relieved of training duty and departed San Francisco to return to the western Pacific. The destroyer arrived at Oahu on the 23rd and began three weeks of training operations out of Pearl Harbor.\n\nOn 12 August, \"Allen M. Summer\" stood out of Hawaii to return to the war zone. However, when she was two days out, the Japanese capitulated. Nevertheless, the warship continued her voyage west. Following a two-day stop at Eniwetok, she got underway again on 21 August and, six-days later, rendezvoused with TG 38.3 in Japanese waters. After some three weeks of postwar patrols, first with TG 38.3 and later with TG 38.1, the destroyer put into Tokyo Bay on 16 September. She remained there only six days before getting underway for the Marianas on 22 August. The ship reached Saipan three days later but soon resumed her voyage back to the United States arriving on the west coast in October and assuming duty as a training platform for prospective destroyer crews.\n\nThese operations continued until May 1946 when the destroyer departed the west coast, bound for the Central Pacific to support Operation Crossroads, the atomic bomb tests conducted at Bikini Atoll in the Marshall Islands. At the conclusion of that assignment late that summer, she returned to her former west coast duty. On 23 February 1947, \"Allen M. Sumner\" began an extended cruise to the Far East which included visits to Australia, the Marianas, the Philippines, China, and Japan before her return to the west coast for an overhaul and subsequent local operations.\n\nThat duty continued until early in 1949 at which time the ship was reassigned to the Atlantic Fleet. She transited the Panama Canal in mid-April and arrived in Hampton Roads, Virginia, on 20 April. Between the spring of 1949 and the spring of 1953, the destroyer conducted normal peacetime operations out of Norfolk. That routine was broken only by a tour of duty in the Mediterranean Sea with the 6th Fleet between November 1950 and March 1951. Otherwise, she cruised along the eastern seaboard and in the West Indies conducting training—particularly in antisubmarine warfare.\n\nOn 24 April 1953, the destroyer stood out of Norfolk, bound for her only assignment in the war zone during the Korean War. Steaming by way of the Mediterranean Sea, the Suez Canal, and Indian Ocean, \"Allen M. Sumner\" arrived in Yokosuka, Japan, early in June. After 10 days in port, she joined Task Force (TF) 77 in the Sea of Japan and began two months of duty as a plane guard and antisubmarine screening ship for the fast carriers while they sent their aircraft against targets in North Korea. While she was assigned those tasks, the armistice of 27 July ended the Korean War. Following a tour of duty with TF 95 patrolling the southern coast of Korea and a brief stop at Yokosuka, the warship headed back to the United States via the Pacific, the west coast, and the Panama Canal. She arrived back in Norfolk on 27 October.\n\nOver the next eight years, \"Allen M. Sumner\" alternated east coast and West Indies operations with seven deployments to European waters. During the first two—conducted in the fall of 1954 and the summer of 1955, respectively—she visited northern European waters to participate in exercises with units of other NATO navies. The third European deployment—to the Mediterranean—came in July 1956. During that four-month assignment, the Suez crisis erupted, and \"Allen M. Sumner\" supported the evacuation of American citizens from Egypt at Alexandria. On the fourth deployment of the period, she returned to northern European waters in September and October 1957. In February 1958, she embarked upon another deployment to the Mediterranean that lasted until July. After a period of normal east coast operations, the destroyer once again headed toward the \"middle sea\" in February 1958. That tour of duty differed from those preceding in that \"Allen M. Sumner\" was assigned to independent duty in the Persian Gulf and in the western portion of the Indian Ocean. She returned to the United States on 30 August and began a year of normal operations in the western Atlantic. In September 1960, the warship voyaged to the Mediterranean once more and again served on independent duty in the Persian Gulf and in the western Indian Ocean. She returned to the United States on 19 April 1961 and, on 17 May, began a fleet rehabilitation and modernization overhaul during which her antisubmarine warfare capabilities were improved and updated.\n\n\"Allen M. Sumner\" completed her overhaul on 2 January 1962 and resumed her schedule of east coast operations alternated with Mediterranean cruises. Between March and September 1962, she served with the 6th Fleet. Soon after her return to American waters, President John F. Kennedy declared a \"quarantine\" of Cuba in response to the siting of offensive Soviet missiles on that island. \"Allen M. Sumner\" was one of the first warships to take up station off Cuba in October 1962. At the successful conclusion of that operation, she resumed normal duty out of Mayport, Florida. That employment—including frequent duty as school ship for the Fleet Sonar School—continued through 1963 and into 1964. In June and July 1964, the destroyer made a brief deployment to the Mediterranean for a midshipman cruise. Upon her return to the western hemisphere, she resumed normal duty out of Mayport. In the spring of 1965, political unrest in the Dominican Republic took her to the waters around that troubled island. Upon concluding that assignment, the destroyer returned to Mayport and resumed operations out of that port. In October, she embarked upon another deployment in the Mediterranean. After a routine tour of duty with the 6th Fleet in the \"middle sea,\" \"Allen M. Sumner\" returned to Mayport on 8 March 1966 and began 11 months of operations out of her home port which included duty as a support ship for the Gemini 10 space shot in July.\n\nOn 7 February 1967, the destroyer departed Mayport on her way to her first and only deployment to the Vietnam war zone. Steaming via the Panama Canal and Hawaii, she arrived in Yokosuka, Japan, on 14 March. Four days later, she got underway for the coast of Vietnam. On her first tour in the Gulf of Tonkin, \"Allen M. Sumner\" served as \"shotgun\" (screening ship) for while the nuclear-powered guided missile cruiser served on positive identification radar advisory zone duty in the gulf. She was relieved of that assignment on 5 April to participate in Operation Seadragon, the interdiction of communist waterborne logistics operations. That assignment lasted until 11 April, when she joined the screen of the aircraft carrier for a voyage to Sasebo, Japan. She remained at Sasebo from 15 to 22 April before heading back to the Gulf of Tonkin again in company with \"Hancock\". Upon her return to Vietnamese waters, \"Allen M. Sumner\" moved inshore with the Australian cruiser to resume \"Sea-dragon\" duty and, later, to provide shore bombardment support for marines engaged in Operation Beau Charger, a combined waterborne and airborne amphibious assault conducted near the demilitarized zone late in May.\n\nAt the end of May, she rejoined the fast carriers on Yankee Station and screened them until 10 June when she resumed \"Seadragon\" duty. Her work closer to the Vietnam coast lasted for 12 days. On 22 June, she departed Vietnamese waters and set a course for Kaohsiung, Taiwan, where she visited from 26 June to 2 July. Departing Kaohsiung on the latter day, \"Allen M. Sumner\" called at Hong Kong from 7 to 9 July. On 11 July, she returned to the coast of Vietnam and began a nine-day gunfire support mission. Leaving Vietnamese waters on 20 July, the destroyer made a six-day stop at Subic Bay in the Philippines from 22 to 28 July before returning to the gunline from 30 July to 1 August. She then began her voyage back to the United States; stopped at Yokosuka, Hawaii, and Acapulco, in Mexico; transited the Panama Canal on 7 September, and reached Mayport on 10 September.\n\nThe destroyer resumed normal operations out of Mayport in October. Throughout 1968, she cruised the waters of the West Indies, frequently providing support for the encircled naval base at Guantanamo Bay, Cuba. Similar duty carried her through the first four months of 1969. In May, she voyaged to England and northern European waters to participate in a NATO review celebrating the 20th anniversary of the alliance. On 22 May, she headed for the Mediterranean and a normal tour of duty with the 6th Fleet. She concluded that assignment at Mayport on 10 October. Following 10 months of normal operations put of Mayport, \"Allen M. Sumner\" embarked upon the final Mediterranean deployment of her career on 27 August 1970. The destroyer returned to Mayport on 28 February 1971 and briefly resumed normal duty out of her home port. On 1 July 1971, she was reassigned to duty as a Naval Reserve training ship. In mid-August, she moved to Baltimore, Maryland, where she began her Naval Reserve training duties. That employment remained her assignment until 15 August 1973 at which time \"Allen M. Sumner\" was decommissioned at Philadelphia. On 16 October 1974, she was sold to the Union Minerals & Alloy Corp. for scrapping.\n\n\"Allen M. Sumner\" earned two battle stars during World War II, one during the Korean War, and two during the Vietnam War.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853580", "title": "Johnny Swinger", "text": "Johnny Swinger\n\nJoseph Dorgan (born July 4, 1975) is an American professional wrestler currently under contract to Impact Wrestling best known by the ring name Johnny Swinger. Dorgan is also known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling, Extreme Championship Wrestling under the Johnny Swinger name (sometimes shortened to simply Swinger) and with World Wrestling Entertainment as Johnny Parisi.\n\nAfter training in Toronto, Ontario, Dorgan started wrestling on the independent circuit in 1993 as \"Johnny Paradise\". After he discovered that another wrestler was already using that name, he renamed himself \"Johnny Hollywood Swinger\" and began to make a name for himself as a villain in Scott D'Amore's \"Syndicate\" faction in Border City Wrestling. In 1995, he worked for World Wrestling Federation going by his real name, Joe Dorgan, following in the footsteps of his uncle, Tony Parisi, who worked for the WWWF under Vince McMahon, Sr. Johnny Swinger appeared on WWFs flagship program, \"WWF RAW\", facing Shane Douglas in a nationally televised broadcast in September of that year.\n\nSwinger began working for World Championship Wrestling (WCW) in late 1996, shortening his ring name to \"Johnny Swinger.\" He was utilized primarily on syndication & TBS programs, appearing on \"WCW Saturday Night\" and \"WCW World Wide\". Swinger also made appearances on both of the company's flagship programs Monday Nitro (on TNT) and THUNDER (on TBS). His broadcast appearances include the highest rated \"Monday Nitro\" in July 1998, losing to Chavo Guerrero, Jr. in front of a sold-out Georgia Dome; this same night, Goldberg defeated Hollywood Hogan for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship. Swinger remained in WCW for three years until joining Extreme Championship Wrestling.\n\nSwinger joined ECW in 2000. He was placed in a tag team with Simon Diamond by booker Paul Heyman in May 2000, and shortened his name to \"Swinger.\" He remained with ECW until it folded in April 2001.\n\nSwinger returned to WCW for one week for the Cruiserweight Tag Team Tournament. On the February 26, 2001 edition of \"Nitro\" where he and Jason Lee were defeated by Billy Kidman and Rey Mysterio, Jr.. He also wrestled on the February 28, 2001 edition of \"WCW Thunder\" where Swinger (accompanied by Jason Lee) lost to Shane Helms. Shortly after, WCW was purchased by the WWF and its programming ceased.\n\nSwinger wrestled on the independent circuit from 2001 to 2003.\n\nSwinger had a brief stint in the earlier part of 2003 in the World Wrestling All-Stars promotion. The promotion featured primarily talents known from other wrestling promotions, boasting talents such as Bret Hart, Sting, Lex Luger, Jeff Jarrett, and others. Swingers highest profile match in the promotion came on May 23, 2003, when he faced Chris Sabin, Frankie Kazarian, and Jerry Lynn in an inter-promotional match for the WWA International Cruiserweight and NWA-TNA X-Division Championships. Swinger also appeared and was victorious on World Wrestling All Stars International card \"Retribution\" in Glasgow Scotland, teaming with Buff \"The Stuff\" Bagwell to defeat Norman Smiley and Malice.\n\nOn July 9, 2003, Simon Diamond and Swinger debuted as a team in Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA). They feuded with America's Most Wanted (Chris Harris and James Storm) for some time before winning the NWA World Tag Team Championships. The team split on February 18, 2004 when Swinger turned into a villain by pledging allegiance to Jeff Jarrett, and feuded with one another. Swinger eventually formed a stable known as \"The New York Connection\" with Glenn Gilbertti, Vito and Trinity.\n\nDorgan signed a developmental deal with World Wrestling Entertainment (WWE) in 2005, and began training at Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW) in May 2005. He made his WWE debut on the July 31, 2005 episode of \"Sunday Night Heat\" as \"Johnny Parisi\" winning his debut match for the company. He was a main stay on \"Heat\". His ring name was derived from his great uncle Tony Parisi.\n\nIn September 2005 Parisi was sent to Deep South Wrestling wrestling there for two months while also wrestling on \"Sunday Night Heat\", until being taken off of television in November due to an injury. He came back in December 2005 but was sent back to DSW. He worked two more \"Heat\" matches for WWE in February, 2006, losing competitively to Chavo Guerrero and Kane. He was released on June 29, 2006.\n\nAfter being released from the WWE he went back to wrestling on the independent circuit mainly wrestling for Great Championship Wrestling (GCW). He has great title success there winning the GCW Heavyweight title on 2 occasions and the GCW Tag Titles twice, once with Glenn Gilberti and once with Bull Buchanan. Raven came to GCW to help Swinger with his feud against Michaels Inc. in December 2006. After winning the GCW title from Chris Stevens, Swinger turned on Raven and joined Michaels Inc. In January 2007, Swinger began challenging TNA wrestlers to try to come to challenge him in GCW. In response to this, TNA Director of Authority, Jim Cornette came to a GCW show to confront Swinger. Swinger and Bull Buchanan were defeated by Raven and David Young on January 31. Afterwards, David Young challenged Swinger for the GCW title. He later lost the title to Scotty Beach in a steel cage match via submission. On September 15, he defeated Scotty Beach for the GCW title once again. On September 29 he faced Bull Buchanan in a losing effort within a steel cage at the fourth-annual Fred Ward Memorial Show.\n\nHe returned to WWE to face Ron Simmons in a match on \"WWE Heat\", and on October 14, 2007, appeared for TNA's flagship pay-per-view, Bound for Glory, competing in a dark match with Joey Matthews against The Motor City Machineguns. Swinger recaptured the GCW Heavyweight Championship from Bull Buchanan on December 15, 2007, in a triple threat match that also included another TNA veteran, Sonny Siaki. Swinger spent most of 2008 fighting off challenges of various contenders for the GCW Championship, including Scotty 2 Hotty, Disco Inferno, and Bull Buchanan.\n\nOn July 29, 2010, it was confirmed that Swinger would take part in TNA's ECW reunion show Hardcore Justice on August 8. At the event Swinger, Simon Diamond and Kid Kash were defeated by Little Guido, Tony Luke and Tracy Smothers of The Full Blooded Italians in a six-man tag team match.\n\nIn 2011, Johnny Swinger continued success for Peachstate Wrestling Alliance in Georgia, feuding with Bill the Butcher, Ultimate Dragon, and others. Swinger continues to be one of the most popular babyfaces in the organization, despite spending the majority of his career as a heel. He is also currently training pro wrestlers and hopefuls with Rick Steiner at Hard Knocks Gym in Kennesaw, Georgia.\n\nIn 2017, Johnny Swinger started to co-host \"The Raven Effect\" podcast on Podcast One with fellow pro wrestler Raven; however after a couple of weeks, he was replaced by comedian and former WCW employee Busby Berkeley due to poor ratings.\n\nIn 2019 Swinger re-signed with TNA, now known as Impact Wrestling. He debuted on the September 27, 2019 episode of \"Impact Wrestling\". After a brief feud with Petey Williams establishing himself as a villainous character with the gimmick of an out-of-touch 80's independent wrestler, Swinger would proceed to get beaten by Ken Shamrock. After this match with Shamrock, Swinger would briefly reunite with former tag team partner Glenn Gilbertti. From there, Swinger would force himself into a temporary tag team informally known as the Mack and Pack Connection with Willie Mack on the February 19, 2020 episode of Impact. After Mack won the X Division Championship, Chris Bey would inform Swinger of Mack's disdain for Swinger, leading to a match between the two, which was won by Mack.\n\nDorgan is the nephew of legendary wrestler Tony Parisi, who died from a heart attack on August 19, 2000 at the age of 59.\n\nDorgan and his wife Meghan have two daughters and one son.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853581", "title": "Tom Colicchio", "text": "Tom Colicchio\n\nThomas Patrick Colicchio (; born August 15, 1962) is an American celebrity chef. He co-founded the Gramercy Tavern in New York City, and formerly served as a co-owner and as the executive chef. He is also the founder of Crafted Hospitality, which includes Craft (NYC and Los Angeles), Riverpark (NYC), Temple Court (NYC), Craftsteak (MGM Grand Las Vegas), Heritage Steak (Mirage Las Vegas) and Small Batch (Long Island) restaurants. Colicchio is the recipient of five James Beard Foundation Awards for cooking accomplishments.\n\nHe has been the head judge on every season of Bravo reality TV show \"Top Chef\" as well as \"Best New Restaurant\" which he also executive produces. Colicchio has also been a featured chef on \"Great Chefs\" shows.\n\nColicchio was born in Elizabeth, New Jersey, the son of Beverly (née Corvelli) and Thomas Colicchio. His father was a union organizer. He is of Italian descent on both sides. He graduated in 1980 from Elizabeth High School.\n\nIn the mid-1980s, Colicchio served as a sous-chef to Thomas Keller at Rakel.\n\nIn July 1994, Colicchio and his partner Danny Meyer opened the Gramercy Tavern in the Gramercy Park neighborhood of Manhattan. It was voted Most Popular Restaurant in New York City by the Zagat Survey in 2003 and 2005. He sold his interest in 2006 and is no longer affiliated with the restaurant. In spring 2001, he opened the first Craft restaurant one block south of Gramercy Tavern. A year later, he opened the first Craftsteak at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas. In 2003, he began the first 'wichcraft, his sandwich shop. In 2010, he opened Colicchio & Sons, and also Riverpark. Shortly after the September 11 attacks, Colicchio joined volunteers serving food to rescue workers at Ground Zero.\n\nColicchio won the 2010 Outstanding Chef award from the James Beard Foundation.\n\nColicchio has written three cookbooks. He, Jeff Bridges, and Raj Patel appeared in the documentary film \"A Place at the Table\" released in the U.S. on March 1, 2013. The movie was directed by his wife Lori Silverbush. He is also Executive Producer of \"A Place At The Table\".\n\nColicchio serves on the Food Council at City Harvest and the Culinary Council at Food Bank for New York City, two hunger-relief organisations.\n\nColicchio has been involved with \"Top Chef\" since its beginning in 2006, where he has served as head judge. \nHe is also the main consulting producer on Bravo's \"Top Chef\" spin-off series entitled \"Top Chef Masters\". He also won an Emmy Award in 2010 for Outstanding Reality-Competition Programming as an executive producer of \"Top Chef\", on which he appears.\n\nColicchio was the host of the reality series \"Best New Restaurant\" (an adaptation of the British reality show \"Ramsay's Best Restaurant\") in 2015.\n\nColicchio appeared in the fifth episode of the first season of HBO's \"Treme\" as himself along with fellow chefs Eric Ripert, David Chang and Wylie Dufresne. He made another cameo in Season 2 alongside Ripert. In 2011, he made cameos in the Season 23 premiere episode of \"The Simpsons\", \"The Falcon and the D'ohman,\" and \"The Smurfs\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHe has been married to filmmaker Lori Silverbush since 2001.\nHe has three sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853585", "title": "Community Action Party", "text": "Community Action Party\n\nThe Community Action Party was a minor political party in the United Kingdom, mostly active in Greater Manchester and Merseyside. It advocated free health care and education provision, a managed public transport infrastructure free to all at the point of use and a moratorium on the use of green belt land for building. It also supported a zero tolerance policy toward crime, and was against the introduction of identity cards and recent anti-terrorist legislation on civil liberties grounds.\n\nIn 2004 the party made a breakthrough in the Metropolitan Borough of Wigan, winning 18 seats, a gain of 13. The party later suffered a split, defections, and a loss of councillors in elections, reducing their number of councillors in Wigan Borough to five. They slowly expanded outside the Metropolitan Borough of Wigan into the Metropolitan Borough of St Helens, the City of Salford, where they gained a seat in 2008, and Warrington Borough.\n\nThe party was founded in March 2002 by Peter Franzen, a construction industry professional originally from Liverpool and now living in Golborne. The candidates stood on a platform of zero tolerance of crime and improved facilities for young people. Community Action councillors have a free vote on any issue as the party does not impose a whip, and includes former supporters of all three main parties.\n\nThe party put up candidates in four constituencies in the 2005 general election. It won no representation in the House of Commons, but had a number of councillors in the Metropolitan Borough of Wigan, Greater Manchester. In 2004 it made a large break through in Wigan Borough winning 18 seats, a gain of 13. They formed the official opposition group, the 'Democratic Alliance', with their ten councillors joining the Liberal Democrats' three in May 2007, but the grouping disbanded in July 2009. They supported the Green Party in the North-West region in the 2009 European elections.\n\nIn their first election, the CAP stood five candidates in Wigan Borough elections and returned two councillors, both in Makerfield constituency, Franzen unseating the deputy leader of the council.\n\nThe party stood 11 candidates in Wigan Borough, and took three seats from Labour, becoming the largest opposition party with five councillors.\n\nThe party stood 48 candidates in Wigan Borough, winning a total of 18 seats in Makerfield Constituency and becoming the official opposition on the council. After the election the Labour leader of the council Peter Smith argued that \"They are essentially a negative party, good at coming up with issues to campaign on, but not very good at finding solutions.\"\n\nFranzen stood in Makerfield against Ian McCartney, deputy chairman of the Labour Party, and the party stood three other candidates. Franzen received 2,769 votes (7.8%). Ian Franzen stood in Leigh, receiving 2,189 votes (6.0%). Former Labour council leader Mike Hughes received 573 votes in Warrington North (1.4%).\n\nThe CAP lost three seats in Makerfield to Labour.\n\nThe party held two seats and gained one from Community Performance First, but lost two seats to Labour. They stood four candidates in St. Helens, and two in Salford.\n\nThe party held two seats in Makerfield, but lost Peter Franzen's seat in Golbourne and Lowton West to Labour by 76 votes, and another seat to the Conservatives, resulting in their Democratic Alliance group losing its status as the official opposition group. The Labour Party made a complaint to the police about a YouTube video posted by one of the CAP councillors, Ed Houlton, about a former Labour mayor the day before the May elections, but no charges were brought.\n\nIn Salford's Irlam ward, their candidate Rick Houlton unseated Roger Jones, the Labour chairman of the Greater Manchester Passenger Transport Authority. The CAP opposed the congestion charge for Manchester that was proposed by Jones. Peel Holdings, a Manchester property company, commissioned a market research company to call people in Irlam ward about the congestion charge plan in November 2007. In January 2008, Peel met with the Liberal Democrats and Community Action Party to discuss how they could help them defeat councillors who were backing the congestion charge. A police investigation was launched over a possible breach of the Representation of the People Act 1983, but the Crown Prosecution Service said there was insufficient evidence. Houlton was criticised for his low council meeting attendance, which he said was due to working nights.\n\nThe Community Performance First Party was registered with the Electoral Commission in 2006 by three CAP councillors ahead of the local elections, who said that they would still stand as CAP candidates. They were expelled from the party in April 2006, less than a month before the local elections, and the CAP took legal action to prevent them using the CAP logo.\n\nAn Ashton in Makerfield councillor defected to the independent group in May 2007, followed by a Winstanley councillor in May 2008. A Leigh councillor defected to the Conservative Party in January 2009, which made the Conservatives the official opposition group on Wigan Metropolitan Borough Council. A further defection to the independent group occurred in May 2009.\n\nOn 7 February 2014 it was announced that Mike Moulding had reregistered the political party. This was after the founder and leader of the party, Peter Franzen, had lapsed the party the previous year. Since then the founder and the new leader have been in a battle over the rights of the name. The party was deregistered again in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "1853588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853588", "title": "Sibaviatrans", "text": "Sibaviatrans\n\nSibaviatrans (Joint Stock Company SIAT) was an airline based in Krasnoyarsk, Russia. It operated scheduled and charter passenger and cargo flights from various locations around Russia. It also provided helicopter services. It was a member of AiRUnion alliance.\n\nThe airline was established and started operations on 23 February 1995. It employed 557 staff.\n\nIt suspended operations at the end of September 2008 due to the AiRUnion collapse.\n\nSibaviatrans operated services to the following domestic scheduled destinations (at September 2008):\n\n\nThe Sibaviatrans fleet included the following aircraft (as of September 2008):\n\n"}
{"id": "1853589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853589", "title": "Liability insurance", "text": "Liability insurance\n\nLiability insurance (also called third-party insurance) is a part of the general insurance system of risk financing to protect the purchaser (the \"insured\") from the risks of liabilities imposed by lawsuits and similar claims and protects the insured if the purchaser is sued for claims that come within the coverage of the insurance policy. \n\nOriginally, individual companies that faced a common \"peril\" formed a group and created a self-help fund out of which to pay compensation should any member incur loss (in other words, a mutual insurance arrangement). The modern system relies on dedicated carriers, usually for-profit, to offer protection against specified perils in consideration of a premium. \n\nLiability insurance is designed to offer specific protection against third-party insurance claims, i.e., payment is not typically made to the insured, but rather to someone suffering loss who is not a party to the insurance contract. In general, damage caused intentionally as well as contractual liability are not covered under liability insurance policies. When a claim is made, the insurance carrier has the duty (and right) to defend the insured. \n\nThe legal costs of a defence normally do not affect policy limits unless the policy expressly states otherwise; this default rule is useful because defence costs tend to soar when cases go to trial. In many cases, the defense portion of the policy is actually more valuable than the insurance, as in complicated cases, the cost of defending the case might be more than the amount being claimed, especially in so-called \"nuisance\" cases where the insured must be defended even though no liability is ever brought to trial.\n\nCommercial liability is an important segment for the insurance industry. With premium income of USD 160 billion in 2013, it accounted for 10% of global non-life premiums of USD 1 550 billion, or 23% of the global commercial lines premiums. Liability insurance is far more prevalent in the advanced than emerging markets. The advanced markets accounted for 93% of global liability premiums in 2013, while their share of global non-life premiums was 79%.\n\nThe US is by far the largest market, with 51% of the global liability premiums written in 2013. This is due to the size of the US economy and high penetration of liability insurance (0.5% of GDP). In 2013, US businesses spent USD 84 billion on commercial liability covers, of which USD 50 billion was on general liability, including USD 12 billion for Errors and Omissions (E&O) and USD 5.4 billion for Directors and Officers (D&O). US businesses spent another USD 13 billion on the liability portion of commercial multi-peril policies, USD 9.5 billion for medical malpractice and USD 3 billion for product liability covers.\n\nThe UK is the world’s second largest market for liability insurance, with USD 9.9 billion of liability premiums in 2013. The largest sub-line of business is public and product liability. This is followed by professional indemnity and employers’ liability (cover for employment-related accidents and illnesses). There has been a significant shift in the sub-segments of UK liability insurance. In the last decade, the share of professional indemnity has increased from about 14% to 32%, highlighting the shift towards a more services-driven economy. Manufacturing, meanwhile, comprises a lower share of liability claims as accidents related to injuries and property damages have declined.\n\nIn continental Europe, the largest liability insurance markets are Germany, France, Italy and Spain. Together they made up almost USD 22 billion of global liability premiums in 2013. Typically governed by civil law systems, these markets rely on local conditions and historical experience to determine which liability policies and covers are available. Penetration ranges from 0.16% to 0.25%, which is low compared to the common law countries such as the US, the UK and Australia.\n\nJapan and Australia are the largest markets in the Asia Pacific region, with commercial liability premiums of USD 6.0 billion and USD 4.8 billion, respectively, in 2013. At 0.12% of GDP, the penetration of liability insurance in Japan is much lower than in other advanced economies. In Australia, penetration is much higher at 0.32% of GDP. This is due to the country’s English law derived legal framework, which has increased demand for employers’ liability insurance. Australia has mandatory covers for aviation, maritime oil pollution and residential construction and, in certain states, for medical practitioners, property brokers and stock brokers. Liability insurance premiums have grown at an average annual rate of 11% since 2000.\n\nChina is the ninth largest commercial liability market globally, with premiums of USD 3.5 billion in 2013 and strong annual average growth of 22% since 2000. However, penetration remains low at 0.04% of GDP. Growth has been driven by increasing risk awareness and regulatory changes.\n\nLiability insurers have one, two or three major duties, depending upon the jurisdiction: \n\nThe duty to defend is prevalent in the United States and Canada, where most liability insurance policies provide that the insurer \"has the right and duty\" to defend the insured against all \"suits\" to which the policies apply. It is usually triggered when the insured is sued (or in some instances, given pre-suit notice that they are about to be sued) and subsequently \"tenders\" defense of the claim to its liability insurer. Usually this is done by sending a copy of the complaint along with a cover letter referencing the relevant insurance policy or policies and demanding an immediate defense.\n\nIn most U.S. states and Canada, the insurer generally has four main options at this point, to:\n\nThe duty to defend is generally broader than the duty to indemnify, because most (but not all) policies that provide for such a duty also specifically promise to defend against claims that are groundless, false, or fraudulent. Therefore, the duty to defend is normally triggered by a potential for coverage. The test for a potential for coverage is whether the complaint adequately pleads at least one claim or cause of action which would be covered under the terms of the policy if the plaintiff were to prevail on that claim at trial, and also does not plead any allegations which would entirely vitiate an essential element of coverage or trigger a complete exclusion to coverage. It is irrelevant whether the plaintiff will prevail or actually prevails on the claim; rather, the test is whether the claim if proven would be covered. Vague or ambiguous allegations broad enough to encompass a range of possibilities both within and without coverage are usually construed in favor of a potential for coverage, but speculation about unpled allegations (that is, matters on which the complaint is totally silent) is insufficient to create a potential for coverage. Some jurisdictions allow extrinsic evidence to be considered, either because it is expressly described in the complaint or it is relevant to the facts expressly alleged in the complaint. \n\nIf there is a duty to defend, it means the insurer must defend the insured against the entire lawsuit even if most of the claims or causes of action in the complaint are clearly not covered. An insurer can choose to defend unconditionally without reserving any rights, but by doing so, it waives (or is later estopped from asserting) the absence of coverage as a defense to the duty to defend and impliedly commits to defending the insured to a final judgment or a settlement regardless of how long it takes (unless the policy expressly provides that defense costs reduce policy limits). In the alternative, the insurer may defend under a reservation of rights: it sends a letter to the insured reserving its rights to immediately withdraw from the insured's defense if it becomes clear there is no coverage or no potential for coverage for the entire complaint, and to recover from the insured any funds expended to that point on defending against any particular claims or causes of action which were never covered or even potentially covered to begin with. \n\nIf the insurer chooses to defend, it may either defend the claim with its own in-house lawyers (where allowed), or give the claim to an outside law firm on a \"panel\" of preferred firms which have negotiated a standard fee schedule with the insurer in exchange for a regular flow of work. The decision to defend under a reservation of rights must be undertaken with extreme caution in jurisdictions where the insured has a right to independent counsel, also known as Cumis counsel.\n\nThe insurer can also seek a declaratory judgment against the insured that there is no coverage for the claim, or at least no potential for coverage. This option generally allows the insurer to insulate itself from a bad faith claim, in the sense that an insurer acts in good faith when it promptly brings coverage disputes to the attention of a court, even though it also places the insured in the awkward position of defending itself against \"two\" lawsuits: the plaintiff's original complaint and the insurer's complaint for declaratory judgment. Indeed, in some jurisdictions an insurer acting in good faith \"must\" seek declaratory relief from a court before declining to defend its insured (e.g., Illinois) or withdrawing from its defense pursuant to an earlier reservation of rights (e.g., Georgia). \n\nFinally, the insurer can decline to defend and also refrain from seeking declaratory judgment. If the insurer is absolutely certain that there is no coverage or no potential for coverage, then in most jurisdictions the insurer adequately preserves its defenses to coverage by sending a letter to the insured explaining its position and declining to provide a defense. But this option can be very risky, because if a court later determines that there was a duty to defend all along, then it will hold that the insurer necessarily breached that duty, and may also hold that the insurer is subject to tort liability for bad faith. So insurers will often defend under a reservation of rights rather than decline coverage altogether.\n\nOutside of the United States and Canada, liability insurers generally do not assume a duty to defend, in the sense of assuming a direct responsibility for hiring and paying a lawyer to defend the insured. Many write policies which promise to reimburse the insured for reasonable defense costs incurred with the insurer's consent, but this is essentially a form of indemnification (covered in the next section below), under which the insured remains primarily responsible for hiring a lawyer to defend themselves. Such insurers often expressly reserve a right to defend the insured, presumably so they can intervene to protect their own interests if the insured's counsel of choice is not providing an adequate defense against the underlying claim.\n\nAn indemnity case arises when an individual is obliged to pay for the loss or damage incurred by another person in an event of an accident, collision etc. The duty of indemnity generally originates from the agreement in between insurer and insured which protects the insured against any liability, damage or loss. \n\nThe duty to indemnify is the insurer's duty to pay all covered sums for which the insured is held liable, up to the limits of coverage and subject to any deductibles, retained limits, self-insured retention, excess payments, or any other amounts of money which the insured is required to pay out-of-pocket as a precondition to the insurer's duty.\n\nIt is generally triggered when a final judgement is entered against the insured, and it is satisfied when the insurer pays such covered amounts to the plaintiff who obtained the judgement. Most policies provide for payment of monetary damages as well as any costs, expenses, and attorney's fees which the plaintiff may also be entitled to as the prevailing party. \n\nUnlike the duty to defend, the duty to indemnify extends only to those claims or causes of action in the plaintiff's complaint which are actually covered under the policy, since a final judgement against the insured would normally be supported by a factual record in the trial court showing exactly why the plaintiff prevailed (or failed to prevail) on each claim or cause of action. Thus, an insurer could have a duty to defend based on mere allegations that show a potential for coverage, but may not have a duty to indemnify if the evidence supporting a final judgement against the insured also takes those claims or causes of action completely outside of the policy's scope of coverage. \n\nWhile the duty to defend and the duty to settle are rare outside of English-speaking North America, the duty to indemnify is universally found in liability insurance policies.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, there is a third duty, the duty to settle a reasonably clear claim against the insured. This duty is generally triggered only if a reasonable opportunity to settle actually arises, either because the plaintiff makes a settlement offer, or the insurer is aware of information to the effect that the plaintiff would accept a settlement offer. The insurer is neither required to initiate an offer to a plaintiff likely to refuse it, nor required to accept an outrageous offer from a plaintiff who filed a frivolous lawsuit and cannot prevail against the insured under any theory. \n\nThe duty to settle is of greatest import in the scenario where the insured may have some liability exposure (i.e., there is some evidence apparently linking the insured to the plaintiff's alleged injuries), the plaintiff has evidence of substantial damages which may exceed policy limits, and the plaintiff makes a settlement demand (either to the insured or directly to a defending insurer) which equals or exceeds policy limits. In that situation, the insurer's interests conflict with the insured's interests, because the insurer has an incentive to \"not\" immediately settle. That is, if the insurer refuses to settle and the case then goes to trial, there are only two possible outcomes: (1) the insured loses and the insurer must pay the ensuing judgment against the insured up to the policy limits, or (2) the insured wins, meaning both the insured and the insurer bear no liability. If the first outcome occurs, then it is essentially \"nothing gained nothing lost\" from the insurer's point of view, because either way it will pay out its policy limits. (For simplicity, this analysis disregards sunk costs in the form of defense costs incurred to that point, as well as additional costs sustained by the insurer in defending the insured to a verdict at trial, and opportunity costs sustained by the insured while participating in trial.) \n\nWhile the insurer may be indifferent in this scenario as to whether it pays out its policy limits before or after trial, the insured is most certainly not. If the first outcome above were to occur, the insured may be held liable to the plaintiff for a sum far in excess of both the pretrial settlement offer and the policy limits. Then after the insurer pays out its policy limits, the plaintiff may attempt to recover the remaining balance of the judgment by enforcing writs of attachment or execution against the insured's valuable assets. \n\nThis is where the duty to settle comes in. To discourage the insurer from gambling with the insured's assets in pursuit of the remote possibility of a defense verdict (under which it can avoid having to pay the plaintiff anything at all), the insurer is subject to a duty to settle reasonably clear claims. The standard judicial test is that an insurer must settle a claim if a reasonable insurer, notwithstanding any policy limits, would have settled the claim. This does not require an insurer to accept or pay settlement offers that actually exceed policy limits, but in that instance, the insurer must discharge its duty to settle by at least making an attempt to bring about a settlement in which it would have to pay only its policy limits (either because the plaintiff agrees to lower their demand or the insured or another primary or excess insurer agrees to contribute the difference).\n\nGenerally, an insurer who breaches any of the foregoing duties will be held liable for breach of contract. In most jurisdictions, the result is a judgment requiring payment of the insured's expectation damages—the sums that the insurer should have paid under its duty to indemnify. But this will be circumscribed by the policy limits, and will generally not compensate the insured for losses incurred as a consequence of the insurer's breach, such as lost business opportunities when money intended to be invested in those opportunities was diverted (or seized) to pay judgments. \n\nIn the United States (and to a lesser extent, Canada), an insurer who breaches \"any\" of these three duties in a particularly egregious fashion may also be held liable for the tort of insurance bad faith, under which the insured may be able to recover compensatory damages in excess of the policy limits, as well as punitive damages.\n\nTraditionally, liability insurance was written on an occurrence basis, meaning that the insurer agreed to defend and indemnify against any loss which allegedly \"occurred\" as a result of an act or omission of the insured during the policy period. This was originally not a problem because it was thought that insureds' tort liability was predictably limited by doctrines like proximate cause and statutes of limitations. In other words, it was thought that no sane plaintiffs' lawyer would sue in 1978 for a tortious act that allegedly occurred in 1953, because the risk of dismissal was so obvious.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, a large number of major toxic tort (primarily involving asbestos and diethylstilbestrol) and environmental liabilities resulted in numerous judicial decisions and statutes that radically extended the so-called \"long tail\" of vulnerable policies. The result was that insurers who had long ago closed their books on policies written 20, 30, or 40 years earlier now found that their insureds were being hit with hundreds of thousands of lawsuits that potentially implicated those old policies. A body of law has developed concerning which policies must respond to these continuous injury or \"long tail\" claims, with many courts holding multiple policies may be implicated by the application of an exposure, continuous injury, or injury-in-fact trigger and others holding the policy in effect at the time the injuries or damages are discovered are implicated.\n\nThe insurance industry reacted in two ways to these developments. First, premiums on \"new\" occurrence policies skyrocketed, since the industry better learned to assess their risk. Second, the industry began issuing claims-made policies, where the policy covers only those claims that are first \"made\" against the insured during the policy period. A related variation is the claims-made-and-reported policy, under which the policy covers only those claims that are first made against the insured \"and\" reported by the insured to the insurer during the policy period (which often include a grace period for reporting after the end of the policy period to protect insureds who are sued at the very end of the policy term.)\n\nClaims-made policies enable insurers to again sharply limit their own long-term liability on each policy and in turn, to close their books on policies and record a profit. Hence, they are much more affordable than occurrence policies and are very popular for that reason. Of course, claims-made policies shift the burden to insureds to immediately report new claims to insurers. They also force insureds to become more proactive about risk management and finding ways to control their own long-tail liability.\n\nClaims-made policies often include strict clauses that require insureds to report even \"potential\" claims and that combine an entire series of related acts into a single claim. This puts insureds in a position of trading off timely reporting every \"potential\" claim (i.e., every slip-and-fall on their premises), even if those never ripen into actual lawsuits, and thereby protect their right to coverage, at the expense of making themselves look more risky and driving up their own insurance premiums. Or they can wait until they actually get sued, but then they run the risk that the claim will be denied because it should have been reported back when the underlying accident first occurred.\n\nClaims-made coverage also makes it harder for insureds to switch insurers, as well as to wind up and shut down their operations. It is possible to purchase \"tail coverage\" for such situations, but only at premiums much higher than for conventional claims-made policies, since the insurer is being asked to re-assume the kind of liabilities which claims-made policies were intended to push to insureds to begin with.\n\nNot surprisingly, insureds recognised what the insurance industry was up to in trying to use claims-made policies to push a substantial amount of risk back to insureds, and claims-made coverage was the subject of extensive litigation in several countries throughout the 1970s, 1980s, and 1990s. This led to important decisions of the U.S. Supreme Court in 1978 and 1993 and of the Supreme Court of Canada in 1993.\n\nOne way for businesses to cut down their liability insurance premiums is to negotiate a policy with a retained limit or self-insured retention (SIR), which is somewhat like a deductible. With such policies, the insured is essentially agreeing to self-insure and self-defend for smaller claims, and to tender only for liability claims that exceed a certain value. However, writing such insurance is itself risky for insurers. The California Courts of Appeal have held that primary insurers on policies with a SIR must still provide an \"immediate, 'first dollar' defence\" (subject, of course, to their right to later recover the SIR amount from the insured) unless the policy expressly imposes exhaustion of the SIR as a precondition to the duty to defend.\n\nIn many countries, liability insurance is a compulsory form of insurance for those at risk of being sued by third parties for negligence. The most usual classes of mandatory policy cover the drivers of motor vehicles (vehicle insurance), those who offer professional services to the public, those who manufacture products that may be harmful, constructors and those who offer employment. The reason for such laws is that the classes of insured are deliberately engaging in activities that put others at risk of injury or loss. Public policy therefore requires that such individuals should carry insurance so that, if their activities do cause loss or damage to another, money will be available to pay compensation. In addition, there are a further range of perils that people insure against and, consequently, the number and range of liability policies has increased in line with the rise of contingency fee litigation offered by lawyers (sometimes on a class action basis). Such policies fall into three main classes:\n\nIndustry and commerce are based on a range of processes and activities that have the potential to affect third parties (members of the public, visitors, trespassers, sub-contractors, etc. who may be physically injured or whose property may be damaged or both). It varies from state to state as to whether either or both employer's liability insurance and public liability insurance have been made compulsory by law. Regardless of compulsion, however, most organizations include public liability insurance in their insurance portfolio even though the conditions, exclusions, and warranties included within the standard policies can be a burden. A company owning an industrial facility, for instance, may buy pollution insurance to cover lawsuits resulting from environmental accidents.\n\nMany small businesses do not secure general or professional liability insurance due to the high cost of premiums. However, in the event of a claim, out-of-pocket costs for a legal defence or settlement can far exceed premium costs. In some cases, the costs of a claim could be enough to shut down a small business.\n\nBusinesses must consider all potential risk exposures when deciding whether liability insurance is needed, and, if so, how much coverage is appropriate and cost-effective.\nThose with the greatest public liability risk exposure are occupiers of premises where large numbers of third parties frequent at leisure including shopping centres, pubs, clubs, theatres, cinemas, sporting venues, markets, hotels and resorts. The risk increases dramatically when consumption of alcohol and sporting events are included. Certain industries such as security and cleaning are considered high risk by underwriters. In some cases underwriters even refuse to insure the liability of these industries or choose to apply a large deductible in order to minimise the potential compensations.\nPrivate individuals also occupy land and engage in potentially dangerous activities. For example, a rotten branch may fall from an old tree and injure a pedestrian, and many people ride bicycles and skateboards in public places. The majority of states require motorists to carry insurance and criminalise those who drive without a valid policy. Many also require insurance companies to provide a default fund to offer compensation to those physically injured in accidents where the driver did not have a valid policy.\n\nIn many countries, claims are dealt with under common law principles established through a long history of case law and if litigated, are made by way of civil actions in the relevant jurisdiction.\n\nProduct liability insurance is not a compulsory class of insurance in all countries, but legislation such as the UK Consumer Protection Act 1987 and the EC Directive on Product Liability (25/7/85) require those manufacturing or supplying goods to carry some form of product liability insurance, usually as part of a combined liability policy. The scale of potential liability is illustrated by cases such as those involving Mercedes-Benz for unstable vehicles and Perrier for benzene contamination, but the full list covers pharmaceuticals and medical devices, asbestos, tobacco, recreational equipment, mechanical and electrical products, chemicals and pesticides, agricultural products and equipment, food contamination, and all other major product classes.\n\nLaws regarding workers compensation, which compensate an employee, vary by country, but the Workers’ Accident Insurance system put into place by Otto von Bismarck in 1881 is often cited as a model for Europe and later the United States.\n\nIn many legal jurisdictions workers compensation is compulsory depending upon the business, including the United Kingdom and many states of the United States with the notable exception of Texas as of 2018. Regardless of compulsory requirements, businesses may purchase insurance voluntarily, and in the United States policies typically include Part One for compulsory coverage and Part Two for non-compulsory coverage.\n\nOriginal jurisdiction over workers' compensation claims has been diverted in much of the United States to administrative proceedings outside of the federal and state courts. They operate as no-fault schemes in which the employee need not prove the employer's fault; it is sufficient for the employee to prove that the injury occurred in the course of employment. If a third party other than the employer actually caused the injury, then the workers' compensation insurer (or self-insured employer) who is ordered to pay an employee's claim is usually entitled to initiate a subrogation action in the regular court system against the third party. In turn, workers' compensation insurance is regulated and underwritten separately from liability insurance. Just as the Insurance Services Office develops standard liability insurance forms and obtains approval for them from state insurance commissioners, the National Council on Compensation Insurance (NCCI) and various state rating bureaus provide similar services in the workers' compensation context.\n\nU.S. workers' compensation insurance generally covers only bodily injury to and death of employees, but it does not always cover other persons who may suffer injury as a direct result of such bodily injury or death. U.S. employers often carry Employers' Liability coverage (which is not necessarily compulsory) to protect themselves from lawsuits from such persons who would still have the right to sue them in the courts, such as an employee's spouse who claims loss of consortium as a result of the employee's bodily injury on the job which was allegedly caused by the employer's negligence.\n\nWorkers' compensation also does not cover intangible torts that merely cause emotional distress, or torts arising from management negligence and liability to shareholders. General management liability coverage may include directors and officers (D&O) liability insurance, employment practices liability (EPL) insurance, fiduciary liability insurance, and \"special crime\" insurance (kidnap, ransom, and extortion), either individually or as part of a cohesive package.\n\nEmployment practices liability arose in the 1980s, after U.S. employees began to obtain jury verdicts against their employers due to workplace actions such as wrongful dismissal. Insurance Services Office (ISO), a vendor of standard form contract insurance policies, revised the Commercial General Liability insurance policy form to exclude coverage for torts related to the employer-employee relationship like racial or gender discrimination in the workplace, as well as liability for negligent supervision of midlevel managers who committed such torts. Thereafter, specific policy forms were created to cover this specific risk.\n\nGeneral Liability Insurance is the kind of coverage that provides an individual with protection against variety of claims which may include bodily injuries, physical damage to car, property damage etc arising from business operations. \nGeneral Liability Insurance (GP) covers a number of businesses and the norms of insurance may vary from company to company as well as area to area. Many of the public and product liability risks are often covered together under a general liability policy. These risks may include bodily injury or property damage caused by direct or indirect actions of the insured.\n\nIn the United States, general liability insurance coverage most often appears in the Commercial General Liability policies obtained by businesses, and in homeowners' insurance policies obtained by individual homeowners.\n\nGenerally, liability insurance covers only the risk of being sued for negligence or strict liability torts, but not any tort or crime with a higher level of \"mens rea\". This is usually mandated by the policy language itself or case law or statutes in the jurisdiction where the insured resides or does business.\n\nIn other words, liability insurance does not protect against liability resulting from crimes or intentional torts committed by the insured. This is intended to prevent criminals, particularly organised crime, from obtaining liability insurance to cover the costs of defending themselves in criminal actions brought by the state or civil actions brought by their victims. A contrary rule would encourage the commission of crime, and allow insurance companies to indirectly profit from it, by allowing criminals to insure themselves from adverse consequences of their own actions.\n\nCrime is not uninsurable \"per se\". In contrast to liability insurance, it is possible to obtain \"loss\" insurance to compensate one's losses as the victim of a crime.\n\nIn the United States, most states make only the carrying of motor vehicle insurance mandatory. Where the carrying of a policy is not mandatory and a third party makes a claim for injuries suffered, evidence that a party has liability insurance is generally inadmissible in a lawsuit on public policy grounds, because the courts do not want to discourage parties from carrying such insurance. There are two exceptions to this rule:\n\n\nBecause technology companies represent a relatively new industry that deals largely with intangible yet highly valuable data, some definitions of legal liability may still be evolving in this field. Technology firms must carefully read and fully understand their policy limits to ensure coverage of all potential risks inherent in their work.\n\nTypically, professional liability insurance protects technology firms from litigation resulting from charges of professional negligence or failure to perform professional duties. Covered incidents may include errors and omissions that result in the loss of client data, software or system failure, claims of non-performance, negligent overselling of services, contents of a forum post or email of an employee that are incorrect or cause harm to a reputation, getting rid of office equipment such as fax machines without properly clearing their internal memory, or failing to notify customers that their private data has been breached. For example, some client companies have won large settlements after technology subcontractors’ actions resulted in the loss of irreplaceable data. Professional liability insurance would generally cover such settlements and legal defense, within policy limits.\n\nAdditionally, client contracts often require technology subcontractors working on-site to provide proof of general liability and professional liability insurance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853590", "title": "Tomasz Antoni Zamoyski", "text": "Tomasz Antoni Zamoyski\n\nTomasz Antoni Zamoyski (1707–1752) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nTomasz became the 7th Ordynat of Zamość estate. Since 1744 voivode of Lublin Voivodeship. He was awarded the Knight of the Order of the White Eagle on 3 August 1746.\n\nHe was married to Marianna Lubienska and Aniela Teresa Michowska. He had one child with Michowska, Klemens Zamoyski.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853597", "title": "Long Trail Brewing Company", "text": "Long Trail Brewing Company\n\nLong Trail Brewing Company is a regional brewery in Bridgewater Corners, Vermont, United States. Founded in 1989 by Andy Pherson in the basement of the Bridgewater Woolen Mill, the company relocated to its current brewing facility and visitor center in 1995. Originally known as Mountain Brewers, the company changed its name to Long Trail Brewing Company shortly after their relocation to Bridgewater Corners, Vermont. In 2006, Long Trail was acquired by its present owner, Fulham and Co., a Massachusetts-based private equity firm. Located on the banks of the Ottaquechee River in the heart of the Green Mountains, the Long Trail campus includes its brewing operations, visitor center, farmhouse pilot brewery and wastewater treatment facility.\n\n\"Long Trail Ale\", a German Altbier, is the company's flagship beer. It is the largest selling craft-brew in Vermont.\n\nLong Trail makes a number of different styles of beer, mostly English-style top-fermented ales, but its flagship beer is Long Trail Ale, a Düsseldorf-style altbier. It also participates in the tradition of brewing a \"Sticke\" Alt (from a dialect German word for secret) known as Long Trail Double Bag, though unlike the German originators of the style, Long Trail makes Double Bag available year-round. During the 1990s it also brewed a Kölsch-style ale as a spring seasonal.\n\nIn the summer of 2006 Long Trail added a hefeweizen to its list of brews. Originally Long Trail's summer seasonal brew, \"Blackbeary Wheat\" became a year-round beer in the Fall of 2007. In 2013, the Farmhouse Pilot Brewery introduced the Limbo IPA, which became the first year-round brew produced by the Pilot project.\n\nThe Brown Bag concept was developed in 1993 as a way for Long Trail to develop new recipes quickly without the added expense of graphic design and packaging. These small batch brews developed into Long Trail favorites like \"Double Bag\", a year-round Strong Ale and \"Hit the Trail Ale\", a limited release English Brown Ale.\n\nAlthough discontinued in the early 1990s, the Brown Bag Series was revived in October 2012 as a small-batch, limited release series that pays homage to the original Brown Bag concept. Thanks to a small-batch pilot brewing facility on Long Trail's campus, brewers can experiment with recipes on a small scale. The draught is available at the brewery and other establishments throughout the East. Current and past Brown Bag releases include an \"American IPA\", \"Belgian Smoked Porter\", \"Milk Stout\" and \"Maple Maibock\" (fermented with maple syrup).\n\nLong Trail Brewing Company distributes its product throughout New England, New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Delaware, Virginia and the District of Columbia. 45% of its beer is consumed in Vermont.\n\nThe brewery's name derives from the Long Trail, a 272-mile hiking trail that snakes through the Green Mountains of Vermont.\n\nIn 2010, Long Trail Brewing Company acquired Otter Creek Brewing and with it Wolaver's Organic Brewery.\n\nThe Long Trail Brewery was featured in the Discovery Channel's television show Dirty Jobs with Mike Rowe in the Chick Sexer episode #1.7.\n\nIn August 2014, Long Trail Brewing Company filed a trademark infringement suit against Bent Paddle Brewing Company for using a logo of a hiker with a backpack similar to their own. The suit was amicably settled in December 2014, with Bent Paddle agreeing to discontinue the use of that logo and both breweries making charitable donations to hiking-related groups in one another's states.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853599", "title": "1985 World Health Organization AIDS surveillance case definition", "text": "1985 World Health Organization AIDS surveillance case definition\n\nThe 1985 World Health Organization AIDS surveillance case definition was developed in October 1985, at a conference of public health officials including representatives of the Centers for Disease Control (CDC) and World Health Organization (WHO) in Bangui, Central African Republic. For this reason, it became to be known as the Bangui definition for AIDS. It was developed for use in countries where testing for HIV antibodies was not available.\n\nIt stated the following:\n\nExclusion criteria\n\nThe diagnosis of AIDS is established when the score is 12 or more.\n\nThe 1985 WHO AIDS surveillance case definition was heavily criticised, for both medical and political reasons. The 1994 expanded World Health Organization AIDS case definition was introduced in 1994 to incorporate the statement that HIV testing \"should\" be done. However, if testing was unavailable, then the Bangui definition should be used.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853602", "title": "Troll (film)", "text": "Troll (film)\n\nTroll is a 1986 American comedy horror film directed by John Carl Buechler and produced by Charles Band of Empire Pictures, starring Noah Hathaway, Michael Moriarty, Shelley Hack, Jenny Beck and Sonny Bono. The film was shot in Italy in the Stabilimenti Cinematografici Pontini studios near Rome. It is unrelated to \"Troll 2\" and the two \"Troll 3\" films.\n\nThe Potter family – Harry Sr. and Anne with teenage son Harry Jr. and young daughter Wendy – move into a new apartment complex in San Francisco. While unpacking, Wendy is attacked by a grotesque little creature wielding a magic ring. The troll captures Wendy and takes on her appearance. After meeting the other eccentric tenants, the family notices Wendy's unusual and aggressive behavior, but they attribute her behavior to the stress of the move. The troll goes from apartment to apartment transforming the tenants into fairy tale creatures (such as goblins, nymphs and elves) and their apartments into lush forests. Concerned by his sister's behavior, Harry Jr. seeks solace in the company of a mysterious old woman named Eunice St. Clair, who reveals herself to be a witch. Long ago, she and a powerful wizard named Torok were in love. At that time, the world was divided between fairies and humans. The realms were equal and independent of each other; however, Torok and some of the fairies challenged this balance, resulting in a great war in which the humans prevailed. Torok was mutated into a troll as punishment.\n\nTorok seeks to regain his power, destroy humanity and recreate the fairy tale world he had once lived in. As Torok requires a princess, he is keeping Wendy alive. Eunice and Harry Jr. discover that all the apartments have been transformed into a part of the magical world. Eunice gives Harry Jr. a magic spear capable of killing the largest and most vicious creature in this world. Eunice is attacked by Torok and mutated into a tree stump, and Harry finds his sister trapped in a coffin of glass. Harry Jr. saves Wendy, but loses the magic spear when Torok's great batlike monster attacks.\n\nBefore the monster can kill Harry Jr. and Wendy, Torok kills it himself to spare Wendy, destroying his carefully constructed fairy realm. As the magic world collapses around them, Harry Jr. and his family are given a chance to escape, leaving just as the police arrive. Eunice is restored to normal as well as she bids Harry farewell and departs. As the police investigate the house, one of them is drawn into a remaining fragment of the alternate fairy world. Torok's arm rises into view, preparing to use his ring on the cop.\n\n\nThe estimated budget for \"Troll\" was between $700,000 and $1.1 million. \"Troll\" opened in the U.S. on January 19, 1986 on 959 screens, earning $2,595,054 that weekend. The film placed ninth on the box office charts for opening weekend.\n\nThe film received poor reviews by critics, including by Janet Maslin, Patricia Smith, and Alan Carter. Rex Reed had a few positive comments, but was predominantly negative. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film received an approval rating of 25% based on 8 reviews, with an average rating of 4.1/10. On Metacritic the film has a weighted average score of 30 out of 100, based on 5 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nDespite the negative response, the film did become a cult classic, and an unrelated 1990 movie initially called \"\"Goblins\"\" was renamed \"\"Troll 2\"\" in an attempt to misleadingly market itself as a sequel to \"Troll\".\n\n\"Troll\" was released on a double feature DVD with Troll 2 by MGM on August 26, 2003. Scream Factory released a double feature Blu-ray of \"Troll\" and \"Troll 2\" on November 17, 2015. The first 5,000 copies included a DVD of \"Best Worst Movie\", the documentary about the production and legacy of \"Troll 2\".\n\nIn 1986, Beck was nominated to 8th Youth in Film Association, for the .\n\n\"Troll\"s plot has no relation to the film \"Troll 2\" or the two \"Troll 3\" films, which are intended to be more horror than fantasy. Its first \"sequel\", \"Troll 2\", produced under the title \"Goblins\", is considered one of the worst films of all time, and was retitled \"Troll 2\" to cash in on the success of the original. Over time, it has developed a cult following.\n\nThe films \"Creepers\" (also known as \"Contamination .7\" or \"The Crawlers\") and \"Quest for the Mighty Sword\" (also known as \"Ator IV\", \"Ator III: The Hobgoblin\", or \"Hobgoblins\") both adopted the name \"Troll 3\" at some point as an alternate title despite neither having a plot relation to the two previous \"Troll\" films (with the exception that the Hobgoblin in \"Quest\" does resemble the Goblins in \"Troll 2\").\n\nIn August 2011, rumors circulated of another sequel. In July 2015, new plans arose in the form of a prequel, titled \"Troll: The Rise of Harry Potter Jr.\", along with an animated series. The film, starring Patricia Arquette and Baxter Bartlett, was released in 2017, with the animated series broadcast on 2018.\n\nSince the release of the \"Harry Potter\" books starting in 1997, some of those involved in the film have accused J. K. Rowling of \"borrowing\" elements from \"Troll\". Producer Charles Band stated in an interview that \"there are certain scenes in \"Troll\", not to mention the name of the main character, and this of course predates the \"Harry Potter\" books by many years. In 2008, John Buechler's partner in the \"Troll\" remake, Peter Davy, said about \"Harry Potter\": \"In John's opinion, he created the first \"Harry Potter\". J. K. Rowling says the idea just came to her. John doesn't think so.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1853603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853603", "title": "Juanito Oiarzabal", "text": "Juanito Oiarzabal\n\nJuan Eusebio Oiarzabal Urteaga (born 30 March 1956), commonly known as Juanito Oiarzabal, is a noted Spanish Basque mountaineer and has written four books on the subject. He was the sixth man to reach all 14 eight-thousander summits, and the third one in reaching them without supplementary oxygen. He was the first person to conquer the top 3 summits twice (Everest + K2 + Kangchenjunga), and was the oldest climber to summit Kangchenjunga, at almost 53, until Carlos Soria Fontan made his successful attempt in 2014, when he was 75 years old. \nIn 2004, he lost all his toes to frostbite after summiting K2.\n\nIn 2009 he announced he wants to become the first person in history to reach a \"double 14\", summiting each 8000er twice. In April 2010 he reached 24 eight-thousanders, after climbing Annapurna, a world record. In 2011 he climbed Lhotse for a second time, which was his 25th eight-thousander. He is second all-time for 8000er ascents behind Nepali climber Phurba Tashi Sherpa, who has 28.\n\nHis success in the Himalayas is well-known, but less well known is that before starting on those ascents he had already accumulated a curriculum which is among the best of Spain. He undertook ascents on all the Spanish mountain masses, on the hardest routes. He even discovered some routes of great relevance. He is highly experienced in climbing the Alps, undertaking climbs for the technical challenges they presented. In other continents, he has climbed in North America, South America and Africa and returning to the Himalayas, it is here that he carries out his expeditions with the greatest ease, which may seem obvious after 35 expeditions over 23 years.\n\n1984 / McKinley (6,194 m) - West Buttress Route\n\n1983 / Aconcagua (6,957 m) – 5th world winter ascent (He has accredited 16 ascents to the Aconcagua, as a “guide”)\n\n1988 / Mount Kenya – Diamond Corridor\n\n1982 / Kangchuntse (Makalu II) (7,640 m). Altitude reached: 7,200 m <br>\n1988 / Kangchenjunga (8,586 m). North side. Altitude reached: 8,000 m <br>\n1989 / Makalu (8,465 m). West Pillar. Altitude reached: 8,350 m <br>\n1990 / Everest (8,848 m). Southwest side. Altitude reached: 8,300 m <br>\n1991 / Kangchenjunga (8,586 m). North side. Altitude reached: 8,400 m <br>\n1993 / Everest (8,848 m). South-Southeast Route - crest. SUMMIT <br>\n1995 / Makalu (8,465 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n1995 / Lhotse (8,516 m). Normal Route. SUMMIT <br>\n1996 / Kangchenjunga (8,586 m). North side. British route. SUMMIT <br>\n1997 / Manaslu (8,163 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n1998 / Dhaulagiri (8,167 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n1999 / Annapurna (8,091 m.). German route. SUMMIT <br>\n2002 / Makalu (8,465 m). West pillar. Altitude reached: 7,600 m <br>\n2004 / Ama Dablam (6,856 m). Southwestern sharp edge. SUMMIT <br>\n2010 / Annapurna (8,091 m.). SUMMIT (Helicopter used on descent) <br>\n2011 / Lhotse (8,516 m). SUMMIT\n\n1987 / Gasherbrum II (8,035 m). . SUMMIT <br>\n1987 / Hidden Peak (8,068 m). Messner route. Altitude reached: 6,800 m <br>\n1992 / Nanga Parbat (8,125 m). Kinshofer route. SUMMIT <br>\n1994 / K.2 - Chogori (8,611 m). Tomo Cesen route (1st integral). SUMMIT <br>\n1995 / Broad Peak (8,047 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n1997 / Hidden Peak (8,068 m). Japanese Corridor. SUMMIT <br>\n2003 / Broad Peak (8,047 m). Winter. Altitude reached: 6,900 m. <br>\n2003 / Gasherbrum II (8,035m.) Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n2003 / Hidden Peak (8,068 m). Japanese Corridor. SUMMIT <br>\n2004 / K.2 - Chogori (8,611 m). SUMMIT \n\n1985 / Cho-Oyu (8,201 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n1998 / Shisha Pangma (8,046 m). Southwest side. British route. SUMMIT <br>\n2000 / Everest (8,848 m). North side. Altitude reached: 8,700 m (without O) <br>\n2001 / Everest (8,848 m). North side. SUMMIT (without O) <br>\n2002 / Cho-Oyu (8,201 m). Normal route. SUMMIT <br>\n2003 / Cho-Oyu (8,201 m). Normal route. SUMMIT (23 September) <br>\n2003 / Cho-Oyu (8,201 m). Normal route. SUMMIT (5 October)\n\n2000 / Crossing between the localities of Narsasoak and Kangarlosoak (650 km) on a sleigh, pulled by a kite.\n\n2000 / Taklamakan 800 km desert crossing, (desert, within the Gobi desert), only with the help of camels.\n\n2001 / Mount Elbrus (5,642 m) Normal route. Winter. The highest European summit.\n\n\nMr. Oiarzabal has published four books:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853606", "title": "Death, Dungeons and Taxes Party", "text": "Death, Dungeons and Taxes Party\n\nThe Death, Dungeons and Taxes Party was a satirical British political party which fielded two candidates in the 2005 United Kingdom general election. They were Brett Harris in Edinburgh East, and Damian Fleck in the City of York.\n\nThe party's manifesto advocated reducing the school leaving age to nine, the annexation of France, and the reintroduction of hanging, but only for \"minor offences\" such as littering. By contrast, murderers would be disembowelled, along with improper users of text language. The proposed rate of tax was 90%. Immigrants would be repelled with boiling oil and longbows at all ports and airports.\n\nIn the Edinburgh East constituency, Brett Harris managed to earn 89 votes, representing 0.2% of the turnout. Damien Fleck had equal success in the City of York constituency, earning 93 votes, which also represented 0.2% of the turnout. Both candidates were beaten by all party representatives in their constituencies. Damien Fleck was also beaten by one independent candidate, though he did beat another independent.\n\nThere was some confusion as to the party's name. On official logos and on the BBC website it was referred to as \"Dungeons, Death and Taxes Party\". However, the two candidates who represented the party in the 2005 general elections stood under the name \"Death, Dungeons and Taxes Party\". Hence, this was the name listed on most official election websites.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853608", "title": "Feyyaz Uçar", "text": "Feyyaz Uçar\n\nFeyyaz Uçar (born on 27 October 1963) is a Turkish former professional football player, who played as a striker, and more recently a coach. He is an assistant coach for Denizlispor.\n\nBorn in Istanbul, Turkey, Uçar started his football career at Avcılar Spor Klübü. Attracting various scouts while with Avcilar, he was transferred to Beşiktaş's junior squad only for new jerseys for the Avcılar team. After spending a season with the junior squad, Uçar made his professional debut with the A team in the 1981–1982 season. In the 1989–1990 season, he became the top scorer in the league with 28 goals. Uçar transferred to Fenerbahçe SK in 1994. He was loaned to Antalyaspor in 1995. Following year, he was sent to Kuşadası SK for one season. On 31 May 1997, he retired from active footballer.\n\nUçar served as an assistant coach with following the clubs: Çanakkale Dardanelspor (2000–2001), Göztepe SK (2001–2002), Denizlispor (2002). He came back to Beşiktaş J.K. to assist Mircea Lucescu and served with him for four seasons. In February 2005, he signed a one-and-a-half-year contract to coach the Secondary League club Karşıyakaspor in İzmir. However, after two months he signed with the Süper Lig team Malatyaspor to replace Aykut Kocaman who resigned following a 1–0 home defeat by Rizespor. Uçar left Malatyaspor early in the 2005–2006 season after the team's disastrous start. His most recent managerial positions include Karşıyaka (2006–2007), Mardinspor (2007) and Altay (2007–2009).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853609", "title": "Klemens Zamoyski", "text": "Klemens Zamoyski\n\nKlemens Zamoyski (1747–1767) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nKlemens was the 8th Ordynat of Zamość estate, starost of Płoskirów and Tarnów.\n"}
{"id": "1853612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853612", "title": "Fascine knife", "text": "Fascine knife\n\nThe fascine knife was a side arm / tool issued to 17th to 19th century light infantry and artillery. It served both as a personal weapon and as a tool for cutting fascines (bundles of sticks used to strengthen the sides of trenches or earth ramparts protecting the batteries). It could be straight or curved, double edged or single edged with a sawtoothed back.\n\n17th- and 18th-century German, Prussian and Swedish fascine knives were more like cavalry swords, often with a brass handle and a hand guard, but later models were more like billhooks in shape and appearance. By the 20th century, it became the Pioneer's billhook in the British Army, used in World War I for making machine gun emplacements. In the Indian Army, it is known as a Knife Gabion (gabions, like fascines, are used for supporting earthworks).\n\nSome types of fascine knife are probably descended from 16th century sidearms weapons like the baselard or the Swiss sword. Others, known to British foot soldiers as a billhook, are more closely related to agricultural cutting tools.\n\nLike the billhook they were used for cutting saplings (e.g. willow, hazel or chestnut) that were bundled up to make fascines or woven into hurdles, or gabions. Many revetments used a combination of all three, with fascines at the bottom of the trench, hurdles just below ground level and gabions above, filled with the earth from the trench.\n\nAlthough the Spanish Army called its fascine knives \"machetes\", they bore little resemblance to the common cutting tool.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853614", "title": "Argentine Antarctica", "text": "Argentine Antarctica\n\nArgentine Antarctica () is a sector of Antarctica claimed by Argentina as part of its national territory consisting of the Antarctic Peninsula and a triangular section extending to the South Pole, delimited by the 25° West and 74° West meridians and the 60° South parallel. This region overlaps with British and Chilean claims in Antarctica; however, all claims are suspended by the Antarctic Treaty System, of which Argentina is a founding signatory and permanent consulting member, with the Antarctic Treaty Secretariat being based in Buenos Aires.\n\nAdministratively, Argentine Antarctica is a department of the province of Tierra del Fuego, Antarctica, and South Atlantic Islands. The provincial authorities reside in Ushuaia and the Governor annually designates his or her delegate for the Antarctica region. The \"civil power\" of any of the administrators extends no further than that nation's own bases. The South Orkney Islands are part of \"Islas del Atlántico Sur\" (South Atlantic Islands) Department, which include Falkland Islands and South Georgia and South Sandwich Islands (according to Argentine claim).\n\nThe Argentine exploration of the continent started early in the 20th century. José María Sobral was the first Argentine to set foot on Antarctica in 1902, where he spent 2 seasons with the Swedish Antarctic Expedition of Doctor Otto Nordenskiöld. Shortly afterwards, in 1904, the Orcadas permanent base was already fully operational. Years later other bases would be created, some permanent and others seasonal. The first Argentine expedition to reach the South Pole was the 1965 Operación 90.\n\nArgentine activities in Antarctica are coordinated by the Instituto Antártico Argentino (IAA) and Dirección Nacional del Antártico (DNA).\n\nThe estimated Argentine Antarctica area is , of which is land. The ice in the glacier shell has a thickness of 2 km on average. Temperatures range from 0 °C in summer and -60 °C in winter although in certain points may drop to approximately -82 °C.\n\nTime zone UTC-3 is used as in the South American continent.\n\nArgentina has six permanent Antarctic Stations and seven Summer Stations with a total of 13.\n\nAccording to the last Argentine national census, in October 2010 (winter) there were 230 inhabitants in the six permanent bases, including 9 families and 16 children as follow: 75 at Marambio, 66 at Esperanza, 33 at Jubany, 20 at San Martín, 19 at Belgrano II and 17 at Orcadas.\n\nIn 1815 Guillermo Brown, an Irish Marine Commodore in the service of the United Provinces of Río de la Plata, launched a campaign to harass the Spanish fleet in the Pacific Ocean. When rounding Cape Horn aboard the \"Hercules\" and \"Trinidad\", strong winds pushed them to parallel 65 S. Some Argentine sources say that Brown had sighted Antarctic land on the expedition, saying that is the reason why in Argentina cartography often called the northernmost part of the Antarctic Peninsula \"Tierra de la Trinidad\".\n\nIn 1818 the government of the United Provinces of Río de la Plata granted the first concessions for hunting seals and penguins in the Antarctic continent to Juan Pedro de Aguirre, who operated with ships \"Pescadora Director\" and \"San Juan Nepomuceno\". In the petition that was submitted by Aguirre, he requested authorization for the installation of an establishment for seal hunting in some of the existing islands off the South Pole.\n\nThe Argentine sealer \"Santo Spiritu\" under Captain Carlos Tidblom, was followed in September 1819 from the Falkland Islands by the American brig \"Hercilia\" (commanded by Nathaniel Palmer) catching up on Deception Island in the South Shetland Islands. The fact that these sealers were directed to the islands with fixed course is usually regarded as proof that they were previously known.\n\nOn 10 June 1829 the government of the province of Buenos Aires issued a decree creating the \"Political-Military Command of the Malvinas Islands\" (see Louis Vernet) including the islands adjacent to Cape Horn, which plays in Argentina and that included the Antarctic islands.\n\nIn 1848 Luis Piedrabuena traveled to Antarctica as a ship's boy of William Smiley.\n\nThe 10 October 1900 the Argentine government decided to join the International Antarctic Expedition, consisting of several expeditions, but the Argentine did not travel and collaboration offered to the Swedish expedition led by Otto Nordenskjöld. This Argentine receive support in exchange for incorporating an Argentine Navy to dispatch and deliver scientific data and zoological collections that pick. On their way through Buenos Aires lieutenant Jose Maria Sobral boarded the ship \"Antarctic\" on 21 December 1901. As no news of the expedition reached the Argentine government, it then fulfilled its commitment to support the expedition by renovating the corvette ARA Uruguay, which then set out on search on 8 October 1903, under the command of Lieutenant Julián Irizar, finding and rescuing members of the expedition who had been wintering following the collapse of the \"Antarctic\".\n\nThe expedition built a hut on Snow Hill Island in 1902. The Argentine Navy took possession of the hut in 1954 and named it Refugio Suecia. Currently it is an Argentine historical monument and historical site and monument as appointed by the Antarctic Treaty. The 1902 expedition built another hut in Hope Bay, it is also Argentine and an Antarctic monument under the control of Esperanza Station.\n\nOn 2 January 1904 Argentina acquired the weather station installed by Scotsman William Speirs Bruce, in Laurie Island in the South Orkneys, where there had been a crew of six men making scientific observations. In it was a meteorological observatory, where he also worked, a post office was installed. Civil (employee of the Argentine company official post and telegraph) Hugo Alberto Acuna accounted hoist for the first time in an official way the flag of Argentina on the Argentine Antarctic sector, on 22 February 1904. Such an observatory became the Orcadas Base the oldest existing today across the Antarctic territory permanent human settlement.\n\nThe Argentine corvette ARA Uruguay returned to Antarctica in 1905 (sailed from the port of Buenos Aires on 10 December 1904) to relieve staffing of the South Orkney and refer to Deception Island and Wiencke Island in search of Jean-Baptiste Charcot, whose French Antarctic Expedition (1903–1905) was believed to be lost. Thanks to Argentine collaboration with his expedition, Charcot named an insular group as Argentine Islands. One of these islands was named as Galindez Island in honor of the captain of the Corvette, Ismael Galíndez, and another was named Uruguay Island, in homage to the Argentine Corvette.\n\nThe Argentine Government decided to add two meteorological observatories, in the South Georgia Island and Wandel Island, who already had on the islands Laurie and Observatorio (near Isla de los Estados). Expeditions to the Wandel Island failed in two attempts. In June 1905 the transport ARA \"Guardia Nacional\" under the command of the Lieutenant Alfredo P. Lamas carried forward the task of raising the Observatory in Grytviken in Cumberland Bay, renamed in Spanish \"Bahía Guardia Nacional\".\n\nOn 30 March 1927 the first radiotelegraph station in Antarctica was inaugurated in the South Orkney Islands . On 15 December 1927 the General Directorate of post and Telegraph from Argentina informed to the International Bureau of the Universal Postal Union about their Antarctic claims and other islands of the South Atlantic.\n\nIn 1939, Argentina created temporarily (to attend a Norwegian invitation) the National Commission of the Antarctic by Decree number 35821, but by the Decree number 61852 of 30 April 1940 became a permanent body in order to intensify research in the area. Explorations, scientific tasks, were gathering ground and marking.\n\nIn October 1941, the Instituto Geográfico Militar published maps showing the extent of the future Argentine claim between the 25° W and 75 ° W. In January 1942 the Argentine Government, according to the theory of polar sectors, said their Antarctic rights between the Meridian 25° and 68°24' West (of Punta Dúngeness).\n\nArgentina held at Deception Island its formal takeover of the Antarctic land on 8 November 1942, by placing a cylinder containing a report and a flag left there by an expedition under the command of the captain Alberto J. Oddera. In January 1943 the British ship HMS \"Carnarvon Castle\" crew destroyed the evidence of the Argentine inauguration and planted the British flag and sent to Buenos Aires the Act. On 5 March of that year the Argentine vessel ARA \"1° de Mayo\" removed the British flag.\n\nIn 1946, the National Antarctic Commission set new limits for the Argentine Antarctica between the Meridian 25° and 74° West (of the far east of the South Sandwich Islands). Chile and Argentina signed on 4 March 1948 a mutual agreement protecting and defending legal rights territorial Antarctic, mutually recognizing their claims.\n\nOn 7 April 1948, by Decree No. 9905 settled the administrative unit of the Argentine Antarctic Sector of the maritime Governor of the National Territory of Tierra del Fuego. By her Decree No. 17040 of 9 June the \"\"Antarctic and Malvinas Division\"\" was created under authority of the Argentine Ministry of Foreign Affairs.\n\nFirst continental Argentine base in Antarctica, the Almirante Brown Naval detachment was opened in 1951. The following year opened the Esperanza Naval detachment (now Esperanza Station). While building this last base at hope Bay, occurred the first shooting war in Antarctica on 1 February 1952, when a team of coast Argentine, after a warning, fired over the heads of a burst of machine gun and forced to re-embark a civil team of the Falkland Islands Dependencies Survey unloading materials of the ship \"John Biscoe\" intending to restore the British base \"D\" burned down in 1948.\n\nOn 17 January 1953 at Deception Island the Refugio Teniente Lasala (a hut and a tent) was opened by staff of the Argentine ship ARA \"Chiriguano\", becoming a Sergeant and a corporal of the Argentina Navy. On 15 February, in the incident of Deception Island, landed 32 Royal Marines of the British frigate HMS \"Snipe\" armed with Sten submachine guns, rifles and tear gas capturing two Argentine sailors. The Argentine refuge and a nearby uninhabited Chilean hut were destroyed and Argentine sailors were delivered to a vessel of that country on 18 February to South Georgia. A British detachment stayed three months on the island while the frigate patrolled the waters until April.\n\nOn 4 May 1955 the United Kingdom filed two lawsuits against Argentina and Chile respectively, the International Court of Justice in The Hague so this declared the invalidity of claims of sovereignty of the two countries on Antarctic and sub-Antarctic areas. On 15 July 1955, the Chilean Government rejected the jurisdiction of the Court in that case and on 1 August the Argentine Government did the same, by what the demands on 16 March 1956 they were archived.\n\nOn 1 December 1959 was signed the Antarctic Treaty by Argentina, Australia, Belgium, Chile, France, Japan, New Zealand, Norway, South Africa, the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, the United Kingdom and the United States, entering into force on 23 June 1961.\n\nIn the 1960s the State of Argentina, with its fleet, pioneered ecological tourist cruises to Antarctica. At the same time, the Argentine State-owned Aerolineas Argentinas inaugurated passenger flights between Ushuaia and Sydney making scale in Marambio Base. Between the mid-1960s and the first half of the 1970s Argentina launched rockets from its Antarctic bases. These rockets were designed and built entirely in the Argentina and possessed meteorological instrumentation and radiation sensors.\n\nOperación 90 was the first Argentine ground expedition to the South Pole, conducted in 1965, by ten soldiers of the Argentine Army under then-Colonel Jorge Edgard Leal. The operation was named for the target 90 degree South latitude point (the geographic South Pole).\nOn 8 April 1970, the Governor of Tierra del Fuego issued the Decree N ° 149 creating 4 departments, among them the Argentine Antarctic Sector Department.\n\nIn 1977 the Esperanza Base was elected to as the place of filing of Argentine families that traveled at the end of that year to overwinter at the base. The first director of the Argentine Antarctic Institute, general Hernán Pujato, was the forerunner of the installation of the \"Fortín Sargento Cabral\" when on 13 August 1954 he proposed the Argentine Government create a farmhouse out cape Spring to populate it with family groups. The idea had aimed strengthening the Argentine rights in that part of Antarctica. After finishing the construction of the houses, the \"Fortín Sargento Cabral\" was inaugurated on 17 February 1978. Having then 5 houses for families who wintered there that year.\n\nThe first human born in Antarctica was the Argentine Emilio Palma at Esperanza Station in 1978, within the territory claimed by the Argentina. His baptism in the Catholic chapel on 7 January 1978 was the first on the continent.\n\nOn 18 December 2012, the Foreign & Commonwealth Office of the United Kingdom announced that the southern part of British Antarctic Territory (and Argentine Antarctica) has been named \"Queen Elizabeth Land\" in honour of Queen Elizabeth II. Argentina, which lays claim to part of the area, criticised the naming.\n\nIn 2013 the Argentine Defense Ministry announced that Petrel Base will become a permanent base by 2015. The base will have an airport and logistics for transfer of passengers and cargo.\n\nThe geographic structure of the Argentine Antarctica continues some features of the Patagonia, located to the north of it. The highest peaks are located at the south of the Antarctic Peninsula, which has islands and archipelagos nearby. The land is under an ice sheet.\n\nThe climate of the region ranges from a subpolar climate in the north to a polar climate in the south. The region has an extremely cold climate with mean temperatures below with frost and snowfall occurring throughout the year. In general, there are two different climatic zones found within the region: a glacial climate in the interior and an oceanic one in the Antarctic Peninsula and adjacent islands. The glacial climate found in the interior is dominated by continental ice sheets and glaciers while in the Antarctic Peninsula and its adjacent islands, the climate is characterized by very strong winds, particularly in winter. In particular, the Antarctic Peninsula experiences strong cold winds and blizzards. In the interior of the continent, the climate is colder and drier due to the higher latitude, altitude, and strong continental influences. Mean annual temperatures range from between in the Antarctic Peninsula to in the interior. Temperatures are always low in the region; during the polar night in winter, temperatures drop down to . In the warmest month, mean temperatures are usually below . Coastal areas have mean temperatures in the warmest month at around freezing. Precipitation mainly falls as snow. Due to the ice sheets and glaciers covering most of the region and the severity of the climate, the flora is sparse and limited only to coastal areas.\n\nThe flag of Argentine Antarctica was adopted in 1999, after being designed by an Argentine architect Teresa Beatriz Martinez, who herself hailed from the province of Entre Ríos. The flag was nicknamed the Albatross, wherein the orange portion reflected the geography of Tierra del Fuego province, and the blue symbolizes the sky and sea surrounding the province, while the Southern Cross reflects the night sky and the albatross itself is a local bird that represents freedom through flight.\n\nEsperanza and Marambio are the biggest Argentine bases, holding together 70 buildings, an average of 110 people during the winter, and over a maximum of 250 during the summer. Orcadas Base, located at the South Orkney Islands off the Antarctic mainland (see map, right), was the world's first base in the Antarctic region, operating continuously since 1903. The southernmost Argentine permanent base is Belgrano II, at over 77 degrees south. Another site, Belgrano III, was closed in 1984 due to deterioration of the ice barrier. The southernmost summer base is Sobral, at from \"Belgrano II\".\n\nThe bases are supplied by the ships: \"Puerto Deseado\", \"Suboficial Castillo\", and \"Almirante Irizar\", and by C-130 Hercules and DHC-6 Twin Otter aircraft.\n\n\n\n\nArgentine Antarctic claims are based on historical and geological considerations: Argentina's continued human presence since 1904, and the proximity to the South American continental part of Argentina. The exercise of sovereignty over Argentine Antarctica made effective in all aspects that are not limited by the signing of the Antarctic Treaty in 1959.\n\nAccording to historical claims, the Argentine presence in the section began during the first decade of the 20th century; though some even affirm that it took place by the end of the previous century. However, navigators from other countries claimed the discovery of Antarctica for themselves. By the end of the 20th century the aid lent by Argentina to foreign expeditions, in particular that of Nordenskiöld, Gerlache and Charcot, was properly appreciated. This included the assignment of Argentine place names to Antarctic geographic features, such as the Argentine Islands, Uruguay Islands, General Roca, Quintana, and others.\n\nIn 1904, the permanent occupation began with the opening of Orcadas Base on Laurie Island just off the Antarctic mainland. Argentina was the only nation to have an Antarctic base for 40 years until the British built a base on the same islands.\n\nArgentina bases its claims on this sector of Antarctica on the following grounds:\n\nArgentina's claim to the Antarctic Peninsula overlaps with the Antarctic claims of Chile, 53°W to 90°W, and the UK claims, 20°W to 80°W.\n\nCurrently, there are no attempts by Argentina or any other country to enforce territorial claims in Antarctica. See List of Antarctic territorial claims.\n\nNone of these claims have international recognition and have been suspended by the Antarctic Treaty in 1961.\n\nIn 1978, the first Antarctic baby was born in the \"Fortín Sargento Cabral\" at the Esperanza Base under the name Emilio Palma. María de las Nieves Delgado was the first Antarctic girl, born on 27 March 1978 at Esperanza Base. For 1980 were over six children born in the base: Rubén Eduardo de Carli (21 September 1979), Francisco Javier Sosa (21 September 1979), Silvina Analía Arnouil (14 January 1980), Jose Manuel Valladares Solis (24 January 1980), Lucas Daniel Posse (4 February 1980) and Maria Sol Cosenza (3 May 1983). The base has an Argentine civil registry office where there have been aforementioned births and weddings.\n\nIn 1991, there were 142 \"permanent residents\" including 19 minors. \"Residents\" are families that live in Antarctica or scientists that have lived for more than two years. They were 121 men and 21 women that lived mostly in the colony of Esperanza and other bases. As of 1998–1999, Argentine Antarctica had a winter population of 165.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853616", "title": "USS Monticello (1859)", "text": "USS Monticello (1859)\n\nThe first USS \"Monticello was a wooden screw-steamer in the Union Navy during the American Civil War. She was named for the home of Thomas Jefferson. She was briefly named Star\" in May 1861.\n\n\"Monticello\" was built at Mystic, Connecticut, in 1859; chartered by the Navy in May 1861; and purchased on 12 September 1861 at New York from H. P. Cromwell & Company, for service in the Atlantic Blockading Squadron, Captain Henry Eagle in command.\n\n\"Monticello\" was renamed \"Star\" on 3 May 1861, but resumed her original name on 23 May. Seeing immediate action, \"Monticello\" relieved in blockading the James River and preventing communication with the Elizabeth River on 2 May, then relieved at Cape Henry on the 8th. She engaged the batteries at Sewell's Point from 10–14 May, then continued blockade duty until steaming up the Rappahannock to Smith's Island on 24 June. Operating with the Army on the James River above Newport News, Virginia on 5 July, she dispersed a body of Confederate cavalry. Often engaging Confederate batteries through the remainder of 1861, she was in the squadron that captured the batteries at Hatteras Inlet on 28–29 August in the first significant Union victory, one which greatly encouraged the North. She drove off Confederates attacking Union soldiers in that area on 5 October.\n\nDeparting Baltimore, Maryland on 25 March 1862 for the blockade of Wilmington, North Carolina, \"Monticello\" sent a boat party to the expedition up Little River on 26 June that destroyed two schooners. She engaged the batteries at New Inlet on 12 July, and took British schooner \"Revere\" off Wilmington on 11 October 1862. After relieving on blockade at Shallow Inlet on 15 November, \"Monticello\" destroyed British schooners \"Ariel\" and \"Ann\" there the 24th.\n\n\"Monticello\" operated around Little River through 1863, taking British schooner \"Sun\" on 30 March, and steamer \"Old Fellow\" on 15 April. She joined the expedition to Murrell's Inlet on 25 April, and shelled a schooner there on 12 May with . In November, she destroyed salt works near Little River Inlet.\n\nReturning to the Wilmington blockade in January 1864, she joined in the expedition to Smithville, North Carolina (now the town of Southport) on 29 February, capturing Captain Patrick Kelly of General Louis Hebert’s staff. In July, she joined in the chase after , and on 24 August attacked Confederate batteries at Masonboro Inlet.\n\n\"Monticello\" participated in the attacks on Fort Fisher on 24–25 December and on 13–14 January 1865. She took the surrender of Fort Casswell on 18–19 January, then participated in the Little River expedition of 4–6 February.\n\nAfter the war, \"Monticello\" decommissioned on 24 July 1865 at Portsmouth, New Hampshire, and was sold at public auction at Boston, Massachusetts to W. H. Lincoln on 1 November. Redocumented for merchant service on 25 July 1866, she served American commerce until foundering off Newfoundland on 29 April 1872.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853618", "title": "Fascine", "text": "Fascine\n\nA fascine is a rough bundle of brushwood or other material used for strengthening an earthen structure, or making a path across uneven or wet terrain. Typical uses are protecting the banks of streams from erosion, covering marshy ground and so on. In war they are often used to create paths for tanks and other vehicles across uneven terrain.\n\nFascine bundles were used in military defences for revetting (shoring up) trenches or ramparts, especially around artillery batteries, or filling in ditches from earlier military actions. They were also used as a visual obstruction, providing cover for sappers and engineers. Military fascine bridges were used on a regular basis by the Romans to cross obstacles. Subsequently, the use of fascines by military engineers continued almost wherever armies were deployed.\n\nFirst World War tanks, namely the British Mark IV, started the practice of carrying fascines on the roof, to be deployed to fill trenches that would otherwise be an obstacle to the tank. These were constructed from the traditional bundles of brushwood used to make fascines since Roman times. Although these were cumbersome to deploy they proved an effective gap crossing device and were used widely by the tanks of the day that weighed up to about 30 tons.\n\nIn World War II the use of fascines continued as a gap crossing device and within the British Army these were launched from the Churchill AVRE - a Royal Engineer derivative of the standard Churchill tank (40 tons).\n\nThe Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) pre-positioned fascines made of metal pipes across the Khalkha River (between Japanese held Manchuria and Mongolia, the USSR's protectorate,) in advance of the IJA's 1939 foray into Mongolia. The use of hollow pipes had been predicated on their ability to allow water flow; the pipes were secured such that they were awash, and the river's unimpeded flow initially hid the fascines from Soviet reconnaissance aircraft. While these fascines were designed for stealth rather than combat deployment and were not deployed via armoured vehicles, the use of hollow pipes as fascines was a significant step forward.\n\nThe pipe fascine was further developed in the British Army in the early 1980s to meet the challenges of assuring the mobility of movement in West Germany in the event of a NATO conflict with the Warsaw Pact.\nThe majority of obstacles to mobility in West Germany run north–south, and movement by military forces would have been east–west. Within the area of operation of the British Army, near Hannover, there is a significant number of smaller gaps, mainly drainage ditches, streams and small rivers approximately 5–10 m wide and 1.5 – 2.5 m deep that are sufficient to stop armoured vehicles. Given the low number of AVLBs available, a solution was needed to bridge these gaps quickly and cheaply and under fire. In earlier wars, wooden fascines had been used, but these were ineffective for use with the much heavier modern vehicles, some of which weighed up to 70 tons.\n\nThe Royal Engineers Experimental Establishment at Christchurch did initial tests on the possible use of 9-inch high-density plastic pipes held together with chains. These would allow water flow, and not be damaged with the higher modern vehicle weight. Further development was done by Lt C Roebuck RE and his troop, 5 Troop, 31 Armoured Engineer Squadron, 32 Armoured Engineer Regiment at Munsterlager, North Germany in 1981/2, to enable full acceptance and provide user instructions for operational use. This development involved testing in different gaps and conditions, eg concrete line canals to earth banked rural field drainage channels, possibility of multiple fascine use in a single gap and launch testing both day, night and in limited visibility. During the trials the development team drivers became skilled at the launching of the fascine and were able to launch two or even 3 fascines into a single gap. However for regular operational use by less skilled crews it was recommended that only single fascines should be used as the use of 2nd or 3rd fascines required the launch vehicle to launch the subsequent fascine whilst on the potentially unstable first fascine. This required a perfect launch to ensure the second fascine was quickly in place to make the first fascine stable and held in position. If this did not happen there was potentially significant risk to the launch vehicle and crew especially in water filled gaps. \nA launch technique was developed: approach the target gap at speed, line up onto alignment/ launch markers, drive over first marker then brake sharply at second marked point and fire the explosive bolts holding the travel hawsers so that the fascine, through inertia, rolled off the directly into the middle of the gap. When in position, they travel over it to level the road surface for other vehicles to cross. This whole process would take less than 1 minute, essential for an assault crossing possibly under fire.\nThe fascine was subsequently accepted into service and used successfully in a number of operational and non-operational roles using the Centurion AVRE, a Centurion tank derivative with a bulldozer blade and 165mm demolition gun fitted. It was used in combat for the first time during the First Iraq war to breach anti tank ditches. The British Army now use the Trojan, based on the Challenger 2 tank, to carry and deploy pipe fascines.\n\n\n\"Fascines as Ecojewels of the Landscape. Louis Laframboise. Biodynamic Association. https://www.biodynamics.com/blog/fascines-ecojewels-landscape\n"}
{"id": "1853620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853620", "title": "Upstate Eight Conference", "text": "Upstate Eight Conference\n\nThe Upstate Eight Conference (\"UEC\", \"U8C\", or \"Upstate 8\") is an organization of ten high schools in northeastern Illinois, representing ten communities in Chicago's suburbs. These high schools are all members of the Illinois High School Association. \n\nThe high schools of the Upstate Eight Conference are located in Kane County, Cook County, and DuPage County. Originally, the conference had eight member schools, but over time the membership has varied from six to as many as sixteen schools without any change of name.\n\nFormed in 1963 its charter members were DeKalb High School, East Aurora High School, Elgin High School, Larkin High School, Glenbard East High School, Naperville Community, West Aurora High School and Wheaton Community high schools. That next year Wheaton Community was renamed Wheaton Central when the district split. In 1965 Glenbard East left to join the Des Plaines Valley League and was replaced by St. Charles High School. Naperville Community and Wheaton Central left in 1975 to join the newly formed DuPage Valley Conference. Lake Park High School and newly opened Streamwood High School were added in 1979, which led to a stable lineup for the next 12 years.\n\nWaubonsie Valley High School, located in Aurora, joined in 1991. West Aurora High School left in 1997 to join the DuPage Valley Conference. Newly opened schools Bartlett High School and Neuqua Valley High School located in Naperville joined in 1998. St. Charles High School split into St. Charles East and St. Charles North in 2000, with St. Charles North joining in 2001. South Elgin High School joined upon opening in 2005, preemptively taking DeKalb's place, as they left in 2006. Batavia High School and Geneva High School joined in 2010 following the dissolution of the Western Sun Conference, and joined newly opened Metea Valley High School in Aurora to bring conference membership to 14 schools.\nLake Park left the conference to join the DuPage Valley Conference for the 2013–2014 season and was replaced by West Chicago. Glenbard East High School and West Aurora High School will return to the Upstate Eight Conference for the 2014-2015 athletic season, leaving the DuPage Valley Conference. For the 2015-2016 athletic season, Metea Valley High School, Neuqua Valley High School, and Waubonsie Valley High School leave the Upstate Eight conference for the DuPage Valley Conference. Starting in the 2018–2019 school year, St. Charles North, St. Charles East, Batavia, and Geneva will leave for the newly formed DuKane Conference along with Wheaton North, Wheaton Warrenville South, Glenbard North, and Lake Park from the DuPage Valley Conference while new member, Glenbard South High School joins in and the River and Valley Divisions became eliminated.\n\nIn 2019–2020 school year, Fenton will replace West Aurora when accepting to leave the conference for the Southwest Prairie Conference.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Naperville Community HS split into Naperville Central HS and Naperville North HS (which had no connection with the conference) in 1970.<br>\n<nowiki>**</nowiki> School renamed Wheaton Warrenville South HS in 1992.\n\n<nowiki>***</nowiki> In 2000, St. Charles HS renamed St. Charles East when St. Charles North opened in 2001\n\nThe conference currently oversees a total of 17 sports. Young men and women may compete in basketball, bowling, Dance, cheerleading, cross country, chess, golf, gymnastics, soccer, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field, speech, and volleyball. Young men may compete in baseball, football, and wrestling, while young women may compete in badminton and softball.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853631", "title": "Jan Jakub Zamoyski", "text": "Jan Jakub Zamoyski\n\nJan Jakub Graf Zamoyski (22 July 1716 – 10 February 1790) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), known as the brother-in-law of king Stanisław August Poniatowski.\n\nJan became the 9th Ordynat (\"IX ordynat\") of Zamość estate in or until 1780. He was voivode of Podole Voivodeship (\"wojewoda podolski\") in 1770 and starost of Lublin (\"starosta lubelski\"). Knight of the Order of the White Eagle, awarded on 8 May 1768.\n\nJan married in 1745 Ludwika Maria Poniatowska, by whom she had one child, the daughter Urszula Zamoyska (c. or bef. 1750–1808). \n"}
{"id": "1853633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853633", "title": "Freddy Rodriguez (actor)", "text": "Freddy Rodriguez (actor)\n\nFreddy Rodriguez (born January 17, 1975) is an American actor known for playing the characters Hector Federico \"Rico\" Diaz on HBO's \"Six Feet Under\" and El Wray in Robert Rodriguez's \"Planet Terror\". In 2007 he was a recurring cast member on the series \"Ugly Betty\" as Giovanni \"Gio\" Rossi. He starred as Dr. Michael Ragosa in the first two seasons of the NBC drama \"The Night Shift\" (2014–15). In 2016, Rodriguez became a main cast member in the CBS courtroom drama \"Bull\".\n\nRodriguez was born in Chicago, Illinois, to Puerto Rican parents - a housewife mother and a janitor father. He was raised Roman Catholic in Chicago's Bucktown neighborhood. When he was 13, Freddy discovered a theater program for inner-city youth, which led to a scholarship to the Pulaski International School of Chicago, which he attended through 8th grade.\n\nHis first recognizable roles in films came in 1995, as Pedro Aragon, Jr., in \"A Walk in the Clouds\" with Keanu Reeves and Giancarlo Giannini and as a Vietnam veteran in \"Dead Presidents\" with Larenz Tate and Chris Tucker. Rodriguez went on to roles such as Ninja in \"The Pest\", an obnoxious jock in \"Can't Hardly Wait\" and Carla's brother Marco on \"Scrubs\". As a voice actor, he contributed the voice of Más y Menos on \"Teen Titans\".\n\nRodriguez portrayed Federico Diaz on the hit HBO series \"Six Feet Under\" throughout its five seasons. For this role he received two Screen Actors Guild Awards for Best Ensemble in a Drama Series, an Emmy nomination for Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series, and a further three SAG nominations (also in the ensemble category).\n\nIn 2005, Rodriguez played a vicious inner city drug dealer named Hector in the movie \"Havoc\", and a jockey in the film \"Dreamer\", co-starring Dakota Fanning. In 2006, appeared in the film \"Poseidon\", as a waiter, as well as played Reggie, a character who only exercised one half of his body, in M. Night Shyamalan's film \"Lady in the Water\", and starred alongside Eva Longoria and Christian Bale in \"Harsh Times\", his first leading role in a major theatrical release. He was seen in an episode of the hit hospital television show \"ER\", where he played a dying comic inspired by Bill Hicks.\nRodriguez starred alongside Roselyn Sanchez in the 2003 movie \"Chasing Papi\", playing \"Victor\" (directed by Linda Mendoza). He played busboy José Rojas in the 2006 film \"Bobby\". He starred as El Wray in \"Planet Terror\", Robert Rodriguez's portion of the double-feature film, \"Grindhouse\" (2007), and played the role of Gustavo Brambila in the true-life story \"Bottle Shock\" (2008). He appeared in the music video for the Santana song \"Into the Night\" and also made a cameo appearance as a pilot/flight attendant in the music video for the song \"Glamorous\" by Fergie. He starred in the popular video game \"Saints Row\" as the voice of Angelo Lopez and in the latest Merry Mixit Gap Christmas Commercial videos.\n\nOn July 13, 2007, Rodriguez was added to the cast of the ABC comedy series \"Ugly Betty\", in which he played Giovanni Rossi, a sandwich shop owner who became the love interest for Betty Suarez (played by America Ferrera). He made his debut on the series at the start of the second season, appeared in an episode of the third season and reprised the role again late in the fourth season.\n\nHe played the character of CIA special operative Rick Martinez on the CBS show \"CHAOS\". He also starred in the NBC summer series \"The Night Shift\" as Michael Ragosa.\n\nSince 2016, Rodriguez has starred as attorney and former New York City prosecutor Benny Colón in the CBS courtroom drama \"Bull\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853635", "title": "Russian guitar", "text": "Russian guitar\n\nThe Russian guitar (sometimes referred to as a \"Gypsy guitar\") is an acoustic seven-string guitar that was developed in Russia toward the end of the 18th century: it shares most of its organological features with the Spanish guitar, although some historians insist on English guitar ascendancy. It is known in Russian as the \"semistrunnaya gitara\" (семиструнная гитара), or affectionately as the \"semistrunka\" (семиструнка), which translates to \"seven-stringer\". These guitars are most commonly tuned to an open G chord as follows: . In classical literature, the lowest string (D) occasionally is tuned down to the C.\n\nAlthough in a number of sources the invention of the Russian guitar is attributed to Andrei Sychra (1773–1850), there are strong reasons to believe that the instrument was already in use when Sychra began his career. It is true that Sychra was very influential in creating the school of Russian guitar playing. He left over a thousand compositions, seventy-five of which were republished in the 1840s by Stellovsky, and then again in the 1880s by Gutheil. Some of these were published yet again in the Soviet Union in 1926.\n\nThe Russian version of the seven-string guitar has been used by professionals because of its great flexibility, but has also been popular with amateurs for accompaniment (especially Russian bards) due to the relative simplicity of some basic chords and the ease of playing alternating bass lines.\n\nConstruction of the Russian is very similar to that of the western 6-string guitar except for the additional string. The same basic components are present: headstock; nut; tuners; neck; fingerboard; frets; inlays; truss rod (in modern instruments); heel; body; bridge & bridge saddle; soundboard (top); sound hole and rosette; back; sides; strings. Woods used and internal bracing layouts are also similar.\n\nThere are two basic types of Russian guitar: the \"classical\" model and the \"gypsy\" model. The classical model closely resembles the western 6-string classical guitar, and has nylon or gut strings. The gypsy model is steel strung, and resembles the western 6-string steel-string acoustic guitar, although more size and shape variations are found among gypsy guitars.\n\nA two-necked version of the Russian guitar was also once popular; these guitars usually had 11 or 12 strings—one neck with seven fretted strings, and another with four or five unfretted strings. There are also some rare specimens that were built with an oval body.\n\nThe head or \"headstock\" is located at the end of the guitar neck farthest from the body. Modern instruments are fitted with machine head tuners, though older instruments (particularly from the 19th century) sometimes used friction pegs. The traditional tuner layout is \"4+3\", with four tuners on the bass-string side of the head and three on the treble string side. The nut is a small strip traditionally of bone, but plastic, brass, and other materials are also sometimes seen.\n\nHeadstock, fingerboard (fretboard), and truss rod (if present), all attached to a long wooden extension which collectively constitutes the neck. The wood used to make the fretboard usually differs from the wood in the rest of the neck. The neck joint or heel is the point at which the neck is attached to the body of the guitar.\n\nThe fingerboard is made of hardwood (ebony or rosewood are common), fitted with metal frets of brass or steel. Fret spacing almost always follows the western twelve tone equal temperament (12-tet) system. The surface of the fingerboard may be flat or curved slightly (\"radiused\"), although the curve on the Russian guitar is usually somewhat less than that of an equivalent western 6-string guitar. Inlayed position markers are common, and appear in the same locations as 6-string guitars (e.g., typically the 5th, 7th, 9th, and 12th frets, among others).\n\nThe sound board is usually made of spruce or cedar, and sized and shaped much like that of the 6-string guitar. Overall proportions of classical seven string instruments nylon string) are similar to those of 6-string guitars. \"Gypsy\" instruments (steel string) may be proportioned similarly, but also may often feature a narrower upper bout, and an enlarged sound hole. Both traditionally shaped instruments and instruments with cut-away bodies are available.\n\nThe bridge is made of a hardwood similar to that used for the fingerboard, and the bridge saddle is usually bone or sometimes plastic; on old instruments, ivory was sometimes used.\n\nA pickguard, or \"scratchplate\"—usually a piece of laminated plastic—is frequently found on steel-string \"gypsy\" instruments; on nylon-string classical instruments it is usually lacking.\n\nAs noted above, Russian guitars may have either nylon (or equivalent non-metal) strings, or steel (or equivalent metal) strings, depending on whether the instrument is a classical or gypsy guitar. On classical instruments the four lower pitched strings are generally wound, and the three higher strings are of plain material. On gypsy instruments five strings are wound, and the top two are plain.\n\nProportions of Russian guitars typically do not differ greatly from those of western 6-string instruments. Since the range of both types of instrument are comparable, this makes acoustical sense. One notable physical difference, however, concerns string spacing: since Russian guitars have essentially the same neck width as 6-string guitars, the 7 strings on the Russian instruments are necessarily closer together.\n\nLeft-handed Russian guitars exist, but are extremely rare.\n\nTraditionally, Russian and Spanish guitars are tuned differently. On the Spanish guitar the open-string chord is an Em11, while on the Russian guitar it is a G-major. While the Spanish guitar is tuned in fourths with one (major) third (G–B), the Russian guitar is tuned in thirds (G–B, B–D, G–B, and B–D) with two fourths (D–G, and D–G):\n\nThis tuning is thought to have been derived either from the baroque cittern (of the English guitar type), or might be from that of the torban, a Ukrainian variety of theorbo, as one of its tunings was also based on major triads. \n<br>Nevertheless, major guitar historians insist that the Russian 7-string tuning was invented in 1793 by Sychra, acknowledged harpist of the 18th century, in order to adapt a harp tuning for guitar, and facilitate the playing of harp-like arpeggios.\n\nThe Russian guitar is traditionally played without a pick, using fingers for either strumming or picking.\n\nThe open G tuning allows major chords to be played with only one finger of the fretting hand (the left hand for right-handed guitars), as barre chords. The A-major chord can be played most easily as a barré on the second fret, the B major as a barré on the fourth, C major on the fifth, D major on the seventh, and so on (although other, more involved major shapes are employed as well for a variation in voicing). A fair amount of open-G chord shapes use six or five strings, and so these shapes require the player to mute or not play particular strings.\n\nPerhaps the most audible difference between the Spanish and Russian tunings is in the ability to play chords with a tighter, more piano-like voicing on the latter. For example, an E-minor chord on a Spanish guitar (as 022000) is usually played in the order, from low to high, of \"E (root), B (fifth), E (root), G (minor third), B (fifth)\" and again \"E (root)\". On a Russian guitar it is possible to play the E minor (2002002) as \"E (root), G (minor third), B (fifth), E (root), G (minor third), B (fifth),\" and \"E (root)\" — or to play it with the same voicing as the six string E minor (using 99X9989).\n\nThis tighter voicing is particularly audible with seventh chords, including the rootless seventh chord (seventh chords without a root note, actually a diminished chord).\n\nIt is fairly common for Russian guitar players (particularly those accompanying themselves singing, such as bards) to bring the tuning up or down several steps as desired, either to accommodate the voice or for varying string tension. Vladimir Vysotsky often tuned down a whole step, sometimes even a step and a half to an open E. Also, variations in the open G tuning were fairly common, e.g., Bulat Okudzhava would use the tuning of to play songs written in C, while bard Sergey Nikitin tuned his guitar to an open G minor: .\n\nThere are more than 1,000 different chords possible for the standard open G tuning and plenty of different schools for left hand (vibrato) and right hand (fingerstyle playing) and enormous classical music musical transposition archives and music composed for Russian 7-string guitar for 200 years in Russia. Because much of this music was published during the years of the Soviet Union, little of it left Russia, and printed scores of music for Russian guitar are difficult to come by in Europe or North America.\n\nThe first known written instruction for 7-string guitar was published in St. Petersburg, Russia in the year 1798, December, 15th. (15.12.1798), written by Ignaz Held (1766, Bohemia – 1816, Russia).\n\nA common practice for six string guitar players of Russian romances and bard music is to retune their guitars using variations of the seven string tuning, such as: \nand so on.\n\nFor many years, the seven-string guitar was far more popular in Russia than the regular six-string Spanish guitar; the latter was a rarity in Russia before the revolution of 1917. The Russian guitar gained significant popularity in the latter half of the 19th century with the increasing popularity of guitar oriented \"city romance\" songs.\n\nThe six-string first came to serious prominence in the Russian classical guitar world when Andrés Segovia toured Soviet Russia in 1926. Possibly looking for something new and exciting to give life to their repressed craft, many Russian classical guitarists began making a switch to the six-string and the EADGBE tuning. Classical guitarist Piotr Agafoshin made the switch, and wrote a Russian book on six string technique that remains a standard to this day.\n\nThe Russian guitar remained the standard for popular musicians until the 1960s, when a strong interest in underground music such as jazz and Western rock groups such as the Beatles and Elvis Presley developed.\n\nHowever, the parallel emergence of Russian bard music, which relied heavily on popular Russian guitar technique used in \"urban romances,\" kept the seven-string guitar relevant. Actor Vladimir Vysotsky, arguably Russia's most prominent bard, retained his monogamous relationship with the seven string up to his death in 1980. Pioneering bard Bulat Okudjava switched to the six string in the early 1990s, but continued tuning it in open G (skipping the middle D).\n\nThanks to the \"bard boom\" and cheap factory production, a Russian guitar could be bought new for as little as 12 rubles in the 1970s. Soviet factories continued to manufacture the seven string exclusively for quite a long time before making a gradual switchover to accommodate the demand for six string guitars in the mid to late 1970s. Prior to that, western pop and rock oriented guitarists had a tradition of modifying cheap factory made Soviet seven string guitars to six strings (or sometimes to bass guitars) and retuning them to the EADGBE tuning.\n\nConversely, Russian emigre guitarists living in western countries, where only six string guitars were available, have been known to modify six string (and sometimes twelve string) acoustic guitars to seven string instruments, in order to better play their favorite Russian songs.\n\nRecently, the repertoire for the Russian guitar has been the subject of a new scholarly examination and has seen increased performance due to the work of Oleg Timofeyev, who has unearthed and recorded works by the composer Matvei Pavlov-Azancheev (1888−1963).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853636", "title": "Teenage Zombies", "text": "Teenage Zombies\n\nTeenage Zombies is a 1959 American science-fiction horror film written and directed by Jerry Warren and starring Katherine Victor, Don Sullivan, Chuck Niles, and Warren's then-wife and production manager Brianne Murphy. Warren even wrote the screenplay for the film under his pen name Jacques Lecoutier (which he frequently misspelled in the credits). Film historian Bill Warren wrote \"This dreadful, leaden and depressingly cheap film does have one unusual aspect... it was actually made by Jerry Warren in its entirety.\"\n\nThe film is about a group of teenagers who are marooned on an island inhabited by a female mad scientist, her pet gorilla and a zombie slave named Ivan. She traps the kids in a cage down in her laboratory, plotting to use them as subjects for her zombie-making experimentation, so she can test out a drug she is working on for an unnamed foreign nation.\n\nAlthough the film's credits include a 1957 copyright statement for G.B.M. Productions, the film was never registered for copyright. \n\nWhile taking their boat out for some water-skiing, a quartet of teens named Reg (Don Sullivan), Skip (Paul Pepper), Julie (Mitzie Albertson), and Pam (Brianne Murphy) accidentally discover an island run by a mad scientist named Doctor Myra (Katherine Victor) who, backed by foreign agents from \"the East\", intends to turn everyone in the United States into mindlessly obedient zombies.\n\nThe teenagers are captured by the hulking, bearded zombie Ivan (Chuck Niles) and imprisoned in cages down in Myra's basement, but the boys manage to escape, planning to find a way off the island and then come back to rescue the girls. When a couple of their young friends arrive with the local sheriff to save them, he turns out to be in league with Myra and has been supplying her with victims for her experiments.\n\nA complicated fight scene serves as the climax, in which a previously zombified gorilla arrives just in time to attack Myra's henchmen and allow the teens to escape. They find Myra attempting to steal their boat and manage to capture her for the police. After they are safely back on the mainland and the proper authorities informed, it is implied that the teens will receive a reward for discovering the island and will have an audience with the President of the United States.\n\n\nActress Katharine Victor said Jerry Warren \"discovered\" her when they met by chance as he was preparing \"Teenage Zombies\" in mid-1957. She was surprised that he gave her almost no directorial help while they were making the film. Evan Hayworth (listed in the cast as Mitch Evans) said he played the gorilla wearing a cheap rental costume.\n\nFamed L.A. disc jockey Chuck Niles appeared as Ivan the Zombie in the film. He later said \"\"I was just walking around like Frankenstein, that's all, no lines, just 'gluergugluergu,' and I'm pretty good at that...the movie was just terrible\". Bruce Eder of Rovi wrote that lead actor Don Sullivan also appeared in two other 1950's cult films, \"The Giant Gila Monster\" and \"The Monster of Piedras Blancas\".\nThe film's poster promised \"Young Pawns Thrust into Pulsating Cages of Horror in a Sadistic Experiment\", but film historian Bill Warren said \"It's doubtful anyone expected much more than the dreck they got...it's not just bad, it's terrible\".\n\nWhile the American Film Institute states that the film was released in April 1960 at the same time as \"The Incredible Petrified World\", Bill Warren in his book \"Keep Watching the Skies\" states that the film was released in December, 1959 on a double bill with \"The Incredible Petrified World\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1853637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853637", "title": "Grand Mosque (Dubai)", "text": "Grand Mosque (Dubai)\n\nThe Grand Mosque () is a mosque in Dubai, Emirate of Dubai, United Arab Emirates. It is located between the textile souk and the Dubai Museum close to a small stream in the Bur Dubai area. Originally built in 1900, demolished and built again in 1960, it then underwent a further rebuilding in 1998 (the present one). It now holds up to 1,200 worshippers. Non-Muslims are permitted to enter the Mosque daily from Sunday to Thursday from 9am to 1130am for free tours. The mosque is the hub of Dubai’s religious and cultural life.\n\nThe mosque was originally a school devoted to study of the Qur'an, known as a \"kuttab\", which welcomed its first students in the year 1900 to learn the Qur'an by rote. This building was replaced by a new mosque on the same site in 1960, which in turn was itself rebuilt in 1998, closer in style to the original of 1900. This mosque is one of the largest in Dubai and is dominant edifice in the old city.\n\nThe tallest feature of the mosque is the minaret, the tallest in Dubai, which resembles a lighthouse. The sandy-grey walls are generally unadorned, but there is a large Quranic inscription inlaid above the five columns of the entrance facade, which sit at the top of a short flight of six steps. The 45 small and nine larger domes with the tall minaret cover the roof of the Grand Mosque. The wooden windows are fitted with hand-made stained glass and blend well with the old town of Bur Dubai, and its minaret is designed in Anatolian architectural style. Visitors to the mosque are advised to dress conservatively. The mosque has a capacity of up to 1,200 worshippers.\nNearest metro station is Al Fahidi.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853638", "title": "Kendall Windham", "text": "Kendall Windham\n\nKendell Wayne Windham (born December 15, 1967) is an American retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Kendall Windham. He is the son of Blackjack Mulligan and the brother of Barry Windham. He is best known for his appearances with World Championship Wrestling.\n\nKendall Windham started wrestling in 1985 for Championship Wrestling from Florida. He was very skinny but had the same moves and looks as his older brother, Barry. In his early days, he was a good guy (face) and teamed with Barry to feud with Ron Bass, Jack Hart and Kevin Sullivan's \"cult\". His biggest singles feuds were with White Ninja AKA Great Muta and The Cuban Assassin. He traded the Florida Heavyweight Title a few times with each of them.\n\nIn 1987, he ventured to the NWA's Jim Crockett Promotions where he teamed with The Italian Stallion and feuded with the MOD Squad, Spike & Basher. He never got above preliminary status and went to WCCW briefly at the end of 1988. In January 1989, he was back in the NWA teaming with another second generation wrestler, Dustin Rhodes, as the \"Texas Broncos\". In a match aired on January 28, 1989, Kendall teamed with Eddie Gilbert against his brother Barry and James J. Dillon of the Four Horsemen. Kendall turned on Gilbert and joined Barry and held up the four fingers to the camera. Before the next show, Dillon left for the WWF and the Horsemen name was dropped. The Windhams and Flair were given a new manager, Hiro Matsuda, and a new stable name, \"Yamasaki Corporation\". Kendall stayed with the stable (which grew to include Butch Reed and Michael Hayes) until the summer, when he left for Florida again.\n\nOn June 27, 1989, Windham won the FCW Heavyweight Championship from Dustin Rhodes. He obtained a new manager, Oliver Humperdink, and feuded with Rhodes. He soon left Humperdink for Robert Fuller's Stud Stable and by the end of 1989, was a member of Ron Slinker's \"Strike Command\". In 1990, he left Slinker and teamed with Fuller to win the Tag Team Titles, Upon losing them, they split and feuded.\n\nWindham returned to wrestling in 1992 for Florida's ICWA promotion where he feuded with Pat Tanaka. He had put on some more weight in prison and was considered a heavyweight instead of a light heavyweight. He teamed with Dan Spivey for a tour of All Japan Pro Wrestling and spent a little time in WCW in 1994 and ECW in 1995.\n\nWindham returned to WCW in 1997 with his head shaved and feuded with Chris Adams and Jim Duggan. In 1999, when WCW created a hardcore division, he entered it briefly and feuded with Hardcore Hak. In June, Windham joined The West Texas Rednecks in what would be the biggest push of his career. The Rednecks were his brother Barry, Curt Hennig and Bobby Duncum Jr.. They were supposed to be heels feuding with Master P's rappers, the \"No Limit Soldiers\", but the southern fans of WCW cheered the Rednecks instead. The angle was quickly dropped and they moved on to a feud with \"Harlem Heat\" (Booker T and Stevie Ray). Kendall and Barry defeated Harlem Heat for the WCW World Tag Team Title's but lost them back to Harlem Heat three weeks later.\n\nBy the end of 1999, they all had left WCW and Kendall worked for Ted DiBiase's promotion WXO, WWC (where he won the tag title with Barry) and All Japan Pro Wrestling where he closed out his career tagging with his brother Barry in the AJPW Real World Tag League 2000. Kendall Windhams last match took place on December 16, 2000 where he and his brother Barry Windham lost the WWC Tag Team Titles to the team of Thunder 'N' Lightning.\n\nWindham retired in 2002.\n\nMike Rotunda is married to Windham's sister. His nephews, Windham and Taylor, wrestle for WWE as Bray Wyatt and Bo Dallas respectively. He has a son named Wyatt. He is currently President of a security business in Brandon, Florida.\n\nIn 1990, Kendall Windham and his father Blackjack Mulligan were arrested by the US Secret Service in a joint investigation with the Florida Department of Law Enforcement (FDLE) for counterfeiting. The authorities found close to $500,000 in phony $20 bills. As a result of a plea agreement, both father and son spent 24 months in a federal prison and were released in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853639", "title": "Grammichele", "text": "Grammichele\n\nGrammichele (, Greek: \"Echetle\" (meaning \"plowshare\"); Latin: \"Echetla\", \"Ochula\"; Medieval: \"Occhiolà\") is a town and \"comune\" in the Metropolitan City of Catania in Sicily, southern Italy. It is located at the feet of the Hyblaean Mountains, some from Caltagirone.\n\nThe town was built in 1693, after the destruction by an earthquake of the old town of Occhialà, located to the north of the modern Grammichele. Occhialà, which, on account of the similarity of name, is generally identified with Echetla, a frontier city between Syracusan and Carthaginian territory in the time of Hiero II, and which appears to have been originally a Sicel city in which Greek civilization prevailed from the 5th century onwards. Being laid out on a hexagonal street plan, it is one of several Val di Noto towns with distinctive layouts.\n\nOn July 15, 1943, the 1st Canadian Infantry Division fought its first battle with the Germans in Operation \"Husky\" with elements of Panzer Division \"Hermann Goring\" The Hastings and Prince Edward Regiment, Saskatoon Light Infantry (Machine Gun) and the Three Rivers Regiment (tank) all took part in the fighting which concluded at midday with the town in Canadian hands. \n\nTo the east of Grammichele a cave shrine of Demeter, with fine votive terracottas, has been discovered. Other sights include the Mother Church, dedicated to St. Michael, and the church of the Calvary.\n"}
{"id": "1853642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853642", "title": "Water damage", "text": "Water damage\n\nWater damage describes various possible losses caused by water intruding where it will enable attack of a material or system by destructive processes such as rotting of wood, mold growth, bacteria growth, rusting of steel, swelling of composite woods, de-laminating of materials such as plywood, and many others.\n\nThe damage may be imperceptibly slow and minor such as water spots that could eventually mar a surface, or it may be instantaneous and catastrophic such as flooding. However fast it occurs, water damage is a major contributor to loss of property.\n\nAn insurance policy may or may not cover the costs associated with water damage and the process of water damage restoration. While a common cause of residential water damage is often the failure of a sump pump, many homeowner's insurance policies do not cover the associated costs without an addendum which adds to the monthly premium of the policy. Often the verbiage of this addendum is similar to \"Sewer and Drain Coverage\".\n\nIn the United States, those individuals who are affected by wide-scale flooding may have the ability to apply for government and FEMA grants through the Individual Assistance program. On a larger level, businesses, cities, and communities can apply to the FEMA Public Assistance program for funds to assist after a large flood. For example, the city of Fond du Lac Wisconsin received $1.2 million FEMA grant after flooding in June 2008. The program allows the city to purchase the water damaged properties, demolish the structures, and turn the former land into public green space.\n\nWater damage can originate by different sources such as a broken dishwasher hose, a washing machine overflow, a dishwasher leakage, broken/leaking pipes, flood waters, groundwater seepage, building envelope failures (leaking roof, windows, doors, siding, etc.) and clogged toilets. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, 13.7% of all water used in the home today can be attributed to plumbing leaks. On average that is approximately 10,000 gallons of water per year wasted by leaks for each US home. A tiny, 1/8-inch crack in a pipe can release up to 250 gallons of water a day. According to \"Claims Magazine\" in August 2000, broken water pipes ranked second to hurricanes in terms of both the number of homes damaged and the amount of claims (on average $50,000 per insurance claim) costs in the US. Experts suggest that homeowners inspect and replace worn pipe fittings and hose connections to all household appliances that use water at least once a year. This includes washing machines, dishwashers, kitchen sinks and bathroom lavatories, refrigerator icemakers, water softeners and humidifiers. A few US companies offer whole-house leak protection systems utilizing flow-based technologies. A number of insurance companies offer policy holders reduced rates for installing a whole-house leak protection system.\n\nAs far as insurance coverage is concerned, most damage caused by bad weather is considered flood damage and normally is not covered under homeowners insurance. Coverage for bad weather would usually require flood insurance.\n\nThere are three basic categories of water damage, based on the level of contamination. \n\nCategory 1 Water - Refers to a source of water that does not pose substantial threat to humans and classified as \"clean water\". Examples are broken water supply lines, tub or sink overflows or appliance malfunctions that involves water supply lines.\n\nCategory 2 Water - Refers to a source of water that contains a significant degree of chemical, biological or physical contaminants and causes discomfort or sickness when consumed or even exposed to. Known as \"grey water\". This type carries microorganisms and nutrients of micro-organisms. Examples are toilet bowls with urine (no feces), sump pump failures, seepage due to hydrostatic failure and water discharge from dishwashers or washing machines.\n\nCategory 3 Water - Known as \"black water\" and is grossly unsanitary. This water contains unsanitary agents, harmful bacteria and fungi, causing severe discomfort or sickness. Type 3 category are contaminated water sources that affect the indoor environment. This category includes water sources from sewage, seawater, rising water from rivers or streams, ground surface water or standing water. Category 2 Water or Grey Water that is not promptly removed from the structure and or have remained stagnant may be re classified as Category 3 Water. Toilet back flows that originates from beyond the toilet trap is considered black water contamination regardless of visible content or color.\n\nClass of water damage is determined by the probable rate of evaporation based on the type of materials affected, or wet, in the room or space that was flooded. Determining the class of water damage is an important first step, and will determine the amount and type of equipment utilized to dry-down the structure.\n\nClass 1 - Slow Rate of Evaporation. Affects only a portion of a room. Materials have a low permeance/porosity. Minimum moisture is absorbed by the materials. **IICRC s500 2016 update adds that class 1 be indicated when <5% of the total square footage of a room (ceiling+walls+floor) are affected **\n\nClass 2 - Fast Rate of Evaporation. Water affects the entire room of carpet and cushion. May have wicked up the walls, but not more than 24 inches. **IICRC s500 2016 update adds that class 2 be indicated when 5% to 40% of the total square footage of a room (ceiling+walls+floor) are affected **\n\nClass 3 - Fastest Rate of Evaporation. Water generally comes from overhead, affecting the entire area; walls, ceilings, insulation, carpet, cushion, etc. **IICRC s500 2016 update adds that class 3 be indicated when >40% of the total square footage of a room (ceiling+walls+floor) are affected ** \n\nClass 4 - Specialty Drying Situations. Involves materials with a very low permeance/porosity, such as hardwood floors, concrete, crawlspaces, gypcrete, plaster, etc. Drying generally requires very low specific humidity to accomplish drying.\n\nWater damage restoration can be performed by property management teams, building maintenance personnel, or by the homeowners themselves; however, contacting a certified professional water damage restoration specialist is often regarded as the safest way to restore water damaged property.\n\nWhile there are currently no government regulations in the United States dictating procedures, two certifying bodies, the Institute of Inspection Cleaning and Restoration Certification (IICRC) and the RIA, do recommend standards of care. The current IICRC standard is ANSI/IICRC S500-2015. It is the collaborative work of the IICRC, SCRT, IEI, IAQA, and NADCA.\n\nFire and Water Restoration companies are regulated by the appropriate state's Department of Consumer Affairs - usually the state contractors license board. In California, all Fire and Water Restoration companies must register with the California Contractors State License Board. Presently, the California Contractors State License Board has no specific classification for \"water and fire damage restoration.\"\n\nWater damage restoration is often prefaced by a loss assessment and evaluation of affected materials. The damaged area is inspected with water sensing equipment such as probes and other infrared tools in order to determine the source of the damage and possible extent of area affected. Emergency mitigation services are the first order of business. Controlling the source of water, removal of non-salvageable materials, water extraction and pre-cleaning of impacted materials are all part of the mitigation process. Restoration services would then be rendered to the property in order to dry the structure, stabilize building materials, sanitize any affected or cross-contaminated areas, and deodorize all affected areas and materials. After the labor is completed, water damage equipment including air movers, air scrubbers, dehumidifiers, wood floor drying systems, and sub-floor drying equipment is left in the residence. The goal of the drying process is to stabilize the moisture content of impacted materials below 15%, the generally accepted threshold for microbial amplification. Industry standards state that drying vendors should return at regular time intervals, preferably every twenty-four hours, to monitor the equipment, temperature, humidity, and moisture content of the affected walls and contents.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853648", "title": "Mental block", "text": "Mental block\n\nA mental block is an uncontrollable suppression, or repression of painful or unwanted thoughts/memories. It can also be an inability to continue or complete a train of thought, as in the case of writer's block. In the case of writer's block, many find it helpful to take a break and revisit their topic. Another tactic that is used when people with mental blocks are learning new information is repetition. A similar phenomenon occurs when one cannot solve a problem in mathematics which one will normally consider it as simple. Mental blocks can be caused by physical disabilities or simply a lack of focus. Mental blocks are also often used to describe a temporary inability to recall a name or other information. A sudden cessation of speech or a thought process without an immediate observable cause, sometimes can be considered a consequence of repression. Mental blocking can be a coping mechanism for mental illnesses such as hysteria, neurosis, and lack of pathology.\n\nForgetting curve could be associated with mental blocking. The forgetting curve was first described by Ebbinghaus as the natural loss of memory retention over time. Memories can also simply disappear over time from Trace decay which is the weakening of memories over time. This kind of decay stems from both the visual and verbal working memory. Although the triggers decay, some of the information remains stored. Interference is the phenomenon that a memory can be distorted due to the existence of related memories when it comes to retrieval.\n\nAssociative blocking is explained as the effects of an interference during a retrieval. Associative blocking can be caused by failure of cues that a specific target, this is because the cue is being replaced by a new cue that grows stronger. This causes the initial cue to deteriorate because each separated memory is competing for first access to the conscious when the shared cue is presented.\n\nUnlearning is associated with two separate stimuli that are attached to a memory trace, the trace is then weakened because it isn't accessed often enough. When one attempted to recover said memory there is an error that happens when a different cue is presented.\n\nDirected forgetting is another name for \"Motivated Forgetting\", meaning that one is forgetting consciously any recent experience that was unwanted.\n\nCognitive control is known as the ability to access thoughts and memories, but as well as the ability to have control over unwanted thoughts surfacing from the unconscious. This kind of suppression can be linked to the think/no think (TNT) paradigm, which is practice that is designed to remind one of undesired life experiences that result in unwanted feelings, such as a first heartbreak, that one would normally try to avoid thinking about.\n\nAlso, repression a Freudian theory theorizes that it is a defense mechanism that destroys undesired feelings, ideas, and memories in the unconscious. This defense mechanism is due to the attempt to resolve and eliminate psychological hurt.\n\nWhen unwelcome reminders occur, people often try to exclude the unwanted memory from awareness. Stopping retrieval of an unwanted memory is known as ‘retrieval suppression’, a process that engages response override mechanisms formally similar to stopping a reflexive motor action.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853651", "title": "Piano Sonata No. 2 (Chopin)", "text": "Piano Sonata No. 2 (Chopin)\n\nFrédéric Chopin's Piano Sonata No. 2 in B-flat minor, Op. 35, is a piano sonata in four movements. Chopin completed the work while living in George Sand's manor in Nohant, some south of Paris, a year before it was published in 1840. The first of the composer's three mature sonatas (the others being the Piano Sonata No. 3 in B minor, Op. 58 and the Sonata for Piano and Cello in G minor, Op. 65), the work is considered to be one of the greatest piano sonatas of the literature.\n\nThe third movement of the Piano Sonata No. 2 is Chopin's famous funeral march () which was composed at least two years before the remainder of the work and has remained, by itself, one of Chopin's most popular compositions. The Piano Sonata No. 2 carries allusions and reminiscences of music by Bach and by Beethoven; Beethoven's twelfth piano sonata also has a funeral march as its third movement. A typical performance of Chopin's second sonata lasts between 21 and 25 minutes, depending on whether the repetition of the first movement's exposition is observed.\n\nWhile the Piano Sonata No. 2 gained instant popularity with the public, critical reception was initially more doubtful. Robert Schumann, among other critics, argued that the work was structurally inferior and that Chopin \"could not quite handle sonata form\", a criticism that did not withstand time. The work has been recorded by numerous pianists and is regularly programmed in concerts and piano competitions. The \"Marche funèbre\" exists in countless arrangements and is performed at funerals all over the world (including Chopin's own funeral), having become an archetypal evocation of death.\n\nThe Piano Sonata No. 2 was written during a time where the sonata lost its overpowering dominance. While the sonatas of Beethoven and Mozart comprised a considerable portion of their compositional output, this is not true of the next generation of composers: Franz Liszt only wrote two sonatas among his dozens of instrumental compositions, Robert Schumann seven (eight if including the Fantasie in C, Op. 17), and Felix Mendelssohn thirteen. Besides the Piano Sonata No. 2, Chopin wrote only three other sonatas: a piano sonata in C minor (Op. posth. 4), written at the age of eighteen; the Piano Sonata No. 3 in B minor (Op. 58); and the Sonata for Piano and Cello in G minor (Op. 65).\n\nThe compositional origins of the Piano Sonata No. 2, the first mature piano sonata Chopin wrote, are centred on its third movement (\"Marche funèbre\"), a funeral march which many scholars indicate was written in 1837. However, Jeffrey Kallberg believes that such indications are because of an autograph manuscript of eight bars of music in D-flat major marked \"Lento cantabile\", apparently written as a gift to an unnamed recipient. The manuscript, which is dated 28 November 1837, would later become part of the trio of the \"Marche funèbre\". However, Kallberg suggests this manuscript may have been intended as the beginning of an earlier attempt of a different slow movement instead of being part of the \"Marche funèbre\", writing that \"it would have been unusual for Chopin to make a gift of a manuscript that, if it did not contain an entire piece, did not at least quote the beginning of it\", as almost all of his other presentation manuscripts did. He also suggests that a four-hand arrangement by Julian Fontana of the \"Marche funèbre\" may be connected with an abandoned piano sonata for four hands that Chopin wrote in 1835, originally to be published as his op. 28 (which was instead appropriated to the 24 Preludes, Op. 28), therefore raising the possibility that the movement may actually date from 1835 instead of the generally accepted 1837.\n\nSome time after writing the \"Marche funèbre\", Chopin composed the other movements, completing the entire sonata by 1839. In a letter on 8 August 1839, addressed to Fontana, Chopin wrote:\n\nHaslinger's unauthorised dissemination of Chopin's early C minor sonata (he had gone as far as engraving the work and allowing it to circulate, against the composer's wishes) may have increased the pressure Chopin had to publish a piano sonata, which may explain why Chopin added the other movements to the \"Marche funèbre\" to produce a sonata. The work was finished in the summer of 1839 in Nohant (near Châteauroux), in France, and published in May 1840 in London, Leipzig, and Paris. The work was not furnished with a dedication.\n\nThe sonata comprises four movements:\n5–7 minutes\n\nWhen the sonata was published in 1840 in the usual three cities of Paris, Leipzig, and London, the London and Paris editions indicated the repeat of the exposition as starting at the very beginning of the movement (at the \"Grave\" section). However, the Leipzig edition designed the repeat as beginning at the \"Doppio movimento\" section. Although the critical edition published by Breitkopf & Härtel (that was edited, among others, by Franz Liszt, Carl Reinecke, and Johannes Brahms) indicate the repeat similarly to the London and Paris first editions, almost all 20th century editions are similar to the Leipzig edition in this regard. Charles Rosen argues that the repeat of the exposition in the manner perpetrated by the Leipzig edition is a serious error, saying it is \"musically impossible\" as it interrupts the D-flat major cadence (which ends the exposition) with the B-flat minor accompanimental figure. However, Leikin advocates for excluding the Grave from the repeat of the exposition, citing in part that Karol Mikuli's 1880 complete edition of Chopin contained a repeat sign after the Grave in the first movement of the Piano Sonata No. 2. Mikuli was a student of Chopin from 1844–1848 and also observed lessons Chopin gave to other students – including those where this sonata was taught – and took extensive notes.\n\nMost commercial recordings exclude the \"Grave\" from the repetition of the exposition, including those of Vladimir Ashkenazy, Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli, Murray Perahia, Maurizio Pollini, Martha Argerich, and Li Yundi; however, the recordings of Mitsuko Uchida and Yulianna Avdeeva, among others, begin the repetition from the \"Grave\". Other recordings, including those of Sergei Rachmaninoff, Arthur Rubinstein, Vladimir Horowitz, Evgeny Kissin, and Garrick Ohlsson, exclude the repetition altogether.\n\n6–7 minutes\n\nThe second movement is a scherzo in E minor and time with no tempo indication. Anatole Leikin suggests that the absence of the tempo indication can be explained by the close similarities of this movement and the closing section of the first movement, including the prevalence of repeated octaves and chords in both movements, and the identical cadential phrases. Therefore, the absence of a tempo indication may suggest that there is no new tempo, but instead a mere change of notation (from triplets to triple metre).\n\nThe movement is in the conventional scherzo-trio-scherzo form with the trio in G major. The scherzo's explosive rhythmic and dynamic power, as well as its furious insistence on repeated chords and octaves, places it in the tradition of the scherzo movements of Beethoven. However, unlike Beethoven, whose scherzos are transformed minuets, this scherzo has many defining rhythmic characteristics that make it a transformed mazurka instead. The trio, marked \"Più lento\", has a songlike quality to it with its simple, sensuous melody. Following the return of the scherzo is a coda that is a condensed reprise of the trio and therefore ends the work in the relative major; other works of Chopin that also end in the relative major include the Scherzo No. 2 in B minor (Op. 31) and the Fantaisie in F minor (Op. 49).\n\n8–9 minutes\n\nThe third movement, titled \"Marche funèbre\", is a \"stark juxtaposition of funeral march and pastoral trio\". The movement is in B minor and time with the trio in the relative major of D. The tempo designation, \"Lento\", was not added until after the sonata's publication in 1840. The movement opens with a melody consisting of just a repeated B for almost three measures accompanied by alternating B (without the third) and G major chords that ring like a funereal bell. This melodic device was also used as the backbone for the main theme of the preceding Scherzo movement and part of the coda of the opening movement. The melody following the repeated B, is, as Alan Walker notes, \"a strict retrogade\" of the first movement's main theme. The trio of the movement, which is in the tonic's relative major, consists of a serene melody accompanied by quavers in the left hand.\n\nThe \"Marche funèbre\" alone has remained one of Chopin's most popular compositions and has become an archetypal evocation of death. It has been widely arranged for other instrumentations, most notably for orchestra. The first known orchestral arrangement of the movement was made by Napoléon Henri Reber and was played at the graveside during Chopin's own burial on 30 October 1849 at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris. The English conductor Henry Wood made two orchestrations of the \"Marche funèbre\", the first of which was played at The Proms on four occasions between 1895 and 1904. For the First Night of the 1907 Proms on 17 August 1907, Wood conducted a new version he had written on learning of the death two days earlier of the renowned violinist Joseph Joachim. In 1933, Sir Edward Elgar transcribed the \"Marche funèbre\" for full orchestra; its first performance was at his own memorial concert the next year. It was also transcribed for large orchestra by the conductor Leopold Stokowski; this version was recorded for the first time by Matthias Bamert.\n\nAlthough the movement was originally published as \"Marche funèbre\", Chopin changed its title to simply \"Marche\" in his corrections of the first Paris edition. In addition, whenever Chopin wrote about this movement in his letters, he referred to it as a \"march\" instead of a \"funeral march\". Kallberg believes Chopin's removal of the adjective \"funèbre\" was possibly motivated by his contempt for descriptive labels of his music. After his London publisher Wessel & Stapleton added unauthorised titles to Chopin’ works, including \"The Infernal Banquet\" to his first scherzo in B minor (Op. 20), the composer, in a letter to Fontana, wrote:\n\nIn 1826, a decade before he wrote this movement, Chopin had composed another \"Marche funèbre\" in C minor, which was published posthumously as Op. 72 No. 2.\n\n1–2 minutes\n\nThe short finale, marked \"Presto\" and in time, is a perpetuum mobile in \"relatively simple\" binary form consisting of parallel octaves played \"sotto voce e legato\" (similarly to the Prelude in E minor, Op. 28 No. 14) and not a single rest or chord until the final bars with a sudden \"fortissimo\" B bass octave and a B minor chord ending the whole piece. In this movement, \"a complicated chromaticism is worked out in implied three- and four-part harmony entirely by means of one doubled monophonic line\"; very similarly, the 5 measures that begin Bach's Fugue in A minor (BWV 543) imply a four-part harmony through a single monophonic line. Garrick Ohlsson remarked that the movement is \"extraordinary, because he’s written the weirdest movement he's ever written in his whole life, something which truly looks to the 20th century and post-romanticism and atonality\". Additionally, Leikin describes the finale as \"probably the most enigmatic piece Chopin ever wrote\", and Anton Rubinstein is said to have remarked that the fourth movement is the \"wind howling around the gravestones\".\n\nChopin, who wrote pedal indications very frequently, did not write any in the Finale except for the very last bar. Although Moritz Rosenthal (a pupil of Liszt and Mikuli) claimed that the movement should not be played with any pedal except where indicated in the last measure, Rosen believed that the \"effect of wind over the graves\", as Anton Rubinstein described this movement, \"is generally achieved with a heavy wash of pedal\".\n\nThe Piano Sonata No. 2 draws an allusion to the Prelude from Bach's Cello Suite No. 6 in D major, BWV 1012. A frequently repeated motif of Bach's Prelude is noticeably similar to the main theme of the first movement of Chopin's sonata; in addition, similarly to the Finale of Chopin's sonata, the Prelude is a perpetuum mobile with four groups of quaver triplets per bar. In addition, in the Finale, Chopin borrowed from Bach the craft of achieving polyphony through a monophonic line by the means of arpeggiated figures: in some respects, he even went further than Bach in this regard. In addition, the plan of Chopin's sonata directly follows that of Beethoven's Piano Sonata No. 12 in A-flat major, Op. 26, which also is in four movements and features a \"Marcia funèbre\" slow movement: like Chopin's sonata, the slow funeral march movement follows the fast scherzo second movement. Chopin is usually regarded as the Romantic era composer least influenced by Beethoven; however, Beethoven's Op. 26 was reportedly his favourite Beethoven sonata, and he played and taught it more than any other Beethoven sonata.\n\nAlthough the Piano Sonata No. 2 was quick to gain popularity among the public, it initially confused the critics, who found it lacked cohesion and unity, and remarked that he could not quite handle sonata form. Most of the critical reviews written in the century following the work's publication were negative, although critics were still very complimentary about certain aspects of the sonata. The sonata, along with Chopin's two other mature sonatas, was performed very sporadically in Poland and other countries in Europe prior to 1900; however, the \"Marche funèbre\" by itself was performed often, both for piano and in transcriptions. It was not until the turn of the century that the sonatas were performed more often. Recent commentaries suggest that the notions that the work suffers from structural inferiority and that Chopin could not handle sonata form are slowly fading away, and it is now considered one of the greatest piano sonatas of the literature. The sonata now continues to regularly appear on concert programs and is frequently performed in classical music competitions, especially the Chopin International Piano Competition.\n\nThe first major criticism, by Robert Schumann, appeared in 1841. Schumann was critical of the work. He described the sonata as \"four of [his] maddest children under the same roof\" and found the title \"Sonata\" capricious and slightly presumptuous. He also remarked that the \"Marche funèbre\" \"has something repulsive\" about it, and that \"an adagio in its place, perhaps in D-flat, would have had a far more beautiful effect\". In addition, the finale caused a stir among Schumann and other musicians. Schumann said that the movement \"seems more like a mockery than any [sort of] music\", and when Felix Mendelssohn was asked for an opinion of it, he commented, \"Oh, I abhor it\". James Huneker remarked that the four movements of the sonata \"have no common life\", and that the sonata \"is not more a sonata than it is a sequence of ballades and scherzi.\" Despite these remarks, he called the last two movements “masterpieces” and wrote that the finale has “no parallel in piano music”. Similarly, James Cuthbert Hadden wrote that \"the four movements, regarded separately, are admirable, but taken together they have little thematic or other affinity,\" and also concurred with Schumann's description of the sonata as \"four of his maddest children\" bound together. Henry Bidou considered the work \"not very coherent\", and remarked that \"Schumann has pointed out the defect in its composition\".\n\nDespite the negative reaction to the work, the reception of the \"Marche funèbre\" itself was generally positive, and according to Hadden, writing in 1903, the work had been \"popularised to death\". Franz Liszt, a friend of Chopin's, remarked that the \"Marche funèbre\" is \"of such penetrating sweetness that we can scarcely deem it of this earth\", and Charles Willeby wrote that it is by far \"the most beautiful and consistent movement\" of the work. Despite criticising the sonata as a whole, Hadden conveyed the opinion that the \"Marche funèbre\" \"is really the finest movement in the Sonata\". The \"Marche funèbre\" alone continues to be one of Chopin's most enduringly popular compositions, and is performed at funerals around the world. In addition to Chopin's own funeral, it was also performed at the state funerals of John F. Kennedy, Sir Winston Churchill, Margaret Thatcher, and those of Soviet and Communist leaders, including Leonid Brezhnev, Yuri Andropov, and Josef Broz Tito. as well as the funerals of Egyptian presidents Anwar Sadat and Hosni Mubarak as well as Egyptian vice president Omar Suleiman.\n\nThe sonata, mainly the \"Marche funèbre\", played an influence in a variety of both classical and non-classical compositions written after it. The development of the first movement contains a complex network of leitmotifs that Richard Wagner would similarly bring to fruition in his work \"Der Ring des Nibelungen\" (popularly known as the \"Ring Cycle\"). The second movement of Erik Satie's \"Embryons desséchés\", entitled \"of an Edriophthalma\", uses a variation on the \"Marche funèbre\"'s second theme. Satie labels it \"Citation de la célèbre mazurka de SCHUBERT\" (\"quotation from the celebrated mazurka of Schubert\"), but no such piece exists. In addition, the \"Marche funèbre\" is sampled in a number of jazz compositions, including Duke Ellington's \"Black and Tan Fantasy\", and the Canadian electronic dance music musician deadmau5 used the theme from the \"Marche funèbre\" in his song Ghosts 'n' Stuff. Professional wrestler The Undertaker quotes the opening of the March in his entrance theme, as part of his macabre gimmick. This sonata also influenced Sergei Rachmaninoff in his Piano Sonata No. 2 (Op. 36), also in B minor. While explaining to his friends why he decided on a new 1931 version, Rachmaninoff said: \"I look at my early works and see how much there is that is superfluous. Even in this sonata so many voices are moving simultaneously, and it is too long. Chopin's Sonata lasts nineteen minutes, and all has been said\".\n\nSeveral highly acclaimed editions are available of the Piano Sonata No. 2, most notably the editions of G. Henle Verlag, the edition edited by Ignacy Jan Paderewski, and the Chopin National Edition edited by Jan Ekier. The work has been widely performed and recorded. Two of the earliest commercial recordings of the work were made by Percy Grainger and Sergei Rachmaninoff in 1928 and 1930 respectively. Commercial recordings have also been made by such pianists as Alfred Cortot, Daniel Barenboim, Alexander Brailowsky, Samson François, Emil Gilels, Vladimir Horowitz, William Kapell, Wilhelm Kempff, Evgeny Kissin, George Li, Murray Perahia, Ivo Pogorelić, Antonio Pompa-Baldi, Arthur Rubinstein, Mitsuko Uchida, and Chopin International Piano Competition winners Martha Argerich, Yulianna Avdeeva, Seong-Jin Cho, Maurizio Pollini, Adam Harasiewicz, Li Yundi, and Garrick Ohlsson.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853654", "title": "Ludwika Maria Poniatowska", "text": "Ludwika Maria Poniatowska\n\nCountess Ludwika \"Luds\" Maria Poniatowska (30 November 1728 – 2 October 1804) was a Polish noblewoman, known as the sister of the King of Poland, Stanisław August Poniatowski.\n\nShe was the daughter of Stanisław Poniatowski and Konstancja Czartoryska.\n\nIn 1745, she married Jan Jakub Graf Zamoyski, by whom she had an only daughter. The couple separated after the birth of their daughter in 1750.\n\nIn 1763, her brother was elected king of Poland. She and her sister Izabella Poniatowska both opposed her brother's suggested marriage to princess Sophia Albertina of Sweden.\n\nIn the spring of 1791, she and her daughter visited Paris during a difficult period in Poland, which attracted bad publicity.\n\nOn 7 January 1795, she, her daughter and family joined king Stanisław in Grodno, and remained by his side during the Third Partition of Poland. Reportedly, she and her daughter, along with their coterie and urged by the Russian N. Repnin, contributed to persuade the king to sign his abdication on 25 November, as they feared that his refusal would lead to a Russian confiscation of their property and their ruin.\n\nOn 9 September 1801, she and her daughter donated the Kazanowski Palace as a residence for the future Louis XVIII of France. She spent her last years in Vienna.\n"}
{"id": "1853656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853656", "title": "Fejø", "text": "Fejø\n\nFejø is a Danish island north of Lolland. It covers an area of and has 611 permanent inhabitants (1 January 2005). Its population expands in Summer since many Danes have summerhouses and there is an influx of other tourists. Fejø has two villages: Vesterby and Østerby, connected by a single main road. Fejø has two main harbors, Vesterbyhavn and Dybvighavn. The island has a cafe, restaurant, shop, retirement home, church, primary school, mill and a resident doctor. It has a windmill which was restored and started grinding corn for the first time in decades in June 2013.\n\nThe island has a microclimate with few late frosts and one of the longest growing seasons in Denmark, making it very well suited for apples and pears. Winters are among the mildest in Denmark. It is known for its many apple plantations and has an annual festival \"Æblets Dag\" (Day Of The Apple) which features a picture composed from local apples. Local products include apple juice, marmelade, cider and honey. Fejø has an active permaculture group who are researching the productivity of exotic species and transition town initiative with a variety of projects.\n\nA subsidised ferry from Kragenæs carries vehicles and foot passengers to Vesterbyhavn in 15 minutes and runs about 20 times daily. It is free for island residents. A subsidised bus provides free transport on the island. The island has a bicycle sharing system which makes bikes available at both Vesterbyhavn and Dybvighavn, charging 50 kr. for a day's cycle hire.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853657", "title": "The Portrait Now", "text": "The Portrait Now\n\nThe Portrait Now was an exhibition of contemporary portraiture held in 1993 to 1994 at the National Portrait Gallery, London. Among many others it included portraits by Michael Andrews, Frank Auerbach, Francis Bacon, Tony Bevan, Chuck Close, Jim Dine, Peter Edwards, Stephen Finer, Lucian Freud, Richard Hamilton, Howard Hodgkin, David Hockney, Panayiotis Kalorkoti, Jeff Koons, Leon Kossoff, Alice Neel, Nam June Paik, David Salle, Julian Schnabel and Andy Warhol. It presented a decade of portraiture focusing on the forms of sculpture and painting, however ait lso included some video pieces.\n\nA catalogue of the same name by Robin Gibson was published to coincide with the exhibition.\n\nVaried subjects included self-portraits: Koons, Neel, Penck, less known figures and some well known names: Joseph Beuys by Warhol, Marlene Dietrich by Finer, President Mitterrand by Organ, Archbishop Desmond Tutu by Marisol, Seamus Heaney by Edwards, and \"The Smoking Man\" a video portrait by Marty St.James.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853659", "title": "Brooklyn Brewery", "text": "Brooklyn Brewery\n\nBrooklyn Brewery is a brewery in Brooklyn, New York City, United States. It was started in 1988 by Steve Hindy and Tom Potter.\n\nHindy learned to brew beer during a six-year stay in various Middle Eastern nations such as Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. Upon his return to his home in Brooklyn in 1984, he and Potter, his downstairs neighbor from Park Slope, quit their jobs and founded the brewery. The pair hired graphic designer Milton Glaser, best known as the creator of the logo for the \"I Love New York\" campaign, to create the company logo and identity. Glaser received a share in the company in return.\n\nOriginally all their beer was brewed by contract by Matt Brewing Company, and the pair started their own distribution company and personally transported and marketed their beer to bars and retailers around New York City. In 1996, they acquired a former matzo factory in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and converted it into a functional brewery.\n\nAlthough the brewery looked to expand its brewing capacity in the City, originally most of the production, including all Brooklyn Lager and all bottled products, were brewed by contract in the upstate New York city of Utica, due to the limited ability to meet demand at the Williamsburg brewery, its lack of a bottling line, and the cost benefits of contract brewing. The company later sought to expand its facilities in Brooklyn, but had difficulty finding a suitable site within the borough. However, an economic recession allowed them to remain in Williamsburg and undertake a $6.5 million expansion of the brewery in 2009.\n\nSince 1994, Garrett Oliver has been the Brooklyn Brewery brewmaster. He had first been appointed brewmaster at the Manhattan Brewing Company of New York in 1993 where he began brewing professionally as an apprentice in 1989. In 2003 he published the book \"The Brewmaster's Table: Discovering the Pleasures of Real Beer with Real Food\". Garrett has also been a judge at the Great American Beer Festival for eleven years.\n\nIn 2016, they announced that they were looking to relocate their specialty brewing operation in Williamsburg after their landlord, Yoel Goldman, put the building up for sale as they would not be able to renew their lease for a reasonable price given escalating real estate prices. They also plan to relocate their main brewery in Utica, New York to a $70 million, 200,000-square-foot facility on Staten Island.\n\nJapanese corporation Kirin acquired a 24.5% stake in the brewery in October 2016.\n\nSince December 30, 2016, the Carlsberg Group has an agreement with Brooklyn Brewery to distribute its beers in Europe, the UK, and Hong Kong. Carlsberg has opened a craft brewery in Lithuania to produce Brooklyn Lager under license. Brooklyn Brewery has acquired London Fields Brewery in a joint venture with Carlsberg.\n\nThe brewery has taken a less conventional approach to marketing and advertising, relying more on word-of-mouth, brand visibility at bars as well as donations to, and sponsorship of, nonprofits. Organizations sponsored by the brewery include Eat Drink Local Week, Desertfest, the Culinary Institute of America's Hyde Park campus, New York Harbor Restoration, the Brooklyn Museum and The New York Poetry Festival.\n\nIn 2005 Hindy and Potter published \"Beer School: Bottling Success At The Brooklyn Brewery\" through John Wiley & Sons. The book is both a guide to entrepreneurship and beer brewing as well as a memoir of the authors' time together while building the Brooklyn Brewery. \"Beer School\" goes over topics such as building teams as well as guerrilla marketing and publicity, with each chapter being written around a theme in the brewery's history. The book is told through the perspectives of both Hindy and Potter, and received mostly positive reviews from critics.\n\nEsquire magazine selected the Brooklyn Lager 16 ounce as one of the \"Best Canned Beers to Drink Now\" in a February, 2012 article.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853662", "title": "Belgrano II Base", "text": "Belgrano II Base\n\nBelgrano II Base () is a permanent, all year-round Argentine Antarctic base and scientific research station named after General Manuel Belgrano, one of the Libertadores and the creator of the Argentine Flag. It is located on Bertrab Nunatak on the Confín Coast, Coats Land.\n\nIn 1955, then Brigade General Hernán Pujato founded the first Belgrano Base (Belgrano I), which remained for years as Argentina's southernmost settlement.\n\nAfter a continuous activity for 25 years, Belgrano I was closed due to the fast deterioration of the ice barrier it was sitting on; new, often hidden cracks and crevices endangered the on-duty personnel and material. In order to continue the scientific programs and keep Argentina presence in the area, and after careful studies on alternative locations done by the Argentine Army, it was decided to lay the new facilities on solid land. Amid the vast expanse of ice that covers the region, only two small masses of granite emerge: the Moltke and Bertrab nunataks, both first sighted and named by Filchner's expedition in 1912.\nBelgrano II was founded on 5 February 1979 over the latter, a hectare of permanently ice-free land. Also and despite being farther south and higher than Belgrano I, the climate was significantly milder.\n\nThe unloading of the materials—equipment, tools and instruments, food and fuel—was conducted from the icebreaker ARA \"General San Martín\".\n\nThe new housing facilities were a vast improvement over the previous base ones: since 1955, the men who wintered in the old Belgrano I Base were living inside tunnels dug in the ice, ice that was always moving slowly towards the sea and, as finally happened, would become a tabular iceberg drifting through the Southern Ocean.\n\nIn its area of influence two Argentine-built refuges existed since long before: the \"Sargento Ayudante Cisterna\" y el \"Aviso ARA Comandante Zapiola\" shelters had been set up in January 1976.\n\nIn addition to new instrumental brought from the mainland, Belgrano II received all the scientific equipment transferred from Belgrano I. The LABEL laboratory (LAboratory BELgrano) was rebuilt demanding considerable effort. A new facility, the \"José Luis Sersic\" polar astronomical observatory and a satellite dish antenna for data transmission were also set up.\n\nOn the morning of 10 September 2005 the main house was completely destroyed as a result of a fire caused by a heater malfunction. Personnel had to be distributed to other buildings and new food and clothes had to be brought from the mainland and airdropped as the fire had destroyed all the wintering elements. The construction of emergency facilities to solve the housing problem started in early 2006, This new building was planned in two stages with the first one (bathrooms, kitchen and bedrooms) being finished in 2006–07 and the second one (living room), in 2007–08. During the 2008–09 campaign the construction of a new main house began. It was completed during the 2009–10 campaign and was inaugurated on 25 May 2010. The new house has a covered area of about with more comfort and space for recreation: it is located on what was once the former home destroyed by fire.\n\nDuring the repairs of the Argentine Navy icebreaker ARA \"Almirante Irízar\" which is normally used to supply the base, the Argentine Air Force took over the task with airdrops by KC-130 Hercules aircraft in a non-stop flight from Ushuaia in Tierra del Fuego.\n\nA cross was erected in 1955 some north-east of Belgrano I and subsequently moved to Belgrano II in 1979. This has been designated a Historic Site or Monument, following a proposal by Argentina to the Antarctic Treaty Consultative Meeting.\n\nBelgrano II is about from the South Pole and from Ushuaia, the nearest port city. it is Argentina's southernmost permanent base, and the third further south permanent base in the planet.\nIt is also the world's southmost base built on solid rock, which gives it unique advantages for seismological and geological research.\n\nAs a result of its latitude, the summer day and winter night are four months long and the night sky often displays the \"aurora australis\".\n\nStructures are mostly of composite panels covered by metal or fiberglass filled with polyurethane foam to provide adequate thermal insulation to resist low temperatures. Some of the facilities at the base are: main and personnel houses; emergency house/infirmary; airstrip; heliport; chapel; museum; radio station; meteorological station; power plant; vehicle fleet (several Tucker Sno-Cats and Yamaha VK-541 ski-doos); atmospheric research station; mechanical, carpentry and electricity workshop; general equipment and spare parts warehouses; and foodstuff deposits (also called GUM).\nThe all-year capable airstrip is located on a glacier southwest of the base.\nThe one-bed infirmary is , attended by a doctor and a nurse. It has x-ray and odontological facilities.\nDug in the nearby ice, Belgrano II's Catholic chapel is the world's southernmost Christian church—in fact, it's the southernmost worship place of any religion.\n\nThe general tasks of the base personnel are primarily of scientific research, survey and exploration, also providing support for foreign scientific efforts.\nOther common duties are shelter maintenance, search and rescue, medical, communications and weather forecast support to expeditions, bases, ships and aircraft, both local and foreign.\n\nThe following research programs are run at LABEL:\n\nAlthough maintained by the Argentine Armed Forces, as all Argentine bases on Antarctica, it is operated by the civilian agency Argentine Antarctic Institute. \n, the base has a 19 men crew two of whom are Air Force meteorologists, three are Argentine National Antarctic Directorate civilian researchers and the rest is Argentine Army personnel in charge of operating the base.\n\nThe Belgrano II base has a coastal-influenced ice cap climate.\n\nThe area is a passage of weather fronts directed towards the north: although they do not precipitate, they do produce strong winds exceeding which radically increase the chill factor.\n\nMean monthly temperatures range from in July, the coldest month to in January, the warmest month. During summer, the average high is while the average low is . In winter, the average high and low are and respectively. Temperature extremes range between to . During the polar night, a lot of aurorae can be observed.\n\nSnowfall occurs throughout the year; on average, there are 143 days with snow. January to April are the snowiest periods of the year with each month receiving 13 to 14 days with snow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853665", "title": "Udachnaya pipe", "text": "Udachnaya pipe\n\nThe Udachnaya pipe (, literally \"lucky pipe\") is a diamond deposit in the Daldyn-Alakit kimberlite field in Sakha Republic, Russia. It is an open-pit mine, and is located just outside the Arctic circle at .\n\nUdachnaya was discovered on 15 June 1955, just two days after the discovery of the diamond pipe Mir by Soviet geologist Vladimir Shchukin and his team. It is about deep, making it the third deepest open-pit mine in the world (after Bingham Canyon Mine and Chuquicamata).\n\nThe nearby settlement of Udachny is named for the deposit.\n\n, Udachnaya pipe is controlled by Russian diamond company Alrosa, which planned to halt open-pit mining in favor of underground mining in 2010. \n\nThe mine has estimated reserves of of diamonds and an annual production capacity of .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853667", "title": "Werner von Urslingen", "text": "Werner von Urslingen\n\nWerner von Urslingen (called in Italian: Guarnieri d'Urslingen or Duca Guarnieri; c. 1308 – 1354) was a mercenary of German-speaking origins in the Holy Roman Empire. He is also known as Werner of Urslingen.\n\nWerner was born at Irslingen, in Irslingen Swabia, a member of the family of the dukes of Urslingen, and probably a descendant of the dukes of Spoleto. In 1338 he fought for the Republic of Venice against Mastino II della Scala of Verona. After the end of that conflict he entered the Compagnia di San Giorgio, financed by the Veronese and led by Lodrisio Visconti, and took part in the battle of Parabiago.\n\nIn 1342 Werner joined the service of the Republic of Pisa in its war against Florence, whose troops were led by Malatesta III Malatesta. After that war he collected a troop of adventurers under the name \"Great Company\", with which he plundered rural Tuscany, Umbria, and the Romagna. He supported Francesco Ordelaffi against the Papal States, and was bribed by his enemy, Malatestino Malatesta of Rimini, to help him in his feud with Ferrantino Malatesta. In 1343 Werner was hired by Taddeo Pepoli of Bologna for a very large sum, to fight against Obizzo III d'Este of Modena; but he switched to the Este side and went on to ravage several cities, including Correggio. His company was subsequently expelled from the Ferrara area, and Werner of Urslingen returned to Germany with some of his men.\n\nIn 1347 he returned to the Italian peninsula and entered the service of Louis I the Great, king of Hungary and Poland, whom he assisted to obtain possession of Naples. Werner of Urslingen's troops defeated Louis, Prince of Taranto (Joan's husband) near Naples, and King Louis was able to enter the city; the following year, however, Werner was accused of collaboration with Joan, and arrested. After having been freed, he entered the service of the Caetani of Fondi with 3,000 men, to attack the Orsini at Supino. In 1348 he sacked and destroyed Anagni: this spurred Perugia and other communes to muster an army against him, and Werner, whose troops had also been struck by the plague, was forced to retreat. He then joined the service of the Papal States, for which he conquered several territories, and then that of Joan of Naples, whom he helped to return in Naples. In 1349, after a period of fighting in Apulia (of which he was named viceroy), he was ambushed by the Hungarian Voivoda of Transylvania, Stephen Lackfi, and defeated. Werner then mustered an army of 3,000 Hungarian, German, and Neapolitan knights and 2,000 Lombard foot soldiers to counter-attack Stephen, defeating him before Naples.\n\nIn 1350 he allied with Giovanni di Vico to ravage the Papal fiefs in northern Latium. In the same period he signed an agreement with Louis of Taranto to cede him Capua, Aversa, and other strongholds in the Kingdom of Naples. Werner subsequently fought for the lords of Forlì and Faenza against the papal legate, and, hired by Giacomo Pepoli of Bologna, helped him to regain his city, but not before sacking it. After Bologna was sold back to the Visconti, Werner besieged it, but was defeated by Galeazzo II Visconti's army.\n\nIn 1351 his company was unable to find anyone to pay it, until he was hired by Mastino II della Scala and then by the Visconti. Later, he returned to Swabia, where he died in 1354. After his death, the leadership of the Grand Company went to Fra' Moriale.\n\nHe is said to have worn a breastplate with the inscription \"The enemy of God, of pity and of mercy.\"\n"}
{"id": "1853670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853670", "title": "Bus turnout", "text": "Bus turnout\n\nA bus turnout, bus pullout, bus bay, bus lay-by (UK), or off-line bus stop is a designated spot on the side of a road where buses or trams may pull out of the flow of traffic to pick up and drop off passengers. It is often indented into the sidewalk or other pedestrian area. A bus bay is, in a way, the opposite of a bus bulb. With a bus bulb, the point is to save the bus the time needed to merge out of and back into moving traffic, at the cost of temporarily blocking that traffic while making a stop. With a bus bay, the goal is to not block traffic while the bus is stopped, but at the cost of the time necessary to merge back into flowing traffic. Bus bays, therefore, will generally produce longer dwell times than bus bulbs.\n\nThe dwell time can be reduced by traffic legislation. E. g. in the Czech Republic, the drivers in the running traffic lane are obliged to enable to the bus to leave the bus stop, but this obligation applies only in built up area. The Czech technical standards from 1970s and 1990s (ČSN 73 6425) preferred to build bus bays at all classes of roads, the new version ČSN 73 6425-1 from 2007 prefers bus stops in the running lane within traffic calming concept. On roads of higher classes, bus bays or bus stop lanes are obliged. \n\n"}
{"id": "1853684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853684", "title": "Hannes Hegen", "text": "Hannes Hegen\n\nHannes Hegen (real name \"Johannes Eduard Hegenbarth\"; 16 May 1925 – 8 November 2014) was a German illustrator and caricaturist and is most famous for creating the East German comic book Mosaik and its original protagonists, the Digedags.\n\nHegen was born in Böhmisch Kamnitz, now Česká Kamenice. He studied at the University of Applied Arts Vienna and at the Academy of Visual Arts Leipzig. After his studies, he worked in Berlin, illustrating several magazines.\n\nHis own creation \"Mosaik\" was first published in December 1955. Hegen was solely responsible for only the first issues of the book. Later a team of artists and writers worked on the book, but only Hegen was credited on the cover. 223 issues were produced. Hegen worked on \"Mosaik\" until 1975, when he had a disagreement with the publisher and quit working, taking the rights to the \"Digedags\" characters with him. The Mosaik team continued without him and created new characters to appear in \"Mosaik\".\n\nHegen died in Berlin, aged 89, still working on reprint and book editions for the original \"Mosaik\" comics.\n\nIn 2008 Hannes Hegen received the Max & Moritz Prize, the most important German prize for comic artists from the International Comic Salon Erlangen. In 2010 he was awarded for his creative work, the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (Knight's Cross, or Merit Cross on Ribbon, German: Verdienstkreuz am Bande).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853686", "title": "Vejrø", "text": "Vejrø\n\nVejrø is a Danish island north of Lolland. It covers an area of and has two inhabitants ().\n\nThe island is private property; for tourists, it offers a marina, an airfield, and some cottages for rent.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853689", "title": "Askø", "text": "Askø\n\nAskø is a Danish island north of Lolland. It covers an area of 2.82 km² and has 55 inhabitants (as of 1 January 2005).\n\nIn 1954, there were 170 inhabitants and one vehicle.\n\nIn 2014 energy company SEAS-NVE discovered a Neolithic boat in a submerged settlement as it replaced sea cables by Askø Island. The boat had split and sealing mass consisting of a strip of bark and resin was found in the hole.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853696", "title": "EDACS", "text": "EDACS\n\nThe Enhanced Digital Access Communication System (EDACS) is a radio communications protocol and product family invented in the General Electric Corporation in the mid 1980s.\n\nA young designer, Jeff Childress, created an autonomous radio base-station controller, known as the GETC (General Electric Trunking Card). The GETC was a general-purpose controller with input/output optimized for radio system applications.\n\nChildress and the team demonstrated that a smart controller could be adapted to a variety of applications, but his interest was really in fault tolerance. The competition dealt with fault tolerance by means of the \"brute force and ignorance\" approach, deploying double the hardware for their controllers, and interconnecting them with massive and problematic relay banks .\n\nThe EDACS system architecture supported large communications footprints. By making the GETC's \"trunk\" among themselves, one GETC per channel, the system was designed to be inherently fault-tolerant. If one channel, or device, experienced problems, the others voted it off the network, and calls continued to be processed with the remaining resources . This provided substantial hardware reductions, and the required software efforts yielded a variety of unique features and options.\n\nThis was not a new concept in systems design; however, few other teams have embodied it cleanly into such wide distribution.\n\nThe EDACS system continues to be sold and supports a sizable portion of the market today for the public safety, public transit, and industrial two-way radio communications field .\n\nEDACS was developed in competition with Motorola's Smartnet trunking system. It claimed, and continues to hold, significant market share. GE teamed with Sweden's Ericsson, and the company became Ericsson GE. Later, GE exited the business. Ericsson eventually sold the Private Radio Systems (PRS) unit to Com-Net in 2000, resulting in Com-Net Ericsson. M/A-COM Inc., a holding of Tyco Electronics, acquired the business and technologies in May 2001, including many of the original team members, some of their children, and a few grandchildren who continue to manufacture and support the product family.\n\nEDACS has the largest customer base of any technology in M/A-COM's portfolio (i.e. EDACS, OpenSky, P25 and TETRA). Over 500 large-scale EDACS radio systems have been sold - with the State of Florida being the largest. Hundreds of thousands of radios have been sold to function on these EDACS systems .\n\nIn April 2009 Harris Corporation (NYSE:HRS), an international communications and information technology company, acquired the Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems business (formerly known as M/A-COM).\n\nSoftware for system managers and radio monitors alike has been developed outside of the vendor. ETrunker is a modification to the Trunker code to work on the EDACS control channel. Users of the software can monitor and log complete system activity. See the Trunker Site for more info.\n\nProVoice is Tyco Electronics' (formerly M/A-COM, Ericsson and GE) implementation of IMBE digital modulation for radio communications. It is not APCO-25 compliant, but does use the same IMBE vocoder developed by Digital Voice Systems, Inc. (DVSI). The technical difference between ProVoice and the APCO Project-25 standard is how error correction and modulation is provided to transmit the data.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853697", "title": "Aleksander August Zamoyski", "text": "Aleksander August Zamoyski\n\nCount Aleksander August Zamoyski (1770 - 6 December 1800) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nAleksander became the 11th Ordynat of Zamość estate. He died childless.\n"}
{"id": "1853699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853699", "title": "Voodoo Woman", "text": "Voodoo Woman\n\nVoodoo Woman is a 1957 horror film directed by Edward L. Cahn and starring Marla English, Tom Conway, and Mike Connors. It was released by American International Pictures as a double feature with \"The Undead\".\n\nA pair of treasure hunters, which includes the beautiful but ruthless Marilyn Blanchard (Marla English), discover gold in the voodoo idol of a tribe of the African jungle. Hoping to find more such treasures, they con the innocent Ted Bronson (Mike Connors) into acting as a jungle guide and leading them to the tribe that made the idol.\n\nMeanwhile, Dr. Roland Gerard (Tom Conway), a mad scientist who has exiled himself deep in the same jungle, is using a combination of native voodoo and his own biochemical discoveries in an attempt to create a superhuman being. He hopes that this being, possessing the best of man and beast, will be the mother of a new perfect and deathless race which he will control with a mixture of hypnosis and telepathy. He is accompanied by his wife, Susan (Mary Ellen Kaye), who has long since disavowed her husband but remains trapped by her husband and the natives.\n\nDr. Gerard's initial attempts to create a female superbeing are a failure because the transformation is only temporary and the native girl used as the subject of the experiment lacks the killer instinct he deems necessary for survival. However, when he stumbles upon the party of treasure hunters, he decides that Marilyn will be a perfect subject for his experiment. He successfully turns her into an invulnerable monster, but her inherent selfishness and greed outweigh his mental control over her and she turns on him. Ted and Susan are able to escape in the ensuing chaos.\n\n\nLance Fuller reportedly had a two-films-a-year deal over five years with Golden State Productions.\n\nThe original make-up design for the Voodoo Woman was deemed unsuitable at the last minute and the title monster is actually the She Creature costume hurriedly stripped of its tail, fins and pincer-like claws. What remained was the bulky Thing-style body, which was wrapped in a burlap sarong and topped with a modified skull mask and big blond wig. Cahn worked actively to conceal this fact, using quick cuts and keeping her mostly in shadows or behind foliage. The rumbling growl of a lion was also dubbed for added effect.\n\nThe film is widely regarded as one of the worst films in cinema - yet in 1966, just nine years later, it was remade by Larry Buchanan into a TV film that is considered even worse, \"Curse of the Swamp Creature\".\n\nOn a more personal level, in his \"The Pit and the Pen\" column in \"Fangoria\" magazine producer Alex Gordon revealed that the movie nearly caused a break-up with his then-fiance Ruth Alexander. Proud of the finished production he took her to see it at its Burbank premiere only to have her hand back his engagement ring when it was over, telling him that he should be making prestigious high class art films and not trash like this. Luckily, his brother Richard was able to explain to her the differences between low budget and big budget film-making, and she and Alex were eventually married, with her later actually scripting several of his features.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853705", "title": "Carlini Base", "text": "Carlini Base\n\nCarlini Base (), formerly known as Jubany Base, is an Argentine permanent base and scientific research station named after scientist Alejandro Ricardo Carlini (previously it had been named after Argentine naval pilot José Isidro Jubany). It is located on Potter Cove, King George Island, in the South Shetland Islands.\n\n, Carlini is one of 13 research bases in Antarctica operated by Argentina.\n\nPotter Cove, in the southwestern region of the King George Island (known as \"Isla 25 de Mayo\" in Argentina) in the South Shetland archipelago\nwas chosen around 1953 to host an Argentine naval station for amphibious aircraft support.\n\nThe refuge was established on 21 November 1953, being temporarily called Refugio Potter and then Caleta Potter Naval Station. In the summer campaign of 1953–54 the shelter was inhabited by only three men. It was proposed to name the base after naval aviator Jose Isidro Jubany, killed on duty on 14 September 1948; the station was thus renamed as Teniente Jubany in the course of the 1954–55 campaign.\n\nIn the summer campaign of 1957–1958 two groups of scientists working for the Argentine Antarctic Institute conducted geological survey work in the area, collecting petrographic and paleontological samples to study local geological upward movements. Dr. Otto Schneider was head of the first group and Osvaldo C. Schauer, chief of the second.\n\nIn 1982 the naval station facilities were transferred to the Argentine Antarctic Institute and the station was upgraded to the status of base, being inaugurated as such on 12 February.\n\nIn 1990 the Alfred Wegener Institute of marine research, Germany, began talks with the Argentine National Antarctic Institute, dealing with the installation of on-site laboratories and aquariums with modern equipment for scientific research. This new facility—named Dallmann Laboratory—was inaugurated on 20 January 1994, has an area of and was built in mainland Argentina, disassembled, carried by ship to Potter Cove, and reassembled at the base.\n\nIn 1994 the LAJUB laboratory for greenhouse effect research was installed in collaboration with the Institute of Atmospheric Physics (IFA), Italy.\n\nOn 5 March 2012, by decree 309/2012 of the Executive, the base was renamed to Base Carlini, after the late researcher Dr. Alejandro Ricardo Carlini, of distinguished trajectory in Antarctic scientific studies.\n\nOn 8 December 2013 Metallica performed a concert at the base, under a small specially-built dome and without amplification due to environmental concerns. The show was streamed worldwide.\n\nSince its upgrade to base status in 1982, Carlini's facilities have been continuously improved; they include: main, emergency, technical staff and personnel houses; weather station; LAJUB Laboratory; Dallmann Laboratory; infirmary; radio station; power plant (both main and auxiliary, just for emergencies); garage and workhouse; freezing chamber; warehouse for supplies; incinerator and compactor for residues; installations for fuel pump, heat generation and fuel filtering and purification; various multiple use buildings; fuel tank array; antenna; heliport; geodetic GPS receiver station and seismography station. This adds to a maximum lodging capacity for 60 people. it has an average winter population of 20 people.\n\nThe base is located next to a colony of more than 16,000 penguins and 650 sea lions. The usual route to reach the base includes a flight from Ushuaia to Marambio Base, and then sailing for a few days.\n\nCarlini enables scientists from different areas to develop advanced research projects in the disciplines of the natural sciences. These tasks increase during the more active summer campaigns. For example, there have been studies on human behavior and its biochemical correlations; ecological aspects of benthic, planktonic and coastal populations; censuses within pinniped colonies (mainly elephant seals and fur seals); physical chemistry and biology of lakes, ponds and other water bodies; tracing of ecotoxicological elements in the Antarctic ecosystem; continuous monitoring of long-term sea level in geology and geophysics operations; coastal ecology and microbiology; effect of UV radiation on marine phytoplankton and bacteria; etc.\n\nAt the Dallmann Laboratory—a German-Argentine cooperation project—multidisciplinary joint research programs are carried out in the fields of biology; coastal and terrestrial ecology; terrestrial wildlife (mostly elephants and seals); pollution effects on birds and fish populations; oceanography; coastal geology; etc.\n\nThe lab has three modules for bedrooms, bathroom and living-dining room, two modules for laboratories and one for the engine room and dive locker. It also has four containers for laboratory and aquarium use donated by Germany.\nIt is equipped with several scientific instruments and vehicles provided by Germany: lyophilizer, stereo microscopes, freezers, a small hyperbaric chamber for transport, scuba diving equipment, aquariums, a rigid hull boat and a Kässbohrer tracked vehicle.\n\nThe Argentine Antarctic Institute, the Netherlands Geosciences Foundation and the Alfred Wegener Institute signed an agreement to provide a biological purification plant ceded by the Netherlands. It consists of a scrubber tank, a treatment and sludge drying plant, as well as facilities and equipment for process control and monitoring, and a set of basic spare parts and fuel reserves.\n\nThe LACAR (Laboratorio Antártico Multidisciplinario Carlini) laboratories -former 'LAJUB' when the station designation was Jubany- are formed by two facilities / buildings: LACAR-Cabildo and LACAR-Catedral.\n\nOf these two buildings, the LACAR-Cabildo is focused on hosting and maintaining different kinds of equipment -belonging to many projects- for the purposes of data collection; while the LACAR-Catedral holds four laboratories for sample handling and analysis related to various scientific disciplines.\n\nThis two buildings, like the rest of the Multidisciplinary Laboratories at the Argentinean permanent Antarctic Stations (LAMBI -at Marambio station-, LABEL -at Belgrano II station-, LABES -at Esperanza station-, LABORC -at Orcadas Station- and LASAN -at San Martín station) are managed by the Scientific Coordination area of the Argentinean Antarctic Institute.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853709", "title": "John Leland (Presbyterian)", "text": "John Leland (Presbyterian)\n\nJohn Leland (1691–1766) was an English Presbyterian minister and author of theological works.\n\nLeland was born in Wigan, Lancashire ,on 18 October 1691. He was educated in Dublin, Ireland (then part of the United Kingdom), and went into the ministry there. He was ordained co-pastor to Nathanael Weld (1660–1730) at New Row Presbyterian Church, Dublin, on 16 December 1716. The church moved to Eustace Street, Dublin in 1728. Nathanael Weld's son Isaac (1710-1778), who was named after Nathanael's friend Sir Isaac Newton, was ordained in Eustace Street in 1732 as Leland's colleague. Isaac Weld and Charles Richard Weld, the writers, were the grandsons of the minister Isaac and thus the great-grandsons of Nathanael. Leland received his Doctor of Divinity degree from the University of Aberdeen in 1739. His main interest was in opposing deism. He critiqued proponents of deist ideas, such as Matthew Tindal.\n\nHe is remembered as the author of \"A view of the principal deistical writers that have appeared in England in the last and present century: with observations upon them, and some account of the answers that have been published against them: in several letters to a friend.\" (1754–1755) 2 vols. (London: Printed for B. Dod) which went through many editions well into the 19th century.\n\n\"A View of the Principal Deistical Writers\" was first published in 1754 and subsequently expanded twice. It is the fullest contemporary treatment of the literature of the deist controversy. Leland gives very detailed reviews of the works of the leading deists, and of the responses that these works provoked. At least one chapter is devoted to each of the following: Peter Annet, Charles Blount, Thomas Chubb, Anthony Collins, Lord Herbert of Cherbury, Thomas Morgan, Shaftesbury, Matthew Tindal, John Toland and Thomas Woolston. Six chapters are about David Hume's views on religion, and approximately half of the work deals with Bolingbroke.\n\nIt was said of him that, \"whatever his early opinions may have been, [he] became an Arian before his death\". \nThe Eustace Street Meeting House where he ministered for 50 years, was a Presbyterian/Unitarian Congtregation, eventually merging with other Unitarian groups in Dublin.\n"}
{"id": "1853710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853710", "title": "Andy Houts", "text": "Andy Houts\n\nAndrew Laurence \"Andy\" Houts (June 23, 1965 – February 26, 1997) was an American actor. Houts began his career at Klasky-Csupo, working on \"The Simpsons\", \"Rugrats\" (where he wrote two episodes), \"Duckman\" and \"Aaahh!!! Real Monsters\" in numerous capacities (most commonly as a production coordinator and an actor). He also wrote one episode of \"Rocko's Modern Life\", and appeared on \"The Drew Carey Show\" and \"Ellen\" in small roles. Houts died in 1997 of a brain tumor before the new season of \"Rugrats\" began. The episode \"\" is dedicated to his memory. He was a gifted comic.\n"}
{"id": "1853711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853711", "title": "Computational epistemology", "text": "Computational epistemology\n\nComputational epistemology is a subdiscipline of formal epistemology that studies the intrinsic complexity of inductive problems for ideal and computationally bounded agents. In short, computational epistemology is to induction what recursion theory is to deduction.\n\nSome of the themes of computational epistemology include:\n\nComputational epistemology definition:\n\nOn making inductive problems easier to solve:\n\nOn the divergence of computational epistemology from Bayesian confirmation theory and the like:\n\nComputational epistemology in a nutshell:\n\nOn the proper role of methodology:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853720", "title": "Nick Cassavetes", "text": "Nick Cassavetes\n\nNicholas David Rowland Cassavetes (born May 21, 1959) is an American actor, director and writer.\n\nCassavetes was born in New York City, the son of actress Gena Rowlands and Greek-American actor and film director John Cassavetes. He was named after his paternal grandfather, Nicholas J. Cassavetes, a Greek immigrant who was a renowned diplomat and travel agent. As a child, he appeared in two of his father's films: \"Husbands\" (1970) and \"A Woman Under the Influence\" (1974). After spending so much of his youth surrounded by the film industry, Cassavetes initially decided he did not want to go into the field. He instead attended Syracuse University on a basketball scholarship. His athletic career was effectively ended by an injury, and he decided to rethink his aspirations, ultimately deciding to attend his parents' alma mater, the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York.\n\nHe has appeared in the films \"Face/Off\", \"The Wraith\", \"Life\", \"\", \"Backstreet Dreams\" and \"The Astronaut's Wife\", among others. He has directed several films, including \"John Q\", \"Alpha Dog\", \"She's So Lovely\", \"Unhook the Stars\", \"The Notebook\", and \"My Sister's Keeper\". He also adapted the screenplay for \"Blow\" and wrote the dialogue for the Justin Timberlake music video \"What Goes Around... Comes Around\".\n\nCassavetes finished in fifth place in the World Poker Tour (WPT) Invitational Season 5, attempting a bluff. He also appeared on season 5 of The Game Show Network's (GSN) \"High Stakes Poker\".\n\nHe also has played himself in the season 7 opener of \"Entourage\" on HBO and Tattoo Joe as a cameo in \"\", replacing Liam Neeson from the cast due to scheduling conflicts.\n\nIn 1985, Cassavetes married Isabelle Rafalovich. They had two daughters together, Virginia Sara “Gina” (born 1986) and Sasha (born 1988), before divorcing. Sasha was born with a heart defect and underwent substantial surgery; Cassavetes' film \"John Q.\" was dedicated to Sasha, and his later adaptation of \"My Sister's Keeper\" was based in part on Sasha's medical experience. \n\nCassavetes later married Heather \"Queenie\" Wahlquist, who has appeared in several of his films, including a small role in \"The Notebook\" as Sara, a secondary character and best friend to the female lead Allie Hamilton, portrayed by Rachel McAdams. Cassavetes' own mother, Gena Rowlands, appears as the older, married Allie (Hamilton) Calhoun.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853724", "title": "I Heard They Suck Live!!", "text": "I Heard They Suck Live!!\n\nI Heard They Suck Live!! is a live album by NOFX. It was recorded January 8 and 9, 1995 in a Hollywood, CA club. The name or exact location of the club was not disclosed at the time for royalty reasons. According to their website, the album was recorded at the Roxy in Hollywood.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853726", "title": "Abu Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdani", "text": "Abu Muhammad al-Hasan al-Hamdani\n\nAbu Muhammad al-Ḥasan ibn Aḥmad ibn Yaqub al-Hamdani (279/280-333/334 A.H. / 893-945 A.D; ) was an Arab Muslim geographer, chemist, poet, grammarian, historian, and astronomer, from the tribe of Banu Hamdan, western 'Amran, Yemen. He was one of the best representatives of Islamic culture during the last period of the Abbasid Caliphate. His work was the subject of extensive 19th-century Austrian scholarship.\n\nThe biographical details of al-Hamdani's life are scant, despite his extensive scientific work. He was held in high repute as a grammarian, wrote much poetry, compiled astronomical tables and is said to have devoted most of his life to the study of the ancient history and geography of Arabia.\n\nBefore he was born his family had lived in al-Marashi (المراشي). Then they moved to Sana'a (صنعاء), where al-Hamdani was born in the year 893. His father had been a traveller and had visited Kufa, Baghdad, Basra, Oman and Egypt. At around the age of seven, al-Marashi started to talk about his desire to travel. Somewhat later he left for Mecca, where he remained and studied for more than six years, after which he departed for Sa'dah (صعدة). There he gathered information on Khawlaan (خولان). Later, he went back to Sanaa and became interested in the land that was Himyar (حمْير), but was imprisoned for two years due to his political views. After his release from prison, he went to Raydah (ريدة) to live under the protection of his own tribe. He compiled most of his books while there and stayed on until his death in 945.\n\nHis \"Geography of the Arabian Peninsula\" (\"Sifat Jazirat ul-Arab\") is by far the most important work on the subject. The manuscript was used by Austrian orientalist, Aloys Sprenger in his \"Post- und Reiserouten des Orients\" (Leipzig, 1864) and further in his \"Alte Geographie Arabiens\" (Bern, 1875), and was edited by D.H. Müller (Leiden, 1884; cf. Sprenger's criticism in \"Zeitschrift der deutschen morgenländischen Gesellschaft\", vol. 45, pp. 361–394).\n\nHis work has been the subject of extensive research and publications by the Austrian Arabist, Eduard Glaser, a specialist on ancient Arabia. The other great work of al-Hamdānī is his ten volume, \"Iklil\" (the Diadem), concerning the genealogies of the Himyarites and the wars waged by their kings. Volume 8, on the citadels and castles of southern Arabia, has been translated into German, edited and annotated by D.H.Müller as \"Die Burgen und Schlösser Sudarabiens\" (Vienna, 1881).\n\nOther works said to have been written by al-Hamdani are listed in G. L. Flügel's \"Die grammatischen Schulen der Araber\" (Leipzig, 1862), pp. 220–221.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853730", "title": "John Leland (Baptist)", "text": "John Leland (Baptist)\n\nJohn Leland (May 14, 1754 – January 14, 1841) was an American Baptist minister who preached in Massachusetts and Virginia, as well as an outspoken abolitionist. He was an important figure in the struggle for religious liberty in the United States. Leland also later opposed the rise of missionary societies among Baptists.\n\nLeland was born on May 14, 1754, in Grafton, Massachusetts.\nHis parents were Congregationalists He married Sarah Devine and they had nine children, Betsy, Hannah, Polly, John, Sally, Lucy, Fanny, Nancy, & Lemuel.\n\nHe was baptized in June 1774 by Elder Noah Alden. Leland joined the Baptist Church in Bellingham, Massachusetts in 1775. He left for Virginia in 1775 or 1776, and ministered there until 1791, when he returned to Massachusetts.\n\nDuring the 1788-89 election while still living in Virginia, Leland threw his support behind James Madison due to Madison's support for religious liberty in what became the First Amendment to the Constitution, and Madison was seated in the first Congress that same year. Leland returned to Massachusetts in 1791 the year the Bill of Rights was ratified, leaving Virginia after an anti-slavery sermon. Back in New England, Leland helped to found several Baptist congregations in Connecticut, to which President Jefferson later wrote his famous letter to the Baptists of Danbury, Connecticut in 1802 regarding religious freedom.\n\nA well-known incident in Leland's life was the Cheshire Mammoth Cheese. The people of Cheshire, Massachusetts made and sent a giant block of cheese to President Thomas Jefferson. Leland took the block from Cheshire to Washington, D. C., and presented it to Jefferson on January 1, 1802. While there, Leland was even invited to preach to the Congress and the President. Of this incident he wrote, \"In November, 1801 I journeyed to the south, as far as Washington, in charge of a cheese, sent to President Jefferson. Notwithstanding my trust, I preached all the way there and on my return. I had large congregations; let in part by curiosity to hear the Mammoth Priest, as I was called.\" He was invited to preach a message of religious liberty in Congress upon his arrival.\n\nFor Michael I. Meyerson, Leland was the most prominent religious figure of the founding era to champion universal religious freedom. John M. Cobin says that Leland held, in seminal form, to the \"liberty of conscience\" position on public policy theology.\n\nLeland died on January 14, 1841 in North Adams, Massachusetts. His tombstone reads, \"Here lies the body of John Leland, of Cheshire, who labored 67 years to promote piety and vindicate the civil and religious rights of all men.\"\n\nHe was known as a hymn writer; \"The Day Is Past and Gone, The Evening Shades Appear\" has been included in 391 hymnals. Several of his hymns are preserved in the Sacred Harp.\n\nLeland opposed theological seminaries. Ironically, The John Leland Center for Theological Studies in Virginia is named in his honor. The school was named for Leland for three reasons: his firm stand for religious liberty for all, his opposition to slavery, and his service as a pastor and evangelist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853736", "title": "Trouble (band)", "text": "Trouble (band)\n\nTrouble is an American doom metal band from Aurora, Illinois, formed in 1979 and considered one of the pioneers of the genre alongside Candlemass and Saint Vitus. The band created a distinct style taking influences of the British heavy metal bands Black Sabbath and Judas Priest, and psychedelic rock of the 1970s. A critically acclaimed group, their first two albums, \"Psalm 9\" and \"The Skull\", are cited as landmarks of doom metal. To date, Trouble has released eight studio albums. Although the band never officially broke up, Trouble was plagued by extended inactivity after their original singer Eric Wagner left in 1997. He eventually rejoined in 2000 before leaving again eight years later.\n\nThe nucleus of the band had been vocalist Eric Wagner, guitarists Rick Wartell and Bruce Franklin, and drummer Jeff Olson. The band is also noted for the spiritual nature of their early lyrics; their first record label, Metal Blade Records, marketed the band as \"white metal\" (in contrast to the rising black metal movement) in the 1980s.\n\nTrouble was formed in 1979 by Rick Wartell and was joined by guitarist Bruce Franklin, vocalist Eric Wagner, bassist Tim Ian Brown (not to be confused with lead singer of English band The Stone Roses), and drummer Jeff Olson. Ian Brown was replaced by Sean McAllister in 1983. Drawing from Black Sabbath for inspiration (with occasional nods to the psychedelic sounds of the late 1960s), the band used gloomy down-tuned riffs and spiritual, often openly Bible-inspired lyrics, which led Metal Blade to market the band as \"white metal\" as opposed to black metal. \"I was brought up Catholic\", vocalist and primary lyric writer Wagner explains in the liner notes of \"Psalm 9\" re-issue (2006), \"but you have to remember, back in the early 1980s, all the metal was kind of satanic, and I did not get into that vibe.\" Wagner has implied that Metal Blade actually came up with the term in the first place, which the band rejected: \"I think it was more like Metal Blade trying to be cute or something, with everything [satanic metal] being called black metal, why not call us white metal, which is a bunch of crap.\"\nThe band toured throughout the Midwest during the early 1980s. On February 5, 1983, the band recorded Trouble Live in Chicago. Drummer Jeff Olson mailed the cassette to Brian Slagel of Metal Blade Records and the band landed their first record deal. Trouble released their eponymous debut (later referred to as \"Psalm 9\") with Metal Blade Records in 1984. \"The Skull\" followed in 1985 and reflected singer Wagner's struggles with substance abuse as well as growing turmoil within the group. This led to the replacement of bassist McAllister with Ron Holzner. Drummer Jeff Olson also departed. Reports suggested that Olson had left the band to become a preacher, but he had actually decided to pursue studies at Berklee College of Music in Boston. Dennis Lesh was drafted as his replacement for 1987's \"Run to the Light\". In comparison to earlier recordings, the critics thought \"Run to the Light\" was \"disappointing\". Ted Kirkpatrick played drums during the \"Run to the Light\" tour before he went to form his own band, Tourniquet in 1989.\n\nA three-year hiatus occurred before the band was snapped up by Rick Rubin's Def American Records for whom they recorded a second self-titled album (\"Trouble\") in 1990 with Rubin producing. More experimental than previous efforts, the album (featuring new drummer Barry Stern, formerly of Zoetrope) expanded upon the group's tentative psychedelic notions within its traditional use of power chords.\n\nThe group embarked on a year-long tour before returning to the studio. In 1992 \"Manic Frustration\" was released, delving into Beatlesque psychedelia and featuring some of Trouble's most aggressive, energetic performances ever. But after the album failed to connect with a wider audience, the band was ultimately dropped by their record company, which was experiencing financial problems.\n\nThe band issued \"Plastic Green Head\" through the Music for Nations label in 1995 with the return of founding drummer Jeff Olson.\n\nEven though Trouble had gone on an extended hiatus after Wagner's departure, rumors of an eventual re-formation persisted. From 1997 to 2000, Wagner was replaced by former Exhorder singer Kyle Thomas, who played four public gigs with Trouble.\n\nOn January 26, 2002, Wagner, Franklin, Wartell, Holzner and Olson performed a short set in Chicago where during their smoking rendition of Black Sabbaths' Children of The Grave with Scott Davidson sitting in on the drums, the P.A. gave out and left the crowd in a stunned uproar. Since that time, the band has played individual gigs throughout the Chicago area and headlined metal festivals in Europe and the U.S. while working on a new album. A concert in Stockholm, Sweden in 2005 produced the live DVD \"Trouble – Live in Stockholm\" with members Eric Wagner, Rick Wartell, Bruce Franklin, Jeff Olson, and Chuck Robinson.\n\nIn February 2004, Dave Grohl of Nirvana and the Foo Fighters released a tribute album that paid homage to his metal roots. Entitled Probot, the disc featured various vocalists, including Eric Wagner, who sang on the track \"My Tortured Soul\". In the album's liner notes, Grohl wrote that buying \"Psalm 9\" was like buying \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\nHolzner left the band soon after, to be replaced by Chuck Robinson, who played on the band's newest studio album, \"Simple Mind Condition\", which was released in Europe on April 3, 2007, by Escapi Music. The band toured internationally in support of its release, but were not able to secure a U.S. release date for the album until over two years later. An unplugged album was later released through the band's website and, more recently, Escapi Music.\n\nIn May, 2008, it was announced that Eric Wagner has left the band and had been replaced by Kory Clarke of Warrior Soul. Jeff Olson also announced his departure from the band in July 2008 to continue with his own band, Retro Grave. Olson's last show with Trouble was, coincidentally, at a rock club called, \"The End\" in Memphis, Tenn. Olson was replaced by Wet Animal's Mark Lira for the band's upcoming U.S. East Coast tour.\n\nIn a September 2008 interview with Rock N Roll Experience, guitarist Rick Wartell mentioned that Trouble has written \"eight or nine songs\" for their next album, and would begin recording it after touring. When asked which direction is the new music going in, Wartell replied, \"I know people have said this a million times and I know you've heard this a million times, but it's pretty fucking heavy, let's put it that way! The music end of it that Bruce [Franklin, guitar] and I are writing is getting heavier and heavier...it's getting heavier and then we want Kory to incorporate his style to what we are doing, that's basically all that we really want out of this.\"\n\nOn November 18, 2008, Trouble announced, via their website, that they were in the process of writing songs for an album that would likely be released in the summer of 2009. A live bootleg recording featuring the new line-up was released via the band's website in 2008, then worldwide by Escapi Music about one year later. On March 4, 2009, Trouble revealed on their website that the new album would tentatively be called \"The Dark Riff\". On September 9, 2010, the band announced that they are \"getting ready for the studio now. [We] have been making preliminary recordings and working out things in order to bring the best possible Trouble release.\" Bruce Franklin later said in a 2009 interview that \"The Dark Riff\" would not be the title of the forthcoming album.\nIn February 2012, Kory Clarke left Trouble. Kyle Thomas, who was with the band from 1997 to 2000, took his place. Also in February, 2012, two original members of Trouble — vocalist Eric Wagner and drummer Jeff Olson — joined forces with the band's longtime bassist Ron Holzner in a new heavy rock/doom metal act called The Skull. According to a statement on the band's Facebook page, \"The Skull is here to do one thing... rock you with the sounds and spirit of Trouble — past, present, future. The Skull is planning a thirty-year celebration tour of Trouble's debut album, Psalm 9 in 2014.\n\nOn February 16, 2013, Jeff Olson announced that he would be playing some keyboard intros on the new album. In May 2013, it was announced that the new album, \"The Distortion Field\", was scheduled to be released July 16 in North America and July 26 in Europe. This is the first release to feature Kyle Thomas, and was produced by Bill Metoyer. Shortly after its release, Rob Hultz of Solace and Godspeed joined the band as bassist.\n\nTrouble is currently writing new material for their next studio album, which is possibly due for release in 2016.\n\nTrouble's music lies with a traditional doom metal style, although their albums since 1990's Trouble showcase a more stoner-metal oriented style. Band members have cited influences by the early heavy rock bands of the 1970s such as Deep Purple, Led Zeppelin, Budgie, and Black Sabbath, Trouble have also incorporated elements of psychedelic rock to their style. Their use of slow tempos was notable at a time when NWOBHM and thrash metal bands were increasingly incorporating fast-picking and speed into their songwriting. While most slow songs by metal bands border into the area of ballads, all of the tracks on Trouble's second album The Skull are as heavy as they are slow, with a distinctive fuzzy distortion and melodic, integral (rather than superfluous or ostentatious) guitar solos. The band could best be described as combining the riffs and tempos of Black Sabbath with the twin guitar attack of Judas Priest.\n\nEric Wagner's lyrics deal with different themes, but the early Trouble albums, such as their debut Psalm 9, are known for biblical references. Especially because such themes were relatively uncommon in mainstream metal music of the 1980s, Trouble were then often classified as Christian metal. Other songs deal with social issues; \"Bastards Will Pay,\" for instance, criticises politicians as hypocritical. From \"Manic Frustration\" onwards, more lyrical references have been made to psychedelia, drugs, and hallucinations; \"Hello Strawberry Skies\" and \"Mr. White\" stand out as two examples. Corresponding with the increase in psychedelic lyrical themes, Trouble's overall sound has also had a noticeably stronger psychedelic component. Also, unlike other metal acts of the 1980s, Trouble's members dress in ripped jeans, tight T-shirts, wear round sunglasses and have fringes and outfit accessories more characteristic of the hippie movement such as bandanas and knee patches.\n\nProblems with both the Metal Blade and Def American labels made it impossible for Trouble to achieve large commercial success. Even though their music videos were aired on MTV in both the U.S. and Europe, \"Manic Frustration\" was the only album that sold close to 100,000 copies. However, Eduardo Rivadavia of Allmusic wrote that \"their preservation efforts nevertheless rescued metal's original blueprint from disuse, and carved it in granite for subsequent exploration by each new generation of doom bands that followed.\" It was said that Trouble took up where Black Sabbath had left off after their split with vocalist Ozzy Osbourne. \"Psalm 9\" and \"The Skull\" are often cited as the cornerstones of doom metal as well influencing other bands of the uprising metal movement during the mid-1980s. A famous story states that James Hetfield and Kirk Hammett from Metallica entered Trouble's stage after a concert, trying to figure out how their amplifiers were set to produce their unique sound.\n\nTrouble's first two albums were critically acclaimed and are respected in the metal scene. The following album \"Run to the Light\", however, was said to be \"disappointing,\" but a different direction was taken during the Def American era, when Rick Rubin helped the band to develop a new, unique style. The self-titled album gained \"magnificent reviews in all the major heavy metal rags\" and the psychedelic \"Manic Frustration\" was \"critically lauded, cult-raved heavy metal masterpiece.\" The 1995's \"Plastic Green Head\" received good reviews, and \"the album's songs also exuded a palpable sense of wary acceptance.\" However, Trouble was never thought of as a completely unique group; some critiques dismissed the band as a \"poor man's Black Sabbath\". Nevertheless, Trouble's influence on the metal movement is unquestioned.\n\nCurrent\nFormer\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853741", "title": "Maximum Rocknroll (album)", "text": "Maximum Rocknroll (album)\n\nMaximum Rocknroll is an album by NOFX. \n\"Maximum Rocknroll\" was originally released on cassette in 1989 by Mystic Records and again three years later on LP and CD.\n\nWhen the original cassette was released in 1989, it was released under a different title, E is for Everything, though the track listing was identical to the other formats. \"E is for Everything\" is currently out of print. The tape also had a different cover, similar to the band's 1985 self-titled EP which depicts a skull with a syringe. The cover of the 1992 version depicts Fat Mike playing his bass.\n\nDespite being referred to as an official release, Fat Mike has been quoted as saying that he was not aware of the album's existence until he saw a copy of it \"in a store.\" He has also been critical of the album, calling it a \"totally sucky record\", and added, \"If you want to hear a totally crappy fucked album then this is the one for you. Don't say I didn't warn you.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853747", "title": "Jeremy McGrath", "text": "Jeremy McGrath\n\nJeremy McGrath (born November 19, 1971) is one of the most popular American Motocross/Supercross champions in the history of the sport, racking up 7 Supercross championships. He was most active in the 1990s earning the title the \"King of Supercross.\" McGrath didn't start riding motocross until the age of 14 because he spent his younger years riding BMX. That experience helped him revolutionize the way supercross was ridden, employing a technique he learned in BMX allowing him to stay a foot or two lower over jumps by coming in with more speed then soaking up the landing into his body similar to the way you ride BMX. One of his BMX \"tricks\" during jumps on the supercross track, the most famous of which he called the \"Nac Nac\", helped spawn the sport of freestyle motocross. McGrath won the AMA Pro Athlete of the Year Award in 1996. Still competitive in Motorcycle racing, he has tried his hand in many types of motorcycle competition. Lately he has expanded into off-road trucks in the Pro 2WD division of the LOORS Series and occasionally tries his hand at stock car racing. McGrath lives in Southern California with his wife Kim and daughters Rhowan and Bergen. McGrath has the privilege of being the first rookie ever to win the AMA 250cc Supercross Championship, in 1993.\n\nMcGrath began racing motocross at the age of 15 after a successful career in BMX. He placed 8th in the 125cc West Region Supercross season of 1989. In 1990 he won his first supercross race and placed 2nd in that season. McGrath won the 125 West Supercross title in 1991 and 1992.\n\nMcGrath won a record of seventy-two 250cc Main Events and captured seven 250cc supercross championships between 1993 and 2000, a time now known as the \"McGrath Era.\". He also won the 1995 250 Outdoor Motocross Championship and had the 1996 title in sight before a late-season injury handed the title to Jeff Emig. He described the loss as follows: \"\"I get mad at myself a little bit because I should’ve won the ’96 title too, but I was thinking I was invincible and tried a jump at Millville that I never should have attempted and got injured.\"\" McGrath also participated in two victories by the U.S. team at the Motocross des Nations –1993 in Austria and 1996 in Spain. His 1998, 1999, 2000 seasons with The Chaparral Motorsports race team was the 1st non-factory team, in the history of the sport, to win a Supercross Championship\n\nHe started the 2001 season in typically strong form; winning 2 of the first 3 main events. However, he lost the next event to Team Kawasaki's Ricky Carmichael. Carmichael would then win every race from there on out; dethroning McGrath as Supercross champion and equalling his 1996 win record of 13 consecutive main event victories. McGrath returned in 2002 to take a shot at regaining his crown, but chronic arm pump (Compartment Syndrome) and perhaps age caught up with him, and he could only muster a 3rd place in the final standings behind Carmichael and Yamaha's David Vuillemin.\n\nFor 2003, he signed with Team KTM, but a pre-season crash on the much-maligned KTM 250SX made him rethink his future in racing and he decided to retire on the eve of the 2003 Supercross season. He did a farewell tour with KTM to show his appreciation and sign autographs for fans.\n\nHe holds the second best record for most combined AMA Supercross and motocross victories with 89 career wins; only Ricky Carmichael has won more.\n\nIn 2005, McGrath came out of retirement to race a limited schedule on the Supercross circuit. He rejoined forces with his former Team Honda squad and has recently proven to be at a competitive level and speed that has not been seen from McGrath since the 2001 season. At the age of 34, he placed regularly in the top 5 positions. In the same year, Jeremy also raced Supermoto in the X-Games and placed 2nd to take home the silver medal. McGrath switched motorcycles from his trademark Honda CR250R 2-stroke to a Honda CRF450R 4-stroke at Round 3 of the 2006 Supercross season. In keeping with his partial schedule, McGrath withdrew from the series after Round Six, after earning multiple top 5 finishes, and running as high as fourth in the point standings. Jeremy competed in the 2006 Summer X Games; earning a 2nd in Step-Up and 7th in Supermoto. He announced plans for the McGrath Invitational; an off-season supercross race with an innovative track and huge purse. McGrath announced that the 2006 Invitational would be the final professional Supercross race of his career. McGrath was inducted into the AMA Motorcycle Hall of Fame in 2003.\n\n\nOverall AMA Career Wins: 89\n\n\nIn April 2007, he announced he had signed a driver development contract with the NASCAR team JR Motorsports owned by Dale Earnhardt, Jr. with Monster Energy Drink sponsoring.\n\nMcGrath has occasionally raced in off-road races in the late 2000s. He has finished in the Top 10 in several PRO-2 races. In 2017, he won the championship in the Pro 2 division of the Lucas Oil Off Road Racing Series.\n\n\nIn September 2005, McGrath teamed up with long-time friends Ken Faught and Jason Williams to create a state-of-the-art indoor go-kart track called Pole Position Raceway. The track uses environmentally friendly electric karts that produce 20-horsepower.\n\nHe was inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853749", "title": "Frankenstein Conquers the World", "text": "Frankenstein Conquers the World\n\n\"Frankenstein Conquers the World\" was released in Japan on August 8, 1965 and was given a theatrical release in the United States on July 8, 1966 by American International Pictures. In 1966, Toho/UPA released a sequel titled \"The War of the Gargantuas\".\n\nDuring World War II in Nazi Germany, Nazi officers confiscate the heart of Frankenstein's monster from Dr. Riesendorf and pass it on to the Imperial Japanese Navy, who take it to the in Hiroshima for further experimentation. As the experiments begin, Hiroshima is bombed with a nuclear weapon by the Americans. 15 years later, a feral boy runs rampant in the streets of Hiroshima, catching and devouring small animals. This comes to the attention of American scientist Dr. James Bowen and his assistants, Drs. Sueko Togami and Ken'ichiro Kawaji. A year later, they find the boy hiding in a cave on a beach, cornered by outraged villagers. Bowen and his team take care of the boy and discover that he is building a strong resistance to radiation. \n\nThe former Imperial Navy officer Kawai, who brought the heart to Hiroshima's army hospital, is now working in an oil factory in Akita Prefecture, when a sudden earthquake destroys the refinery. Kawai catches a glimpse of a non-human monster within a fissure before it disappears. Meanwhile, Bowen and his team find out that the strange boy is growing in size due to an intake of protein. Afraid of his strength, the scientists lock and chain the boy in a cage and Sueko, who cares for him, feeds him some protein-filled food to sustain him. Bowen is visited by Kawai, who tells him that the boy could have grown from the heart of Frankenstein's monster, as the boy was seen in Hiroshima more than once before. At Bowen's advice, Kawaji confers with Riesendorf in Frankfurt. Riesendorf recommends cutting off a limb, speculating that a new one will grow back. Sueko and Bowen strongly object to this method.\n\nIgnoring Bowen's suggestion to think it over, Kawaji tenaciously attempts to sever one of the limbs of the boy-turned-giant, now called \"Frankenstein\". He is interrupted by a TV crew, who enrage Frankenstein with bright studio lights and Frankenstein breaks loose. Frankenstein visits Sueko at her apartment before disappearing. Unbeknownst to Bowen and his team, the subterranean monster Baragon ravages various villages. The Japanese authorities and media believe this to be Frankenstein's doing, and the monster narrowly escapes being hunted down by the Self Defense Forces. Before Bowen and his team dismiss Frankenstein, Kawai returns to tell them that Frankenstein may not be responsible for the disasters; it could be the monster (Baragon) he saw in Akita. He tries to convince the authorities but to no avail. Kawaji still wishes the scientists luck in finding and saving Frankenstein.\n\nBowen, Sueko, and Kawaji attempt to find Frankenstein on their own. To Bowen and Sueko's shock, Kawaji reveals his plans to kill Frankenstein by blinding him with grenades, in order to recover his heart and his brain. Kawaji presses on to find Frankenstein but finds Baragon instead. Kawaji and Bowen try in vain to stop the monster with the grenades. Frankenstein emerges in time to save Sueko and engages Baragon. The monsters battle until Frankenstein snaps Baragon's neck. Then the earth beneath them collapses and swallows them. Kawaji states that the immortal heart will live on and they may one day see him again, but Bowen believes that Frankenstein is better off dead.\n\nToho had always been interested in the Frankenstein character as, in 1961, producer Tomoyuki Tanaka commissioned a film project called \"Frankenstein vs. the Human Vapor\". Acting as a sequel to the 1960 film \"The Human Vapor\", the Mizuno character from that film finds the Frankenstein Monster's body, and revives him, so that he can help him use the Frankenstein formula to revive his beloved girlfriend Fujichiyo (who had died at the end of said film). As a rough draft of the story was being written by Takeshi Kimura (using the pen name Kaoru Mabuchi), it was ultimately cancelled before the draft was finished.\n\nIn 1962, Toho purchased a script from an independent producer from America named John Beck called \"King Kong vs. Prometheus\". Beck had stolen the story treatment (which was originally called \"King Kong Meets Frankenstein\") from Willis O'Brien and had George Worthing Yates flesh it out into a screenplay. Toho wanted to have King Kong fight their own monster Godzilla instead of the Frankenstein giant in the original story and, after working out a deal with Beck as well as RKO, the copyright holder of King Kong at the time, produced \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\".\n\nInfluenced by the concept of the giant Frankenstein monster from the \"King Kong vs. Prometheus\" story, Toho planned on making \"Frankenstein vs. Godzilla\" as a follow-up to \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\". Written in 1963 by Kimura, the story dealt with the heart of the original Frankenstein monster becoming irradiated and growing into a Frankenstein-monster giant. Afraid the giant would start eating people, Godzilla would be freed from an icy prison by the JSDF and goaded into a fight with the monster in hopes of killing him. Even though \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" had already been made with Godzilla escaping from an iceberg that he was trapped in at the end of \"Godzilla Raids Again\", script writer Mabuchi thought with Godzilla disappearing into the ocean at the end of that film, that the idea of Godzilla becoming frozen in the North Sea into another icy prison could still work. The story would end with natural disasters defeating the monsters as Godzilla disappears into a raging river flow, and the Frankenstein giant disappears into magma caused by an erupting volcano.\n\nToho was not fond of the logistics of the story, so the idea was dropped. When the \"Godzilla\" series would resume a year later in 1964, Mothra was brought in as Godzilla's next opponent for the film \"Mothra vs. Godzilla\" instead.\n\nIn 1965, they would finally co-produce the story with financial backing from Henry G. Saperstein's film company Henry G. Saperstein Enterprises into this film. A new dinosaurian opponent named Baragon was created to replace Godzilla as Frankenstein's opponent, and the script was slightly altered. Most of the concepts from the original story treatment were retained in this version, such as the irradiated heart of the monster, the monster's relentless pursuit of food, and a natural disaster defeating the monster during the climax. In addition, most of the characters from the original story such as research scientist Dr. Bowen (played by Nick Adams), would be retained. In the American version, Jerry Sohl would get credit for a synopsis and executive producer Reuben Bercovitch would get credit for the story.\n\nKoji Furuhata earned the role of Frankenstein's monster through an open audition. Furuhata wore green contact lenses to emulate a Caucasian look, a flat-head prosthetic and brow resembling Jack Pierce's Frankenstein Monster design, and large shirts and loincloths. Honda had originally wanted to explore more of the science-gone-wrong theme, but was forced to change the story in the middle to reach a climactic monster battle. Nick Adams delivered all of his lines in English, while everyone else delivered their lines in Japanese.\n\nHenry G. Saperstein had requested an alternative ending for the international release in which Frankenstein battled a giant octopus. This resulted in the cast and crew being reassembled after principal photography and post-production had wrapped, as well as building a new set and creating the octopus. Despite filming the new ending, Saperstein ended up cutting it regardless because he believed the octopus \"wasn't that good\".\n\nWhen the film was in production, trade magazines listed this film's title as \"Frankenstein vs. the Giant Devilfish\". Honda had stated that the reason why the octopus ending was initially requested was because the American co-producers were \"astonished\" by the octopus scene in \"King Kong vs. Godzilla\" and wanted a similar scene. Honda also confirmed that various endings were shot, stating: \"In fact Mr. Tsuburaya had shot five or six final scenes for this film. The infamous giant octopus is only one of these endings.\" Honda also expressed that the alternate ending was never intended to be released on the Japanese version, stating: \"there was never any official plan to utilize the sequence; but an alternative print with that ending was accidentally aired on television surprising many Japanese fans because it was not the ending they had remembered from the original theatrical release.\"\n\nWhen Benedict Pictures would co-produce the film's sequel, \"The War of the Gargantuas,\" with Toho the following year, a giant octopus sequence would be shot again (a marine-based battle between the Oodako and Gaira) that would remain intact in both versions of the film.\n\nThe film was released in Japan on August 8, 1965, two days after the 20th anniversary of the Hiroshima bombing. The film grossed ¥93 million during its Japanese theatrical run. The film was released theatrically in the United States as \"Frankenstein Conquers the World\" on July 8, 1966 by American International Pictures. This version was dubbed in English by Titan Productions and restored Adams' original English dialogue.\n\nIn June 2007, Tokyo Shock released \"Frankenstein Conquers the World\" on a two-disc DVD, the first time the film was released on DVD in North America. This version includes the original Japanese theatrical version, the original American English version from American International Pictures (running at 84 minutes), and the international version with the alternate giant octopus ending (running at 93 minutes). All three versions were presented in widescreen. The international version (titled \"Frankenstein vs. the Giant Devilfish\") features an audio commentary by Sadamasa Arikawa, the film's special effects photographer. Disc two features two Japanese trailers, deleted scenes, and a photo gallery, which was provided by Ed Godziszewski (editor of \"Japanese Giants\" and author of \"The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Godzilla\"). In November 2017, Toho released the film on Blu-ray in Japan. This release also includes an HD remaster of the international version, \"Frankenstein vs. the Giant Devilfish\".\n\nThe following year, Toho released a sequel titled \"The War of the Gargantuas\", also co-produced with UPA. In the film, pieces of Frankenstein's cells mutate into two giant humanoid monsters: Sanda (the Brown Gargantua) and Gaira (the Green Gargantua). The former is a benevolent and peace-loving creature, the latter is murderous and savage. Apart from a reference to a severed hand, UPA obscured all references to Frankenstein in the American version and the names of the monsters were changed to the Brown Gargantua and the Green Gargantua. Gaira and Sanda would later appear in two of Toho's \"tokusatsu\" series, \"Ike! Godman\" and \"Ike! Greenman\", before remaining absent for over 40 years, with Gaira making his latest appearance in a 2008 \"Go! Godman\" special.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853750", "title": "Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley", "text": "Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley\n\nCarnegie Mellon Silicon Valley is a branch campus of Carnegie Mellon University located in the heart of Silicon Valley in Mountain View, California. It was established in 2002 at the NASA Ames Research Center in Moffett Field. The campus offers full-time and part-time professional Masters programs in Electrical And Computer Engineering, Software Engineering and Software Management, various bi-coastal (split-time between Pittsburgh and Silicon Valley) Masters programs in Information Technology, and a bi-coastal Ph.D. program in Electrical and Computer Engineering. One key differentiator between programs in the traditional Pittsburgh campus and the new Silicon Valley campus is a new focus on project-centered \"learning by doing\" approach to education.\n\nAfter years of planning from the Pittsburgh campus, Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley opened in September 2002 under the name \"Carnegie Mellon University - West Campus\" to an original class of 56 students. Carnegie Mellon had always had a reputation for graduating bright students in engineering and technology, so it seemed only natural to establish a physical presence in the Silicon Valley, the epicenter of entrepreneurship, technology and innovation. James H. Morris, the Dean of the School of Computer Science at the Pittsburgh campus, was instrumental in establishing the West Coast initiative and served as the new campus' first dean. Raj Reddy, a Turing Award recipient and computer science professor at the Pittsburgh campus, was the school's first director. In 2008, the university's name was changed to Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley to better reflect the proximity and opportunity to Silicon Valley. In 2009, Dean Morris ended his appointment, and the College of Engineering (also known as Carnegie Institute of Technology or \"CIT\") at Carnegie Mellon University partnered with the Silicon Valley campus to bring more resources and a stronger connection to the main campus. In 2012, Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley celebrated its 10th anniversary.\n\nCarnegie Mellon Silicon Valley is located on NASA's Ames Research Center in Moffett Field. The campus (or in particular Moffett Field), is surrounded by high-tech companies such as Google, Microsoft, Yahoo, HP, and Lockheed Martin. Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley currently occupies Building 23 and since January 2011, a wing in Building 19, which provides space for full-time masters students, faculty and researchers. An extension for Building 19 has been in use since Fall 2012.\n\nIn Fall 2002, Carnegie Mellon initiated a full-time and part-time Master of Science in Software Engineering degree. This program is offered under the Electrical and Computer Engineering department, and is only offered at the Silicon Valley campus. It focuses deeply on software engineering principles, and students are required to take courses in Software Engineering and Design, Analysis, and Systems. Through ties with local companies such as Google, Apple, Facebook, Microsoft, VMWare, IBM, Oracle, and Cisco, students often participate in internships, sponsored projects, and hackathons.\n\nIn Fall 2008, Carnegie Mellon initiated the Software Management Masters program. The program targets senior software developers and managers that wish to pursue senior management and executive careers. The full-time MSSM program focuses on Product Management, Strategy Development, Entrepreneurship, Enterprise Innovation, and Service Management.\n\nFor several years, Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley operated a long-distance capability to Pittsburgh's Tepper School of Business.\n\nIn Fall 2009, Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley initiated bi-coastal master's degree programs in Information Technology with specializations in Mobility and Information Security through the Information Networking Institute. In the bi-coastal programs, students are required to divide their time between the campuses in Pittsburgh and Silicon Valley and also complete an approved internship.\n\nThe Masters in ECE program has equivalent course requirements between the Pittsburgh and Silicon Valley campuses. The Silicon Valley campus offers strong faculty and courses in the fields of software engineering, security, wireless sensors, mobile computing, machine learning, and wireless networking.\n\nThe bi-coastal Technology Ventures degree is an interdisciplinary program offered by the Integrated Innovation Institute. This program is aimed at entrepreneurs to gain the skills necessary to successfully launch a business or venture. Students are required to spend time at both the Pittsburgh and Silicon Valley campuses. Students gain knowledge of fundamental engineering and emerging technology at the Pittsburgh campus, and gain skills of business, entrepreneurship, venture management, and product innovation at the Silicon Valley campus.\n\nIn Fall 2008, a Ph.D. program in Electrical and Computer Engineering was initiated, offering students opportunities for advanced studies and research in the fields of mobility, security, and wireless sensors and networking.\n\nApproximately 350 students are enrolled in Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley's academic programs. With its strong technical support for long-distance learning, about 25% of the part-time student population reside outside of the Bay Area. However, with its unique location in Silicon Valley, many local students stem from prominent companies such as Yahoo, Google, IBM, Lockheed Martin, Oracle, Boeing and Microsoft, providing a vibrant environment with many diverse corporate experiences.\n\nOver 600 alumni have graduated from the Silicon Valley campus since 2002, adding to the over 6000 Carnegie Mellon alumni working in the Bay Area.\n\nThe campus has a growing research effort, which began in 2008 as a natural growth of the CyLab Mobility Research Center. The research primarily focused on software mobility, networking and security. CMUSV has now grown into a vibrant research community with groundbreaking initiatives in wireless sensors, machine learning, context area computing, security, energy technology, software and systems engineering and disaster management.\n\nMore recently, the research efforts have grown to include Disaster Management, Language Technologies, UAVs, Antannae Optimization, Health Technology systems. Cutting-edge research centers include the CyLab Mobility Research Center, the Carnegie Mellon Innovations Lab (CMIL), the Center for Open Source Investigation (COSI), the International Center for Advanced Communication Technologies (interACT) and the Intelligent Systems Lab (ISL).\n\nThe Disaster Management Initiative (DMI) was established in 2009 with the mission to provide next-generation technical solutions to disaster prediction, management and recovery.\n\nBesides the educational programs, Carnegie Mellon Silicon Valley has also organized software-related events in Silicon Valley, such as Carnegie Mellon's \"Tour de Silicon Valley\", where selected Carnegie Mellon students from the Pittsburgh campus are flown to Silicon Valley for a week of networking at various software companies.\n\nCurrently, the school offers TOCS - \"Talks on Computing Systems\", a weekly talk given by a subject expert in various topics related to software and computing. These talks are open to the public in addition to the faculty and students.\n\nThe school has also organized in association with the UC Berkeley, regular software conferences in the outlook of the software industry. Its first incarnation took place on April 30, 2007 at the Microsoft Silicon Valley Campus and focused on \"The New Software Industry - Forces at Play, Business in Motion\", while the second conference took place on April 22, 2008 at the Santa Clara Convention Center and focused on \"The Mobile Future - Technology Revolutionizing our Lives\".\n\nThe campus has hosted a Disaster Management Workshop, focusing on its growing research division in Disaster Response. The 3 day event included a CrisisCamp for practitioners to come and collaborate on improving disaster relief methodologies.\n\nIn August 2008, the graduating class of 2008 presented a gift to the university by installing their own Carnegie Mellon University fence on the Silicon Valley campus. The fence is a Carnegie Mellon tradition on the main campus where different student organizations repaint a long fence in the middle of the campus to promote a cause or spread a certain message. Members of the class of 2008 collected money to hire a contractor to build and install a 10-foot fence, that was then subsequently painted with images symbolizing the west coast (like the Golden Gate Bridge, or NASA's Hangar One). The fence was dedicated to Randy Pausch who died in 2008 (the top of the fence reads \"Dedicated to Randy Pausch\"). The remaining money was also donated and gift-matched to a total of $1000 to the Randy Pausch Memorial Fund.\n\nMany of CMUSV's alumni go on to work in nearby Silicon Valley companies including Google and Facebook. ECE PhD graduate Heng-Tze Cheng created the wide and deep learning system for recommendation system at Google. Faculty Joy Ying Zhang and research staff of Mobile Technologies (creator of Jibbigo) was acquired by Facebook.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853756", "title": "Suprapineal recess", "text": "Suprapineal recess\n\nThe suprapineal recess is an anatomical structure in the ventricular system of the brain.\n\nIt is located in the posterior part of the third ventricle, overlying the cerebral aqueduct.\n\nIn severe cases of hydrocephalus with increased pressure, this structure can dilate causing mass effect on the midbrain resulting in Parinaud's Syndrome with bilateral inward and downward deviation of the eyes.\n"}
{"id": "1853757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853757", "title": "Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar", "text": "Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar\n\nCarnegie Mellon University in Qatar (Arabic: جامعة كارنيجي ميلون في قطر), is one of the branch campuses of Carnegie Mellon University, located in Doha, Qatar. It is Carnegie Mellon's first undergraduate branch campus, is a member of the Qatar Foundation, and began graduating students in May 2008.\n\nCarnegie Mellon Qatar currently has approximately 400 students, 60 faculty and postdoctoral researchers, and 90 staff.\n\nCarnegie Mellon University's campus in Qatar was established in 2004. It was the fourth U.S. higher education institution to establish a campus in Qatar. The establishment of the campuses was spearheaded by Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, the mother of Qatar’s current Emir Tamim bin Hamad al Thani.\n\nCarnegie Mellon Qatar is part of Education City, a campus on the outskirts of Doha that currently houses eight other university campuses from the United States and Europe. Education City’s other institutions include Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, Weill Cornell Medical College, Virginia Commonwealth University, Texas A&M, Northwestern University, HEC Paris, and University College London.\n\nThe degrees issued by Carnegie Mellon are the same degrees and curriculum that students receive at the Pittsburgh campus. Undergraduate degrees are offered in Computer Science, Business Administration, Information Systems, Computational Biology, and Biological Sciences (a degree offered in conjunction with Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar).\n\nThe campus facilities and upkeep to them is entirely covered by the Qatar Foundation. Carnegie Mellon also received money each year to run the campus and pay faculty. It is estimated that Carnegie Mellon has received between $50 and $60 million per year from Qatar to run the campus. Tuition for the school was $49,610 in 2015.\n\nAs of December 2015, the campus had 62 faculty members. In a \"Washington Post\" article, the dean of the University’s Qatar campus, Ilker Baybars, called faculty recruiting “the most difficult part of [his] job”, noting that it is difficult to persuade tenured professors to leave America for Doha. In order to persuade professors to teach at the Doha campus, the university has provided incentives such as salary premiums, generous housing arrangements, and research funding .\nCarnegie Mellon Qatar is housed in a building designed by architects Legorreta + Legorreta. The university began occupancy in August 2008. All academics, student affairs, operations, and events are held in the building.\n\nSome have criticized the Qatari government for placing too much emphasis on and giving too much funding to international institutions of higher education which serve only the country's elite, without also demonstrating, and stimulating, the quality of national institutions.\n\nEducation City has been the subject of criticism for its hosting of extremist preachers at its mosque. This is in violation of the very prominent Jeddah Communique signed by the GCC member states and the US to commit to combat the threat of terrorism. Announcements of these types of speakers are regularly promoted by Education City’s Housing and Residence Life to Education City students. While American institutions of higher education place strong emphasis on freedom of speech and religion, these types of hate preachers openly speak out against these principles and create an intolerant atmosphere for students of Education City. For this reason, Carnegie Mellon, along with other Education City institutions, has been the subject of criticism over whether the large amount of funding they receive provides an incentive for them to remain silent about hate preachers at Education City and other issues such as Qatar’s sponsorship of terrorist groups such as al-Qaeda and ISIS and its abysmal human rights record.\n\nCarnegie Mellon, along with the other institutions of Education City, has also been the subject of questions over how a U.S. institution that values freedom of speech can function in a country where Islamic Sharia Law is strictly enforced and the monarchy has absolute power. Critics have repeatedly called into question the role that Sharia Law plays on university campuses in Qatar and how this affects the students at Carnegie Mellon and others. Qatar also adheres to Wahhabism, one of the most fundamental sects of Islam. With these limitations in place due to Qatari societal norms, the question is raised of whether or not Carnegie Mellon and the rest of Education City can truly provide the same caliber of academic experiences as their main U.S. campuses.\n\nCriticism has not only fallen on the universities, but also on Qatar as critics question whether their motive for hosting the universities is really to improve higher education opportunities in Qatar, or rather that it is more about exporting their beliefs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853759", "title": "OpenSky", "text": "OpenSky\n\nOpenSky is a registered trademark of Harris Corporation and is the trade name for a wireless communication system, invented by M/A-COM Inc., that is now a division of Harris RF Communications. OpenSky technology applies voice over IP transport to radio communications applications in a unique architecture.\n\nIn the mid 1990s Federal Express invited proposals for a data and voice network to the vehicular level. As the world's largest shipper, FedEx was a key opportunity, and major market players presented their existing product offerings over some time.\n\nM/A-COM presented their concept, and won the business. They delivered a standards-based infrastructure that attempted to leverage open systems to the largest degree possible, while adapting specific input/output to meet the customer's exact requirements.\n\nOpenSky received the direct attention of Tyco Electronics when they acquired it along with AMP Inc.. Tyco Electronics funded the company to acquire the EDACS radio system team and product line. The OpenSky system has since been sold into a number of important footprints, including the entire State of Pennsylvania, and the State of New York.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, the State of New York terminated its contract with M/A-COM due to ongoing and unresolved deficiencies with the OpenSky system. On February 13, 2009, Tyco Electronics filed a complaint against the New York State Office for Technology (NY-OFT), in the New York State Court of Claims, disputing the claims made by the OFT. In the complaint, Tyco Electronics disputed many of the NY-OFT's public criticisms of both the company and the system, maintaining that SWN (which included OpenSky) ‘worked as contracted.’ The complaint also claimed the state hindered the company's ability to build the system in a timely manner, defamed the company by stating that its technology did not work, and that the state inappropriately drew $50 million from the standby letter of credit the company established for the project.\n\nOn May 29, 2009, Harris Corporation purchased Tyco Electronics Wireless Systems, including its OpenSky and other wireless communication technologies, from Tyco Electronics for US$675 million.\n\nAs of the end of 2014, it was announced that, due to ongoing problems faced by the State Police and other users, the Pennsylvania Statewide Radio Network will be replaced by a Project 25 Phase II system. It will be VHF/800 multi-band and is expected to be fully operational by the end of 2021.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853760", "title": "Romain Duris", "text": "Romain Duris\n\nRomain Duris (; born 28 May 1974) is a French actor, best known for his role in Cédric Klapisch's Spanish Apartment trilogy, which consists of \"L'Auberge Espagnole\" (2002), \"Russian Dolls\" (2005) and \"Chinese Puzzle\" (2013). He also appeared in the 2017 film \"All the Money in the World\".\n\nDuris is best known for his role as the French exchange student Xavier Rousseau in \"L'Auberge Espagnole\" and \"The Russian Dolls.\" He has a reputation for versatility, having played a thug in \"The Beat That My Heart Skipped\". He has played a variety of roles ranging from gangsters as in Dobermann through romantic leads, \"Heartbreaker\" to action heroes in \"Arsène Lupin\".\n\nBorn in Paris, son of an engineer-architect father related to Armand-Gaston Camus, the French revolutionist and precursor of the Archives nationales, and a dancer mother, who herself descends from the Swedish painter Alexander Roslin, Duris studied arts at university but decided to follow a career in music forming a jazz-funk band. Music remains a major interest. He was noticed in the street by a casting director whilst waiting in a queue in 1993 and was offered a part in the 1994 Cédric Klapisch film \"Le péril jeune\". He has since worked with Klapisch regularly. His first role however was in a pop video for Princess Erika, \"Faut qu'j'travaille\" (I Need To Work), in which he plays the role of a small-time gangster. His sister is pianist Caroline Duris, who performs on the soundtrack of the 2005 film \"The Beat That My Heart Skipped\". Before going into acting, he started an acid-jazz band where he was a drummer. Duris lives in Paris near La Bastille with his actress girlfriend Olivia Bonamy with whom he has a son, Luigi, born 10 February 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853763", "title": "Post-nasal drip", "text": "Post-nasal drip\n\nPost-nasal drip (PND) occurs when excessive mucus is produced by the nasal mucosa. The excess mucus accumulates in the back of the nose, and eventually in the throat once it drips down the back of the throat. It can be caused by rhinitis, sinusitis, gastroesophageal reflux disease (GERD / GORD), or by a disorder of swallowing (such as an esophageal motility disorder). Other causes can be allergy, cold, flu, and side effects from medications.\n\nHowever, some researchers argue that the flow of mucus down the back of the throat from the nasal cavity is a normal physiologic process that occurs in all healthy individuals. Post-nasal drip has been challenged as a syndrome and instead is widely viewed as a symptom by various researchers as a result of the wide variation among differing societies. Furthermore, this rebuttal is reinforced because of the lack of an accepted definition, pathologic tissue changes, and available biochemical tests.\n\nPND may present itself through the constant presence of discomfort within the upper airways. This is caused by the flow of mucus from nasal membranes down the back of the throat, triggering a cough. The cough can become more pronounced in some cases as the result of heightened response to infections.\n\nGERD (GORD) is often associated with a high prevalence of upper-respiratory symptoms similar to those of PND, such as coughing, throat clearing, hoarseness and change in voice. Reflux causes throat irritation, leading to a sensation of increased mucus in the throat, which is believed to aggravate and, in some cases, cause post-nasal drip.\n\nPost-nasal drip can be a cause of laryngeal inflammation and hyperresponsiveness, leading to symptoms of vocal cord dysfunction.\n\nA prolonged period of examination based on information gathered from the patient regarding the chronology of the dripping sensation in the throat, evident within PND, can be unreliable and cause bias in diagnosing the syndrome itself in the absence of any accurate and objective diagnostic tests. As such, suggestive procedures that highlight rhinitis and mucopurulent secretions, such as nasoendoscopy, may instead be utilised because of the vague nature of information available to directly attribute specific symptoms to the syndrome.\n\nTreatment options depend on the nature of an individual’s post-nasal drip and its cause. Antibiotics may be prescribed if the PND is the result of a bacterial infection. Antihistamines are recommended if the PND is caused by allergies. However, first-generation antihistamines can have side effects, including drowsiness. Nasal steroid treatments, such as fluticasone propionate, may also provide relief. Decongestants such as pseudoephedrine cause a reduction in membranes through the tightening of blood vessels, which results in reduced PND.\n\nStaying hydrated and avoiding alcoholic and caffeinated products that can worsen symptoms is key. Avoiding cigarette smoke is also recommended because it can cause increased discomfort if inhaled. Drinking more fluids, especially those that can thin mucus (such as hot liquids), can be beneficial. Nasal irrigations such as saline-based nose sprays can be used to help with secretions in the throat that may cause discomfort. Physicians may also prescribe steroid-based nasal sprays, which are safe and more effective than over-the-counter decongestant sprays that may only remain helpful for a limited period of time.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853765", "title": "Stevie Ray", "text": "Stevie Ray\n\nLash Huffman (born August 22, 1958) is an American semi-retired professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Stevie Ray. Stevie Ray is best known for his seven-year tenure with World Championship Wrestling (WCW) from 1993 to 2000, where he was one-half of the tag team Harlem Heat, with his younger brother Booker T. Huffman, better known as Booker T. They won the WCW World Tag Team Championship a record ten times.\n\nHuffman is also a one-time WCW World Television Champion. Among other events, he headlined the Fall Brawl 1993 and 1998 pay-per-views.\n\nHuffman, as part of Harlem Heat, was inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame class of 2019.\n\nLash Huffman started wrestling in 1989 as Super Collider on the independent circuit in Texas. In Ivan Putski's Western Wrestling Alliance, he first started feuding with his brother, Booker (who was G.I. Bro at the time) under the ring name Jive Soul Bro. He began teaming with his brother as Stevie Ray (named after a combination of musical artists Stevie Wonder and Ray Charles) in a tag team called The Ebony Experience for the Global Wrestling Federation, which was on ESPN. They were faces and feuded with the \"Blackbirds\" of Iceman King Parsons and Brickhouse Brown. They won the GWF Tag Team Championship three times. Stevie Ray then went on to win the GWF North American Heavyweight Championship in 1993.\n\nIn August 1993, they went to World Championship Wrestling (WCW) and changed their team name to Harlem Heat. Initially Lash was known as Kane while Booker became Kole. They were then billed from Harlem. They became heels and were on Harley Race and Col. Rob Parker's team in the War Games at Fall Brawl on September 19, 1993, with Vader and Sid Vicious against Sting, Davey Boy Smith, Dustin Rhodes and The Shockmaster. They lost the match when Shockmaster forced Booker (Kole) to submit.\n\nIn 1994, they got Sister Sherri as their manager and changed their names back to Booker T and Stevie Ray. They feuded with Stars and Stripes (The Patriot and Buff Bagwell) and won the WCW Tag Team Titles for the first time.\n\nFrom there, they feuded with The Nasty Boys (Jerry Sags and Brian Knobs) and got into a feud with Col. Parker's \"Stud Stable\" of Dick Slater and Bunkhouse Buck where Parker and Sherri were carrying on a love affair. During this time, Stevie and Booker lost the titles to the Nasty Boys, regained them, then lost them to Slater and Buck and regained them again. They eventually gained Parker as a manager as he abandoned Slater and Buck to be with Sherri. Harlem Heat won the WCW World Tag Team Championship three times in 1995, trading the titles with The American Males (Bagwell and Scotty Riggs) in the early fall.\n\nThey had brief feuds with Lex Luger and Sting, trading the titles back and forth in early 1996 and The Road Warriors before starting a long feud with Rick and Scott Steiner in 1996. In October, they lost their titles to The Outsiders, Kevin Nash and Scott Hall, when Nash used Parker's cane to attack Stevie. They would then fire the Colonel, beat him up, turn face, and enter into a brief feud against Parker's newest team The Amazing French Canadians, a feud they would win.\n\nIn 1997 they feuded with Public Enemy (Johnny Grunge and Rocco Rock), The Steiners and the New World Order. In the summer of 1997, they fired Sherri and added a new manager, Jacqueline. They were briefly put out of action by the nWo and returned to feud with The Faces of Fear (Meng and The Barbarian).\n\nAs 1998 started to roll around, Stevie had to take some time off from WCW from January to June. Meanwhile, Booker T would go on to win WCW World Television Championship. Through the association with his brother, he would gain his only singles title in WCW, as when Booker took time off with an injury as Television Champion from July to October, Stevie got a \"power of attorney\" to defend the belt for Booker. He then engaged in a short feud with Chavo Guerrero, Jr. over the right to defend the belt before dropping it to Chris Jericho afterwards.\n\nBy June 1998, Stevie Ray had returned to the ring, and the powerful gang-like faction of the nWo had been split into two: Hollywood Hogan's nWo Hollywood and Kevin Nash's nWo Wolfpac. Stevie Ray would be offered a spot in nWo Hollywood, but was hesitant at first. He would join the \"black & white\" in August, effectively turning him heel.\n\nAlthough this would make Stevie Ray known for using dirty tactics and a strength-in-numbers mentality, his brother, Booker, showed little resentment and respected Stevie Ray's decision to be a part of the nWo, and they were able to peacefully co-exist. Meanwhile, Booker was steadily gaining popularity as a face, climbing the ranks of the WCW roster and winning championship titles.\n\nDuring his tenure with the nWo, Stevie Ray would tag team with the likes of Horace Hogan and Scott Norton as well as performing in singles competition, often with Vincent at ringside. Alongside Hollywood Hogan and Bret Hart, he also participated in the War Games of Fall Brawl 1998. The slapjack became known as Stevie Ray's trademark weapon which he would frequently use to knock an opponent unconscious, typically when the referee was distracted.\n\nBy early 1999, both nWo factions had fused back together, but members of nWo Hollywood started bickering over who the leader of the sub-faction was. Hollywood Hogan began telling various members in private that he had granted them official leadership, causing confusion and friction between members. Not long after, Stevie Ray won the leadership role in a 4-man battle royal on the April 5, 1999 episode of \"WCW Monday Nitro\", defeating Horace Hogan, Brian Adams, and Vincent.\n\nAs tension grew between members of nWo Hollywood, Stevie Ray started helping Booker T during his matches. As Booker was getting ganged up on in July, the two reunited Harlem Heat. They began feuding with Barry and Kendall Windham as well as The Jersey Triad of Diamond Dallas Page, Chris Kanyon and Bam Bam Bigelow. They went on to win the Tag Titles three more times, making them 10 time champions.\n\nBy late 1999, a female bodybuilder named Midnight had joined Harlem Heat. Stevie resented her help and started disputing with Booker over her. He eventually challenged Midnight in a match that would decide whether or not she would stay with Harlem Heat. After being defeated with a surprise small package, Stevie Ray would turn on both Booker and Midnight to form Harlem Heat, Inc. with Big T, Kash and J. Biggs. They won the rights to the Harlem Heat name in a match with Big T against Booker on February 20, 2000 at SuperBrawl X.\n\nIn May, Stevie split from Big T, Kash and Biggs (who all left WCW) and helped Booker T out of a jam. He then retired from in-ring competition to become a color commentator for \"WCW Thunder\".\n\nAs a commentator, Stevie referred to all of the women as \"yaks\" and coined his catchphrase \"Suckas gots to know!\" He also provided in-depth analysis from a wrestler's point of view during matches and constantly criticized wrestlers for mistakes made in the ring. For example, he would often say that a wrestler \"should have went [sic] for the cover!\" or \"needed to hook the leg!\" and this advice earned him the nickname, \"Straightshootin'\" Stevie Ray.\n\nStevie came back for one more WCW match (a title vs. career match) for the WCW World Heavyweight Championship against Scott Steiner on the November 27, 2000 edition of WCW Monday Nitro, which he lost.\n\nStevie Ray wrestled a few matches for WWA against Ernest Miller in 2002, retiring later that year.\n\nIn 2005, Stevie Ray and Booker T opened the \"Booker T and Stevie Ray Pro Wrestling Academy\" in Houston, Texas.\n\nIn April 2013, Stevie Ray inducted Booker T into the WWE Hall of Fame.\n\nOn February 21, 2015, Booker T and Stevie Ray reunited as Harlem Heat for one last match at Booker T's promotion, Reality of Wrestling's \"The Final Heat\" event, where they defeated the Heavenly Bodies for the ROW Tag Team Championship. On March 14, the titles were vacated.\n\nOn March 30, 2016, Stevie Ray debuted a new weekly radio talk show, \"Straight Shooting with Stevie Ray\" which airs on KCOH radio 92.9 FM HD2 every Wednesday. He is also the host of the podcast \"Stand Up for Greatness\".\n\nIn 2015 Ray was added to \"WWE 2K16\" as DLC.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853769", "title": "Tapio Wirkkala", "text": "Tapio Wirkkala\n\nTapio Veli Ilmari Wirkkala (2 June 1915 – 19 May 1985) was a Finnish designer and sculptor, a major figure of post-war design.\n\nWirkkala was born in Hanko in 1915. He attended the Töölö co-educational school in Helsinki. His father, Ilmari Wirkkala, was a cemetery architect, and mother Selma (née Vanhatalo) a wood-carver. His sister Helena Korvenkontio and brother Tauno Wirkkala were also artists.\n\nWirkkala's work ranges from designs of plastic ketchup bottles and metalware to glass, ceramics and plywood in a range of styles. His success as a glass designer began in 1946 when he designed the Kantarelli vase for Iittala, and the mass-produced Tapio collection was launched in 1954. His range was immense, including glassware, stoneware, jewelry, and furniture for mass production, as well as individual sculptures in several media. He also designed the Finnish markka banknotes introduced in 1955. In the early 1950s, Wirkkala worked as the artistic director at the Helsinki Central School of Industrial Design.\n\nAmong his most famous work have been the designs for the Finlandia vodka bottle (1970-1999) and for Iittala's Ultima Thule set of kitchen glasses. Both glassware items feature a dripping icicle look, and in the case of the Iittala's glassware it is said to have taken thousands of hours to develop a glassblowing technique that would produce the effect.\n\nWirkkala did much of his initial design work using a traditional Finnish carving knife, the puukko. Wirkkala designed his own version of the knife, the Tapio Wirkkala Puukko, which was manufactured by Hackman Cutlery and marketed by Brookstone in the US in the early-1970s.\n\nWirkkala died in Helsinki on 19 May 1985 and was buried in the artists' area of the Hietaniemi Cemetery, next to his wife Rut Bryk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853773", "title": "Matthew 1:2", "text": "Matthew 1:2\n\nMatthew 1:2 is the second verse of the first chapter in the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament. The verse is the first part of the section where the genealogy of Joseph, the legal father of Jesus, is listed.\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible the text reads:\n\nThe World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see BibleHub Matthew 1:2\n\nThe passage also references Judah's brothers who have no actual place in the genealogy. Robert H. Gundry contends they are included because the author of Matthew is trying to portray the people of God as a brotherhood. Harold Fowler argues that while Isaac and Jacob's brothers were excluded from the promise of the messiah, all twelve of Judah's brothers were the ancestors of the tribe from which the messiah would come. The inclusion of the brothers is thus a reminder to the readers that it is from this group where the messiah will come.\n\nW. D. Davies and Dale Allison note that Isaac's birth is a miraculous one according to the Old Testament, and thus there is some symmetry with both the first and last births mentioned in the genealogy being miraculous ones.\n"}
{"id": "1853774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853774", "title": "Konstanty Zamoyski", "text": "Konstanty Zamoyski\n\nKonstanty Zamoyski (1799–1866) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nKonstanty became the 13th Ordynat of Zamość estate and was Chamberlain on the royal court in Russia. He married Princess Aniela Sapieha on 19 April 1827. He passed the law of antiquity in Poland. The law was repealed soon after his death.\n"}
{"id": "1853778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853778", "title": "Lindsay Eddie", "text": "Lindsay Eddie\n\nLindsay Atkins Eddie FRAS (1845 – 13 October 1913) was a South-African amateur astronomer, known for his observations of Venus, Mercury and Mars and 21 comets. He was elected a fellow of the Royal Society of Astronomers in 1880 . He saw active military service in South Africa and his final rank was that of a Major.\n\nEddie was the son of an army Surgeon, William Cruikshank Eddie and Sarah Eddie (née Kaye). He had one brother and one sister. He grew up in Grahamstown and joined the civil service of the Cape of Good Hope in 1878. By 1892 he was clerk to judge Jones of the Eastern District Court, where he and W.G. Atherstone were asked to analyse a judgement of a libel case that a jury had been unable to decide. The case revolved around W.B. Shaw who had accused dean Williams of St Michael and St George Cathedral, Grahamstown of being a liar.\n\nHe served in the military for 20 years. In 1876 he commanded the Grahamstown Rifles during an invasion of Xhosas just prior to the 9th Xhosa War. In 1885 he was a lieutenant in command of the Bechuanaland Expedition led by Charles Warren. His final rank was that of a Major when he retired in 1901.\n\nOn 2 September 1873, he married Hermina Fredrica Upton at St Bartholomews Anglican church in Grahamstown and they had five children.\n\nHe died on 13 October 1913 in Grahamstown.\n\nDuring his early education he spent some time under the guidance of Dr. Richards (later Bishop Richards) who inspired him in his astronomical pursuits. His initial equipment was a 9.5-inch reflecting telescope in Grahamstown but he later used a 76 mm refractor and a more powerful 240 mm reflector. \n\nHe made many useful observations including observations of 21 comets, although he never discovered any himself. The transit of Venus on 6 December 1882, which he observed from Fort Selwyn, near Grahamstown was one of the highlights of his observational career. He was assisted in this observation by the mayor of Grahamstown, J.S. Willcox, a jeweler who provided a chronometer with which to time the observations. Two astronomers at the Royal Observatory in Cape Town, D. Gill and W.H. Finlay sent a series of telegraphed time signals to Eddie which allowed him to correct the chronometer.\n\nOver the 20 years of his career, some of his results were published in seven papers in the \"Monthly Notices\" of the Royal Astronomical Society, including an extensive series of observations of \"Comet 1882b\".\n\nHe published several other papers in other journals, such as his observation on the lunar eclipse of 11 March 1895 in Popular Astronomy and a curious meteor trail seen at Grahamstown on 22 October 1895, also published in Popular Astronomy. His contributions to the Journal of the British Astronomical Association included notes on a brilliant meteor and the colours and spectra of 100 southern stars in 1894 and the conjunction of the moon with Venus in 1903. He observed a transit of Mercury in 1894 and in 1907 he studied the planet Mars with great detail and published drawings that were highly acclaimed by E. M. Antoniadi of the Mars section of the British Astronomical Association.\n\nHe was elected a fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society on 14 May 1880. From 1881 to 1898 he regularly published his observations of comets in the local newspaper, the Grahamstown Journal, including observations of Fabry's comet (1886), Swift's Comet (1892) and Gale's Comet (1894).\n\nThe Eddie crater on Mars is an 89 kilometer wide crater named in his honour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853779", "title": "Luis A. Ferré Performing Arts Center", "text": "Luis A. Ferré Performing Arts Center\n\nThe Luis A. Ferré Performing Arts Center (Centro de Bellas Artes Luis A. Ferré in Spanish) is a multi-use performance centre located in the barrio of Santurce in San Juan, Puerto Rico. It features three main concert and theater halls for plays, ballet, operas and concerts. It was renamed in 1994 after the late Puerto Rican philanthropist, politician and Governor of Puerto Rico, Luis A. Ferré.\n\nThe Center opened on April 9, 1981 under the administration of Governor Carlos Romero Barceló after ten years of planning, project financing, and construction. Since then, it has become the most important performing arts venue in the Puerto Rican capital, presenting the highest level of commercial theater in Puerto Rico along with ballets and operas, and also hosting artists such as Plácido Domingo and Menudo. The Center is home to the Puerto Rico Symphony Orchestra and the annual Casals Festival.\n\nIn January 2019, Lin-Manuel Miranda’s musical \"Hamilton\" began its third touring production at the venue, with Miranda reprising the titular role of Founding Father and Secretary of Treasury, Alexander Hamilton, with higher praise than his original run on Broadway. Miranda returned to the venue after nine years since he reprised the role of Usnavi exclusively in San Juan during the North American touring production of \"In the Heights\", which he also wrote.\n\nThe Center features four main concert and theater halls, two eateries and a central outdoor plaza, each with its own unique features:\n\n\nThe Center is surrounded by various art expositions, including murals, paintings, and sculptures. The two largest halls feature art expositions which distinguishes each one:\n\n\nNear the entrance of the Center, various expositions greet guests and visitors, including a aluminum sculpture by Luis Torruella titled \"Melodic Reflection\". However, the main art theme of the Center’s entrance are \"The Muses\". These are two separate works of art, one being an assortment of bronze female sculptures along the Juan Morel Campos Plaza, by Annex Burgos; and the second being a large mural at the Center’s façade (pictured above), made from a mixture concrete and crystal stones and designed by Augusto Marín. Each muse represents the different arts and cultures which the Center embraces, including local and classical music, theater, literature, dance, films, architecture, sculptures, and painting.\n\nLocated along the Ponce de Leon Avenue in the Santurce section of San Juan, the center is located near various retail shops and residential buildings, which produce a vibrant atmosphere around the center both day and night. It has an underground parking garage offering 483 spaces for guests, although adjacent office buildings provide additional spaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853790", "title": "Suicide bridge", "text": "Suicide bridge\n\nA suicide bridge is a bridge used frequently to die by suicide, most typically by jumping off and into the water or ground below. A fall from the height of a tall bridge into water may be fatal, although people have survived jumps from high bridges such as the Golden Gate Bridge. Medical examiners at the Golden Gate Bridge state that jumpers suffer a gruesome death as their bodies hit the water at about , with severe organ damage (multiple ruptured organs and necks, pelvises, etc.). However, significant injury or death is far from certain; numerous studies report minimally injured persons who succumbed to drowning.\n\nTo reach such locations, those with the intention to die by suicide must often walk long distances to reach the point where they finally decide to jump. For example, some individuals have traveled over the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge by car in order to jump from the Golden Gate Bridge.\n\nSuicide prevention advocates believe that suicide by bridge is more likely to be impulsive than other means, and that barriers can have a significant effect on reducing the incidence of suicides by bridge. One study showed that installing barriers on the Duke Ellington Bridge in Washington, D.C.—which has a high incidence of suicide—did not cause an increase of suicides at the nearby Taft Bridge. A similar result was seen when barriers were erected on the popular suicide bridge: the Clifton Suspension Bridge, in the United Kingdom. Families affected and groups that help the mentally ill have lobbied governments to erect similar barriers. One such barrier is the Luminous Veil on the Prince Edward Viaduct in Toronto, Canada, once considered North America's second deadliest bridge, with over 400 jumps on record.\n\nSpecial telephones with connections to crisis hotlines are sometimes installed on bridges.\n\nThe Sydney Harbour Bridge, the Mooney Mooney Bridge on the Central Coast (New South Wales), and the Westgate Bridge in Melbourne, Australia and the Story Bridge in Brisbane are considered suicide bridges. \n\nSydney Harbour Bridge has a suicide prevention barrier. In February 2009, following the murder of a four-year-old girl who was thrown off the bridge by her father, the first stage of a temporary suicide barrier was erected on Westgate Bridge, constructed of concrete crash barriers topped with a welded mesh fence. The permanent barrier has now been completed throughout the span of the bridge. The barriers are costed at $20 million and have been reported to have reduced suicide rates on the Westgate by 85%.\n\nSuicide prevention barriers were installed on the Story Bridge in 2013; a three-metre-high barrier run the full length of both sides of the bridge.\n\n\nAbout 300 people have jumped to their death from the Nusle Bridge, in Prague, Czech Republic. Barriers almost 3 metres high were erected here in 1997 with aim to prevent further jumps. In 2007, the fencing was topped off with a of polished metal to make it impossible to climb.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853791", "title": "Hydraulic conductivity", "text": "Hydraulic conductivity\n\nHydraulic conductivity, symbolically represented as formula_1, is a property of vascular plants, soils and rocks, that describes the ease with which a fluid (usually water) can move through pore spaces or fractures. It depends on the intrinsic permeability of the material, the degree of saturation, and on the density and viscosity of the fluid. Saturated hydraulic conductivity, \"K\", describes water movement through saturated media.\nBy definition, hydraulic conductivity is the ratio of velocity to hydraulic gradient indicating permeability of porous media.\n\nThere are two broad categories of determining hydraulic conductivity:\n\nThe experimental approach is broadly classified into:\nThe small scale field tests are further subdivided into:\n\nThe methods of determination of hydraulic conductivity and other related issues are investigated by several researchers.\n\nAllen Hazen derived an empirical formula for approximating hydraulic conductivity from grain size analyses:\nwhere\n\nA pedotransfer function (PTF) is a specialized empirical estimation method, used primarily in the soil sciences, however has increasing use in hydrogeology. There are many different PTF methods, however, they all attempt to determine soil properties, such as hydraulic conductivity, given several measured soil properties, such as soil particle size, and bulk density.\n\nThere are relatively simple and inexpensive laboratory tests that may be run to determine the hydraulic conductivity of a soil: constant-head method and falling-head method.\n\nThe constant-head method is typically used on granular soil. \nThis procedure allows water to move through the soil under a steady state head condition while the volume of water flowing through the soil specimen is measured over a period of time. \nBy knowing the volume formula_5 of water measured in a time formula_6, over a specimen of length formula_7 and cross-sectional area formula_8, as well as the head formula_9, the hydraulic conductivity, formula_1, can be derived by simply rearranging Darcy's law:\n\n\"Proof: \"\nDarcy's law states that the volumetric flow depends on the pressure differential, formula_12, between the two sides of the sample, the permeability, formula_13, and the viscosity, formula_14, as: \nIn a constant head experiment, the head (difference between two heights) defines an excess water mass, formula_16, where formula_17 is the density of water. \nThis mass weighs down on the side it is on, creating a pressure differential of formula_18, where formula_19 is the gravitational acceleration.\nPlugging this directly into the above gives us\nIf we define the hydraulic conductivity to be related to the hydraulic permeability as\nthen we have our result. \"QED\"\n\nIn the falling-head method, the soil sample is first saturated under a specific head condition. \nThe water is then allowed to flow through the soil without adding any water, so the pressure head declines as water passes through the specimen. \nThe advantage to the falling-head method is that it can be used for both fine-grained and coarse-grained soils.\nIf the head drops from formula_22 to formula_23 in a time formula_6, then the hydraulic conductivity is equal to \n\"Proof: \" As above, Darcy's law reads\nThe decrease in volume is related to the falling head by formula_27.\nPlugging this relationship into the above, and taking the limit as formula_28, we find the differential equation\nwhich has the solution\nPlugging in formula_31 and rearranging, we have our result.\"QED\"\n\nIn compare to laboratory method, field methods gives the most reliable information about the permeability of soil with minimum disturbances. In laboratory methods, the degree of disturbances affect the reliability of value of permeability of the soil.\n\nPumping test is the most reliable method to calculate the coefficient of permeability of a soil. This test is further classified into Pumping in test and pumping out test.\n\nThere are also in-situ methods for measuring the hydraulic conductivity in the field.\nWhen the water table is shallow, the augerhole method, a slug test, can be used for determining the hydraulic conductivity below the water table.\nThe method was developed by Hooghoudt (1934) in The Netherlands and introduced in the US by Van Bavel en Kirkham (1948).\nThe method uses the following steps:\n\nwhere: formula_34 horizontal saturated hydraulic conductivity (m/day), formula_35 depth of the waterlevel in the hole relative to the water table in the soil (cm), formula_36 at time formula_37, formula_38 at time formula_39, formula_40 time (in seconds) since the first measurement of formula_41 as formula_42, and formula_43 is a factor depending on the geometry of the hole:\n\nwhere: formula_45 radius of the cylindrical hole (cm), formula_46 is the average depth of the water level in the hole relative to the water table in the soil (cm), found as formula_47, and formula_48 is the depth of the bottom of the hole relative to the water table in the soil (cm).\n\nThe picture shows a large variation of formula_32-values measured with the augerhole method in an area of 100 ha. The ratio between the highest and lowest values is 25. The cumulative frequency distribution is lognormal and was made with the CumFreq program.\n\nThe transmissivity is a measure of how much water can be transmitted horizontally, such as to a pumping well.\nAn aquifer may consist of formula_50 soil layers. The transmissivity for horizontal flow formula_51 of the formula_52 soil layer with a \"saturated\" thickness formula_53 and horizontal hydraulic conductivity formula_54 is:\nTransmissivity is directly proportional to horizontal hydraulic conductivity formula_54 and thickness formula_53. Expressing formula_54 in m/day and formula_53 in m, the transmissivity formula_51 is found in units m/day.\nThe total transmissivity formula_61 of the aquifer is:\n\nThe \"apparent\" horizontal hydraulic conductivity formula_65 of the aquifer is:\nwhere formula_67, the total thickness of the aquifer, is formula_68, with formula_64.\n\nThe transmissivity of an aquifer can be determined from pumping tests.\n\n\"Influence of the water table\"\nWhen a soil layer is above the water table, it is not saturated and does not contribute to the transmissivity. When the soil layer is entirely below the water table, its saturated thickness corresponds to the thickness of the soil layer itself. When the water table is inside a soil layer, the saturated thickness corresponds to the distance of the water table to the bottom of the layer. As the water table may behave dynamically, this thickness may change from place to place or from time to time, so that the transmissivity may vary accordingly.\nIn a semi-confined aquifer, the water table is found within a soil layer with a negligibly small transmissivity, so that changes of the total transmissivity (formula_70) resulting from changes in the level of the water table are negligibly small.\nWhen pumping water from an unconfined aquifer, where the water table is inside a soil layer with a significant transmissivity, the water table may be drawn down whereby the transmissivity reduces and the flow of water to the well diminishes.\n\nThe \"resistance\" to vertical flow (formula_71) of the formula_52 soil layer with a \"saturated\" thickness formula_53 and vertical hydraulic conductivity formula_74 is:\nExpressing formula_74 in m/day and formula_53 in m, the resistance (formula_71) is expressed in days.\nThe total resistance (formula_79) of the aquifer is:\nwhere formula_81 signifies the summation over all layers: formula_82\nThe \"apparent\" vertical hydraulic conductivity (formula_83) of the aquifer is:\nwhere formula_70 is the total thickness of the aquifer: formula_86, with formula_87\n\nThe resistance plays a role in aquifers where a sequence of layers occurs with varying horizontal permeability so that horizontal flow is found mainly in the layers with high horizontal permeability while the layers with low horizontal permeability transmit the water mainly in a vertical sense.\n\nWhen the horizontal and vertical hydraulic conductivity (formula_88 and formula_74) of the formula_52 soil layer differ considerably, the layer is said to be anisotropic with respect to hydraulic conductivity.\nWhen the \"apparent\" horizontal and vertical hydraulic conductivity (formula_91 and formula_83) differ considerably, the aquifer is said to be anisotropic with respect to hydraulic conductivity.\nAn aquifer is called \"semi-confined\" when a saturated layer with a relatively small horizontal hydraulic conductivity (the semi-confining layer or aquitard) overlies a layer with a relatively high horizontal hydraulic conductivity so that the flow of groundwater in the first layer is mainly vertical and in the second layer mainly horizontal.\nThe resistance of a semi-confining top layer of an aquifer can be determined from pumping tests.\nWhen calculating flow to drains or to a well field in an aquifer with the aim to control the water table, the anisotropy is to be taken into account, otherwise the result may be erroneous.\n\nBecause of their high porosity and permeability, sand and gravel aquifers have higher hydraulic conductivity than clay or unfractured granite aquifers. Sand or gravel aquifers would thus be easier to extract water from (e.g., using a pumping well) because of their high transmissivity, compared to clay or unfractured bedrock aquifers.\n\nHydraulic conductivity has units with dimensions of length per time (e.g., m/s, ft/day and (gal/day)/ft² ); transmissivity then has units with dimensions of length squared per time. The following table gives some typical ranges (illustrating the many orders of magnitude which are likely) for \"K\" values.\n\nHydraulic conductivity (\"K\") is one of the most complex and important of the properties of aquifers in hydrogeology as the values found in nature:\n\nTable of saturated hydraulic conductivity (\"K\") values found in nature\n\nValues are for typical fresh groundwater conditions — using standard values of viscosity and specific gravity for water at 20 °C and 1 atm.\nSee the similar table derived from the same source for intrinsic permeability values.\n\nSource: modified from Bear, 1972\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853793", "title": "Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Ealing, Acton and Shepherd's Bush (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEaling, Acton and Shepherd's Bush was a parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It elected one Member of Parliament (MP) by the first past the post system of election. The constituency was abolished at the 2010 general election when it was divided between the new seats of Ealing Central and Acton and Hammersmith, with then incumbent Andy Slaughter becoming MP for the latter seat.\n\nThe constituency incorporated the eastern-most section of the London Borough of Ealing (covering Ealing and Acton) as well as the northern part of the London Borough of Hammersmith and Fulham (covering Shepherd's Bush and White City).\n\nThe constituency was made up of the following electoral wards:\n\n\nBoundary changes which took effect at the 2010 general election erased the constituency. The section which fell within the London Borough of Ealing was combined with parts of central Ealing to create a new Ealing Central and Acton constituency, whilst the area falling within the London Borough of Hammersmith & Fulham (namely Shepherd's Bush) was combined with the northern part of the old Hammersmith and Fulham constituency to create a new Hammersmith seat.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853795", "title": "The Creeping Terror", "text": "The Creeping Terror\n\nThe Creeping Terror (a.k.a. The Crawling Monster) is a 1964 horror-science fiction film directed and produced by, and starring, Vic Savage. The plot is centered upon an extraterrestrial, slug-like creature that attacks and devours people in a small American town. Widely considered to be one of the worst films of all time, \"The Creeping Terror\" has become a cult film.\n\nWhile driving along a highway in fictional Angel County in California, a sheriff's deputy, Martin Gordon (Vic Savage) and his wife Brett (Shannon O'Neil) meet Martin's uncle, sheriff Ben (Byrd Holland), and together they investigate a reported plane crash site. At the site, the group encounters the abandoned truck of a forest ranger, the ranger's hat, and an alien spacecraft that resembles a camping trailer; a large, slow-moving, slug-like creature had earlier emerged from the craft, and departed prior to the group's arrival. Believing the absent ranger might be inside, Ben enters the craft by crawling underneath it. Shortly thereafter loud screams, along with growls like those of a lion, are heard from the craft, after which Martin radios for help.\n\nIn response to Martin's request for assistance, a \"special unit\" of military troops, commanded by Col. James Caldwell (John Caresio) and traveling in the back of a light-duty, civilian truck arrives at the site. Two of the troops enter the craft, examine its contents, and report back to Caldwell the presence inside of a large, tethered creature. The next day, \"the world's leading authority on space emissions,\" Dr. Bradford (William Thourlby), arrives to direct the ongoing investigation, which includes examination of the creature and the spacecraft's analog devices. As the investigation proceeds, the departed creature stalks the countryside and, despite its markedly awkward and slow pace of ambulation, successfully approaches, attacks and devours a bikini-clad girl, a housewife hanging laundry, Grandpa Brown (Jack King) and his grandson Bobby (Pierre Kopp), picnickers at a \"hootenanny\" (one of whom attempts to stop the creature by swatting it with a guitar), the patrons at a community dance hall (at which time some attendees engage each other in fisticuffs), and couples in their cars at a lovers' lane (about which the film's narrator states that \"anyone who experienced that catastrophe, and survived, would never go there again.\")\n\nFollowing the lover's lane incident, Caldwell orders his troops to attack the creature, telling Bradford that the creature would be captured alive if possible. This attack is accomplished by the troops standing close together, walking slowly toward the creature as a unit, and firing their small caliber firearms. The attack proves ineffective, however, and failing to retreat or otherwise walk away, all but two of the troops are devoured. Caldwell then decides to throw a live grenade, with the resultant explosion destroying the creature. After briefly examining the dead creature's tissue, Bradford hurriedly returns to the spacecraft and therein somehow triggers an explosion. Although this explosion mortally injures Bradford, it does not damage the craft or its instrumentation, and it allows the tethered creature to exit. As the creature prepares to devour Bradford, it is killed in a collision with Martin's arriving police car. Bradford then explains to Martin and Brett that the creatures were \"mobile\" laboratories designed to consume human beings, analyze the bodies chemically to detect weaknesses, and from the spacecraft transmit the acquired information into outer space. Although Martin fails to destroy the spacecraft's transmitter equipment, the dying Bradford says that the creatures' home planet might not even exist anymore, concluding that \"only God knows for sure.\"\n\n\"The Creeping Terror\" was directed, produced and edited by \"Vic Savage\" (an alias) under the name A. J. Nelson. Although Robert Silliphant is the credited writer, the original story was written by his younger brother Allan Silliphant (later known as Al Silliman Jr., and who would go on to write, produce, and direct the 1969 softcore comedy film \"The Stewardesses\"). Silliphant's other brother, Stirling, was at the time a successful writer, having written extensively for television shows that included \"Alfred Hitchcock Presents\" and \"Perry Mason\", and he co-created \"Naked City\" and \"Route 66\". Savage used this familial association to attract potential investors for the film: in exchange for receiving any of the film's profits, for a few hundred dollars Savage reportedly offered these investors a small part in the film.\n\nWhen interviewed by director Pete Schuermann for \"The Creep Behind the Camera\" (aka \"Creep!\") (2014), a docudrama film about the making of \"The Creeping Terror\", Allan Silliphant claimed he was paid $1,500 by Savage. Following this payment, the then 21-year-old Silliphant returned three days later with the original nine-page film treatment that he had \"made up\" based only on an earlier, vague idea for the story. Later in the production there was conflict between writer and director, with Silliphant frustrated that Savage did not share his vision that the story was intended to be outrageous. This conflict, and Silliphant's belief that the film would harm, rather than enhance, his family's reputation, especially that of his brother Stirling, ultimately led to his departure from the production.\n\nPrincipal photography began in late 1962, but instead of shooting at scenic Lake Tahoe as Silliphant had expected, a muddy pond at Spahn Ranch in Simi Valley, California was used. When the film's special effects creator was not paid for his work, he allegedly stole the original creature costume a day prior to shooting, forcing Savage and his remaining crew to assemble a poorly constructed replica. In John Stanley's \"Revenge of the Creature Features Movie Guide\" (1988), the resultant creature is described as \"...an elongated alien monster resembling a clumsy shag rug...\" Because of Savage's difficulties in securing financing, filming was episodic and did not conclude until 1963.\n\nThere is minimal dialogue in the film, with nearly all vocalization provided in expository format by a narrator. This is because Savage either shot scenes without regard to the professional quality of the sound, the sound was improperly transferred (or not transferred at all, as a cost-saving measure) to 35mm mag stock, or the original soundtracks were lost. Having insufficient funds to pay for basic sound transfers or extensive post-production dubbing, Savage ultimately hired a radio news reader (Larry Burrell) to narrate the entire film, although a minor amount of poor-quality re-dubbing was performed. The narrator speaks over most of the dialogue in the film, and long intervals devoid of dialogue have no narration, similar in style to many educational films produced in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nSavage might have checked into a motel with a silent picture-only Moviola to quickly assemble the finished film. Prior to the film's alleged release, however, Savage was repeatedly sued, and facing a possible indictment on charges of fraud, he vanished. Savage/Nelson/White was apparently never heard from again in the context of film production, and he reportedly died of liver failure in 1975, aged 41. In 2009, his wife Lois wrote a \"tell-all\" novel that featured her life with Savage, albeit using aliases.\n\nWith Savage having disappeared, the main financier, William Thourlby (who appeared in the film as Dr. Bradford), acquired the remaining film stock and had an edited version created in an attempt to recoup some of his investment. Because \"The Creeping Terror\" would not be suitable for wide release and would, at best, have been relegated to drive-in theaters and second run showings, it was sold in 1976 as part of a syndication package of films for local television stations. In 1994, \"The Creeping Terror\" was featured in episode #606 of \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\"; the cast, crew and viewers of the program became noted critics of the film. \"TV Guide\" described \"The Creeping Terror\" as \"pure camp,\" and claimed it might be the second-worst horror film ever made, behind only \"Plan 9 from Outer Space\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853796", "title": "Kaj Franck", "text": "Kaj Franck\n\nKaj Gabriel Franck (9 November 1911 Vyborg, Grand Duchy of Finland– 26 September 1989 Santorini, Greece) was one of the leading figures of Finnish design and an influential figure in design and applied arts between 1940–1980. \n\nFranck was artistic director of the Arabia ceramics company (now part of Iittala Group) and artistic director and teacher at the College of Applied Arts – the predecessor of the University of Art and Design Helsinki (now Aalto University) – since 1945, but created designs for other companies as well. He was awarded the Prince Eugen Medal in 1964.\n\nThe Design Forum Finland awards the yearly Kaj Franck Design Prize to a designer or team of designers working in the spirit of the late Kaj Franck. Recipients of the prize include Oiva Toikka (1992), Yrjö Kukkapuro (1995), Heikki Orvola (1998), Eero Aarnio (2008), Simo Heikkilä (2011) and Harri Koskinen (2014).\n\nThe Mint of Finland released a collector coin with the theme “Kaj Franck and Industrial Art” in January 2011. The coin commemorates the one hundredth anniversary of his birth.\n\nHe is buried in the Hietaniemi Cemetery in Helsinki.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853807", "title": "New Values", "text": "New Values\n\nNew Values is the third studio album by Iggy Pop and his first record since The Stooges' \"Funhouse\" and post-Stooges \"Kill City\" not to have any involvement from David Bowie. It was released in April 1979 by record label Arista.\n\n\"New Values\" was Pop's first record for Arista and the first collaboration by Pop and James Williamson since \"Kill City\". The album also reunited Pop and Williamson with multi-instrumentalist Scott Thurston, who had played live piano for The Stooges on \"Metallic K.O.\" and \"Kill City\".\n\nAlthough guitar was played by Williamson on \"Don't Look Down\", Scott Thurston played guitar on all other tracks, with Williamson concentrating on production. Likewise, although one of the songs was written by Pop and Williamson, five tracks were collaborations between Pop and Thurston.\n\n\"New Values\" was released in April 1979 by record label Arista. Although well-received critically, the album was not a commercial success, only reaching number 180 in the \"Billboard\" Top 200 album chart.\n\nVideos were made for \"I'm Bored\" and \"Five Foot One\".\n\n\"New Values\" has been well received by critics. Writing in \"NME\" at the time of the album's release, Paul Morley wrote that \"New Values\" \"conclusively endorses Osterberg as thinker and Iggy as performer, and the relationship is positive and proud.\"\n\nCharlotte Robinson of \"PopMatters\" wrote that the album's \"delicate balancing act of tough with tender, rebellion with contentment, sincerity with humor, cocksure wailing with nuanced balladeering ... makes the album a winner\".\n\nDavid Bowie later covered the \"New Values\" track \"Don't Look Down\" on his album \"Tonight\" (1984) and used it for the opening and closing titles of his short film \"Jazzin' for Blue Jean\".\n\nPixies frontman Frank Black cited \"New Values\" as one of his favorite albums.\n\n\"The Endless Sea\" was covered by the Australian psychedelic rock band The Church on their 1999 covers album \"A Box of Birds\".\n\n\"The Endless Sea\" is featured in the soundtrack of the 1986 film \"Dogs in Space\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1853810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853810", "title": "Central Provident Fund", "text": "Central Provident Fund\n\nThe Central Provident Fund Board (abbreviation: CPFB), usually known as either CPF Board or simply the Central Provident Fund (abbreviation: CPF) is a compulsory comprehensive savings and pension plan for working Singaporeans and permanent residents primarily to fund their retirement, healthcare, and housing needs in Singapore. The CPF is an employment-based savings scheme with the help of employers and employees contributing a mandated amount to the fund for their benefits.\n\nIt is administered by the Central Provident Fund Board, a statutory board operating under the Ministry of Manpower which is responsible for investing contributions.\n\nBritish colonial authorities in Singapore, proposed by David Marshall via the Progressive Party committee, created the Central Provident Fund in 1955 as a compulsory savings scheme to assist workers to provide for their retirement without needing to introduce a more extensive and costly old age pension. Money contributed to the Central Provident Fund earned a nominal rate of return. The Central Provident Fund was expanded in 1968 to provide for housing expenses under the Public Housing Scheme. In 1984 the Central Provident Fund was again expanded to cover medical care expenses. In 1986 an investment option was added to give members the opportunity to manage their own risk and returns.\n\nIn 1987, the Minimum Retirement Sum Scheme annuity was introduced. In 1990, MediShield health insurance funded by Central Provident Fund savings, was launched to provide universal healthcare to all Singaporeans. Later programs includes interest rate top up of 1% for the first $60,000 of retirement savings, the Workfare Income Supplement which supplements retirement savings for low-income older workers, and the Pioneer Generation Package which provides additional support for the medical expenses of older workers.\n\nWhen the CPF was started in 1955, both employees and employers contributed 5% of an employee's pay to the scheme. The rate of contribution was progressively increased to 25% for both employers and employees in 1985. The employer contribution was cut to 10% during a recession in 1986. The employer contribution rate was reverted to match the employee rate until the 1997–1998 Asian Financial Crisis, and thereafter lowered to 10% for workers 55 years or younger. Since then, the employer contribution rate has been gradually increased. Employers currently contribute 3 fewer percentage points of salaries over S$750 for employees up to 55 years old.\n\nEmployees and employers are required to make monthly contributions to the following CPF accounts:\n\nThe OA and SA is combined to form the Retirement Account (RA) when one turns 55. The RA is used to meet basic needs during old age.\n\nThe CPF savings earn a minimum interest of 2.5% for OA and 4% for other accounts. In addition, the first $60,000 in the combined CPF balances, with up to $20,000 from the Ordinary Account, will earn an extra 1% interest.\n\nAs of 2018, the employer's CPF contribution is 17% for those up to age of 55 and decreases to 7.5% for those 65 and above. The employee's CPF contribution is 20% up to age 55, above 55 to 60 years of age 13%, above 60 to 65 to 7.5%, and decreases to 5% for those 65 and above.\nThe CPF Minimum Sum (MS) Scheme requires all members to set aside a minimum sum of CPF savings in the RA for retirement needs upon reaching 55 years old. CPF savings from the OA and SA would be transferred to the RA for this purpose. Members whose savings are in excess of the MS and Medisave minimum sum would be allowed to withdraw them in cash. For members with insufficient savings in the RA, their property bought with their CPF savings will be automatically pledged to make up up to half of their MS. Members would receive a monthly stipend from their RA at the start of their draw down age until it is depleted.\n\nThe MS has been continuously increased over the years to account for inflation and longer life expectancies. CPF members who turn 55 between 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2015 will need to set aside a Minimum Sum of $155,000 in their Retirement Account and $40,500 in their Medisave Account. Over the years, the draw down age has been progressively delayed from 60 to 65. For the cohort who reached age 55 in 2016, only 53% of those who are active members met the Minimum Sum requirement, leaving 47% failing to do so.\n\nMembers with at least $40,000 in their Retirement Account at 55 or at least $60,000 at 65 years old will be asked to select a CPF LIFE annuity plan, which will give them an income for life, starting from their draw down age. Those who are not on CPF LIFE can choose to join it or continue to keep the monies in their Retirement Account.\n\nIt improves upon the Minimum Sum Scheme where payouts only last about 20 years. No minimum amount of RA savings will be needed to join CPF LIFE, however the monthly payout depends on the RA savings. Thus, members with lower RA balances will receive correspondingly lower monthly payouts.\n\nMembers who have a life annuity from an insurance company that provides equivalent benefits to that of CPF LIFE may be exempted from joining the scheme.\n\nMedisave may be used to cover for self or dependents' hospitalisation expenses. It may also be used for certain outpatient treatments like chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatments.\n\nSince 1 January 2004, CPF members who turn 55 and are able to meet the CPF Minimum Sum are required to set aside the Medisave Minimum Sum (MMS) in their MA when they make a CPF withdrawal. The MMS is set at $40,500 from 1 July 2013. OA and/or SA balances in excess of the Minimum Sum will be used to top up the MMS if it is insufficient.\n\nMediShield Life is a catastrophic medical insurance scheme to help one and their dependents to meet the high medical costs of prolonged or serious illnesses. Medisave savings may be used to cover the premiums for MediShield Life.\n\nMedifund helps the poor and needy to cover their medical bills.\n\nElderShield is a severe disability insurance scheme that provides monthly cash payout of $300 or $400 up to a maximum period of 5 or 6 years. CPF members with a Medisave account will be automatically enrolled into the scheme once they reach 40 years old unless they opt-out. In order to make a claim under this scheme, a person must lose the ability to perform at least three out of the six daily activities: Washing, Dressing, Feeding, Toileting, Mobility, Transferring.\n\nAs of 2018, depending on the payout, entry age and gender, the annual premium for Eldershield ranges from $152 to $3132. This premium is non-guaranteed and may be adjusted in the future.\n\nAccording to Minister for Health Gan Kim Yong, about $2.6 billion have been collected in premiums for ElderShield, out of which around $100 million have been paid out in claims and $130 million in premium rebates from its inception in 2002 to end 2015. According to Gan Kim Yong, ElderShield collects premiums while the policyholder is aged 40 to 65, and provides lifetime coverage from age 40, even after the policyholder reaches 65 and stops paying premiums. The total amount of premiums collected exceed the amount of claims paid to-date because the premiums collected are meant to provide coverage against future claims throughout policyholders’ lifetime.\n\nOn 25 May 2018, the Ministry of Health announced that it will be introducing a mandatory insurance scheme that will enhance the existing Eldershield by 2020 for those aged between 30 and 40. Similar to Eldershield, to claim under Careshield Life, one has to lose the ability to perform at least three out of six daily living activities. Careshield Life premium has a longer payment period of 38 years (variable depending on re-employment age cap) compared to 26 years for Eldershield and there is no way to OPT-OUT unlike Eldershield. The annual premium is also higher, starting at $200 for men joining at the age of 30 and $250 for women, with premium rising at 2% per annum initially. The monthly payout starts at $600 per month and last through a lifetime.\n\nThe Dependents' Protection Scheme provides a maximum coverage of $46,000 for families to tide over the first few years in the event of an insured member's terminal illness, total permanent disability or death up to 60 years old. The annual premium increases with age, from $36 at 21 years old to $260 at 55 years old.\n\nThe Ordinary Account savings can be used to purchase a home under the CPF housing schemes. A Housing and Development Board (HDB) flat may be purchased under the Public Housing Scheme, or a private property under the Residential Properties Scheme. CPF savings may be used for full or partial payment of the property, and to service the monthly housing payments. Home buyers who are taking a bank loan to finance their property purchase have to pay the first 5% of the down payment in cash. If a flat is purchased under the Public Housing Scheme, mortgage insurance under the Home Protection Scheme will be necessary.\n\nCPF members may invest their Ordinary Account balance under the CPF Investment Scheme – Ordinary Account (CPFIS-OA) and their Special Account balance under the CPF Investment Scheme – Special Account (CPFIS-SA), subject to caps. Assets that may be invested includes Insurance, unit trusts, Exchange Traded Funds (ETFs), Fixed Deposits, Bonds and Treasury Bills, Shares, Property Fund and Gold. From 1 July 2010, only monies in excess of $20,000 in the Ordinary Account and $40,000 in the Special Account can be invested.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2013, CPF members who left Singapore withdrew SGD$426 million, or 0.3 per cent of the average total members' balances each year.\n\nFrom 2013 to 2017, an annual average of 13,500 CPF members, or 0.4% of total CPF members, withdrew their CPF monies when they left Singapore.\n\nCPF savings can be withdrawn on the following grounds:\n\nOn 15 May 2014, Roy Ngerng made a post entitled \"Where Your CPF Money Is Going: Learning From The City Harvest Trial\" on his blog \"the Heart Truths\". Within the post, Ngerng created a chart which mapped the relationships between the Prime Minister of Singapore, Lee Hsien Loong, the Central Provident Fund (CPF), the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS), Temasek Holdings and the Government of Singapore Investment Corporation (GIC). Ngerng claimed there was an \"uncanny resemblance\" between this chart and another chart by news agency Channel News Asia regarding the relationship among City Harvest Church leaders, who were being charged with misappropriating funds.\n\nThe CPF has been described as \"a forced savings scheme\" for Singaporeans with \"monthly contributions into the fund\" to be saved for retirement, or for expenses on \"property, healthcare, and their children's education\", while the GIC has been described to have \"indirectly invested\" funds from the CPF. Singapore’s Ministry of Finance on its part has put forth its explanation as to why CPF funds are invested in Special Singapore Government Securities, to enable CPF Board to be able to pay its members all their monies when due, and the interest that it commits to pay on CPF accounts. The government securities are invested as part of a combined pool of funds managed by GIC, rather than managed in a separate dedicated fund, as a standalone fund would have to be managed conservatively to avoid the risk of failing to meet obligations to CPF members.\n\nOn 18 May, Prime Minister (PM) Lee responded through his lawyer Davinder Singh, who stated that the blog post alleged that Lee \"is guilty of criminal misappropriation of the monies paid by Singaporeans to the CPF\" and that the allegations were \"false and baseless\".\n\nNgerng said that the article was a call for greater transparency on the CPF, the GIC and Temasek Holdings. and called for PM Lee to rebut the points made in his blog post. Singapore’s Ministry of Finance has publicly stated that CPF monies are safe as all CPF monies are invested in securities that are issued and guaranteed by the Singapore Government, which is one of the few remaining triple-A credit-rated governments in the world.\n\nNgerng apologized \"unreservedly\" on 23 May, admitting that his allegation was \"false and completely without foundation\".\n\nOn 29 May 2014, Prime Minister Lee filed a defamation lawsuit against Ngerng. In a 4 August affidavit, Ngerng argued that his blog post had been misunderstood, and that he was merely asking for more transparency and accountability for CPF monies.\n\nOn 7 November 2014, the High Court of Singapore found Ngerng liable of defamation with damages to be assessed, which was the first such ruling in Singapore over a purely online article. Judge Lee Seiu Kin ruled that there was \"no triable defence\" and \"no doubt that it is defamatory to suggest that the plaintiff is guilty of criminal misappropriation\". An injunction against Ngerng was granted, barring him from publishing future similar accusations regarding PM Lee and the CPF. Ngerng expressed disappointment at the verdict, but maintained that he would \"still continue to speak up on the CPF and other issues that concern Singaporeans\".\n\nOn 17 December 2015 the court led by Lee Seiu Kin handed down a judgement ordering Ngerng to pay S$100,000 in general damages and S$50,000 in aggravated damages. Ngerng, through his lawyer, Eugene Thuraisingam proposed to pay the S$150,000 in instalments which was granted by the Prime Minister on the condition that Ngerng paid the S$30,000 in hearing costs immediately i.e. by 16 March 2016. Ngerng is expected to repay $100 a month from 1 April 2016 onwards over five years until 1 April 2021 when instalments are increased to S$1,000 until the full sum has been paid by the year 2033. Lee also rejected Ngerng's request to reimburse part of the damages i.e. S$36,000.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853811", "title": "Tomasz Franciszek Zamoyski", "text": "Tomasz Franciszek Zamoyski\n\nCount Tomasz Franciszek Zamoyski (1832–1889) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nTomasz was the 14th Ordynat of Zamość estate. He married Maria Potocka on 16 September 1869. They had six children together: Natalia Zamoyska, Maurycy Klemens Zamoyski, Franciszek Tomasz Zamoyski, Maria Zamoyska, Józefa Zamoyska and Józef Zamoyski (1880–1963).\n"}
{"id": "1853823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853823", "title": "Polish Press Agency", "text": "Polish Press Agency\n\nThe Polish Press Agency (, PAP) is Poland's national news agency, producing and distributing political, economic, social, and cultural news as well as events information.\n\nPolska Agencja Prasowa S.A. was incorporated in 1918 as the Polish Telegraphic Agency (PTA). In 1944 following the Soviet entry into German-occupied Poland, the company was taken over by the Polish communists and set up under its current name as the local alternative to the still functioning Polish Telegraphic Agency loyal to the Polish government in exile from 1939 in Paris and London. During the reign of communism in Poland PAP was a government institution and the official communist mouthpiece. In 1990 after the collapse of the Soviet Union and the fall of communism in Europe, the company was reformed and in 1991 the original PTA was finally merged into PAP to form the present day Agency.\n\nFor many years the celebrated travel writer Ryszard Kapuściński worked as a field reporter for PAP; his posting as the agency's first Africa correspondent provided the material and inspiration for many of his later writings.\n\nIn May 2018 PAP launched an English-language news portal called Thefirstnews.com claiming that foreign media did not portray the country \"entirely accurately\" and with the goal of reaching \"'specific opinion-forming circles' with the help of social media.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853831", "title": "Ezequiel Viñao", "text": "Ezequiel Viñao\n\nEzequiel Viñao (born July 21, 1960 in Buenos Aires) is an Argentine-American composer. He emigrated to the United States in 1980 and studied at the Juilliard School. His compositions include \"La Noche de las Noches\" (1989) for string quartet and electronics, which won First Prize at UNESCO's Latin-American Rostrum of Composers in 1993; six \"Études\" (1993) for piano solo, which were awarded a Kennedy Center Friedheim Award in 1995; a second string quartet \"The Loss and the Silence\" (2004), commissioned by the Juilliard String Quartet and titled with a quote from J.R.R. Tolkien's \"The Tale of Aragorn and Arwen\"; \"The Wanderer\" (2005) for a cappella voices, commissioned by Chanticleer and Chicago a cappella, and titled for the Old English poem of the same name; and \"Sirocco Dust\" (2009), commissioned by the Library of Congress for the St. Lawrence String Quartet. He currently resides in New York City.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853838", "title": "Web content management system", "text": "Web content management system\n\nA web content management system (WCM or WCMS) is a software content management system (CMS) specifically for web content. It provides website authoring, collaboration, and administration tools that help users with little knowledge of web programming languages or markup languages create and manage website content. A WCMS provides the foundation for collaboration, providing users the ability to manage documents and output for multiple author editing and participation. Most systems use a content repository or a database to store page content, metadata, and other information assets the system needs.\n\nA presentation layer (template engine) displays the content to website visitors based on a set of templates, which are sometimes XSLT files.\n\nMost systems use server side caching to improve performance. This works best when the WCMS is not changed often but visits happen regularly. Administration is also typically done through browser-based interfaces, but some systems require the use of a fat client.\n\nA web content management system controls a dynamic collection of web material, including HTML documents, images, and other forms of media. A WCMS facilitates document control, auditing, editing, and timeline management. A WCMS typically has the following features:\n\n\nA WCMS can use one of three approaches: \"offline processing\", \"online processing\", and \"hybrid processing\". These terms describe the deployment pattern for the WCMS in terms of when it applies presentation templates to render web pages from structured content.\n\nThese systems, sometimes referred to as \"static site generators\", pre-process all content, applying templates before publication to generate web pages. Since pre-processing systems do not require a server to apply the templates at request time, they may also exist purely as design-time tools.\n\nThese systems apply templates on-demand. They may generate HTML when a user visits the page, or the user might receive pre-generated HTML from a web cache. Most open source WCMSs support add-ons that extended the system's capabilities. These include features like forums, blogs, wikis, web stores, photo galleries, and contact management. These are variously called modules, nodes, widgets, add-ons, or extensions.\n\nSome systems combine the offline and online approaches. Some systems write out executable code (e.g., JSP, ASP, PHP, ColdFusion, or Perl pages) rather than just static HTML. That way, personnel don't have to deploy the WCMS itself on every web server. Other hybrids operate in either an online or offline mode.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853843", "title": "Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Clarendon", "text": "Henry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Clarendon\n\nHenry Hyde, 2nd Earl of Clarendon, PC (2 June 163831 October 1709) was an English aristocrat and politician. He held high office at the beginning of the reign of his brother-in-law, King James II.\n\nHe was the eldest son of Edward Hyde, 1st Earl of Clarendon, and his second wife, Frances Aylesbury. He was thus a brother of Anne Hyde, and maternal uncle to both Queen Mary II and Queen Anne. Both he and his brother Laurence Hyde were brought up partly at Antwerp and Breda, by their mother. Clarendon before 1660 made use of Henry as copyist, decipherer, and confidential secretary, in his correspondence with distant royalists.\n\nSoon after the return of his family to England, in 1660, Hyde married Theodosia Capell, daughter of Arthur Capell, 1st Baron Capell of Hadham, and Elizabeth Morrison, and sister of Mary Capell, Duchess of Beaufort. She died in 1661, and in 1670, he married secondly to Flower Backhouse, daughter of William Backhouse and Anne Richards, and widow of William Bishop and Sir William Backhouse (kinsman of her father), gaining the manor and house of Swallowfield Park, Berkshire, where he rebuilt the house. Later she was First Lady of the Bedchamber to Queen Anne of Great Britain. Queen Anne later took a dislike to her aunt, no doubt influenced by her best friend, Sarah Churchill, Duchess of Marlborough; Sarah detested Flower, whom she called \"the madwoman\". Hyde had the courtesy title Lord Cornbury, from 1661. He was Member of Parliament for Wiltshire, until 1674.\n\nIn 1662 he was appointed private secretary to Queen Catherine of Braganza, whose lord chamberlain he became in July 1665; in later years he may have regretted the appointment, as he and the Queen became embroiled in an almost interminable lawsuit over the arrears of her allowance. John Evelyn in 1664 helped him to plant Cornbury Park. He spoke on behalf of his father on his impeachment in 1667; and after his fall Lord Cornbury became an opponent of the court party and the Cabal Ministry, and attacked Buckingham and Arlington. On his father's death in 1674 he succeeded to the earldom of Clarendon. In 1680, the influence of his brother-in-law James, Duke of York, made him a privy councillor. Around the same time he was named keeper of Denmark House and treasurer and receiver-general of the queen's revenues. At this time, and often, he had money troubles.\n\nThe friendship of the Duke of York led to his inclusion with his brother Lawrence in the group whom the Commons early in January 1681 told the king were persons inclined to popery. By now a court loyalist, he was in a position to visit in the Tower of London both Arthur Capell, 1st Earl of Essex (brother to his first wife), in 1683, and in the next reign the Duke of Monmouth, and to plead the cause of Alice Lisle when she had been sentenced by Judge George Jeffreys.\n\nIn 1685, Henry's brother-in-law, King James II, appointed him Lord Privy Seal. A few months later, the office was put into commission, and he was made Lord-Lieutenant of Ireland.\n\nRichard Talbot, 1st Earl of Tyrconnell, had been summoned to London from the command of the military forces in Ireland about the date when Clarendon set out for Dublin (December 1685). On 9 January 1686 the new Lord-Lieutenant arrived in Dublin. He found his authority overshadowed by that of the absent commander-in-chief. Shortly Clarendon was told by Robert Spencer, 2nd Earl of Sunderland of the king's intention to introduce Roman Catholics into the Irish judicial and administrative system, as well as into the Irish Army. Clarendon warned bishops and preachers against offending Catholic feeling, and admitted Catholics as councillors and as officers of the army; and he urged their admission into town corporations. He made half-hearted protests to the king. In June 1686 Tyrconnel returned with full powers as commander-in-chief; Clarendon clung to his office.\n\nTyrconnell transformed the army; and in August 1686 he visited England to obtain the king's permission for legislation to replace the Act of Settlement 1662. Clarendon sent many protests to both king and queen during his rival's absence; but as his brother Lawrence (now Earl of Rochester) saw his influence dwindle, he came to the conclusion that no hope of retaining his post in Ireland remained except through the queen. About three weeks after the dismissal of Rochester (8 January 1687), he received his letter of recall from Sunderland. Tyrconnell, who took Clarendon's place had a final interview with him on 8 February. On 21 February Clarendon landed at Neston in Cheshire, carrying with him the account books of the stores.\n\nHenry and his brother, the Earl of Rochester, had fallen from the king's favour and were dismissed from office. The Privy Seal was given on 16 March 1687 to a Catholic, Henry Arundell, 3rd Baron Arundell of Wardour, and Clarendon withdrew for a while into private life. He had a marriage project of his eldest son, now Lord Cornbury, and money to raise for a settlement on the encumbered family estates. He engaged in speculations, ranging from the digging for coal in Windsor forest to the traffic of Scotch pedlars. A pension was conferred on him by James II about the beginning of 1688.\n\nHe advised the bishops in the Tower of London concerning their bail, and was asked by Jeffreys to use his good offices with William Sancroft. The Queen, on whose council he had been placed in 1681, sought him out. On 24 September 1688, the day after her friendly reception of him, Clarendon found the king himself, in view of the Dutch preparations for invasion, anxious to 'see what the Church of England men will do.' He became more resolute, and on 22 October, at the council summoned by the king to hear his declaration concerning the birth of the Prince of Wales, declined to sit by the side of Father Edward Petre, and asked to attend as a peer only.\n\nNine days after the landing of William of Orange Lord Cornbury deserted from the King to him (14 November), a turning point; and very difficult for Clarendon. (Mary, wife of William, was Henry's niece.) In the council of peers called by the King on his return to discuss the question of summoning a free parliament (27 November) Clarendon argued against the royal policy; and on 1 December he set out for Salisbury to make his peace with William. On 3 December he had an interview with William at Berwick, near Hindon, Wiltshire, and offered him his support. He was present at the Hungerford conference on 8 December, and followed the advance of the prince as far as Henley, where, on 13 December he obtained leave of absence. By the prince's desire he waited on him again at Windsor on 16 December, and presented to him his brother Rochester. It was at the conference held at Windsor that Clarendon was said to have suggested the confinement of King James to the Tower; while, according to Gilbert Burnet he proposed his relegation to Breda. He himself declared that, except at the Windsor meeting, he had never been present at any discussion about what should be done with King James, but that he was against the king being sent away. He was informed by William himself that the King had fled.\n\nClarendon took a Tory line, rejecting the Whig assumption that King James had abdicated, and the settlement of the crown upon William III and Mary II. He spoke to this effect in parliament, and he refused to take the oaths to the new government. William took it badly that Clarendon had represented him as hostile to the Church of England. Clarendon was in touch with Richard Graham, 1st Viscount Preston, a Jacobite plotter. On 24 June, Queen Mary II ordered her uncle arrested, and next day he was in the Tower of London. There he stayed, not specially well treated though he was allowed the company of his wife for a time, until 15 August. After his liberation, the plotting resumed. When Lord Preston on 31 December 1690 was arrested on the Thames River, the letters found upon him included one from Clarendon to King James. Preston named Clarendon among his accomplices; Clarendon, who from 4 January 1691, after being examined before the cabinet council, had been once more consigned to the Tower, remained there for several months. In July he was allowed into the country under care of his warder; and his release on bail soon followed.\n\nThe remainder of Clarendon's life was passed in tranquillity at his residences in the country, troubled only by his almost endless lawsuit with the Dowager Queen Catherine. Cornbury was in 1694, owing to money difficulties, denuded of many of the pictures collected by his father, and of at least a great part of its library; and in 1697, or shortly before, was sold by Clarendon to Rochester, though to spare his pride the sale was kept a secret till his death. The publication (1702–1704) of the first edition, in three volumes, of the \"History of the Rebellion\" by the first Earl, was mostly the work of Rochester; but Clarendon took an interest, and in 1704 he presented John Evelyn with the three printed volumes. Queen Anne would not receive him at Court, as a \"diehard\" Jacobite, but she did pay him a pension.\n\nClarendon died on 31 October 1709. His \"Diary (1687-1690) and Correspondence\", with the letters of his younger brother Rochester, first appeared in 1828; it was edited by Samuel Weller Singer from manuscripts of William Upcott. He had a fine collection of medals, and was author of the \"History and Antiquities of the Cathedral Church at Winchester, continued by Samuel Gale\", London, 1715.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853852", "title": "Maurycy Klemens Zamoyski", "text": "Maurycy Klemens Zamoyski\n\nCount Maurycy Klemens Zamoyski (1871–1939) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic), politician, social activist, and Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Polish government of the 1920s.\n\nMaurycy was the 15th Lord of the Zamość estate and the biggest land owner in pre-World War II Poland. He co-founded and chaired the Agricultural Society in 1903. In 1906, he was elected to the State Duma of the Russian Empire as a representative of Lublin Governorate. During the First World War he was the vice-chairman of the Polish National Committee in Warsaw and later vice-chairman of the Polish National Committee in Paris.\n\nHe campaigned in the 1922 presidential elections as a candidate of the right-wing supported by various political parties, most notably the National Democrats. He won four rounds of the election only to lose out in the final round to the surprise victor Gabriel Narutowicz, who was hence elected President of Poland. From 1919–1924 ambassador in Paris; from 19 January 1924 until 27 July 1924 Minister of Foreign Affairs.\n\nHe married Princess Maria Róża Sapieha on 18 July 1906 in Białka Szlachecka.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853855", "title": "They Saved Hitler's Brain", "text": "They Saved Hitler's Brain\n\nThey Saved Hitler's Brain is a 1968 science fiction film directed by David Bradley. It was adapted for television from a shorter 1963 theatrical feature film, Madmen of Mandoras, produced by Carl Edwards and directed by David Bradley. The film was lengthened by about 20 minutes with additional footage shot by UCLA students at the request of the distributor. It is often cited as being one of the worst films ever made.\n\nWorld War II is over, and Nazi officials remove Adolf Hitler's living head and hide it in the fictional South American country of Mandoras, so that they can resurrect the Third Reich for the future. Fast forwarding into the 1960s, the surviving officials kidnap a scientist in an attempt to keep Hitler alive. Various intelligence agencies, aware of the evil plot, recruit secret agents to bust the Nazi officials.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe film review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes gives \"They Saved Hitler's Brain\" a rare rating of 0%, based on 5 reviews from critics, with an average rating of 1.3/10. \"TV Guide\" described it as \"One of the all-time worst\". Film critic Danny Peary said it was \"A legitimate candidate for Worst Film Ever Made title.\" It was also one of the selections for \"The Golden Turkey Awards\". Leonard Maltin gave the film the lowest possible rating (BOMB). Maltin said it was \"unbelievably muddled\" after the addition footage, but he praised Cortez's cinematography.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853857", "title": "Donkey Kong Jr. Math", "text": "Donkey Kong Jr. Math\n\nIt is the only game in the Education Series of NES games in North America, owing to the game's lack of success. It was made available in various forms, including in the 2002 GameCube video game \"Animal Crossing\" and on the Virtual Console services for Wii and Wii U in 2017 and 2014 respectively. \"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was a critical and commercial failure. It has received criticism from several publications including IGN staff, who called it one of the worst Virtual Console games.\n\nThe game features two modes, one single-player and the allowing for one to two players. Its mechanics are similar to its predecessor, \"Donkey Kong Jr.\" The Calculate mode has Donkey Kong hold up a number, which players must attempt to reach by collecting a combination of digits and arithmetic symbols to eventually reach that number. Players must climb vines to reach these figures. The +-X% Exercise requires players to solve fixed math puzzles by climbing chains to reach the correct numbers and arithmetic symbols to do so.\n\n\"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was developed by Nintendo Research & Development 2 and designed by Toshihiko Nakago. It was published by Nintendo for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES) and Family Computer (Famicom). It reuses its engine, assets, and gameplay from \"Donkey Kong Jr.\" It was a part of the Educational Series on the NES, a series that was originally supposed to have three entries, including a \"Donkey Kong\" music game. However, it was the only one released under that line. A lack of success by the game was attributed by a Nintendo spokesman to be the reason Nintendo did not make more educational titles. It was the first spin-off title Nintendo made.\n\nThe game was first released in Japan on December 12, 1983, and was released shortly after together with \"Donkey Kong Jr.\" as a licensed multicart (released in a bundle together with Sharp's C1 NES TV). \"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was released for the NES in North America on October 18, 1985 and Europe in 1986. In August 1995, the Sharp multicart was re-released separately from the C1 NES TV. The game has been released on other platforms, including the video game \"Animal Crossing\", which featured several NES games. \"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was re-released on the Wii's Virtual Console in Japan on March 27, 2007, Europe and Australia on April 20, 2007, and in North America on September 3, 2007. It was re-released again for the Wii U's Virtual Console in North America on August 28, 2014, in Europe on January 22, 2015, and in Japan on April 15, 2015.\n\n\"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was a critical failure upon release and was similarly panned years later. Despite this negative reception, the magazine \"Joystick\" felt Nintendo was worthy of praise for its attempt at making an educational game. It was also a commercial failure, with a Nintendo spokesperson noting its lack of success as being due to poor reception. It performed better in Japan but was forgotten in the United States. Its poor sales contributed to it becoming a rare and expensive collector's item.\n\nJeremy Parish of \"Polygon\" called it the worst \"Donkey Kong\" video game, suggesting that it was a \"half-finished game\" to have a larger launch lineup on the Famicom. He was also critical of its asset reuse from \"Donkey Kong Jr.\", while Skyler Miller of \"Allgame\" found this reuse creative. Bob Mackey of \"1UP.com\" called it the worst NES launch window title, criticizing it for its lack of value and sluggish movement. It had a poor reception from \"IGN\", with Lucas M. Thomas finding its controls and execution poor, while Cam Shea regarded it as one of the worst Virtual Console games and criticized it for a lack of value. Dan Whitehead of \"Eurogamer\" similarly could not justify the asking price for the Virtual Console version. Frank Provo of \"GameSpot\" felt that its math problems were either too easy for young children or too boring for older ones. Damien McFarren of \"Nintendo Life\" criticized the game for \"shoehorning\" education into this game and for poor controls.\n\n\"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" has received criticism for its qualities as an educational game. Elizabeth Sweedyk, associate computer science professor at Harvey Mudd College, felt that \"Donkey Kong Jr. Math\" was too realistic an educational game to be fun. Kevin Gifford of \"1UP.com\" felt that it lacks appeal for children, while Frank Caron for Ars Technica felt it inferior to other educational games like \"Brain Age\" and \"Math Blaster\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1853858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853858", "title": "House of Bloo's", "text": "House of Bloo's\n\nHouse of Bloo's is the first episode of the animated television series \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\". The episode's plot follows Mac, an eight-year-old boy who is pressured by his mother to abandon his imaginary friend Bloo, on the grounds that he is too old for him. Upon seeing an ad on television for an orphanage for imaginary friends, Bloo convinces Mac to let him reside in the house so then Mac can visit him everyday. Various intrigues and troubles arise with Mac's brother Terrence and imaginary friend Duchess.\n\nIt premiered on August 13, 2004, at 7:30 pm E/P on Cartoon Network as a 90-minute movie. The episode was written and directed by the show's creator Craig McCracken, with further story work by his then-fiancée Lauren Faust and screenwriters Craig Lewis and Amy Keating Rogers. The episode debuted to positive reviews and high ratings.\n\nEight-year-old Mac and his imaginary friend Blooregard Q. Kazoo (or \"Bloo\" for short) often get into fights with his 13-year-old brother Terrence. When Mac's mother tires of this behavior, she tells him that he has outgrown his age to have an imaginary friend and must get rid of him. Crushed by overhearing their argument, except for Terrence, who is rather pleased, Bloo later comes across a TV commercial for \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\"--\"where good ideas are not forgotten,\" according to the motto.\n\nThe next day, Mac and Bloo stop in at the sprawling mansion and are met by Mr. Herriman, the strict business manager. After Bloo explains the situation in comically exaggerated detail, they are given a tour of the house. Frankie, the caregiver, is about to show Mac and Bloo around; however, she is soon called away by the ill-tempered, high-maintenance resident Duchess. Basketball-loving Wilt takes over the tour and introduces Mac and Bloo to the wide variety of imaginary friends that live in the house. Along the way, they meet Coco, who lays plastic eggs when she gets excited and only says \"Coco\" when she speaks, and the fearsome-looking but soft-hearted Eduardo. Mac and Bloo both think Foster's will be a good place for Bloo to live. However, Frankie tells them that if he stays there, he will be eligible for adoption whenever Mac is not around. Mac promises to stop by after school and departs, taking Coco's eggs with him, leaving Bloo alone with his new housemates who show him their bedroom where he will be sleeping at. Seeing Bloo about sleep on the floor, Wilt lets him take his bunk in exchange for sleeping on the floor and they all fall asleep for the night.\n\nThe next day, a wealthy rich couple stops by Foster's to find a friend for their spoiled daughter. They only want the best for her, and Frankie sees a perfect chance to get Duchess out of the house for good. The married couple agrees. Just as Mr. Herriman is getting ready to do the paperwork for the adoption, though, their daughter catches sight of Bloo and starts chasing him. Wilt, Coco, and Eduardo race all over the house to keep Bloo out of reach, but the married couple's daughter finally snatches him away and shows him to her mom and father. They agree, but only Mac's last-minute arrival saves him. The millionaires leave empty-handed, while Duchess becomes even angrier at not being able to leave Foster's, which she refers to as a dump, due to Bloo's interference.\n\nTerrence, meanwhile, has been watching from behind the bushes across the street and realizes that Mac has not gotten rid of Bloo. He and Duchess join forces to do away with their common enemy. As Mac is on his way to Foster's the next day, Terrence keeps him from reaching Foster's, carries him back home, and locks him in the bedroom closet. Terrence then pays a visit of his own, dressed to make a good impression. Duchess creates a diversion by provoking one of the Extremeasauruses (dangerous monster friends created by teenagers), leaving Bloo alone with Terrence.\n\nMac finds Coco's eggs in the closet and gets some tools from them needed to make his escape. He is too late to stop the adoption from going through, but he and the others soon realize that Terrence and Duchess are working together. That evening, Terrence takes Bloo to a junkyard and meets Duchess, who plans to feed Bloo to an Extremeasaurus she freed earlier as revenge for foiling her chance of being adopted. They are foiled by the arrival of Mac and company, who manage to save Bloo and trick the monster into turning on its masters.\n\nOnce everyone is back at Foster's, Mac and Bloo are surprised by the arrival of its founder, Madame Foster herself. She announces that Bloo can live there permanently and never be put up for adoption, as long as Mac visits him every day after school, although Mr. Herriman is not happy with this as it defies the house rules. As for Duchess, her punishment is to be forced to stay at Foster's, the place she hates so much, while Terrence finds himself at the mercy of a herd of annoyed pegasi, whom he had taunted earlier during the junkyard fight.\n\nCraig McCracken created the series and the episode, serving as writer and director. McCracken conceived the series upon adopting two dogs from an animal shelter with his then-fiancée Lauren Faust; he wondered what their life was like before adoption and applied the concept to that of imaginary friends. Animation for the show was done on Adobe Flash after hand-drawn artwork was processed on Illustrator. Character composition was done on After Effects.\n\nAnita Gates of \"The New York Times\" praised the episode and stated that the series would promise to be an \"admirable tale of loyalty and adventure-based learning with a contagious sense of fun\".\n\nMcCracken and Mike Moon won an Emmy Award for Outstanding Achievement in Animation in 2005 for their work in the episode. The show also received an Annie Award nomination for Best Character Design in an Animated Television Production.\n"}
{"id": "1853867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853867", "title": "Lisa Boyle", "text": "Lisa Boyle\n\nLisa Doreen Boyle (born August 6, 1964) is an American model known for her appearances in \"Playboy\" magazine and its various Special Editions. She is also a freelance photographer, shooting content for various publications.\n\nBoyle was born in Chicago, Illinois. She graduated from Chicago's Steinmetz High School in 1982. After high school, she headed off to Kailua, Hawaii, with a friend and worked as a waitress. A few months later, she returned to Chicago and for a short while before moving to Los Angeles. She ended up getting a job at a Hard Rock Cafe.\n\nAfter she broke up with her boyfriend, Boyle decided to become a nude model. She got an agent and within a month was signed up for \"Playboy\" magazine. She was asked to pose for the March/April 1995 edition of \"The Book of Lingerie\". A long list of \"Books of Lingerie\" followed, and she appeared in more than 15 editions between 1995 and 2000, five of which were cover shots. In addition to \"Playboy\", Boyle has also posed for \"Celebrity Skin\", \"L'Equipe\" magazine, \"Access\" magazine and \"Loaded\".\n\nBoyle started her acting career in 1988 with a part in \"Earth Girls Are Easy\" and had her first starring role, in 1994's \"Midnight Tease\" and the women in prison film \"Caged Heat 3000\". She is sometimes credited as Lisa D. Boyle, Lissa Boyle, Lisa Boyles, Cassandra Leigh, or Cassandrea Leigh. She has appeared in several other movies, including cameos in \"Lost Highway\" and \"Face/Off\" and more substantial roles in direct-to-video softcore movies including Cinemax's \"I Like to Play Games\" which helped cement her loyal following. In addition to movies, she has also appeared on TV shows such as \"Married... with Children\" (playing Fawn, one of Kelly Bundy's friends, in five episodes), \"Dream On\", \"Silk Stalkings\" and \"The Hughleys\". She has also appeared in several music videos, including Aerosmith's \"Falling in Love (Is Hard on the Knees)\" as well as Warren G's \"I Shot the Sheriff\".\n\nBoyle worked as a booth babe for Eidos Interactive at the 1999 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3).\n\nShe was a still photographer in the TV show \"Chasing Farrah\" in 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853869", "title": "Matthew 1:1", "text": "Matthew 1:1\n\nMatthew 1:1 is the opening verse in the first chapter of the Gospel of Matthew in the New Testament of the Christian Bible. Since Matthew is traditionally placed as the first of the four Gospels, this verse commonly serves as the opening to the entire New Testament.\n\nThe original Koine Greek, according to Westcott and Hort, reads:\n\nIn the King James Version of the Bible it is translated as:\n\nThe modern World English Bible translates the passage as:\n\nFor a collection of other versions see Biblehub Matthew 1:1\n\nThe opening of Matthew's Gospel fits with the theory of Markan priority. Scholars believe that the author of Matthew took \"The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God;\" and replaced \"the son of God\" with the beginning of the genealogy.\n\nThe phrase \"book of the genealogy\" or has several possible meanings. Most commonly it is seen as only referring to the list of ancestors that immediately follows, and most scholars agree that this interpretation is the most logical. However the phrase could also be translated more generally as \"the book of coming\" and could thus refer to the entire Gospel. Such opening phrases summarizing an entire work were common in an era before books had titles to serve this purpose. Jerome adopted this translation for the Vulgate. W. D. Davies and Dale Allison consider this to be the most likely meaning. \"Book of the genealogy\" is not a typical phrasing to introduce a genealogy. This phrase does appear in , but there it introduces a list of descendants rather than ancestors. The phrase also appears in , and there it has no relation to genealogies. Both 2:4 and 5:1 introduce elements of the creation story, and Davies and Allison feel it is likely that this verse is linked into the notion of a new genesis. They also point out that nowhere else in the New Testament does \"book\" refer to anything other than an entire work. Alternatively the phrase could have been deliberately created to serve the dual purpose of both introducing the entire work and the genealogy.\n\nRaymond E. Brown mentions a third translation is \"the book of the genesis brought about by Jesus\" implying that it discusses the recreation of the world by Jesus. This stretches the grammar considerably, however. The term \"genesis\" was at the time the gospel was written already attached as the name of the first part of the Torah, so the use of the term here could be a deliberate reference. \"Geneseos\" also appears at , but there it is almost always translated as \"birth\".\n\nThe now-common phrase \"Jesus Christ\" is used by the author of Matthew. What exactly is meant by this is much discussed. \"Christ\", the Greek word for messiah, literally translates as \"the anointed one\". In modern times both titles apply exclusively to Jesus, but Matthew is not specific as to whether Jesus is \"the\" Christ or merely \"a\" Christ. In fact the form Matthew uses indicates that the word \"Christ\" is being used as a title, which is unusual as this is a usage only adopted some time after the death of Christ. Elsewhere Matthew uses \"the Christ\". \n\nDavies and Allison note that both \"son of David\" and \"son of Abraham\" were titles in use in that era. \"Son of David\" was a common messianic title, while \"son of Abraham\" was an expression that could refer to any Jew. According to Brown some have theorized that David's name comes before Abraham's as the author of Matthew is trying to emphasize Jesus' Davidic ancestry. Brown doubts this, feeling the arrangement is merely to provide a lead into the genealogy that follows. Robert H. Gundry states that the structure of this passage attempts to portray Jesus as the culmination of the Old Testament genealogies.\n\nWhy the author of Matthew chooses to immediately begin his Gospel with a lengthy genealogy is an important question. As Fowler notes, the long list of names is of little interest to modern readers and potentially discourages people from reading further in the Gospel. Many editions of the Gospel essentially present it as beginning at for this very reason. This disinterest would not have been true, however, to the Jewish audience towards whom the Gospel was directed. Lineage and descent were of great importance in Jewish society of the time, and a descent from David and Abraham was crucial to accepting Jesus as the Messiah. The names, at least in the first part of the genealogy, would have been well known to the readers. Some feminist scholars have posited that the prominent position of the genealogy is also an implicit reinforcement of the patriarchal nature of society. They argue that beginning the Gospel with a long string of \"X father of Y\" clearly exemplifies the masculine domination. Harold Fowler argues that the genealogy also serves to immediately humanize Jesus, by placing him clearly in the family of men.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853882", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853882", "title": "Pierre-Arnoul de Marneffe", "text": "Pierre-Arnoul de Marneffe\n\nPierre-Arnoul Frédéric Guy Donat de Marneffe is a Belgian computer scientist and professor emeritus at the University of Liège (ULg). He studied civil engineering (mechanics section) at the Faculté polytechnique de Mons (FPMs) and obtained a PhD in applied sciences at the ULg (1976), in addition he obtained a Ph.D. in Computer science at Cambridge University in 1982.\n\nHis ideas expressed in \"Holon Programming\" inspired Donald Knuth in creating WEB, the first published literate programming environment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853886", "title": "Orange Curtain", "text": "Orange Curtain\n\nThe Orange Curtain is a local term for the border between Orange County and Los Angeles County in the U.S. state of California. It is a sometimes derogatory, sometimes lighthearted term that is used to describe Orange County's more conservative and suburban population as compared to the more liberal and urban population of Los Angeles. \n\nThe phrase is a wordplay on the so-called Iron Curtain which separated communist and capitalist Europe.\n\nAccording to Colleen Cotter, \"Because [Orange County] has a reputation for political conservatism, people from Northern California especially worry about what happens 'Behind the Orange Curtain'.\"\n\nThe Orange Curtain began from the fact that between 1890 and 1950, Orange County was wholly white and \"the region's predominately Irish settling also embraced an ideology of small government.\n"}
{"id": "1853888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853888", "title": "King's Indian Attack", "text": "King's Indian Attack\n\nThe King's Indian Attack (or KIA), also known as the Barcza System (after Gedeon Barcza), is a chess opening system for White.\n\nThe opening is not a series of specific moves, but rather a \"system\" that can be played from many different move orders. Though the KIA is often reached via 1.e4 followed by d3, Nd2 (or Qe2), Ngf3, g3, Bg2, and 0-0, it can also arise from 1.g3, 1.Nf3, or even 1.d3.\nThe KIA is a mirror image of the setup adopted by Black in the King's Indian Defence. Yet, because of White's extra tempo, the nature of the subsequent play is often different from that of a typical King's Indian Defence.\n\nBy its nature, the KIA is a closed, strategic opening that presents its practitioner with common themes and tactics and a comfortable middlegame against various defences. White's most common plan involves a central pawn push, e4–e5, leading to a central bind, , and concrete attacking chances on a kingside-castled black king. Black's resources—more space for example—are not to be underestimated. In fact, this asymmetry often leads to violent middlegames and neatly constructed mating nets involving sacrifices.\n\nThe KIA is characterised by a fianchetto and developing its knights to d2 and f3 respectively. White also maintains king safety by castling kingside. White also has a good control of the centre.\n\nThe KIA is often used against the semi-open defences where Black responds asymmetrically to e4, such as in the French Defence, Sicilian Defence, or Caro–Kann Defence. Yet it can also be played against Black's more common defenses, usually through a move order that begins with 1.Nf3 and a later fianchetto of the white-square bishop. For this reason, transpositions to the Réti Opening, Catalan Opening, English opening or even the Nimzo-Larsen Attack (after b3 and Bb2) are not uncommon.\n\nThe KIA is considered a solid opening choice for White, although less ambitious than many more popular openings. Though rarely used at the highest levels except to avoid certain pet lines, it is extremely popular at the club level, because it is easier to learn than other openings that require memorising specific move orders to avoid bad positions.\n\nKing's Indian Attack (A07) is 1.Nf3 d5 2.g3 (see diagram). Common Black responses are 2...Nf6, 2...c6, 2...Bg4, 2...c5, and 2...g6. Then White can play 3.Bg2.\n\nKing's Indian Attack (A08) is 1.Nf3 d5 2.g3 c5 3.Bg2.\n\n1.Nf3 d5 2.g3 Bg4 3.Bg2 Nd7 is the Keres Variation.\n\n1.Nf3 Nf6 2.g3 d5<br>\n1.Nf3 c5 2.g3 d5\n\n1.Nf3 d5 2.g3 Nf6 3.d4 (D02)\nThe following games are perhaps the most famous examples of the KIA.\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "1853893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853893", "title": "First Nations in British Columbia", "text": "First Nations in British Columbia\n\nFirst Nations in British Columbia constitute many First Nations governments and peoples in the province of British Columbia. Many of these Native Canadians are affiliated in tribal councils. Ethnic groups include the Haida, Coast Salish, Kwakwaka'wakw, Gitxsan, Tsimshian, Nisga'a and other examples of the Pacific Northwest Coast cultures, and also various Interior Salish and Athapaskan peoples, and also the Ktunaxa.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853895", "title": "Middle Sackville, Nova Scotia", "text": "Middle Sackville, Nova Scotia\n\nMiddle Sackville is a suburban community located in Nova Scotia's Halifax Regional Municipality. The community was named after George Germain, 1st Viscount Sackville.\n\nMiddle Sackville is located immediately north of Lower Sackville and south of Upper Sackville. It is one of several communities situated in Census Subdivision C, which experienced a 7% population growth rate between 1996–2001.\n\nAs a result of its unincorporated status until 1996, Middle Sackville and adjacent unincorporated communities such as Lower Sackville and Upper Sackville did not benefit from appropriate planning and are an example of urban sprawl. The boundaries for the three Sackville communities were \"officially\" defined in 2013 by HRM and areas (such as the popular Millwood subdivision) that in the past were informally called Lower Sackville were changed to Middle Sackville. Boundaries were based on historic accounts of the areas.\n\nMiddle Sackville was the site of an early black community in the area of Maroon Hill. The Maroons were blacks brought in from Jamaica to help with the building of the Halifax Citadel and other capital works. The Maroons did not settle permanently and were later relocated to Freetown by the British.\n"}
{"id": "1853901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853901", "title": "Alcácer do Sal", "text": "Alcácer do Sal\n\nAlcácer do Sal () is a municipality in Portugal, located in Setúbal District. The population in 2011 was 13,046, in an area of 1499.87 km.\n\nThere has been human settlement in the area for more than 40,000 years; archaeological investigations have placed human presence here back to the Mesolithic Period, when the first peoples began to concentrate in the areas around Alcácer. This period was characterized by exploitation of the ecosystem in the Sado Estuary, when the river extended to São Romão, involving fishing, scavenging for shellfish, hunting and foraging in the local forests. The primitive tools, made from chert, were adapted from the techniques of the late Paleolithic era. By the late Mesolithic period, people had concentrated in the area of Comporta and Torrão, later establishing primitive defensive protection to support its communities.\n\nThese principal settlements were abandoned by the Copper Age, but repopulated during the Iron Age, as was the case of Alcácer. Mediterranean trade, pioneered by the Phoenicians, introduced commercial colonies in Abul and Alcácer (then referred to as \"Bevipo\" or \"Keition\"), where a written alphabet and currency allowed commerce to flourish.\n\nAfter the Third Punic War, with the fall of Carthage, Alcácer was annexed to the Roman Empire (around 1st-2nd century B.C.). The municipality of present Alcácer became known as \"Urbs Imperatoria Salacia\" in honor of the sea god Neptune's wife, nymph Salacia, for its importance in the Iberian salt trade and the number of routes that crossed the area. Salatia suffered many of the problems that developed from the Roman \"urbes\" localized between Atlantic routes and Romanized northern Europe, and was made incrementally worse by Emperor Claudius's initiatives into England and Wales. These problems changed during the 3rd Century, when the port of Salatia was devalued, in favor of \"Olisipo\" (Lisbon).\n\nWith the rise of Gaul, most of Hispania became a vassal state of the larger empire. Returning to the Imperial fold with the 296AD reorganization of Roman territories by Diocletian (in order to subvert the \"Military Anarchy\" that existed at the time), Salatia's role was transformed. Circa 300? it was the seat of a Diocese of Salácia (Portuguese) / Salacien(sis) (Latin) / Salarien(sis) (Latin), which was however suppressed around 350.\nIn the following centuries, Salatia became a poor distant colony of the much larger centers of Setúbal or Lisbon. The only exception was Torrão, which continued to prosper. Until 711, when the region was annexed by the Umayyad Caliphate of Damascus, the population of the hilltop areas of Salatia left in favor of the low lands along the river.\n\nThe Ummayad rule on the Iberian Peninsula, in the reign of Abu-l-Khattar (743-745) over the region of Beja, which included Alcácer, was noted for the recruitment of troops, and for the rising power of Yemeni clans in southern Portugal. The entire region was later administered by Egyptian Arab troops, that selected Beja as their regional seat. Until 844, Alcácer functioned as center for the collection of taxes in the lower Sado valley: collected primarily from the Christians who chose to remain in the valley. The first Viking raids in this year forced a political reorganization, and Alcácer became an important outpost of Al-Andalus.\n\nAfter an internal victory over Muladi rebels in 888, the city was offered as reward to the Banu Dānis clan, and its keep was renamed \"Qaşr Abī Dānis\" (قصر أبي دانس ; ), commonly known simply as \"Al Qaşr\" (). The village of Al Qaşr was the base for a large fleet and arsenal that was used during the Christian-Moorish Reconquista. In 997 a Moorish fleet transported troops from Alcácer to Porto, to support Al-Mansur Ibn Abi Aamir, that culminated in the destruction of the sanctuary of Santiago de Compostela. It was then capital of the Al Qaşr Province, which by the 12th Century was a center of merchant traffic, supported by the opulent tastes of Évora. Muhammad al-Idrisi noted that forestry, and in particular pine tree harvesting, was important during this period, as was cattle raising and major agricultural cultivation. During the Almoravid dynasty Al Qasr became the administrative regional seat of an area that extended along the Atlantic coast until Trujillo, Cáceres.\n\nRecords of the Norwegian Crusade, held from 1107 to 1110, in the aftermath of the First Crusade, and led by Norwegian king Sigurd I, include a reference to the Norwegians winning a battle in the town of Alkasse (which is possibly a reference to Al Qaşr) - where they killed such a large number of people that the town was said to have been left empty, and looted many treasures. However, the Norwegians then sailed on to the Holy Land and the town - with whatever inhabitants survived - remained Muslim.\n\nDuring the Fifth Crusade, when Afonso II of Portugal had a truce with the Almohads, Sueiro Bishops of Lisbon and Évora joined the Cistercian abbot of Alcobaça, the commander of Palmela, the Templars, the Hospitallers, and magnates, in an attempt to persuade the crusaders to attack the Moors in Alácer do Sal. The city of Alcácer had been lost since 1191 in the aftermath of the Third Crusade campaigns of Alvor and Silves. The keep in Alcácer was conquered for the first time by the Portuguese in 1160. In 1191, it returned to Arab hands under the direction of Ya´qub al-Mansur, who transformed it into the military garrison of \"Garb al-Andalus\". According to \"De itinere frisonum\" the Frisian Crusaders refused to help on account of Innocent III prohibition to Bishop Souiro, and departed for the Holy Land, even after being provided food, expenses, and rousing oratories about the Almohads' annual demands for 100 Christians in tribute. Meanwhile, ships under the command of William I of Holland and Goerge of Weid arrived in Alácer do Sal on 2 August 1217. They were joined by Portuguese sent to lay siege to the castle. Muslim governors in Seville, Córdoba, Jaén and Badajoz attempted to relieve the garrison but their reinforcements were defeated on 11 September. The castle surrendered on 18 October 1217, with additional Christian troops provided by Pedro Alvítiz from Castile.\n\nOnce the castle was taken, many of the northern Crusaders requested Pope Honorius III allow them to remain for a year \"\"for the liberation of Hispania\"\" and \"\"the extirpation of the perfidious cult of the pagans\"\". The victory in Alcácer do Sal also motivated Alfonso IX of León, Sancho VII of Navarre, in addition to Iberian prelates and nobles, to break their truces with the Muslim leaders, in hopes that the northern Crusaders would continue their campaigns the following summer. But, the Pope granted only absolution from their vows to those who could not continue to the Holy Land, and the Crusaders left the \"Castle\" to the Portuguese and continued on to Acre.\n\nThe capture of Al Qaşr was the only permanent conquest of the Fifth Crusade. In 1218, Alcer do Sal received its foral from King Afonso II, and handed over to the Knights of Santiago, who made it their headquarters during their advance into the Alentejo and Algarve. The Order of Santiago dominated an area from Sesimbra until the Algarve, controlling the lower Sado, Alentejo Litoral and coast of Cape St. Vincent. At the end of the 13th century, the Order advanced to Mértola to support reconquest of the Algarve, but later retreated to Alcácer and remained there until 1482, when they returned to Palmela.\n\nAlong with the Christians and the town's small population of Jews, the remaining Muslims in Alácer do Sal begin to occupy the low country along the river, and vacate the Castle. The Muslims, under the \"King's protection\" remained in the community.\n\nIn 1495, Manuel I was acclaimed King by the residents of the village.\n\nBy the 16th century, the whole Sado Basin, where Alcácer do Sal is located, had experienced an important African immigration as a way to compensate for the demographic deficit that accompanied the Portuguese overseas expansion. Later, in the 18th century, a new wave of slaves was recruited to Alcácer do Sal to work the salt fields and cultivate rice, the two important economic activities in the region. A recent genetic study in 2010 found in Alcacer the highest frequencies (22%) of Sub-Saharan maternal lineages reported so far in Europe and, according to the authors, likely associated with the influx of African slaves between the 15th and 19th centuries.\n\nA few kilometres from the city of Alcácer, along the course of the Sado, is the \"Reserva Natural do Estuário do Sado\" (\"Sado Estuary Nature Reserve\") which covers an area of , comprising marshes, canals, streams and mangroves.\n\nThe municipality is bounded to the north by the municipalities of Palmela, Vendas Novas and Montemor-o-Novo; northeast by Viana do Alentejo; east by Alvito; south by Ferreira do Alentejo and Grândola; to the west, also by Grândola, along a branch of the Sado Estuary; and northwest by the Setúbal.\n\nAlcácer do Sal is a historical city and municipality that overlooks the Sado River; its medieval town developed from barrios that surrounded an ancient Muslim castle. Alcácer do Sal is the municipal seat, which includes two civil parishes, both having a population of 6002 residents.\n\nThe second-largest municipality () in the country, it is administratively subdivided into four civil parishes ():\n\nA very interesting museum, documenting the occupation of the city since the Iron Age, exists under the castle, now a pousada hotel. Santa Susana includes many white-painted houses, and is the location of the municipalities principal dam, Pego do Altar, and tourist-friendly water activities and forests.\n\nThe highest recorded temperature in Alcácer do Sal was on 4 August 2018.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853902", "title": "Alcochete", "text": "Alcochete\n\nAlcochete () is a municipality in Portugal. The population in 2011 was 17,569, in an area of 128.36 km². The municipality is composed of three parishes and is located in Setúbal District.\n\nAlcochete is known for its bullfighting tradition and its proximity to the second-longest bridge in Europe, the Vasco da Gama Bridge.\n\nThe actual site of present-day Alcochete was already occupied during Roman times with a clay production facility. Its name is thought to derive from the Arabic word for oven for reasons not yet understood. It became a vacation site preferred by the Portuguese royalty and the future king D. Manuel I was born in the village. It has experienced major development due to the construction of the Vasco da Gama Bridge.\n\nOn January 10, 2008, Portuguese prime minister José Sócrates announced that Alcochete had been selected as the site of the new airport serving Lisbon, Portugal's capital. The existing Portela Airport, which is located within the city of Lisbon itself, has become too small to handle demand. This preliminary decision will be finalised after public consultation. The location of Alcochete as the construction site of the future Lisbon Airport was confirmed by the Portuguese Government on May 8, 2008.\n\nSporting Clube de Portugal has a football training facility (Academia Sporting in Alcochete), which accommodated Portugal during the Euro 2004 competition. Famous for its football youth academy system which features a range of well-equipped facilities and is one of the most renowned in the world, Sporting has continuously developed many world class footballers, such as Ballon d'Or recipients Cristiano Ronaldo and Luís Figo. The current squad for the 2015-2016 season has 11 players graduated from their youth ranks, including Rui Patrício, William Carvalho, João Mário, Adrien Silva, André Martins, Rúben Semedo, Carlos Mané, Ricardo Esgaio, Tobias Figueiredo, Gelson Martins and Matheus Pereira.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 3 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "1853914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853914", "title": "Florida Blazers", "text": "Florida Blazers\n\nThe Florida Blazers were an American football team who played in the World Football League in 1974. The team moved to San Antonio in 1975 and became the San Antonio Wings.\n\nThe Blazers began in 1974 when oceanographic engineer E. Joseph Wheeler bought the WFL rights to the Washington, D. C. area. The team was originally called the Washington Capitals, but the NHL expansion team of the same name objected, forcing him to change the name to the Washington Ambassadors. Wheeler wanted to share RFK Stadium with the Washington Redskins, but negotiations hit a snag over financing. He then flirted with playing in Baltimore or Annapolis, prompting him to change the team's name to the Washington-Baltimore Ambassadors. When it became apparent that Wheeler could not find a suitable stadium in the Baltimore-Washington area, he moved the club to Norfolk, Virginia as the Virginia Ambassadors. By this time, it was obvious that Wheeler's supposed $2–3 million of financing existed only on paper.\n\nLeague president Gary Davidson got Wheeler in touch with former New England Patriots player and executive Rommie Loudd, who was fronting for a group of Orlando businessmen who had recently failed in their bid to get the NFL expansion team that became the Tampa Bay Buccaneers. Wheeler agreed to sell the team to Loudd's group, who moved the team to Orlando. The team was originally named the Orlando Suns, but due to objections from the Southern California Sun the name was changed once again, to the Florida Blazers. They were the first professional sports team based in Central Florida.\n\nLoudd became managing general partner and president, making him the first African-American senior executive of a professional team in North America. David L. Williams, owner of the Holiday Inn franchise in the Orlando area, was majority owner.\n\nThe team set up shop in the Tangerine Bowl. Under coach Jack Pardee, quarterback Bob Davis (Joe Namath's former backup), running back Tommy Reamon and a dominating secondary, the Blazers ran away with the Eastern Division, finishing with a 14-6 record. They then upset the Memphis Southmen, owners of the league's best record, to advance to the World Bowl against the Birmingham Americans. Early in that game, Reamon scored what appeared to be the game's first touchdown, only to have it ruled a touchback because the officials believed that he fumbled the ball out of the end zone. Replays clearly showed that Reamon lost the ball after it broke the plane of the goal line. The missed call proved to be the difference, as the Blazers lost 22-21.\n\nOff the field, the franchise was unraveling. The Blazers never drew well, leading Loudd to openly discuss moving the team to Atlanta in the middle of the season. The players and coaches were not paid for three months. In December 1974, shortly after the Blazers' defeat in the World Bowl, Loudd was arrested on tax evasion and cocaine trafficking charges. He was convicted on the latter charge and served three years in prison.\n\nAfter speculation that the Blazers might move to Akron, Ohio or Tulsa, San Antonio banker Norman Bevan bought the club in early March 1975, whereupon they became the San Antonio Wings.\n\nThe new Wings retained 16 former Blazers, including running back Jim Strong and tight end Luther Palmer. Larry Grantham, a linebacker on the 1974 Blazers, retired but joined the Wings' coaching staff. However, several former Blazers, including Pardee, wanted nothing more to do with the WFL. This forced the league to restock the team with an expansion draft. The new head coach was Perry Moss, a former head coach at Marshall and a former NFL assistant coach.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853920", "title": "Tommy Nobis", "text": "Tommy Nobis\n\nThomas Henry Nobis Jr. (September 20, 1943 – December 13, 2017) was an American football linebacker who played in the National Football League (NFL) for 11 seasons with the Atlanta Falcons. He played college football at the University of Texas and was the first overall selection in the 1966 NFL draft.\n\nBorn and raised in San Antonio, Texas, Nobis played football at Thomas Jefferson High School, where he was an all-state offensive end and middle linebacker for the Mustangs.\n\nNobis is one of college football's all-time greatest linebackers. In his tenure with the Texas Longhorns (1963–1965) he averaged nearly 20 tackles a game and, as the only sophomore starter, was an important participant on the Longhorns' 1963 national championship team, which defeated #2 Navy led by Heisman Trophy winner Roger Staubach in the Cotton Bowl. Nobis was also a member of the Kappa Alpha Order fraternity at the university.\n\nNobis was a two-time All-American and made the All-Southwest Conference team three times. As a junior in the 1965 Orange Bowl, he made one of the most famous tackles in the game's history. On fourth-and-inches, and clinging to a 21–17 lead, Nobis led his teammates to a game-saving halt of top-ranked Alabama’s QB Joe Namath. Nobis was an iron man, playing (and starting) on both defense and offense for his entire college career. Aside from being an All-American linebacker, he also played guard on the offensive side of the ball and was often the primary blocker on touchdown runs. Famed Texas head coach Darrell Royal called him \"the finest two-way player I have ever seen.\" A knee injury slowed him during the latter part of his senior season, but he still was able to perform at a high level and won a number of major individual awards including the Knute Rockne Award, best lineman, the Outland Trophy, best interior lineman, and the Maxwell Award for college football’s best player. Nobis also finished seventh in the Heisman voting to USC's Mike Garrett. He appeared on the covers of \"LIFE\", \"Sports Illustrated\" and \"TIME\" magazines.\n\nIn November 1965, Nobis became the first player drafted by the expansion Atlanta Falcons as well as the second linebacker to be chosen first overall when he was taken with the #1 pick in the 1966 NFL draft, held on November 27, 1965. The Houston Oilers also selected him in the AFL draft. This presented a dilemma and also sparked a debate that reached as far as outer space when astronaut Frank Borman, aboard Gemini 7, talked back to earth with the message, \"tell Nobis to sign with Houston.\" (Borman's sons were ball boys for the Oilers.) Nobis instead signed with Atlanta on December 14 and became the first member of the Atlanta Falcons, gaining the nickname \"Mr. Falcon.\"\n\nTommy Nobis joined the Falcons for their inaugural season in 1966. That season, he won the league's NFL Rookie of the Year, was voted to the Pro Bowl and amassed 294 combined tackles which still stands today as the team's all-time single-season record, and is unofficially the most tackles ever credited to one player, in a season, in NFL history. In eleven professional seasons he led the Falcons in tackles nine times, went to five Pro Bowls (one in 1972 after two knee surgeries), was named All-Pro twice and was chosen for the NFL's \"All-Decade Team\" for the 1960s. Miami Dolphins great, running back Larry Csonka commented, \"I'd rather play against Dick Butkus than Nobis,\" and Falcons coach Norm Van Brocklin once pointed to Nobis' locker and proclaimed, \"There's where our football team dresses.\"\n\nNobis is a member of the Atlanta Falcons' Ring of Honor and his #60 was the first number retired by the team. No other Falcons player has ever worn the number. In 2005, he was named to the Professional Football Researchers Association Hall of Very Good in the association's third HOVG class.\n\nNobis enjoyed a successful NFL career that many believe is worthy of Pro Football Hall of Fame induction. Former NFL player and coach Dan Reeves, while head coach of the Falcons, remarked, \"As a running back for eight seasons in the NFL, I certainly took my share of hits. Unfortunately I remember some of them, particularly the ones from Falcons linebacker Tommy Nobis. 'Mr. Falcon,' as he is known in this part of the country, should be considered a worthy candidate for the Hall of Fame.” Reeves based his assertion on the fact that while playing in Atlanta, prior to the days of mass media coverage, Nobis was overlooked because of the “Falcons lack of success during his tenure”. He states, “I played and coached on some great teams while I was with Dallas. Those teams consisted of Hall of Fame members like Bob Lilly, Roger Staubach and Tom Landry. I feel that Nobis' contributions on the field merit those of the Cowboys Hall of Fame players.” \"Atlanta Journal-Constitution\" columnist and Hall of Fame voter Furman Bisher wrote, \"There isn't much more one can say about Tommy Nobis. In the glow of a winning team, where he would have been a star on the isolated camera, he would already have been residing in Canton. It's not a Falcons thing, it's a Nobis thing, and here is a man who lives up to all the ideals I would establish for admission to the Pro Football Hall of Fame.\" \n\nNumber 60 is also revered at Texas where it was offered only to the best of linebackers. All American Britt Hager wore #60 during his senior season, as did All American Brian Jones. In 2004, another Longhorn All-American linebacker, Derrick Johnson, decided to wear the jersey in his final collegiate home game to honor Nobis. The number has recently joined Earl Campbell's #20, Bobby Layne's #22, Ricky Williams' #34, Vince Young's #10 and Colt McCoy's #12 as UT's only retired numbers.\n\nTommy Nobis was inducted into the Texas Longhorn Hall of Honor in 1976. He was named to \"Sports Illustrated\" ’s All-Century Team (1869–1969) and is a member of the College Football Hall of Fame, the State of Texas Hall of Fame, the Georgia Sports Hall of Fame, the San Antonio Sports Hall of Fame, and the Atlanta Sports Hall of Fame. In May 2007, he was inducted as a charter member into the Thomas Jefferson High School Alumni Hall of Fame.\n\nTommy Nobis retired from the Falcons after 40 years as a member of the organization, in the front office and on the field.\n\nApart from football, Nobis was a co-founder and a Board of Directors member of the Tommy Nobis Center that began in 1976. The mission of the organization is to develop and provide job training, employment, and vocational support for youth and adults with disabilities and other barriers to employment. He won the Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. award for his work with the Georgia Special Olympics and has been named the NFL Man of the Year.\n\nTommy Nobis died on December 13, 2017 at home at age 74, with his wife by his side, after an extended illness. On January 28, 2019 researchers from Boston University confirmed that Nobis had the most severe form of chronic traumatic encephalopathy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853921", "title": "The Beverly Hillbillies (film)", "text": "The Beverly Hillbillies (film)\n\nThe Beverly Hillbillies is a 1993 American comedy film starring Jim Varney, Diedrich Bader, Erika Eleniak, Cloris Leachman, Lily Tomlin, Dabney Coleman, Lea Thompson, Rob Schneider and Penny Fuller. It is based on the 1962–1971 TV series of the same name and features cameo appearances by Buddy Ebsen (the original Jed Clampett, in his final motion picture appearance, playing his other classic character, Detective Barnaby Jones), Dolly Parton, and Zsa Zsa Gabor. The film was directed by Penelope Spheeris.\n\nThe film follows a poor hillbilly named Jed Clampett (Jim Varney), who becomes a billionaire when he accidentally discovers crude oil after missing his target while hunting.\n\nJed Clampett (Jim Varney), a hillsman of humble station of Arkansas, accidentally discovers oil on his land while shooting at a rabbit. Ozark Mountain Oil, interested in purchasing his land, offers him $1 billion for the property. Unsure of what to do, Jed consults his cousin, Pearl Bodine (Linda Carlson), during a family dinner. Pearl suggests a change of scenery for Jed's daughter, Elly May (Erika Eleniak), would be a good thing. Pearl and Jethrine convince them to move to Beverly Hills California. Ozark Mountain Oil came by Jed's place to check to see if Jed signed the contract. Having made up his mind and signed the contract and move to Beverly Hills, Jed and his daughter, his mother-in-law Granny (Cloris Leachman), and his nephew, Jethro (Diedrich Bader), Pearl's son, load up Jethro's old, dilapidated truck with their possessions and move to Beverly Hills, California, even though Granny is reluctant to come.\n\nMilburn Drysdale (Dabney Coleman), the CEO of the Commerce Bank of Beverly Hills (where Jed's money is stored), sends out his secretary/assistant, Jane Hathaway (Lily Tomlin) to meet the Clampetts at their new estate that is next door to his. Jane calls the Beverly Hills Police after the Clampetts arrive, mistaking them for burglars. Upon learning of Jane's mistake at the police station, Drysdale briefly fires her. But seeing that Jed insists that he still wants her to watch over his affairs, Drysdale rehires her.\n\nThe Clampetts settle into their new surroundings. Drysdale pushes his reluctant son, Morgan Drysdale (Kevin Connolly), into befriending Elly May, to whom he eventually develops an attraction. Jane is also smitten by Jethro, who seems ignorant of her affections.\n\nJed requests Jane's assistance in helping him search for someone who will help turn Elly May into a lady and also wants to get married. So Miss Hathaway has to play matchmaker. Woodrow Tyler (Rob Schneider), an employee in Drysdale's bank, catches wind of this and contrives a scheme with his con artist girlfriend, Laura Jackson (Lea Thompson), to steal Jed's money by having her marry Jed. She poses as a French etiquette teacher, Laurette Voleur, and asks for work. \"Laurette\" feigns romantic interest in Jed, which eventually causes him to propose marriage to her.\n\nShortly before the wedding, Granny hears Laura and Woodrow talking about the scam. Granny reveals herself to the pair and threatens to expose their scam to Jed, and the impending wedding will be off. But before she can, they capture her, restrain her, and have her institutionalized at the Los Viejos Nursing Home so she cannot contact Jed.\n\nAt the wedding, Woodrow prepares to transfer all of Clampett's money in Drysdale's bank to a Swiss account on his laptop computer when the couple says \"I do\". Jane realizing Granny is missing, goes to the office of Barnaby Jones (Buddy Ebsen) and after learning where Granny is and who Laura is, poses as a nurse and breaks her out. Granny and Jane arrive at the wedding and foil Laura and Tyler's plan when Jane grabs a shotgun and blows the laptop to bits, before they tried to steal Jed's money. The police arrest Laura and Woodrow while Jed decides that, since the wedding was off, they would have \"one hellacious shindig.\"\n\n\nThe Dolly Parton \"band\" was composed of members of Rhino Bucket (who had a contributing song on the soundtrack of the 1992 Penelope Spheeris hit movie \"Wayne's World\"), the Dwight Yoakam Band (Skip Edwards), and Vern Monnett (Randy Meisner, Texas Tornados and Gary Allan).\n\nParton's appearance reunited her with \"9 to 5\" co-stars Lily Tomlin and Dabney Coleman.\n\nIn its first weekend, \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" grossed $9,525,375 at the box office. The film moved up to number one two weeks later. The total worldwide gross was $57,405,220, making it a moderate box office success.\n\nThe film received negative reviews, with a 22% \"rotten\" rating on Rotten Tomatoes from 32 reviews. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film half a star out of a possible 4, arguing that it did not capture the appeal of the original, and did not improve the source material. Furthermore, wrote Ebert, \"The Beverly Hillbillies\" was a major disappointment for Spheeris after her surprising triumph with \"Wayne's World\" only a year before:\n\nWhen directors make a wonderful movie, you look forward to their next one with a special anticipation, thinking maybe they've got the secret. If it turns out they don't, you feel almost betrayed. That's how I felt after \"The Beverly Hillbillies\", one of the worst movies of this or any year.\nAudiences surveyed by CinemaScore gave the film a grade of \"B+\" on scale of A+ to F.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853924", "title": "Independent Senate Group", "text": "Independent Senate Group\n\nThe Independent Senate Group (, OSF) is a political party in the Dutch Senate with one senator, representing several provincial parties. The OSF differs from other Dutch political parties in that it does not have individual membership, but only grants membership to provincial parties, or municipal local parties that are members of a provincial party. The OSF only contests the elections for the Eerste Kamer and represents regionalist interests. \n\nIn 1995, several provincial parties and The Greens proposed their own independent list for the Senate elections, called the Platform of Independent Groups/Greens (\"Platform van Onafhankelijke Groepen/De Groenen).\" Marten Bierman (a member of The Greens) was elected through preferential vote. In 1999 Bierman was reelected. \n\nIn 2003, Henk ten Hoeve became senator for the OSF. He was a member of the Friesland states-provincial representing the Frisian National Party. He remained senator until 2011. Ten Hoeve was succeeded by Kees de Lange. De Lange was elected on the OSF list, but was a member of the 50PLUS party, with which the OSF had a vote sharing agreement. In 2015 De Lange broke with the OSF due to a disagreement concerning the possible cooperation between the OSF and the People's Party of Limburg of Jos van Rey, a former VVD alderman and representative plagued by corruption scandals. \n\nIn 2015, Henk ten Hoeve became senator of the OSF for a second time. Since 2019 Gerben Gerbrandy, former mayor of Achtkarspelen, has been the senator representing the OSF. \n\nThe OSF consists of the following provincial parties:\n\n"}
{"id": "1853927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853927", "title": "Barreiro, Portugal", "text": "Barreiro, Portugal\n\nBarreiro () is a town and a municipality in Setúbal District in Portugal. The population in 2011 was 78,764, in an area of 36.39 km².\n\nBarreiro has a view of the city of Lisbon from Avenida da Praia and a riverside area called Alburrica.\n\nThe present Mayor is Frederico Rosa, elected by the Socialist Party. The municipal holiday is June 28.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 4 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\n\n\nBarreiro is twinned with:\n\nIn autumn 1975 The New York Times profiled Barreiro as a \"new home for refugees from Angola\".\n"}
{"id": "1853938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853938", "title": "José Javier Hombrados", "text": "José Javier Hombrados\n\nJosé Javier Hombrados (born 7 April 1972) is a Spanish handball player for BM Guadalajara and the Spain national team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853942", "title": "Black Belt Jones", "text": "Black Belt Jones\n\nBlack Belt Jones is a 1974 American blaxploitation martial arts film directed by Robert Clouse and starring Jim Kelly and Gloria Hendry. The film is a spiritual successor to Clouse's prior film \"Enter the Dragon\", in which Kelly had a supporting role. Here, Kelly features in his first starring role as the eponymous character; is a local hero who fights the Mafia and a local drug dealer threatening his friend’s dojo.\n\nThe Mafia have learned of the construction of a new civic center, and have bought up all the land at the intended building site except for a karate dojo owned by Pop Byrd (Scatman Crothers), who refuses to give up his property. The Don contacts an indebted drug dealer named Pinky, who had laundered $250,000 from the Mafia that he'd subsequently loaned to Pop Byrd in-order to get the dojo built. The Don orders Pinky to either get his money back or repossess the property. Black Belt Jones (Jim Kelly), an expert martial artist and hand-for-hire, is contacted by his old friend Pop to help protect the dojo. Though Pinky intends to offer Pop to trade the building in exchange for clearing their mutual debt to the Don, he accidentally kills him during an intimidation attempt. Before he dies, Pop tells Pinky that he couldn't give them the building even if he wanted to, as it belongs not to him but his daughter Sydney. Pinky sends thugs to the dojo to try and intimidate the other employees. Though he was unable to protect his friend, Jones and the other students effortlessly fend off the thugs. \n\nSydney (Gloria Hendry) returns home upon hearing of her father's sudden death. She's told about his debt to the Mafia, but refuses to sell the building, instead seeking vengeance on those responsible for her father's death.. Sydney approaches Pinky’s men and ends up in a brawl, managing to overcome them due to her own martial arts training. As retaliation, Pinky kidnaps one of the students, Quincy (Eric Laneuville) and demands for them to turn over the school or give him the money. Jones and Sydney, with support from the police department, rob the Mafia and proceed to give it to Pinky, framing him for the heist. They rescue Quincy, and Pinky proceeds to send his henchmen after Jones, who has to take them on all at once. Jones and his allies manage to subdue them, and they are subsequently arrested.\n\n\nThe Shaw Brothers, a major Hong Kong movie studio, initiated the U.S. Kung Fu film invasion with 1972's Five Fingers of Death and other films depicting realistic and brutal action.\n\nIn 1973, Cleopatra Jones connected martial arts in Blaxploitation, with a strong Black female lead, skillfully trained in karate.\n\nAs a teenager born in Millersburg, Kentucky and raised in Paris, Kentucky Jim Kelly grew up as an all-around athlete, and had a chance to become a professional football player. He gained his fame in the martial arts community through the 1971 Ed Parkers Internationals. After completing Enter the Dragon, he immediately signed a three film deal with Warner Bros. Black Belt Jones was filmed soon after. Kelly is still arguably most known for his role in Enter the Dragon.\n\nThe film had a mixed reception. Some reviewers critiqued Kelly for trying to be too much like Bruce Lee, and thought the acting was only fair. Yet it still gained a cult film status later on.\n\nFunk guitarist Dennis Coffey is credited for the film’s soundtrack.\n\nThe film was followed by a sequel, \"Hot Potato\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853944", "title": "Carson?", "text": "Carson?\n\nCarson? is an EP-length vinyl record by the Gaelic punk group Oi Polloi. This release is significant as it is the first album of all-original rock songs in Scottish Gaelic, beating the EP CD, Ceàrr, by Mill a h-Uile Rud, to release by one month. Runrig's first album, Play Gaelic, was also all in Gaelic, but several of the tunes were rock re-workings of traditional songs. \"Carson?\" is Scottish Gaelic for \"Why?\", and the title track features an extended excerpt from a BBC radio interview with the Gaelic poet, Sorley MacLean, where the poet discussed the suppression of the Gaelic language.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853947", "title": "Grândola", "text": "Grândola\n\nGrândola () is a town (\"vila\") and municipality in Setúbal District in Portugal. The population in 2011 was 14,826, in an area of 825.94 km².\n\nIncluded in this municipality is Tróia (part of Carvalhal parish), a peninsula between the Atlantic Ocean and the Sado River. Also within the municipality is Serra de Grândola (Grândola Mountain). Nearest city: Alcácer do Sal.\n\nThe municipal holiday is October 22.\n\nGrândola has its own railway station on the main line between Lisbon and Faro. Passenger trains are operated by Comboios de Portugal (CP).\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into four civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853957", "title": "Timo Sarpaneva", "text": "Timo Sarpaneva\n\nTimo Tapani Sarpaneva (31 October 1926 – 6 October 2006) was an influential Finnish designer, sculptor, and educator best known in the art world for innovative work in glass, which often merged attributes of display art objects with utilitarian designations. While glass remained his most commonly addressed medium, he worked with metal, wood, textiles, and porcelain (china). Sarpaneva has entered homes around the world through his industrial design of upscale, artistically conceived items, including cast-iron cookware and porcelain dinnerware. His work was among the key components that helped to launch Finland's reputation as a trailblazer of design.\n\nAs with his grandfather's anvil prominently displayed to introduce visitors to his 2002 retrospective exhibition at the Design Museum in Helsinki, Timo Sarpaneva narrated his family heritage as that of craftsmen. He would mention his maternal grandfather, a blacksmith, whose profession Sarpaneva claimed as his family's tradition \"for hundreds of years,\" and said others were textile artists noting his mother used to make tea cozies. His one-year-older brother Pentti was a graphic designer and made bronze and silver jewelry. With hyperbole, Timo Sarpaneva said he already knew in the womb that he would become a craftsman. His professional response to glass was related to his early memories of molten metal in his grandfather's workshop. A childhood sensation that he would periodically recount later as inspirational for his innovative approach to glass objects spoke of transparency and space: At the age of eight or nine, I held a piece of ice in my hand until I'd made a hole in it with my warm finger.Sarpaneva's organic hole in a glass body then appeared at roughly the same time as Henry Moore began to make use of concavities in his human sculptures, and some of his other work with glass is suggestive of that experience.\n\nSarpaneva graduated from the Institute for Industrial Arts (the forerunner of the University of Arts and Design) in Helsinki in 1948 and received a PhD \"h.c.\" later. Shortly after he began to work with glass, he won the Iittala competition in engraved glass and was hired by the company in 1951 (other sources mention the previous year) as a designer and director of exhibitions. He won his first Grand Prix at the 1954 Milan Triennale for his clear glass series, which also went to his already well-established colleague at Iittala, Tapio Wirkkala. In 1956, Sarpaneva embraced colored glass as he developed Iittala's new upscale \"i-linja\" (i-line) series of plates, bottles, and other objects. Radical for that time, his involvement extended to the design of the packaging and of Iittala's name with a prominent, white, lower-case letter \"i\" in a red circle as the new line's trademark, which the company then adopted as its universal logo through the 21st century. \"i-linja\" won him his second Grand Prix at the 1957 Milan Triennale, where he also received a Grand Prix for his design of the Finnish exhibition.\n\nIn the meantime, he worked on his English at the newly opened Helsinki branch of Berlitz International in the second half of the 1950s, soon began to teach at his \"alma mater\", including a course in linoleum block printing for students of textile design, and became full professor in 1976. Having already worked for the textiles association PMK in the 1950s (and planned an eventually canceled 1957 Triennale garment show for Marimekko in an early recognition that ready-made fashion was beginning to be appreciated as an industrial art), he continued in the 1960s with cloth designs for Tampella and acted as an artistic director for the Swedish textile company Kinnasand between 1964 and 1972, after which he started his association with the German porcelain producer Rosenthal. He commuted between Helsinki and Murano (Venice, Italy) for six years in the 1990s, making mostly sculptures with the Venini glassmakers and the renowned craftsman Pino Signoretto. All along, despite a hiatus in the 1970s when Iittala sought to cancel some of its glass production techniques, Sarpaneva maintained a creative relationship with his first employer for most of his productive life. He was survived by his four adult children and his wife of nine years, Marjatta née Svennevig, whom he married at Helsinki Cathedral in 1997 after 30 years of living together and who designed his tombstone at the Hietaniemi Cemetery, now closed to further burials, the last resting place of numerous people influential in Finnish history, politics, and culture.\nA degree of patriotism translated both to his close acquaintance with Finland's long-serving President Urho Kekkonen, from whom Sarpaneva received the Pro Finlandia Medal of the Order of the Lion of Finland in 1958 for his success at the Milan Triennale, and to the names of some of his internationally marketed production, \"Finlandia\" for a \"bark glass\" vase series and \"Suomi\" (\"Finland\") for a tableware design. He designed glass vases and silver dinnerware for the presidential residence Mäntyniemi opened in 1993. The image of Finland as a trailblazer of design has long been based on its post-World War II success and on the reputation of Sarpaneva and a handful of its other \"designer heroes.\"\n\nThe cast-iron pot (cauldron, casserole) Sarpaneva designed in 1959 (production from 1960), which made it onto a Finnish postal stamp in 1998, became emblematic of his creative approach – modern in a way that did not lean too heavily on novelty, it rethought a traditional piece, put history and humanity back into industrial design, and made \"a damn good reindeer stew in the process.\" Having reintroduced it to market in 2003, the manufacturer, Iittala, considers its timeless and ingenious design to be as functional in the kitchen as it is appealing on the dining table. Work like Sarpaneva's proved that the intrinsic quality of materials reduced to their most basic, sensuous essence, shaped by the creative imagination of an artist, beat all the kitsch in the world.\n\nSarpaneva thought the turning point in his career came for him at the age of 22 when he received the second prize in the Riihimäki Glass Design Contest – second only to his college professor, Arttu Brummer, who won the top award. Sarpaneva worked intermittently with metal, wood, textiles, ceramics, and porcelain (china), while glass remained his main medium from his earliest awards for much of his life, both in industrial design and in display art objects. Trained as a graphic designer, he spent the majority of his life in industrial design while seeing himself more as an artist than a designer. But he discounted the option with a joke when confronted with rumors that Andy Warhol had suggested Sarpaneva's fabrics were masterstrokes ready to be framed as paintings. Nevertheless, Sarpaneva's international career opened up with a comparable feat in textile design when he received a Silver Medal at the 1951 Milan Triennale for his submission \"Kukko\", an embroidered tea cozy styled as a rooster (hence its Finnish name) with the bird's serrated red comb as its handle, mistaken by some at the exhibition for a carnival hat.\n\nIn the 1950s–1960s, Sarpaneva created fabric designs for a number of companies associated in PMK (Puuvillatehtaitten myyntikonttori, \"Cotton Mills' Sales Office\").\n\nHis radical, painterly \"Ambiente\" series designed for a linen division of Tampella in the mid-1960s brought robotization to cloth pattern production. Close to 2,000 automated machine settings, which Sarpaneva called \"industrial monotypes,\" enabled extensive variation in color schemes, from intense crimson and turquoise to subtle pea green, cream, and black. Blurring, merging, and distortion resulted in fluid psychedelic patterns and added another layer to the number of options the modified two-sided rotary printing opened for its manufacturers and marketers.\n\nThe production was based on an invention Sarpaneva made when visiting a manufacturer of packaging paper, where the printing press was malfunctioning so that the colors mixed and bled on the paper. Sarpaneva thought that achieving the same effect intentionally on cloth would create a varying, fluid pattern where exactly the same pattern would never be repeated. Ambiente attracted international attention, provoking Andy Warhol to jokingly suggest to Sarpaneva that he should sell the line as unique pieces of art, adding that \"you would be a millionaire\".\n\nSarpaneva's work in industrial design received its highest recognition with his porcelain (china) full-line dinner service \"Suomi\" (\"Finland\"), on which he worked for four years (some sources say three or two). Commissioned by the German company Rosenthal, which first considered the concept too simple, it was launched in its \"studio-line\" in 1976. The originally all-white modern classic with gently rounded corners was made part of the permanent collection of the Centre Georges Pompidou in Paris as an example of contemporary design and has remained in production through the 2010s. Sarpaneva said his inspiration came from the forms of rocks rounded and polished by moving water. It combined the circle with the square, a merger of the organic forms of the craft tradition and the straight lines associated with modern industry. The pieces of the chip-resistant service appealed to the hand as well as the eye. Big, comfortable handles made the cups sturdy and easy to hold, rims on the plates prevented spills, tea and coffee pots poured without dripping.\n\nStill in the 1970s, Rosenthal made \"Suomi\" the canvass for high-art surface designs limited to 500-set runs by artists renowned at the time, including Salvador Dalí and Victor Vasarely. The company also adjusted \"Suomi\" for customers looking to inject self-expression. It manufactured \"Suomi\" in a parallel \"Porcelaine noire\" series and allowed customers to mix and purchase the luminous white and uncommon black-porcelain pieces in any desired contrastive combination. In a separate modification, the producer catered to those seeking more opulence with gold- and platinum-trimmed \"Suomi\" series. Such marketing was not always appreciated on aesthetic grounds with the argument that the decorated versions of various sorts related poorly to Sarpaneva's refined shapes, and that \"Suomi\" was extraordinary only in plain white.\n\nOn the occasion of launching his \"Sun in the Forest\" cup-and-saucer set in London, Sarpaneva said his forms were sometimes inspired by sound.When I go very deep into the forest, all of my senses are alerted. That is when I can hear with my eyes.Direct references to sound translated to images also accompanied the promo material with his mug-and-saucer combo \"Song of the Troll\".\n\nSarpaneva was a proliferous designer of glass art, both sculpture and functional objects. He pioneered many new methods in glass making, together with the glassblowers of Iittala glassworks. Among the new methods developed was the wet-stick method where spherical spaces within glass are created not by blowing, but by protruding a wet stick into the glass mass. The contact with the hot mass causes the water to evaporate whereupon the vapor blows a cavity into the glass. The glassmakers of Iittala developed a habit of picking up, on their way to work, fallen branches of apple trees, a type of wood particularly well-suited for the purpose. This method is central to many of Sarpaneva's glass art series, such as Kajakki and Orchid.\n\nSarpaneva's first international recognition in glass work came with a Grand Prix from the Milan Triennale in 1954 that included Sarpaneva's series \"Orkidea\" (\"Orchid\"), \"Kajakki\" (\"Kayak\"), and \"Lansetti\" (\"Lancet\") adopted for production by Iittala. He said of his favorite material:Glass is very mysterious. It's changing all the time. That's what makes it magical. It released me from the conventional and the three-dimensional. It opened its deepest reaches to me and took me on a journey to a fourth dimension. I understood the opportunities that clear, transparent glass gives to an artist and designer. The amoeboid abstraction \"Lancet II\" of the latter series, an asymmetrical clear-glass vase whose shape is only partly echoed by its hollow center, was selected by the U.S. magazine \"House Beautiful\" as \"The Most Beautiful Design Object of the Year\" 1954. At his hands distinctions between pure and applied art gradually became less and less meaningful – the glass vases he created in the 1950s exhibited clear sculptural qualities long before he decided to sever his connection with the vessel as a form in 1964 and to make pure sculpture in glass.\n\nThe \"Finlandia\" line of \"bark glass\" vases produced by Iittala in 1964-1970 brought about another innovation, mass-produced household objects each of which was, in a way, exclusive. The collection was distinguished by the presence of thick glass with a rough surface that brought to mind snow and ice, replacing in one blow the smooth, thin, streamlined colored glass of the 1950s. Sarpaneva recalled:I found a heap of discarded wooden molds used for making polished glass and decided to make a different kind of glass with them. Each piece was slightly different in its shape and surface.Glass was poured or blown into the molds and allowed to remain long enough for the molds to burn, thereby roughening the surfaces. Each time the mold was blown into, the grain texture changed causing each object in the \"Finlandia\" series to be unique although mold-blown. The molds were gradually, and intentionally, destroyed through repeated contact with glass heated to 500 °C (932 F). The changing surface gave each piece a natural randomized \"bark\" effect created by the carbonized wood, which could not otherwise be convincingly created by an artist.\n\nSarpaneva made his and Finland's largest glass sculpture, \"Ahtojää\" (\"Pack Ice,\" renamed from \"Jäävuori\", \"Iceberg\"), for the Finnish pavilion at Expo 67 in Montreal in 1967. It was then bought by the City of Tampere and remained in storage until 1988 when it was installed in the entrance lobby of the KoskiKeskus shopping mall opened in downtown Tampere in March of that year. The 12 m (36 ft.) long and 6.4 m (21 ft.) wide triangle is suspended from the ceiling and filled with 488, up to 1 m (3.3 ft.) high, faceted and noduled glass turrets. Sarpaneva expanded his original concept by attaching \"Meren peili\" (\"Mirror of the Sea\") below \"Ahtojää\", mirror panes interpreting the surface of the sea (the Baltic Sea is partly covered with ice around Finland in the winter, but ice-free in the summer), in order to reminisce on fluidity and the cycle of life, which also subsumed a Finnish take on the two manifestations of the country's denotative multitude of lakes – white ice in the winter and a blue mirror in the summer. Nordic art specialists often compared Sarpaneva's ability to capture light along with its hues to looking through ice beneath the sea.\n\nGlass was also the material of his rare work that addressed trans-Atlantic cultural influences. The small, black blown-glass piece \"Smile\" with a glossy finish features two large Disneyesque ears rising above a mouth and refers to Mickey Mouse. The ears signify Mickey's state of being, while the sculpture transforms Mickey into a set of abstract geometric relationships.\n\n\n\nSarpaneva's artistically conceived design lines gained in resale value to the degree that forgeries became profitable. The Finnish police estimated the total value of the forgeries of his and some of his peers' designs reached millions of euros and expected it to grow. Occasional, partly tongue-in-cheek, criticism of some of the designs – that the versatile teak handle with the cast-iron pot would get lost, that white \"Suomi\" showed tea stains unlike classic British brown tea pots – did not undermine their appreciation. Historically, Christie's executives commented on growth in resale value especially with Sarpaneva's glass creations for the Italian Venini company. Older objects from the same series would be more valuable, for instance, an item from the first year of the \"Kajakki\" (Kayak) series, which ran from 1953 to 1959, might fetch 50% more than the same object from the last year of production. Bargain hunters occasionally reported high returns, including the purchase of a Sarpaneva glass plate for 25 cents in a garage sale, which turned out to have a resale value of US$1,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853958", "title": "Moita", "text": "Moita\n\nMoita () is a municipality in the district of Setúbal in Portugal. The population in 2011 was 66,029, in an area of 55.26 km².\n\nThe municipality is part of the Greater Lisbon Area, with a demographic rate of 1.194,9/km2 in 2011, growing from 533,2/km2 in 1960. As part of Lisbon's suburban area, the population is mostly working age and senior individuals. The aging indicator (1 senior per 100 youngsters) is 106,9.\n\nThe present Mayor is Rui Garcia, elected by the Democratic Unity Coalition. The municipal holiday is the 1st Tuesday after the 2nd Sunday of September.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 4 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\n"}
{"id": "1853963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853963", "title": "Pamplemousses District", "text": "Pamplemousses District\n\nPamplemousses () is a district of Mauritius, located in the north west of the island, and is one of the most densely populated parts of the island. The name of the district comes from the French word for grapefruits. The district has an area of 178.7 km and the population estimate was at 139,966 as of 31 December 2015.\n\nThe district hosts the SSR botanical garden, or Jardin Botanique Sir Seewoosagur Ramgoolam, renamed in 1988 in honor of the first prime minister of Mauritius. The garden was first constructed by Pierre Poivre (1719–1786) in 1770. The area is 25 hectares. The garden features spices, ebonies, sugar canes and many more. It also features lotuses as well as 85 varieties of palms from Central America, Asia, Africa and the islands around the Indian Ocean. The district is the home of the Pamplemousses SC local football team.\n\nThe Pamplemousses District include different regions; however, some regions are further divided into different suburbs.\n\n"}
{"id": "1853968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853968", "title": "Let the Music Do the Talking", "text": "Let the Music Do the Talking\n\nLet the Music Do the Talking is the first of four albums by The Joe Perry Project, released in 1980. It was the band's most successful, selling approximately 250,000 copies in the United States. The title track was re-recorded by Joe Perry's more successful band Aerosmith on its album \"Done With Mirrors\", albeit with a slightly different melody and Steven Tyler-penned lyrics.\n\nFed up with the slow pace of the recording of \"Night in the Ruts\" and frustrated with the band's precarious financial situation, Perry left Aerosmith in the spring of 1979. He recruited Aerosmith's former producer Jack Douglas and shared vocal duties with Ralph Morman, who Perry had previously heard in a band called Daddy Warbux. The group was rounded out by bassist David Hull and drummer Ronnie Stewart. \"The contrast between the tortuous ordeal of recording Aerosmith and the seamless groove that characterized the Project was remarkable,\" Perry later recalled.”\n\nConsidering Aerosmith’s struggles, Columbia Records was initially hesitant to give Perry a solo deal, but he assured them he could turn in an album in \"five or six weeks.\" In his 2014 autobiography \"Rocks\", the guitarist states that the songs were largely autobiographical:\n\n\"Let the Music Do the Talking\" received generally favorable reviews from critics. Greg Prato of AllMusic wrote that \"maybe because he wanted to show his former band mates that he could succeed without them, the performances were extremely inspired, while the songwriting was sharp and focused... A truly great and underrated record, \"Let the Music Do the Talking\" could have been a classic Aerosmith release if the drugs hadn't split the band apart.\" Canadian journalist Martin Popoff remarked how in comparison with Aerosmth albums \"Let the Music Do the Talking\" has \"a greater emphasis on both control and funkiness, yet still exuding tons of warmth and larger-than-life riffery\", and praised Perry for his \"eccentric, concentric interpretations of the blues.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853972", "title": "Merca", "text": "Merca\n\nMerca (, ) is an ancient port city in the southern Lower Shebelle province of Somalia. It is located approximately to the southeast of the nation's capital Mogadishu. \n\nThe first Somalis arrived in the city in the 6th century and gained control of the city and trade of the region. \n\nThe 13th-century Arab geographer Ibn Sa'id described Merca as the \"capital of ajuran sultanate\". During the 12th century, the cartographer Muhammad al-Idrisi may have referred to the as well, as he called Merca the region of the \"Hadiye\", which Herbert S. Lewis believes is a scribal error for \"Hawiye\", as do Guilliani, Schleicher and Cerulli.\n\nIn the 1930s, a group of Italian Somalis established residency in Merca. The Port of Merca was the second in Italian Somalia and was nicknamed the \"port of bananas\" due to its status as a key exporter of bananas from Somalia to Europe. In the city of Merca there was a huge economical development in the 1930s, due mainly to the growing commerce of the port of Merca connected by small railway to the farm area of Genale. On New Years Day 1993, United States Army troops occupied Marka as part of Operation Restore Hope, and remained for several months. \n\nMerca was abandoned by government forces and captured by Al-Shabaab in February 2016. It was recaptured by the Somali National Army along with African Union troops, a few days later. A small battle was fought in which a Somali soldier, several militants, and four civilians died.\n\nAccording to the UNDP in 2005 Merca had a population of around 230,100 inhabitants. The Biimal clan is among the majority in Merca.\n\nMerca has a jetty-class seaport, the Port of Merca.\n\nThe nearest airport to the city is the K50 Airport in the Lower Shebelle province.\n\nAsha Jama, social activist, and former TV reporter and journalist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853975", "title": "Javier Marías", "text": "Javier Marías\n\nJavier Marías (born 20 September 1951) is a Spanish novelist, translator, and columnist. He is one of Spain's most celebrated novelists, and his work has been translated into 42 languages.\n\nJavier Marías was born in Madrid. His father was the philosopher Julián Marías, who was briefly imprisoned and then banned from teaching for opposing Franco (the father of the protagonist of \"Your Face Tomorrow\" was given a similar biography). Marías is the fourth of five sons and spent parts of his childhood in the United States, where his father taught at various institutions, including Yale University and Wellesley College. His mother died when Javier was 26 years old. His first literary employment consisted in translating \"Dracula\" scripts for his maternal uncle, Jesús Franco. He was educated at the \"Colegio Estudio\" in Madrid.\n\nMarías began writing in earnest at an early age. \"The Life and Death of Marcelino Iturriaga\", one of the short stories in \"While the Women are Sleeping\" (2010), was written when he was just 14. He wrote his first novel, \"Los dominios del lobo\" (\"The Dominions of the Wolf\"), at the age of 17, after running away to Paris. His second novel, \"Travesía del horizonte\" (\"Voyage Along the Horizon\"), was an adventure story about an expedition to Antarctica.\n\nAfter attending the Complutense University of Madrid, Marías turned his attention to translating English novels into Spanish. His translations included work by Updike, Hardy, Conrad, Nabokov, Faulkner, Kipling, James, Stevenson, Browne, and Shakespeare. In 1979 he won the Spanish national award for translation for his version of Sterne's \"Tristram Shandy\". Between 1983 and 1985 he lectured in Spanish literature and translation at the University of Oxford.\n\nIn 1986 Marías published \"El hombre sentimental\" (\"The Man of Feeling\"), and in 1988 he published \"Todas las almas\" (\"All Souls\"), which was set at Oxford University. The Spanish film director Gracia Querejeta released \"El Último viaje de Robert Rylands\", adapted from \"Todas las almas\", in 1996.\nHis 1992 novel \"Corazón tan blanco\" was a commercial and critical success and for its English version \"A Heart So White\", translated by Margaret Jull Costa, Marías and Costa were joint winners of the 1997 International Dublin Literary Award. His 1994 novel, \"Mañana en la batalla piensa en mí\", won the Venezuelan Rómulo Gallegos Prize.\n\nThe protagonists of the novels written since 1986 are all interpreters or translators of one kind or another, based on his own experience as a translator and teacher of translation at Oxford University. Of these protagonists, Marías has written, \"They are people who are renouncing their own voices.\"\n\nIn 2002 Marías published \"Tu rostro mañana 1. Fiebre y lanza\" (\"Your Face Tomorrow 1: Fever and Spear\"), the first part of a trilogy that is his most ambitious literary project. The first volume is dominated by a translator, an elderly don based on an actual professor emeritus of Spanish studies at Oxford University, Sir Peter Russell. The second volume, \"Tu rostro mañana 2. Baile y sueño\" (\"Your Face Tomorrow 2: Dance and Dream\"), was published in 2004. In 2007, Marías completed the final installment, \"Tu rostro mañana 3. Veneno y sombra y adiós\" (\"Your Face Tomorrow 3: Poison, Shadow and Farewell\").\n\nMarías operates a small publishing house under the name of \"Reino de Redonda\". He also writes a weekly column in \"El País\". In 2005-06 an English version of his column, \"La Zona Fantasma\", appeared in the monthly magazine \"The Believer\".\n\nMarías was elected to Seat \"R\" of the Real Academia Española on 29 June 2006. He took up his seat on 27 April 2008. At his investiture he agreed with Robert Louis Stevenson that the work of novelists is \"pretty childish,\" but also argued that it is impossible to narrate real events, and that “you can only fully tell stories about what has never happened, the invented and imagined.”\n\nIn 2013, Marías was awarded the prestigious Prix Formentor.\n\nMarías's novel, \"Todas las almas\" (\"All Souls\"), included a portrayal of the poet John Gawsworth, who was also the third King of Redonda. Although the fate of this monarchy after the death of Gawsworth is contested, the portrayal by Marías so affected the \"reigning\" king, Jon Wynne-Tyson, that he abdicated and left the throne to Marías in 1997. This course of events was chronicled in his \"false novel,\" \"Negra espalda del tiempo\" (\"Dark Back of Time\"). The book was inspired by the reception of \"Todas las almas\" by many people who, falsely according to Marías, believed they were the source of the characters in \"Todas las almas\". Since \"taking the throne\" of Redonda, Marías has begun a publishing imprint named \"Reino de Redonda\" (\"Kingdom of Redonda\").\n\nMarías has conferred many titles during his reign upon people he likes, including upon Pedro Almodóvar (Duke of Trémula), António Lobo Antunes (Duke of Cocodrilos), John Ashbery (Duke of Convexo), Pierre Bourdieu (Duke of Desarraigo), William Boyd (Duke of Brazzaville), (Duke of Miranda), A. S. Byatt (Duchess of Morpho Eugenia), Guillermo Cabrera Infante (Duke of Tigres), Pietro Citati (Duke of Remonstranza), Francis Ford Coppola (Duke of Megalópolis), Agustín Díaz Yanes (Duke of Michelín), Roger Dobson (Duke of Bridaespuela), Frank Gehry (Duke of Nervión), Francis Haskell (Duke of Sommariva), Eduardo Mendoza (Duke of Isla Larga), Ian Michael (Duke of Bernal), Orhan Pamuk (Duke of Colores), Arturo Pérez-Reverte (Duke of Corso), Francisco Rico (Duke of Parezzo), Sir Peter Russell (Duke of Plazatoro), Fernando Savater (Duke of Caronte), W. G. Sebald (Duke of Vértigo), Jonathan Coe (Duke of Prunes), Luis Antonio de Villena (Duke of Malmundo), and Juan Villoro (Duke of Nochevieja).\n\nIn addition, Marías created a literary prize, to be judged by the dukes and duchesses. In addition to prize money, the winner receives a duchy.\nWinners: 2001 – John Maxwell Coetzee (Duke of Deshonra); 2002 – John H. Elliott (Duke of Simancas); 2003 – Claudio Magris (Duke of Segunda Mano); 2004 – Eric Rohmer (Duke of Olalla); 2005 – Alice Munro (Duchess of Ontario); 2006 – Ray Bradbury (Duke of Diente de León); 2007 – George Steiner (Duke of Girona); 2008 – Umberto Eco (Duke of la Isla del Día de Antes); 2009 – Marc Fumaroli (Duke of Houyhnhnms).\n\n\n\nAll English translations by Margaret Jull Costa and published in the United States by New Directions unless otherwise indicated:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853980", "title": "Autonomous University of Madrid", "text": "Autonomous University of Madrid\n\nThe Autonomous University of Madrid (; UAM) is a Spanish public university located in Madrid, Spain. The campus of the university spans a rural tract of 650 acres, mostly around metropolitan Madrid. Founded in 1968, its main campus, Cantoblanco, is located near the cities of Alcobendas, San Sebastián de los Reyes and Tres Cantos. UAM's Cantoblanco Campus holds most of the university's facilities. It is located 15 km north of Madrid and has an extension of over 2,200,000 m². Of these are nearly 770,000 urbanised and about a third of them garden areas. UAM offers 94 PhD programs in all of the universities programs. It also offers 72 unrecognized master's degrees.\n\nThe Stabilization Plan of 1959 and the Development Plans of the 1960s boosted the Spanish economy after years of austerity and the self-sufficiency-based economy. The end of diplomatic and economic isolation led to an economic boom in Spain that resulted in the consolidation of a middle class similar to that of other Western European nations. As a result, the demand of higher education increased, and the Spanish university system grew increasingly congested. The Francoist government had to respond to this by either creating new universities or expanding the reach of the existing ones.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Madrid was established by the 5/1968 Decree () approved by the Spanish Council of Ministers during the Francoist dictatorship along with the Autonomous University of Barcelona and the University of Bilbao. This Decree was sponsored by the then-Minister of Science and Education, José Luis Villar Palasí, in order to restructure the Spanish university system. The name \"Universidad Autónoma de Madrid\" first appeared in an executive order by the Ministry which was published on 13 August 1968.\n\nOn June 8, 2018 the Autonomous University of Madrid celebrated its 50th Anniversary with a series of commemorative events, starting with a debate on university autonomy (after the scandal of the former president of the Community of Madrid, Cristina Cifuentes and her Master degree in the University Juan Carlos I). In the debate, called \"Past, present and future (1968–2018)\", the rector of the UAM Rafael Garesse, and the rectors of the Autonomous University of Barcelona, Margarita Arboix, and the Basque Country, Nekane Balluerka participated.\n\nUAM's Cantoblanco Campus holds most of the university's facilities. It is located 15 km north of Madrid and has an extension of over 2,200,000 m². Of these are nearly 770,000 urbanised and about a third of them garden areas. The campus was designed as a university town that was to be self-sufficient, but also would be away from Madrid in order to keep student activity against the Francoist dictatorship away from the capital.\n\nInitially, the campus held the faculties of Philosophy and Liberal Arts, law, economics, business management, and science, as well as the rectorate, several other service buildings and sports facilities. The university's other facilities, the faculty of medicine and the teacher training school \"Santa Maria\" are in downtown Madrid. There are two other teacher training schools in Segovia and in Cuenca. Over the years, the faculty of psychology, the biology building of the faculty of sciences, the new faculty of law (that allowed the transfer of the teacher training school to the main campus, and that was later transformed in faculty of education and teacher training) along with its political science annex building, the polytechnic school (initially superior technical school of computing engineers), the libraries of humanities and sciences, as well as the Erasmus of Rotterdam dormitory have been built on the main campus.\n\nThe original faculties were housed in interconnected buildings with several patios in between them. Characteristic of each building is a large number of stairs in its corridors, initially designed to prevent students from running in case of police raids. Currently, this fact has been considered by many university officials as a setback in the integration of handicapped students. The newest facilities were built in a contemporary style, being more accessible and allowing more free movement to students. Sporting facilities include two swimming pools (an indoor one and an outdoor one), two multiple-use pavilions, and outdoor tennis, football, basketball, paddle tennis, rugby, and futsal and beach volleyball courts.\n\nOther services on campus include 16 cafeterias and other eating facilities, medical services, a pharmacy with optic care, a foreign languages pavilion, and a bookstore. The campus also houses several research facilities partnered with the Spanish Scientific Research Council (CSIC). Cantoblanco Campus is accessible by train belonging to Renfe Cercanias Commuter service (station Cantoblanco-Universidad), or by the Madrid Region Commuter Bus service. The campus is located in the B1 area of the Madrid Transports Consortium.\n\nUAM faculty of medicine is located north of Madrid near La Paz teaching hospital (that acts as one of the faculty's teaching hospitals, as Puerta de Hierro Majadahonda Hospital, La Princesa Hospital, Niño Jesús Hospital and Fundación Jiménez Díaz do). It was inaugurated in 1969. Juan Luis Vives Residence Hall was UAM's first residential facility. It is located in the Plaza Castilla area in northern Madrid. It has 130 residents and holds several cultural activities of the university.\n\nLa Cristalera residence is located in Miraflores de la Sierra, a village north of Madrid that was acquired by the university in 1989. It is used for conferences and meetings and is the main centre of UAM's summer courses.\n\nThe UAM is divided into eight faculties and superior schools that support and coordinate most of the university's academic and administrative activity. Each faculty is divided into departments that coordinate the teaching and research of the different subjects. Researchers can organise into research institutes in order to coordinate their activities in a specific research field. The university totals up to 59 departments and eight research institutes. In addition to these, the UAM has seven associate schools, which are not completely part of UAM's administrative structure, but issue UAM-recognised titles and are under UAM's academic regulations.\n\nFaculties and superior schools:\n\nAssociate schools are:\n\nUAM administration is established according to the 2001's Organic Law of Universities (LOU). The Senior Academic and Administrative Officer of the Autonomous University of Madrid is the rector, who must be, by law, a chair professor serving in the university, elected every four years with a two-term limit by universal graded suffrage. The current rector is José Maria Sanz, chair of applied physics, who substituted his predecessor Angel Gabilondo in 2009, when Gabilondo became Minister of Education. To aid the rector in the management of the university, he or she appoints an indefinite number of vice-rectors leading different administrative departments of the university (such as Student affairs or Graduate academic affairs), and a secretary general coordinating the rector's team and overseeing the legal procedures of the university, as well as university protocol. The rector, in accordance with the university's social board, also designates the manager as part of his team, which oversees the university's economic and administrative activity.\n\nThe grades assigned to each sector for rectoral elections in UAM according to its charter are:\n\nUAM's collective government bodies are the University Assembly, The Board of Governors, and The Social Board.\n\nThe University Assembly is made out of 153 full professors, 84 students, 27 hired, associate, or emeritus professors, 27 members of the non-teaching personnel, 9 research or teaching trainees, the rector, the secretary general, and the manager. It is the highest representative body of the university. It elaborates the university's general guidelines, changes or passes a new university charter, elects twenty members of the Board of Governors, and elects the University Ombudsman.\n\nThe Board Of Governors is the ordinary governmental body of the university. It controls and passes regulations on most of the university's academic, personnel, and administrative issues. It is composed of the rector, the secretary general, the manager, 20 members elected by the assembly according to its composition, all the deans and the head of the polytechnic school, 7 heads of department, a head of research institute, 15 members designated by the rector and three members of the Social Board.\n\nThe Social Board is the body responsible for the relations between university and society. Its members are designated by trade unions, the municipality of Madrid, employers unions, companies related to the university, the Madrid Assembly and the Board of Governors of the university. It also oversees the universities financial activities and passes the university budget. Its current chairman is Manuel Pizarro.\n\nFaculties are headed by a dean, whilst the responsible of the polytechnic school is called head. They are elected in the same way as the rector and have also a limit of two four-year terms. They are aided by vice-deans or deputy heads. They are overseen by a faculty or school board. Departments are led by the head of department and overseen by the department council.\n\n\nUAM offers Spanish undergraduates fully recognized degrees. There are the \"Diplomatura\" and \"Ingenierías Técnicas\" (technical engineering), which are three year studies equivalent to an associate degree. \"Licenciaturas\" and \"Ingenierías Superiores\" are four to five years studies equivalent to a bachelor's degree. Along with that, UAM offers second level \"licenciaturas\", which allow people who have a diplomatura to obtain a \"licenciatura\" by taking courses. In other case, they must have at least the first two or three years of a \"licenciatura\" and combined degree, which are very popular among Spanish students. They also offer courses in languages other than Spanish.\n\nIn addition to the Faculties where the degrees on the different fields of knowledge and science are studied —Faculty of Science, F. of Business and Economic Science, F. of Law, F. of Philosophy and the Arts, F. of Teacher Training and Education, F. of Psychology, F. of Medicine and School of Engineering— there are external centers that teach specific studies and their associated degree: “La Salle” Centre of Higher Education, The Red Cross School of Nursing, The Jimenez Diaz Foundation University School of Nursing, The ONCE University School of Physioterapy.\n\nUAM offers 94 PhD programs in all of the universities programs. It also offers 72 unrecognised master's degrees, and with the implementation of the Bologna Process 16 recognised master's degrees for the academic year of 2006/2007.\n\nIn addition, the alliance of the four leading Spanish public Universities, two in Madrid (Autónoma University of Madrid and Universidad Carlos III) and two in Barcelona (Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Universitat Pompeu Fabra) allows close collaboration between projects and researchers.\n\nThroughout its history, the UAM has been one of Spain's most prominent higher education institutions, being ranked first amongst Spanish universities by the El Mundo University Supplement (known as \"Las 50 Carreras\"), by The Times Higher Education Supplement, and by the Academic Ranking of World Universities yearly published by Shanghai Jiao Tong University. In the rankings on education, the UAM has positioned itself as one of the best young universities in the world (it is the Spanish university best placed in the 2018 edition of the QS Top 50 Under 50 Ranking, and the third best positioned in Europe), with an outstanding international projection in the field of research. For the subject \"Mathematics\" the university was ranked within top 51-75 universities in the world (within top 12 in Europe). In the \"Times Higher Education 100 Under 50 University Rankings\", the University achieved 49th position globally in 2012. In another similar ranking \"QS Top 50 Under 50\" by Quacquarelli Symonds (QS), the Autonomous University of Madrid recently achieved 9th place in international comparison. Its Faculty of Law is the most prestigious one in Spain. It is the Spanish university with the most researchers among the most cited according to the Thomson Reuters ranking citation in 2011.\n\nThe Autonomous University of Madrid has an active student body, having organised one of Spain's most important events against the dictatorship in 1976 called the Iberian Peoples Festival. It had an attendance of over 70,000. UAM has over a hundred student societies covering activities ranging from student unionism to theatre and music. The oldest active association in UAM is the Law Students Association (AED in Spanish), a left-leaning student union established in 1981. Furthermore, there are new prominent societies in the field of social sciences, such a Debate Society (Sociedad de Debates UAM) and a Model UN society (UAM-I-MUN), both founded and run mainly by law students.\n\nUAM does not have a formal student government body, as it has been rejected by students in several occasions, and instead students elect different student unions (usually with difference on political issues) to the different university government bodies.\n\nIn recent years, UAM students have organised massively to protest against terrorism, after the assassination of Francisco Tomas y Valiente by ETA in 1995, against the Organic Law of Universities in 2001, to clean Spain's northern coast after the Prestige oil spill in 2002, against the War in Iraq in 2003, to assist to the II European Social Forum also in 2003, and in solidarity with the victims of the 11 March 2004 Madrid train bombings.\n\nUAM is also a festive campus, holding several festivals during spring. The most important one was the Spring festival held until 1993, but halted due to massification. Since then minor festivals have been held by student associations. These festivals usually consist of rock concerts by amateur rock bands (many of which have members that are UAM) from midday until dusk. According to university regulations, festival profits have to be destined to charities or to the organisation of cultural events. In 2005, due to massification of the festivals that led to several problems, university officials suspended further festivals until a more convenient place for their celebration would be found. Thus, no festivals were held in 2006.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853981", "title": "1980 in art", "text": "1980 in art\n\nThe year 1980 in art involved some significant events and new works.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853987", "title": "House Island (Maine)", "text": "House Island (Maine)\n\nHouse Island is a private island in Portland Harbor in Casco Bay, Maine, United States. It is part of the City of Portland. The island is only accessible by boat. Public access is prohibited, except for an on request tour sanctioned by the island's owners. House Island includes three buildings on the east side and Fort Scammell on the west side. The buildings are used as summer residences. The island's name derives from the site of an early European house, believed that built by Capt. Christopher Levett, an English explorer of the region.\n\nOn June 21, 2012, the Wall Street Journal reported the island for sale for $4.9m.\n\nHenry A. S. Dearborn, an officer of the Massachusetts Militia and a future general, built Fort Scammell on the island in 1808 as part of the national second system of fortifications. It was named after Alexander Scammell, Adjutant-General of the Continental Army during the American Revolutionary War, who was killed in action during the Battle of Yorktown. (The middle names of the fort's builder were also chosen after Scammell, a friend of the builder's father, Secretary of War Henry Dearborn.) The fort was designed for harbor defense, with cannon batteries designed to protect the main shipping channel into Portland harbor, along with Fort Preble. The spelling of the fort's name varies among references. The fort was made of stone, brick, and earth, and initially mounted fifteen guns and a 10-inch mortar. The Secretary of War's report on fortifications for 1811 describes Fort Scammell as \"a circular battery of masonry with circular flanks, mounting fifteen heavy guns, is covered in the rear with a wooden blockhouse, mounting six guns...\". Typical weapons of the period were 24-pounder or 32-pounder smoothbore cannon.\n\nIn the 1840s–1850s, as part of the national third system of fortifications, Fort Scammell was modernized by extending its walls to enclose a larger area. Thomas Lincoln Casey, an Army engineer officer known for his work on the Washington Monument, completely rebuilt the fort beginning in 1862 during the American Civil War. As rebuilt to the new Third System design Fort Scammell was unique in the US, with the design centered on two three-tier stone-and-brick bastions connected by earth walls rather than stone curtain walls. A third bastion was never completed. To allow timely completion, the remaining bastions had a tier or two each removed from the design. As completed, the west bastion had a single tier of casemates and the east bastion had two tiers. In the 1870s additional earthworks to accommodate 10-inch and 15-inch Rodman guns were constructed, but only some of these were completed due to a national freeze on fort construction in the late 1870s. Fort Scammell was not re-armed in the Spanish–American War of 1898, and was listed as disarmed in a 1903 report.\n\nTwo emplacements for anti-aircraft guns were added in 1917, probably for the 3-inch gun M1917. Of all the forts in Casco Bay, Fort Scammell was the only fort to fire a shot and be fired upon in battle, in early August 1813. \n\nThe island was later the site of an immigration quarantine station from 1907 to 1937, and was considered the 'Ellis Island of the North'. The quarantine station was busiest in the early 1920s, after the adoption of the Emergency Quota Act, which restricted the number of immigrants who could enter the country. In November 1923, the ships \"President Polk\" and \"George Washington\" were diverted from New York City to Portland, and 218 immigrants from those ships were quarantined at the station.\n\nThe island was considered \"ideal\" by immigration officials. A Grand Trunk Railway station was located at the docks in Portland, allowing easy rail access for immigrants arriving in Portland. Additionally, William Husband, Commissioner General of United States Immigration, said the whole island was secure and \"The whole of House Island was available in that case, instead of those detained being obliged to go out under guard with only few patches of green grass upon which they might set foot, as at some other places.\"\n\nThe 1920 brick detention barracks have been demolished, but the original 1907 buildings remain, including the doctor's house, the detention barracks, and the quarantine hospital.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1853994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853994", "title": "Zdzisław Jan Zamoyski", "text": "Zdzisław Jan Zamoyski\n\nZdzisław Jan Zamoyski (c. 1591–1670) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic). He became Podstoli of Lwów in 1646 and castellan of Czerniechów in 1656.\n\nHe married Anna Zofia Lanckorońska and had five children: Marianna Zamoyska, Mikołaj Zamoyski, Eufrozyna Zamoyska, Marcin Zamoyski and Jan Kazimierz Zamoyski.\n"}
{"id": "1853999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1853999", "title": "Five Women Wearing the Same Dress", "text": "Five Women Wearing the Same Dress\n\nFive Women Wearing the Same Dress is a play written in 1993 by Alan Ball.\n\nThe play is a comedy set at the home of the bride in Knoxville, Tennessee during the newly married couple's ostentatious wedding reception. The five bridesmaids have found refuge in the room of Meredith, the sister of the bride. The women come to realize that despite their differences, they have more in common with each other than any of them do with the bride.\n\n\nBall, Alan. \"Five Women Wearing the Same Dress\". New York: Dramatists Play Service, 1993. Print.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854000", "title": "The Bourne Ultimatum (film)", "text": "The Bourne Ultimatum (film)\n\nThe Bourne Ultimatum is a 2007 American action-thriller film directed by Paul Greengrass loosely based on the novel of the same name by Robert Ludlum. The screenplay was written by Tony Gilroy, Scott Z. Burns and George Nolfi and based on a screen story of the novel by Gilroy. \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" is the third installment in the \"Jason Bourne\" film series, being preceded by \"The Bourne Identity\" (2002) and \"The Bourne Supremacy\" (2004). The fourth film, \"The Bourne Legacy\", was released in August 2012, without the involvement of Damon, and the fifth film (a direct sequel to \"Ultimatum\"), \"Jason Bourne\", was released in July 2016.\n\nMatt Damon reprises his role as Ludlum's signature character, former CIA assassin and psychogenic amnesiac Jason Bourne. In the film, Bourne continues his search for information about his past before he was part of Operation Treadstone and becomes a target of a similar assassin program.\n\n\"The Bourne Ultimatum\" was produced by Universal Pictures and was released on August 3, 2007, and grossed a total of $442 million worldwide becoming, at the time, Damon's highest-grossing film with him as the lead. The film received acclaim from critics, who considered it to be the best film in the series, and praised the performances, action sequences, sound design, story, stunts, camerawork and John Powell's musical score. It was chosen by National Board of Review as one of the top ten films of 2007 and went on to win all three of its nominations at the 80th Academy Awards: Best Film Editing, Best Sound Mixing and Best Sound Editing.\n\nFollowing his pursuit by Kirill, Jason Bourne eludes Moscow police while wounded through a train station and deals with more flashbacks of when he first joined Operation Treadstone.\n\nSix weeks later, CIA Deputy Director Pamela Landy divulges the audiotaped confession of Ward Abbott, the late former head of Treadstone, to Director Ezra Kramer. Meanwhile, in Turin, journalist Simon Ross of \"The Guardian\" meets an informant to learn about Bourne and Operation Blackbriar, the program succeeding Treadstone. The CIA tracks Ross as he returns to London, after his mention of \"Blackbriar\" during a cell phone call to his editor is detected by the ECHELON system. Bourne reappears in Paris to inform Martin Kreutz, the brother of his girlfriend Marie Helena Kreutz, of her assassination in India, also in the previous film.\n\nBourne reads Ross's articles and arranges a meeting with him at London Waterloo station. Bourne realizes that the CIA is following Ross and helps him evade capture for a while, but when he panics and ignores Bourne's instructions, Ross is shot and killed by Blackbriar assassin Paz on orders of Deputy Director Noah Vosen. Vosen's team, reluctantly assisted by Landy, analyzes Ross's notes and identifies his source as Neal Daniels, a CIA station chief involved with Treadstone and Blackbriar. Bourne makes his way to Daniels' office in Madrid but finds it empty. He incapacitates gunmen sent by Vosen and Landy. Nicky Parsons, a former Treadstone operative who shares a history with Bourne, tells him that Daniels has fled to Tangier and aids his escape from an arriving CIA unit.\n\nNicky learns that Blackbriar \"asset\" Desh Bouksani has been tasked with killing Daniels. Vosen sees that Nicky accessed information about Daniels and sends Bouksani after Nicky and Bourne as well, a decision with which Landy fiercely disagrees. Bourne follows Bouksani to Daniels but fails to prevent Daniels's death by a planted bomb. However, Bourne manages to kill Bouksani before he can kill Nicky. After sending Nicky into hiding, Bourne examines the contents of Daniels' briefcase and finds the address of the deep-cover CIA bureau in New York City, where Vosen directs Blackbriar. Bourne travels to New York.\n\nLandy receives a phone call from Bourne, which is intercepted by Vosen. When Landy tells him that his real name is David Webb and gives him the birth date \"4-15-71\", Bourne tells Landy to \"get some rest\" because she looks tired, tipping off that he is in New York and watching her from an overlooking building. Vosen intercepts a text to Landy from Bourne of a location to meet up, and leaves his office with a tactical team. Bourne, however, waits for them all to leave, enters Vosen's office, and takes classified Blackbriar documents. When he realizes that he has been tricked, Vosen sends Paz after Bourne, but the resulting car chase ends with Bourne forcing Paz's car to crash into a concrete barrier. Bourne holds the injured Paz at gunpoint, but spares his life.\n\nBourne arrives at a hospital at 415 East 71st Street, having figured out Landy's coded message. Outside, Bourne meets Landy and gives her the Blackbriar files before going inside. Vosen also figures out Landy's code and warns Dr. Albert Hirsch, who ran Treadstone's behavior modification program, that Bourne is coming. He follows Landy inside the building but is too late to stop her from faxing the Blackbriar documents out. Meanwhile, on an upper floor, Hirsch is confronted by Bourne, who now remembers that he volunteered for Treadstone. As Bourne flees to the roof, he is confronted by Paz, who asks, \"Why didn't you take the shot?\" Bourne asks Paz if he knows why he's supposed to kill him, and repeats the dying words of The Professor in \"The Bourne Identity\": \"Look at us. Look at what they make you give.\" Paz lowers his gun, but Vosen appears and shoots at Bourne as he jumps into the East River.\n\nSome time later, Nicky watches a news broadcast about the exposure of Operation Blackbriar, the arrests of Hirsch and Vosen, a criminal investigation against Kramer, and the whereabouts of David Webb, a.k.a. Jason Bourne. Upon hearing that his body has not been found after a three-day search of the river, Nicky smiles. Bourne is shown swimming away in the East River.\n\nTom Gallop reprises his role as special agent Tom Cronin, Pamela Landy's assistant. Corey Johnson plays Ray Wills, Vosen's deputy at Operation Blackbriar. Joey Ansah plays Desh Bouksani, a Blackbriar asset tasked to kill Bourne in Tangier. Colin Stinton plays Neal Daniels, CIA station chief in Madrid and a former member of Treadstone, who observed David Webb's initiation into the project and his transition to Jason Bourne. Lucy Liemann plays Lucy, a Blackbriar technician. Franka Potente has an uncredited appearance in a flashback as Marie Kreutz, Bourne's murdered girlfriend.\n\n\"The Bourne Ultimatum\" was filmed at Pinewood Studios near London and in multiple locations around the world, including Tangier, London, Paris, Madrid (as itself and double for Turin), Berlin (as double for Moscow), New York City including the Springs Mills Building (as the deep cover CIA offices), and other locations in the U.S.\n\nTony Gilroy, who had co-written the screenplays of the first two \"Bourne\" films, had intended \"The Bourne Supremacy\" to emphasise Bourne's repentance and atonement for his murders, but felt that the released film omitted this focus. Gilroy was persuaded to write an initial draft of \"The Bourne Ultimatum\", but did not participate further, and as of 2009 had not watched the finished film. Gilroy's screenplay draft was subsequently criticized by Matt Damon.\n\nTom Stoppard wrote a draft of the screenplay, later saying \"I don't think there's a single word of mine in the film.\"\n\nPaul Greengrass spoke about the characterization of Jason Bourne in \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" shortly before its release:\n\nIn the audio commentary for the DVD release of \"The Bourne Ultimatum\", director Paul Greengrass confirmed the following scenes were deliberate allusions to scenes from the previous installments of the Bourne film franchise. They include:\n\n\nAs with the previous films in the trilogy, the score was composed by John Powell. A new version of Moby's \"Extreme Ways\", entitled \"Extreme Ways (Bourne's Ultimatum)\", was recorded for the film's end credits.\n\n\n\"The Bourne Ultimatum\" was released nationwide on August 30, 2007.\n\nIn addition to the stand-alone DVD release, there is a limited edition 'The Jason Bourne Collection' gift set, featuring all three films on DVD and a bonus disc with myriad bonus features such as deleted scenes and featurettes. The gift set features Swiss Bank safe deposit box packaging including foreign currency and a Jason Bourne passport.\n\nThe film and special features on the HD DVD version are presented in 2:35:1 Widescreen high definition 1080i and offer Dolby TrueHD 5.1 lossless and Dolby Digital Plus 5.1 audio options.\n\n\"The Bourne Ultimatum\" earned $69,283,690 during its opening weekend at the box office, which at the time held the record for the highest grossing August opening for seven years, later overtaken by \"Guardians of the Galaxy\" in 2014. At the end of its theatrical release, the film grossed a total of $227,471,070 in the U.S. and $215,353,068 in foreign markets for a worldwide total of $442,824,138, making it the highest-grossing film in the series.\n\nOn the review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film had an overall approval rating of 92% based on 264 reviews and an average score of 8/10, higher than both predecessors. The site's consensus describes the film as \"an intelligent, finely tuned non-stop thrill ride. Another strong performance from Matt Damon and sharp camerawork from Paul Greengrass make this the finest installment of the Bourne trilogy\". At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted average score out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the film received an average score of 85 based on 38 reviews, indicating \"universal acclaim\", making it the highest rated film in the franchise.\n\nLike its predecessor, \"The Bourne Supremacy\", the film was criticized for its use of \"shaky camera\" work, as Richard Corliss of \"Time\" magazine, in an otherwise positive review, wondered \"why, in the chat scenes, the camera is afflicted with Parkinson's? The film frame trembles, obscures the speaker with the listener's shoulder, annoys viewers and distracts them from the content of the scene.\"\n\nIn the British press, the inclusion of a fictional journalist from the real British paper \"The Guardian\" and scenes set in the United Kingdom (particularly Waterloo railway station) were commented upon. In particular, that newspaper's reviewer joked that \"dodging bullets from a CIA sniper... is the sort of thing which happens to us \"Guardian\" journalists all the time.\"\n\nThe film was also well received in the hacker subculture, as it showed actual real-world applications such as the Bourne-again shell and Nmap, unlike many other films featuring hacking scenes (such as \"Hackers\").\n\nThe film appeared on several critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2007.\n\n\nIn May 2007, prior to the release of \"The Bourne Ultimatum\", Matt Damon claimed that he would not be interested in returning for a fourth \"Bourne\" film, stating (of his participation in the \"Bourne\" franchise): \"We have ridden that horse as far as we can.\" Damon said in August 2007:\n\nHowever, on February 22, 2008, \"Variety\" reported that a fourth film was indeed in the works, with both Damon and Greengrass on board.\n\nOn October 16, 2008, it was announced that George Nolfi would write the script, with Frank Marshall producing, and Jeffrey Weiner and Henry Morrison executive producing. Matt Damon, Julia Stiles, Joan Allen, and Paul Greengrass were also attached to the film. Joshua Zetumer had been hired to write a parallel script—a draft which could be combined with another (Nolfi's, in this instance)—by August 2009 since Nolfi would be directing \"The Adjustment Bureau\" that September.\n\nOn February 1, 2010, Damon, speaking at the U.K. premiere of \"Invictus\", revealed that a follow-up to \"The Bourne Ultimatum\" was \"at least five years away\". Greengrass, also at the premiere, re-stated that he would not be part of any further \"Bourne\" films \"unless the right script came along\". However, Damon revealed that in the meantime there may be a \"Bourne\" \"prequel of some kind, with another actor and another director\". Matt Damon reconfirmed this on a March 10, 2010 appearance of \"Today\" and that he would only be involved if Greengrass was directing.\n\nIn June 2010, it was announced that Tony Gilroy would be writing \"The Bourne Legacy\" and it would have a 2012 release date. That October, Gilroy was announced as the director of \"The Bourne Legacy\"; he confirmed that Damon would not return for this film and that there would be \"a whole new hero\":\n\"The Bourne Legacy\" was released in the U.S. on August 10, 2012.\n\nUniversal Pictures stated at a media conference in Los Angeles, California, that they are likely to release more \"Bourne\" films, despite \"The Bourne Legacy\" being given mixed reviews by critics. On September 15, 2014, it was announced that Damon and Greengrass will indeed return for the next \"Bourne\" film, taking the release date, with Renner returning as Cross in a separate film at a later date. On June 18, 2014, the studio pushed back the film from August 14, 2015, to July 15, 2016. The film \"Jason Bourne\" premiered in the United States on July 29, 2016 to mixed reviews.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854001", "title": "Montijo, Portugal", "text": "Montijo, Portugal\n\nMontijo () is a municipality in Setúbal District in Portugal. Its name was Aldeia Galega do Ribatejo or simply Aldeia Galega until 1930. The population in 2011 was 51,222, in an area of 348.62 km². The town of Montijo proper had a population of 25,719 in 2001.\n\nIt is one of the few municipalities in Portugal without territorial continuity; that is, its component parts are not conjoined. It is located in the Lisbon metropolitan area.\n\nThe present mayor of Montijo is Maria Amélia Macedo Antunes (Socialist), and the President of the Municipal Assembly is António Isidro Paracana (Socialist).\n\nMontijo was known as Aldeia Galega until July 6, 1930, in spite of the fact that it was a small town and no longer a village. It was elevated to city status on August 14, 1985.\n\nPaleolithic vestiges of human settlement suggest that the region was occupied into the pre-history. Yet, the first historical references date to the 12th century, in 1186, with the donations of religious and hereditary lands to Paio Peres, that initiated formal occupation.\n\nInitially, the settlement was a constituted of poor hovels, that were villages for fishermen and farmers, but by the 14th century, the area had developed into a sizeable centre, with its own church, dedicated to São Sebastião.\n\nDuring the reigns of Afonso IV, Pedro and Fernando, Montijo was awarded various privileges that John I later confirmed in 1385. For a long time, the place formed one ecclesiastical parish with neighboring Alcochete, whose seat was in the village of Santa Maria de Sabonha, in the parish of São Francisco. On 15 September 1514, Manual I conceded a foral (\"charter\"), which was quickly renewed on 17 January 1515, with Alcochete.\n\nIn 1539, the centres separated resulting in administrative autonomy. The grand postmaster, Luís Afonso, established his seat in the south in 1533, due to its geographic conditions and close proximity to Spain and southern Portugal. A year earlier, John III had registered the title to the village of \"Aldea Galega\".\n\nOver the years, many monarch passed through Montijo, such as the future John IV of Portugal, who arrived on 5 December 1640, to enthusiastic cheers from the nobels, clerics and people of the village.\n\nIn 1808 Montijo suffered the roaming attacks and pillage of French forces.\n\nTwenty one years later, a carriage post between Montijo and Badajoz/Madrid, which was of short duration and lasted until 1831. In 1843, during an official visit, Queen Maria II of Portugal necessitated the carriage, allowing a 26-hour trip from Montijo to Badajoz. But, the service was suspended in 1864.\n\nAldeia Galega was one of the first centres to celebrate the implantation of the 5 October 1910 revolution, before Lisbon and other major centres.\n\nThe Vasco da Gama Bridge, inaugurated in 1998, connects Montijo with the capital city of Lisbon. Numerous roads, including the IC13, provide access to the south, east and west of Portugal.\n\nAlthough the train service via the Ramal do Montijo rail line was discontinued, Montijo maintains a network of public transportation that connects it to other nearby major cities and villages by bus and by a river service connecting it with Lisbon.\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into 5 civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nMontijo has international cooperation protocols with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854020", "title": "Caohai Lake", "text": "Caohai Lake\n\nCaohai Lake (, \"Sea of Grass\" in Chinese) is a natural water-body situated in the Northwest Guizhou Province, of Southwest China. The lake is situated on the Weining Mountain, at the outskirts of Weining County. Caohai Village lies directly at the edge of the wetland.\n\nThe lake's original area was . However, as a result of drainage, cultivation and climate changes during the last decades, the lake area has shrunk to only . Its average depth is of and its altitude above sea level.\n\nSince 1985, the area around the lake constitutes a nature reserve at provincial level, and since 1992, at national level. Cao Hai Nature Reserve is an Important Bird Area. The reserve area is .\n\nThe lake area is the largest and most important wetland of Southwest China, providing wintering place of black-necked cranes, the only plateau crane left in the world. Besides, the lake is also inhabited by 184 bird species, including common cranes, hooded cranes, white storks, black storks, bar-headed geese, golden eagles, eastern imperial eagles, white-tailed sea-eagles and ruddy shelducks.\n\nThe frog \"Rana weiningensis\" is endemic to this area.\n"}
{"id": "1854030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854030", "title": "Pie in the Sky (TV series)", "text": "Pie in the Sky (TV series)\n\nPie in the Sky is a light-hearted British police drama starring Richard Griffiths and Maggie Steed, created by Andrew Payne and first broadcast in five series on BBC1 between 13 March 1994 and 17 August 1997 as well as being syndicated on other channels in other countries, including the Australian Broadcasting Corporation. The series differs from other police dramas in that the protagonist, Henry Crabbe, while still being an on-duty, \"semi-retired\" policeman (much against his will), is the head chef of the title restaurant set in the town of Middleton and county of Westershire.\n\nDetective Inspector Henry Crabbe is a long-serving police officer in the fictional county of Westershire. Although very much his own man and an independent thinker, he is not a maverick, nor has he any particular neuroses; indeed, Crabbe is a highly intelligent, gentle and thoughtful man of high moral principle. On the other hand, he does have one passion in life: food. He dreams of retiring from the police to run his own restaurant serving good English fare. However, since he is the most outstanding detective in his department, his superiors – in particular Assistant Chief Constable Freddie Fisher – are reluctant to allow him to leave.\n\nThe first episode (\"The Best of Both Worlds\") opens with Crabbe, after 25 years in the force, just seven weeks away from retirement when he finds himself close to catching high-profile fraudster Dudley Hooperman (played by Michael Kitchen), whom he has been trailing for years. While making his escape (with £3–4 million worth of stolen treasury bills) Hooperman shoots Crabbe in the leg, which, although a relatively minor injury, consolidates Crabbe's desire to retire on his police pension and open his own restaurant in the fictional town of Middleton – \"Pie in the Sky\", technically owned by his wife Margaret, although Henry is the main chef. (Much to Henry's disgust, Margaret has no feeling whatever for food, seeing it as nothing more than fuel, and has a partiality for bars of chocolate and – horror of horrors, in Henry's eyes – prawn cocktail flavour crisps). However, during his \"final\" case, an investigation into police corruption, he is tricked into appearing to take a bribe. Although Crabbe himself is entirely innocent, the circumstances enable his superior, A.C.C. Fisher, effectively to blackmail Crabbe into continuing to take on occasional cases as required, threatening to re-open the inquiry if Crabbe disagrees. Thus Crabbe has, in Fisher's own words, the best of both worlds – still investigating the cases that Fisher puts his way while at the same time cooking back at \"Pie in the Sky\".\n\nBetween his first love – cooking – and being constantly called back on duty by Fisher, Henry finds that he's not going to fulfil his dream in peace.\n\nProwlers, sudden deaths, retrieving rebellious daughters, missing lovers, psychics and fear of the restaurant critic are all elements Henry has to deal with as well as creating his signature steak and kidney pie – containing anchovies and said to be addictive.\n\nIn the kitchen of the restaurant, Mr. Crabbe keeps a portrait of the famous French British chef and philanthropist Alexis Soyer, and sometimes takes the portrait out with him, and talks about his work and charitable deeds.\n\n\nIn order to establish Crabbe's dual role as both detective and chef, the opening credits featured a montage of the character's imagined bookshelf featuring books on criminology and various books on culinary subjects. These include: George H. Ellwanger's \"The Pleasures of the Table\" edited by Jennifer Taylor, \"The Selected Soyer: The writings of the legendary Victorian Chef Alexis Soyer\", Elizabeth Ray's biography of Soyer, Abbie Zabar's \"The Potted Herb\", Henri Babinski's \"Encyclopedia of Practical Gastronomy\" (under his alias \"Ali-Bab\"), \"Warne's Model Cookery and Housekeeping Book\" by Mary Jewry, Isabella Mary Beeton's \"Mrs. Beeton's Family Cookery\", and Volume I & II of John Kirkland's \"The Modern Baker, Confectioner and Caterer\".\n\nWestershire, the fictional county where the series is set, is based on Berkshire in southern England. Although scenes in Middleton were often filmed in Marlow in Buckinghamshire, the exterior of the restaurant, Pie in the Sky, was filmed outside number 64 High Street in the Old Town in Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire. Originally, a florist and then a toy shop, the building became a minor tourist attraction while the series ran, and from 1997 has housed the business of a dolls’-house maker. A nearby restaurant at 80 High Street renamed itself \"Pie in the Sky\" (later becoming \"Les Amants\") to capitalise on the programme's popularity. In Olinda, Victoria in Australia, a very successful restaurant called \"Pie in the Sky\" also serves many of the TV series' recipes and especially its famous crusty steak and kidney pies. All internal filming at the restaurant was carried out at Bray Studios at Water Oakley, near Windsor in Berkshire. The local newspaper, the Maidenhead Advertiser, occasionally appears in the series redubbed the 'Barstock and Middleton Advertiser'. Freddie Fisher plays golf at Stoke Park Golf Club at Stoke Poges.\n\nBoth the exterior and interior of the 'Nebditch Intercontinental Hotel' which features throughout episode 2 of the 1st series, \"The Truth Will Out\", was filmed at John Nike's Coppid Beech Hotel in Binfield, near Bracknell in Berkshire.\n\nIn episode 3 of the 1st series, \"An Innocent Man\", railway enthusiast Duncan Spellar lives at Brocket Hall at Lemsford in Hertfordshire. In the opening scene, Julian Tubbs MP is shown dining on the terrace at the 'Compleat Angler' at Bisham in East Berkshire, overlooking Marlow Church on the other side of the River Thames. Later Crabbe follows him to 'Middleton Station' which was filmed at Horsley railway station in Surrey.\n\nIn episode 4 of the 1st series, \"Once a Copper\", the opening scene was filmed at Shirburn Castle. Barstock University is Bracknell College. Cambridge meets with an officer from a former investigation in Bracknell - the 3M Building can be seen out of the window. The 'Thin Blue Line' Conference takes place at Oakley Court, adjoining Bray Studios. Henry confronts a supposedly dead criminal at Windsor Racecourse and is later shown hurrying to the Japanese Reception across Marlow Bridge.\n\nIn episode 5 of the 1st series, \"A Shot in the Dark\", the deceased works at White Waltham Airfield while his home is a cottage in Waltham St Lawrence both in East Berkshire.\n\nIn episode 1 of the 2nd series, \"Hard Cheese\", the 'Laxton Grange Hotel' was filmed at Oakley Court, adjoining Bray Studios in Berkshire. The local cheese-merchant confesses his indiscretions to Henry in the garden at the Flower Pot Hotel at Aston near Remenham, also in Berkshire. Henry and Cambridge examine a large map at one point which reveals other locations in Berkshire: Henry's home town of 'Middleton' is a non-existent town located at Waltham St Lawrence; 'Laxton' is broadly based on the town of Bracknell, though actually located at nearby Warfield; 'Brayfield' is broadly based on Maidenhead, being located at Braywick on the town's southern edge; adjoining this is 'Sommersby' based on Twyford relocated to Woolley Green.\n\nIn episode 5 of the 2nd series, \"Dead Right\", Henry has a picnic with the psychic down by the River Thames in the churchyard at Bisham in East Berkshire.\n\nEpisode 7 of the 2nd series, \"Swan in His Pride\", is set in the city of Bath in Somerset which features throughout. Crabbe and Fisher catch the train to Bath from Reading railway station in Berkshire.\n\nIn episode 9 of the 2nd series, \"The Mystery of Pikey\", the bikers rally in front of Warfield Church, near Bracknell, in Berkshire; while the tyres of a number of cars are slashed at Baileys Garage in Maiden's Green, part of the neighbouring parish of Winkfield. The Anchor public house at Wisley, near Woking, in Surrey features throughout the episode.\n\nIn episode 4, \"Doggett's Coat and Badge\", Doggett is seen purchasing a Bow Street Runner figurine in a shop in Windsor in Berkshire.\n\nIn episode 6, \"Coddled Eggs\", Crabbe and Fisher are seen entering their police station. This was filmed at what was then the Mercury Rev (as of 2016, the Honda UK Building) in Cain Road in Binfield, also in Berkshire. The railway station where Crabbe mans the anti-crime trailer is between Maidenhead and Slough.\n\nIn episodes 1 & 2 of the 4th series, \"Devils on Horseback,\" the cider brewery is filmed at Stanlake Park near Twyford in Berkshire. The Horse and Jockey public house is The Greyhound at Aldbury, Hertfordshire.\n\nIn episode 5 of the 4th series, \"Breaking Bread,\" Crabbe and Cambridge go to the council estates department to examine building plans. The offices are Easthampstead Park, near Bracknell.\n\nThe eponymous restaurant goes through a re-design, with the previous light décor being changed to a darker terracotta and the whole bar area being moved from being adjacent to the kitchen doors to the right-hand window bay. In episode 2 of the 5th series, \"Ugly Customers,\" Crabbe goes to examine the home of the foreman of the jury. He visits a small country house which is the 'Pump Room' at Winkfield Plain, near Windsor, in Berkshire.\n\nIn episode 4, the school featured was the Masonic Senior School (later the International University) in Bushey, Herts.\n\nThe entire series is available on DVD in the UK.\n\nIn the United States, Acorn Media has released separate sets of all five series on 12 May 2009 (Series 1), 26 January 2010 (Series 2), 7 September 2010 (Series 3), 25 January 2011 (Series 4) and 2 August 2011 (Series 5). The complete series was released on DVD by Acorn Media on 11 November 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854034", "title": "2005 Taiwanese National Assembly election", "text": "2005 Taiwanese National Assembly election\n\nAn election for the National Assembly took place in Taiwan on Saturday, , from 07:30 to 16:00 local time. It elected an ad hoc National Assembly whose only function was to serve as a constitutional convention in order to approve or reject amendments to the Constitution of the Republic of China already proposed by the Legislative Yuan. The results indicated that the amendments would be approved, as the parties supporting them won an overwhelming majority, and indeed the amendments were passed on 7 June 2005. The election was carried out using purely the party-list proportional representation system. The official campaign period was 07:00 to 22:00 each day from to . Official election broadcasts by the ad hoc coalitions (officially termed 'unions') and (established) parties were provided by the Public Television Service Taiwan on ; several unofficial debates were also arranged. Notably, this election saw the temporary breakdown of the traditional two-coalition system in Taiwanese politics: instead of dividing into the Pan-Green Coalition and Pan-Blue Coalition over the political status of Taiwan, the parties divided themselves into larger and smaller parties, with the larger Democratic Progressive Party and Kuomintang in support of the amendments and the smaller People First Party and Taiwan Solidarity Union against them.\n\nThe official results showed that the turnout was only 23.36%, a record low despite the Central Election Commission holding an official raffle for those who turned out to vote. The parties supporting the amendments won 249 out of a total of 300 seats, compared to the opposition's 51 seats, which was enough to ensure that the constitutional amendments were passed by the elected National Assembly. Though this election was not campaigned along the coalition tendencies, some analysts are inclined to see it as a forerunner for the upcoming elections such as the county-level gubernatorial, mayoral, and council elections that may take place later in the year. Tallying along those lines, Pan-Green Coalition has won 49.6% of the vote and 149 seats out of the 300, with strength in southern Taiwan; the Pan-Blue Coalition garnered 45.9% with 138 seats, strongest in the north.\nThe 300 seats in the National Assembly were up for election. The follow parties fielded candidates on their party lists (followed by number of candidates for each):\n\nEach party or coalition, by law, had to register and announce whether it supported or disapproved of the proposed amendment; this was announced in the short gazette that was distributed along with the poll card. Since this assertion was binding on the members elected, the election was de facto a referendum on the proposed amendments. Only the Kuomintang, the governing DPP, and the three minor party registered their support for the amendments; the others have announced objection.\nNotably, the political tendencies dubbed pan-green and pan-blue coalitions were each split down the middle in their opinions on the proposed amendments, with the dominant partner in each coalition supporting the amendments, probably because the proposed electoral system would benefit large parties.\n\nEach individual in the electorate voted for one from the 10 parties and 2 coalitions. The seats were distributed amongst the parties and coalitions based on the total number of votes garnered by each. There was to be at least 1 female member guaranteed for every 4 elected in each party/coalition; and 1 aboriginal member guaranteed for every 30 in each party/coalition.\n\nThe elections themselves generated very little interest in Taiwan, which accounted for the record-low turnout. Polls indicated that most Taiwanese did not plan to vote and had little interest in or knowledge of what the election is about. In addition, most parties did not spend very much in campaign funds. Terrible weather in the north of Taiwan on election day also affected the turnout.\n\nThe only authority of the National Assembly was to accept or reject amendments which were proposed almost unanimously by the Legislative Yuan in August 2004, one of which was to abolish the National Assembly.\n\nThe proposed amendments may be summarized as follows:\n\nUsing referendums to ratify constitutional amendments has been portrayed by some as a step toward Taiwan independence. However, the requirement that such a referendum must first be approved by a three-fourths vote of the Legislative Yuan, and that at least 50% of the whole electorate had to vote for the change for the referendum to succeed considerably reduced the chance that these amendments would trigger a conflict with China.\n\nOne question which was unresolved until after the elections was the threshold for passage of the amendments. The DPP and KMT had advocated a majority vote for passage, while the smaller parties advocated a three-fourths threshold. It wasn't until the week after the election that the Legislature agreed on the three-quarters voting threshold - when it was already clear that the parties which supported the amendments controlled more than 75% of the National Assembly. Also, the TSU has advocated voting on the amendments separately, which was impossible as the inter-party agreement for these amendments stipulated that they be adopted all or none.\n\nThe proposed system of electing Legislative Yuan members is unfavorable to smaller parties, but was originally supported by the two smaller parties in Taiwan for different reasons.\n\nThis election initially generated little interest, as it was largely a procedural formality to elect a new National Assembly whose sole purpose would be to deal with the amendments, which were passed almost unanimously by the Legislative Yuan in August 2004. However, the unexpected pan-blue coalition victory in the December 2004 legislative election considerably changed the electoral landscape.\n\nOriginally, the Taiwan Solidarity Union supported the constitutional amendments on the belief that they would be a prelude to a more thorough move toward Taiwan independence. The Constitutional amendments were part of a package originally promoted by the Democratic Progressive Party, but were passed almost unanimously after compromises were made on the wording. However, after the December elections, which returned a pan-blue majority opposed to a rapid move toward independence, the TSU reconsidered its support, and has announced its opposition to the amendments.\n\nSimilarly, the People First Party changed its position. Most analysts believe that PFP leader James Soong had initially planned to have a major role in a reformed KMT which would consist of a merger of the KMT and PFP. However, the PFP performed poorly in the December elections, and after the elections Soong ended any talk of a merger and began an effort to improve relations with the DPP. The reconsideration of support is widely believed to be because the reforms would hurt small parties such as the PFP.\n\nFollowing the visit by Kuomintang leader Lien Chan to mainland China and a similar trip by PFP leader James Soong, the election has been unexpectedly turned into a referendum on pan-blue and pan-green plans for relations with China. During the week before the election, President Chen Shui-bian gave a television interview in which he argued that a vote against the constitutional amendments would play into the hands of the PRC and that the amendments marked a step toward legal Taiwan independence. However, these arguments have were widely criticized in Taiwan, since the Kuomintang, which is anti-Taiwan independence strongly supported the amendments, while the pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union strongly opposed them.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854036", "title": "Caithness General Hospital", "text": "Caithness General Hospital\n\nCaithness General Hospital is a rural general hospital operated by NHS Highland, located in Wick, Caithness, Scotland. It is managed by NHS Highland.\n\nThe hospital became operational in 1986 to replace the previous Caithness Central Hospital. A new Day Case Unit was opened by Sam Galbraith in 1999. A CT scanner service was introduced in August 2008.\n\nThe hospital formerly had a consultant-led maternity unit, but stringent application of clinical risk assessment criteria meant that in 2012 and 2013 around 30% of pregnant women in the Caithness area needed to travel to Raigmore Hospital in Inverness to give birth. In November 2016 the NHS Highland board approved the introduction of a community midwifery unit.\n\nThe hospital has the capacity to accommodate 68 inpatients: 20 medical beds, 42 surgical beds, and 6 beds in the midwifery unit. Its services include: 24-hour Accident & Emergency department, assessment and rehabilitation, general medicine, general surgery, midwifery and palliative care.\n\nIn December 2014 the health board announced that emergency surgical services would not be available at night or weekends from 15 December 2014, due to a lack of suitable consultant cover. A meeting between the health board and community leaders to discuss staff shortages was then scheduled for 6 January 2015.\n\nIn January 2017, the hospital completed the introduction of a midwife-led unit. , there are an estimated 136 births a year at the hospital; it has full accreditation as baby friendly, since November 2009.\n\nRadio Remedy is a volunteer run radio station based at the hospital.\n"}
{"id": "1854040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854040", "title": "The Elephant Vanishes", "text": "The Elephant Vanishes\n\nStylistically and thematically, the collection aligns with Murakami's previous work. The stories mesh normality with surrealism, and focus on painful issues involving loss, destruction, confusion and loneliness. The title for the book is derived from the final story in the collection.\n\n\"Note: This story was subsequently updated as the first chapter of \"The Wind-Up Bird Chronicle.\n\nAfter being disturbed by a strange phone-call from an unknown woman demanding ten minutes of his time, a man goes in search of his wife's missing cat and meets a girl in a neighbor's garden.\n\nA recently-married couple in their late twenties lie in bed, famished; they have little in their refrigerator: a six-pack of beer and some cookies. After drinking and eating all of it, the man recounts to his wife a time he and his friend “robbed” a bakery ten years ago. The two intended to take all the bread they could from a bakery by force. The man who ran the bakery offers a counterproposal before the two men can act: since he is a Richard Wagner fanatic, if they listen to \"Tannhäuser\" and \"The Flying Dutchman\" with him in the bakery, he will give them all the bread they can carry. They agree, and the bread is enough to feed the two men for a few days. After hearing of that story, the woman suggests that they do the same thing, despite it being 2:30 A.M.\n\nThey drive around Tokyo looking for a bakery but all of them are closed; they “compromise” to “rob” a McDonald's instead. With ski-masks and a Remington automatic shotgun, they enter the restaurant and demand thirty Big Macs. The three employees working there fulfill the peculiar request. The couple then leave the restaurant and drive until they find an empty parking lot; they then eat four to six Big Macs each until they are full. The man feels calm after this experience.\n\nA man working in the product-control section of a department store received a letter from a woman who wrote to complain that she had mistakenly bought Mahler instead of Brahms. The man is captivated by the woman's letter of complaint and so decides to make personal contact with her after seeing Kangaroos at a zoo; he decides to call this letter to her \"The Kangaroo Communiqué.\"\n\nA Tokyo man tells of passing the \"100% perfect girl\" for him in a Harajuku neighborhood. He imagines a scenario where an eighteen-year-old boy and a sixteen-year-old girl meet and agree that they are 100% perfect for each other. To prove their hypothesis, they agree to go their separate ways and let fate bring them back together. Years go by and one winter, they both get terrible influenza which causes them to forget much of their respective young adult years. They run into each other in Harajuku when he is thirty-two and she is thirty, but they do not stop for each other. The man says that this is what he should have said to the \"100% perfect girl.\"\n\nA woman has not slept for 17 days but does not feel the need for sleep. She conceals her condition from her husband and children but spends the nights eating chocolate, drinking Rémy Martin brandy, reading \"Anna Karenina\" and going for drives through the city in her Civic. Ultimately, her insomnia takes her to a nearly-deserted parking lot, where danger awaits.\n\nA man writes his diary, prompted by unique phrases to remind him of the day's events.\n\nA woman tells of her mother's divorce, prompted by a trip to buy some lederhosen in Germany as a souvenir for her husband who has remained at home in Tokyo. The shop refuses to sell her any as her husband is not there to be fitted, so she finds a stranger of the same size.\n\nA thirty-one year old married man and a twenty year old woman begin a casual and unclear relationship. The woman, an amateur mime, decides to leave Japan for Algiers. Three months later, she returns with a Japanese boyfriend. One day, the woman and her boyfriend ask if they can visit the man's home; because his wife is away visiting relatives, he agrees to the gathering. The three drink carelessly and smoke grass in the man's living room; the woman needs to be helped to bed after smoking one joint. \n\nBack in the living room, the boyfriend tells him about his idiosyncratic need to burn a barn about every two months. Interested, the man asks why and how he does this. The boyfriend replies that he feels morally obligated to do so and that he picks the barns that he will burn based on their condition. After the woman wakes up, she and the boyfriend leave the man's place, leaving the man very curious about barn burning. He plans his next few days around scouting possible barns nearby that the boyfriend might burn. He narrows it down to five barns, and passes by all of them on his morning run for a month, but there are no signs of arson. \n\nThe man sees the boyfriend again during Christmas and they share coffee. He asks if the boyfriend has burned a barn recently; he says he did a month ago. Before leaving, the boyfriend asks if the man has seen the woman lately; he says no, and the boyfriend says that he has not either, and she does not answer her phone or door. The man checks her apartment and sees that her mailbox filled with fliers. When he checks again later, he sees a new name on the door and realizes that she has disappeared. Continuing his daily routine, he sometimes thinks about barns burning.\n\nA monster burrows up into a woman's garden, breaks into her house, and proposes love. The creature can read her mind and she uses this fact to fight against it. Because of her adamant rejection of the monster, it eventually dies, reduced to nothing more than a shadow.\n\nA bachelor and his younger sister live together in a Tokyo apartment. During a trip to Fisherman's Wharf in San Francisco, the sister meets a man named Noboru Watanabe who later becomes her fiancé; the man disapproves of her choice. The sister retorts by saying that she thinks her brother tries to make a joke out of everything.\n\nWhen the sister invites Noboru over for dinner at the apartment, the men get a chance to interact with each other talking about plans after the wedding. The bachelor then leaves to go out for a drink. He meets a woman at a bar; they talk about baseball and proceed to have sex at her apartment after a few more drinks. When he returns home, he and his sister have a talk about their sex lives, where they learn the number of partners they each slept with; the bachelor says twenty-six while the sister says two before she met Noboru. After, they proceed to their separate rooms for the night.\n\nA graduate spends a year working at \"The Pen Society\" where he is employed to reply to letters from members, grading and making constructive comments on their prose. When he leaves he makes personal contact with one of his correspondents, a childless, married woman. They spend an evening at her place eating dinner and discussing their interests, particularly regarding arts and letters, before he leaves. When he passes by her neighborhood ten years later, he thinks fondly of that afternoon he spent with her.\n\n20–30% smaller than normal people, the TV people install a television in the narrator's flat, but the change is ignored by his wife. He later spots them carrying a television through his workplace, but when he mentions it to his colleagues they change the subject. Then his wife disappears.\n\nA Tokyo man recounts his contacts with Chinese people.\n\nIn 1959 or 1960 when the man was still in secondary school, he goes to a \"Chinese elementary school\" to take a standardize aptitude test. He remembers having to traverse up a hill to the classroom. When the proctor arrives he gives clear test-taking directions before announce that he is Chinese and teaches at the school. He then asks the forty test-takers to respect the desks by not vandalizing them. Everyone but the narrator responds \"yes\" and the proctor tells them to be proud.\n\nAs a nineteen year old college student in Tokyo, he meets a similar-aged Chinese woman during a part-time job at a publisher's warehouse; being born in Japan, she has little ties to her ethnic background. After their final day on the job, they agree to have dinner together and go to the discotheque. After their night of leisure, he mistakenly directs he onto the wrong train. Noticing his mistake, he takes the next train to the last station to reunite with her. After admitting his mistake and the woman confessing her insecurities, he says that he will call her tomorrow before she takes the next train back home. The following morning, he realizes that he threw away the matchbook on which her phone number was written. Despite that gaffe, he tries multiple alternatives to obtaining her number but is unsuccessfully; he never sees her again.\n\nAs a twenty-eight year old businessman, the man runs into a Chinese classmate from high school in Aoyama. Although they talk for a while in a coffee shop, the man is unable to recall who his colleague is until the line \"a lot of water has gone under the bridge\" is uttered, a memorable line from their English textbook from high school. The colleague then tells him about how he sells encyclopedias to Chinese families in Tokyo. Wanting for information about the infobooks, he gives his business card to the colleague before they go their separate ways.\n\nThe story ends with the narrator reminiscing on his idiosyncratic relationship with Chinese people.\n\nA man working at a factory manufacturing elephants dreams of a dancing dwarf, then hears the dwarf existed and danced for the king prior to the revolution. In a subsequent dream he makes a pact with the dwarf to win the heart of a beautiful girl at the factory dance.\n\nProud of his work, a man decides to give up his job mowing lawns as having split up from his girlfriend he no longer needs the money. He tells of his last assignment near Yomiuri Land.(1987)\n\nWhile waiting for a flight to Niigata, an unnamed narrator asks his friend Ozawa, an amateur boxer, if the pugilist has ever punched another person over an argument; Ozawa responds by saying that he did once, during a middle school feud with classmate Aoki.\n\nAoki was a model student who always got the top scores on tests. However, during one English test in middle school, Ozawa bested Aoki's score; Ozawa confesses that his parents promising him to buy an exclusive item motivated him to study harder than ever before. When Aoki learns of his \"failure,\" he spreads the rumor that Ozawa cheated on the test. When Ozawa confronted Aoki about the incident, Aoki showed much contempt and Ozawa retaliated by punching him in the jaw; the two do not talk for years even when they are in high school. \n\nDuring the final year of high school, Matsumoto, a classmate of both boys, committed suicide by jumping in front of a train. When the police investigated the tragedy, they learned that he was bullied by classmates, but are not sure of who gave him the bruises. They suspected Ozawa because of his boxing background and because he had hit another student in the past; Ozawa concluded that Aoki spread that rumor about him, still feeling sore about their run-in during middle school. Ozawa, despite being cleared of any wrongdoing, was still ignored by his classmates; they maintained a complete silence towards him for the rest of high school. Once, he stared down Aoki while enduring the silence until the end of the school year.\n\nOzawa tells the narrator that he has a idiosyncratic admiration for people like Aoki who cunningly seize opportunity. Ozawa then expresses disappointment in humanity that so many are willing to believe lies and follow without question people like Aoki. The two men decides to get a beer as they continue to wait for their flight.\n\nAn elderly elephant and its keeper disappear without a trace, the narrator being the last to see them.\n\nWhile the list above details which stories appeared before the publication of \"The Elephant Vanishes\", many of the stories have also appeared elsewhere more recently:\n\nThe British theatre company Complicite collaborated with Japan's Setagaya Public Theatre to produce a stage adaptation also entitled \"The Elephant Vanishes.\" The production featured three of the stories in Murakami's collection (\"Sleep,\" \"The Second Bakery Attack,\" and the title story). Directed by Simon McBurney and starring a Japanese cast, the play opened in May, 2003, in Tokyo before touring internationally in limited festival runs. The performance was in Japanese with English supertitles.\n\nThe show incorporated a great deal of multimedia, which Complicite had traditionally eschewed, but married it with the company's trademark communal storytelling and demanding physical performance style. The eponymous elephant, for example, was represented at one time by a magnified eye on a video screen, and at another time by four live actors bent over office chairs. This combination of technical wizardry and compelling human narrative received high praise from critics, who also cited the play's humor, realism, and dreamlike motion a fitting tribute to Murakami's prose.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854047", "title": "Jan Zamoyski (died 1619)", "text": "Jan Zamoyski (died 1619)\n\nJan Zamoyski (died 1619) was a Polish nobleman (szlachcic).\n\nJan became a Royal Rotmistrz and Deputy Guard of Kresy in 1588, Guard of the Crown in 1600 and castellan of Chełm in 1604.\n\nHe was married to Anna Wiśniowiecka and had six children: Jerzy Zamoyski, Maurycy Zamoyski, Zdzisław Jan Zamoyski, Aleksander Zamoyski, Jan Zamoyski and Helena Zamoyska.\n"}
{"id": "1854052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854052", "title": "Happy? (Public Image Ltd album)", "text": "Happy? (Public Image Ltd album)\n\nHappy? is the sixth studio album by English rock band Public Image Ltd, released in 1987.\n\nThe cover art by Richard Evans is a homage to the style of Austrian artist Friedensreich Hundertwasser, and an acknowledgement is made in the liner notes.\n\n\"Seattle\":\n\"The Body\":\n\n\"Selfish Rubbish\" (single b-side):\n\n\"The Suit\" (new version)/\"Religion\" (new version) (single b-sides):\n\nAll tracks composed by Dias, Edmonds, McGeoch, Lydon and Smith\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854053", "title": "Santiago do Cacém", "text": "Santiago do Cacém\n\nSantiago do Cacém ( ) is a municipality in Setúbal District in Portugal. The population in 2011 was 29,749, in an area of 1059.69 km².\n\nThe present mayor is Álvaro Beijinha, elected by the Unitarian Democratic Coalition. The municipal holiday is July 25.\n\n\nAdministratively, the municipality is divided into eight civil parishes (\"freguesias\"):\n\nSantiago do Cacém is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "1854054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854054", "title": "Little Spider", "text": "Little Spider\n\nLittle Spider is a solitaire card game using a deck of 52 playing cards. Because of its controversial form of game play and dealing, it should not be confused with 19 other solitaire games: Spider and its one-deck cousin Spiderette.\n\nGame play is composed of two parts. At first, eight cards are dealt into two rows of four cards each, with a space in the middle for the four foundations.\n\nAt the first part of game play, two aces of one color and two kings of the other should be found and transferred to the foundations. When at least one of them is available, it is built immediately; the kings are built down to ace while the aces are built up to kings, in both cases \"by suit\". Game play in this part is composed strictly of moving cards from the two rows to the foundations. Cards from the upper row can be placed on any of the foundations, while cards from the lower row can only be placed on the foundations directly on top of it. Once possible plays are made, eight new cards are dealt from the stock, one on each pile, empty or otherwise. Once the entire stock is dealt, the second part of game play begins.\n\nAt the second part of game play, cards from both rows can be placed on the foundations as well as around the piles at both rows, building either up or down regardless of suit at the piles. Building is also continuous as a king can be placed over an ace and vice versa.\n\nThe game is won when all cards made their way to the foundations.\n"}
{"id": "1854057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854057", "title": "Hale Farm and Village", "text": "Hale Farm and Village\n\nHale Farm and Village is a historic property of the Western Reserve Historical Society in Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio, United States. It is within the boundaries of the Cuyahoga Valley National Park. Hale Farm was the original homestead of Jonathan Hale, a Connecticut farmer who migrated to the Western Reserve in 1810. In 1973 Hale Farm was listed on the National Register of Historic Places as the Jonathan Hale Homestead. The Hale House was built in 1825.\n\nThe Western Reserve Historical Society opened Hale Farm in 1958 after receiving the property from Clara Belle Ritchie, descendant of Jonathan Hale.\n\nThe eastern half of Hale Farm and Village is a living history museum that has a variety of historical buildings, most relocated from elsewhere. This recreated village is called Wheatfield. The majority of Wheatfield's structures are inhabited by people who present information on their location but acknowledge the modern world. This technique is known as third-person interpretation. First-person interpretation means that the inhabitants of a structure work as actors who play out the livelihood of a certain year and setting. The timeframe reenacted by the first-person interpreters at Wheatfield was 1862 in 2007. Each year, the actors will move forward one year, until they reach 1865, the end of the American Civil War, at which point they will revert to 1861, which was the beginning of the war. They also offer programs such as \"A Fugitive's Path to Freedom\".\n\nHale Farm and Village also has demonstrations of various nineteenth-century trades such as candle, broom, and brick making, glass blowing, and a blacksmith shop.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854059", "title": "Leon McKenzie", "text": "Leon McKenzie\n\nLeon Mark McKenzie (born 17 May 1978) is an English former professional footballer who played as a forward from 1995 to 2013 who scored in all four English professional leagues during his career. He was also a professional boxer, competing in the super middleweight class.\n\nMcKenzie started his professional career with Crystal Palace in 1995. He also appeared for Fulham and Peterborough United on loan whilst with The Eagles before securing a permanent move to Peterborough in 2000. Three years later he joined Norwich City and was a part of the side which won promotion to the Premier League. He went on to play for Coventry City, Charlton Athletic and Northampton Town before dropping into non-league football with Kettering Town and Corby Town. He retired from competitive football on 1 January 2013. Following his football career, he went on to become a professional boxer. He won an International masters belt and fought for the English Super Middleweight title in 2016, losing by a split decision.\n\nMcKenzie began his career with his local club Crystal Palace, making his debut during the 1995–96 season. In 1997, he was loaned to Fulham and in 1998 to Peterborough United, where he scored 9 goals in 15 games.\n\nIn 2000 McKenzie joined Peterborough on a permanent basis for a fee of £25,000. In three years at London Road he scored 49 goals in 103 games.\n\nHe joined Norwich from Peterborough in December 2003 for a fee of £325,000, and instantly won over the Canaries supporters by scoring twice on his debut to help beat local rivals Ipswich Town at Portman Road and go top of the First Division. His goals made a significant contribution to Norwich's promotion to the Premier League as First Division champions at the end of the 2003–04 season. Within a year, he had turned from a Second Division to a Premiership player. McKenzie took time to find his feet in the Premiership but he established a strike partnership with Dean Ashton which would become one of the most potent in the division during the closing stages of the 2004–05 season. His goals helped Norwich to haul themselves into contention to avoid the drop, although they were relegated on the last day of the season.\n\nHe came third in the Norwich City Supporters Player of The Season vote for the 2004–05, beaten by Darren Huckerby and Damien Francis. The 2005–06 season for McKenzie was interrupted by injuries and personal difficulties surrounding the break-up of his marriage. At the start of the 2006–07 campaign, he handed in a transfer request to manager Nigel Worthington. Although Worthington rejected McKenzie's request, he subsequently confirmed that McKenzie would be sold if they received an offer that matched the club's valuation of the player.\n\nMcKenzie was signed by Coventry City on transfer deadline day in August 2006 for an initial £600,000 that, depending on appearances and promotion, could rise to £1m. Coventry's first match after signing McKenzie was against Norwich – however, McKenzie was unable to play due to a condition of the transfer that prevented him from playing in either of the two fixtures between Coventry and Norwich in the 2006–07 season. He made his debut for Coventry on 12 September 2006 as a substitute against Ipswich Town at Portman Road. He started the 2007–08 season well, scoring against Barnsley on the opening day of the season and against Hull, before a knee injury put him out of action for several weeks. He scored in Coventry's opening game of the 2008–09 season against his old club, Norwich City. This marked McKenzie's 100th professional career goal and he celebrated by revealing a vest with \"100\" on it. He was subsequently booked for his celebration.\n\nOn 1 September 2009 it was confirmed that he had signed for Charlton Athletic. He scored his first and only goal for Charlton against Southampton in the Football League Trophy on 11 November 2009. He was one of six players to be released by Charlton Athletic following the end of the 2009–10 league season. On 8 September 2010 it was confirmed he had signed a contract with Northampton Town until the end of 2010–11 season.\n\nMcKenzie featured in a friendly for Conference club Luton Town against Bedford Town prior to the 2011–12 season. On 15 December 2011 Mckenzie announced his retirement from professional football. He played his final game on 17 December 2011, after which he made a music single teaming up. ambitions. In July 2012, however, McKenzie came out of retirement to sign for Conference North side Corby Town.\nOn 1 January 2013 Leon played his last football game for Conference North side Corby Town and is now officially retired from football.\n\nHe is the son of former British and European boxing champion Clinton McKenzie and nephew of three time world boxing champion Duke McKenzie. Leon has written an Autobiography which was published by MacAnthony Media, and was released on 29 November 2012. Leon Is a head coach at 12x3 gym in Aldgate East and speaks internationally about mental health. Leon is divorced, now with French, Moroccan beauty Claire Boheme. Leon has five children - Kasey McKenzie, Mariya McKenzie, Naima McKenzie, Talia McKenzie and Teagan-Faith Courtney Mckenzie.\n\nMcKenzie has admitted battling depression. He was jailed for six months on 21 February 2012 for trying to avoid speeding convictions. In December 2011 McKenzie admitted that he had tried to commit suicide whilst a player with Charlton. Leon has gone onto be a speaker and ambassador for mental health.\n\nMcKenzie made his boxing debut on 29 June 2013 when he fought John Mason at York Hall, Bethnal Green in London. The fight was stopped in the second round with McKenzie picking up a victory in his first professional bout.\n\nOn 14 March 2015 McKenzie won his first title by beating Ivan Stupalo at York Hall to win the International masters belt, which made him the mandatory challenger for the Southern area title. On 17 October 2015 McKenzie beat the previously undefeated John McCallum at York Hall. The contest was brought to a halt at the end of the sixth round after McCallum was pulled out by his corner after suffering a badly damaged left eye. This edged McKenzie closer to a shot at the British super-middleweight title.\n\nOn 12 November 2016 McKenzie fought Jahmaine Smyle at York Hall for the English super-middleweight title, but lost for the first time in his career.\n\nOn 10 September 2017 McKenzie retired from boxing, after a four-year career. He said he hopes to change mental health issues and inspire in other ways to help people.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854071", "title": "Bobby Eaton", "text": "Bobby Eaton\n\nRobert Lee Eaton (born August 14, 1958) is an American retired professional wrestler, who made his debut in 1976. He is most famous for his work in tag teams, especially his days as one-half of The Midnight Express. Under the management of Jim Cornette, he originally teamed with Dennis Condrey and, later on, with Stan Lane. He also worked with a number of other tag team partners, including Koko B. Ware, Steve Keirn, and \"Lord\" Steven Regal.\n\nIn his career, Eaton wrestled for extended periods of time for various wrestling promotions: Mid-America Wrestling, Continental Wrestling Association, Mid-South Wrestling, World Class Championship Wrestling, Jim Crockett Promotions, World Championship Wrestling, and Smoky Mountain Wrestling. He also made brief guest appearances for Extreme Championship Wrestling, Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, and a considerable number of independent wrestling promotions over the years.\n\nGrowing up in Huntsville, Alabama, Eaton was a fan of professional wrestling, especially the NWA Mid-America professional wrestling promotion. This promotion was operated by Nick Gulas, who staged wrestling shows in the Alabama and Tennessee region. Eaton's first involvement in the sport came at the age of 13, while attending Chapman Middle School, when he helped set up wrestling rings in his hometown. He later trained under Tojo Yamamoto to become a professional wrestler.\n\nIn May 1976, at the age of 17, Eaton made his debut in NWA Mid-America. He entered his first match, a loss to Bearcat Wright, as a last-minute substitute for Wright's absent opponent. He quickly became a regular in Mid-America and continued to train with the more experienced wrestlers. Before long, fans, as well as promoter Nick Gulas, noticed Eaton's athleticism and showmanship. Gulas decided to \"promote\" Eaton up the ranks of NWA Mid-America, giving him matches later in the show, closer to the main event. The angle that helped elevate Eaton's name up the card in the promotion took place after the introduction of the tag team The Hollywood Blonds (Jerry Brown and Buddy Roberts). Eaton fought the Blonds with a variety of partners, including his old trainer Yamamoto and \"Pistol\" Pez Whatley. When the Blonds decided to move to a different wrestling promotion, the storyline maintained that Eaton was responsible for driving them out of NWA Mid-America.\n\nIn 1978, Eaton teamed with Leapin' Lanny Poffo (brother of the more well-known \"Macho Man\" Randy Savage), and together they won the NWA Mid-America Tag Team Championship from Gypsy Joe and Leroy Rochester. It was Eaton's first title win, and he and Poffo held it for a little over a month. Eaton went on to form a team, known as The Jet Set, with George Gulas, Nick Gulas's son. Together, Eaton and Gulas held the tag team title three times. During their time as a team, the two were involved in a storyline feud with Terry Gordy and Michael Hayes before Gordy and Hayes became famous under the name The Fabulous Freebirds.\nIn the spring of 1979, Eaton started a feud with Chris Colt, designed to establish Eaton as more than just a good tag team competitor. The feud between the two was so heated that it saw Colt suspended for piledriving Eaton on the concrete floor, making it appear Eaton had been seriously injured. Eaton suffered no injuries, however. At that time, the piledriver was banned in most federations and treated as a move that could potentially paralyze a wrestler. This was done to give the move more \"shock value\". Eaton conclusively defeated Colt, earning a place as one of the top faces (good guys) in NWA Mid-America. During 1979 and 1980, Eaton worked a series of singles matches against Dennis Condrey, a man he would later team up with to gain worldwide fame.\n\nAt the end of 1979, Eaton turned heel (bad guy) for the first time in his career by joining Tojo Yamamoto's group of wrestlers, whom the fans hated. Although Eaton is now thought of mainly as a heel, his fans were surprised at the time. Eaton's heel run did not last long before he rescued his former Jet Set partner, George Gulas, from a two-on-one attack by The Blond Bombers (Larry Latham and Wayne Ferris) to return to the fan-favorite side once more. After reuniting the team, Eaton and Gulas had one final run with tag team champions and worked an intense feud with Latham and Ferris.\n\nWhen Nick Gulas' wrestling promotion closed due to dwindling ticket sales, Eaton briefly wrestled for Georgia Championship Wrestling, even capturing the National Television Championship. Before long Eaton returned closer to home, working for promoter Jerry Jarrett's Continental Wrestling Association (CWA), which was centered in Memphis, Tennessee. During his early days in the promotion, Eaton faced Stan Lane several times in tag team competition. Eaton's most successful partnership in the CWA, in terms of title wins, was with Sweet Brown Sugar, nicknamed \"the New Wave\". The two wrestlers blended their athleticism and high flying abilities to form a very successful team. The New Wave held the AWA Southern Tag Team Championship three times (twice with manager Jimmy Hart in their corner). After achieving success as a tag team, it was decided that Eaton and Sugar should split up and feud with each other. This storyline resulted in Eaton \"forcing\" Sugar out of the promotion after he won a \"Losers Leaves Town\" match against Sugar.\n\nSugar's disappearance was soon followed by the appearance of a masked man called Stagger Lee, who looked and wrestled like Sugar. The storyline of Sugar returning under the mask to fight the heels helped make the masked man instantly popular with the crowd. Eaton, along with the rest of Jimmy Hart's stable \"the First Family\", tried in vain to unmask Stagger Lee.\n\nEaton turned face and re-teamed with Sugar, although they maintained the storyline that Eaton's partner was actually \"Stagger Lee\" and not Sugar. The team regained the tag team title before losing it to The Fabulous Ones (Stan Lane and Steve Keirn). Afterward, Eaton teamed up with The Moondogs (Rex and Spot) to face Jerry Lawler and the Fabulous Ones. During the match, one of the Moondogs accidentally hit Eaton with their trademark bone, costing their side the match. After the match ended, the Moondogs, as well as Jimmy Hart, turned on Eaton, beating him down until he was saved by Stagger Lee.\n\nSoon after Eaton joined Mid-South Wrestling under promoter Bill Watts, he became part of the Midnight Express. Eaton teamed with former rival Dennis Condrey under the management of Jim Cornette to form a new version of the tag team. The Express had previously been a group of wrestlers consisting of Condrey, Randy Rose and Norvell Austin, but with Eaton's arrival, the Midnight Express worked exclusively as a two-man team. To complement the nickname \"Lover Boy\" Dennis, Eaton was nicknamed \"Beautiful\" Bobby, a nickname he still uses when wrestling. At first, The Express was booked in an angle with the Mid-South Tag Team Champions Magnum T.A. and Mr. Wrestling II. The highlight of the angle saw Eaton and Condrey tarring and feathering Magnum T.A. in the middle of the ring. The Express first won the tag team title when Mr. Wrestling II turned on Magnum T.A., attacking him during the title match and allowing Eaton and Condrey to win the title without much opposition.\n\nWith Mr. Wrestling II and Magnum T.A. splitting up, the Midnight Express needed a new team to defend their newly won title against. They began a long series of matches against The Rock 'n' Roll Express (Ricky Morton and Robert Gibson) which ran well into the 1990s and spanned several wrestling promotions. The two teams feuded throughout 1984 in Mid-South Wrestling before the Midnight Express left the promotion. The Midnight Express versus Rock 'n' Roll Express series of matches were so well received by the fans that independent promoters all over the United States still book those two teams against each other today, 20 years after the rivalry started. The Midnight Express had a short stay in World Class Championship Wrestling in Texas, where they feuded mainly with The Fantastics (Bobby Fulton and Tommy Rogers).\n\nIn 1985 Eaton, Condrey and Cornette signed with Jim Crockett Promotions (JCP) and were given national exposure on JCP's televised programs on SuperStation TBS. Shortly after joining JCP, the Midnight Express reignited their feud with the Rock 'n' Roll Express and won the NWA World Tag team title from them in February 1986 during \"Superstars on the Superstation\". During the course of their heated angle, Eaton and Condrey re-lost the title to the Rock 'n' Roll Express six months later. Eaton and Condrey also had long running feuds with The New Breed (Chris Champion and Sean Royal) as well as The Road Warriors (Animal and Hawk). The feud with the Road Warriors included a high-profile Scaffold match at Starrcade 1986, which the Midnight Express lost.\n\nIn early 1987, Condrey left JCP for undisclosed reasons, and \"Sweet\" Stan Lane took his place as part of the Midnight Express. In May 1987, after teaming for only a few months, Eaton and Lane became champions when they won the NWA United States Tag team title for the first time, a title they would win three times during their time together. A year later the team was cheered on despite being heels, as the Midnight Express won the NWA World Tag Team Title from Arn Anderson and Tully Blanchard on September 10, 1988. This feud was cut short when Anderson & Blanchard signed with the WWF over money issues. The Midnight Express' run with the title lasted a little over a month-and-a-half before the Road Warriors took the gold from them in a brutal match up, which saw the heel Road Warriors brutalize the now-popular Midnight Express.\nNow the fan favorites, the Midnight Express had to contend with a team thought to be disbanded forever: the Original Midnight Express, which consisted of Condrey and Randy Rose, who joined JCP after a brief run in the AWA. The duo was led by long-time Jim Cornette nemesis Paul E. Dangerously, in a storyline that saw them trying to prove the originals were better than the new version. The surprise appearance of the Original Midnight Express gave Dangerously's team the initial momentum in the feud, but soon after, Condrey left the promotion once more. This forced the bookers to bring in Jack Victory as a replacement as Condrey's disappearance cut the promising feud short.\n\nThe Midnight Express then turned their attention to Paul E.'s new team, The Samoan S.W.A.T. Team as well as a new version of The Fabulous Freebirds. Eaton and Lane were defeated by the Freebirds in the finals of a tournament for the vacated World Tag Team Titles. Following this loss, the Midnight Express teamed with their former enemies The Road Warriors and \"Dr. Death\" Steve Williams to defeat the SST and the Freebirds in a WarGames match at The Great American Bash. Following this feud, Lane and Eaton began having issues with a young new team in the NWA known as \"the Dynamic Dudes\" (Shane Douglas and Johnny Ace). The Dudes admitted that the Midnight Express was one of their favorite teams and asked if Cornette would be their manager as well. Cornette agreed to manage the young team, to the displeasure of the Midnight Express. After arguing with the Express, Jim Cornette stopped accompanying Eaton and Lane to the ring, choosing to only actively manage the Dudes. At Clash of Champions IX, the two teams met with Jim Cornette appearing in a neutral corner, forced to choose between the teams. The Express started out very aggressively, especially for a team that was supposed to be fan favorites, and when the night was over, the Midnight Express had once again established themselves as heels with Jim Cornette in their corner; Cornette had never stopped siding with the Express.\n\nAfter returning to their cheating ways, the Midnight Express started a storyline with the up-and-coming team of Flyin' Brian and \"Z-Man\" Tom Zenk over the United States Tag team title. The Express won the title from the young team in early 1990, but lost the belts to The Steiner Brothers (Rick and Scott) three months later. After a loss at the WCW pay-per-view Halloween Havoc 1990, the Midnight Express split up, as Jim Cornette and Stan Lane left the federation, while Eaton chose to remain in WCW. For the first time in almost a decade, there was no Midnight Express.\n\nFor the first time since 1979, Eaton was a singles competitor, and he faced an uphill struggle to establish himself. He wrestled his former opponents in tag team competition such as Brad Armstrong (whom he defeated at WrestleWar '91), Ricky Morton and \"Z-Man\" Tom Zenk (whom he defeated at Starrcade '90, but lost to at Clash of the Champions XIV), but it was not until he turned face during the early parts of 1991 that he started to move up the rankings. Per a Wrestling Observer Newsletter report, Eaton signed a two-year contract worth $170,000 a year in January 1991. At SuperBrawl I, Eaton defeated Arn Anderson to win the World Television Championship. Eaton's highest profile match as a singles wrestler came when he faced off against the World Heavyweight Champion \"Nature Boy\" Ric Flair at Clash of the Champions XV in a two-out-of-three falls match. Eaton pinned Flair in the first fall, but ultimately lost to Flair two falls to one. His World Television Championship reign was short-lived, as he came face to face with newcomer \"Stunning\" Steve Austin, who cheated his way to win the title from Eaton.\n\nLate in 1991, Paul E. Dangerously formed the faction The Dangerous Alliance. Eaton joined the group when he assisted Rick Rude, with the storyline being that Dangerously had brought Rude to WCW, in defeating Sting for the United States Championship. In joining the group, Eaton became allies with Rude, Larry Zbyszko, and his two former rivals for the World Television Championship in Arn Anderson and Steve Austin. Shortly after the group was formed, Anderson and Eaton became its tag team specialists. This seemed to make sense, as both men had been successful tag team wrestlers in their careers; Anderson himself had been a two-time world champion teaming with Tully Blanchard in the Four Horsemen and had also won the belts with Zbyszko earlier in the year. Eaton and Anderson quickly won the WCW World Tag Team Championship by defeating Ricky Steamboat and Dustin Rhodes, the team to whom Anderson and Zbyszko lost the belts, for the championship and held on to the belts for five months before they lost them to the Steiner Brothers.\nThe Dangerous Alliance was a dominant force in WCW. At one point during 1992, they held every title except the WCW World Title, which was held by their main opponent and arch enemy Sting. The war between the Dangerous Alliance and Sting and friends escalated until it was decided to settle it in a double-ring War Games match at WrestleWar 1992. Sting's team won when Sting forced Eaton to give up after Larry Zbyszko accidentally struck Eaton in the arm with a metal rod. This match would be given a 5-star rating from Dave Meltzer of the \"Wrestling Observer Newsletter\".\n\nIn the aftermath of the War Games match, Zbyszko was kicked out of the Alliance for causing the Alliance loss. Soon after the Alliance disintegrated, Paul E. Dangerously left WCW. Eaton and Anderson continued to team after the Alliance fell apart, now managed by Michael Hayes. Eaton and Anderson worked in the tag team division until new WCW booker Bill Watts fired Eaton along with a number of other WCW regulars in a cost-cutting measure.\n\nWhen Eaton found himself without a job, he reached out to former manager Jim Cornette. Cornette had started his own wrestling federation, Smoky Mountain Wrestling (SMW) and welcomed Eaton with open arms. Eaton joined up with \"The Heavenly Bodies\" (Stan Lane and Tom Prichard), and the three were booked as the top heels of the federation for a while. Eaton also won the federation's version of the TV title, known as the SMW Beat the Champ Television Championship.\n\nEaton first toured through Japan with New Japan Pro-Wrestling in May 1993 during their \"Explosion Tour\", teaming with Tony Halme and in various tag team matches, facing teams such as Hiroshi Hase and Keiji Mutoh, Manabu Nakanishi and Masa Saito, Shinya Hashimoto and Michiyoshi Ohara, Riki Choshu and Takayuki Iizuka and even Hawk Warrior and Power Warrior, known as the Hellraisers, with the latter putting their IWGP Tag Team Championships on the line on June 14, in which Eaton and Halme lost. In January 1994, Eaton went back to Japan during their \"Fighting Spirit\" tour, wrestling only in tag team matches (with the exception of a singles match against Black Cat and another against Power Warrior) teaming with Rambo and Mike Enos. In November 1995 during their \"NJPW/WCW World in Japan\" tour, Eaton, now under the \"Earl Robert Eaton\" character, toured with New Japan for the last time, wrestling only two tag team matches in two days, teaming with Johnny B. Badd (the announcers mistakingly and constantly referred him as Bobby instead of Robert) in a losing effort against the Ookami Gundan (Masahiro Chono and Hiroyoshi Tenzan) and another losing effort alongside Lord Steven Regal against Kensuke Sasaki and Osamu Nishimura.\n\nWhen Bill Watts was ousted from his position in WCW in favor of Eric Bischoff in 1993, Eaton was rehired. Once back on the roster, Eaton teamed up with a young Chris Benoit in Benoit's first stint with WCW. Together they were mainly used to help establish rising teams or give established teams opposition. After Benoit left to return to Japan, in Eaton's next venture in tag teaming, under the name \"Bad Attitude\", he teamed up with Steve Keirn, formerly of the Fabulous Ones. Bad Attitude's single noteworthy moment together came when they were present as Arn Anderson turned on tag team partner Dustin Rhodes. Otherwise, the team did not get much exposure. During this time, Eaton also made a couple of appearances in ECW due to a talent trade arrangement between WCW and ECW. His most well-known appearance was at the \"When Worlds Collide\" show on May 14, 1994, where he teamed with Sabu to beat Arn Anderson and Terry Funk.\n\nAfter Bad Attitude quietly ended, Eaton was placed with British snob \"Lord\" Steven Regal. A series of vignettes followed, in which Regal educated Eaton on how to be a man of class and sophistication. The Blue Bloods initially feuded with the Nasty Boys (Brian Knobs and Jerry Sags), their complete opposites in terms of \"sophistication\" and presentation. They also feuded with Harlem Heat (Booker T and Stevie Ray) over the World Tag Team Championship, but never took the belts, and engaged in a short \"Snobs versus Rednecks\" program with the Stud Stable (Bunkhouse Buck and Dick Slater). In all of 1996 the team members made only one pay-per-view (PPV) appearance, as individuals in the \"Lethal Lottery\" during May's Slamboree. Later that year, Regal won the World Television Championship. Not long after, Eaton was moved out of the group, turning on his partners, wrestling Regal for the television championship on two occasions.\n\nThe Blue Bloods storyline represented the last serious push that Eaton was given by the WCW booking team. After the run with Regal and Taylor ended, Eaton wrestled mainly on WCW's weekend show, \"Saturday Night\", occasionally winning against wrestlers low in the rankings and losing to wrestlers above him.\n\nIn 2003, Eaton worked for NWA Mid-Atlantic, forming a new version of the Midnight Express with Ricky Nelson. This Midnight Express version was very short-lived, and Eaton instead began touring with Dennis Condrey (and sometimes Stan Lane) as the Midnight Express. This version of the Midnight Express performed together on select independent wrestling cards in the United States until 2012 when Eaton worked his last match.\n\nEaton made a one night only appearance for Total Nonstop Action Wrestling (TNA) on August 13, 2003, as a part of a Kid Kash storyline where Kash faced off against a series of 1980s wrestling stars such as Larry Zbyszko and Ricky Morton. Eaton lost to Kid Kash in his only TNA appearance to date. On October 23, 2015, Eaton wrestled his last match of his nearly 40-year career, losing to Ricky Morton, also ending the 30-plus year feud between The Rock 'n' Roll Express and The Midnight Express.\n\nEaton is often regarded as one of the nicest people in the wrestling business, even though he wrestled as a heel for a majority of his career. In his 1999 book \"\", Mick Foley praised Eaton as being one of the most underrated superstars in the business, and its nicest, commenting that \"it was damn near impossible to pay for anything with Bobby around, though I will confess to not trying that hard\". His generosity was not limited to picking up tabs, either: Jim Cornette and Sean Waltman have noted that Eaton would regularly travel with an extra suitcase filled with toiletries, socks, and other oft-forgotten items that he would give to anyone who needed them. This opinion was supported in \"The Stone Cold Truth\" by Steve Austin.\nIn addition to his personality, he is also popular with other wrestlers due to his wrestling style. Wrestling Eaton is known as \"a night off\", because Eaton is so skilled that the action looks very convincing but does not hurt the opponent.\n\nEaton is married to Bill Dundee's daughter, Donna. When they first started dating, they had to keep the relationship secret from her father, as her father had forbidden her from dating the wrestlers he was booking. When Dundee found out she was dating Eaton, he relented because Eaton was such a nice guy. Eaton and Donna have three children: Dustin, Dylan, and Taryn. Dylan is a professional wrestler.\n\nIn September, 2006 it was reported that Eaton was hospitalized after suffering a heart attack. Later, after being released from the hospital, Eaton released a statement saying that he did not have a heart attack but was diagnosed with high blood pressure with a hint of diabetes. Since then, he has suffered with several health issues, especially cardiac problems which have seen him hospitalized on several occasions. In June 2013, Eaton underwent successful surgery to have a pacemaker inserted.\n\nOn August 5, 2016, Eaton was reported missing by his sister Debbie. According to Tommy Dreamer, Eaton was last seen in Atlanta, where a photo, which has since been deleted, showed him eating at the airport, and had no phone and was confused. A day later, Eaton was found safe. Wrestler Matt Sigmon posted a photo on his Twitter account of himself and Bobby Eaton.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854076", "title": "Blister in the Sun", "text": "Blister in the Sun\n\n\"Blister in the Sun\" is a song by American alternative rock band Violent Femmes, originally released on their 1983 self-titled debut album.\n\nIn 2005, it became the first English-language track to ever be allowed on RTÉ Raidió na Gaeltachta, the Republic of Ireland Irish-language radio station, after having been selected by listeners for the event.\n\nThe song was featured in the opening of Episode 17 of the TV series \"My So-Called Life\" in 1995.\n\nThe song was also featured prominently in the 1997 film \"Grosse Pointe Blank\". John Cusack had initially requested an updated version of the song, which led to the band recording a new, slower arrangement that featured saxophones, strings and other instruments. This version of the song was dubbed \"Blister 2000.\" However, Cusack eventually decided he wanted to include the original version of the song as well. Because the original master tapes of the band's debut album had long been disposed of, they decided to record a new version of the original 1983 arrangement. Neither of these rerecorded versions appears in the actual film, although a new music video, directed by Evan Bernard, was created for the new recording of the 1983 arrangement. It features Gordon Gano as a deranged assassin trying to kill Socks the cat in puppet form, interspersed with clips from the film.\n\nIn August 2007, Gordon Gano was the subject of a lawsuit brought by bassist Brian Ritchie. The lawsuit stems partly from Gano's authorization of the use of \"Blister\" in a Wendy's commercial. In 2008, the song was featured on a Foster's Lager \"Stealing Shadows\" advertisement.\n\nIn 2010, the song was featured on Trident's Brazilian advertising campaign \"\"Vamos Rir Mais\"\" (\"Let's Laugh More\").\n\nIn 2014, the song was featured in an episode of the show Halt and Catch Fire\n\nIn 2016, the song was featured in an episode of the Netflix original series \"Love\".\n\nIn 2019, the song appeared in an episode of the Netflix series \"Sex Education\".\n"}
{"id": "1854080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854080", "title": "Imad Abbas", "text": "Imad Abbas\n\nImad Abbas () was an engineer and bomb maker for Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, the military wing of Palestinian Islamist movement Hamas. He was killed by an Israeli Apache helicopter on 21 October 2004, in Gaza City.\n\nAbbas joined the ranks of Hamas in 1991, when he was 17 years old. That year, he participated in an attack killing Israeli soldiers near the Karni crossing on the Gaza strip border, and so joined Israel's list of wanted members of Hamas. As a fugitive, he worked with other Hamas agents such Imad Aqel, before successfully escaping to Egypt in a boat. Abbas was arrested by the Egyptian authorities but soon released, and he spent the next four years travelling in various Arab countries. In 1996, he came back in the Gaza Strip where he joined other militants. At the beginning of the Al-Aqsa Intifada, Abbas became the assistant of Adnan al-Ghoul and Yahya Ayyash, Hamas's bomb-making squad. \n\nLiving in hiding and never appearing in public, Abbas was killed along with al-Ghoul on 21 October 2004, when an Israeli Apache helicopter fired missiles at the car in which they were travelling.\n"}
{"id": "1854083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854083", "title": "El Hijo del Santo", "text": "El Hijo del Santo\n\nJorge Ernesto Guzmán Rodríguez (born August 2, 1963) is a Mexican \"luchador enmascarado\", or masked professional wrestler and political activist, best known under the ring name, El Hijo del Santo (\"The Son of the Saint\"). Guzmán is the youngest child, out of eleven, of Rodolfo Guzmán Huerta, better known as El Santo, a professional wrestler, film actor, and Mexican folk hero. Jorge Guzmán's son made his debut under the name \"Santo Jr.\", the third-generation Guzmán to use the name \"Santo\". Jorge Guzmán's uncles, Miguel \"Black\" Guzmán, Jesús Guzmán (Pantera Negra) and Jimmy Guzmán were also wrestlers. Axxel, Jorge Guzmán's nephew, originally wrestled as \"El Nieto del Santo\" (\"The Grandson of El Santo\") but Jorge Guzmán owned the rights to the \"Santo\" name and objected. Guzmán has also followed in his father's footsteps, as he has starred in several lucha films.\n\nHe made his wrestling debut in February 1982 under the name El Korak, but officially adopted his most famous ring name and silver mask in October 1982. During his career as Guzmán has worked for every major Mexican wrestling promotion including Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre, Asistencia Asesoría y Administración, Universal Wrestling Association and World Wrestling Association as well as stints with the World Wrestling Federation (now WWE) in the United States as well as working in Japan for New Japan Pro-Wrestling, All Japan Pro-Wrestling and various other promotions. Early in his career he formed a successful tag team with Eddie Guerrero called \"La Pareja Atomica\", inspired by their fathers (El Santo and Gory Guerrero) teaming up from the 1940s to the 1960s. From 1998 through 2006 he also formed a very successful team with Negro Casas.\n\nOver the span of his career Guzmán has held various championships, most significantly the AAA World Tag Team Championship, Mexican National Middleweight Championship, Mexican National Trios Championship, Mexican National Welterweight Championship, CMLL World Tag Team Championship, UWA World Lightweight Championship, UWA World Welterweight Championship, WWA Tag Team Championship and WWA World Welterweight Championship as well as an honorary championship awarded by the World Boxing Council. He's also won the \"Leyenda de Plata\" tournament (held in honor of his father), the 1995 version of the CMLL International Gran Prix tournament and the 2004 \"Gran Alternativa\" tournament. In 1997 he was voted into the Wrestling Observer Newsletter Hall of Fame.\n\n\"Santito\", as he is often called, was the only one of his father's 10 children to become a professional wrestler. He began wrestling without his father's consent in February 1982 as \"El Korak\" but he made his official debut as \"El Hijo del Santo\" in October of that year after he earned his college degree at the Universidad Iberoamericana in Communication Science per his father's request. He shared his father's look, the silver mask, tights and cape, and moves but he was shorter and, although he would never become the same cultural icon, he would become a better in-ring performer than his father.\n\nEarly in his career, he was wrestled mainly for World Wrestling Association (WWA) (The Tijuana circuit) and Universal Wrestling Association (UWA) (a promotion that worked in the Mexico City area) but he did make his debut for Empresa Mexicana de Lucha Libre (EMLL) the promotion that later became Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL) in Arena Mexico in the summer of 1983. He also was voted \"Rookie of the Year\" in Mexico.\n\nHe won his first title, the UWA World Lightweight Championship, on October 1985 and traded the title with Aristóteles. He next feuded with Espanto Jr. (whose father feuded with the original El Santo) and el Hijo del Santo took his mask. Espanto Jr. took el Hijo del Santo's title but el Hijo del Santo regained it in 1988 and took Espanto Jr.'s hair as well after winning a Luchas de Apuestas (Spanish for \"Bet match\"). During this time, he also feuded with Negro Casas, who would become his most important opponent, and took his hair in a 1987 match in the Los Angeles Olympic Auditorium.\n\nIn 1990, he debuted in Japan for Gran Hamada's Universal Lucha Libre promotion and moved up a weight class by winning the UWA World Welterweight Championship as well as the WWA Welterweight Championship. In late 1991, he left WWA and vacated the Welterweight title but continued to wrestle for UWA until the formation of Asistencia Asesoría y Administración (AAA). El Hijo del Santo regained the WWA Welterweight title and brought it with him to AAA. One of the first feuds he was put in was against Negro Casas' youngest brother, Heavy Metal. Heavy Metal took el Hijo del Santo's WWA Welterweight title and won the Mexican National Welterweight Championship but el Hijo del Santo would come out on top of the feud and took both titles from Heavy Metal before he lost them again to another young star, Psicosis.\n\nHis most memorable feud during his time with AAA was against the American team, Los Gringos Locos. Eddy Guerrero's stiffer Japanese style offense, combined with \"Love Machine\" Art Barr's cocky mannerisms made Los Gringos Locos a very exciting yet hated tag team. During the feud, they played up the old \"Pareja Atómica\" tag team which consisted of El Santo and Eddie's father, Gory Guerrero. Eddie turned on Santo, leading to a hair vs. mask challenge for the \"AAA When Worlds Collide\" pay-per-view. The match was changed at the last minute when Barr pleaded with AAA officials to be included on the show which would be broadcast in the United States. The new match was a double hair versus double mask match with Santo teaming with Octagón against Los Gringos Locos. El Hijo del Santo and Octagón were victorious in the critically acclaimed match that would receive a 5-star rating from Dave Meltzer but it was the last stand for Los Gringos Locos as Barr died three weeks later. AAA owner Antonio Peña tried to run an angle with an evil version of El Santo called \"El Santo Negro\" who supposedly came from South America. When the other members of Santo's family objected, the feud was scrapped and El Hijo del Santo jumped to CMLL in 1995.\nThe object of the jump was to revitalize his feud with Negro Casas. El Hijo del Santo lost a match to Casas at the CMLL 63rd Anniversary show on September 20, 1996, and took a brief hiatus. While gone, Negro Casas turned técnico (face) and his former allies, Scorpio, Jr. and Bestia Salvaje said they had a surprise for Casas. The set-up was a trios match with Negro Casas, El Dandy and Héctor Garza on the \"técnico\" side with Scorpio Jr. and Bestia Salvaje on the \"rudo\" (or heel) side. El Hijo del Santo came down to the ring with Scorpio and Salvaje but was wearing a disguise and pretending to be El Felino, the brother of Negro Casas. During the match, Scorpio and Salvaje began attacking Casas and the fans, unaware of the ruse, expected El Felino to save his brother from the beating. Once he entered the ring, El Hijo del Santo removed the disguise and revealed himself as Scorpio and Salvaje's partner, thus turning \"rudo\" for the first time in his career.\n\nThe fans were irate and fistfights broke out in the crowd as El Hijo del Santo attacked Casas. The feud helped ease sagging business caused by the split with AAA and the downturn of the Mexican economy. The following week, the two trios had a rematch and both El Dandy and Negro Casas challenged Santo to a hair vs. mask match. The match was made a triangle match on December 6, 1996. Santo took El Dandy's hair in a bloody match in front of a sold-out crowd in Arena Mexico. The feud would continue until the 64th anniversary show on September 19, 1997, where Negro Casas and El Hijo del Santo faced off in a dramatic hair vs. mask match. El Hijo del Santo won the match and began a slow face turn.\n\nAlthough the angle was very successful and drew a lot of money for CMLL, El Hijo del Santo continued to wrestle as a babyface throughout the country, even teaming with Rey Mysterio in Tijuana. El Hijo del Santo began to be at odds with his heel allies, namely Scorpio Jr. and Bestia Salvaje. Finally, in September 1998, the face turn was made official when El Hijo del Santo's partners, Villano III and Fuerza Guerrera turned on Santo. Scorpio Jr. and Salvaje joined in on the beat down, leading Santo's next big feud.\n\nNegro Casas and El Hijo del Santo began teaming together and chased Scorpio and Salvaje's recently won CMLL World Tag Team Championship. El Hijo del Santo and Casas defeated Scorpio and Salvaje for the titles on February 5, 1999 by disqualification but El Hijo del Santo and Casas refused to accept the titles. The big match in the feud was a mask/hair versus mask/hair tag match between the two teams at CMLL's 1999 \"\" show. Santo and Casas were victorious and took the tag titles as well. El Hijo del Santo had a brief falling out with CMLL management and the tag titles were vacated. He returned and won the tag titles again with Casas from Los Guerreros del Infierno (Último Guerrero and Rey Bucanero) but later lost them back to Los Guerreros in 2002. El Hijo del Santo took another sabbatical from CMLL with Perro Aguayo, Jr. filling in his spot on the roster. He returned to CMLL in the summer of 2004, initially to work with Místico to help him become a main eventer and to feud with Perro Aguayo, Jr. and his La Furia del Norte group. After the feud ended, he had a program with young Guerreros recruit Averno and they had a WWA Welterweight title match on October 22 where el Hijo del Santo retained and ended his tour with the company.\n\nEl Hijo del Santo has continued wrestling as an independent worker doing shows all over Mexico. El Hijo del Santo even started his own promotion called \"Todo x el Todo\". the Promotions main show so far was a \"25 Year Anniversary Show\" shown by Televisa, a testament to el Hijo del Santo's appeal as Televisa rarely show independent promotions. the show featured a Relevos Suicidas tournament where the losing teams advance until the finals where the final team would fight each other over who would unmask. El Hijo del Santo ended up unmasking Pentagón Black in the finals, which meant that he booked himself to lose three times during the tournament. Around the time of el Hijo del Santo's 25th Anniversary the World Boxing Council (WBC) named el Hijo del Santo their \"WBC Wrestling Champion\" compete with title belt due to his \"Significant accomplishments in wrestling\". While the title is technically an honorary championship el Hijo del Santo defended it several times in 2008. In 2008, El Hijo del Santo began running shows in London, England featuring independent talent from Mexico.\n\nOn May 11, 2013, El Hijo del Santo and his rival, Blue Demon Jr., joined forces to win the Pro Wrestling Revolution Tag Team Championship from Brian Cage and Derek Sanders.\n\nOn November 25, 2013, Santo announced a break to repair damage in his spinal area. After successful rehabilitation returned to the ring, teaming with his son El Santo Jr. at a Lucha Ilimitado card in Yakima, Washington on October 12, 2016, and closing out 2016 with two matches alongside his son El Santo Jr in Tijuana on December 16 and in Ciudad Juarez on December 18.\n\nIn March, 2013 it was announced that one of Hijo del Santo's sons was going to travel to Japan to train in Pro Wrestling Noah wrestling school to prepare him for his wrestling debut under the ring name \"El Nieto del Santo\" (\"The Grandson of El Santo\"). The training started in May 2013 and he was set to return to Mexico three months later for his official in-ring debut. El Nieto del Santo was the first masked wrestler to attend the wrestling school, in honor of the \"lucha libre\" traditions and anonymity of their \"enmascarados\". He made his wrestling debut in 2015, working under the name \"Tempestad\", before adopting the name \"El Santo Jr.\" in July 2016.\n\nLike his father, el Hijo del Santo has also crossed over into other media. He is the subject of a comic book published and appeared on the Mexican reality show Día de Perros. He was also the star of a 5 episode animated series on the Mexican version of Cartoon Network titled \"Santo vs The Clones\". In 2007, he became a spokesperson for Wildcoast, an environmental non-profit organization, and campaigned to save sea turtles on the Gulf of Mexico from extinction. He has also been involved in gray whale campaigns and Tijuana clean-ups on behalf of Wildcoast.\n\nHijo del Santo has appeared in several films, first with his father and then on his own or with other famous luchadores. In 2000 he starred in the film \"Infraterrestre\", which received positive reviews from critics such as the respected Mexican film critic, David Wilt. In 2007 he appeared in the film \"Mil Mascaras vs. the Aztec Mummy\" (also known as \"Mil Mascaras: Resurrection\"), which also received positive reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854084", "title": "2002 in Swedish football", "text": "2002 in Swedish football\n\nThe 2002 season in Swedish football, starting January 2002 and ending December 2002:\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1854086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854086", "title": "Richard Clark (business executive)", "text": "Richard Clark (business executive)\n\nRichard T. Clark is a former chairman of the Merck & Co. (MSD) pharmaceutical company, a position he held from 2007 to 2011. His previous leadership positions at Merck & Co. include CEO (2005–2010), President (2005–2009), and president of the Merck & Co. manufacturing division (2003–2005).\n\nA first generation college student, he attended Washington & Jefferson College, where he majored in history and was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha.\n\nHe earned an MBA at the American University (1970) and was a lieutenant in the US Army 1970–1972. He joined Merck & Co. in 1972. He retired from the position of CEO in 2010 and retired as chairman in 2011.\n\nHe has served on the Washington & Jefferson College board of trustees. He also serves on the board of directors of Project HOPE and was chairman from 2010 to October 2018.\n\nWhile CEO of Merck & Co. in 2008, Richard T. Clark earned a total compensation of $17,320,938, which included a base salary of $1,783,334, a cash bonus of $2,244,510, stocks granted of $6,811,125, options granted of $6,408,300, and other compensation of $73,669.\n"}
{"id": "1854087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854087", "title": "Chistorra", "text": "Chistorra\n\nChistorra (, ) is a type of fast-cure sausage from Aragon, the Basque Country and Navarre, Spain. It can be considered a special type of chorizo. It is made of minced pork, or a mixture of minced pork and beef, is encased in either lamb tripe or plastic and has a fat content that varies between 70 and 80%. The sausage is flavoured with garlic, salt and paprika, which gives it a bright-red colour. It is usually baked, fried or grilled and often accompanies other dishes, sometimes as part of tapas. The final cured product tends to be thinner than traditional chorizo or sausage, with a diameter of approximately 25 mm. The sausages average in length, though there are cases when they reach up to long.\n\nIn the Aragonese Pyrenees, there are two different types of \"chistorra\": one made only of pork meat and another made of lungs, boned pig head and the pancreas, called \"berica\".\n\nThe local variety of chistorra available in the province of León is called \"Chistorra de León\" and is made with a larger percentage of beef.\n\nOne of the most popular dishes involving chistorra is \"huevos rotos con chistorra y patatas\", a dish with fried eggs and potatoes.\n\nChistorra is usually fried whole, but served chopped into smaller sections as a tapa. Fried chistorra is often accompanied by beer or wine, especially of the Txakoli variety. Fried chistorra is also a typical \"bocadillo\" (sandwich) filler (\"bocadillo de chistorra\").\n\nOther common dishes include \"croissant preñado\", a croissant with chistorra filler, and \"tortilla con chistorra\", a potato or egg omelet with chistorra.\n\nChistorra is traditionally served on the feast day of Thomas the Apostle (December 21) in San Sebastián. During the festivities, chistorra is often served alongside \"talo\" and is accompanied by cider.\n\n"}
{"id": "1854089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854089", "title": "HCJB", "text": "HCJB\n\nHCJB, \"The Voice of the Andes\", was the first radio station with daily programming in Ecuador and the first Christian missionary radio station in the world. The station was founded in 1931 by Clarence W. Jones, Reuben Larson, and D. Stuart Clark. HCJB now focuses on Ecuador with unified programming on FM at 89.3 MHz in Pichincha, at 92.5 MHz in Manabí, at 96.1 MHz in Tungurahua and Cotopaxi, at 98.3 MHz in Esmeraldas and with separate programming on AM at 690 kHz.\nBroadcasts in Spanish and indigenous languages on 6050 kHz (1 kW), continue on an intermittent basis with a new solid state transmitter which in 2017 replaced an older (5 kW) transmitter. These broadcasts were not listed on the HCJB English website as of February 2016.\n\nRadio station HCJB started as the vision of Clarence Wesley Jones (1900–1986), a musician, graduate of Moody Bible Institute, and the son of a Salvation Army minister. Following his graduation from Moody, Jones worked under evangelist Paul Rader and was part of the founding staff of the Chicago Gospel Tabernacle where Jones assisted in leading music, working with youth and overseeing Rader's weekly radio ministry called \"WJBT\" (Where Jesus Blesses Thousands) Impressed by the impact Rader's radio ministry had made, Jones felt called to establish missionary radio in Latin America. As a result, Jones traveled to Venezuela, Colombia, Panama and Cuba on a seven-week trip in 1928 looking for a suitable location for his envisioned radio station, but was unable to obtain the necessary government permits. Back in Chicago nearly two years later, Jones met Christian & Missionary Alliance (CMA) missionaries from Ecuador - Reuben and Grace Larson, John and Ruth Clark and Paul and Bernice Young. These missionaries encouraged Jones to consider Ecuador as the place to start his missionary radio station.\nAs the first step in fulfilling his vision, Jones needed to obtain a contract of approval from the Ecuadorian government for setting up the radio station. Reuben Larson and D. Stuart Clark, along with Ecuadorian lawyer Luís Calisto, worked to procure the initial contract. On August 15, 1930, the Ecuadorian Congress approved a bill which granted Jones a 25-year contract to operate a radio station in the country.\n\nAs with all countries having a governing body over broadcast operations, the call letters HCJB were obtained through the government of Ecuador, beginning with the internationally allocated prefix for Ecuador's broadcast stations (HC). Station co-founders Jones and Larson advocated for, and were granted by the government, call letters that were an acronym indicative of the stations' agreed upon purpose. The result was Heralding Christ Jesus' Blessings. In Spanish (one of the original broadcast languages of the South American station) the call letters represent Hoy Cristo Jesús Bendice.\n\nJones incorporated the World Radio Missionary Fellowship, Inc. (WRMF) on March 9, 1931 as a non-profit entity and overseeing organization over HCJB. Jones was also the non-profit corporation's first president. The corporation's first officers were Adam Welty as treasurer, Ruth Churchill, secretary, and Lance Latham and his wife, Virginia, along with Howard Jones and Reuben Larson serving on the board of directors.\n\nHCJB's first broadcast on Christmas Day, 1931 had the potential of being heard by the six radio receivers capable of receiving the program and existing in the country at the time. The inaugural program was broadcast in English and Spanish from a studio in the Joneses' living room and powered by a 200-watt, table-top transmitter. The antenna used was a simple, single wire antenna strung between two makeshift telephone poles. The broadcast lasted 30 minutes.\n\nInitially, HCJB only broadcast programs in English and Spanish. In 1941, however, live programs were added in Russian, Swedish and Quichua. By 1944, the station had aired programming in 14 languages including live programs in Czech, Dutch, French and German. Programs in languages such as Arabic, Italian and Hebrew were recorded elsewhere and sent to Quito on large acetate coated aluminium transcription discs. By 1967, live programming would be added in Portuguese and Japanese.\n\nFollowing the first years of HCJB's broadcasts on 50.26 meters (5986 kHz), the shortwave frequencies utilized by HCJB for its broadcasts from Quito were 6050 kHz, 9745 kHz, 11775 kHz and 15155 kHz. As the station's transmitting power increased, shortwave radio enthusiasts in North America started receiving the station's broadcasts, submitting reception reports in order to provide the HCJB engineers feedback on the station's signal strength and quality. Since a popular practice in the hobby of shortwave radio listening was to request a QSL card, HCJB started creating its own QSLs in 1932.By the 1970s, the station was one of the most powerful and most readily received shortwave stations. HCJB was heard around the world and received hundreds of letters each week with reception reports from shortwave DXers. The correspondence department of HCJB would respond in kind to its listeners with QSL cards and Christian tracts.As requests for QSLs became more frequent, HCJB missionary and radio engineer Clayton Howard suggested a shortwave listeners' club be created. In 1974, the Andes DXers International, (or \"ANDEX\") began. Members would receive a membership certificate and membership card with the member's name and individual member number, along with Howard's signature. A monthly bulletin, (later bi-monthly) was sent to members. ANDEX eventually had a membership in the thousands and continued as a service of HCJB until 1996.\n\nSince the station's first year of broadcasting, staff members produced the HCJB's own original radio programming.HCJB's original programming has ranged from programs completely in Quichua (the primary language of the people of the Andes), Andean-music programs, Christian music programming, talk and mail-reading programs featuring mail received from listeners around the world, Bible study and teaching programs, and programming featuring information about shortwave radio listening.Some of the most popular HCJB-produced programs over the years have been \"Morning in the Mountains,\" \"Musica del Ecuador\", \"Musical Mailbag,\" \"Happiness Is\" and \"DX-Partyline.\" \"DX-Partyline\" was hosted from its inception by HCJB missionary Clayton Howard and his wife, Helen. The program was heard for more than 40 years, twice a week, and included the reading of letters from shortwave listeners around the world as well as DX and reception reports sent to the station. \"DX-Partyline\" also included shortwave radio listening tips, information on antennas, and equipment reviews. Programs not produced by HCJB were also broadcast from the Quito station. Typically of a religious nature, some of the non-HCJB produced programs broadcast from the station were the Pacific Garden Mission's \"Unshackled!\", the Billy Graham Evangelistic Association's Hour of Decision, the Salvation Army's \"Wonderful Words of Life\" and Moody Bible Institute radio station WMBI's \"Nightsounds\" with Bill Pearce, among many others. Much of HCJB's original programming also included music recorded, produced and performed by HCJB missionaries. Much of the HCJB-produced music broadcast on the station was also available on LP record albums and later on cassette tapes.\n\n\n\nHCJB Global Technology staff members are involved in research, development, training and technical support for AM, FM and shortwave radio stations as well as satellite distribution and satellite-based Internet services. In recent years they developed station automation systems and a fixed-tuned, solar-powered SonSet radio that can be pretuned to pick up a specific Christian radio station. HCJB Global staff have been active in pioneering equipment and software for a form of digital radio broadcasting called DRM.\n\nAfter nearly 80 years of shortwave broadcasting from Ecuador, Radio Station HCJB ended the remaining regional shortwave transmissions on September 30, 2009. The international transmitter site in Pifo was dismantled to make way for the city of Quito's new airport. According to HCJB Global President Wayne Pederson, the change was made because, “the way people consume media has changed, so we have the opportunity to change to delivery systems such as satellite, AM/FM and the Internet. The closing of shortwave in Latin America is strategic because of the planting of local radio stations across the region and around the world. These stations are staffed and programmed by local Christians who can speak to the culture in their own communities.” HCJB Global's focus is now on “radio planting”—assisting local Christian ministries in beginning implementing their own Christian radio ministry. Worldwide, more than 350 local stations have been assisted in this type of endeavor, including nearly 60 stations in Latin America alone. Although the historic station and transmitter sites in Ecuador will no longer operate on the shortwave bands, Shortwave broadcasts continue from HCJB Global Australia's site in Kununurra, Australia and from commercial broadcast sites and partner ministry broadcast sites around the world. HCJB can still be heard on 6050 kHz from Mt. Pichincha, near Quito, with Spanish and indigenous languages of Ecuador. The double dipole (CT2/1/0.3) antenna is designed to cover only Ecuador, but the 5 kW signal was heard worldwide from time to time. With the replacement of the 40 year old 5 kW transmitter with a new 1 kW solid state in 2017, it became even more of a challenge for DX listeners but is still heard within Ecuador.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854094", "title": "Toronto Maple Leafs (semi-pro baseball)", "text": "Toronto Maple Leafs (semi-pro baseball)\n\nThe Toronto Maple Leafs are a team of the Intercounty Baseball League, based in Toronto, Ontario. They play their home games on \"Dominico Field\" at Christie Pits. They are also known colloquially as the Intercounty Maple Leafs or the Intercounty Leafs to disambiguate themselves from the Toronto Maple Leafs hockey team.\n\nThe Maple Leafs baseball team began play in 1969, the second season after the original Toronto Maple Leafs baseball team of the AAA International League moved to Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nIn their inaugural year, the new Leafs lost 23 games, finishing 18 games out of first place. But they have never ended a season that far back since then. They have been in first place 19 times in the subsequent years and have the best winning percentage of any active team in the League.\n\nThe team was owned by husband and wife Jack and Lynne Dominico for the first 40 years of its existence, but has since been owned exclusively by Jack after Lynne's passing on November 8, 2008. The Intercounty Baseball League Championship is also named in their honour, the Jack and Lynne Dominico Trophy.\n\nSince its inception the team has won the Jack and Lynne Dominico Trophy as Intercounty Baseball champions eight times, the first in 1972. During the 2002 season, the Leafs were undefeated at home, a first for the league. They also won the championship that year. They have also achieved many individual awards and All-Star nominations.\n\n\nCurrent roster (2014):\n\nFormer Major League Baseball player Pete Orr once played for the Intercounty Leafs as did former Toronto Blue Jays outfielder Rich Butler (2001–2002). Rich's brother, Rob Butler, who was also a former Toronto Blue Jays outfielder, also played with the Leafs (2001–2005), as did former Toronto Blue Jays pitcher Paul Spoljaric (2002–2007).\n\n"}
{"id": "1854097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854097", "title": "Charles Lloyd (jazz musician)", "text": "Charles Lloyd (jazz musician)\n\nCharles Lloyd (born March 15, 1938) is an American jazz musician. Though he primarily plays tenor saxophone and flute, he has occasionally recorded on other reed instruments, including alto saxophone and the Hungarian tárogató. Lloyd's band since 2007 includes pianist Jason Moran, bassist Reuben Rogers, and drummer Eric Harland.\n\nCharles Lloyd grew up in Memphis and was exposed to blues, gospel and jazz. He is of African, Cherokee, Mongolian, and Irish ancestry. He was given his first saxophone at the age of 9 and was riveted by 1940s radio broadcasts by Charlie Parker, Coleman Hawkins, Lester Young, Billie Holiday and Duke Ellington. His early teachers included pianist Phineas Newborn, Jr. and saxophonist Irvin Reason. His closest childhood friend was trumpeter Booker Little. As a teenager Lloyd played jazz with saxophonist George Coleman, Harold Mabern, and Frank Strozier, and was a sideman for Johnny Ace, Bobby \"Blue\" Bland, Howlin' Wolf and B.B. King.\n\nIn 1956 Lloyd left Memphis for Los Angeles to earn a degree in music at the University of Southern California, where he studied with Halsey Stevens, whose speciality was Bartók. At night, he played in jazz clubs with Ornette Coleman, Billy Higgins, Scott LaFaro, Don Cherry, Charlie Haden, Eric Dolphy, Bobby Hutcherson and other leading west coast jazz artists. He also was a member of the Gerald Wilson big band.\n\nIn 1960 Lloyd was invited to become music director of Chico Hamilton's group when Eric Dolphy left to join Charles Mingus's band. The Hungarian guitarist Gábor Szabó, bassist Albert \"Sparky\" Stinson, and trombonist Charles Bohanan soon joined Lloyd in the band. Hamilton's albums on Impulse!, \"Passin' Thru\" and \"Man from Two Worlds\", featured music arranged and written almost entirely by Lloyd. He collaborated with Nigerian drummer Babatunde Olatunji, with whom he played when he wasn't on the road with Hamilton. He joined the Cannonball Adderley Sextet in 1964, and performed with Nat Adderley, Joe Zawinul, Sam Jones and Louis Hayes. For two years he remained with Cannonball Adderley, whom he credits in his own development as a leader.\n\nIn 1964 Lloyd signed with CBS Records and began to record as a leader. His Columbia recordings, \"Discovery!\" (1964), and \"Of Course, Of Course\" (1965), featured Roy Haynes and Tony Williams on drums, Richard Davis and Ron Carter on bass, Gabor Szabo on guitar and Don Friedman on piano, and led to his being voted \"Down Beat\" magazine's \"New Star.\" He was also one of the well known and notable supporting musicians of The Beach Boys Live Performances. \"Of Course, Of Course\" was reissued on Mosaic Records in 2006.\n\nIn New York in 1966, Lloyd formed a quartet with drummer Jack DeJohnette, pianist Keith Jarrett and bassist Cecil McBee. Their 1966 album \"Forest Flower\" was one of the most successful jazz recordings of the mid-1960s, building an audience of rock as well as jazz fans. The Quartet toured across America and Europe. In 1967 Lloyd was voted \"Jazz Artist of the Year\" by \"DownBeat\" magazine.\n\nLloyd is given credit for anticipating world music by incorporating music from other cultures into his compositions, as early as the late 1950s. He describes his music as having \"danced on many shores\". Peter Watrous stated, \"Lloyd has come up with a strange and beautiful distillation of the American experience, part abandoned and wild, part immensely controlled and sophisticated.\"\n\nDespite recording several albums during the 1970s and occasionally appearing as a sideman, he practically disappeared from the jazz scene. During the 1970s Lloyd played extensively with the Beach Boys both on their studio recordings and as a member of their touring band. He was a member of Celebration, a band composed of members of the Beach Boys' touring band as well as Mike Love and Al Jardine. Celebration released two albums.\n\nLloyd returned to the jazz world in 1981 when he toured with Michel Petrucciani. British jazz critic Brian Case called Lloyd's return \"one of the events of the 1980s.\" The group produced a special edition cassette, \"Night Blooming Jasmine\", and two live records, \"Montreux 82\" and \"A Night in Copenhagen\", which also features Bobby McFerrin. After the tour, Lloyd again retreated to Big Sur.\n\nIn 1986, after being hospitalized with a nearly fatal medical condition, Lloyd rededicated himself to music. When he regained his strength in 1988 he formed a new quartet with Swedish pianist Bobo Stenson. When Lloyd returned to the Montreux Festival in 1988, Swiss critic Yvan Ischer wrote: \"To see and hear Charles Lloyd in concert is always an event, not only because this saxophonist has been at quite a few crossroads, but also because he seems to hold an impalpable truth which makes him a thoroughly original musician...This is what we call grace.\"\n\nIn 1989 Lloyd made his first recording for ECM Records, \"Fish Out of Water\". Manfred Eicher, ECM's founder and producer, compared the recording to a Giacometti painting, saying, \"I really believe this is the refined essence of what music should be. All the meat is gone, only the bones remain.\" From 1989, Lloyd toured and recorded for ECM. Noteworthy albums include \"Canto\", \"Voice in the Night\", \"The Water Is Wide\" (featuring Brad Mehldau, John Abercrombie, Larry Grenadier and Billy Higgins), \"Lift Every Voice\" (featuring Geri Allen), and the live \"Rabo de Nube\" (with Jason Moran).\n\nLloyd's albums for ECM contain elements of world music and experimentation, as in the duets on \"Which Way Is East\" with his longtime friend, Billy Higgins.\n\n\"Mirror\", his second recording with the New Quartet (2010), has been called a \"Charles Lloyd classic.\" \"Rabo de Nube\", also on ECM, captured the quartet \"live\" at its inception, and was voted No. 1 recording for the 2008 \"JazzTimes\" Reader's and Critic's Poll.\n\nLloyd collaborated with the classical Greek singer, Maria Farantouri, for a concert at the Herodion Theater at the Acropolis. \"Ta Nea\", a newspaper in Athens, stated \"Music has no borders...The audience was filled with a Dionysian ecstasy. While the music had reminiscences of a Hypiros fair, at the same time it took you to the heart of New York City.\" This concert was recorded and \"Athens Concert\" was released by ECM in 2011.\n\nLloyd celebrated his 75th birthday in 2013 with concerts in the Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan Museum and the Kennedy Center Concert Hall. On June 25, 2014 it was announced that Lloyd will receive the NEA Jazz Masters Award 2015. Lloyd was the Honoree at the 2014 Monterey Jazz Festival Jazz Legends Gala, hosted by Herbie Hancock. Lloyd was the recipient of the 2014 Alfa Jazz Fest International Music Award. In January 2015, it was announced that Lloyd had signed with Blue Note Records. \"Wild Man Dance\", a live recording of a long-form suite commissioned by the Jazztopad Festival in Wroclaw, Poland, was released in April 2015. Lloyd was presented with an honorary Doctor of Music degree from the Berklee College of Music in a ceremony at the Umbria Jazz Festival in July 2015. In 2016, Lloyd was inducted into the Memphis Music Hall of Fame.\n\nLloyd lives in Southern California with his wife, Dorothy Darr.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854100", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854100", "title": "Felix Aylmer", "text": "Felix Aylmer\n\nSir Felix Edward Aylmer Jones, OBE (21 February 1889 – 2 September 1979), known as Felix Aylmer, was an English stage actor who also appeared in the cinema and on television. Aylmer made appearances in films with comedians such as Will Hay and George Formby.\n\nFelix Aylmer was born in Corsham, Wiltshire, the son of Lilian (Cookworthy) and Lieutenant-Colonel Thomas Edward Aylmer Jones. He was educated at King James's Grammar School, Almondbury, near Huddersfield, where he was a boarder from 1897 to 1900, Magdalen College School, and Exeter College, Oxford, where he was a member of Oxford University Dramatic Society (OUDS). He trained under the Victorian-era actress and director Rosina Filippi before securing his first professional engagement at the London Coliseum in 1911. He appeared in the world premiere of \"The Farmer's Wife\" by Eden Phillpotts at the Birmingham Repertory Theatre in 1917.\n\nHe acted with Sir Laurence Olivier in Shakespearean films, appearing as Polonius in \"Hamlet\" (1948), and often played wise old men, such as Merlin in \"Knights of the Round Table\" (1953). He played the Archbishop of Canterbury in the film adaptation of \"Becket\" (1964), with Richard Burton and Peter O'Toole and gave elocution lessons to the young Audrey Hepburn.\n\nHis memorable style of delivery—dignified and learned— was frequently mimicked by comedians such as Peter Sellers and Kenneth Williams. Indeed, as dramatist and barrister John Mortimer noted, the mannerisms Aylmer brought to bear in his roles came to be imitated in real life by judges on the bench. Williams observed that an impersonation of Aylmer was a speciality of a colleague during his days with ENSA, the Armed Forces Entertainment Association, but he was certain that none of the troops knew who was being impersonated.\n\nAylmer was President of Equity from 1950 to 1969. He was made an Officer of the Order of the British Empire in the 1950 King's Birthday Honours and knighted in the 1965 Queen's Birthday Honours.\n\nHe was also the narrator in the original version (and recobbled cut) of Richard Williams' unfinished animated project, \"The Thief and the Cobbler\".\n\nAt the age of 80 Felix Aylmer played a villain in an episode of \"Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased)\" entitled \"It's Supposed to be Thicker than Water\". His last major screen role was as the Abbot in the sitcom \"Oh, Brother!\", opposite Derek Nimmo (1968–70). He appeared as a doctor in an episode of the TV series \"Jason King\" called \"If It's Got To Go, It's Got To Go\" in 1972, at the age of 83. Aylmer died in a nursing home, aged 90, in Pyrford, Surrey in 1979.\n\nHe married Cecily Minnie Jane Byrne during the First World War, and they had three children.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854107", "title": "Somerset Coal Canal", "text": "Somerset Coal Canal\n\nThe Somerset Coal Canal (originally known as the Somersetshire Coal Canal) was a narrow canal in England, built around 1800. Its route began in basins at Paulton and Timsbury, ran to nearby Camerton, over two aqueducts at Dunkerton, through a tunnel at Combe Hay, then via Midford and Monkton Combe to Limpley Stoke where it joined the Kennet and Avon Canal. This link gave the Somerset coalfield (which at its peak contained 80 collieries) access east toward London. The longest arm was long with 23 locks. From Midford an arm also ran via Writhlington to Radstock, with a tunnel at Wellow.\n\nA feature of the canal was the variety of methods used at Combe Hay to overcome height differences between the upper and lower reaches: initially by the use of caisson locks; when this method failed an inclined plane trackway; and finally a flight of 22 conventional locks.\n\nThe Radstock arm was never commercially successful and was replaced first with a tramway in 1815 and later incorporated into the Somerset and Dorset Joint Railway. The Paulton route flourished for nearly 100 years and was very profitable, carrying high tonnages of coal for many decades; this canal helped carry the fuel that powered the nearby city of Bath.\n\nBy the 1880s, coal production declined as the various pits either ran out of coal or were flooded and then closed. In 1896 the main pump at Dunkerton, which maintained the canal water level, failed. The resultant lowering in level meant that only small loads could be transported, which reduced revenue, thus the canal company could not afford a replacement pump.\n\nThe canal became disused after 1898 and officially closed in 1902, being sold off to the various railway companies who were expanding their networks.\n\nIn September 2014, restoration work began on the canal section from Paulton to Radford, with the aim of restoring the entire canal to navigation in the future. The largest canal drydock in England has been revealed at Paulton; culverts and bridges nearby are being reinstated or rebuilt; and about of canal from Paulton to Radford has been in water since mid-2015.\n\nIn 1763 coal was discovered in Radstock and mining began in the area, but transport was a major problem because of the poor state of the roads. This cost and the potential for cheaper delivery of coal from south Wales via the Monmouthshire Canal led to the proposal for a canal which could transport the coal to Bath and Wiltshire. Initial surveys were conducted during 1793 by William Jessop and William Smith under the direction of John Rennie who presented the report on 14 October 1793 estimating the cost of construction of the canal at £80,000. Smith, who also worked at the Mearns Pit at High Littleton, made the original observations leading to his important stratification theory by observing the dips in the geological strata through which the canal was cut. Smith became Surveyor to the company, but was dismissed in April 1799, apparently because he had used his position as surveyor to buy a local house at advantageous terms. He then set himself up in a private practice in Bath but was re-engaged by the company in 1811, to provide advice when repairs became necessary to the canal bed.\nThe canal was authorised by an Act of Parliament entitled \"An Act for making and maintaining a navigable Canal, with certain Railways and Stone Roads, from several Collieries in the county of Somerset, to communicate with the intended Kennet and Avon Canal, in the parish of Bradford, in the county of Wilts\" of 1794, and further detailed surveys were carried out by Robert Whitworth and John Sutcliffe, who was then appointed as chief engineer.\n\nIn May 1795, tenders were invited for the first section to be built from the meadows near Goosehard (or Gooseyard) near Paulton to Hopyard in the parish of Camerton. In June 1795 a contractor, Houghton & Son from Shropshire, started the terminus at Paulton meadows using local labour. This first section of the canal was completed on Monday 1 October 1798; the first load of coal carried on the canal was delivered to Bath via Dunkerton. Some 14 collieries at Timsbury and Paulton were connected to their respective basins in the meadow terminus by tramways; this required the construction of three tramway bridges over the Cam brook. A further bridge at Upper Radford was required over the canal; at this point tramways connected the Withy Mills and Radford workings. The course of the Cam brook was modified at various places to protect the canal from erosion. In 1799 William Whitmore and his partner, Norton, offered to build a balance (or geometrical) lift without payment, on condition that if successful they were to have £17,300 and a royalty of 4 pence per ton of goods passed.\n\nThe design of the caisson lock at Combe Hay was not a success: on 15 February 1798 the first descent failed. Mr Weldon (the inventor) made one successful descent on 7 June and said \"I will undertake to pass 1,500 tons of goods through the lock in 12 hrs\". Tenders were invited on 28 June for further constructions. Two more attempts to use the lock took place on 11 April and 2 May, but only the latter was successful. By 22 August 1799 the second rebuilding of the caisson had been abandoned. It was replaced by three locks and an inclined plane trackway, but the trackway was not successful either, and the company proposed to raise more money to finance the building of a flight of 19 locks to replace it, the use of which would incur an additional toll of one shilling per ton on all traffic. This was vigorously opposed by the owners of the Kennet and Avon Canal and the Wilts and Berks Canal, on the grounds that the price of coal to their customers would be too high. After negotiation, the company obtained a new Act of Parliament on 30 April 1802, which authorised the formation of a separate body called \"The Lock Fund of the Somerset Coal Canal Company\", with powers to raise the sum of £45,000. The money was raised by the Kennet and Avon, the Wilts and Berks and the Somerset Coal Canal each contributing £15,000, and the one shilling surcharge was to be levied until the capital had been repaid, after which it would cease. The act set the tonnage rates to be charged:\n\nFractions of a Mile to pay for Half a Mile, and of a Ton as a Quarter of a Ton; Rates for Wharfage to be determined by the Company. In addition to the above Rates, One Shilling per Ton is paid on all Goods to the Lock Fund, which also receives Three Farthings per Ton from the Coal Canal company.\n\nThe boats were weighed at Midford, where a weigh house was built in 1831. Boats were floated into a one-ended lock, the gate closed and the water drained. This left the boat resting on a cradle suspended by angled rods attached to a beam which took the weight of the boat. One-pound weights were then added to a pan, with one pound being equivalent to one hundredweight (), until the system was in equilibrium, then the weight was recorded. The weigh house at Midford was one of only four known to have been built in England and Wales.\nThe canal opened in 1805 and was used for passenger traffic as well as coal. In 1814 the Benedictine monks who came to Downside Abbey are said to have used the canal for the last stage of their journey. Another cargo carried by the canal was limestone from Combe Down. The peak level of cargo carried was in 1838 at 138,403 tons resulting in over £17,000 of tolls being paid. Cargoes of over 100,000 tons were common until the 1870s when the decline in output of coal from the various Somerset coalpits, along with competition from the railways, dramatically reduced the canal's profitability. When the main pump at Dunkerton failed it was not replaced and there was not sufficient water for continual operation of the locks. The canal went into liquidation in 1894; it closed in 1898 and was finally abandoned in 1904 when it was sold to the Great Western Railway for £2,000, and used as a branch of the Bristol and North Somerset Railway. The closure caused problems across the Somerset coalfield especially to the pits along the Paulton branch, which had relied on the canal for transportation.\n\nWhen the Radstock branch was constructed, it was intended to link it to the main line of the Paulton branch at Midford, which was at a lower level at this point. The Lock Fund created in 1802 was to have paid for the construction of the locks, but because there was little regular traffic on the branch, the company built one lock, an aqueduct over the Midford Brook, and a short tramway to bridge the gap. This contributed to the economic failure of the branch, and its replacement by a tramway in 1815. The tramway was laid along the former canal's towpath. It was single-line with passing places every , and was originally laid using cast iron plates on stone block sleepers, but was relaid using wrought iron plates.\n\nData from Jim Shead's Waterways Information.\n\nThe fall over the route is , which meant problems with supplying adequate water. The Cam brook was an inadequate source of water above Camerton, and the mills along it had water rights. Each narrow boat travelling through the series of locks (22 of them each deep) with a 25-ton load of coal caused 85 tons of water to be discharged into the brook below the locks. As a result, the canal was designed with all 22 locks in one flight near Combe Hay and a pumping engine to raise water from the Cam; this was the first canal to depend entirely on pumping.\n\nA potential solution to the water supply problem was the use of caisson locks as proposed by Robert Weldon, three of which could replace the 22 conventional locks, because it wasted no water, but the technology had only been tried in a one-third scale prototype. Each lock was long and deep and contained a closed wooden box which could take a barge. This box moved up and down in the deep pool of water, which never left the lock. The box was demonstrated to the Prince Regent (later George IV), but had engineering problems and was never successful commercially or built elsewhere.\n\nIt was temporarily replaced with an inclined plane by Benjamin Outram who had successfully installed inclined planes at the Peak Forest Canal in Derbyshire, whilst 22 locks and a Boulton & Watt Steam Pumping Station, capable of lifting 5,000 tons of water in 12 hours, were built to the latest design with metal plate clad wooden gates.\n\nThe two images show a spillway drain from 1796 (uncovered in 2009–10) at Upper Midford, a location where a caisson to take the canal from the level to the level at Midford Aqueduct was proposed.\n\nEach caisson would have had such a drain for maintenance purposes over the exit arch made to the same dimensions. The following extract from the \"Bath Herald\" newspaper provides the details of the chosen sites:\n\n\"14 Jun 1798 Travel: Somerset coal canal – caisson cisterns to be formed at Combe Hay & nr. Midford. Sealed proposals reqd. on embanking & excavation with the masonry; or each separately – send to sub-committee, Waldegrave Arms, Radstock 20 Jul Plans & specs. on appl.\"\n\nFor further Newspaper articles see \n\nlocated between the villages of Paulton and Timsbury was the terminus of the northern branch of the Somerset Coal Canal and was a central point for at least 15 collieries around Paulton, Timsbury and High Littleton, which were connected to the canal by tramroads. Timsbury basin was some to the west of Paulton basin.\n\nOn the northern side of Timsbury basin was the terminus for the tramroads which served Old Grove, Prior's, Tyning and Hayeswood pits, with a branch line to Amesbury and Mearns pits. Parts of this line were still in use in 1873, probably all carrying horse-drawn wagons of coal. Tramroads on the southern side of the Paulton basin served Brittens, Littleborrok, Paulton Ham, Paulton Hill, Simons Hill terminating at Salisbury Colliery. In addition the Paulton Foundry used this line. The entire line was disused by 1871 as were the collieries it served.\n\nThe area has been designated as an 'area of special architectural or historic interest, the character or appearance of which it is desirable to preserve or enhance' under section 69 of the Planning (Listed Buildings and Conservation Areas) Act 1990.\n\nThe first railway to affect the canal was the Bristol and North Somerset Railway's Frome to Radstock line completed in 1854 which took traffic away from the tramway. It finally closed in 1874 with the Somerset and Dorset Railway's extension to Bath, built along its route from Radstock to Midford. Another branch line was constructed in 1882 from Hallatrow to Camerton, running alongside the canal for the last of its route.\n\nThe Great Western Railway built a railway line (the Bristol and North Somerset Railway) over some parts of the canal route from Limpley Stoke to Camerton, where it joined the existing 1882 branch line from Hallatrow to Camerton. This opened in 1910 for passenger and goods traffic, closed for the First World War, re-opened after the war, ran for passengers only for two more years in the mid-1920s and finally closed to all traffic in the 1950s. The line was used in the 1950s Ealing comedy film \"The Titfield Thunderbolt\".\n\nThe route of the canal lies in a largely agricultural area, dotted with small villages linked by minor roads. Several stretches of the Paulton and Timsbury basins branch are easily visible, and various stretches and features were surveyed in 2014. Full restoration of the entire length from Paulton to Dundas is being explored. Four locks on the original canal route at Combe Hay have been buried; one by a railway embankment, and three overfilled by with building waste since the 1960s. It may no longer be feasible to reinstate the original locks 16, 17, 18 and 19 structures for this section.\n\nAt Upper Midford the canal is blocked entirely at the accommodation bridge by the high embankment of the railway that crosses it. Most of the canal features along the entire route are on private land but the towpath survives in places as a right of way, while the later railway between Midford to Wellow has been surfaced to form part of National Cycle Route 24. It has been proposed that a statue, commissioned by Sustrans, of William Smith, the father of English Geology, will be sited next to the path on the line of the canal commemorating his work as its surveyor and his recognition of the significance of rock strata.\n\nThe stretch at Brassknocker Basin where the canal joins the Kennet and Avon at Dundas Aqueduct was restored during the 1980s and is now a thriving marina with moorings. Excavations of the old stop lock (at the junction with the Kennet and Avon Canal) showed that this had originally been a broad () lock that at some point was narrowed to by moving the lock wall.\n\nWork started in 2013 to reveal and excavate the drydock next to the eastern Paulton Basin. This drydock appears to be the largest drydock anywhere on the canal system in England, being about wide and long, large enough for three full-length narrowboats to be worked on at the same time.\n\nThe drainage culvert at the southeast corner of the drydock was rebuilt in December 2013, and the drydock itself completely excavated in April 2014. The entrance to the drydock, at the western end, was surmounted by a bridge, partially demolished in 2002 but rebuilt during 2014.\n\nExcavations began in May 2014 at Terminus Bridge; the arch was missing and the abutments were found to be in poor condition; an earth bund between the abutments carried the public footpath and stopped the water draining from the Paulton and Timsbury Basins. A new earth bund was installed about west of Terminus Bridge to stop the water and allow work to continue on the bridge.\n\nDuring excavations a drainage culvert was discovered about west of Terminus bridge. Work resumed in September and November 2014 to batter and reshape the canal embankments. Excess topsoil was removed and the towpath reinstated on the stretch to the east from Terminus bridge for about . On the same stretch a retaining wall was discovered in the south embankment continuing for about , possibly built as a repair to a weak section of canal banking. Vertical infills of white clay have been used along this wall.\n\nThe canal has been studied for many years with exploration and restoration work being undertaken in Wellow and elsewhere. Particular effort, so far unsuccessful, has been put into trying to find the site of the second and third caisson locks at Combe Hay. In October 2006 a grant of £20,000 was obtained from the Heritage Lottery Fund, by the Somersetshire Coal Canal Society in association with Bath & North East Somerset Council and the Avon Industrial Buildings Trust to carry out a technical study on one of the locks and associated structures at Combe Hay. Many of the locks and associated workings are listed buildings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854110", "title": "Skin Yard (album)", "text": "Skin Yard (album)\n\nSkin Yard is the first studio album by the band Skin Yard. In January 1987, 1400 vinyl copies were released by C/Z Records, mostly on translucent sand-colored vinyl, the rest on standard black vinyl to be played by radio DJs. This recording was the first engineering project by Jack Endino who was also the band's guitarist. Endino went on to record many of the most successful grunge records in Seattle.\n\nAll of the lyrics were written by vocalist Ben McMillan. Bassist Daniel House designed the album layout, and Beth Hendrickson painted artwork for the front cover. Performance photographs on the back cover were taken by Cam Garrett. The album was copyrighted in 1986 by Skin Yard, but not issued until January 1987.\n\nIn 1992, the album was re-released on CD by Cruz Records with one song removed and seven songs added, and at the same time it was released again on vinyl with fewer songs than the CD. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854112", "title": "Khorramabad", "text": "Khorramabad\n\nKhorramabad ( or KhorMoa as local say - also Romanized as Khorramābād, Khoramabad, Khurramabad, Khorram Abad and occasionally Khur Ramābād) is a city and the capital of Lorestan Province, Iran. At the time of the 2006 census, its population was 328,544, in 75,945 families. Khorramabad is situated on the Zagros Mountains. Khorramabad Airport is 3 km south of the city proper.\n\nThe city population is predominantly Lur and Lak, although the two groups are closely related.\nAlthough not a major tourist destination, it is quite scenic and possesses several attractions, such as five Paleolithic cave-dwelling sites. In the city center, a tall citadel called Falak-ol-Aflak (\"The Heaven of Heavens\"), a relic of the Sassanid era, is now a nationally popular museum.\n\nEconomically, it is the regional base of the agricultural industry.\n\n\"KhorMoah\" is the way local call it. \"KhorMoa\" in Lori and Laki, local languages, means the place that you can see the sunset. \n\n\"KhorMoah\" has been translated as \"Khorram Abad\" in Farsi which means the green and beautiful place.\n\nModern Persian -âbâd, meaning \"settlement\" or \"abode\", derives from Middle Persian āpāt (\"populous\"). However, according to linguist Sasha Lubotsky, the Persian term ābād might derive from Proto-Iranian *āpāta (\"protected\"), rooting from Proto-Indo-European *peh₂- (\"to protect\"). Thus, it can mean \"protected settlement\".\n\nDuring the late third millennium B.C. and early second millennium B.C., when Simashki sovereigns was ruling on Elam, for the first time a fort was built on the peak of a natural cliff to protect the city against its enemies. Sixty hundred years later, Ellipi kings built a new fort on the ruins of the old one. Simash was the name of the place. It was the capital of Simashki dynasty. \n\nIn the texts of historians Shapurkhast has been considered one of the most important and developed cities of the region during this period. Falak-ol-Aflak castle ( Dež-e Shāpūr-Khwāst) was built by Shapur I the Sasanid.\n\nProbably in the late seventh century CE, Shapurkhast was destroyed and the people of Shapurkhast moved to the western part of Falak-ol-Aflak Castle, which offered plenty of water as well as safety.\n\nHamdallah Mustawfi writes: Khorramabad was a beautiful city, now it is destroyed.\n\nThe founder of the Hazaraspid dynasty was Abu Tahir ibn Muhammad, a descendant of the Shabankara chieftain Fadluya. Fadluya was initially a commander of the Salghurids of Fars and was appointed governor of Kuhgiluya but eventually gained independence in Luristan and extended his realm as far as Isfahan. He assumed the prestigious title of \"atabeg\".\n\nDuring the reign of the Safavid dynasty, Khorramabad was the administrative center of Luristan Province. In the wake of the demise of the Safavids, after the signing of the Treaty of Constantinople (1724) with Imperial Russia, the Ottomans conquered Khorramabad on 6 September 1725.\nIn this period, the city of Khorramabad was limited to environs of Falak-ol-Aflak Castle. This period was the beginning of a migration of people from small villages into Khorramabad. The increase in population led to the expansion of the city and the creation of new districts.\n\nKhorramabad Municipality was formed in 1913 and the first city council, consisting of seven members, was formed in 1916.\n\nKhorramAbad has mild and semi-humid Mediterranean climate with high amount of rainfall during spring and winter. It is the sixth cities in Iran having high level of annual rainfall. The city is located inside a valley and has been surrounded by mountains. The two main mountains around the city are EsbiKouh (SefidKouh) and Makhmalkouh. The city is rich of underground resources and five main springs passes through it. It has one river called as Gelal or KhorramRud (new name). \n\nKhorramabad has what is classed under the Köppen climate classification as a Hot-summer Mediterranean climate (Csa) climate. Its elevation is 1147.8 above sea level. Average annual precipitation is 511.06 and its average annual temperature is 17.21 Celsius. \n\nShapurKhast Castle, Dež-e Shāpūr-Khwāst, Falak-ol-Aflak Castle, known in ancient times as Dezbaz as well as Shapur-Khast, is one of the most impressive castles in Iran. It is situated on the top of a large hill with the same name within the city of Khorramabad, the regional capital of Lorestan province. The Khorramabad River runs past the eastern and south-western side of the ShapurKhast hill providing the fortress with an element of natural protection. Today, the western and northern sides of the hill are bordered by the residential districts of Khorramabad.\nThis gigantic structure was built during the Sassanid era (226–651). It has been known by a number of names since it was built over 1800 years ago. Recorded names have referred to it as Shapur-Khast fortress, Dezbaz, Khorramabad castle, and ultimately the Falak ol-Aflak Castle.\nThe foundations of the actual castle measure approximately 300 meters by 400 meters. The height of the entire structure, including the hill, reaches up to 40 meters above the surrounding area. This space is divided into four large halls, and their associated rooms and corridors. The rooms all surround two courtyards with the following measurements: the first courtyard measures 31×22.50 meters and the second 29x21 meters. . When originally built the castle used to have 12 towers, but only 8 remain standing today. The building's entrance is situated towards the north, within the body of the north-western tower.\n\nFrom the initial day of erection the castle served a whole variety of purposes including political, military, governmental and social. Now, Dec. 2019, archaeology and anthropology museums are located inside the castle. Bronzes of Lorestan are among the interesting handmade objects inside the archaeology museum. This scarce monument has been inscribed on the National Heritage List under the registration number of 883.\n\nGerdab Sangi or Gerdaw Bardina is a cylindrical shape monument from Sassanid dynasty (224-651 CE) located in Takhti Square. The main construction materials are lime-mortar and rocks exploited from SefidKouh mountain. Encircling several springs, the edifice sits near the prehistoric Qamari Cave. The construction was once used for rationing and distributing potable and agricultural water among local population and farmers. Its surrounding cylindrical stone wall has a height of 10 meters and a diameter of 18 meters.\nThere are a few different-sized outlets in the wall for controlling the flow of water into a canal on the west of the structure. While originally there were 7 of such outlets, however, today only one is functional. This outlet measures 160 x 90 centimeters and opens and closes like a drawer. There is traces of another outlet which the water was flowing from it and was reaching to a stream called Nahre Naseri. The flowing water after a path of approximately 12 kilometers, would eventually made its way to a valley called Baba Abbas. The main interesting thing is the way that they have conducted the water to the stream. Gerdab Sangi has been inscribed on the National Heritage List in 1976.\nBrick Minaret is a cylindrical brick tower from Seljuq and Buyid dynasties located inside the ancient city of Shapur khast, south of Khorramabad. \n\nُThe Iranian minaret are combination of the Indian Stupa, commemorative columns, central Asia tradition of tower building for defensive and communication purposes. Brick Minaret of KhorramAbad was probably used as a guidepost for caravans that pass the city, i.e. communication purpose. \n\nThe current height of minaret is 29.45 meters. Since one of the windows of the minaret is located on top of it, undoubtedly its height was higher. A cylindrical column was built inside the minaret and through 99 spiral staircases around the column one can reach to the top of the minaret. The entrance is opened to the west and its characteristics are as follows: length: 80 cm, height: 220 cm. The minaret has six windows of different sizes. The windows spread the light into the dark corridor. Brick and mortar are its main construction material.\n\nThis monument has been inscribed on the national heritage list under registration number 1930.\n\nSang Nebeshteh (inscribed stone) is an engraved cubic shape monument with 3.54 m heights located at the eastern part of KhorramAbad city. It dates back to 1119 AD and Saljuq dynasty. It has been written in Kufic script and its subject is governmental rules of ShapurKhast, which is currently known as KhorramAbad city. The carved name of ShapurKhast city can be clearly seen on this monument. This name verifies the existence of ShapurKhast city during old days. It has been inscribed on the national heritage list.\n\nPole Gap is a Safavid multi-arch bridge passing through KhorramAbad city and located near to ShapurKhast castle. Its twenty arches except its breakwaters and piles are made from bricks and mortar. The height of bridge is about 18 meters. Some of its arches are in the underground of the shops in two sides of the bridge. The bridge is very similar to Si-o-se-pol at Isfahan.\nAbout fifty years ago, an inscription has been found inside one of the ruined arches. The inscription has two meters length and 85 centimeters height. Probably, it has been written to protect the bridge form evil eyes and natural phenomena. \n\nShapuri bridge has been constructed on KhorramAbad river (Gelal river) by the order of Shapur I during Sassanian period. It was built in the historic rout between Shapurkhast, Tarhan and Ctesiphon, the capital of Sassanian. Lorestan has more than 70 historical bridges and form this perspective is considered as the capital of ancient Iranian bridges. \n\nShapuri bridge has 312 meters length and elongated in the east-west direction. Some scholars believe that this bridge was the first gigantic bridge in Lorestan province and other bridges in the province has been built by inspiring from it. It has 28 arches and 27 piles, with surface are of 61 square meters. Currently, five of its arches are intact; the others have been destroyed by natural phenomena. The arches of the bridge are made in the form of a wishbone. The piles and breakwaters of the bridge are in the form of six lateral lozenges made of limestone. Probably the bridge also was used to distribute water. Materials of the bridge are river stones and stone chips in the arches and truncated stones in the piles. The bridge floor is paved in red block stones that have lost their square shape due to erosion. This attractive, huge bridge from Sassanid dynasty has been inscribed in the national heritage list under registration number 1058.\n\nAkhound Abu House is located in the historical texture of KhorramAbad city near to BabaTaher neighborhood and ShapurKhast castle.\n\nIt belonged to Mirza Mohsen Gazi, who was chief justice of the city during late Qajar and early Pahlavi dynasties.\n\nThe house is semi-introverted and is divided to winter and summer sections. The first one which is used during winter has two important rooms: Panjdari and Sedari. Panjdari is also called Shahneshin and was the most attractive room of the house. Muqarnas, Zigzag bricks (Khefteh-Rasteh), Golandaz are the main decoration of the house. The construction materials of the house are stone, brick, wood and mortar.\n\nCurrently, museum of Lorestan's handicrafts is located inside the house. Tickets to visit this house are free. This monument has been inscribed on the national heritage list under registration number 2432.\n\nKeeyow lake is a natural lake located in the Northwest of Khorramabad city. In 1975, It has been constructed by the order of Ali Mohammad Saki, the late mayor of KhorramAbad. This lake spans a seven-hectare area and has a depth of 3 to 7 meters. It is the sole natural lake in Iran which is located inside a city. The lake is an appropriate place for aquatic animals, native and migratory birds. The amusement park as well as other recreational facilities next to the lake enhances its aesthetic and \"geotouristic values\" . The main spring of the lake is located in the northern part of the lake and is supplied by aquifers from nearby mountains. Since the spring is a seasonal one, during winter the water is supplied from another permanent spring located under ShapurKhast castle, Golestan spring.\n\nDuring holidays many tourists and locals spend their leisure time in the amusement park or use other facilities inside a park located near to the lake, Keeyow Park. It is the most important park of the city. Everyday morning, many locals come to use the sporting facilities and/or do the hiking and running around the lake.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854116", "title": "Inside the Eye", "text": "Inside the Eye\n\nInside the Eye is the fifth and final album released by Skin Yard in 1993.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854120", "title": "Tony Harris", "text": "Tony Harris\n\nTony or Anthony Harris may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1854125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854125", "title": "2001 in Swedish football", "text": "2001 in Swedish football\n\nThe 2001 season in Swedish football, starting January 2001 and ending December 2001:\n\nPrint\n\nOnline\n"}
{"id": "1854129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1854129", "title": "Overbrook Park, Philadelphia", "text": "Overbrook Park, Philadelphia\n\nOverbrook Park is a neighborhood in the West Philadelphia section of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States. It was founded in the 1940s on the site of a former farm known as Supio's farm, offering new housing for returning GIs and their families. Overbrook Park remains a stable,safe, African-American middle-class neighborhood.\n\nOverbrook Park is bounded by Overbrook to the east, Penn Wynne to the north, Upper Darby to the south and west, and Havertown to the west. The main artery is Haverford Avenue which goes into Penn Wynne across City Avenue where it becomes Haverford Road. Haverford Avenue and 75th Street connect it to Lansdowne Avenue on the Overbrook side, which continues south through Upper Darby where it becomes State Road. Haverford Avenue, 76th Street, and 77th Street connect it to City Avenue on the Penn Wynne side. The neighborhood spans for approximately four city blocks west to east along City Avenue, and approximately ten smaller blocks north to south on either side of 76th Street. Overbrook Park has a public school named after Robert Eneas Lamberton, a former Republican mayor of Philadelphia. It was once a K-12 school and the only one of its kind in Philadelphia. Today it is a K-8 school. Lamberton School is located at 75th Street and Woodbine Avenue.\n\nOverbrook Park used to have a large Jewish population. There was an Orthodox and a Conservative synagogue. Most of the Jews have moved across City Avenue (U.S. 1) into neighboring Penn Wynne in Lower Merion Township. The Jewish community of both sides of the border are considered to be one unit and are connected by an eruv, a wire attached to the telephone and electric poles which allows religious Jews to carry things on Shabbat.\n\nThe Orthodox Congregation Beth Hamedrosh was founded in the late 1950s as a branch of Beth Hamedrosh HaGadol in West Philadelphia. The congregation moved to Penn Wynne in May 2007, after having purchased the site in 2000. The Building that housed Beth Hamedrosh is now Temple Kefarym, a Black Hebrew congregation which is now boarded up following a fire.\n\nThe Conservative Congregation Beth T'fillah, originally called Overbrook Park Congregation founded in 1948, closed down in the Fall of 2006 and merged with Temple Adath Israel in Merion, Lower Merion Township due to a lack of sufficient membership. The building that housed Beth T'fillah is now Overbrook Park Church of Christ.\n\nIn 1990, Overbrook Park had some 7,200 residents, mostly of Jewish, Italian and Irish origins. During the mid-1990s, the neighborhood started to become majority African American. By 2000, the neighborhood's population had become nearly 60% African American.. Today it is approximately 81% African American \n\nDespite the demographic change, there are still several kosher establishments in Overbrook Park, among them a kosher fish and produce store, a kosher bagel store, a kosher pizzeria, and a kosher bakery. As of late 2015 a new kosher sushi restaurant opened on Haverford Ave, but has since closed. You can also find traditional Philadelphia Hoagies at Ferrante's Meats and More and cheese steaks at Stacy's Pizza. \n\nIn 2017, Chabad of Penn Wynne and Congregation Beth Hamedrosh, formerly of Overbrook Park, were awarded a grant by The Kohelet Foundation to assist with promoting Overbrook Park as an affordable neighborhood for young Jewish families.\n\nOverbrook Park is the birthplace of actor Seth Green.\n\n\nFacebook page :https://www.facebook.com/OverbrookParkCivicAssociation\n"}
