{"id": "1818713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818713", "title": "George Woodard", "text": "George Woodard\n\nGeorge Woodard is an actor, musician, and dairy farmer in Waterbury Center Vermont. He experimented with acting in high school, taking part in high school and local summer stock plays and musicals, while rebuilding the family dairy business. Later, seeking to see what the acting \"thing\" was all about, he moved to Hollywood, California for approximately four years. During this time, he worked on low budget and student films, learning the mechanics of film production along with screenplay writing, and directing. He also delivered JAN-AL ATA grade flight cases to various rock and roll royalty...to pay the bills. The need for someone to lead the operation of the Woodard family farm brought him home to Vermont. He took over the dairy business and has been doing it ever since. His job of dairy farming mixed with his acting career resulted in his being featured in an article for Premiere Magazine.\n\nIn between milking twice a day, he found the time to be in films \"\", \"Ethan Frome\", \"My Mother's Early Lovers\", \"The Mudge Boy\", \"Mud Season\", , along with a few TV commercials. He also created his own home-grown variety show, The Ground Hog Opry, which combines Vermont-related political satire with songs written by Woodard and other members of the cast, including writing partner Charles \"Al\" Boright.\n\nIn 2010, Woodard wrote the screenplay, directed, edited and acted, along with a solid local cast for \"The Summer of Walter Hacks\", a coming of age story, set in the long forgotten rural New England of the 1950s. The film was shot in color, then transferred to black and white, a medium Woodard says, \"you can do things in black and white that just don't work in color...like darker shadows, high contrast starkness, and more.\" The Film has been successful on the independent film circuit and has been enjoyed by thousands. Due to a unique arrangement with some of the copyrighted content, originally the film could not legally be duplicated and was shown only to live audiences on a regional barnstorming effort by Woodard and producer Gerianne Smart.\n\nPlans for duplication are still being considered.\n\nHis major role in the 1994 film \"Time Chasers\", has been successfully lampooned by the popular \"Mystery Science Theater 3000\". A running gag in the episode is Mike and the Bots comically mimicking Woodard's voice.\n\nHe is also featured in two short children's films, \"Where the Garbage Goes\" (1997) and \"Road Construction Ahead\" (1991), which are part of the children's series Little Hardhats.\n"}
{"id": "1818716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818716", "title": "Doug Bentley", "text": "Doug Bentley\n\nDouglas Wagner \"Doug\" Bentley (September 3, 1916 – November 24, 1972) was a Canadian ice hockey left winger who played 13 seasons in the National Hockey League (NHL) for the Chicago Black Hawks and New York Rangers as part of a senior and professional career that spanned nearly three decades. He was named to four NHL All-Star Teams in his career and was the scoring leader in points and goals in 1942–43 and again in goals in 1943–44.\n\nBentley was one of six hockey playing brothers and at one point played with four of his brothers with the Drumheller Miners of the Alberta Senior Hockey League. He made NHL history when he played on the league's first all-brother line with Max and Reg in 1943. Injuries forced him out of the NHL in 1951, but he returned in 1953–54 to play one last season for the Rangers with Max. He spent several seasons as a player-coach for the Saskatoon Quakers, leading the team to the Pacific Coast Hockey League championship in 1952. Bentley was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in 1964.\n\nBentley was born March 1, 1916, in Delisle, Saskatchewan. He was the fifth of six boys and one of thirteen children. His father Bill was a native of Yorkshire, England, who emigrated to the United States as a child and became a speed skating champion in North Dakota before settling in Delisle. He became mayor and helped build the town's covered skating rink. All of the Bentley children were athletes, and all six brothers played hockey.\n\nBill Bentley believed that all six boys could have played in the National Hockey League (NHL), though responsibilities on the family farm resulted in the eldest four boys spending the majority of their careers playing senior hockey on the Canadian Prairies. Doug was a small, slender player, weighing only 145 lbs at the peak of his career, but he was an exceptionally fast skater and his father taught him to use his speed to avoid larger opponents. He learned his trade with his brothers as they constantly played street hockey in the summers and on the ice in the winters. Bentley's father flooded a sheet of ice that was the length of a regulation NHL hockey rink but much narrower, forcing the boys to develop the ability to maintain control of the puck while making fast, hard turns to reach the net.\n\nBentley's early career was spent with several senior teams throughout Saskatchewan. He first played in his hometown of Delisle for the Tigers hockey team in 1932–33 before playing a year in Saskatoon, then another in Regina before settling in Moose Jaw for three seasons beginning in 1935–36. He led the South-Saskatchewan Senior Hockey League in scoring in 1936–37 with 37 points and added another 14 in the playoffs, also leading the league. In 1937, Bentley, along with future Hall of Famer Elmer Lach attended the Toronto Maple Leafs training camp; both were rejected as too small for the National Hockey League. According to Lach, Conn Smythe, manager of the Leafs, saw Bentley and Lach and said \"They were sending me big guys from the West, but instead they’ve sent me peanuts.\" He moved to Alberta with brother Reg, and joined elder brothers Max, Wyatt and Roy with the Drumheller Miners of the Alberta Senior Hockey League (ASHL) for the 1938–39 season. When not playing hockey, Doug helped run a gas station that the family purchased in Drumheller.\n\nThe Chicago Black Hawks signed Bentley to a contract in the fall of 1939. He had previously been placed on the protected list of the Montreal Canadiens, meaning they were the only NHL team eligible to sign him to a contract. They subsequently dealt his NHL rights to the Boston Bruins for Vic Myles. When he and brother Max went to Boston for a tryout camp, Bruins' owner Art Ross declared them \"among the worst amateurs to come to my camp\". However, by the time Chicago signed him, Bentley had established himself as one of the top forwards on the prairies.\n\nBentley appeared in 39 games in his rookie campaign with Chicago, scoring 12 goals and 19 points. His brother Max joined him early in the 1941–42 season, and the pair were placed on a line together. After two years of development with the Black Hawks, Bentley emerged as the NHL's scoring leader in 1942–43 with 73 points, a total that tied Cooney Weiland's NHL record for points in a season. He was the first Black Hawks player to finish as the scoring leader, and finished second in voting for the Hart Trophy as most valuable player.\n\nWorld War II had decimated the rosters of all NHL teams, and with the Black Hawks searching for players, Max and Doug convinced the team to sign their brother Reg. The trio made history on January 1, 1943, when they became the first all-brother line the NHL had seen. Two nights later, Max and Doug assisted on Reg's first, and only, NHL goal. It is the only time in league history that a trio of family members recorded the goal and assists on a scoring play. While Max and Doug were established NHL stars, Reg played only 11 games in his NHL career.\n\nIn 1943–44, Bentley again led the NHL in goal scoring with 38, and was named a First Team All-Star at left wing for the second consecutive season. His career was briefly halted in 1944 when, after playing an exhibition game with Chicago in Canada prior to the 1944–45 season, Canadian officials refused to allow him to return to the United States. He was given permission by military authorities to return to his family farm for the duration of the war, and signed on to play with the Laura Beavers of the Saskatchewan Intermediate Hockey League. The Beavers went on to win the western Canadian intermediate championship, defeating a team from Canmore, Alberta, to capture the title.\n\nFollowing the war, Bentley returned to the Black Hawks where he was reunited with his brother Max. The brothers and Bill Mosienko formed a line in which each player was small and exceptionally fast; they were dubbed the \"Pony Line\" and emerged as one of the top scoring lines in the league. Max led the NHL in scoring with 61 points, while Doug scored 40 points in just 36 games for Chicago. He improved to 55 points in 1946–47 and was named a First Team All-Star for the third time. He played in the first All-Star Game on October 13, 1947, for the NHL All-Stars, who defeated the Toronto Maple Leafs, 4–3.\n\nThe Black Hawks, who never iced a strong lineup while Bentley played, made a significant trade early in the 1947–48 season. They sent Max Bentley and a prospect to the Toronto Maple Leafs in exchange for five players. The trade shocked Doug. He thought about retiring following the deal but felt he could give Chicago at least one more good season. He gave them several good seasons, finished the following three seasons with 57, 66 and 52 points respectively, was named to the Second All-Star Team in 1949, and appeared in four more All-Star Games in 1948, 1949, 1950 and 1951. Chicago's \"Herald American\" newspaper named him the city's top hockey player of the half-century in 1950.\n\nInjuries, including a pulled groin muscle, plagued Bentley in 1950–51 and limited him to 44 games. He played only eight games of the 1951–52 NHL season before the Black Hawks allowed him to return to Saskatchewan. He was loaned to the Saskatoon Quakers where he took on the role of player-coach for the Pacific Coast Hockey League (PCHL) team. Bentley appeared in 35 regular season games for the Quakers then scored 12 points in 13 games to lead the Quakers to the President's Cup championship.\n\nBentley remained with Saskatoon in 1952–53, appearing in all 70 league games for the Quakers. Following the season, the New York Rangers lured Bentley back to the NHL, acquiring his brother Max, then purchasing his rights from Chicago. In his first game with the Rangers, he scored a goal and three assists. He played 20 games with the Rangers, scoring 12 points, but returned to Saskatoon to coach the team in their playoffs once the Rangers' season ended. Bentley continued as Saskatoon's player-coach until 1955.\n\nIn the midst of the 1955–56 season, Bentley surprised his team by announcing his resignation as a coach. He initially agreed to continue as a player, but when the team announced as his replacement a player who was formerly subordinate to him as coach, Bentley felt it best to leave to avoid embarrassing his successor. The 39-year-old Bentley immediately received offers from other Western Hockey League (WHL) teams, including the New Westminster Royals. He chose to finish the season with the Brandon Regals.\n\nBentley did not play during the 1956–57 season, as he and Max chose instead to operate a new Saskatchewan Junior Hockey League team in Saskatoon. He first served as the team's manager, and after briefly playing with the WHL's Saskatoon/St. Paul Regals in 1957–58, became the head coach of the junior team. He remained in the position until 1961 when he left to become chief scout with the WHL's Los Angeles Blades for the 1961–62 season.\n\nHe was named an assistant coach midway through the year and even played when injuries forced players out of the lineup. Bentley moved on to become the player-coach of the Long Beach Gulls of the California Hockey League in 1962–63, opposing his brother Max who coached the Burbank Stars. He returned to his Saskatchewan home in 1964 to coach the senior Saskatoon Quakers for one season. He was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame that same year. He then moved to the Eastern Hockey League's Knoxville Knights in 1966–67, and finally the Edmonton Nuggets of the Western Canada Senior Hockey League in 1967–68.\n\nThroughout the 1950s, Bentley and his brothers played baseball for both their home town of Delisle and the Saskatoon Gems of the Saskatchewan and later Western Canada senior leagues. He played as an outfielder.\n\nBentley and his wife Betty had three daughters and one son. Their son, Doug Jr., was also a hockey player. Much of Doug Sr.'s time away from the rink was spent at the family farm near Delisle. The family operated a large farm, raising cattle and growing wheat. Bentley battled cancer in his later life, first requiring surgery in Edmonton in 1969. A second operation followed in 1970, but he died of the disease on November 24, 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818718", "title": "Agathius", "text": "Agathius\n\nSaint Agathius (Greek: Ακακιος; died 303), also known as Achatius or Agathonas or Acacius of Byzantium, according to Christian tradition, was a Cappadocian Greek centurion of the imperial army, martyred around 304.\n\nAgathius was arrested on charges for being a Christian by Tribune Firmus in Perinthus, Thrace, tortured and then brought to Byzantium where he was scourged and beheaded, being made a martyr because he would not renounce his Christian faith.\n\nThe date of his martyrdom is traditionally May 8, when his feast is observed.\n\nConstantine the Great built a church in his honor. His relics were relocated \"ca.\" 630 to a spring at Squillace, close by the Vivarium, the monastery founded in the previous century by Cassiodorus in the heel of Italy. He was known in Squillace as \"San Agario\". A relic of his arm was brought to Guardavalle in 1584 by the bishop of Squillace, Marcello Sirleto, hence Agathius' patronage of this city. Relics from Squillace were also brought to Cuenca and Ávila in Spain, where he is known as \"San Acato\".\n\nSt. Agathius is also venerated in Slovenia, where numerous churches and chapels are dedicated to him; this popular veneration goes back to the 16th century, when he was considered the patron saint of the fighters against the Ottoman Turks. For the same reason he became popular among the Maniots, inhabitants of the Mani Peninsula in Greece, who took up his confrontation of the Pagan Roman authorities as a symbol of their own long lasting resistance of the Ottoman Empire's rule.\n\nSt. Achatius is one of the Fourteen Holy Helpers or Auxiliary Saints.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818727", "title": "Oz Fox", "text": "Oz Fox\n\nRichard Alfonso Martinez (born June 18, 1961), better known by the stage name Oz Fox, is the lead guitarist of the Christian glam metal band Stryper. Martinez' high school friends called him \"Oz\" in honor of Ozzy Osbourne due to his ability to emulate the vocals of Osbourne while playing Black Sabbath covers in his pre-Stryper days. He was recruited by the Sweet brothers in 1983 to form what would become Stryper. As a founding member of the band, Fox recorded and toured with Stryper until the band's first break up in 1992 but has since rejoined the band.\n\nFox was born on June 18, 1961 in Whittier, California, to Richard Joseph Martinez and Jessie Maria Martinez. Having been influenced by artists from many styles of music including country, Fox's style can best be described as having been heavily influenced by the style pioneered by Eddie Van Halen; Fox would often warm up by playing Van Halen's \"I'm The One\" note for note before Stryper shows. He joined the LA guitarists trend of heavily incorporating tapping, sweeping, string skipping and wild tremolo use along with peers such as George Lynch, Warren DeMartini, Jake E. Lee, Mick Mars, and Tony Palacios. Fox recorded half of the guitar solos with Stryper while additionally providing background vocals for the group. He later took up the main vocal duties for a period of four months in 1992 after founding member Michael Sweet decided to leave the band and pursue a solo career. With Fox on lead vocals, the trio did two short tours in Europe.\n\nAfter Stryper, Fox played in several projects, including his own band, SinDizzy, where he played rhythm guitar and sang lead vocals. SinDizzy, which released an album in 1998 titled \"He's Not Dead\", included former Stryper bassist Tim Gaines, drummer John Bocanegra and LA guitarist Bobby MacNeil. SinDizzy was a departure for Fox as it allowed him to explore his writing and playing from a much different perspective than in his prior work. SinDizzy would be put on hiatus however due to Fox and Gaines being asked to rejoin Stryper for their reunion in 2003 in support of the album \"7\" after the widespread acceptance and excitement generated by the first 'Stryper Expo'. Though Gaines would elect to leave the band, Fox, together with brothers Robert and Michael Sweet and newcomer bassist Tracy Ferrie and later Perry Richardson, is still recording and touring with the group. Fox's latest work is on Stryper's \"God Damn Evil\" album released in April 2018.\n\nFox has hosted \"Rewind\" on JCTV.\n\nIn 2006, he joined the band Bloodgood and has performed at several Christian rock festivals with them.\n\nFox has helped to develop artists and bands in Southern California including recent HMMA's Award Winning Metal Band Fellguard from Murrieta and Fiasco, (formerly known as Understated) from Rancho Cucamonga.\n\nFrom 2006 to 2009, Fox gave private music lessons in Pasadena at a small music shop, Groovin on Music.\n\nBeginning in 2008, Fox joined the Las Vegas based classic rock band \"Playground\" featuring Frank Di Mino from the rock group Angel. Playground has since hired other members, but he and DiMino now play in a tribute band called Vinyl Tattoo in Las Vegas.\n\nIn 2014, he produced the first full-length album by Oklahoma Christian metal band, Chaotic Resemblance, \"Get the Hell Out\".\n\nFox married Annie Lobert, a former prostitute for 16 years turned evangelical Christian, in Las Vegas, Nevada on June 5, 2009. The ceremony was broadcast live on the Internet. Lobert has a ministry to prostitutes still on the streets called \"Hookers for Jesus\".\n\nAt approximately 12:30 am on August 12, 2018, Fox had a seizure while performing with a side band in Las Vegas and was taken to the hospital. A CT scan and MRI discovered two masses: one by his ear and the other in the back of his head.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818729", "title": "Certaldo", "text": "Certaldo\n\nCertaldo is a town and \"comune\" of Tuscany, Italy, in the Metropolitan City of Florence, in the middle of Valdelsa. It is about southwest of the Florence Duomo.\n\nIt is 50 minutes by rail and 35 minutes by car southwest of Florence, and it is 40 minutes by rail north of Siena.\n\nIt was home to the family of Giovanni Boccaccio, author of the \"Decameron\". He died at his home inside the town and was buried here in 1375. The actor Ernesto Calindri was also born in Certaldo.\n\nThe town of Certaldo is divided into upper and lower parts. The lower part is called Certaldo Basso, whilst the medieval upper part is called Certaldo Alto. Certaldo Alto has limited vehicular access, for use by residents only. Visitors can park outside the walls or in the lower part and go to Certaldo Alto by the Certaldo funicular.\n\nCertaldo had Etruscan-Roman origins, as shown by the numerous archaeological finds that are scattered around the city's territory, including ceramics, utensils and Etruscan tombs, some of which were found just recently. The Etruscan origins were discovered mostly thanks to the Toponymy of some localities and streams, for example the Agliena and the Elsa river (which flow near Certaldo), and the foodstuffs deposits in the hills. There are two hills in Certaldo where Etruscan tombs have been found, Poggio del Boccaccio and Poggio alle Fate. There was also a necropolis. All of the finds of Etruscan-Roman origin are today kept in the ground floor of the Palazzo Pretorio, in the medieval part of the town.\n\n\nThe town hosts several festivals a year. The largest and most famous is Mercantia, a week-long party in Certaldo Alto. It involves numerous street performers from across Italy, Europe and even the Americas.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818730", "title": "Tim Gaines", "text": "Tim Gaines\n\nTimothy \"Tim\" Gaines (born Timothy Hagelganz; December 15, 1962) is an American bass guitarist best-known as the long-time bassist for the Christian metal band Stryper until his departure in 2017.\n\nGaines was born in Portland, Oregon, into a German family, whose ancestry was that of the Volga Germans. When Gaines was four years old, he and his family moved to Arcadia, California, where he later attended Arcadia High School. When he was young, he was bullied by classmates at school because of his unique and often mispronounced last name, Hagelganz, and for being the son of Arcadia Presbyterian Church's pastor. He later adopted the stage name Gaines in the likeness of his uncles Reuben, a radio announcer, and Ronnie, a jazz nightclub performer, who also used the name professionally.\n\nAfter Arcadia High School, Gaines joined the band Stormer, with whom he recorded a demo and toured extensively in Los Angeles and Hollywood's Sunset Strip.\n\nAt the time Gaines joined Stormer, they had already been a popular band for 10 years in the Los Angeles area. The lineup at the time consisted of Tom Hardy on vocals; Steve Hall on drums; Stephan Shawn on guitar, keys, and vocals; and Donny Simmons on lead guitar and vocals.\n\nIn an interview about Stormer, Gaines recalled, \"We signed a deal with an indie label called Rockwoodz music out of Phoenix, Arizona, and they put us in the studio to record an album and a Christmas single. Well, the single was the only thing that ever made it to vinyl and 500 singles were sent out all over the U.S. to radio. We got some good reviews for the single in some trade magazines but nothing ever happened with the band. For whatever reason, Rockwoodz went belly up and the album was never released. We did some small tours around the southwest but eventually I was to leave the group.\"\n\nIn 2008, when asked if the demos will be remastered and made public, Gaines replied, \"I doubt if anyone can find the Masters. We are talking of having a Stormer reunion in the near future. We may decide to record it.\" Gaines occasionally collaborated with Donny Simmons and Tom Hardy when he was not working with Stryper.\n\nBeing a Sunset Strip regular, in 1983, Gaines joined up with Michael Sweet, Robert Sweet, and Oz Fox, all of whom had already formed Roxx Regime, which they would later change to Stryper. Gaines quickly rounded out the quartet's sound with his bass, background vocal, and keyboard skills. Gaines recorded the band's debut EP \"The Yellow and Black Attack\" and their follow-up full-length album, \"Soldiers Under Command\", in 1985.\n\nGaines briefly left the band during the pre-production period of the band's Platinum-selling album \"To Hell with the Devil\" but rejoined the band after the sessions were concluded to tour. Gaines did not play on the band's follow up, \"In God We Trust\", but toured in support of the album.\n\nGaines's contributions to the band's next release, \"Against the Law\", were evident in his playing throughout the album, but he did not play on the band's cover of Earth, Wind & Fire's \"Shining Star,\" which featured bassist Randy Jackson).\n\nWith Stryper, Gaines has contributed to 17 albums, including live performances and studio albums. Soldiers Under Command was certified Gold and \"To Hell with the Devil\" was certified Platinum.\n\nAfter Stryper, Gaines played in Rex Carroll's project King James along with Stryper alum Robert Sweet. He also recorded with Tourniquet on \"Crawl to China\". Afterward, he formed SinDizzy with Stryper guitarist Oz Fox and released one album, \"He's Not Dead\".\n\nGaines's involvement with Fox in SinDizzy led to a partial Stryper reunion in 1999 at a concert in Puerto Rico, to which both SinDizzy and former Stryper frontman Michael Sweet were invited. Later, all former bandmates played a show in Central America, leading to a full-blown reunion in 2000. These appearances led to a 2003 reunion tour and a new compilation release, \"\". Gaines spent April and May 2007 supporting Richard Marx on bass, touring the U.S., the Dominican Republic, and Trinidad. Gaines joined Tourniquet on stage at Flevo Festival in 2008.\n\nIn fall 2009, Gaines released his first solo effort titled \"Breakfast @ Timothy's\".\n\nOn September 6, 2011, Gaines began endorsing Overture Guitars with a signature model, the Overture Stronghold TG Bass.\n\nIn September 2016, Stryper frontman Michael Sweet announced the band will be going on hiatus due to personal issues affecting bassist Timothy Gaines. The hiatus will begin once the band has completed the To Hell With the Devil 30th Anniversary Tour. Sweet stated they will not continue without Gaines as the band made a pact to only stay together as they are. During the hiatus the band members will pray about the direction of the band going forward. Later Sweet stated that Gaines was moving on from the personal issues and will take time to decide what he wants to do with the band. While Sweet disliked the idea of continuing without Gaines, he is open to filling the position of bassist with the right person if it came to that. Gaines then confirmed that he was no longer a member of the band.\n\nFollowing the hiatus, the band issued a statement advising that Gaines had been fired from the band, removing him from the roster on the band's website. Gaines claimed that he was kicked out after he was given an ultimatum by the band.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818732", "title": "Tracy Ferrie", "text": "Tracy Ferrie\n\nTracy Ferrie is an American musician, who is the current bass player for the classic rock band Boston and was the former bass player of Christian metal band Stryper.\n\nFerrie grew up in Northern Indiana where he was encouraged by his high school band director to pursue music, leading him to study at Berklee College of Music, Music Production and Engineering Dept. During his grade school days, Ferrie learned to play various instruments including tuba, guitar, upright bass, and percussion but was requested to play electric bass by his band director. Bass quickly became Ferrie's main instrument and gained him many session musician gigs both live and in the studio.\n\nAfter two and a half years of studying at Berklee, Ferrie was attacked and mugged outside of Boston. After hospitalization and multiple surgeries, Ferrie moved back home to Indiana recover. He eventually moved to Hollywood and enrolled at Musicians Institute. While in Los Angeles he began taking jobs for recording sessions and performing live with bands and in videos; some of which were featured on MTV. Ferrie's first touring act across the south western United States was with the band Electrik.\n\nFerrie's big break came from Dez Dickerson, who played guitar for Prince's band The Revolution. Dickerson was able to get Ferrie an audition for the Christian metal band Whitecross, with whom he recorded two full albums and completed two world tours with. He also played and wrote for Whitecross's labelmate, Seraiah.\n\nSince 1996, Tracy played bass for Michael Sweet's solo band, Sally Steele, Guardian, Rebecca St. James, Plumb, Sonicflood, Greg Long and Strange Celebrity before joining Stryper in 2004. He participated on stage in the Boston Strong Benefit along with Aerosmith, J. Geils, Jimmy Buffett, Carole King and James Taylor.\nAs a member of Stryper, Tracy was joined By Tom Scholz and Gary Pihl to play \"Peace of Mind\" for the Station nightclub fire benefit for the families and victims of the tragic fire in Rhode Island.\n\nSome of his recording credits are with Stryper, Plumb, April McLean, Strange Celebrity, Whitecross, Jeff Deyo, Boe Braswell, Kristy Starling, Danielle Bollinger, Paul Alan, and Kimberley Locke. Tracy is the Assistant Minister at Grace Church of East Dennis on Cape Cod\n\nFerrie has since left Stryper to join Boston, replacing Kimberley Dahme in mid-2012.\n\nFerrie is also a national roller skating champion.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818742", "title": "Henri Cernuschi", "text": "Henri Cernuschi\n\nHenri Cernuschi (\"Enrico Cernuschi\" in Italian) (19 February 1821 – 11 May 1896), was a major French banker, economist and Asian art collector, who began in public life as an Italian politician in 1848–1850.\n\nCernuschi was born of wealthy parents at Milan, and was destined for the legal profession. During his studies he became involved in the revolutionary movement. He played a conspicuous part in the insurrection at Milan in 1848, and also in the Roman Republic (1849), where he had a seat in the Assembly. On the collapse of the revolutionary government he was arrested (1850), but managed to escape to France, where he engaged in commerce and banking, became naturalized, and acquired a large fortune. He took a prominent part in opposing the Socialist movement, and in April 1870, having subscribed a large sum to the funds of a committee formed to combat the Napoleonic plebiscite, had to leave the country.\n\nIn September the formation of the Third Republic enabled Cernuschi to return, but he soon left Paris to travel in the Far East. He returned with a fine art collection that he would constantly expand upon for the remainder of his life. \n\nCernuschi died at Menton in May 1896, and was interred at Père Lachaise Cemetery in Paris.\n\nCernuschi bequeathed his collection to the city of Paris, as well as his private residence at No 7. avenue Velasquez on the edge of Parc Monceau in the 8th arrondissement to be used as a museum. Open to the public today, the Cernuschi Museum collection includes Chinese art, funeral statuary, painted 8th-century silks, neolithic terracottas (3rd millennium BC), Japanese art (mostly bronze objects and sculptures, ceramics, paravents), ancient Persian bronze objects, an Amithaba Buddha from the 8th Century, plus examples of calligraphy.\n\nAs a banker, Cernuschi is best known for his publications on financial questions, more especially bimetallism. Of the latter he was an ardent champion, and the word itself is commonly supposed to have originated with him—at least in its English form it is first found in his \"Silver Vindicated\" (1876). Among his other works were: \"Mécanique de l'échange\" (1861); \"Illusion des sociétés coopératives\" (1886); \"Le Bimétallisme en Angleterre\" (1879); \"Le Grand Procès de l'Union latine\" (1884).\n"}
{"id": "1818745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818745", "title": "Jiří Jarošík", "text": "Jiří Jarošík\n\nJiří Jarošík (born 27 October 1977) is a Czech football coach and a former player. His playing position was defender and midfielder. He started his club career in his native Czech Republic, winning six league titles in seven years with Sparta Prague. He headed abroad to continue his football career, spending eight years playing for various teams including CSKA Moscow, Chelsea, Birmingham City, Celtic, Krylia Sovetov and Real Zaragoza. During this time he won league titles in four countries. He then returned to Sparta, although only for two seasons, after which he headed to Spain to play for Deportivo Alavés.\n\nJarošík played for the Czech national team, making 23 appearances without scoring between 2000 and 2005.\n\nBorn in Ústí nad Labem, then Czechoslovakia, Jarošík began his career with Sparta Prague in his native Czech Republic. He had a two-year loan spell at Slovan Liberec before establishing himself in the first team at Sparta. Jarošík's appearances caught the eye of CSKA Moscow, who paid a then Russian record of about $3.5 million to acquire him in 2003.\n\nOn 6 January 2005, Jarošík was purchased by Premier League club Chelsea for an undisclosed fee, thought to be about £3 million. On 27 February, he started the League Cup final, which Chelsea won 3–2 against Liverpool. Chelsea won the 2004–05 Premier League title and Jarošík made enough league appearances (14) to earn a championship medal.\n\nIn August 2005, after Chelsea purchased Michael Essien, Jarošík found himself out of the first team and was loaned to fellow Premier League side Birmingham City for the 2005–06 season. At Birmingham, he was the team's joint-top goalscorer, albeit with just eight goals, becoming better known for his long-range shooting than the defensive responsibilities which gave him his name at Moscow. After finishing a disappointing season for the Midlands side, Birmingham had the option to make the deal permanent when the spell ended, but following their relegation, they did not do so. He finished his loan period at St Andrew's in May 2006, and returned to Chelsea not knowing where his future would lie, due to there being heavy competition for places at the club.\n\nOn 19 June 2006, Jarošík left Chelsea and signed a three-year deal with Scottish Premier League champions Celtic for an undisclosed fee, rumoured to be around the £2 million mark. He scored on his Celtic debut in a 4–1 victory over Kilmarnock at Celtic Park. Competition from other midfielders such as Evander Sno, Aiden McGeady and Paul Hartley meant that first team opportunities were limited for Jarošík, but he still made several notable contributions to Celtic's success, including winning both the free kicks from which Shunsuke Nakamura scored in the two Champions League group stage matches against Manchester United – the second put Celtic into the last 16. On 6 December 2006, Jarošík also scored Celtic's goal in a 3–1 Champions League group stage loss at Copenhagen. On 14 January 2007, Jarošík scored the winner in a 2–1 win over Hearts. Celtic won the 2006–07 league title in Jarošík's first season with the club, meaning that he had won league medals in a record four countries – Czech Republic, Russia, England and Scotland.\n\nDespite the signings of Massimo Donati and Scott Brown for the 2007–08 season, which made midfield competition even tighter than before, Jarošík remained with Celtic. On 3 October, Jarošík made his first Celtic start in over six months in Celtic's 2–1 Champions League group stage victory over A.C. Milan at Celtic Park. On 28 November, Jarošík scored Celtic's equaliser in another Champions League group stage match – this time against Shakhtar Donetsk – with a spectacular left-footed volley. The match ended 2–1 to Celtic.\n\nOn 31 January 2008, Jarošík signed for Russian club Krylia Sovetov for a reported fee of €1 million.\n\nOn 14 January 2010, Jarošík signed for Spanish club Real Zaragoza on a free transfer. He scored his first goal for the club with a header in a 1–1 draw with Atlético Madrid in a league match.\n\nOn 13 August 2011, Jarošík signed for his former club Sparta Prague as a free agent.\n\nOn 26 August 2013, Jarošík signed as a free agent for Deportivo Alavés, a club that just promoted to the Spanish Second Division.\n\nJarošík has played 23 times for the Czech Republic national team, although he was not included in the squads for Euro 2004, the 2006 World Cup or Euro 2008.\n\nSparta Prague\n\nCSKA Moscow\n\nChelsea\n\nCeltic\n\n"}
{"id": "1818747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818747", "title": "Golden-olive woodpecker", "text": "Golden-olive woodpecker\n\nThe golden-olive woodpecker (\"Colaptes rubiginosus\") is a resident breeding bird from Mexico south and east to Guyana, northwest Argentina, Trinidad and Tobago. It was formerly placed in the genus \"Piculus\". The scientific name \"rubiginosus\" means \"full of rust\", describing the color of the bird's wings and back.\n\nThe golden-olive woodpecker is long and weighs . Adults are mainly golden olive above with some barring on the tail. The forecrown is grey and the hindcrown red. The face is yellow-white and the underparts are barred black and yellowish. The bill is black. Adult males have a red moustachial strip which is lacking in the female.\n\nThe habitat of this woodpecker is forests, more open woodlands and cultivation. It is most common in the mountains. Two or three white eggs are laid in a nest hole in a tree and incubated by both sexes. The young are fed by regurgitation.\n\nDue to its habitat-mainly montane forests, separated by large rivers-it has evolved into about 20 subspecies. \"P. r. tobagensis\" from Tobago is larger and heavier-billed than \"P. r. trinitatis\" from Trinidad. Some of the South American subspecies have only very narrow yellow barring on the underparts and the Andean subspecies show a pale eye ring.\n\nGolden-olive woodpeckers mainly eat insects, including ants and beetle larvae, with some fruit and berries. The call of this bird is a loud \"wheep\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1818751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818751", "title": "Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W220)", "text": "Mercedes-Benz S-Class (W220)\n\nThe Mercedes-Benz W220 was a series of flagship sedans which constituted the Mercedes-Benz S-Class during the early to mid-2000s. Development for the W220 S-Class started in 1992, with the final design, helmed by Steve Mattin being approved in June 1995 at 38 months ahead of production start and completed design freeze in March 1996, at 29 months before the start of production in August 1998. The completed prototypes were presented in June 1998. The W220 started production in August 13, 1998, and the C215 CL-Class coupés started production in 1999. The W220 was a replacement for the earlier W140 S-Class after the 1998 model year. Compared to its predecessor, the W220 had somewhat smaller exterior dimensions but offered more interior space, particularly in the long-wheelbase versions (although the trunk is smaller than on its W140 predecessor). Production of the 220-series totalled 484,683 units, slightly more than the production totals from the W140. Production ended in late 2005, when the W220 was replaced by the W221 S-Class and the C215 was replaced in 2006 by the C216 CL-Class.\n\nIn many European countries, the diesel S 320 CDI version became the most popular model, making it the first S-Class in which a diesel engine achieved broad appeal. Other engine options were various gas/petrol V-6 engines, V-8, and V-12 engines. There were long and short wheelbase versions, performance and luxury enhancement options, and also four-wheel drive versions.\n\nSteve Mattin's design was the first sketch drawn in October 1992 and developed into 1:1 scale by late 1994. In June 1995, the Daimler-Benz AG board of management approved Mattin's final design at 38 months before production. By March 1996, W220 program engineers completed the design freeze, 29 months before production start in August 1998. The W220 exterior design (especially headlights) was previewed by the Mercedes-Benz F200 concept in late 1996. Being a Mercedes flagship vehicle worldwide, the S-Class largely popularized the theme. It demonstrated a significantly different stylistic mindset, with both exterior lines and an interior design that expressed elegance and modernity. This can be seen as a response to criticism on its W140 predecessor, which had a more boxy look.\n\nDespite being smaller, the new car was roomier inside while the dashboard carried over the new styling details first seen in the first generation A-Class from the year before.\n\nA face-lifted version of the S-Class was designed in late 2000 and introduced in September 2002, offering a more refined front-end with a larger, more upright grille, transparent headlamp housings with sealed-beam projectors, and revised taillights. Much of the rest of the exterior remained largely unchanged from first phase W220 models. \n\nInside, the update addressed several of the issues in the COMAND system and other interior features. Exterior updates included a more upright grille angle, new transparent housing for the headlamps (replacing the earlier translucent versions), and restyled lower air intakes on the front bumper.\n\nThe S 600 series has a \"V12\" badge affixed to either side of the car, just forward of the front doors and back from the wheel wells.\n\nThe first W220 S-Class rolled off the assembly line on August 13, 1998.\n\nEuropean Sales (for all versions of S-Class):\n\nApproximate selection of US models. In the US, model years for the W220 were 2000, 2001, 2002, 2003, 2004, 2005, and 2006 (only some versions). Not all versions were available in all model years.\n\n\nSome models had options for Sport package, Designo, and/or 4Matic.\n\nIn the United States the W220 S-Class was introduced in 1999 for the 2000 model year, replacing the W140. The type was noted as being the leader in the U.S. car market for luxury cars, and early reviews were mostly positive but noted the amount of money that could be spent on options. At the time, the US was the second biggest buyer of S-Classes, after Germany. In 1999, Mercedes-Benz sold 189,437 and hoped to exceed that the next year.\nOne automotive magazine spent several thousands on options for their review of the 2001 S-Class. After choosing an S 500, they added Distronic (a smart cruise control system), Active Ventilated Seats, the \"Timeport\" phone with a voice control system, and the sport package (AMG rims and trim). This increased the price from the mid US$70,000s to the $90,000s after delivery and taxes. Other US models available at this time were the S 430, S 500, S 55 (AMG model), and S 600 (the V12). A four-wheel drive system became an option for 2003 for the S 430 and S 500 along with mid-life upgrades that targeted a range of interior and exterior features. In the last U.S. W220 model year a V-6 was offered as the S 350. Another special option was called the \"Designo\", which matched special interior and exterior colors and materials. An example of this is that one such model used Elm wood in the interior. There were two designo additions offered, the Designo Espresso Edition and the Designo Silver Edition The twelve-cylinder S 600 included interior upgrades, including an increased amount of leather over more interior surfaces.\n\nThe W220 based S 65 AMG was also offered in 2006 concurrently with the new W221. The S 65 had a 604 hp, 738 lb-ft twin-turbo V-12 and other miscellaneous features inside and out. It retailed that year in the United States for about US$180,000. The V-12 had a displacement of 6 liters, in a single overhead cam, 36-valve configuration, and was paired with two turbochargers. The S 65 had four oval tail-pipes and AMG alloy wheels.\n\nUK models in 2001: Prices ranged from £44,410 for the S 280 up to £87,580 for the long-wheel base S 600.\n\nOne of the most popular versions was the long-wheelbase S 500, with over 108,000 produced over the model run. On top of that, an additional over 13,000 all-wheel drive S 500 version were made and over 21,000 short-wheel base S 500 models. This works out to about 140,000 S 500 of all versions across all model years out of 484,683 of all W220 models over its production run. The W220's peak sales year was 2000, with 88,000 sold worldwide, but both 1999 and 2001 were close with well over 80,000 sold. Two unique models that had small runs were a factory produced 160 inch wheelbase \"stretch limo\" called a Pullman and a special security version called S-Guard.\n\nThe Pullman version was a Mercedes-Benz engineered version of the S-Class of this period (circa 2001), that went beyond the after market \"stretch\" to offer a host of advanced systems and enhanced comfort. One of those systems was the AMG Advanced Mobile Media System to support the concept of a mobile office from within the vehicle. Components of this system including 10.4 inch LCD monitors displaying data from a computer with mobile web access. The system could also support video display, both from a DVD player or tuner to pick up broadcast; with two screen, it could display both at the same time. An additional re-chargeable battery allowed the system to powered independently for a half-hour with the engine off. The AMG developed media system could connect to the World Wide Web using HSCSD or GPRS at up to 43 kilobits per second.\n\nThe AMG Advanced Mobile Media System debuted in 1999 on the Mercedes-Benz S 55 AMG, which was noted for featuring a six-channel digital audio system. The system debuted on S-Class with 2001 Pullman model. AMG signed a cooperation agreement with Daimler-Benz starting 1990, producing special models of MB vehicles and became further integrated in this period starting in 1991 with the foundation of Mercedes-AMG GmbH various changes driven especially by the success of AMG models in MB lines and expansions at Affalterbach, Germany.\n\nThe S-Class Pullman was offered as the S 500 (V8) or S 600 (V12) and was jointly developed by Mercedes and AMG. The Pullman is longer than the regular S-Class, providing of space in the rear seat area. This also additional seating for up to seven-passengers, with two rear facing seats in between the front and back seats. In six-seat configuration the rear bench seat capable of three is replaced by two independent chairs. In addition to the AMG multi-media system, there is also a bar supporting the consumption of cooled beverages, small tables, and a barrier to the front of the vehicle that. Along with this barrier is an intercom from the rear seat to the driver area to support communication within the vehicle. Mechanically, the roof, exhaust, side-panels and chassis featured changes to support the additional length. A special feature for people working on the car, is that the side panels can be easily removed like doors.\n\nOne model line of the Mercedes-Benz S-Class in this period was the AMG version S 55. The S 55 had a number of modifications over the stock W220 S-Class, and the changes were oriented towards higher automotive performance and more dramatic styling features compared to the regular models. The model name derives from displacement of the engine, a special almost 5.5 litre V8. The early model had a naturally aspirated version with , and starting in 2003, it switched to supercharged version with .\n\nThe additional power-boost came for the later model S 55 from pairing this engine with a supercharger. A supercharger is a forced induction system that compresses the air before in enters the engine, and uses air compressor powered by a belt connected to the engine. The engine peak output on the S 55 was and of torque. Other changes include enhanced brakes and wheels, with 14.2 inch brake discs at the front and 13 inch discs at the rear. The S 55 was also equipped with Active Body Control. The supercharged S 55 models had the Kompressor (Mercedes-Benz) badge on the side. For more about AMG models with this engine see\n\"55\" 5.4 L V8 KOMPRESSOR.\n\nFeatures added to the S 55 (US-spec)\n\nThe S 600 was the main 12-cylinder engine model of the W220 body. The increased output of the engine enabled this W220 to keep up with a Ferrari 575M Maranello according to one automotive magazine of the era. The 2003 S 600 could achieve 60 mph (97 km/h) in 4.3 seconds and in 9.7 seconds. It was 1/10 second faster than the Ferrari in a quarter mile test, with the S 600 achieving in 12.5 seconds at . It could stop from in 164 feet with the OEM tires in that same testing. The 2003 model had a Sensotronic braking system and the suspension used the ABC system which combined an hydraulic system and springs. The 2003 model was fitted with Michelin Pilot Sport tires with a Y rating. Due to matched demand of the limited production of S65 AMG models, AMG assembled a small number of long wheel based S600 facelift models featuring the new AMG assembled M275 bi turbo engine and AMG body styling in 2003 & 2004. These models were exclusive to European and Asian markets as a luxury alternative to the S65 AMG. In the US, the 2001 S 600 had a 5.8 liter V-12 making at 5500 rpm and up to of torque at 4100 rpm. The 2003 model update had an updated 5.5 liter V-12 with twin turbochargers, producing and of torque.\n\nThe S 600 was also a model of the S-Class Pullman, an even longer wheelbase version that was 1 meter longer and supporting up to seven passengers and mobile office technology.\n\nFeatures included on the S 600 (US-spec):\n\nSome of these were also options on other models\n\nThe S 65 was an AMG version of the S 600, with a twin-turbocharged V12 producing . The S65 AMG W220 could reach 100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.4s, 200 km/h in 13.1s, and clocked in at 12.0s in the 1/4 mile. The S 65 still used the 5G-Tronic 5-speed torque converter automatic transmission due to its powerful engine, as it could make over of torque. Pushing close to , the S 65 may not have been sporty compared to lighter sport vehicles of the day, but it pushed the performance limits of a full-sized luxury sedan. With and over of torque available, it excelled at autobahn cruising. One reviewer noted that it excelled at being a \"gran turismo\" (grand tourer) and averaged about 17 miles per gallon despite its size and equally large power plant.\n\nThe S 65 was noted as a special value on the used car market, given that, despite requiring the maintenance of less expensive models, it could approach a ten-second 1/4 mile, yet it retained amenities such as heated leather seats and multi-passenger seating. A popular aftermarket tuning kit was an ECU upgrade from Renntech since increasing engine output required no mechanical upgrades to the car.\n\nThe German spec S 65 AMG can accelerate from 0–100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.4 seconds and 0–200 km/h (124 mph) in 13.1 seconds.\n\nAs with each new S-Class, the W220 was technologically advanced at the time of its launch, bringing in new innovations such as Airmatic air suspension, Active Ventilated Seats (which used miniature fans in the seats to move air through perforations), keyless entry and ignition, Distronic: the first worldwide radar-assisted Autonomous cruise control system, and a cylinder deactivation system called Active Cylinder Control for the S 500 and S 600 models, which improves fuel consumption and reduces emissions. All were pioneering innovations at the time of the W220's conception. There are standard features to all models, standard features to certain models, and finally optional features. Sometimes what is standard changes on a model year or country of sale.\n\n4Matic all wheel drive was introduced to the North American S-Class for 2003, for the S 430 and S 500 as a US$2180 option. This full-time system splits engine power 40/60 front/rear, with electronic traction control adjusting that mix to the wheels (or wheel) with the best traction in slippery conditions.\nIt was the first Mercedes with curtain airbags (previewed by the F200 concept in 1996).\n\nDetails on some of the safety, comfort, and technological features are as follows:\n\nDespite a wide range of safety technology, and being marketed for its safety, one Canadian website said W220 S-Class had not actually been tested by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, or Euro NCAP, or at least the information was not available. However, another website says that the W220 passed the legally prescribed EU front and side impact tests. Increased attention to side impacts was noted, and the car included a window air bag that inflates between the A and C pillars.\n\nPassive safety features include various frames and bulkheads made out of aluminum and/or high-strength steel. Also the front and rear ends include aluminum crash boxes can be replaced as separate units to reduce the cost of repairs. Despite its price German insurance companies put it in the lower bracket because it was easier to repair.\n\n\nFeatures varied depending on locality (e.g. North American version) and what options were equipped\n\nThe Linguatronic voice control was introduced as an option in 1996 on the W140 S-Class. At that time it was primarily for controlling the car phone, and could understand 30 words. The second generation of this system was introduced in 2000. On the W220 this second generation system could understand more words and control more systems, such as the radio. In 2000, it could understand 300 words and control certain features on the phone, radio, CD player, and other systems. The second generation system needed 20 times the memory of the first generation system (from about half megabyte to twenty megabytes). The algorithms used in the system were developed at Ulm, Germany where what was then called DaimlerChrysler Research and Technology center was located in addition to other groups within the company. The system listens to the person's voice and records frequencies which are then analyzed by a computer and its software. The system looks for patterns called phonemes to understand what the person is saying, a process which it computes in milliseconds.\n\nWhat system the voice command can control can depend on the model year. In 2000, it could control the car phone, the radio, and the CD player (if installed) but in 2002 the navigation system was also added to its domain. An original goal of the Linguatronic system was to allow essentially hands-free control of interior systems, especially the car phone by using spoken words. This means there is microphone (located in the W220 S-Class) that can listen to the person; one of the issues is hearing the person over background noises and echos. The Linguatronic system used digital pre-processing to support this task. The features is run from hardware in a separate box in the back of the car.\n\nThe W220 featured a new pneumatic suspension system (Airmatic) with Adaptive Damping System (ADS) which adjusts the shock absorbers to difficult road conditions. Drivers can select a comfort or two sports suspension programmes as well as increased ride height (+25 mm) via switches on the dash. The increased ride height is automatically canceled after 5 minutes of 55 MPH driving or manually through driver's input. The hydraulic Active Body Control (ABC) system (premiere in 1999 on the Mercedes-Benz C215 coupe) is technically more advanced than Airmatic and keeps the car level even in fast corners, provides a comfort and sports setting. Also, just like Airmatic equipped vehicles, the ride height can be raised by using a button (2 settings, compared with Airmatic's single setting), increasing ground clearance for driving on difficult terrain such as roads with deep ruts or snow. Prior to September 2002, only higher end models (e.g. S 600, ABC available only) lowered themselves automatically at higher speeds by 15 mm in order to achieve greater stability (lower center of gravity) as well as better fuel efficiency through a slightly improved aerodynamic drag coefficient. As of September 2002 all models, regardless of engine and drivetrain type (ABC or Airmatic) were able to do so as well. Furthermore, at highway speeds the suspension computer automatically engages sport mode (Airmatic - Sport mode 1 or 2 depending on the current speed), thus aiding safety by significantly reducing body roll in sharp turns.\n\nThere was a set of standard features, then differences between models other than just the engine, and then also various options that could be added to any given model.\n\nThe basic model had Calyptus wood (possibly Eucalyptus), the S 500 added burl walnut trim Walnut tree, the Designo Espresso edition had Elm wood trim, and the Designo Silver edition had Maple wood trim)\n\nExamples of stock exterior paint colors/names offered included (in this case for the '06 S 65): Alabaster White, Almandine Black Metallic, Black, Black Opal Metallic, Bordeaux Red Metallic, Brilliant Silver Metallic, Capri Blue Metallic, Desert Silver Metallic, Everest Green Metallic, Flint Grey Metallic, Granite Grey Metallic, Horizon Blue Metallic, Midnight Blue, Obsidian Black, Pewter Metallic, Designo Graphite, Designo Mocha Black Metallic\n\nThe S-Class had two special design editions that were available for different drivetrains, it was trim and feature option set and the two choices were \"Designo Espresso\" and \"Designo Silver\". Both included many interior trim items, like a wood shift knob, Alcantara headliner, and leather trim.\n\nThe Designo Espresso edition had Elm wood trim, and the Designo Silver edition had Maple wood trim. There were two Designo exterior paint options, \"designo Graphite\" and \"designo Mocha Black Metallic\". The Espresso edition featured the Mocha paint, napa leather, and elm wood.\n\nPhone systems offered during its model run include the Motorola Startac, carried over from W140 and offered in the first model year but replaced by the Mercedes-Benz/Motorola Timeport. Later, Mercedes-Benz offered the Motorola V60 as the car phone.\n\nThe \"Timeport\" phone with a voice control system was offered as an option on the Mercedes-Benz S-Class. The Timeport phone was similar to a Motorola Startac. In 2000, Mercedes and telecommunications and electronics company Motorola announced they would offer the Timeport cell phone system on all models in the year 2001. The Timeport cell-phone was a jointly developed and became available on all of Mercedes 2001 models(including the 2001 W220 S-Class) The Timeport phone was integrated with S-Class systems, major features included Voice-control and automatic muteing of the radio when accepting an incoming call (or tape or CD player). Another feature was that the directory of numbers in the phone could be downloaded to the car, and shown on the in-car display. Even though the phone was integrated as a system with car, it was portable handset that could be removed from the car. The cell-phone had an electro-luminescent Organic display with multiple colors available. The Mercedes-Benz Timeport phones were the only ones in the StarTac family to have the organic-luminescent display. (see also OLED) Another set of phones that the S-Class used were the Nokia 6150, Nokia 6210, Nokia 6310, and Nokia 6310i. These phones worked with S-Class equipped with D2B data communication system (another later system was the UHI).\n\nAs the years passed, various ways to connect different phones or systems to the COMAND or interface with existing cradles came to market, of varying ability and expense there is the issues of handling a connection to the system and then the software needed interface, and this task is affected by the model year and equipment options of any particular S-Class. One of the major advancements in this period was Bluetooth, and many modern updates are oriented towards this wireless data connection technology.\n\nOne option is the use a \"puck\" which plugs into the existing hardware, and engages the COMAND computer/software like an original device, but can talk to a modern device on the \"other side\" typically via Bluetooth. The advantage of using a puck in this style is it means the existing cradle and/or cabling has to be changed but still allows connecting with a variety of different devices, especially a wide-variety of \"smart-phones\" that became popular in the decade after the W220.\n\nThe W220 was available with more engine options than the W126 or W140. The range started with a smaller 2.8L V6 motor. Very popular was the 3.2L V6, which was superseded by an enlarged 3.7L V6 in the S 350. Despite their popularity, the 6-cylinder S-Class cars were not imported into countries such as the United States until model year 2006 with the S 350 (short wheelbase), where Daimler was then testing the market demand for a V6 S-Class.\n\nThe S 430, the only United States market S-Class available with both a short wheelbase ('03-'06) as well as a long wheelbase, was that region's most popular model and powered by a 4.3L V8 that avoided the federal government's Gas Guzzler Tax of $1000. The S 500 was powered by a 5.0L V8.\n\nThe S 55 AMG ('01-'02) was outfitted with a 5.4L V8 motor while the later versions ('03-'06) sported the same motor, but supercharged to a rated . The S 600 ('01-'02) was outfitted with a 5.8L V12 engine while the later versions ('03-'06) sported a twin-turbocharged (or Bi-Turbo) 5.5L V12. Both S 55 AMG and S 600 have same engine output but target different clientele: the former more sporty while the latter more luxurious.\n\nFor one month in 2001, AMG produced the S 63 AMG, which was sold in very limited numbers. The S 63 was powered by a naturally aspirated 6.3L V12. A total of 70 cars were sold exclusively through AMG in European and Asian markets.\n\nS 65 AMG was introduced in 2005 with new enlarged 6-litre V12 engine developed specifically for Maybach 57S and 62S (as to amortise the cost of engine development). The twin turbocharged 6-litre V12 had output of and of torque. S 65 AMG became the most powerful S-Class ever built with incremental power increase for W222 S 65 AMG in 2017. Additionally, S 65 AMG was world's most powerful five-passenger four-door sedan until Dodge Charger SRT Hellcat with was introduced in 2014.\n\nThe S 320 CDI was initially fitted with a || engine, which was upgraded in late 2002 to a || one. The S 400 CDI had at first, but got in 2004. The type designation S 400 CDI was changed in the W221 generation to S 420.\n\nW220 was the first generation of S-Class, where automatic transmissions were standard on all models. At first, all cars had 5-speed 5G-Tronic transmission; however, since 2003 (2004 in the United States), S 430 and S 500 were instead offered with the new 7-speed 7G-Tronic transmission.\nAll model years used a 5-speed transmission until a 7-speed came out. In the U.S. market, the 7 speed was the standard transmission on RWD S 430 and S 500 models in 2004, and optional on 4MATIC models. V12 models continued using the 5-speed as the 7-speed could not handle the immense amount of torque from the V12. In 2005, the 7-speed was standard on the S430 4MATIC, making it no longer optional. ref name=\"trans\">Used Vehicle Review: Mercedes-Benz S-Class, 2000-2006</ref> The transmission has W and S modes that can be selected.\n\nSee also: Mercedes-Benz 5G-Tronic transmission and Mercedes-Benz 7G-Tronic transmission\n\nAirmatic, or AIRmatic stands for Adaptive Intelligent Ride Control and was not just an air suspension but also electronic and software control system that actively adjust the level of dampening. This allows, for example, the car to automatically lower itself down at high speeds and keep the car balanced despite loads inside the car. The car can also be manually controlled to raise the car up if going for example over rough roads.\nThe standard W220's have a four-wheel air suspension called Airmatic by Mercedes-Benz, rather than the more common \"springs and shocks\". Some models had a hydraulic system called ABC, which was an optional upgrade (so almost any model may have ABC) but it was also a standard feature on certain models. For MB, ABC stands for Active Body Control. Airmatic and ABC were different systems, the Airmatic used air, but ABC used fluid struts in a similar way.\n\nThe Airmatic main components are an air-pump, airlines going to each wheel, and four air-struts. The air pump is located in the front diver side behind a splash guard near the wheel. Mercedes-Benz has also improved and changed the Airmatic pump over the course of time. The AIRMATIC struts are controlled by the N51 Air Suspension Control Unit (N51) and there is also a level sensor that tells the level. Airmatic allows a W220 to be lowered or raised by about 2 cm, for example, it lowers at high speeds for a lower center of gravity. The Airmatic system was supported by the ADS, active damping system.\n\nThe lower control arm in the previous S-Class was switched to a spring link and torque strut.\n\nOn the instrument cluster multi-function display, the AIRMATIC warning message says \"AIRMATIC\", \"VISIT WORKSHOP!\" with an graphic of a car with a little arrow pointing up when it may have issues.\n\nThe ABC system on the 1998-2005 S-Class used hydropneumatic suspension struts ABC was standard on the S 55 and S 600.\n\nThe car had an electronic stability control program and automatic slip control.\n\nIn 2005, the S-Class was the first vehicle to receive a TÜV Institute environmental certificate from the German Commission on Technical Compliance for environmentally friendly components. The improved environmental efficiency of the W220 manufacture process was judged approvingly.\n\nEdmunds gave the S-Class a 5 out of 5 reliability rating and MSN Autos assign an expert rating of 9.0 out of 10. By March 2011, Consumer Reports had changed its reliability ratings for the 2001 and 2002 S-Class as having improved to \"average\". Build quality was generally considered to be good. For instance, \"Forbes\" described the W220 S 500 as \"built remarkably well.\" Early W220s were recalled for issues with the trunk spring and the hydraulic fuel line; there were no recalls for the 2005 or 2006 model years.\n\nIn 2006, nearly 24,000 (95%) S-Class sold in China between late 1998 and early 2005 were recalled due to a fuel tank defect. The recall was limited to the S-Class cars sold in China; S-Class models sold elsewhere were unaffected.\n\nIn 2006, a recall was initiated due to illumination failures in the instrument cluster of some W220s .\n\nExamples of recalls in Australia include:\n\nSome other issues were noted with sensors or other components being potentially being damaged by water and/or heat. The model is also called the V220 (as opposed to W220).\n\nOne Canadian car site noted that older W220's can offer impressive features for the cost, provided that owners continue to maintain the vehicle. They noted a few key issues on later models including the air suspension and interior electronics. They also noted that over its production run Mercedes-Benz fixed many issues and there is also considerable variation in models depending how they were equipped.\n\nOne critical maintenance issue is the main ventilation drain (these are below the vents at the back of the hood/bonnet and below the windshield). If this drain becomes clogged such as from leaves or snow it can overflow, flooding the passenger compartment. When it overflows in can short out wiring in the car. There is an air and water vent on the right (passenger side) near the base of the windshield, under the hood, which among other features as a drain with a reed valve to allow water to drain out.\n\nThis issue was the subject of a Class-action lawsuit in the U.S. State of California.\n\nIn 2010, the United States Judge Howard Matz ruled on the settlement about this issue.\n\nThe air/water duct is drained by a reed valve, which if clogged can cause water to overflow into the passenger compartment. Other things that can cause water to enter an S-Class interior include the air conditioning condensation drain tubes \n\nThe permanent solution to prevent water from flooding the interior is to simply to remove the reed valve in the cowling drain so the water can flow straight and through the drain.\n\nAbout top speeds: The top speed of most models was limited to no more than 156 mph if it could be achieved, some models such as the CDI were slower. A stock German S 65 AMG S-Class (W220 model) is reported as a 12-second quarter mile. The vehicle can accelerate from 0 - 100 km/h (62 mph) in 4.4 s and 0 - 200 km/h (124 mph) in 13.1 seconds, for the German model.\n\nAn aftermarket version like the 2001 model year Brabus S V12 boosted the output of V-12 to at 5700 rpm and could do 0-60 mph (97 km/h) in about 5.4 seconds.\n\n\nThe naturally aspirated V-8 was boosted by up to 30 hp, but the turbo and super-charged version was boosted 100-120 hp by reputable tuning companies. An additional 200 hp could be achieved with extensive modifications going as far as improved heat management and modifications to the intercooler for the M275 V-12 twin-turbo. Potential points of modification include intake, exhaust, fuel systems, transmissions, and the ECU.\n\nAn example of an aftermarket version of the S-Class, was the 2001 Brabus S V12. This increased the displacement of the engine to 6.7 liters and the horsepower to 450. The changes also included interior luxury options like the BRABUS PC, enhanced leather trim options, and a 12-inch TFT (flat screen) display. The Brabus S V12 cost US$416,000 (416,000 DM) and needed any stock MB S 600 for the conversion. The Brabus had a top speed of almost 190 mph and various other changes, including different tires and rims (on the front 50.8 x 24.1 cm / 20.0 x 9.5 with 245/35ZR-20, and on the rear 50.8 x 24.1 cm / 20.0 x 9.5 also with 245/35ZR-20).\n\n\"examples\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818752", "title": "Frank Jaeger", "text": "Frank Jaeger\n\nFrank Jaeger may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1818768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818768", "title": "Ric Holt", "text": "Ric Holt\n\nRichard Craig Holt (February 13, 1941 – April 12, 2019) was an American-Canadian computer scientist. \n\nHolt was born on in 1941 in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, to Vashti Young and C.P. Holt, but later moved to Toronto, Canada. As a teenager, he competed in track and field. He graduated from Cornell University in 1964 in Engineering Physics. He spent a year in the Peace Corps in Nigeria, and then worked for IBM. He went back to Cornell and obtained a PhD in computer science in 1970 under Alan Shaw.\n\nHe joined the faculty of the University of Toronto from 1970 to 1997, and the faculty of the University of Waterloo from 1997 to his retirement in 2014. \n\nHolt's main research areas were operating systems, programming languages and software engineering, contributing many seminal results to each. His work includes foundational work on deadlock, development of a number of compilers and compilation techniques. His Turing programming language was used in universities and high schools in Canada and internationally. He also participated in the development of the Grok, Euclid, SP/k, and S/SL programming languages.\nFor many years, he ran a software company, Holt Software Associates (HSA), which created the Ready to Program environment still widely used in Canadian High Schools to teach programming.\n\nHolt served as president of Gravel Watch Ontario from 2003 until 2015.\n\nIn the fall of 2005, he was named #16 on Computing Canada's list of top 30 IT movers and shakers in the country for the last 30 years. In 2017, Holt was awarded the OS-CAN/INFO-CAN Lifetime Achievement Award.\n\nHolt died on April 12, 2019 on Quadra Island, British Columbia, Canada at the age of 78. He had Parkinson's disease and Lewy body dementia in his later years.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818790", "title": "Nanostray", "text": "Nanostray\n\nNanostray is a vertical scrolling shooter video game for the Nintendo DS. The user takes control of a futuristic spacecraft against a horde of enemies. A sequel, \"Nanostray 2\", was released in 2008.\n\nBasic gameplay consists of first defeating waves of many small enemies and then greater, stronger enemies. When all enemies in a wave are destroyed, a blue powerup that restores the power weapon bar is released. Enemies can also release coins when destroyed, worth some points. At the end of each level there is a boss that represents the theme of the level.\n\nThe game has three difficulty settings; Normal, Advanced, and Expert. Each progressive level diminishes the lives, energy, continues, and smart bombs replenished after the player loses a life. The Nintendo DS touch screen is used for boss scanning, radar, and weapon management.\n\nThere are four different types of weapons. The weapons range in projectile type from a basic forward-shooting laser, to a weapon that only shoots to the side, to a forcefield generator. Additionally, each weapon has a limited-use special attack, which, in essence, is a mightier version of the weapon's attack.\n\nThere are four game modes to play: Adventure, Arcade, Challenge, and Multiplayer.\n\nMost reviews focused on the impressive quality of the graphics. Nanostray has an average Metacritic score of 71.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818794", "title": "Sons of Elvis", "text": "Sons of Elvis\n\nSons of Elvis was an alternative rock group active in the early 1990s, best known for their hit single, \"Formaldehyde\".\n\nSons of Elvis was formed by musicians from Cleveland, Ohio. After winning some local airplay in Cleveland and building a small following, they relocated to New York City so that three of the members could attend college, at Fordham University in the Bronx. While there, two of the members also wrote a well received weekly music column, Ear Wax, for Fordham's alternative newspaper, The Paper. After a bidding war, they signed to small independent record label American Empire to release \"Glodean\", but the label went out of business quickly after signing them. Priority Records then picked up the group and released the \"Mrs. White\" disc (consisting mainly of tracks from \"Glodean\") before re-releasing \"Glodean\" in 1995. Lead single \"Formaldehyde\" received airplay at radio and on MTV, and was also featured on the soundtrack of the feature film \"Higher Learning,\" by director John Singleton. \"Glodean\" peaked at No. 23 on Billboard's Top Heatseekers chart in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818801", "title": "Washingtonia filifera", "text": "Washingtonia filifera\n\nWashingtonia filifera, also known as desert fan palm, California fan palm or California palm, is a flowering plant in the palm family (Arecaceae) native to the far southwestern United States and Baja California. Growing to tall by broad, it is an evergreen monocot with a tree-like growth habit. It has a sturdy, columnar trunk and waxy, fan-shaped (palmate) leaves.\n\nOther common names include California fan palm and petticoat palm.\nThe specific epithet \"filifera\" means \"thread-bearing\".\n\n\"Washingtonia filifera\" is the only palm native to the Western United States and one of the country's largest native palms, exceeded in height only by the Cuban or Florida royal palm.\n\nPrimary populations are found in desert riparian habitats at spring-fed and stream-fed oases in the Colorado Desert and at a few scattered locations in the Mojave Desert. It is also found near watercourses in the Sonoran Desert along the Gila River in Yuma, along the Hassayampa River and near New River in Maricopa County, and in portions of Pima County, Pinal County, Mohave County (along the Colorado River), and several other isolated locations in Clark County, Nevada. It is a naturalized species in the warm springs near Death Valley and in the extreme northwest of Sonora (Mexico). It is also reportedly naturalized in the Southeast, Florida, Hawaii, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and Australia.\n\n\"Washingtonia filifera\" grows to in height (occasionally to ) in ideal conditions. The California fan palm is also known as the desert fan palm, American cotton palm, and Arizona fan palm.\n\nThe fronds are up to long, made up of a petiole up to long, bearing a fan of leaflets long. They have long, thread-like, white fibers, and the petioles are pure green with yellow edges and \"filifera\"-filaments, between the segments. The trunk is gray and tan, and the leaves are gray green. When the fronds die, they remain attached and drop down to cloak the trunk in a wide skirt. The shelter that the skirt creates provides a microhabitat for many small birds and invertebrates.\n\n\"Washingtonia filifera\" typically lives from 80 to 250 years or more.\n\nDesert fan palms provide habitat for the giant palm-boring beetle, western yellow bat, hooded oriole, and many other bird species. Hooded orioles rely on the trees for food and places to build nests. Numerous insect species visit the hanging inflorescences that appear in late spring.\n\nHistorically, natural oases are mainly restricted to areas downstream from the source of hot springs, though water is not always visible at the surface.\n\nToday's oasis environment may have been protected from colder climatic changes over the course of its evolution. Thus, this palm is restricted by both water and climate to widely separated relict groves. The trees in these groves show little if any genetic differentiation, (through electrophoretic examination), suggesting that the genus is genetically very stable.\n\nGrazing animals can kill young plants through trampling, or by eating the terminus at the apical meristem, the growing portion of the plant. This may have kept palms restricted to a lesser range than indicated by the availability of water.\n\nThe palm boring beetle \"Dinapate wrightii\" (Bostrichidae) can chew through the trunks of this and other palms. Eventually, a continued infestation of beetles can kill various genera and species of palms. \"W. filifera\" appears to be resistant to the red palm weevil (\"Rhynchophorus ferrugineus\") via a mechanism of antibiosis — production of compounds lethal to the larvae.\n\nCurrently, the desert fan palm is experiencing a population and range expansion, perhaps due to global warming or removing excess mustangs.\n\nThe sweet fruit pulp of the fan palm is edible. The fruit was eaten raw, cooked, or ground into flour for cakes by Native Americans. The Cahuilla and related tribes used the leaves to make sandals, thatch roofs, and baskets. The stems were used to make cooking utensils. The Moapa band of Paiutes and other Southern Paiutes have written memories of using this palm's seed, fruit, or leaves for various purposes including starvation food. The bud (known as a heart of palm) has also been eaten.\n\nJoshua Tree National Park in the Mojave Desert preserves and protects healthy riparian palm habitat examples in the Little San Bernardino Mountains, and westward where water rises through the San Andreas Fault on the east valley side. In the central Coachella Valley, the Indio Hills Palms State Reserve and nearby Coachella Valley Preserve, other large oases are protected and accessible. The Santa Rosa and San Jacinto Mountains National Monument, and Anza-Borrego Desert State Park both have large and diverse \"W. filifera\" canyon oasis habitats.\n\n\"Washingtonia filifera\" is widely cultivated as an ornamental tree. It is one of the hardiest Coryphoidiae palms, rated as hardy to USDA hardiness zone 8. It can survive brief temperatures of with minor damage, and established plants have survived, with severe leaf damage, brief periods as low as . The plants grow best in Mediterranean climates, but can be found in humid subtropical climates such as eastern Australia and the southeastern USA. It has gained the Royal Horticultural Society's Award of Garden Merit.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818804", "title": "Campo Grande Atlético Clube", "text": "Campo Grande Atlético Clube\n\nCampo Grande Atlético Clube, or Campo Grande as they are usually called, is a Brazilian football team from Campo Grande neighborhood, Rio de Janeiro in Rio de Janeiro, founded on June 13, 1940.\n\nOn June 13, 1940, Campo Grande Atlético Clube was founded.\n\nIn 1979, the club played the Campeonato Brasileiro First Division for the first time. Campo Grande finished in the 27th position. The club reached the league's second stage.\n\nIn 1982, the club won its only national title so far, the Brazilian Second Division, after defeating CSA of Alagoas in the final. Campo Grande's Luisinho was the top goalscorer of the competition, with 10 goals. The club was promoted to tohe following year's first division.\n\nIn 1983, the club played the Campeonato Brasileiro First Division for the second time. The club was eliminated in the first stage, playing then a second stage qualification playoff against Paysandu. After defeating Paysandu, the club qualified to the second stage, finishing in the group's last position. Campo Grande finished in the competition's 24th place.\n\nIn 1991, Roberto Dinamite, Vasco da Gama's biggest idol and one of the most prolific Brazilian goal scorers ever (he has scored 698 goals in his career, most of them for Vasco), played for Campo Grande.\n\n\n\n\nCampo Grande's stadium is Estádio Ítalo del Cima, built in 1960, with a maximum capacity of 18,000 people.\n\nCampo Grande's colors are black and white. They usually play in black and white vertical stripes, black shorts and white socks. Its away kit is almost all-white, with the exception being its black socks.\n\nThe club's mascot is a rooster wearing Campo Grande's home kit and black football boots.\n\n\nVanderlei Luxemburgo started his career as a manager in 1983, coaching Campo Grande.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818815", "title": "Pluto (manga)", "text": "Pluto (manga)\n\n\"Pluto\" was a critical and commercial success, winning several awards, including the ninth Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize, and selling over 8.5 million copies. The series was licensed and released in English in North America by Viz Media, under the name \"Pluto: Urasawa x Tezuka\".\n\n\"Pluto\" follows the Europol robot detective Gesicht in his attempts to solve the case of a string of robot and human deaths around the world where all the victims have objects shoved into or positioned by their heads, imitating horns. The case becomes more puzzling when evidence suggests a robot is responsible for the murders, which would make it the first time a robot has killed a human in eight years. All seven of the great robots of the world, the most scientifically advanced which have the potential to become weapons of mass destruction, seem to be the killer's targets, and the murdered humans are connected to preserving the International Robot Laws which grant robots equal rights.\n\nNaoki Urasawa began \"Pluto\" after over a year of negotiating to get the rights to adapt Osamu Tezuka's \"Astro Boy\". With Astro/Atom's official birth date of April 7, 2003 approaching, Urasawa was initially going to do a limited or one-off manga in celebration. But due to the character's importance, he then suggested a long-term \"serious\" take on \"The Greatest Robot on Earth\" arc, which is his favorite. After re-reading it, he felt that some scenes were missing or different than he remembered, before realizing that he had created his own version of the story in his head.\n\nUrasawa, his \"producer\" Takashi Nagasaki, and an editor from Shogakukan approached Tezuka Productions with the idea. Tezuka's son Macoto Tezka was informed of the idea in winter 2002. But with a new anime adaptation and other events already in the works, he did not want it to feel as if they were capitalizing on the special occasion. He felt there would be plenty of opportunity to have other artists do it at a later date and politely turned Urasawa down. However, Urasawa persisted and asked for a meeting where he would show rough sketches and explain what kind of story he wanted to create. Macoto met with Urasawa, Nagasaki and others on March 28, 2003. Macoto made Urasawa promise not to imitate his father but make the story in his own style, and even asked him to rethink the character designs.\n\nFusanosuke Natsume pointed out that in \"Pluto\" Urasawa included references not only to other \"Astro Boy\" arcs, but to other works by Tezuka as well. Such as the characters Tawashi and Nakamura; the police car designed to look like a dog; Uran's encounter with animals; and an obsolete robot maid. He suspects the last is a reference to the \"Future\" volume of \"Phoenix\".\n\nAlthough people often call \"Pluto\" a dark take on a children's classic, Urasawa feels that the idea that Tezuka's work is lighthearted is a common misconception. He said that through its anime and various adaptations it has been \"reimagined as very wholesome and safe content, but if you really look at Tezuka's work on a deeper level, it's very dark. If you aim to properly adapt or remake any of Tezuka's work, you will naturally end up with a very dark story.\"\n\nWhen asked in 2019 what advice he would give to an artist who wanted to adapt one of his own works like he did \"Astro Boy\", Urasawa replied \"Don't do it!\" He explained that even though he understood the responsibility of the undertaking, the pressure and intense struggle was so much that he will never do it again and would advise a young artist to avoid it as well.\n\nWritten and illustrated by Urasawa, while also writing \"20th Century Boys\", \"Pluto\" was serialized in Shogakukan's \"Big Comic Original\" magazine from September 2003 to April 2009. The chapters were collected and published into eight \"tankōbon\" volumes, each of which had a deluxe edition that includes the color pages from the chapters' original magazine run released before the normal version; the first volume was published on September 30, 2004 and the last on June 19, 2009. Takashi Nagasaki, who would later go on to work with Urasawa on \"Billy Bat\" and \"Master Keaton Remaster\", is credited as the series' co-author. Macoto Tezka, Osamu Tezuka's son, supervised the series and Tezuka Productions is listed as having given cooperation.\n\nIt was licensed and released in English in North America by Viz Media, under the name \"Pluto: Urasawa x Tezuka\". They released all eight volumes, that include some color pages, between February 17, 2009 and April 6, 2010. \"Pluto\" has also received domestic releases in other foreign countries, such as in Spain by Planeta DeAgostini, Germany by Carlsen Comics, South Korea by Seoul Munhwasa, Italy by Panini Comics, France by Kana and in Dutch by Glénat.\n\nUniversal Pictures and Illumination acquired the rights to \"Pluto\" in 2010 for a live-action/CGI film. No news has emerged since.\n\nA play adaptation of \"Pluto\" that incorporated 3D imagery via projection mapping opened at Tokyo's Bunkamura Theatre Cocoon on January 9, 2015. Directed and choreographed by Sidi Larbi Cherkaoui, it starred Mirai Moriyama as Atom, Yasufumi Terawaki as Gesicht, Hiromi Nagasaku as both Uran and Helena, Akira Emoto as both Professor Tenma and Blau 1589, Kazutoyo Yoshimi as both Professor Ochanomizu and Dr. Roosevelt, and Yutaka Matsushige as Abullah.\n\nAn anime adaptation by Studio M2 was announced to be in production at the 2017 Annecy International Animated Film Festival in June 2017.\n\n\"Pluto\" has sold over 8.5 million volumes and has won and been nominated for numerous awards. It was awarded the ninth Tezuka Osamu Cultural Prize and an Excellence Prize at the seventh Japan Media Arts Festival, both in 2005. Marking Urasawa's second and third time receiving those honors respectively. The series was given the Seiun Award for Best Comic in 2010. In France, the manga won the Intergenerational Award at the Angoulême International Comics Festival and the Prix Asie-ACBD award at Japan Expo, both in 2011. \n\nThe American Young Adult Library Services Association named the first three volumes of \"Pluto\" some of their Top Ten Graphic Novels for Teens of 2009, likewise, the \"School Library Journal\" nominated the series as one of the Best Comics for Teens. At the 2010 Eisner Awards, Viz's English edition was nominated for Best Limited Series or Story Arc and Best U.S. Edition of International Material - Asia, additionally, Urasawa was nominated for the Best Writer/Artist award for both \"Pluto\" and \"20th Century Boys\". Viz's edition was also nominated for the Harvey Award in the Best American Edition of Foreign Material category.\n\nJoseph Luster of \"Otaku USA\" called \"Pluto\" \"flat-out incredible\" and felt it should be required reading, \"not just for fans of comics, but for fans of solid, absorbing stories.\" He said that, as a reimagining of another work, it \"goes above and beyond the call of duty, and there aren't many other series out there that can get me clamoring for the next set of chapters like this one does.\"\n\nIn her review, Deb Aoki of About.com claimed \"Pluto\" \"will suck you in with its masterful storytelling, and will break your heart with its uncommon emotional depth.\" and gave the first volume a five out of five rating. She also stated that the series conjures up \"thought-provoking questions about robots and what it means to be human.\" Manga critic Jason Thompson pointed out the series' obvious allusions to the real-life Iraq War; the United States of Thracia (United States of America) invaded Persia (Iraq) after falsely claiming they had robots of mass destruction (weapons of mass destruction).\n\nReviewing volume seven, Anime News Network's Carlo Santos felt the story got a lot more enjoyable with all the loose ends tied up and said Urasawa does a fine job of integrating Tezuka's design with his own style. However, he wrote that \"Urasawa continues to add pointless little flourishes to the story: references to Pinocchio, a creepy little children's song, a symbolic crack in a wall ... it probably all has some kind of thematic unity in his head, but it sure doesn't do much to advance the story.\" Santos strongly praised the final volume, saying it works on every level; with philosophical points of war and humanity and artificial intelligence, and feelings of love, hate, hope, and despair that tug at the heart.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818825", "title": "Jan Haaland", "text": "Jan Haaland\n\nJan Ingvald Meidell Haaland (born 18 February 1956) was the rector of the Norwegian School of Economics (NHH). He succeeded Per Ivar Gjærum in August 2005. Haaland is also professor of economics. His research has mainly focused on questions related to international trade.\n\nAfter growing up in Stavanger, Haaland was an educated siv.øk. from NHH in 1979 and continued on to receive a Doctor of Philosophy from the same institution in 1984. In addition to working at NHH he has worked at the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development, the University of Cambridge and the University of Southampton. \n\nMost of his research is regarding international economics and trade, international politics, economic integration and multinational corporations. He is also an associate of the Centre for Economic Policy Research in London. Between 1999 and 2001 he was Dean of the Department of Economics and since 2002 has been a member of the board of NHH.\n"}
{"id": "1818835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818835", "title": "Vladimir Radmanović", "text": "Vladimir Radmanović\n\nVladimir Radmanović (Serbian Cyrillic: Владимир Радмановић; born November 19, 1980) is a retired Serbian professional basketball player.\n\nIn Serbia he played for Crvena zvezda and FMP and in the National Basketball Association (NBA) he was a member of the Seattle SuperSonics, Los Angeles Clippers, Los Angeles Lakers, Charlotte Bobcats, Golden State Warriors, Atlanta Hawks and Chicago Bulls.\n\nRadmanović also represented his national team most notably at the 2002 FIBA World Championship.\n\nRadmanović was born into a Serb family in the eastern Herzegovinian city of Trebinje in SR Bosnia and Herzegovina, SFR Yugoslavia where his father Stevan (a JNA colonel) was stationed at the time. His family originates however from the Dalmatian coastal town of Zadar in Croatia. Radmanović grew up in various locales dictated by the requirements of his father's profession.\n\nIn Yugoslavia, Radmanović played basketball for KK Crvena zvezda and KK FMP. During the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia in 1999, Radmanović played at the Nike Hoop Summit in Tampa for which he was called up during the regular season.\n\nHe entered the NBA in 2001.\n\nRadmanović was selected by the Seattle SuperSonics as the 12th pick of 2001 NBA draft. Although consistent throughout his first two seasons, Radmanović became a candidate for the NBA Most Improved Player Award in the 2003–04 season, when he averaged 12 points and 5.3 rebounds per game mostly as a sixth man. He established himself as a respectable three-point shooter, making around 40% of his attempts.\n\nHe was integral to the Sonics' success in the 2004–05 season as a sixth man. He averaged 11.8 points per game and 4.6 rebounds, helping the Sonics win their first-round playoff matchup against the Sacramento Kings. On January 26, 2005, he made a career-high 8 three-point field goals against the Los Angeles Lakers.\n\nAfter the 2004–05 season, Radmanović turned down a six-year, $42 million contract offer to re-sign with the Sonics, and instead decided to sign a one-year deal, making him an unrestricted free agent after next season.\n\nHe was nicknamed \"Broadway Joe\" by SuperSonics announcer Kevin Calabro, after his resemblance to NFL quarterback Joe Namath.\n\nAfter voicing his frustration for not being a starter, on February 14, 2006, Radmanović was traded from the SuperSonics to the Los Angeles Clippers for power forward Chris Wilcox.\n\nThe change of venue greatly improved his performance. Radmanović averaged 10.7 ppg, a career-best averages of 5.7 rpg and 2.1 apg, while shooting 41.8% of his three-pointers.\n\nOn July 13, 2006, Radmanović signed with the Los Angeles Lakers. Although he was believed to be a lock to re-sign with the Los Angeles Clippers (he at first accepted their offer at an estimated $31M over five years), he changed his mind after being promised a starting job with the Los Angeles Lakers. Although the Lakers were offering the same amount of money as Clippers, Radmanović was persuaded to join the team by Kobe Bryant, Phil Jackson, Magic Johnson and his good friend, Vlade Divac, who were all convinced his shooting and playing opportunities would greatly increase in the Lakers' triangle offense. Jackson has also called Vladimir a \"space cadet\" and \"my favorite Martian\" in reference to his being out of position and taking wild three point shots. He was also referred to as \"Vlad Rad.\" He started all 21 games in the 2007–08 Playoffs for the Lakers, and was high scorer for one game and high rebounder for several games.\n\nOn February 18, 2007, Radmanović told the Lakers that he had separated his shoulder, when he fell on a patch of ice in Park City, Utah the day before, during the weekend of the 2007 NBA All-Star Game and would be out for approximately eight weeks.\n\nHowever, on February 23, 2007, Radmanović revealed that he had actually hurt himself in a fall while snowboarding. Radmanović's Lakers contract banned him from taking part in activities that involve significant risk of injury, including skiing and snowboarding. An NBA league source said that voiding the contract would be extremely unlikely, with a suspension or fine more likely. This proved to be true, as he was fined $500,000 for lying about the injury.\n\nOn February 7, 2009, Radmanović was traded to the Charlotte Bobcats in exchange for forward Adam Morrison and guard Shannon Brown. Bobcats general manager Rod Higgins said Radmanović would likely play both small and power forward.\n\nOn November 16, 2009, Radmanović was traded to the Golden State Warriors along with Raja Bell in exchange for Stephen Jackson and Acie Law.\n\nOn December 9, 2011, Radmanović was signed by the Atlanta Hawks. In the Hawks' first game of the season on December 26, 2011, Radmanović scored 17 points with four steals and five assists in 27 minutes.\n\nOn July 19, 2012, Radmanović signed a one-year deal with the Chicago Bulls.\n\nIn October 2013, Radmanović announced his retirement. After 12 seasons in the NBA, he appeared in 737 regular season games, shot 37.8 percent from three, and averaged 8.0 points in roughly 22 minutes per game.\nRadmanović's first taste of international play was when he won the European Championship for Men '22 and Under' in 1998 with the FR Yugoslavia youth team.\n\nRadmanović then went on to play for the senior team of FR Yugoslavia/Serbia and Montenegro at three major tournaments.\n\nRadmanović was set to debut for the senior national team at the 2001 EuroBasket but he turned down a call-up from coach Svetislav Pešić in order to focus on preparing to enter the NBA.\n\nRadmanović made his debut for the senior side at the 2002 FIBA World Championship in Indianapolis where Yugoslavia won gold. Radmanović (and his Seattle team mate Predrag Drobnjak) did not see many minutes at the tournament, entering the court in only three games. During half-time of the semifinals against New Zealand in which the favored Yugoslavia was losing, coach Svetislav Pešić angrily ostracized Radmanović from the team because Radmanović was eating a banana in the change room while Pešić was giving instructions. Radmanović watched the rest of the game from the stands while Yugoslavia won in an uncertain finish. Radmanović didn't play in the final against Argentina either as Yugoslavia won 84–77. After the final, there was another controversy at the podium during the medal ceremony as Pešić instructed Aleksandar Smiljanić (who was on the preliminary roster but did not make the final cut) to put on Radmanović's jersey and to receive a medal instead of Radmanović. Radmanović later called the tournament a \"big life experience\" for him.\n\nRadmanović skipped out on the 2003 EuroBasket but he did take part in the 2004 Olympic tournament where Serbia and Montenegro was eliminated in the preliminary round.\n\nRadmanović was coming out of an excellent season with Seattle and the return of Željko Obradović as national team head coach brought back enthusiasm to both players and fans alike. Radmanović played an excellent first game at the tournament, scoring 21 points against Argentina but an unbelievable last-second shot from Manu Ginóbili defeated the Serbia and Montenegro side by a score of 83–82. In the next game, Serbia and Montenegro defeated future silver medalist Italy but the next few games after that were debacles. Namely, Serbia and Montenegro lost against New Zealand, Spain and in the end against China in the game that would have advanced them further. Radmanović's minutes and contribution decreased as the tournament progressed. Serbia and Montenegro ended up defeating Angola in the classification game for 11th place held in Athens. The 11th place finish was the worst in the country's Olympic basketball history.\n\nRadmanović participated at the 2005 EuroBasket.\n\nThe 2005 EuroBasket held in Serbia and Montenegro ended up being the last international tournament Radmanović would take part in. In the deciding game against France, Radmanović went 4/5 from the three-point line but coach Obradović subbed him off the court when the game was being decided. Serbia and Montenegro lost that game 74–71 and bowed out of the tournament in the play-off round of the knockout stage. In four games played, Radmanović averaged 9 points and 2.5 rebounds per game. After their poor outing at the tournament, coach Obradović accused a few players for an irresponsible approach to the national team.\n\nPrior to EuroBasket 2007, Radmanović said that he \"won't accept a call-up only to sit on the bench and watch others play.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818839", "title": "Juan Gutiérrez de Padilla", "text": "Juan Gutiérrez de Padilla\n\nJuan Gutiérrez de Padilla (ca. 15901664) was a Spanish-Mexican composer of the Renaissance period.\n\nHe was born in Málaga, Spain but moved to Puebla, Mexico, in 1620 to compose music in the New World. At the time New Spain was a viceroyalty of Spain that included modern day Mexico, Guatemala, the Philippines and other parts of Central America and the Caribbean. Padilla is one of the more important composers represented in the manuscripts at Puebla, Mexico and the Hackenberry collection in Chicago, Illinois. He worked at Puebla de Los Angeles, Mexico, which in Baroque times was a bigger religious center than Mexico City itself. He was appointed \"maestro de capilla\" of Puebla Cathedral in 1628.\n\nHe is to be distinguished from a younger Juan de Padilla, who was \"maestro de capilla\" at Zamora, Spain (1661-1663), and Toledo (1663-1673).\n\nThe majority of his vast output (over 700 pieces survive) include sacred motets, often for double choir, in the Renaissance style or \"stile antico\" as well as sacred \"villancicos.\" It often includes accompaniments for organ or various stringed instruments.\n\nPadilla's music is rather difficult to get hold of:\n\"Mapa Mundi\", publish singing scores of some of this music including the double choir piece \"Deus in Adiutorium Meum Intende.\" Alfredston Music can provide instrumental parts for the smaller pieces in their collection.\n\nThere are at least 2 Ph.D. theses with Padilla's music in the appendices:\nS. Barwick, \"Sacred Vocal Polyphony in Early Colonial Mexico\", (diss., Harvard Univ., 1949), includes the 2nd \"St. Matthew Passion\"; and A. Ray / A. R. Catalyne, \"The Double-choir Music of Juan de Padilla\", (diss., Univ. of Southern California, 1953).\n\n\nBenjamín Juárez Echenique has recorded a Mass and two sets of Christmas \"villancicos\" for Urtext digital classics: \n"}
{"id": "1818842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818842", "title": "Conspiracy of Fools", "text": "Conspiracy of Fools\n\nConspiracy of Fools is a 2005 book by Kurt Eichenwald detailing the Enron scandal.\n\n\"Conspiracy of Fools\" tells the story of the 2001 collapse of Enron. Enron's Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Andrew Fastow is depicted as voraciously greedy, using front corporations and partnerships, paying himself \"management\" and \"consultant\" fees as if he were an outsider, all while cooking Enron's books to show fictitious profits. In the 1980s there were questionable activities at the company, but the bulk of the events depicted in the book occur from 1997 onward and led to Enron's collapse.\n\nIn addition to Fastow, there are stories of the complicity of Enron's auditors (at Arthur Andersen), their lawyers (internal and external), the senior management (Kenneth Lay and Jeffrey Skilling), Fastow's partner in many of his deals, Michael Kopper, and Enron's board of directors.\n\nThe picture that emerges of Enron is that of an out-of-control corporate culture that ignored the basic principles of business, allowing it to be manipulated by greedy incompetents for their own personal gain. The focus on reporting profits — rather than actually making money — created a situation that both encouraged and enabled a small group of insider criminals to \"game the system\". Enron's business losses were masked by accounting tricks, while the insiders raked off huge \"profits\" and bonuses for themselves.\n\nThe game was eventually undone by huge losses, bad investments and the structure of the outside partnerships themselves, the solvency of which depended on ever-rising Enron stock prices. When Enron's stock began to fall, the financial structures imploded, leaving Enron with billions of dollars in losses and few assets.\n\nKurt also reminds readers that Enron fell not just because of the greed of the company people, but also because of the greed of thousands of investors who fell for this Ponzi scheme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818846", "title": "News leak", "text": "News leak\n\nA news leak is the unsanctioned release of confidential information to news media. It can also be the premature publication of information by a news outlet, of information that it has agreed not to release before a specified time, in violation of a news embargo.\n\nLeaks are often made by employees of an organization who happened to have access to interesting information but who are not officially authorized to disclose it to the press. They may believe that doing so is in the public interest due to the need for speedy publication, because it otherwise would not have been able to be made public, or to rally opinion to their side of an internal debate. This type of leak is common; as former White House advisor Sidney Souers advised a young scholar in 1957, \"there are no leaks in Washington, only plants.\"\n\nOn the other hand, leaks can sometimes be made simply as self-promotion, to elevate the leaker as a person of importance. Leaks can be intentional or unintentional. A leaker may be doing the journalist a personal favor (possibly in exchange for future cooperation), or simply wishes to disseminate secret information in order to affect the news. The latter type of leak is often made anonymously.\n\nSometimes partial information is released to the media off the record in advance of a press release to \"prepare\" the press or the public for the official announcement. This may also be intended to allow journalists more time to prepare more extensive coverage, which can then be published immediately after the official release. This technique is designed to maximize the impact of the announcement. It might be considered an element of political 'spin', or news management.\n\nSome people who leak information to the media are seeking to manipulate coverage. Cloaking information in secrecy may make it seem more valuable to journalists, and anonymity reduces the ability of others to cross-check or discredit the information. \n\nSome leaks are made in the open; for example, politicians who (whether inadvertently or otherwise) disclose classified or confidential information while speaking to the press.\n\nLeaks can have strong consequences. President Richard M. Nixon was enraged by the existence of leaks, and according to his former staffer William Safire, that rage coupled with the president's lifelong disdain of the press set the environment that led to Nixon's downfall. Most immediately, fear of further leaks after the Pentagon Papers were published in 1971, such as of the Secret Bombing of Cambodia, led to the formation of the \"White House Plumbers\" unit (so named because they wanted to fix leaks), which conducted the break-in that led to the Watergate scandal and Nixon's eventual resignation in 1974.\n\nThere are many reasons why information might be leaked. Some of these include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818848", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818848", "title": "WWSI", "text": "WWSI\n\nWWSI, virtual channel 62 (UHF digital channel 28), is a Telemundo-owned-and-operated television station serving Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States that is licensed to Mount Laurel, New Jersey. The station is owned by the Telemundo Station Group subsidiary of NBCUniversal, as part of a duopoly with Philadelphia-licensed NBC owned-and-operated station WCAU (channel 10); NBCUniversal, a subsidiary of locally based media firm Comcast, owns both networks, along with regional sports network NBC Sports Philadelphia. WWSI and WCAU share studios within the Comcast Technology Center on Arch Street in Center City, with some operations remaining at their former main studio at the corner of City Avenue and Monument Road in Bala Cynwyd, along the Philadelphia–Montgomery county line. The two stations also share transmitter facilities in the Roxborough section of Philadelphia.\n\nPrior to the station's formal sign-on, channel 62's original owners held a construction permit under the WDKZ call letters beginning in 1989, which subsequently changed to WACI that same year. In 2000, the callsign on the license was changed to WPHA. The station formally signed on the air as WWSI on January 17, 2001, originally licensed to Atlantic City, New Jersey, with transmitter in Waterford Township. It acquired the Telemundo affiliation for the Philadelphia market (originally seen on Wilmington, Delaware-based WTGI—channel 61, now Ion Television owned-and-operated station WPPX-TV—until 1998, then WTVE—channel 51—in Reading, Pennsylvania from 1998 to 2000). WWSI launched its website in 2007.\n\nIn January 2008, Hispanic Broadcasters Corporation agreed to sell WWSI to ZGS Communications for $10 million. The sale to ZGS was finalized on March 11 of that year.\n\nOn March 21, 2013, NBCUniversal entered into an agreement to acquire WWSI from ZGS Communications for $20 million. Prior to the sale agreement, WWSI had been the largest station (in terms of market size) aligned with Telemundo that was not an owned-and-operated station of the network. The deal created a duopoly with NBC-owned Philadelphia station WCAU. The sale was completed on July 2.\n\nThe station's digital signal is multiplexed:\nWWSI discontinued regular programming on its analog signal, over UHF channel 62, on June 12, 2009, the official date in which full-power television stations in the United States transitioned from analog to digital broadcasts under federal mandate. The station's digital signal remained on its pre-transition UHF channel 49. Through the use of PSIP, digital television receivers display the station's virtual channel as its former UHF analog channel 62, which was among the high band UHF channels (52-69) that were removed from broadcasting use as a result of the transition. Until 2018, 49.3 (virtual 10.3) was utilized as a simulcast of WCAU. The sub-channel was signed on in order to keep NBC programming available in areas channel 10's main signal does not reach over the air after the network terminated their affiliation with Wildwood-licensed WMGM-TV.\n\nOn April 13, 2017, it was revealed that WWSI's over-the-air spectrum had been sold in the FCC's spectrum reallocation auction, fetching $125.9 million. WWSI did not sign off, but is sharing broadcast spectrum with sister station WCAU. NBC stated that WCAU had a better signal than that of WWSI. Because WCAU's signal does not sufficiently cover Atlantic City proper, WWSI changed its city of license from Atlantic City to Mount Laurel.\n\nFollowing the acquisition of WWSI, NBCUniversal announced plans to develop a news department for the station, with plans to debut half-hour newscasts at 6 and 11 p.m. starting January 6, 2014.\n\nThe newscasts, titled \"Noticiero Telemundo 62\" began on January 13, 2014, one week from the original planned start date. The newscast name was later changed to \"WWSI Telemundo News\" for unknown reasons in late January. WWSI maintains its own control room, which then runs through WCAU's main Digital Operations Center.\n\nThe station hired 15 staff members for its news operation (including journalists, reporters, producers, anchors and photographers). On October 21, 2013, WWSI announced the hirings of Claribel Collazo (previously with Orlando Telemundo affiliate WTMO) as its assistant news director and Ramón Luis Zayas, former news anchor of Telemundo's morning program \"Un Nuevo Día,\" as anchor of the evening newscasts. On November 3, 2014, the 14 Telemundo O&O's, including WWSI, launched a 5:30 p.m. newscast. This makes WWSI the first Spanish-language station in Philadelphia to have an hour-long evening newscast.\n\nThe station launched additional 6 a.m. and noon newscasts to lead into Telemundo's national morning and mid-day news programs on April 2, 2018.\n\nOn October 21, 2018, Telemundo 62 debuted their new studio in the new Comcast Technology Center, the same day that NBC 10 debuted their new studio.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818852", "title": "Baggage handler", "text": "Baggage handler\n\nIn the airline industry, a baggage handler is a person who loads and unloads baggage (suitcases or luggage), and other cargo (airfreight, mail, counter-to-counter packages) for transport via aircraft. With most airlines, the formal job title is \"fleet service agent/clerk\", though the position is commonly known amongst airline employees as a \"ramp agent\", due to the job's location on the airport ramp (tarmac).\n\nWithin the airline industry, a baggage handler is often referred to as a \"rampie\" or \"ramper\": one who handles cargo on the \"ramp\" (the Aircraft Operations Area or AOA; outside the airline industry, the ramp is frequently referred to as the \"tarmac\", a term popularized by the media). Offensive terms for rampie/ramper include \"ramp rat,\" \"bag smasher\", \"bag jockey\", \"luggage monkey\", and \"thrower.\"\n\nA baggage handler also works jobs which are out of view of the flying public, including the bag room, operations (or load control), and the air freight warehouse. Some of these jobs have union representation and due to this, baggage handlers can be very well compensated with an above average pay scale and good medical, retirement and benefits packages.\n\nWhen baggage is checked in at the ticket counter or with a sky cap (where it receives a bag tag indicating the passenger's itinerary), it is often placed onto a moving bag belt which carries the baggage to the bag room. This is where numerous checked bags are sorted so that they will be loaded onto the proper flight. The bag tag which was previously affixed to the baggage during check-in is then read by a baggage handler and placed into the proper bag cart (usually a 4-wheeled trailer) or Unit Load Device (ULD; a machine-loadable container). The bag cart or ULD is then eventually pulled from the bag room by a bag tug and out to the aircraft for loading by baggage handlers.\n\nIn addition to \"pushing\" an aircraft from the terminal gate (with a \"push back\" or \"tow motor\") to position it for engine start and eventual taxi, baggage handlers also may tow aircraft to and from another gate or to a \"remote\" or RON (\"remain over night\") parking area. There will be a mechanic in the flight deck 'riding the brakes', who communicates with ATC ground control (for movement clearance), and operates the APU (\"auxiliary power unit\"), brakes, lights; the agent will operate the tow-tractor. This applies only to the \"Non-Movement Area\" of the airport, the part of the airport ramp where ramp agents can operate. Ramp agents cannot operate within the Movement Area, reserved for aircraft and emergency equipment, which is controlled by the Air Traffic Control Tower. In some union-negotiated airlines or stations this job could also be done by the baggage handler.\n\nAn aircraft has weight and balance limitations in order to ensure safe operation. There is a limit to how much a loaded aircraft can weigh; in addition, the cargo, passenger and fuel load must be distributed so that the aircraft is \"in balance\"—in other words, not too nose-heavy or tail-heavy. One of the jobs of the operations agent is to ensure that the aircraft—as finally loaded—is \"legal\" (within safe limits) before the aircraft departs the gate. Upon satisfaction of this mandated requirement, that data is used to generate information which the pilot requires in order to ensure the safe operation of the aircraft.\n\nThe air freight warehouse is where inbound and outbound air freight is processed. It is usually located on or adjacent to airport property and is usually separate from the passenger terminal. This is a secure (sterile) area where only authorized persons are allowed access. If inbound international shipments are involved and have not been cleared by customs, those shipments (and the warehouse) may be \"in bond\", which requires additional security clearance/authorization of employees.\n\nResponsible for many different job functions; usually a team of rampers who report directly to him or her. Crew chiefs are responsible for ensuring that an aircraft has been loaded to the specifications of the load agent, and reporting any discrepancies to management. Usually this job has a premium rate of pay for the extra responsibilities.\n\nThe people working on the ramp, typically seen loading bags, are referred to as \"ramp agents\". Among other duties, they must ensure that arriving aircraft are unloaded promptly. The ramp agents will also load departing aircraft. They must sometimes account for the baggage loaded into each compartment to ensure proper weight and balance, although this job is often the responsibility of flight operations staff.\n\nThis term is loosely used to refer to any agent who operates a vehicle that is used to transfer bags from one aircraft to another or to carry bags from the \"bag room\" to the correct aircraft. Another common term for this position is \"runner\". At the airline's hub locations, the agent responsible for meeting aircraft and transferring baggage directly from an inbound aircraft to the correct outbound aircraft is termed a \"connections runner\", often shortened to \"connects\" and abbreviated as \"conx\".\n\nThe agent in charge of delivering bags from an inbound aircraft to the baggage claim carousel.\n\nThe lavatory or \"lav\" agent is responsible for removing waste matter from the lavatories of incoming aircraft, by flushing the lavatory system. Surprisingly, the lesser physical demands of this position put it in equal or higher demand with other positions. In stations with higher volumes of passenger traffic, lavatory agents will usually use trucks adapted with large tanks on board that do not need to be emptied as often. These are also configured to facilitate access to the waste ports of the aircraft, which can be out of reach by other means. In places where fewer or smaller aircraft are being serviced, a \"lav cart\" (essentially a small lav truck pulled behind a tug) is used to service the lavatories.\n\nAs mail and freight arrives at a destination to either terminate at that location or continue on to another destination, certified agents handle and deliver it. They are responsible for scanning each package and delivering it to its proper aircraft.\n\nAs baggage is delivered into the bag room via conveyor belt it is the Bag Room agent's job to sort bags into carts according to routing.\n\nStation agents are cross-trained to work both as a baggage handler, and also work in positions involving customer service. Typically, station agents are used at smaller airports that do not handle as many flights as major airports. For example, an airline that has a smaller operation at Raleigh–Durham International Airport might have its employees check in passengers, then have the same employees load, and push the aircraft.\n\n\nRamp agents work in a hazardous environment, and receive annual training on safety and proper ways to work in an airport environment. Training is often provided by the particular company or airline, and usually involves mandatory training by the Federal Aviation Administration and the specific airport management. Hearing tests are usually required upon employment, since working near aircraft engines can strain the eardrums, and have long-term effects. Some ramp agents eventually have back problems from working in enclosed spaces inside an aircraft's cargo compartment, or loading cargo incorrectly.\n\nFor narrow body aircraft (e.g. Boeing 737, 757), every checked bag is required to be manually transferred to the airplane cargo compartments by carrier baggage handlers. Bags weigh an average of 32 lbs (14 kg) each, but many checked bags exceed the airline allowable weight of 50 lbs (23 kg). Manual lifting and handling of these bags is considered the main risk factor for work-related musculoskeletal disorders (WMSDs) among baggage handlers. Other factors may increase the risk of WMSDs, including time pressure, and awkward and restricted postures in small cargo compartments. ~In the United States, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) studied the effectiveness of lifting assist devices and other control methods to reduce the risk of WMSDs \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818859", "title": "Keith Ferguson (voice actor)", "text": "Keith Ferguson (voice actor)\n\nKeith James Ferguson (born February 26, 1972) is an American voice actor. He is perhaps best known for his roles as Bloo from \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\", Basch fon Ronsenburg from \"Final Fantasy XII\", Marluxia from \"Kingdom Hearts\", Lord Hater from \"Wander Over Yonder\", Lord Saladin from \"Destiny\" and \"Destiny 2\" and Reaper from \"Overwatch\". He also provides a number of sound-alike portrayals, including Harrison Ford's Han Solo and Indiana Jones in \"Robot Chicken\" and Lightning McQueen in the \"Cars\" video games and shorts, replacing Owen Wilson.\n\nFerguson was born in Los Angeles, California on February 26, 1972.\n\nAfter studying theatrical performance and creative writing at the University of the Pacific and University of Southern California, Ferguson worked behind the scenes in daytime television production while occasionally finding time to perform in local theatre productions and improvisation groups.\n\nTowards the end of his production career, he actively began his pursuit of a career in voice-over. In 1999, while working on what would turn out to be his last full-time position in television production, a voice-over agent named Pat Brady, after discovering Ferguson the week prior in a voice-over workshop in Toluca Lake, California, and before even officially signing with him for representation, sent him out on what would be his first professional voice-over audition (a sound-alike for Keanu Reeves in a 60-second radio spot satirizing \"The Matrix\" for the former Hollywood Video movie-rental franchise). He ended up booking the role from this first VO audition, after which he officially signed with Pat Brady who, through two talent agencies, would continue to represent him to this day.\n\nIn 2000, he gained his first experience in animation voice-over alongside Rob Paulsen and David Sobolov having booked the role of Ray on a former, somewhat obscure CG animated web-series entitled \"Li'l Green Men\" featured on Warner Bros. former website \"Entertaindom.\" After the next 3 years while building up his voice-over repertoire with various roles in commercial spots, video games, animation and sound-alike voice-matching for various films, he would be cast in one of the first of his more notable roles being that of Bloo in \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\" created by \"The Powerpuff Girls\" animator Craig McCracken. This was accompanied by other notable performances such as General \"Thunderbolt\" Ross in the animated series \"\", Friend Owl in the feature \"Bambi II\", as well as his recurring portrayal as Harrison Ford's Han Solo and Indiana Jones in \"Robot Chicken\" along with the . He reprised his Han Solo character in \"The Lego Movie\".\n\nAmidst further various vocal appearances in animation, a few of which include credits on \"Family Guy\", \"Adventure Time\", \"Phineas and Ferb\", \"\", \"The Grim Adventures of Billy and Mandy\", \"Legion of Super Heroes\", and \"Harvey Birdman, Attorney at Law\", Ferguson also found a role in \"Cars Toons: Mater's Tall Tales\" subbing for Owen Wilson as Lightning McQueen. Ferguson has also done voice work in video games; notable roles include Basch fon Ronsenburg in \"Final Fantasy XII\", Gabranth in \"Dissidia Final Fantasy\" and \"Dissidia 012 Final Fantasy\" and Number XI Organization XIII member Marluxia in \"\".\n\nFerguson was also vocally featured as two differently styled race-announcers in two TV commercials for the sports beverage, Vitamin Water; one featuring race-car driver Carl Edwards with Ralph Macchio paying homage to his role in \"The Karate Kid\", and the other a Super Bowl ad featuring Shaquille O'Neal as an unlikely victorious horse-race jockey.\n\nFerguson's mother is a retired probate estate specialist whilst his father was a well-known pianist who was one of Southern California's popular piano men until his death in 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818864", "title": "Anglo-Cherokee War", "text": "Anglo-Cherokee War\n\nThe Anglo–Cherokee War (1758–1761; in the Cherokee language: the \"\"war with those in the red coats\"\" or \"\"War with the English\"\"), was also known from the Anglo-European perspective as the Cherokee War, the Cherokee Uprising, or the Cherokee Rebellion. The war was a conflict between British forces in North America and Cherokee Indian tribes during the French and Indian War. The British and the Cherokee had been allies at the start of the war, but each party had suspected the other of betrayals. Tensions between British-American settlers and the Cherokee increased during the 1750s, culminating in open hostilities in 1758.\n\nAfter siding with the Province of Carolina in the Tuscarora War of 1711–1715, the Cherokee had turned on their British allies at the outbreak of the Yamasee War of 1715–1717, until switching sides, once again, midway through the war. This action ensured the defeat of the Yamasee. The Cherokee then remained allies of the British until the French and Indian War.\n\nAt the 1754 outbreak of the war, the Cherokee were allies of the British, taking part in campaigns against Fort Duquesne (at Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania) and the Shawnee of the Ohio Country. In 1755, a band of Cherokee 130-strong under Ostenaco (or \"Ustanakwa\") of \"Tamali\" (Tomotley) took up residence in a fortified town at the mouth of the Ohio River at the behest of the Iroquois (who were also British allies).\n\nFor several years, French agents from Fort Toulouse had been visiting the Overhill Cherokee on the Hiwassee and Tellico Rivers, and had made inroads into those places. The strongest pro-French Cherokee leaders were Mankiller (\"Utsidihi\") of \"Talikwa\"(Tellico Plains), Old Caesar of Chatuga (or \"Tsatugi\", Chatooga), and Raven (\"Kalanu\") of \"Ayuhwasi\" (Hiwassee)\n. The \"First Beloved Man\" (or \"Uku\") of the nation, Conocotocko (called \"Old Hop\"), was very pro-French, as was his nephew, Conockotocko (\"Standing Turkey\"), who succeeded him at his death in 1760.\n\nThe former site of the Coosa Chiefdom was reoccupied in 1759 by a Muscogee contingent under Big Mortar (\"Yayatustanage\") in support of the pro-French Cherokee then residing in Great Tellico and Chatuga. This was a step toward his planned alliance of Muscogee, Cherokee, Shawnee, Chickasaw, and Catawba (which would have been the first of its kind in the South). Although such an alliance did not come into being until the days of Dragging Canoe, Big Mortar still rose to leading chief of the Muscogee after the French and Indian War.\n\nThe Anglo–Cherokee War broke out in 1758 when Virginia militia attacked Moytoy (\"Amo-adawehi\") of Citico in retaliation for the alleged theft of some horses by the Cherokee. Moytoy's reaction was to lead retaliatory raids on the Yadkin and Catawba Rivers in North Carolina which began a domino effect that ended with the murders of 23 Cherokee hostages at Fort Prince George near Keowee and the massacre of the garrison of Fort Loudoun near Chota (\"Itsati\").\n\nThese events ushered in a war which didn't end until 1761. The Cherokee were led by \"Aganstata\" of Chota, Attakullakulla (\"Atagulgalu\") of Tanasi, Ostenaco of Tomotley, Wauhatchie (\"Wayatsi\") of the Lower Towns, and Round O of the Middle Towns.\n\nDuring the second year of the French and Indian War, the British had sought Cherokee assistance against the French and their Indian allies.\n\nThe English had reports, which proved accurate, that indicated the French were planning to build forts in Cherokee territory (as they had already done with Ft. Charleville at Great Salt Lick on the Cumberland River); Ft. Toulouse, near present-day Montgomery, Alabama; Ft. Rosalie at Natchez, Mississippi; Ft. St. Pierre at modern day Yazoo, Mississippi; and Ft. Tombeckbe on the Tombigbee River). Once the Cherokee agreed to be their allies, the British hastened to build forts of their own in the Cherokee lands, completing Fort Prince George near Keowee in South Carolina (among the Lower Towns); and Fort Loudoun (near Chota at the mouth of the Tellico River) in 1756. Once the forts were built, the Cherokee raised close to 700 warriors to fight in western Virginia Colony under Ostenaco. Oconostota and Attakullakulla led another large group to attack Fort Toulouse.\n\nIn 1758, the Cherokee participated in the taking of Fort Duquesne (present-day Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.) However, they felt their efforts were unappreciated. While traveling through Virginia, on their way home, several Cherokee were murdered by Virginians. The Cherokee had been promised supplies, but misunderstood where they were to get them from. After taking some horses they believed were rightly theirs, several Virginians killed and scalped between 30 and 40 of them. Later, the Virginians claimed the scalps as those of Shawnees and collected bounties for them.\n\nWhile some Cherokee leaders still called for peace, others led retaliatory raids on outlying pioneer settlements. The Cherokee finally declared open war against the British in 1759. A number of Muskogee under Big Mortar moved up to Coosawatie. These people had long been French allies in support of the Cherokee pro-French faction centered in Great Tellico.\n\nThe governor of South Carolina, William Henry Lyttelton, embargoed all gunpowder shipments to the Cherokee and raised an army of 1,100 men which marched to confront the Lower Towns of the Cherokee. Desperate for ammunition for their fall and winter hunts, the nation sent a delegation of moderate chiefs to negotiate. The twenty-nine chiefs were taken prisoner as hostages and sent to Fort Prince George, escorted by the provincial army. Lyttleton thought this would ensure peace.\n\nGovernor Lyttleton returned to Charleston, but the Cherokee were still angry, and continued to attack frontier settlements into 1760. In February 1760, they attacked Fort Prince George in an attempt to rescue their hostages. The fort's commander was killed. His replacement massacred all of the hostages and fended off the attack. The Cherokee also attacked Fort Ninety Six, but it withstood the siege.\n\nThe Cherokee expanded their retaliatory campaign into North Carolina, as far east as modern day Winston-Salem. An attack on Fort Dobbs in North Carolina was repulsed by General Hugh Waddell. However, lesser settlements in the North and South Carolina back-country quickly fell to Cherokee raids.\n\nGovernor Lyttleton appealed for help to Jeffrey Amherst, the British commander in North America. Amherst sent Archibald Montgomerie with an army of 1,200 troops (the Royal Scots and Montgomerie's Highlanders) to South Carolina. Montgomerie's campaign razed some of the Cherokee Lower Towns, including Keowee. It ended with a defeat at Echoee (\"Itseyi\") Pass when Montgomerie tried to enter the Middle Towns territory. Later in 1760, the Overhill Cherokee defeated the British colonists at Fort Loudoun and took it over.\n\nIn 1761, Montgomerie was replaced by British army officer James Grant. He led an army of 2,600 men (the largest force to enter the southern Appalachians to date) against the Cherokee. His army moved through the Lower Towns, defeated the Cherokee at Echoee Pass, and proceeded to raze about 15 Middle Towns while burning fields of crops along the way.\n\nIn November 1761, the Cherokee signed the Treaty of Long-Island-on-the-Holston with the Colony of Virginia. They made peace with South Carolina the following year in the Treaty of Charlestown. During the Timberlake Expedition, Lt. Henry Timberlake, Sgt. Thomas Sumter, John McCormack (who served as their interpreter), and an unknown servant traveled into the Overhill settlements area to deliver a copy of the treaty with Virginia to the Cherokee. Timberlake's diary and map of his journey (\"see above\"), were published in 1765. His diary contained what historians assessed was an accurate description of Cherokee culture.\n\nPro-French leader, Standing Turkey, was deposed and replaced as \"First Beloved Man\" with the pro-British Attakullakulla. John Stuart became British Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern District, based out of Charlestown, South Carolina, and was the main liaison between the Cherokee and the British government. His first deputy, Alexander Cameron, lived among the Cherokee, first at Keowee, then at Toqua on the Little Tennessee River, while his second deputy, John McDonald, resided a hundred miles to the southwest on the west side of Chickamauga Creek where it was crossed by the Great Indian Warpath.\n\nDuring the war, a number of Cherokee towns had been destroyed under General Grant and were never reoccupied. The most notable of these was Kituwa, the inhabitants of which migrated west, taking up residence at Great Island Town (on the Little Tennessee), living among the Overhill Cherokee. As a result of the war, Cherokee warrior strength estimated at 2,590 before the war in 1755 was now reduced by battle, smallpox and starvation to 2,300.\n\nIn the aftermath of the war, French Louisiana east of the Mississippi went to the British, along with Canada, while Louisiana west of the Mississippi went to Spain; in return, Spanish Florida went to Britain, which divided it into East Florida and West Florida.\n\nAfter the signing of the treaties and the conclusion of the Timberlake Expedition, Henry Timberlake visited London with three Cherokee leaders: Ostenaco, Standing Turkey, and Wood Pigeon (\"Ata-wayi\"). The Cherokee guests visited the Tower of London, met the playwright Oliver Goldsmith, drew massive crowds, and had an audience with King George III. On the voyage to England, their interpreter, William Shorey, died. This made communication nearly impossible.\n\nHearing of the Cherokees' warm welcome in London, South Carolinians viewed their reception as a sign of imperial favoritism at the colonists' expense, especially in view of the Royal Proclamation of 1763 (which prohibited settlement west of the Appalachian Mountains), and was a foundation of one of the major irritants for the colonials leading up to the American Revolution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818869", "title": "Bukit Ho Swee Fire", "text": "Bukit Ho Swee Fire\n\nThe Bukit Ho Swee Fire (; Malay: \"Kebakaran Bukit Ho Swee\") was a conflagration that broke out in the squatter settlement of Bukit Ho Swee, Singapore on 25 May 1961. This fire killed 4 people and injured another 54. It also destroyed more than 2,800 houses around Bukit Ho Swee area, leaving around 16,000 people homeless. The cause of this conflagration was never established. The Bukit Ho Swee fire was the biggest outbreak of fire in Singapore's history.\n\nThe scale of the destruction of property sparked an emergency project to construct and resettle the people affected by this disaster. This first public housing project, led by the newly formed Housing and Development Board, is considered a pivotal point in the development of public housing of Singapore.\n\nAfter World War 2, many low-income Chinese families were forced to move out of Singapore's city centre. Coupled with the rise in the number of Chinese immigrants escaping from strife such as the Malayan Emergency, this created a huge demand for wooden housing built illegally on the fringes of the city-centre by contractors who sought to profit from the situation. As such, during the 1950s, urban kampongs became commonplace on the Singaporean landscape. One such kampong is located in Bukit Ho Swee. This kampong, seen by the People's Action Party as \"an insanitary, congested and dangerous squatter area\", saw its population increase drastically from 2,772 people in 1948 to 19,017 people in 1957.\n\nMeanwhile, the British colonial government in Singapore, through the Singapore Improvement Trust, embarked on the biggest public housing development project in the British empire to support Singapore's industrialization process. However, urban kampongs had to be cleared to free up land for the construction of public housing units. Yet, the high rents, small size and acute shortage of Singapore Improvement Trust flats meant that they were not popular with residents of urban kampongs. Many residents chose to remain in urban kampongs, which made kampong relocations politically difficult. Relocations often had to be done under police escort; the city ultimately had to retract its demolition policy in 1955 and designated some kampongs as \"attap\" areas. However, relocations still took place outside of these designated areas. This public housing development project was later adopted by the Housing Development Board when the People's Action Party took over the city government from the British.\n\nThere were many fire hazards lurking within kampongs. These included improperly disposed rubbish, burning of joss sticks and paper in religious rituals and the use of firewood for cooking. As such, major fires often broke out in kampongs. Prior to the Bukit Ho Swee fire, fires had already broken out in Kampong Bugis, Geylang and in nearby Kampong Tiong Bahru. Kampong Bukit Ho Swee itself had experienced a massive fire on 8 August 1934 when fires destroyed 500 houses in the area.\n\nDespite the ever-present threat of fire, the firefighting team in Singapore was ill-prepared to deal with the threat. The firefighting force only had 25 officers, 37 subordinate officers and 370 firefighters to fight fires in the whole of Singapore. They were equipped to deal with fires in permanent structures rather than the temporary shelters that characterize urban kampongs. Traffic congestion in the city also delayed the brigade's response to any fire. Residents distrusted the fire service, which was notorious for pilfering from fire sites. They also associated the fire service negatively with re-development. Thus, people began sabotaging the fire brigade's job and belatedly inform them about fires, which diminished their effectiveness in putting out kampong fires.\n\nHowever, the fire brigade was not totally inept. It had purchased water tenders which could draw water from sources such as wells and ponds and could safely navigate through narrow kampong roads. Volunteer firefighting squads, consisting of kampong residents and aided by the fire brigade and political parties governing the area, were formed. These squads were credited with helping to put out 15 fires in 1961 alone.\n\nSuch incidents of kampong fires provided opportunities for the government to rehouse kampong residents and redevelop the land. In the aftermath of these fires, the Singapore Improvement Trust often rehoused some victims in its flats as a form of emergency housing. However, these attempts at redevelopment were half-hearted in nature, and the challenges of obtaining the necessary land for redevelopment eventually stalled these programmes. In addition, the general kampong population did not buy into such resettlement plans as they did not consider such emergency housing to be any different from the wooden housing that they are accustomed to.\n\nAt 3:30 pm on 25 May 1961, a fire started in the neighbouring Kampong Tiong Bahru. Favourable wind conditions, the presence of flammable construction materials used by kampong residents to construct their attap houses and the presence of oil and petrol in homes caused the fire to spread quickly. The inferno soon engulfed the kampongs situated along Beo Lane, including Bukit Ho Swee, up until Havelock Road. This area, the most densely populated and developed area of the whole kampong, was where the fire inflicted the most significant damage. It subsequently spread to the Delta Circus area, where Ganges Avenue was sufficiently wide enough to act as a firebreak that prevented the fire from engulfing the government-built housing flats at Delta Estate.\n\nAs the fire occurred on the Hari Raya Haji public holiday, many members of the firefighting and police force had to be recalled to their duties through radio broadcasts from 5 pm onwards. The problem was made worse by the fact that many of the firefighters were Malay-Muslims who had taken leave to celebrate the festival. An hour later, the fledgling local military forces and British Army personnel were also called in to assist the police with maintaining order. In total, around 180 firemen, 20 officers and 22 fire engines were deployed to fight the fire, while nearly 1,000 army personnel were deployed to aid in crowd-control.\n\nFirefighters faced many challenges in their attempts to contain the inferno. Initially, the water pressure from the fire hydrants was too low. The congested layout of the housing settlements around the area and the presence of curious on-lookers hampered the movements of the firefighters and slowed down the process of evacuation and cordoning of the affected area. Further complicating the firefighters' mission was the fact that processing plants and mills in Bukit Ho Swee had also caught on fire and exploded, causing toxic chemicals such as sulphuric acid to be released into the air.\n\nThe Bukit Ho Swee fire peaked around 8 pm; by then, 22 fire engines had been deployed. The fire was eventually extinguished around Delta Circle at around 10pm. Even after the flames were extinguished, the debris continued smouldering for much of the night.\n\nDespite the scale of the fire, only four people were killed. However, the scale of destruction was massive as the fire guttered an area of approximately 100 acres. This included a school, a coffee mill, two oil mills, two junk shops, two tyre shops, three timber yards and three workshops. In addition, 2,800 homes were destroyed, leaving 15,694 people homeless overnight. Given that the homeless people managed to escape with very few of their belongings, and their livestock such as chickens and pigs were destroyed in the fire, the fire also significantly damaged the local economy. The overall material damage caused by the fire is estimated at SGD$2 million. The scale of the disaster made this conflagration the worst in Singapore's history.\n\nThe blaze also had a significant social impact. Of the victims of the fire, over half were aged below 15 years old. The \"Nanyang Siang Pau\" even commented that \"The word 'homeless' is inadequate to describe the seriousness of this fire disaster\".\n\nA national state of emergency was declared by the government shortly after the disaster. The schools in the area became temporary relief centres for approximately 8000 victims of the fire. Due to widespread looting in the aftermath of the fire, the army, police and the Gurkha Contingent blocked off access to the disaster site and imposed a partial curfew in the area. Access to the temporary shelters were also restricted.\n\nA massive charity effort, led by the Social Welfare Department, began after the inferno. Organisations ranging from the British Army to volunteer organisations such as the Singapore Red Cross and Saint John's Ambulance Brigade came forward to assist the victims in the relief centres. The General Hospital set up a clinic in one of the relief centres in the area. Inmates of Changi, Pulau Senang and Outram prisons also helped to raise funds and prepared meals for the victims of the Bukit Ho Swee fire. This relief effort was later described by the Social Welfare Department as \"the greatest challenge ever to be met in its fifteen-year-old span of existence\".\n\nTwo days after the fire, the Bukit Ho Swee Fire National Relief Fund Committee was established by the government to collect the donations on behalf of the victims of the fire. The committee, headed by Minister for Labour and Law Kenneth Michael Byrne, collected donations from both the government sources and the general public. The government itself contributed $250,000 to this fund, while the Federation of Malaya donated $20,000. Rubber magnate Lee Kong Chian contributed $25,000 to this fund. Members of the general population such as taxi drivers, barbers and trishaw riders also made their donations. In total, the fund collected $1,586,422.16, of which $1.4 million had been passed on to the victims by 1961.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Bukit Ho Swee fire, the government gave priority to plans to relocate victims to permanent flats, as it deemed conditions at relief centres unsanitary. It announced a resettlement plan the day after the fire, and it promised to rehouse all the victims of the fire within a year. During a special sitting of the Legislative Assembly, the government passed a motion to acquire the entire Bukit Ho Swee area to construct low-cost housing for the victims. In the meantime, a portion of the victims were resettled in recently completed flats in Queenstown, St. Michael and Tiong Bahru. Approximately 6,000 victims were eventually relocated in this first phase of resettlement, dubbed \"Operation Shift\". On 4 June 1961, ten days after the disaster, the victims of the fire began relocating from the temporary relief shelters to their new one- or two-room flats. By 10 June, all victims had moved out of temporary shelters.\n\nThe government then built the first five blocks of 768 flats in just 9 months. During the next four years, over 8,000 flats were built and those who lost their homes were able to return.\n\nHowever, not all of the victims were willing or able to move into government-built flats, and instead chose to move into undamaged houses in the original kampong. A squatter settlement, a bit smaller than the original kampong, thus remained in the locality. In 1968, the new settlement caught fire again, rendering 3,000 people homeless. Most of the fire's victims were rehoused within a day.\n\nEven before the fire was extinguished, rumours of arson were already spreading rapidly. Some eyewitnesses reportedly saw \"young Chinese men\" throwing flaming torches onto the roof of an attap house. On 28 May, Nanyang Siang Pau reported that the Criminal Investigation Department had questioned 2 residents living near the epicenter of the fire. By early June, the Department had questioned over 10 eyewitnesses regarding the fire. On 9 June, the police had arrested a suspect, but he was subsequently released due to the lack of concrete evidence supporting the eyewitness testimonies. After this report, there was no further coverage of the investigation into the cause of the fire. In addition to arson, other speculated causes of the Bukit Ho Swee fire include a gangster fight gone wrong and fire from a cooking stove. The cause of the fire has remained a mystery to the present day.\n\nThe lack of a clear conclusion has led to speculation by some that the fire was started by the newly minted People's Action Party-led local government. It was suggested that because the government faced difficulties in persuading residents to move out from their kampongs, it deliberately started this fire to forcibly move residents out. Purported evidence cited in support of this theory included the fact that even though the fire took place on a public holiday when many residents were home, the death toll remained relatively low. Others have dismissed this theory as \"wild talk\". These people argued that because the fire would have created a huge burden on the government to deal with the social fallout resulting from this event, it would not have made sense for the government to start this fire.\n\nOfficial sources largely do not refer to the unresolved cause of the fire and archival materials regarding the Bukit Ho Swee fire in government archives are difficult for researchers to access. Interviewees regarding the fire were wary about speculating on the reason of the fire, and distanced themselves from directly alleging arson, preferring to accept \"due process of the law over the words between neighbours\". Rumours about the causes of the Bukit Ho Swee fire remain a sensitive topic for decades. However, the death of Lim Kim San in 2006 brought the debate over the cause of the Bukit Ho Swee fire to the public sphere, as independent websites began questioning the role of the People's Action Party in kampong fires such as the Bukit Ho Swee fire.\n\nThe Bukit Ho Swee fire was a major political victory for the People's Action Party. The sheer speed of construction at Bukit Ho Swee, with 3.5 housing units completed per day, demonstrated to the population that the party was able to deliver. The political capital it gained as a result enabled the party-led government to rebuild other \"black areas\", kampongs which are similar to the one in Bukit Ho Swee. By 1965, the Housing Development Board successfully accommodated 23% of the population in its housing estates.\n\nThe People's Action Party leveraged on the Bukit Ho Swee fire and the subsequent emergency construction of public housing for its political purposes. It used photographs of the newly completed public housing flats to showcase the progress of Singapore, demonstrating to both locals and the international community how Singapore had transformed a place filled with dangerous settlements into a modern development.\n\nDespite the significance of the Bukit Ho Swee fire in Singapore's history, an Institute of Policy Studies study in 2015 found that only 70.7% of more than 1,500 people surveyed know of this event. In contrast, 98.9% of the respondents recalled the opening of Singapore's two integrated resorts in 2010. The findings of this study raised concerns that Singaporeans are forgetting their own history.\n\nChannel News Asia aired a documentary about the Bukit Ho Swee fire as part of its \"Days of Disaster\" documentary series on pivotal disasters in Singapore history. The hour-long episode, which first aired on 8 February 2015, used techniques such as computer-generated imagery and interviews with individuals to document this event.\n\nThe Bukit Ho Swee fire became the subject of works by several Singaporean artists such as Koeh Sia Yong in the 1960s. Channel 8, a Singaporean free-to-air Mandarin broadcaster, used the Bukit Ho Swee fire as a backdrop to its 2002 television series \"Bukit Ho Swee\". The 29-episode drama revolved around the themes of neighbourliness and social danger, depicting a love story juxtaposed against a society where gangsters harass the socially-marginalised residents of the village.\n\nIt has also appeared in the drama .\n\n"}
{"id": "1818874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818874", "title": "Tom Kane", "text": "Tom Kane\n\nThomas Kane Roberts (born April 15, 1962 in Overland Park, Kansas) is an American actor and voice actor known for his work in film, animation and video games.\n\nKane is known for his animation work. Notable roles include Jedi Master Yoda and Admiral Yularen in \"Star Wars: The Clone Wars\" and , The Chancellor in \"9\", Magneto in \"Wolverine and the X-Men\" and \"\", Ultron in \"\" and \"\", Mr. Herriman in \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\", Lord Monkey Fist on \"Kim Possible\", Professor Utonium and HIM in \"The Powerpuff Girls\". He has voiced Oxnard Montalvo in \"The Angry Beavers\" and the chimpanzee sidekick Darwin in \"The Wild Thornberrys\".\n\nKane is also a prominent video game voice actor, appearing in numerous titles - from bit parts, to major roles such as Gandalf, Professor X and lead characters in many \"Star Wars\" games like \"\" as Imperial Captain Ozzik Sturn, Lobot and Kento Marek (the father of Sam Witwer's Galen Marek) thanks to ILM's motion capture technology. In \"\", \"\", \"\", \"\" and \"\", he provides the voice of Takeo Masaki, a Japanese WWII soldier and WWI warrior in the Zombies game mode.\n\nIn the arena of non-animation voiceover work, Kane records commercials, film trailers and television promos. In addition, he has been the announcer for the AFI Life Achievement Award show twice, as well as the 78th, 80th, 83rd, and 84th Academy Awards. He also played Odin (the father of Thor and Loki) in the as well as the Disneyland attraction: \"Thor: Treasures of Asgard\", taking over the role from Anthony Hopkins from the film.\n\nOn April 13, 2012, Kane took over for Joe Hursh as the voice of the Walt Disney World Monorail System. In 2013, he took over as the announcer of \"The Eric Andre Show\", replacing Gary Anthony Williams.\n\nKane made his debut in the \"Star Wars\" film saga as the voice of Admiral Ackbar in 2017's \"\", taking over the role from the late Erik Bauersfeld. He had experience in voicing the character on several occasions for video games in the franchise prior to the film's release.\n\nKane has also voiced Plague Champion in \"Warhammer 40,000: Dawn of War II - Chaos Rising and Retribution\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1818878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818878", "title": "Vestavia Hills High School", "text": "Vestavia Hills High School\n\nVestavia Hills High School (VHHS), founded in 1970, is a public high school in Vestavia Hills, Alabama, a suburb of Birmingham, Alabama, USA. It is part of the Vestavia Hills City Schools.\n\nThe land was acquired by Louis Pizitz, a Polish immigrant who settled in Birmingham in 1889. Pizitz lived here with his wife, Minnie and their son, Hortense. After their death, their son Hortense sold the land to the City of Vestavia Hills in the 1960s. \n\nThe school was built in the 1970s, in the context of the establishment of segregation academies in the 1970s, which enabled white American children to segregate themselves from black children, who remained in public schools. Until 2016 the school mascot, known as Rebel Man, was a plantation owner. The school \"picked a Confederate Flag-waving Civil War Rebel because it saw itself as rebellious.\"\n\nIn the wake of the Charleston church shooting in June 2015, \"The Birmingham News\" highlighted this history and called for a removal of the mascot. Meanwhile, the school superintendent called it 'a \"point of contention for some members\" of the community'. By early July 2015, some Vestavia Hills residents wrote an op ed in \"The Birmingham News\" calling on the school board to change its name. By the middle of July 2015, comedian John Oliver made fun of the claim that it was \"heritage, not hate\" on national television. He argued, \"Your logo is a plantation owner. [...] And saying that the image of a plantation owner is not used in a racist way is a bit like arguing the Hitachi magic wand is only used as a back massager.\"\n\nThe Vestavia Hills City Schools System decided to keep the \"Rebels\" name but initiate a \"rebranding\" process. The new branding was approved by the school board on May 18, 2016. The new branding replaced the objectionable mascot and instituted the new slogan \"You play one Rebel you play us all.\"\n\nVestavia has 150 courses available on yearly basis. Vestavia offers a number of AP courses (World History, U.S. History, European History, Human Geography, English Language & Lit., Calculus AB, Calculus BC, Computer Science Principles, Psychology, Physics 1, Statistics, Biology, Chemistry, French, Latin, Spanish, German, Government, Economics, Studio Art, Environmental Science, and Comparative Government). Vestavia also offers Honors courses for all core subjects to all grades. Dual Enrollment classes are available for both English and Math.\n\nThe school has a music department. It publishes a newspaper, \"The Vedette\", and a literary and visual arts magazine, \"The Muse\".\n\nThe school was recognized with the national Blue Ribbon School of Excellence by the United States Department of Education in both 1991 and 2009. \n\nThe debate team has won seven national championships, with the added distinction of being the first team in history to win both Lincoln-Douglas Debate and Policy Debate in the National Speech and Debate Association's National Speech and Debate Tournament. In addition, only one other school has won two national championships in Lincoln-Douglas debate at the Tournament of Champions national high school debate tournament.\n\nThe math team amassed 15 first place finishes at the Mu Alpha Theta national championships from 1987 to 2006. Over the same period, the team dominated most regional events throughout the Southeast, including four victories at the Furman University Wylie Mathematics Tournament from 1999 to 2004.\n\nIn 2008, the school won the \"Adam Smith Division\" in the Council for Economic Education's National Economics Challenge, and its students finished runner up in the national finals of the 22nd annual competition in 2009.\n\nVestavia Hills High School fields varsity teams in football, cheerleading, basketball, baseball, soccer, wrestling, golf, tennis, softball, swimming, volleyball, cross country, and indoor and outdoor track and field.\n\nVHHS has won AHSAA state championships in the following sports:\n\nBuddy Anderson Field (at Thompson Reynolds Stadium) is home of the Vestavia Hills Rebels football team. The field is named after current head coach Buddy Anderson. Anderson has been coaching at Vestavia since 1972, and has remained the head coach since 1978.\n\nVHHS has a competitive show choir, \"Singers\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818908", "title": "Emile de Antonio", "text": "Emile de Antonio\n\nEmile Francisco de Antonio (May 14, 1919 – December 15, 1989) was an American director and producer of documentary films, usually detailing political, social, and counterculture events circa 1960s–1980s. He has been referred to by Randolph Lewis as, \"…the most important political filmmaker in the United States during the Cold War.\"\n\nDe Antonio was born in 1919 in the coal-mining town of Scranton, Pennsylvania. His father, Emilio de Antonio, an Italian immigrant, fostered the lifelong interests of Antonio by passing on his own love for philosophy, classical literature, history and the arts. He attended Harvard University alongside future president John F. Kennedy. Despite this, De Antonio was familiar with the working class experience, making his living at various points in his life as a peddler, a book editor, and the captain of a river barge (among other duties). He would later go on to make a film about Kennedy's assassination called \"Rush to Judgment\" (1966), an early rebuttal of the Warren Report.\n\nAfter serving in the military during World War II as a bomber pilot, de Antonio returned to the United States where he frequented the art crowd, often associating with such Pop artists as Jasper Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, and Andy Warhol, in whose film \"Drink\" de Antonio appears. Warhol was famously quoted praising de Antonio with the words, \"Everything I learned about painting, I learned from De.\"\n\nIn 1959, de Antonio developed G-String Productions in order to distribute the Beat Generation film \"Pull My Daisy\", and it was at this time that de Antonio discovered filmmaking. His first film, \"Point of Order!\" (1964), was a compilation film covering Joseph McCarthy and the Army-McCarthy hearings. In 1968, de Antonio signed the \"Writers and Editors War Tax Protest\" pledge, vowing to refuse tax payments in protest against the Vietnam War.\n\nDe Antonio chronicled this art scene in his documentary \"Painters Painting\" (1972). He did not actually begin creating films until the age of 43, after making significant contributions to the modern art world through his uncensored promotion of the work of his contemporaries. In 1969, the Metropolitan Museum of Art held a water-stone exhibition titled New York Painting and Sculpture: 1940–1970, that included 408 works by 43 artists. Curator Henry Geldzahler granted de Antonio the unique opportunity of exclusive access to the works included in the show, and exclusive rights to filming it. Until this point, de Antonio noted, \"I disliked films on painting that I knew. They were either arty, narrated in a gush of reverence, as if painting were among angelic orders, or filmed with violent, brainless zooms on Apollo's navel, a celebration of the camera over the god. They revealed nothing at all about how or why a painting was made.\"\n\nThe intimate opportunity of access to the show, and the similarly intimate relationships with many of the artists, led de Antonio to select thirteen painters to profile in his film, in addition to critics, curators, dealers, collectors, and other influential figures in the contemporary art world. Combining interviews with live footage of the artists at work in their studio, de Antonio and cinematographer Ed Emshwiller created a groundbreaking work that captured Abstract Expressionism and other major contemporary art movements in a way no film maker had ever before.\n\nIn an interview regarding his filmography, de Antonio spoke towards his relationship with the painters and his role in the creation of the film: \"I was probably the only filmmaker in the world who could [have made \"Painters Painting\"] because I knew all those people, from the time that they were poor, and unsuccessful and had no money. I knew Warhol and Rauschenberg and Jasper Johns and Stella before they ever sold a painting, and so it was interesting to [do the film about them].\"\n\nDe Antonio was the creator of many politically motivated films (including the 1969 Oscar-nominated \"In the Year of the Pig\") that attracted a substantial amount of controversy, and was also known for aligning himself with Marxist thought. His films are critiques of various aspects of American culture or politics, on the whole reflecting a certain degree of political dissension. Over the course of his professional life, de Antonio was under surveillance by J. Edgar Hoover and the FBI. This surveillance resulted in a 10,000-page dossier on de Antonio, and is the subject of his \"autobiographical swansong,\" \"Mr. Hoover and I\".\n\nOn December 15, 1989, de Antonio died of a heart attack in front of his Lower East Side home.\n\nA still photograph used in the film that displayed Marine Corporal Michael Wynn later was incorporated into the album cover for The Smiths' second album \"Meat Is Murder\" (1985). The insignia on Wynn's helmet was changed to \"meat is murder\". \n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818912", "title": "Changzhou", "text": "Changzhou\n\nChangzhou (: \"Zaon Tsei\", ) is a prefecture-level city in southern Jiangsu province, China. It was previously known as Yanling, Lanling and Jinling. Located on the southern bank of the Yangtze River, Changzhou borders the provincial capital of Nanjing to the west, Zhenjiang to the northwest, Wuxi to the east, and the province of Zhejiang to the south. Changzhou is located in the highly developed Yangtze Delta region of China extending from Shanghai going northwest. The population of Changzhou city was 4,592,431 at the 2010 census.\n\n\"The Ruins of Yancheng\" (), comprise the remains of a walled city located in the Wujin district of Changzhou that was founded over 3000 years ago at the beginning of the Western Zhou dynasty. The earliest record of a settlement on the site of modern Changzhou is as a commandery founded in 221  at the beginning of the Qin Dynasty. During the interregnum between the Sui and Tang, the city of Piling () was the capital of Shen Faxing's short-lived Kingdom of Liang ( 619 to 620). Changzhou got its present name meaning \"ordinary prefecture\" in 589. Following construction of the Grand Canal in 609, Changzhou became a canal port and transshipment point for locally-grown grain, and has maintained these roles ever since. The rural counties surrounding Changzhou are noted for the production of rice, fish, tea, silk, bamboo and fruit.\nDuring the Taiping Rebellion of the 1850s, one of five palaces housing the leaders of the so-called \"Kingdom of Celestial Peace\" was constructed in Changzhou. Today the ruins of the \"King's Palace\" can be found near the People's No.1 Hospital.\n\nIn the 1920s, Changzhou started to attract cotton mills. The cotton industry got a boost in the late 1930s when businesses began relocating outside of Shanghai due to the Japanese occupation. Unlike many Chinese cities, Changzhou continued to prosper even during the upheavals of the Cultural Revolution of 1966–76. Today it is an important industrial center for textiles, food processing, engineering (diesel engines, generators, transformers and other machinery), and high technology.\n\nOn January 1, 1953, Changzhou was set as provincially administrated municipality.\n\nIn 1958, Zhenjiang Prefecture was renamed as Changzhou Prefecture, and the administration office was moved from Zhenjiang to Changzhou. Changzhou was incorporated by Changzhou Prefecture.\n\nIn 1959, Changzhou Prefecture was changed into Zhenjiang Prefecture, and the administration office was moved from Changzhou to Zhenjiang. Changzhou was incorporated by Zhenjiang Prefecture.\n\nIn 1960, Wujin County of Zhenjiang Prefecture was incorporated into Changzhou.\n\nIn 1962, Changzhou was changed into provincially administrated municipality and Wujin County was incorporated into Zhenjiang Prefecture.\n\nIn 1983, when the municipally affiliated county system was carried out, Wujin County, Jintan County and Liyang County of Zhenjiang were incorporated into Changzhou. The urban area was divided into five municipally administrated districts, Guanghua, Tianning, Zhonglou, Qishuyan and Jiaoqu. At that time, Changzhou administrated three counties and five districts.\n\nFrom September 1986, as approved by State Council, Guanghua District was revoked and the previous administrative area was incorporated into Zhonglou District and Tianning Districrt. Liyang County was changed into Liyang City (county level). At that time, Changzhou administrated one city, two counties and four districts.\n\nIn 1993, Jintan County was changed into Jintan City.\n\nIn 1995, Longhutang Town, Xinqiao Town, Baizhang Town and Weitang Town of Wujin County were incorporated into Jiaoqu District. As approved by State Council on June 8 of 1995, Wujin County was promoted to Wujin City, with the government set in Hutang Town.\n\nIn 1999, as approved by the provincial government, Taixiang Town of Jiaoqu District was revoked and incorporated into Xueyan Town of Wujin City. \n\nThe prefecture-level city of Changzhou administers seven county-level divisions, including five districts and one county-level city.\n\nIts total population was 4,592,431 inhabitants at the 2010 census, an average 2% per year increase since the previous census, and 3,290,918 lived in the built-up area made up of 5 urban districts.\n\nChangzhou is an educational hub and is home to several universities, including Changzhou University, Hohai University (Changzhou campus), Jiangsu Teachers' University of Science and Technology, Jiangsu Teachers' University of Technology, and Changzhou Institute of Technology. The city also has a number of prominent secondary schools, including the Changzhou Senior High School of Jiangsu Province.\n\nAs the first education park taking higher vocational education as its distinguishing feature in China, Changzhou Higher Vocational Education Base was called the “cradle of silver-collar workers”. Every year, it cultivated 20,000 technological talents to the Yangtze River Delta area. 100% of the graduates signed employment contracts and the one-off employment rate was higher than 98%. There are 5 higher vocational colleges and an undergraduate college in the park, which have realized the cross-school study, common credit and resource sharing. A large number of highly qualified vocational talents were cultivated here. Based on this, Changzhou Scientific Education Town was founded. It cooperates with foreign universities in America, Canada, Britain and Germany, etc., domestic universities like Nanjing University, scientific institutes and hi-tech enterprises in constructing nearly 100 laboratory, practice, training, and technological R&D centers. Presently, it is marching towards the national sample vocational education area, experimental area of production, teaching and research, and the cluster area of scientific innovation. Many central leaders such as Hu Jintao, Jia Qinglin and Luo Gan have paid inspection visits here and spoke highly of it.\n\nChangzhou's traditional role has been that of a commercial center and in particular a distribution center for agricultural produce, which was shipped by canal to the north and later, to Shanghai. The city began to develop a cotton textile industry in the 1920s, and cotton mills were established in the late 1930s, when Japanese attacks drove many Chinese businesses to invest outside Shanghai.\n\nThe city has remained a textile center and the most important location in Jiangsu Province for weaving. It also has large food-processing plants as well as flour-milling, rice-polishing, and oil-pressing industries. After 1949 it also developed as a centre of the engineering industry. Qishuyan, some southeast of Changzhou, has one of the largest locomotive and rolling stock plants in China. Other engineering works in Changzhou produce diesel engines, generators, transformers along with agricultural and textile machinery. At the time of the Great Leap Forward in 1958 a steel plant was also built to provide raw material for heavy industry.\n\nSince 1908, Changzhou has been linked by rail with Shanghai and Nanjing (see below for transportation).\n\nUp until now, Changzhou has remained one of the most developed cities in Jiangsu, ranked third after Suzhou and Wuxi. The city's 2009 GDP per capita of ¥70,103 in 2009, less than that of Suzhou and Wuxi but more than the capital city Nanjing, ranked the city third in Jiangsu.\n\nChangzhou is also one of the top business cities in China. According to Forbes ranking, Changzhou was the 9th best business city in mainland China in 2008. Changzhou data was reported at 662.228 RMB bn in Dec 2017. This records an increase from the previous number of 577.386 RMB bn for Dec 2016. China's CN: GDP: Jiangsu: Changzhou data is updated yearly, averaging 130.818 RMB bn from Dec 1991 to 2017, with 25 observations. The data reached an all-time high of 662.228 RMB bn in 2017 and a record low of 10.545 RMB bn in 1991. China's CN: GDP: Jiangsu: Changzhou data remains active status in CEIC and is reported by National Bureau of Statistics. The data is categorized under China Premium Database's National Accounts – Table CN.AE: Gross Domestic Product: Prefecture Level City.\n\nApproval for the establishment of Changzhou Export Processing Zone was given in June 2005 with a planned area of . Near to Shanghai and Nanjing via convenient transportation links, the zone began operation in October 2006. Investors enjoy a series of preferential policies whilst all handle export procedures are handled inside the export processing zone. The zone focuses on electronic information, electromechanical integration and new materials.\n\nChangzhou National Hi-Tech District (CND) is a state-level high-tech industrial development zone. It is located in the northern part of Changzhou city. With a population of 500,000 and an area of 439 square km, the district is from Shanghai to the east and from Nanjing to the west. The district represents the highest-level and most sophisticated industrial park in Changzhou. More than 1,300 foreign companies and over 5,000 local industrial enterprises have been registered within the district of which around 40% are from European and American countries. Industries encouraged include engineering machinery, transformer & transmission equipment, automotive, locomotive & locomotive components, parts, precision machinery, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals, photo-voltaic (PV) and new materials, chemicals, garment and textiles production, computer software and research & development. Some major investors include Terex, Komatsu, Ashland Chemical, Johnson, Caltex Oil Corp., Disa, +GF+, Rieter and General Electronics.\n\n　Changzhou used to be one of the birthplaces of the national modern industry in China. Sheng Xuanhuai, who was honored as the “Father of China’s Industry”, bent all his efforts in the modern factory and mine communications. He created 11 “No.1” in China, including the first telecommunication enterprise. In the end of Qing Dynasty and the early days of the Republic of China, the textile, mechanical and food industries of Changzhou were rapidly developing. In 1906, the first capitalist manufacturing factory, Jinyu Textile Factory appeared. In 1932, the famous industrialist, Liu Guojun, founded the integration mode of spinning, weaving and dyeing. It had a pioneer meaning in the 1930s. During the 1980s, Changzhou became the star industrial city that was famous all over China, and created the “South Jiangsu Mode” with the characteristics of the times, the developed town industry. As the traditional and advantageous industry of Changzhou, the equipment manufacturing industry has been developing in recent years. Changzhou has formed 6 great national characterized industrial bases, that is, agricultural implement and machinery manufacturing, power transmission and transforming manufacturing, automobile and accessories manufacturing, new textile, track traffic and new coating. Presently, the power transmission and transforming manufacturing industry is the first in China, and the track traffic vehicle and accessories manufacturing base is famous in East China and all over the country. The engineering machinery and vehicle industry has shown its strong growth momentum. By the end of 2010, Changzhou has had 26 national famous brands, 175 provincial famous brands and 327 municipal brands. The number of national famous brands is the third in Jiangsu. The good pattern of multi-level development and echelon improvement, which takes the national brand as the orienting role, the provincial brand as the body and the municipal brand as the reserve, has been initially formed. \n　　Changzhou is becoming a modern equipment manufacturing city with prominent domestic advantages and large potential.\n\nThe climate is Humid Subtropical \"Cfa\", with cool winters and hot and humid summers.\nChangzhou has a wide range of temperature differences throughout the year.\n\nThe first line of the Changzhou Metro opened on 21 September 2019.\n\nLocated just south of the Chang Jiang (Yangtze River), Changzhou station is situated on the original Beijing–Shanghai railway. Changzhou North station was completed in 2011 and is located in the north of Changzhou in the Xinbei district on the Beijing–Shanghai high-speed railway. Changzhou is also one of the main stops on the busy Shanghai–Nanjing intercity railway, with two stations located in Changzhou (Changzhou station and Qishuyan station).\n\nChangzhou Benniu Airport is approximately from the city center. There are domestic flights to Beijing, Guangzhou, Chengdu, Shenyang, Kunming, Harbin and Dalian, and international flights to Macau, Taiwan, South Korea, Thailand, Vietnam, Indonesia and Japan.\n\n\nUse of the Bus Rapid Transit System costs one yuan (or, if a Changzhou Bus Card is used, either three or six jiao depending on the type of card) and provides access throughout Changzhou. The BRT has the following specifications: separate bus lanes or bus-only roadways, a vast network of routes and corridors, high capacity buses operating both outside and inside these corridors, greater passenger volume as compared to that in mixed traffic lanes (-3000 pphpd), enhanced station environments (not just simple bus shelters), automated pre-boarding fare collection and fare verification, street level boarding and alighting, low emission vehicle technology (Euro III or higher), weather protection on station platforms, centralized system controls, real-time next bus information display, a distinctive marketing identity, high-quality passenger service at bus stations, segregated bike lanes along main corridor(s) as well as station access for disabled persons. The BRT is also located in the following cities: Beijing, Chongqing, Dalian, Guangzhou, Jinan, Hangzhou, Hefei, Kunming, Xiamen, Zhengzhou and Ürümqi.\n\nChangzhou built its first elevated road, the \"Outer Ring Elevated Road\", consisting of \"Longcheng Blvd. Elevated Road\" and \"Longjiang Rd. Elevated Road\", in 2007 and it came into use in 2008. Now the elevated road has formed a ring surrounding the urban area of Changzhou, linking main Highways.\n\nThe Changzhou dialect is a member of the Wu Chinese language family.\n\nOther famous handicrafts of Changzhou are silk embroidery in a \"crisscross\" style and carvings made from green bamboo.\n\nNoted snacks made in Changzhou include pickled radish, sesame candy, sweet glutinous rice flour dumpling with fermented glutinous rice, and silver thread noodles (also known as dragon's beard noodles).\n\nSince 2004, Changzhou has successfully hosted China (Changzhou) International Cartoon and Digital Art Festival (CICDAF) for three times successively. With the 3-year efforts, CICDAF has basically reached the level of an international cartoon and movie festival, having vast and active influence on both the foreign and domestic cartoon industry. It has become one of the most professional and authoritative international cartoon events at the highest level. It gives new connotation to the cultural development in Changzhou, and Changzhou has ranked as the only municipal city among the first 9 “national animation and cartoon industrial bases” in China. Up to now, there are 3 incubator parks in the base with nearly 60 enterprises registered and the registered capital of nearly RMB 3 million. This year, the number of cartoons produced in the base and set by the National Bureau of Broadcasting and Television has reached 70, that is, 4,500 volumes and 50,000 minutes. A group of distinguished works have been up and coming, including the Peach Blossom Fan, which has gained many rewards both oversea and domestically. On December 12, 2006, Changzhou National Cartoon Industrial Base was awarded as “Top Ten Innovative Base with the Largest Investment Value of 2006”.\n\nChangzhou is the home of the China Dinosaurs Park located in the Xinbei District of the city. The 5A rated Dinosaur Park has a collection of dinosaur bones and fossils from all over China. The park has 50 various fossils and more than 30 amusement programs including the Brontosaurus Roller Coaster and the Whirling Dinosaur Carriage. The fossils are located in a museum housed in a single building and the amusement rides are spread throughout the park which is categorized into six themed areas. Besides fossils and family oriented rides, Dinosaur Park is home to a giant panda and sea lions.\n\nIn 2011, a new amusement park called CC Joyland () opened in Taihuwan near Taihu lake in Wujin District in the south of Changzhou.\n\nThe city is also home to the Tianning Temple—one of the largest Zen Buddhist temple and monasteries in China. The city recently rebuilt the Tianning pagoda in the temple grounds, which is adjacent to Hongmei Park. The pagoda, called the \"Tianning Baota\", was first built during the Tang Dynasty (AD 618 - 907). Since that time it has been destroyed and rebuilt five times. The current reconstruction is built to the height specification of . This makes it the tallest pagoda in China and perhaps also the world. Both the Hongmei Park and Tianning Temple are located just to the east of the city centre.\n\nAs Changzhou is noted for its combs, the city has reconstructed its Fine Comb Lane area with contemporary architecture. Changzhou combs can be purchased in most places in the city.\n\nThere is the Hong Mei Park, which includes a small children's amusement park, a zoo, a rose garden and many scenic waterways. Of historical interest in the park is a historical pavilion with exhibits related to the Changzhou comb industry. In addition, there is another pavilion which displays locally produced root carvings. The park attracts large numbers of people during holidays and is often dotted with a variety of vendors.\n\nOther sites include Changzhou's sunken city and area of archaeological ruins from the Spring and Autumn period.\n\nDongpo Park is located in the east part of downtown of Changzhou city, and its original name is Dongjiao Park. It covers 2.667 hectares, and is a typical Jiangnan Garden composed of cultural sites and natural landscape. During the time of south Song dynasty, the civilians of Changzhou established Yizhou Pavilion to commemorate, Su Dongpo, who was the great literature master and used to come to Changzhou. During the time of Qing dynasty, Kangxi and Qianlong, two emperors southwardly visited, they ordered to build up the temporary palace here and reconstructed this pavilion.\n\nChangzhou also has attractive gardens such as the Wei Yuan.\n\nThe Old Museum of Wisteria is also located in the city.\nAs a National 4-A Tourist Resort of Changzhou, China Dinosaur Park is the sample base of the national science popularization education and the Chinese cultural industry. It is also a National 4-A Class Amusement Park that perfectly combines museum, hi-tech acoustic, optic and electric technology, special video effects and multimedia network and that integrates exhibition, science popularization, entertainment, leisure and participatory performances. Its central building and the core of the park is China Dinosaur Museum, which was the cooperative project of Changzhou Municipal government and the Ministry of Land and Resources (the former Ministry of Geology and Mineral Resources). It presents to the society with the most precious geological minerals through the advanced supporting facilities. The park is Pided into several parts, including China Dinosaur Museum, On-lake lawn, biological performance of the dinosaur mountain, leisure area for foreign investors and aggressive project area, etc. These parts let people feel the mysterious atmosphere of the ancient years, to see the appearance of dinosaurs, and to enjoy the modern travel atmosphere full of surprise and risks. As one of the cards of Changzhou, China Dinosaur Park, together with other scenic spots, is featuring Changzhou into a new tourist landmark in east China.\n\n\n\nQu Qiubai, Zhang Tailei and Yun Daiying, who are called “three heroes of Changzhou”, were earlier Party leaders. They fought for the reform of China and sacrificed themselves. As one of the earlier leaders of the Party, Qu Qiubai was a Marxist, an excellent proletarian revolutionist, theorist and publicist as well as one of the founders of the revolutionary literature in China. Zhang Tailei is a name closely related to foundation of Socialist Youth League and Guangzhou Uprising. He was one of the earliest international activists in the Party as well as the link between the Party and Communist International, Youth League and Youth Communist International. He was called the “real internationalist”. Yun Daiying was one of the early Party leaders. He was also a political scientist, theorist, and leader of youth movements. He participated into and led the May Fourth Movement, the May 30th Movement, Nanchang Uprising, and Guangzhou Uprising, etc. Having been influenced by him, numerous young people stepped onto the road of reform. “Three heroes of Changzhou” are the representatives of the celebrities of Changzhou, and they will be the pride of Changzhou people.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818915", "title": "Z-Trip", "text": "Z-Trip\n\nZach Sciacca, better known as DJ Z-Trip, is an American DJ and producer. He is a pioneer of the mashup movement.\n\nHe was the 2009 recipient of the \"America's Best DJ Award\". As a producer he has worked with artists across different genres including LL Cool J, Public Enemy, Kasabian and Dan the Automator. As of 2012, he has also been featured as LL Cool J's touring DJ. He collaborated with Talib Kweli on the mixtape \"Attack the Block\". In 2012, Z-Trip launched a new mixer with Rane and Serato called the 62-Z.\n\nZ-Trip was born in Queens, New York, then moved to Phoenix, Arizona, as a teen. He was known early in his career for performing with the Bombshelter DJs (along with Bombshelter's founder Emile Ananian and DJ Radar). He became widely known when his collaboration with DJ P, \"Uneasy Listening, Vol. 1\", was released in 2001. Only 1000 copies were made, but the album was soon distributed over the Internet in MP3 format. Uneasy Listening topped many critics' best album of year lists, including Rolling Stone, Spin, Entertainment Weekly, URB, the \"Los Angeles Times\" and \"New York Times\". Since then, he has become well known worldwide for his sold-out shows and eclectic style, including headlining slots at the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival and an opening slot for the Rolling Stones, where he performed in front of a 450,000-person audience. He was also a part of Operation MySpace, a concert scheduled for American troops stationed in Kuwait; this show was simulcast on MySpace and the FX cable channel.\n\nHis album \"Shifting Gears\" marked his major-label debut. Released on Hollywood Records in 2005, the album features guest artists Supernatural, Murs, Lyrics Born, Luke Sick, Aceyalone, Mystic, Prince Whipper Whip, Busdriver, Chester Bennington (from Linkin Park), Chuck D (from Public Enemy) and Soup and Chali 2na (from Jurassic 5). \"Shifting Gears\" received both critical and commercial acclaim. \"Rolling Stone\" gave the album four stars. It also charted 3 Top Ten Singles, in the U.S. As of August 2006, Z-Trip has left Hollywood Records.\n\nZ-Trip also composed an original score for EA Games' release \"Skate\". With his remix of \"Lounge Act\", he became the first and (as of July 2010) the only DJ to have a remix approved by Nirvana and Kurt Cobain's estate.\n\nZ-Trip is featured in the 2001 documentary \"Scratch\". His educational segment \"How To Rock A Party\" was placed in prominent rotation on MTV and placed as an extra on the \"Scratch\" DVD. He is also featured in 2005's \"Scratch, All The Way Live\" concert film alongside Mix Master Mike of the Beastie Boys.\n\nIn 2007, Z-Trip released an EP with MSTRKRFT entitled \"Soundclash of the Titans\", which featured artwork by longtime Z-Trip friend and collaborator Shepard Fairey, of Obey Giant fame. In 2008, Z-Trip became politically motivated and did an album encouraging people to vote for Barack Obama entitled \"Party For Change\", which was hailed as \"great\". After Obama's win, he created an album entitled \"Victory Lap\" that served as the soundtrack for the inauguration night parties around the world. Both albums were licensed under Creative Commons, made available for free download on the artist's website with cover art created by Fairey.\n\nHe performs with Serato Live as well as traditional vinyl, preferring to edit with Pro Tools. In 2013, Z-Trip collaborated with reggae artist Lee \"Scratch\" Perry on a remix of the Bob Marley track \"Punky Reggae Party\", which was made into a limited-edition pressing by Serato.\n\nZ-Trip was voted as America's Best DJ in 2009 by \"DJ Times\" Magazine and has placed in the competition's Top 10 every year since. Shortly after, he was named the #1 DJ in Club District's yearly \"Top 10 DJ's in America\" poll. In October 2009, Z-Trip became the headlining resident DJ of Rain Nightclub on Friday nights, located at the Palms Casino Resort in Las Vegas. As a part of this ongoing residency, entitled \"Z-Trip's Revolution\", he had multiple guests perform alongside him, including Too Short, De La Soul, Three Six Mafia, and Xzibit. The night was put on hiatus in late 2010 as Z-Trip began to work on his follow-up to \"Shifting Gears\".\n\n2011 marked the beginning of Z-Trip's collaboration with hip-hop icon LL Cool J with performances at the South by Southwest Festival and a special guest appearance by the rapper during Z-Trip's headlining set at the Hollywood Palladium, among others. The duo then embarked upon a multiple date tour entitled \"Kings of the Mic,\" which saw them criss-cross the United States, joined by hip-hop artists including Public Enemy, Ice Cube and De La Soul, which was heralded as \"in-your-face and unfettered\".\n\nIn 2012, Z-Trip collaborated with dubstep artist Datsik to produce the track 'Double Trouble,' featured on Datsik's first studio album, Vitamin D.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818918", "title": "Canada women's national soccer team", "text": "Canada women's national soccer team\n\nThe Canada women's national soccer team () is overseen by the Canadian Soccer Association and competes in the Confederation of North, Central American and Caribbean Association Football (CONCACAF).\n\nThe team reached international prominence at the 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup, losing in the bronze medal match to the United States. Canada qualified for its first Olympic women's soccer tournament in 2008, making it to the quarterfinals. Canada are two-time CONCACAF Women's Gold Cup champions, and two-time Olympic bronze medalists from London 2012 where they defeated France 1–0 in Coventry and from Rio de Janeiro 2016, after defeating hosts Brazil 2–1 in São Paulo.\n\nA certain segment of the Canadian women's soccer fans are closely linked to the U-20 team (U-19 prior to 2006), partly due to Canada hosting the inaugural FIFA U-19 Women's World Championship in 2002, a tournament in which the team won silver in front of 47,784 fans at Commonwealth Stadium in Edmonton, Alberta. Canada also hosted the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup, where they were eliminated in the quarterfinals by England. Canada set the tournament and team record for attendance in the process, with 1,353,506 and 54,027 respectively.\n\nThe Canada women's team played its first international on July 7, 1986, a 2–0 away loss to the United States. The team's first major tournament was the 1995 FIFA Women's World Cup in Sweden, where the team achieved one draw and two losses in group play and failed to advance. Its first success in a major tournament was the 2003 FIFA Women's World Cup in the United States, where Canada finished in fourth place, their first time reaching the semifinals of a major global tournament. Canada's best finish in any major global tournament was its third-place finish at both the 2012 and 2016 Summer Olympics. Canada hosted the 2015 FIFA Women's World Cup for the first time, where they reached the quarterfinals.\n\nCaptain Christine Sinclair has been called the \"backbone\" of the Canadian national team, earning her 250th cap in 2016, while ranking first worldwide in international goals scored by any player, man or woman. She was named Canada Soccer's female player of the year every year from 2004 to 2014, and has been nominated for FIFA's Women's World Player of the Year. Despite speculation otherwise, she confirmed in 2016 that she plans to compete in the 2019 Women's World Cup and the 2020 Olympics. She also added prior to the 2016 Olympics that \"The young players coming into this Olympic squad have brought an energy and passion to our team and they have risen the bar.\"\n\nThe following 22 players were named to the roster for the 2020 Tournoi de France.\n\n\"Caps and goals are current as of March 11, 2020, after the match against .\"\n\nThe following players were named to a squad in the last twelve months.\n\nNotes:\n\nBold players are still active.\n\n\nThe following table shows Canada's all-time official international record per opponent:\n\nCyprus Cup\n\nAlgarve Cup\n\nFour Nations Tournament\n\nInternational Women's Football Tournament\n\nYongchuan International Tournament\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818923", "title": "Counter-to-counter package", "text": "Counter-to-counter package\n\nIn the airline and some other transportation industries, a counter-to-counter package is a quicker (and more expensive) alternative to standard freight for the shipment of small parcels and envelopes. These shipments have size, weight, and content restrictions, and usually may be dropped off and picked up at a ticket counter, luggage service or freight office.\n\nAdditional security regulations put into place after September 11, 2001 have eliminated anonymous counter-to-counter shipments. Entities wishing to ship must register to become a known shipper according to the specific directives of the Federal Aviation Administration and the Transportation Security Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818927", "title": "West Dorset (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "West Dorset (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWest Dorset is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2019 by Chris Loder, a Conservative.\n\nThe seat was created under the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885.\nWest Dorset has been served only by Conservative MPs. Historically there have mostly been large majorities; thus the seat can be considered a safe seat. The closest result in recent years was in 2001, when the then member, Oliver Letwin, only just held his seat, with a majority of 2.8% over the Liberal Democrat candidate, Simon Green. The Liberal Democrats have come second at every election since 1974. Labour's best results in the constituency were in 1945 and 1966.\n\nOliver Letwin, with a settled background in policy formulation, was appointed Minister of State for Policy (a Cabinet Office role) in the Conservative-Liberal Democrat Coalition on 12 May 2010.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Boroughs of Bridport and Lyme Regis, the Sessional Divisions of Bridport and Cerne, and part of the Sessional Divisions of Dorchester and Sherborne.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Bridport, Dorchester, and Lyme Regis, the Rural Districts of Beaminster, Bridport, Cerne, and Dorchester, and part of the Rural District of Weymouth.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Boroughs of Bridport, Dorchester, and Lyme Regis, the Urban District of Sherborne, the Rural Districts of Beaminster, Bridport, and Sherborne, and part of the Rural District of Dorchester.\n\n1974–1983: As 1950 but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–present: The District of West Dorset except the ward of Owermoigne.\n\nThe West Dorset constituency covers most of the West Dorset district and includes the towns of Dorchester, the county town of Dorset; Bridport, Lyme Regis and Beaminster to the west; and Sherborne to the north.\n\nAside from tourist areas, including the Jurassic Coast which is a UNESCO World Heritage Site, the seat draws on managerial and advanced professional skills in sectors such as mechanical engineering, manufacturing, reconditioning, defence, art and design, which support local trades and retail. A slightly greater than average proportion of people are retired. Workless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 1.4% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\n\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place from 1939, and by the end of this year the following candidates had been selected: \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818930", "title": "Haltemprice and Howden (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Haltemprice and Howden (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nHaltemprice and Howden is a constituency in the East Riding of Yorkshire represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by David Davis, a Conservative who was also Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union until his resignation from that role on 8 July 2018.\n\nThe Electoral Reform Society considers it to be historically the second safest seat in the country, after North Shropshire. Taking into account the previous seats roughly covering its boundaries, the Society considers that the seat has been held continuously by the Conservative Party since the 1837 general election.\n\nThe constituency covers a large, wide area stretching from the border of Hull in the east to Howden in the west and northwards to Holme-on-Spalding-Moor towards York in the Yorkshire Wolds. The bulk of the population is centred in the villages of Willerby, Kirk Ella, Anlaby and Cottingham. Rural Howdenshire forms the bulk of the geographical area of the constituency but provides only a small part of the total electorate.\n\nThe constituency includes many towns and villages along the A63 corridor including, Brough, Elloughton, South Cave, North Ferriby, Swanland, Gilberdyke, Newport, Welton and Melton.\n\n2010–present: The District of East Riding of Yorkshire wards of Cottingham North, Cottingham South, Dale, Howden, Howdenshire, South Hunsley, Tranby, and Willerby and Kirk Ella.\n1997–2010: The Borough of Boothferry wards of East Derwent, East Howdenshire, Gilberdyke, Holme upon Spalding Moor, Howden, Mid Howdenshire, and North Cave, and the East Yorkshire Borough of Beverley wards of Anlaby, Brough, Castle, Kirk Ella, Mill Beck and Croxby, Priory, Skidby and Rowley, South Cave, Springfield, Swanland, and Willerby.\n\nThe constituency was created for the 1997 general election, covering an area previously part of the Beverley and Boothferry constituencies. In 1997, it returned the Conservative David Davis, who had previously been the member for Boothferry; he was re-elected in the 2001, 2005 and 2010 general elections.\n\nThe area was placed as 10th most affluent in the country in the 2003 Barclays Private Clients survey.\n\nOn 12 June 2008, a day after a vote on the extension of detention of terror suspects without charge, in an unexpected move, Davis took the Chiltern Hundreds, effectively resigning his seat as the constituency's MP. He stated this was to force a by-election, in which he intended to provoke a wider public debate on the single issue of the perceived erosion of civil liberties. Over the course of the following week, the campaign was launched on the theme of David Davis for Freedom.\n\nDavis formally resigned as an MP on 18 June 2008, and the by-election took place on 10 July 2008, which Davis won.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818932", "title": "Sean Marquette", "text": "Sean Marquette\n\nSean Marquette (born Sean Anthony Edward Rodriguez; June 30, 1988) is an American actor, who is best known for his portrayal as Johnny Atkins in \"The Goldbergs\" and \"Schooled\", and for voicing Mac in \"Foster's Home for Imaginary Friends\".\n\nMarquette was born in Dallas, Texas, the son of Patricia Helen \"Tisha\" (née Marquette) and Jorge Luis \"George\" Rodriguez, a nuclear engineer. He is the youngest of the three Marquette brothers (himself, Chris, and Eric), all of whom are active in entertainment. His father is Cuban. He made his acting debut on television in the soap opera series \"All My Children\" in 1995 as Jamie Martin. \n"}
{"id": "1818936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818936", "title": "Promise of the Witch King", "text": "Promise of the Witch King\n\nThe Promise of the Witch King is book 2 of the Forgotten Realms trilogy \"Sellswords\". Book 1 was originally part of the Drizzt line of novels and has now been re-released with some short stories making up for the gap in time.\n\nThis book contains the adventures of Artemis Entreri the assassin and Jarlaxle the Drow, formerly of House Baenre, with two new companions: The ghost of a powerful lich called the Witch-King and an oath-bound Knight.\n\nLeaving behind their past, Artemis Entreri and Jarlaxle Baenre become mercenaries in the lands of Damara and Vaasa where fame and glory await any who seek it. They are hired by two dragon sisters, Ilnezhara and Tazmikella, to uncover artifacts left behind by Zhengyi the Witch-King, a powerful lich who ruled the region for many years before falling to the power of King Gareth Dragonsbane and his allies. In search of adventure, glory, and treasure, the pair of unlikely heroes embarks on their mission to destroy, or retrieve, the remaining remnants of Zhengyi's power. In the village of Palishchuk, a half-orc woman, Arrayan Faylin, falls under the spell of the vanquished Zhengyi when she attempts to decipher a tome he left behind. The spell drains her life force to form an exact replica of Castle Perilous, the citadel from which the Witch-King once ruled. Jarlaxle and Entreri join forces with a group of adventurers, including Commander Ellery, legendary hero Mariabronne the Rover, assassins Athrogate and Canthan, the half-elf warrior Calihye, and half-orcs Arrayan and Olgerkhan and set out to investigate the fortress facsimile. After a battle against some monsters, Calihye's close friend, Parissus is killed falling out of a wagon driven by Entreri. Blaming him for the woman's death, Calihye vows to kill him but has different thoughts after Entreri effortlessly disarms her and promises to kill her slowly if she ever threatens him again. As with the original Castle Perilous, the citadel's magic creates an endless supply of gargoyles, who begin to attack the heroes, as well as the poorly defended town of Palishchuk, where Calihye and another injured member of their party are nestled. Jarlaxle and company defeat the gargoyles easily enough and manage to infiltrate the castle, where they split up. Arrayan, having sustained too many wounds compounded with the life-draining burden of the spell, is on her last legs. The wizard Canthan turns on Entreri but proves to be overmatched by the dangerous assassin and is perfunctorily killed. In a rare moment of compassion, Entreri drags the dying body of Arrayan's lover, who is also sharing the burden of the castles dark magic, over to Canthan, and, as the wizard breathes his last breath, places the half-orc's hand upon his dagger to suck Canthan's remaining life force and heal her. An isolated Mariabronne stumbles upon a chamber with demon eggs hanging from the ceiling. The eggs hatch and Mariabronne manages to defeat them, but is stung in the process and injected with deadly venom. Commander Ellery is left alone with Jarlaxle and attempts to assassinate him. A fight promptly ensues, although Jarlaxle seems reluctant to kill her, as they have been lovers for some time and the opportunistic mercenary would always prefer to bed women than slay them, but Entreri shows up and mortally wounds her with his jeweled dagger. When the remnants of the band reunite, Athrogate takes it upon himself to do what Canthan could not and proceeds to duel against Entreri. Despite all his considerable skill, Entreri's parry and thrust style of fighting is no match for Athrogate's deadly morningstars. He would have promptly been killed but for Jarlaxle, who tosses a dimensional hole concealed in his hat at the dwarf. Athrogate becomes imprisoned in a void and agrees to obey Jarlaxle in return for his freedom. The five remaining companions venture into the heart of the castle, where they are met by a powerful dracolich who served as a minion for Zhengyi. Seemingly unstoppable, the dracolich gives the heroes a hellacious fight, but is finally defeated when Entreri's enchanted dragon statue spews dragon flame upon it. Jarlaxle, never one to pass up powerful magic, quickly salvages the soul of the dracolich, contained in a skull pendant, as well as a magical figurine for summoning a nightmare steed off Mariabronne's corpse.\n\nA reviewer from \"Publishers Weekly\" comments: \"Salvatore keeps the action hopping as the duo use every trick in their repertoire to achieve their goal—finding magical treasure hidden by the long-dead Witch-King. Lovers of all things elvish, especially those who like butt-kicking swordplay, dastardly intrigues and ingenious hocus-pocus, will relish this fantasy.\"\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" states \"A formulaic, trite and derivative swords-and-sorcery fantasy that reads like a novelized Dungeons & Dragons adventure.\"\n\nPat Ferrara of mania.com comments: \"The second book of arguably the coolest Forgotten Realms literary spin-off to date, Promise of the Witch-King continues the Sellswords Series without skipping a beat. Tightly knit plotlines, absurd yet memorable and engaging characters, and hellishly fast-paced storytelling culminate in a wild melee of swords and sorcery led by the master himself.\"\n\n\"Promise of the Witch King\" reached 15 on the New York Times bestseller list on November 13, 2005.\n"}
{"id": "1818938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818938", "title": "Operation Coldstore", "text": "Operation Coldstore\n\nOperation Coldstore, sometimes spelled Operation Cold Store, was the code name for a covert security operation carried out in Singapore on 2 February 1963 which led to the arrest of 113 people, who were detained without trial under the Preservation of Public Service Security Ordinance (PSSO). In official accounts, the operation was a security operation \"aimed at crippling the Communist open front organisation,\" which threatened Singapore's internal security. The operation was authorised by the Internal Security Council which was composed of representatives from the British, Singapore and Malayan Federal governments.\n\nThe post-war conditions in Singapore were harsh for the working class as they had to grapple with poor working conditions which were exploitative and discriminatory. In the same period, British decolonisation of Singapore resulted in the installation of a new constitution in 1955 which encouraged \"local participation in politics\". The liberalisation of Singapore’s political environment led to the emergence of \"pro-labour left-wing movements\" which represented the rights of the working class. The Barisan Sosialis would emerge as a prominent and popular left-wing group in 1961 along with Jamit Singh. Many of the left-wing groups organised demonstrations to achieve concessions for the workers. Some of these labour movements graduated into movements promoting self-determination and independence from the British for economic progress. They drew inspiration from global anti-colonial struggles across Asia and Africa occurring in the post-war era.\n\nAgainst the backdrop of global decolonisation and independence, the Communist Party of Malaya (MCP) emerged in Malaya. The British and Malayan leaders' efforts to contain communism resulted in the Malayan Emergency. Under the emergency conditions, individuals suspected to be involved in communist activities could be detained without trial. This restricted and regulated environment was replicated in Singapore which facilitated the execution of Operation Coldstore in 1963 under the provisions of the Preservation of Public Service Ordinance (PSSO).\n\nThe experiences from fighting the MCP in the 1950s led the British and Malayan leaders to formulate the view that the Chinese were linked to Communist movements and were seen as proxies of Communist China. As a result, the emergence of left-wing movements which were largely led by Chinese students and workers became perceived to be detrimental to British interests in Singapore and Malaya.\n\nIn the 1959 Singapore General Elections, the People's Action Party (PAP) led by Lee Kuan Yew contested and emerged victorious by winning 43 out of 51 constituencies. However, victory was short-lived as they were later defeated in the Hong Lim by-election in April 1961 and the Anson by-election in July 1961. The PAP candidates lost to Ong Eng Guan and David Marshall in both by-elections.\n\nThe PAP was also increasingly divided and these schisms became visible between 1960 and 1961. On 20 July 1961, left-wing members of the PAP defected from the PAP after Lee Kuan Yew's call for a motion of confidence in the government. Most of these members later formed the Barisan Sosialis (Barisan) on 30 July 1961, led by Lim Chin Siong. As many of the members who defected to the Barisan were prominent grassroots leaders, the Barisan had a strong support base and became a strong opposition party to the PAP.\n\nGiven the Barisan's large support base, political onlookers speculated that the Barisan could potentially win the 1963 General Election. The British colonial records revealed that Lee Kuan Yew felt threatened by the powerful left-wing movements and had on several occasions tried to remove his opponents by invoking the PSSO to detain his opponents.\n\nThe British believed that independence for Singapore should be granted with a merger with Malaya so that economic resources could be shared and that their concerns of Singapore becoming an \"independent, predominantly Chinese polity\" could be alleviated. The PAP, which was led by the English-educated Lee Kuan Yew, temporarily eased their fears in 1959.\n\nLee Kuan Yew and the PAP also favoured merger with Malaya because the assistance of Malaya was required to suppress the growing left-wing which challenged the PAP, particularly in the wake of losing the two by-elections in 1961. Lee was adamant that communism could only be eradicated through merger. In his memoirs, Lee believed that the communist threat was real throughout the 1950s and 1960s in Singapore, and also perceived that Lim Chin Siong was one of the key communist leaders. Such sentiments were also evident in the Malayan government and it feared that a weakened PAP would become replaced by the radical Chinese left-wing groups and pose a threat to neighbouring Malaya which was predominantly Malay. Thus, Malaya slowly agreed to merger with Singapore, but on the pre-condition that communist sympathisers from the left-wing movements are arrested. On 27 May 1961, following the PAP's defeats in the two by-elections, Malayan Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman announced that, \"sooner or later Malaya, Singapore and the Borneo territories should work together for close political and economic cooperation.\"\n\nBy 1962, it was clear that the Malayan government considered the arrests of Singapore's left-wing groups, which they perceived as communist breeding grounds, as one of the two pre-conditions for the creation of Malaysia. The debates over the specifics of the arrests resulted in a power struggle in 1961 between the British, Singapore and Malayan leaders. In February 1962, the Malayans insisted on the apprehension of opposition leaders in Singapore and warned that they would pull out from the Internal Security Council if their requests were ignored. However, the British officials in Singapore opposed such oppressive measures and argued that evidence had to be presented before arrests could be made. Observing that the Malayans were pushing for an arrest programme, Lee Kuan Yew jumped onto the bandwagon in March 1962. The Malayans' call for arrests could revive Lee's earlier attempts in 1960 to remove \"certain communists close to Lim Chin Siong\" by invoking the PSSO.\n\nIn May 1962, a joint report was produced by Singapore and Malaya and presented to the Malayan, Singapore and British governments. The report advocated for an \"intensification of efforts to expose the communist, and deny them facilities, culminating in the detention of those shown to be Communist conspirators… with Lim Chin Siong at the top of the list...\" The Earl of Selkirk disagreed with the report's recommendations by highlighting that \"the Singapore Special Branch have virtually failed to identify directly any communist threats during the last three years\" and opined that \"Lee Kuan Yew is quite clearly attracted by the prospect of wiping out his main political opposition before the next general elections\". Therefore, cautioning against using the PSSO for political rather than security reasons.\n\nBy 28 June 1962, the absence of concrete arrests led Geofroy Tory, the British representative in Kuala Lumpur, to report that the Malayans were on the verge of withdrawing from merger if the pre-condition for arrests was unmet. This inaction was in part due to the Earl of Selkirk and Philip Moore's continued belief that insufficient evidence existed to demonstrate the existence of subversive communist activities. Moore, the Acting British Commissioner for Singapore, reasoned that Lim Chin Siong's political actions were constitutional and could not warrant an arrest. In July 1962, Moore opined that \"Lim is working very much on his own and that his primary objective is not the communist millennium... It is far from certain that having attained this objective, Lim would necessarily prove a compliant tool of Peking or Moscow.\" Distrust continued to mount between the British, Singapore and Malayans leaders over the specifics of the arrest as Selkirk reported to Sandys that \"the Malays talk of arrested 25 for security reasons; Lee Kuan Yew talks of arrested 250 for security and political reasons; in fact, I believe both of them wish to arrest effective political opposition and blame us for doing so.\" The leaders disagreed on who would assume responsibility for the impending arrests. However, while the pre-conditions remained unresolved, the issue of citizenship for merger had been decided. Malaya and Singapore agreed that with merger, internal security would come under the purview of the federal government. Singapore's citizens will also attain Malaysian citizenship, but they were not entitled to vote or run for elections across the causeway.\n\nMeanwhile, as discussions for merger and the arrests were underway, the discussed terms of the merger were disclosed in August 1961 in Singapore. Left-wing groups such as the Barisan were appalled as they perceived merger terms to be discriminatory and deprived Singaporeans of their voting rights in the federal elections. In addition, internal security would come under the purview of the federal government which Singaporeans could not vote for. The Barisan vehemently questioned the terms of the merger and encouraged their supporters to cast blank votes in upcoming referendum on the merger. The Barisan also argued that merger was a neo-colonial construct because it was conceived under the auspices of the British. However, Lee Kuan Yew wrote in his memoirs that these were \"delaying tactics\" that directed \"people to concentrate first on the anti-colonial struggle\" and conflating the Barisan with the communist, Lee wrote that Barisan's larger goal was communist subversion. To the dismay of the left-wing, the referendum results of the merger revealed that the PAP's merger scheme had won 71 percent of the votes. The results encouraged Lee to believe that he now had the mandate to pursue merger and remove the left-wing groups.\n\nThe breakthrough in the discussion on the arrests came when a rebellion led by A. M. Azahari from the Party Rak'yat occurred in Brunei on 8 December 1962. Lim Chin Siong and the Barisan Sosialis expressed their support for the movement as an anti-colonial struggle but it was unclear if they were directly involved in the revolt. In any case, it was quickly discovered that on 3 December 1962, Azahari had had a rendezvous with Lim. Colonial records reveal that in a conversation with Moore, that Lee Kuan Yew had described the rebellion as a \"heaven-sent opportunity\" to legitimise the arrests of Lim Chin Siong and left-wing groups.\n\nIn response to the rebellion, the Malayan government called for an Internal Security Council meeting to discuss the arrest of the Barisan leaders. While the meeting of Lim Chin Siong and Azahari reinforced the Singapore Special Branch's belief in an imminent communist subversion, the Earl of Selkirk still had his reservations about making the arrests. However, Sandys, the Colonial and Common Wealth Secretary pressured Selkirk to \"take advantage of the Barisan's declaration of support for the Indonesian-sponsored insurrection in Brunei. Selkirk was to push through the arrest under the cover of the Brunei emergency.” The arrests were approved by the British Prime Minister, Harold Macmillan, on 12 December 1962 and the Internal Security Council promptly reconvened on 13 December to firm up details of the arrests.\n\nThe arrests were scheduled for 16 December 1962 at 0200 hours but shortly before the scheduled date Lee Kuan Yew expanded the list of arrestees to include Malayan parliamentarians Lim Kean Siew and Ahmad Boestaman because they were opposed to merger. Lee also wanted the Malayan government to assume joint responsibility for the arrests and even composed a draft public statement for them to present in the federal parliament. Malayan Prime Minister Tunku Abdul Rahman rejected Lee's demands on the grounds that insufficient evidence existed to justify the arrest of the Malayan parliamentarians.\n\nIn preparation for the arrests, a meeting was held at the Tunku's office on 15 December 1962 at 2200 hours. Lee continued to insist that the Malayan parliamentarians had to be arrested and was compelled to cancel the Singapore operation if his request was not granted. The Tunku, who was \"holding a party next door\" did not accede to Lee's request and said that Lee was trying to \"use him to justify the arrest of Singapore opposition.\". Lee, on the other hand, was worried that if only the radical left were put away, the Tunku would no longer have any incentive for Singapore to merge with Malaya.\n\nConsequently, the operation fell apart with grevious consequences. The Tunku was 'almost persuaded that Malaya's interest would be best served by taking North Borneo and Sarawak... into the new Federation and leaving Singapore out', while Lee was coldly resigned to this and left for a vacation in Cameron Highlands – unless the Federation took the initiative, the Singapore government would not bear joint responsibility for any arrests. \n\nOn 17 December 1962, the Federation withdrew from the Internal Security Council, leaving the British aghast. On 28 December 1962, Selkirk cabled Sandys, warning him of the real danger that the Tunku would not be prepared to include Singapore in Malaysia, and that a compromise would have to be reached.\n\nSelkirk was also uncomfortable with the presence of the \"communist united front members continuing to work in Singapore in the light of Indonesian activities in Borneo\". Thus, he repositioned his stance and wrote to the Secretary of State for Colonies advocating for prompt round-up of Communists in Singapore and estimated around 70 arrestees to be apprehended. The Malayan leaders were also anxious to employ the Brunei rebellion as to make the arrests, but Lee Kuan Yew remained uncontactable in Cameron Highlands. Colonial records reveal that Goh Keng Swee had mentioned that “there was no need for the Singapore government to do anything since the British would be forced by the Tunku to take action.”\n\nIn January 1963, the Tunku was alarmed when Lee Kuan Yew continued to expand the arrest list to include \"some members of Marshall's and Ong's parties\" despite \"protestations of Singapore Special Branch.\" Nevertheless, on 18 January 1963, the Malayan government agreed on the specifics of the arrests \"except for two matters... the UPP members and the proposal that Lim be offered by Lee the opportunity to leave Singapore after the arrest.\" \nHowever, Tunku warned Geofroy Tory, the British High Commissioner in Kuala Lumpur on 30 January 1963, that 'if this operation failed, merger with Singapore was off'. Tory, in turn warned everyone else, particularly his British colleagues and especially Lord Selkirk, to put their reservations aside as 'this was positively the last time' .\n\nAll parties finally agreed to proceed, and 2 February 1963 was selected for the commencement of Operation Coldstore. Lee opted for this day because holding the Operation \"before the Chinese New Year celebrations... would dampen any adverse reaction.\"\n\nOperation Coldstore commenced at 0215 hours on 2 February 1963. The police and Special Branch officers gathered in Johor before heading out to Singapore at 0315 hours to round up suspected communist sympathisers. A total of 113 people were arrested. Those detained included \"31 in the political sphere... 40 trade union leaders, 18 from the education sphere, 11 from cultural circles, 7 members of rural committees of hawkers, nine people only identified as members of the MCP and 14 others.\" Among those arrested from the political sphere were 24 members from the Barisan Sosialis. The arrests were defended by invoking the PSSO with claims that the arrestees had \"the long-term aim of the Malayan Communist Party to infiltrate and take over left-wing political parties, workers' associations and trade unions in the colony in order to foment violent unrest.” A representative from the People's Action Party, S. Rajaratnam, justified the operation by stating that \"action was taken not because they are Communists but because the danger of subversion and violence by communist in aid of these alien interventions.\" The Internal Security Council report stated that those arrested were \"hard core organisers and their collaborators of the Communist conspiracy in Singapore believed that the armed struggle remains a weapon to be employed whenever the opportunity arises.\"\n\nSelected list of detainees: \n113 people, including:\n\nOfficial accounts represent Operation Coldstore as a tough but necessary action to safeguard the internal security of Singapore as well as those of Singapore's neighbouring countries. At a press conference on 4 February 1963, Lee Kuan Yew claimed that the \"open front communist organisations were ready to mount violent agitation to coincide with events outside Singapore\" which could also \"endangered the security of Malaysia.\" He also stated that \"if left alone without outside factors, Singapore would never have contemplated such sweeping actions.\" However, Lee's comments were not well received by the British and the Malayan governments as it shifted the responsibility for arrests on them while denying Lee's active involvement in the events leading up to the operation.\n\nThe execution of Operation Coldstore was followed by a series of protests and demonstrations. On 22 April 1963, four Barisan Sosialis leaders, along with Lee Siew Choh, demonstrated against Operation Coldstore at the Prime Minister's Office\nbut were later apprehended and \"charged with abetment to overawe the government by force\".\n\nOperation Coldstore led to the arrests of Nanyang University students who had been involved in opposing the referendum in 1962, and the termination of the Nanyang University student publication permit. These actions triggered widespread student protests against the repressive PSSO. In addition, the student unions of polytechnics, Nanyang University and the University of Malaya jointly produced a proclamation against the arrests and termination of their publication permit.\n\nAmnesty International came to the fore and campaigned against Operation Coldstore from its headquarters in London, although their efforts were not successful.\n\nThe conditions under which the detainees were held came under scrutiny by the Singapore Assembly when it was revealed that the detainees were kept in \"solitary confinement until their interrogation had been completed\" while \"the interrogation process itself appeared to be unnecessarily protracted.\" The extended length of interrogations also alarmed the British. In addition, in late May 1963, the British investigating team of Members of Parliament from the Labour Party, which included Fenner Brockway, questioned the manner in which the detainees were treated.\n\nThe Barisan Sosialis was the People's Action Party's strongest contenders in politics. However, Operation Coldstore had substantially weakened the Barisan as most of its key personnel had been detained. According to Matthew Jones, \"the Barisan never recovered from the combined effects of the outcome of the referendum result and the 'Cold Store' detentions.” Jones also highlights that numerous Barisan leaders and members were bogged down with lawsuits and its followers were \"demoralised\". In addition, Tan Jing Quee mentions that \"the two main pillars of the left-wing movement in Singapore, the Barisan Sosialis and SATU, were decapitated,\" following Operation Coldstore.\n\nOperation Coldstore also set off the May Day rally in Farrer Park which was popularly supported by 39 left-wing unions and amassed a crowd of approximately 10,000 people. The rally was accompanied by a call by ST Bani, the president of SATU, who \"urged that a general election be held in Singapore under United Nations auspices\".\n\nIn the end, the People's Action Party won the 1963 General Elections and Singapore merged with Malaya, Sarawak and North Borneo to form Malaysia on 16 September 1963.\n\nAn ongoing debate on Operation Coldstore is whether the extent of communist threat in Singapore had been inflated in the 1950s and 1960s. Individuals such as Said Zahari and Chin Peng suggest that the communist threat could have been exaggerated. Said Zahari, a journalist and one of those arrested during Operation Cold store, said that the operation was not about arresting the communists as \"the Communist Party of Malaya in Singapore was no longer active\". Instead, the operation was used to weaken the opposition to the People's Action Party in Singapore.\n\nChin Peng, then the Secretary-General of the Communist Party of Malaya, said in his memoirs, \"Contrary to countless allegations made over the years by Singapore leaders, academics and the Western Press, we never controlled Barisan Socialists.\" He also wrote, \"Operation Cold Store shattered our underground network throughout the island. Those who escaped the police net went into hiding. Many fled to Indonesia\".\n\nHowever, historians such as Kumar Ramakrishna disagree and assert that the communist threat was real. He argues that the absence of subversive communist activities was caused by the clever strategy that had been adopted of working within the constitution to subvert Singapore to communism.\n\nThe maturation of the 30-year rule has led to the release of declassified British archival documents pertaining to Operation Coldstore. However, the documents in the Internal Security Department archives of Singapore remain classified. Privilege access to these classified documents has been granted to scholars such as Kumar Ramakrishna. This situation has prompted historians such as Tan Tai Yong to urge the government to \"widen access to the archives\" as \"such access should not hinge on who is asking for them\" so that historians can \"offer different perspectives.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818940", "title": "Eastbourne (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Eastbourne (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEastbourne is a constituency (also known as a seat) for the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. It was created as one of nine in Sussex in 1885, since when the seat has reduced in geographic size reflecting the growth of its main settlement, Eastbourne.\n\nThe seat was re-won in 2019 by Caroline Ansell Conservative Party; she first won the seat in the 2015 General election. Since the seat's creation it has been won by candidates from either of these two political parties (and their early forebears, the Liberal Party and the Unionist Party).\n\nFor 94 years of the 20th Century, the seat was represented by Conservative MPs. The seat in the 1930s saw three unopposed candidates: in 1932, March 1935 and November 1935. Eastbourne has been considered relative to others a very marginal seat, as well as a swing seat, since 1997 as its winner's majority has not exceeded 7.86% of the vote since the 8.9% majority won in 1992 and the seat has changed hands four times from and including the year 1992.\n\nThe constituency contains urban and suburban developments, including the whole of the Eastbourne Borough Council administrative area, as well as the village of Willingdon on its outskirts, which forms a small part of the Wealden District Council administrative area.\n\nEastbourne itself is on the edge of the London Commuter Belt and is a coastal resort town. The Eastbourne seat has narrowed at every Boundary Commission Periodic Review, as the population of the core town has grown.\n\nChris Hanretty, the Professor of Politics at Royal Holloway, estimated that Eastbourne voted 57.6% to 42.4% in favour of leaving the European Union during the 2016 referendum.\n\nThis seat was created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885. Its territory had previously been incorporated in the East Sussex constituency, which in turn had been created with two seats by the Reform Act 1832 as a division of the medieval-founded Sussex constituency which had two seats.\n\n1885–1918: The Corporate Towns of Pevensey and Seaford, the Sessional Divisions of Hailsham and Uckfield (except the parishes of East Hoathly and Waldron), and part of the Sessional Division of Lewes.\n\n1918–1950: The Borough of Eastbourne, the Rural District of Eastbourne, and in the Rural District of Hailsham the parishes of Arlington, Chalvington, Chiddingly, Hailsham, Hellingly, Laughton, and Ripe.\n\n1950–1955: The Boroughs of Eastbourne and Bexhill, and in the Rural District of Hailsham the parishes of East Dean, Friston, Hooe, Jevington, Ninfield, Pevensey, Polegate, Wartling, Westham, and Willingdon.\n\n1955–1974: The Borough of Eastbourne, and part of the Rural District of Hailsham.\n\n1974–1983: The Borough of Eastbourne, and in the Rural District of Hailsham the parishes of East Dean, Friston, Jevington, Pevensey, Polegate, Westdean, Westham, and Willingdon.\n\n1983–1997: The Borough of Eastbourne, and the District of Wealden wards of Polegate North, Polegate South, and Willingdon.\n\n1997–2010: As prior, substituting East Dean for the Polegate wards.\n\n2010–present: As prior, less East Dean.\n\nFrom 1910 until 1987 the seat returned Conservative Party candidates at every election. The large rural vote within the seat, until boundary changes in 1983, bolstered support for the Conservative Party - since rural voters in South East England tended to be wealthier and more right-wing than urban voters.\n\nThe seat became a marginal, or swing seat, from the 1990 by-election onwards, being closely fought for between the two locally dominant parties. A Liberal Democrat gained the seat at the 2010 general election, in a vote which saw Eastbourne return the sixth-lowest Labour share of the vote of the 631 candidates who stood at the election, with only 4.8%. In 2015, the seat was the 9th most marginal of the Conservative Party's 331 seats, by share of the vote.\n\n\nIn 2016, the incumbent MP Caroline Ansell, publicly floated a proposal to change the constituency name from Eastbourne to Eastbourne & Willingdon. However, the idea appeared to gain no significant public support and the MP did not formally apply to the Boundary Commission to make any change.\n\nThis constituency underwent boundary changes between the 1992 and 1997 general elections and thus change in share of vote is based on a notional calculation.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818948", "title": "1984 (disambiguation)", "text": "1984 (disambiguation)\n\n1984 is a year. It may also refer to:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818950", "title": "Modenas", "text": "Modenas\n\n\"Syarikat Motosikal dan Enjin Nasional Sdn. Bhd\" (National Motorcycle and Engine Company), or known as Modenas for short is a Malaysian national motorcycle company producing various small motorcycle models below 400cc targeted for local market and export. The company's headquarters and factory are located at the small town of Gurun, Kedah, Malaysia.\n\nThe history of the company began at the early 1990s. After the success of Malaysian automotive manufacturer Proton, the government looked forward to launch a national motorcycle project. Modenas was formed in 1995 and majority of its shares were held by Kawasaki, Sojitz, Khazanah Nasional and DRB-HICOM.\n\nModenas achieved its 1,000,000th unit production in June 2007. Currently Modenas is exporting its products to 17 countries worldwide with Greece, Russia and South America being the largest importer.\n\nGenerally, Modenas produces motorcycle models ranging below 250 cc. Most models are scooter models and Honda Super Cub compatible mopeds, or known by Malaysians as \"cub仔\" (kapcai).\n\nModenas Kriss is the first model launched by Modenas in 1996. The model is actually named after a Malay traditional weapon, \"kris\", though some motorcycle shops in the United Kingdom had mistakenly advertised the model to be named from the acronym of a famous American motorcycle racer, Kenny Roberts because Modenas had once built some racing motorcycles for Modenas KR Motorcycle Grand Prix team.\n\nIt was previewed to the public during Malaysian National Day parade in 1996 and began production at the end of 1996. The original model only uses drum brakes, but in 1999 the front disc brake model was launched, known as Kriss 2 (or Kriss 115 Sports in some countries). Powered by 111 cc Kawasaki-developed engines, Modenas Kriss becomes the best-selling motorcycle model in Malaysia.\n\nAnother Kriss variant known as Kriss SG was launched in 2002. However, unlike other Kriss variants, this model did not sell very well due to its outdated design.\n\nAll Kriss series variants outcame major cosmetic changes in 2003 especially at the lights for newer, better looks.\n\nIn 2005, all Kriss 110 variants have been phased out to make way for production of Kristar, leaving only Kriss 100 as the sole variant of Kriss. However, Modenas decided to bring back the Kriss 110 into production in August 2006 due to extremely high demand from the customers, which is known as Kriss 110SE.\n\nThis is the Modenas Newest Kriss Motorcycle. Since Kriss is the most good selling motorcycle in Malaysia (rather than Kristar), Modenas decided to bring Kriss back and called them Kriss 110 SE (Second Edition).\n\nAfter the success of Kriss variants to dominate 110 cc small motorcycle segment in Malaysian market, Modenas launched another Kriss variant, this time with a 97 cc engine developed by Modenas. This model uses the same chassis and components as its other Kriss 'brothers' except the engine. However, there is no disc brake option available for Kriss 100.\n\nThe Modenas KR3 was the first racing motorcycle ever produced by Modenas. It featured a 500 cc V3 engine which was different from most 500 cc Motorcycle GP which used 4-cylinder engines. The KR3 was built by Modenas for Team Roberts (Managed by Kenny Roberts.) Motorcycle Grand Prix team from 1997 to 2001 before taken over by Proton from 2002 to 2004 with the same machine before the team moved to Proton KR5 machines.\n\nIn 1999, Modenas launched a small cruiser model based on popular Kawasaki Eliminator 125 cruiser series. This model is aimed for bikers who wish to own larger motorcycles that are based upon the style of American cruiser motorcycles but cannot afford to own them, due to very high duties on imported motorcycles placed by the government and also refusal of the banks to finance loans on large motorcycles.\n\nDuring these recent years, more and more scooter models were introduced in Malaysia. However, Kawasaki never produced any scooters, therefore Modenas had to source from a Taiwanese scooter company for the technology transfer.\n\nThe earliest production batches suffered poor handling, and after some improvements the handling of this model became better and Modenas Karisma dominates the Malaysian scooter market since 2004.\n\nIn August 2003, Modenas introduced three scooters, based on models produced by PGO Scooters of Taiwan. Mostly as the great competitor of scooter producer such as Suzuki VS, Yamaha and Honda.\n\nModenas Elit scooter, basically a rebadged PGO Scooters T-Rex was launched as an alternative to the Karisma model, in two displacement choices – 125 cc and the larger, more powerful 150 cc variant. Another PGO-based 150 cc model, the PGO G-Max 150(called as BLUR 150 in USA & BOBCAT 150 in Europe) was introduced as the \"Modenas Elit Sports\" in Malaysia, with a more aggressive engine tuning, alloy swing-arm and different more solid chassis/new era body design. The standard engine of Elit Sport 150 cc pick up and top speed can easily beat Standard Cup Motors such as Honda EX5 100, Honda Wave 125, Modenas Kriss 110, Modenas Kriss 120, Yamaha Lagenda 100 and 115, and Nouvo LC 135.\n\nModenas Ceria scooter was launched together with the Elit model. Also based on a PGO (the BuBu 100), this more retro-styled scooter uses a smaller 101 cc engine, making Ceria the scooter with the smallest displacement ever produced by Modenas.\n\nAfter years producing only 4-stroke powered motorcycles, Modenas launched its first 2-stroke motorcycle, Dinamik together with Elit and Ceria scooters. It is also claimed by Modenas that this model exceeded Euro 2 emission standards without the addition of a catalytic converter.\n\nThis model was built by Modenas as a preparation to take part in Malaysian Cub Prix tournament which are currently dominated by Yamaha machines. During the tournament, Modenas increases the displacement up to 125 cc to provide more power and torque.\n\nAt the end of February 2004, Modenas launched their first water-cooled scooter, Modenas Elegan. This model is targeted for those who wants to travel long distances. In addition to more powerful water-cooled engine, Elegan scooter features a large gasoline tank accessible under the handlebars, large underseat storage compartment, and digital meter panel for odometer, fuel gauge and thermometer. The engine cylinder is coated with Ni-Si ceramic for better reliability during long distance travels.\n\nKristar was launched by Modenas at the end of 2004. Modenas decided to produce Kristar as their all-new model after nearly a decade of Modenas Kriss production.\n\nEven though Kristar uses the same engine as Kriss, Modenas claimed that Kristar achieved better fuel economy of 46.95 km/L @ 90 km/h, compared with Kriss with the fuel economy of 44 km/L @ 90 km/h. The increase of fuel economy is due to the installation of the fuel tank breather tube connected to the inlet manifold for better fuel emission and better fuel economy.\n\nBesides of the new design and better fuel economy, Kristar also features an underseat compartment that can be opened from the same ignition key slot, dual headlights, stylish superbike-like muffler and rear light failure detection system which claimed by Modenas as the only model equipped with this system.\n\nModenas Passion is the latest scooter model launched by Modenas in January 2006. Using a pair of 14-inch cast iron wheels, Modenas Passion has a direct competition with Yamaha Ego.\n\nModenas X-cite is the latest motorcycle model launched by Modenas on 12 September 2006 as the largest \"Cub仔\" (kapcai) model ever manufactured by Modenas to compete with the water-cooled Yamaha Y135LC.\n\nThe main features of the Modenas X-cite are as follows:-\n\nThe newer Modenas that was launched in March 2009. It is reintroduced as a redesigned chassis based on X-cite 130.\n\nThis model has become one of the Malaysian best seller Moped in 2009. GT 128 also has the highest spec in its class, nearing the 135 LC. Currently GT128 is the flagship model of Modenas market. Besides, GT 128 is known for low fuel consumption at economical speed compared to its competitors.\n\nThe redowngraded of Modenas GT128 with the 110 cc engine. It uses the revolusioner GT128 chassis while the main power is came from 110 cc kriss 1 redesign engine.\nThe Modenas CT is the replacement of Modenas Kriss 1 and 2.\n\nCurrently, Modenas has develop an E-Bike, known as CTric that use 100% of electricity to move it. With its zero emission when used, it was predicted to launch before the end of 2010.\n\nA fully electric bike using the same chassis as CT110/100. It was launched on 17 June 2011 and also the first time MODENAS entering the electric vehicle segment.\n\nThis model is believed to be the first electric bike model using the underbone chassis which is most of the small electric bike is based on the scooter models.\n\nModenas ACE 115 has launched their new model after the Modenas CT. The concept of this bike is scooter with moped which mean the bike have 2 characteristics. This bike also has new feature on it, there is a vertical monoshock like that on the Ducati Panigale.\n\nThe newest moped from Modenas since Ace 115. There are 2 colours available upon launching. Cherry Red & Cherry Blue.\n\nLaunch at April 2017, upgrade version of Kriss MR1 with 110cc. Kriss MR2 has 4.5L tank capacity, front disk brake and more stylish design than its predecessors. Speculation said that Kriss MR2 are the rebadge of Zongshen ZS 110-26 motorcycle.\n\nRebadge of bajaj auto RS/NS 200.\n\nModenas formed a factory team and supported some other teams using their machines to take part in Malaysian Cub Prix, a tournament of moped held in Malaysia to compete with Yamaha and Suzuki machines. The teams use Modenas Kriss machines for Wira category and Modenas Dinamik for Expert category.\n\nModenas also used to take part in MotoGP via Team Modenas KR before taken over by Proton in 2001. Kenny Roberts and Bud Aksland built the 500 cc V3-cylinder 2-stroke machine for the team.\n"}
{"id": "1818951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818951", "title": "Wells (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Wells (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nWells is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by James Heappey of the Conservative Party.\n\nThe original two-member borough constituency was created in 1295, and abolished by the Reform Act 1867 with effect from the 1868 general election. Its revival saw a more comparable size of electorate across the country and across Somerset, with a large swathe of the county covered by this new seat, under the plans of the third Reform Act and the connected Redistribution of Seats Act 1885 which was enacted the following year.\n\nThe seat was largely Conservative-held during the 20th century and has never elected a Labour MP ever in its history. The only other political party to have been represented is the Liberal Democrats or their predecessor, the Liberal Party, who achieved a marginal victory in 2010, see marginal seat.\n\nSir William Hayter was chief government whip of the Commons under three Liberal Prime Ministers governing from the Lords, (Lord John) Russell, Aberdeen and Palmerston.\n\nSo too in this role was Lord Hylton from 1916 to 1922 alongside the Lord Colebrooke in the Conservative-Liberal National coalition.\n\nRobert Sanders was Deputy Chief Whip in the House of Commons, 1918–1919, and Minister of Agriculture and Fisheries, 1922–1924.\n\nRobert Boscawen was a government whip (1988–1989).\n\nDavid Heathcoat-Amory was Minister for Europe (1993–1994) and later a Shadow Cabinet member (1997–2001).\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Wells, and the Sessional Divisions of Axbridge and Wells (except the civil parish of Binegar).\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Glastonbury and Wells, the Urban Districts of Shepton Mallet and Street, the Rural Districts of Shepton Mallet, Wells, and Wincanton, and in the Rural District of Frome the civil parishes of Cloford, Marston Bigot, Nunney, Wanstrow, Whatley, and Witharn Friary.\n\n1950–1983: The Municipal Boroughs of Glastonbury and Wells, the Urban Districts of Frome, Shepton Mallet, and Street, and the Rural Districts of Frome, Shepton Mallet, Wells, and Wincanton.\n\n1983–2010: The District of Mendip wards of Ashwick, Avalon, Chilcompton and Ston Easton, Ebbor, Glastonbury St Benedict's, Glastonbury St Edmund's, Glastonbury St John's, Glastonbury St Mary's, Moor, Nedge, Pylcombe, Rodney, Sheppey, Shepton Mallet, Street North, Street South, Wells Central, Wells St Cuthbert's, and Wells St Thomas, and the District of Sedgemoor wards of Axbridge, Axe Vale, Berrow, Brent, Burnham North, Burnham South, Cheddar, Highbridge, Mark, Shipham, and Wedmore.\n\n2010–present: The District of Mendip wards of Ashwick and Ston Easton, Avalon, Chilcompton, Glastonbury St Benedict’s, Glastonbury St Edmund’s, Glastonbury St John’s, Glastonbury St Mary’s, Knowle, Moor, Nedge, Pylcombe, Rodney and Priddy, St Cuthbert Out North and West, Shepton East, Shepton West, Street North, Street South, Street West, Wells Central, Wells St Cuthbert’s, and Wells St Thomas, and the District of Sedgemoor wards of Axbridge, Axe Vale, Berrow, Brent North, Burnham North, Burnham South, Cheddar and Shipham, Highbridge, Knoll, and Wedmore and Mark.\n\nAside from energy, transportation, retail and distribution which are major sectors, agriculture and tourism are still important areas to this central and quite quintessential part of Somerset which includes the coastal resort of Burnham-on-Sea, the city of Wells with its cathedral, and notable natural landmarks such as the Cheddar Gorge and Glastonbury Tor. The site of the Glastonbury Festival also lies within this seat, causing a major influx of visitors in late June.\n\nWorkless claimants who were registered jobseekers were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.1% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\nAnother general election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected;\n\nJoliffe's elevation to the peerage, becoming Lord Hylton, caused a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;\n\n\nLamont's death caused a by-election.\n\nHayter was appointed Judge Advocate General of the Armed Forces, requiring a by-election.\n\nTudway's death caused a by-election.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818952", "title": "Giovanni Botero", "text": "Giovanni Botero\n\nGiovanni Botero (c. 1544 – 1617) was an Italian thinker, priest, poet, and diplomat, best known for his work \" Della ragion di Stato (The Reason of State)\". In this work, Botero argued against the amoral political philosophy associated with Niccolò Machiavelli's \"The Prince\", not only because it lacked a Christian foundation but also because it simply did not work. Basing his political and economic ideas primarily on the thought of Thomas Aquinas, Botero argued for a more sophisticated relationship between princes and their subjects, one that would give the people more power in the political and economic matters of the state. In this way, Botero foreshadowed the thought of later liberal thinkers, such as John Locke and Adam Smith.\n\nBorn around 1544 in Bene Vagienna, in the northern Italian principality of Piedmont, Botero was sent to the Jesuit college in Palermo at the age of 15. A year later, he moved to the Roman College, he was introduced to the teaching of some of the most influential Catholic thinkers of the sixteenth century, including Juan Mariana, who, in his On the King and the Education of the King, would argue for the popular overthrow of tyrannical rulers.\n\nIn 1565, Botero was sent to teach philosophy and rhetoric at the Jesuit colleges in France, first in Billom, and then in Paris. The second half of the sixteenth century saw the kingdom dramatically, and often violently divided by the French Wars of Religion. Paris especially was heating up during Botero's stay there from 1567-1569, and he was recalled to Italy after getting too caught up in the excitement, apparently for his involvement in an anti-Spanish protest.\n\nBotero spent the 1570s drifting from one Jesuit college to another, Milan, Padua, Genoa, and then back in Milan. After a \"doctrinally incorrect\" sermon he gave questioning the Pope's temporal power, he was discharged from the Jesuit order in 1580.\n\nBotero's life took a major turn at this time, when he was commissioned by Bishop Carlo Borromeo of Milan as a personal assistant. Borromeo introduced Botero to the practical side of Church administration, often socializing with the nobility of northern Italy, most notably Charles Emmanuel I, Duke of Savoy. When the Bishop died in 1584, Botero continued his service to the family as assistant to Carlo Borromeo's nephew, Federico. \n\nBefore his work with Federico began, however, Botero took part in a diplomatic mission to France on behalf of Charles Emmanuel. For most of 1585, Botero was in Paris, discussing affairs of the day, and perhaps overhearing the conspiratorial debate on whether the pope would grant license for the French Duke of Guise, assisted by the Duke of Savoy and Philip II of Spain, to kill the French King, so they could then launch a massive offensive against the French and Swiss Calvinists. The license was never granted, and the offensive was postponed and made more modest, but this conspiracy tells of what kind of political debate was being had, and just what kind of trouble there was in 1580s France.\n\nBy the late 1580s, Botero had already published a few works, most notably an epic-style poem dedicated to Henry III of France in 1573 and a Latin commentary on Hebrew Scriptures titled \"On Kingly Wisdom\" in 1583, but his most important works were yet to come. In 1588, Botero first published his \"Delle cause della grandezza delle città\" (On the Causes of the Greatness of Cities). Foreshadowing the work of Thomas Malthus, here Botero outlines the generative and nutritive virtues of a city, the former being the rate of human reproduction, and the latter being the ability of the products of the city and its countryside to maintain the people. Cities grow when their nutritive virtue is greater than the generative, but at the inevitable point when these virtues are inverted, the city begins to die.\n\nIn 1589, Botero completed his most famous work, \"Della ragion di Stato\" (The Reason of State). In this work, Botero argues that a prince's power must be based on some form of consent of his subjects, and princes must make every effort to win the people's affection and admiration. This differed from Machiavelli's philosophy in that it is not sufficient to seem like a just prince, for one's true nature will always shine through; one must actually be a just prince by the advice Botero lays out.\n\nBotero's idea of \"justness\" came from his exposure to Thomist thought and natural law circulating the Jesuit college system, which had been greatly influenced by the work of Dominican theologians Francisco de Vitoria and Domingo de Soto of the School of Salamanca. Thomas Aquinas had argued that God infused each individual with certain natural rights, and by the use of reason, human beings could come together to create just societies. Politically, Aquinas imagined that the people would decide on a suitable king, and invest him with certain powers to protect them and allow their prosperity. If the king turned tyrant, Aquinas argued, the people were within their natural rights to depose him. This was in direct opposition to the ideas on the God-given absolute sovereignty of kings that were being proffered by Protestant theologians in the early sixteenth century, and by political thinkers like the French jurist Jean Bodin at the end of the century. \n\nIndeed, Jean Bodin's influential Six Books of a Republic was an important influence on Botero's writing of the \"Reason of State\", even if, as with Machiavelli's Prince, much of that influence was negative. While Botero disagrees with Bodin's thought on sovereignty, preferring something more popularly based, he does agree with some of Bodin's economic ideas. Nonetheless, Botero's overall conception of political economy is again more 'liberal' than that of Bodin, who argued for active participation by kings in the economy of the country, including mercantilist policies that would be enacted wholeheartedly in seventeenth century France by Louis XIV and Colbert. Bodin cautioned kings only against trading with their own subjects; all other economic activity was allowed. Botero, on the other hand, argued that there were only three cases where the prince could take part in trade: 1) if no private citizen could afford it, 2) if a single private citizen would grow too powerful by the profits of it, or 3) there were some shortfall in supply whereby the prince would have to aid in the distribution of goods. Ultimately, Botero argued that economic activity was unbecoming a prince, and that the people were to be the prime economic mover in the state.\n\nThrough the 1590s, Botero continued in the employ of Federico Borromeo, who would become Archbishop of Milan in 1595. Botero mixed in the high society of Rome and Milan in these years, and published another work for which he was to become quite well known, the Relazioni Universali. Released in four volumes between 1591 and 1598 (a fifth volume was finally published in the late nineteenth century), the 'relations' of the title referred to those of the 'universal' (Catholic) church in various parts of the world, a treatise on \"The Strength of all the Powers of Europe and Asia\", and even includes the Americas. The work marks the beginning of demographic studies.\n\nFinishing his employment with Federico Borromeo in 1599, Botero returned to the House of Savoy, to be tutor to three sons of Charles Emmanuel. He would tour Spain with his three charges from 1603 to 1607, no doubt associating with the closest of Philip III's advisors, from whom his ideas would be passed on to Philip IV's most trusted policy-maker, the Count-Duke of Olivares. \n\nHere is where Botero's work began to have an influence. Olivares seems to have used Botero's \"Reason of State\" to outline the strategy for preserving the Spanish Empire in his famous Memorial on the Union of Arms. There is also evidence that Duke Maximilian of Bavaria, one of the staunchest political supporters of Catholic reform and a leading figure of the Thirty Years' War, had discussed the \"Reason of State\" with his advisors. Thus, Botero's thought was able to shape at least some of the policy among the European states of the very troubled seventeenth century.\n\nBotero's work would also influence the next generation of political and economic thinkers. Thomas Mun's liberal mercantilist treatise England's Treasure by Foreign Trade, written in 1624, but not published until 1664, owes something to the \"Reason of State\", and there is evidence that the great Belgian thinker Justus Lipsius read the \"Reason of State\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818954", "title": "STM-1", "text": "STM-1\n\nThe STM-1 (Synchronous Transport Module level-1) is the SDH ITU-T fiber optic network transmission standard. It has a bit rate of 155.52 Mbit/s. Higher levels go up by a factor of 4 at a time: the other currently supported levels are STM-4, STM-16, STM-64 and STM-256. Above STM-256 wavelength-division multiplexing (WDM) is commonly used in submarine cabling.\n\nThe STM-1 frame is on the basic transmission format for SDH (Synchronous Digital Hierarchy). A STM-1 frame has a byte-oriented structure with 9 rows and 270 columns of bytes, for a total of 2,430 bytes (9 rows * 270 columns = 2430 bytes). Each byte corresponds to a 64kbit/s channel.\n\nTOH: Transport Overhead ( + + )\nVC4: Virtual Container-4 payload ( + )\n\nThe STM-1 base frame is structured with the following characteristics:\n\n\nThe Regenerator Section OverHead uses the first three rows & nine columns in the STM-1 frame\n\nX = Bytes reserved for national use.\n\nThe Multiplex Section OverHead uses the 5th through 9th rows, and first 9 columns in the STM-1 frame.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818955", "title": "Proto-Sinaitic script", "text": "Proto-Sinaitic script\n\nProto-Sinaitic, also referred to as Sinaitic, and Proto-Canaanite (when found in Canaan), is a Middle Bronze Age (Middle Kingdom) script attested in a small corpus of inscriptions found at Serabit el-Khadim in the Sinai Peninsula, Egypt, considered the earliest trace of alphabetic writing, and the common ancestor of the Ancient South Arabian script and Phoenician alphabet (and by extension, every other subsequent alphabet).\n\nThe earliest \"Proto-Sinaitic\" inscriptions are mostly dated to between the mid-19th (early date) and the mid-16th (late date) century BC.\n\"The principal debate is between an early date, around 1850 BC, and a late date, around 1550 BC. The choice of one or the other date decides whether it is proto-Sinaitic or proto-Canaanite, and by extension locates the invention of the alphabet in Egypt or Canaan respectively.\" However the discovery of the Wadi El-Hol inscriptions near the Nile River shows that the script originated in Egypt. The evolution of \"Proto-Sinaitic\" and the various \"Proto-Canaanite\" scripts during the Bronze Age is based on rather scant epigraphic evidence; it is only with the Bronze Age collapse and the rise of new Semitic kingdoms in the Levant that \"Proto-Canaanite\" is clearly attested (Byblos inscriptions 10th – 8th century BC, Khirbet Qeiyafa inscription c. 10th century BC).\n\nThe \"Proto-Sinaitic inscriptions\" were discovered in the winter of 1904–1905 in Sinai by Hilda and Flinders Petrie.\nTo this may be added a number of short \"Proto-Canaanite\" inscriptions found in Canaan and dated to between the 17th and 15th centuries BC, and more recently, the discovery in 1999 of the \"Wadi El-Hol inscriptions\", found in Middle Egypt by John and Deborah Darnell. The Wadi El-Hol inscriptions strongly suggest a date of development of Proto-Sinaitic writing from the mid-19th to 18th centuries BC.\n\nIn the winter of 1905, Sir William Matthew Flinders Petrie and his wife Hilda Petrie (née Urlin) were conducting a series of archeological excavations in the Sinai Peninsula. During a dig at Serabit el-Khadim, an extremely lucrative turquoise mine used during between the Twelfth and Thirteenth Dynasty and again between the Eighteenth and mid-Twentieth Dynasty, Sir Petrie discovered a series of inscriptions at the site's massive invocative temple to Hathor, as well as some fragmentary inscriptions in the mines themselves. Petrie immediately recognized hieroglyphic characters in the inscriptions, but upon closer inspection realized the language was wholly alphabetic and not the combination of logograms and syllabics as Egyptian language proper. He thus assumed that the script showed a language that the turquoise miners had devised themselves, using linear signs that they had borrowed from hieroglyphics. He published his findings in London the following year. \n\nTen years later, in 1916, Alan Gardiner, one of the premier Egyptologists of the early and mid-20th century, published his own interpretation of Petrie's findings, arguing that the glyphs appeared to be early versions of the signs used in later Semitic languages such as Phoenician, and was able to assign sound values and reconstructed names to some of the letters by assuming they represented what would later become the common Semitic abjad (one example provided being the character , which Gardiner assigned the ⟨b⟩ sound to, on the grounds that it derived from the Egyptian glyph for 'house' , and was very similar to the similarly-shaped Phoenician character, , which is called \"bet\". The name \"bet\" itself was commonly thought to derive from the \"Semitic\" word for 'house', \"bayt\", providing another layer of support to his thesis.) Using this hypothesis, Gardiner was able to affirm Petrie's hypothesis that the mystery inscriptions were of a religious nature, as his model allowed an often recurring word to be reconstructed as \"lbʿlt\", meaning \"to Ba'alat\" or more accurately, \"to (the) Lady\" — that is, the \"lady\" Hathor. Likewise, this allowed another recurring word \"mʿh<nowiki>b</nowiki>ʿlt\" to be translated as \"Beloved of (the) Lady\", a reading which became very acceptable after the lemma was found carved underneath a hieroglyphic inscription which read \"Beloved of Hathor, Lady of Turquoise\". Gardiner's hypothesis allowed researchers to connect the letters of the inscriptions to modern Semitic alphabets, and resulted in the inscriptions becoming much more readable, leading to his hypothesis' immediate acceptance. \n\nThe Sinai inscriptions are best known from carved graffiti and votive texts from a mountain in the Sinai called Serabit el-Khadim and its temple to the Egyptian goddess Hathor (\"). The mountain contained turquoise mines which were visited by repeated expeditions over 800 years. Many of the workers and officials were from the Nile Delta, and included large numbers of Canaanites (i.e. speakers of an early form of Northwest Semitic ancestral to the Canaanite languages of the Late Bronze Age) who had been allowed to settle the eastern Delta.\n\nMost of the forty or so inscriptions have been found among much more numerous hieratic and hieroglyphic inscriptions, scratched on rocks near and in the turquoise mines and along the roads leading to the temple.\n\nThe date of the inscriptions is mostly placed in the 17th or 16th century BC.\n\nFour inscriptions have been found in the temple, on two small human statues and on either side of a small stone sphinx. They are crudely done, suggesting that the workers who made them were illiterate apart from this script.\n\nIn 1916, Alan Gardiner, using sound values derived from the alphabet hypothesis, translated a collection of signs as לבעלת ' (to the Lady)\n\nOnly a few inscriptions have been found in Canaan itself, dated to between the 17th and 15th centuries BC. Researchers also claim to have discovered Canaanite snake spells: The passages date from between 2400 to 3000 BC and appear to be written in Proto Sinatic, a direct ancestor of Biblical Hebrew.\n\nThe Wadi el-Hol inscriptions ( \"Wādī al-Hawl\" 'Ravine of Terror') were carved on the stone sides of an ancient high-desert military and trade road linking Thebes and Abydos, in the heart of literate Egypt. They have been dated to somewhere between 1900 and 1800 BC. They are in a wadi in the Qena bend of the Nile, at approx. , among dozens of hieratic and hieroglyphic inscriptions.\n\nThe inscriptions are graphically very similar to the Serabit inscriptions, but show a greater hieroglyphic influence, such as a glyph for a man that was apparently not read alphabetically: The first of these (\"h\") is a figure of celebration [Gardiner A28], whereas the second (\"h\") is either that of a child [Gardiner A17] or of dancing [Gardiner A32]. If the latter, \"h\" and \"h\" may be graphic variants (such as two hieroglyphs both used to write the Canaanite word \"hillul\" \"jubilation\") rather than different consonants.\nSome scholars (Darnell \"et al.\") think that the רב \"rb\" at the beginning of Inscription 1 is likely \"rebbe\" (chief; cognate with \"rabbi\"); and that the אל \"ʾl\" at the end of Inscription 2 is likely \"ʾel\" \"god\".\nBrian Colless has published a translation of the text, in which some of the signs are treated as logograms (representing a whole word, not just a single consonant) or rebuses [Antiguo Oriente 8 (2010) 91]\n[V] \"Excellent (\"r\"[\"ʾš\"]) banquet (\"mšt\") of the celebration (\"h\"[\"illul\"]) of ʿAnat\nfor the celebration (\"h\"[\"illul\"]). We will sacrifice (\"ngṯ\") to her (\"h\") an ox (\"ʾ\") and\n(\"p\") a prime (\"r[ʾš]\") fatling (\"mX\").\"\nThis interpretation fits into the pattern in some of the surrounding Egyptian inscriptions, with celebrations for the goddess Hathor involving inebriation.\n\nProto-Canaanite, also referred to as Proto-Canaan, Old Canaanite, or Canaanite, is the name given to the Proto-Sinaitic script (c. 16th century BC), when found in Canaan.\n\nThe term Proto-Canaanite is also used when referring to the ancestor of the Phoenician or Paleo-Hebrew script, respectively, before some cut-off date, typically 1050 BC, with an undefined affinity to Proto-Sinaitic. \nWhile no extant inscription in the Phoenician alphabet is older than c. 1050 BC, \"Proto-Canaanite\" is a term used for the early alphabets as used during the 13th and 12th centuries BC in Phoenicia. However, the Phoenician, Hebrew, and other Canaanite dialects were largely indistinguishable before the 11th century BC. A possible example of \"Proto-Canaanite\", the inscription on the Ophel pithos, was found in 2012 on a pottery storage jar during the excavations of the south wall of the Temple Mount by Israeli archaeologist Eilat Mazar in Jerusalem. Inscribed on the pot are some big letters about an inch high, of which only five are complete, and traces of perhaps three additional letters written in Proto-Canaanite script.\n\nThe letters of the earliest script used for Semitic languages have been shown to be derived from Egyptian hieroglyphs. In the 19th century, the theory of Egyptian origin competed alongside other theories that the Phoenician script developed from Akkadian cuneiform, Cretan hieroglyphs, the Cypriot syllabary, and Anatolian hieroglyphs. Then the Proto-Sinaitic inscriptions were studied by Alan Gardiner who identified the word \"\" \"Lady\" occurring several times in inscriptions, and also attempted to decipher other words. William Albright in the 1950s and 1960s published interpretations of Proto-Sinaitic as the key to show the derivation of the Canaanite alphabet from hieratic, leading to the commonly accepted belief that the language of the inscriptions was Semitic and that the script had a hieratic prototype.\n\nThe Proto-Sinaitic inscriptions, along with the contemporary parallels found in Canaan and Wadi el-Hol, are thus hypothesized to show an intermediate step between Egyptian Hieratic and the Phoenician alphabet. \n\nAccording to the \"alphabet theory\", the early Semitic proto-alphabet reflected in the Proto-Sinaitic inscriptions would have given rise to both the Ancient South Arabian script and the Proto-Canaanite alphabet by the time of the Late Bronze Age collapse (1200–1150 BCE). Albright hypothesized that only the graphic form of the Proto-Sinaitic characters derive from Egyptian hieroglyphs, because they were given the sound value of the first consonant of the Semitic translation of the hieroglyph (many hieroglyphs had already been used acrophonically in Egyptian).\n\nFor example, the hieroglyph for \"pr\" \"house\" (a rectangle partially open along one side, \"O1\" in Gardiner's sign list) was adopted to write Semitic , after the first consonant of \"baytu\", the Semitic word for \"house\".\nAccording to the alphabet hypothesis, the shapes of the letters would have evolved from Proto-Sinaitic forms into Phoenician forms, but most of the names of the letters would have remained the same.\n\nAn alternative hypothesis was recently proposed by Brian Colless (2014), who believes that 18 of the 22 letters of the Phoenician alphabet have counterparts in the Byblos syllabary, and it seems that the proto-alphabet evolved as a simplification of the syllabary, moving from syllabic to consonantal writing, in the style of the Egyptian script (which did not normally indicate vowels); this goes against the Goldwasser hypothesis (2010) that the original alphabet was invented by miners in Sinai.\n\nBelow is a table synoptically showing selected Proto-Sinaitic signs and the proposed correspondences with Phoenician letters. Also shown are the sound values, names, and descendants of the Phoenician letters.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818960", "title": "Gar-Field Senior High School", "text": "Gar-Field Senior High School\n\nGar-Field Senior High School is a senior high school in Woodbridge in unincorporated Prince William County, Virginia, USA, with students in grades 9 through 12. Established in 1953, it was originally located at 15941 Cardinal Drive until the current school opened in 1972 on 14000 Smoketown Road.\n\nIt has recently been one of the largest high schools in Virginia, with enrollment peaking at over 3,000.\n\nThe high school's motto is \"The School of Champions\" and they have been rivals with Woodbridge High School for many years.\n\nThe name Gar-Field is derived from two prominent local families, the Garbers and the Manderfields, who donated the land for the original school just off of U.S. Highway #1. The comic strip \"Ber-Mander,\" which appears on the back page of the school newspaper, utilizes the unused portions of these names. Ber-Mander was created by artist Chris Sprouse (a 1984 graduate of Gar-Field) in the early 1980s, and featured a \"hippie\" title character.\n\nIn the 1950s, Gar-Field was segregated, as were Virginia's other schools. However, in 1962, African-American students were enrolled without incident.\n\nGar-Field is one of two high schools in Prince William County that offer the International Baccalaureate (IB) Diploma Program and the IB Middle Years Program (). It also has the only accredited daycare system of any high school in the state, with a program that allows student-parents to finish their education while learning about how to take care of their children.\n\nGar-Field is of similar design to that of nearby Woodbridge High School, which was also built in the mid-1970s.\n\nIn May 2007, \"Newsweek Magazine\" ranked Gar-Field 564th in the nation on its annual list of \"Best High Schools in America.\"\n\nIn June 2007, then-principal Roger Dallek announced his retirement after over 20 years at Gar-Field. He was succeeded by Dr. Brenda L. Aiken in the 2007–2008 school year. Dr. Aiken was a former resident of New York state and served for over 20 years with the Fairfax County school system. Dr. Brenda L. Aiken died of cancer at 53 years old on Saturday May 16, 2009. Former principal Roger Dallek returned to fill the position for the remainder of the 2008–2009 school year.\n\nUpon the start of the 2009–2010 school year, William Bixby took the position of principal until his promotion at the end of the 2013 school year. Dr. Cherif Sadki, a former vice principal, took over as principal for the 2013–2014 school year. In January 2019, Dr. Sadki announced his resignation and former principal Roger Dallek returned yet again to fill the position on an interim basis.\n\nGar-Field graduates between 500 and 700 students every June, and since 2002 all graduations have taken place at the Patriot Center at nearby George Mason University in order to accommodate the large crowds. The class of 2000 was the first graduating class to have the ceremony at George Mason University.\n\nGar-field High School's robotics team started in 2006, and that same year the team won the Virginia FTC Championship and attended the World Championships in Atlanta. The following season G-F placed second in the Virginia Championship, and in the 2008–2009 season the Varsity team, Team 33, Leviathan, went to Dallas, Texas for the VEX World Championship. They placed within the top 50 out of about 250 teams from all over the world.\n\nDuring the Robotics season of 2009–2010, the Varsity Team 33, Maverick, placed 12th in Robot Skills at the 2009-2010 VEX Robotics World Championships in Dallas, TX. They also placed within the top half of their division.\n\nIn the 2010–2011 season, the Gar-Field Robotics team was represented in the Prince William County Zero Robotics Team, SuperNOVA. This team, consisting of students from Osbourn Park, Gar-Field, and Battlefield HS, placed in the Top 5 (Semi-Finalist Standings) and ended up in 3rd place in the nation (Finals). Varsity FTC Team 33, Maverick was a member of the VA FIRST FTC State Championship alliance and attended the 2011 VEX World Championships at the ESPN Wide World of Sports Center in FL.\nThe team is also responsible for reaching out to the community and to provide mentorship to the surrounding middle schools in need of help and support, such as Beville Middle School and Woodbridge Middle School. The team also actively volunteers by running Qualifiers and the annual Roboticon for the middle school students. G-F Robotics members have also appeared in various functions in the community, such as the Annual Community Covenant in Manassas and National Young Readers' Day.\n\n\nIn the 2017–2018 school year, Gar-Field's student body was:\n\nSAT average: 971 (verbal - 489, math - 482)\n\nACT average: 20.8 composite\n\nPSAT average: 136\n\nInternational Baccalaureate Diploma Pass Rate: 86% (exceeds Virginia, US, and world averages)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818961", "title": "Actua Sports", "text": "Actua Sports\n\nActua Sports is a sports video game series published by Gremlin Interactive which competed with Electronic Arts EA Sports label during the second half of the 1990s, until Gremlin was acquired by Infogrames. The term \"Actua\" is a (seemingly marketing-related) play on Sega's line of \"Virtua\" titled games, which included \"Virtua Fighter\", \"Virtua Racing\" and \"Virtua Striker\".\n\nThe first game in the series was the 1995 milestone title, \"Actua Soccer\", which quickly became one of the most important titles for the company. It was later joined by the rebirth of the \"Premier Manager\" franchise and the club version of \"Actua Soccer\". In 1996, the first non-football game was released, \"Actua Golf\", followed by the sequels \"Actua Soccer 2\" in 1997, now endorsed by English international Alan Shearer and \"Premier Manager 98\". The third installment in the \"Actua Soccer\" series and the \"Ninety-Nine\" edition of \"Premier Manager\" followed in 1998, the year a new title debuted in the series: \"Actua Ice Hockey\", the official video game of the Nagano Olympic Games ice hockey tournament, followed by \"Actua Tennis\" in the same year.\n\nWhile the series died shortly after Gremlin was acquired by Infogrames, some of the games had further titles developed: \"PGA European Tour Golf\" and \"UEFA Challenge\", both developed by the now Sheffield House, were published in 1999 and 2002 respectively, and the rights of the \"Premier Manager\" franchise were acquired by Zoo Digital Publishing.\n\nThe first title's biggest claim to fame was its full 3D graphics engine, used for the first time in a home console football game (the first full-3D football game being Sega arcade \"Virtua Striker\"); although other console games had used a 3D field, players were commonly still 2D sprites but in \"Actua Soccer\" players were polygonal. The game was developed with close ties to a local football club Sheffield Wednesday: their players provided hints to the programmers, and three players, Chris Woods, Graham Hyde and Andy Sinton, also served as motion capture models.\n\n\"Actua Soccer\" featured only national teams, with squads of 22 players from each of 44 national sides, However a follow up version with English Premier League teams named \"Actua Soccer: Club Edition\" was released in 1997 using 20 players from the 20 Premier League teams from 1996/97. The Actua Soccer match engine was also used to display matches in Premier Manager 64.\n\nThe first game was a bestseller in the UK, where it was backed by what journalists called \"the most expensive advertising campaign ever mounted for a console game.\" Tommy Glide of \"GamePro\", while criticising the game's lack of flashy special moves and mild sound effects, deemed it the most well-rounded PlayStation soccer game to date, saying it offered a good combination of FIFA's deep strategy and \"Goal Storm\"s sharp visuals and accessibility.\n\n\"Actua Golf\" (known as \"VR Golf '97\" in North America) is a sports video game developed by Gremlin Interactive for the PlayStation and Sega Saturn. It was released in 1996.\n\n\"Actua Soccer 2\" (known as \"Fox Sports Soccer '99\" in North America), once again included national teams, but a more polished engine (optimised in the PC version for 3D graphics cards), (in some versions) the full Italian Serie A league, and a new \"scenario\" mode assured good sales and mostly positive reviews. It also included a team creator mode, which enabled the player to make up to 128 custom teams. Barry Davies was joined by Trevor Brooking on the commentary, and the game featured England football team captain and striker Alan Shearer not only on the cover, but also providing interviews about the game in the press. Michael Owen and Simon Tracey provided motion capture for the players. The game also featured menu music and a cameo appearance from Welsh rockers, Super Furry Animals, which could only can be unlocked after entering a cheat code. \"Actua Soccer 2\" was also bundled with Creative Technology's \"Voodoo 2\" graphic cards, which helped to achieve widespread distribution and popularity.\n\n\"Actua Golf 2\" (known as \"Fox Sports Golf '99\" in North America), also developed by Gremlin Interactive for the PlayStation and Microsoft Windows, was released in 1998. \"Actua Golf 2\" received mixed reviews. Aggregating review website \"GameRankings\" gave the PC version 70.50% and the PlayStation version 38.75%.\n\n\"Actua Ice Hockey\" was developed by Gremlin Interactive for the PlayStation and Windows in 1998 and was the official video game for the Nagano Winter Olympics 1998 ice hockey tournament.\n\n\"Actua Tennis\" was developed by Gremlin and released on PlayStation in 1998 and Windows PC in 1999. A Saturn version was also announced, but never released. The game featured players which were motion captured from real tennis players and commentary by Sue Barker and Barry Davies.\n\n\"Actua Soccer 3\" arrived in late 1998. For the first time, both club and national teams were present, plus other teams (such as Arsenal LFC) and various joke teams. While its predecessor had been criticised for the absence of club teams, \"Actua Soccer 3\" featured a total of 25 leagues with 450 national and international teams, more than any game of the time except the earlier \"Sensible World of Soccer\" as well as over 10000 players. The graphics used a slightly improved version of the \"Actua Soccer 2\" engine with much improved weather effects. Trevor Brooking was replaced by Martin O'Neill as Barry Davies' commentary partner. \"Let Me Entertain You\" by Robbie Williams was the only ingame soundtrack, while the classical operatic theme Cavalleria Rusticana (\"Rustic Chivalry\") by Pietro Mascagni was played during the game's introduction video.\n\nA port for the Nintendo 64 was planned but canceled after six months in development due to poor sales of the game \"Body Harvest\" for the platform.\n\n\"Pool Shark\" was developed by Gremlin for PlayStation and Windows in 1999. The game was also released under the name \"Actua Pool\". A sequel was developed in Europe in 2004 for the PlayStation 2 and Windows under the name \"Pool Shark 2\" by Blade Interactive It was not a part of the \"Actua\" series as the series had ended years prior, and Gremlin had closed. In 2007, a port of \"Actua Pool\" was released for the Nintendo DS, named \"Underground Pool\" in North America.\n\n\"Actua Ice Hockey 2\" was developed by Gremlin Interactive for the PlayStation and Windows in 1999. It was originally intended to be Fox Sports Hockey and was being developed by Gremlin for Fox Interactive, who had obtained an NHL license. Just over half way through development, Fox pulled out taking the NHL license with it. Above the objections of some of the developers, development of the game continued. All references to NHL were changed to GHL ( Gremlin Hockey League ), all player names were modified by substituting vowels (Svoboda became Svaboda, for instance), player faces were randomized and a whole new front-end was developed.\n\n\"Actua Golf 3\" was developed by Gremlin Interactive and released on the PlayStation in 1999. The game received an average score of 70.50% at GameRankings, based on an aggregate of 2 reviews.\n"}
{"id": "1818963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818963", "title": "In the Flesh?", "text": "In the Flesh?\n\n\"In the Flesh?\" and \"In the Flesh\" are two songs by the English rock band Pink Floyd, released on their 1979 album, \"The Wall\". \"In the Flesh?\" is the opening track, and introduces the story concept of the album. \"In the Flesh\" is the twenty-first song of the album, and is a reprise of the first, with different verses and more extended instrumentation.\n\nThe title is a reference to the band's 1977 In the Flesh Tour, during which Roger Waters, in frustration, spat at a fan attempting to climb the fence separating the band from the crowd.\n\nThe majority of the songs are in the key of A Major and its time signature is 6/8. The arrangement is highly dynamic and dramatic. The first few seconds of the first song (\"In the Flesh?\") are very quiet, and feature the melody of the song \"Outside the Wall\", which is the album's closing track. The recording begins abruptly as a man quietly speaks the phrase \"...we came in?\" completing the sentence cut off at the end of the end of the album as the man says \"Isn't this where...\" This demonstrates a cyclical nature to the concept of the album, much in the way that \"The Dark Side of the Moon\" opens and closes with the sound of a heartbeat.\n\nThe quiet melody of \"Outside the Wall\" is interrupted in mid-phrase, as the main body of the song starts loudly, with a succession of power chords on organ and distorted guitars. A low-pitched melody begins, at a slow pace, with rapid snare drum fills. This introduction is the first occasion where the album's leitmotif is heard, with a pattern of D-E-F-E in the guitars. The introduction lasts for more than a minute before the singing starts, and the tone shifts to gentle keyboards and male doo-wop harmony in the background. Following the lyrics, the loud guitar melody returns. During this outro, Roger Waters shouts out stage directions, and a Stuka dive-bomber can be heard. The final sound of the first track is that of a baby crying.\n\nThe reprise (\"In the Flesh\") begins the same explosive organ sequence heard in the first song. Following this, the song then moves into a slightly quieter choir chorus, before the lyrical section. The end of the song features another organ sequence, and the song fades out to the chanting of \"Pink! Floyd! Pink! Floyd!\".\n\nWaters has said that the main chord sequence and melody was not initially part of \"The Wall\", but was borrowed from \"The Pros and Cons of Hitch Hiking\", which Waters wrote at the same time as \"The Wall\", but recorded as a solo release.\n\n\"In the Flesh?\" introduces the story of Pink, a rock star. It begins with the opening of a rock concert. The lyrics inform us that despite his outward appearances, things are much different \"behind these cold eyes\" and that if the listener wants to know what's really going on with Pink, you'll \"just have to claw your way through this disguise.\" The song also subtly indicates that Pink's father is killed in a war, with the sound effect of the dive-bomber. Finally, we hear a baby crying, indicating that Pink and his mother are left without a father and husband, respectively (this is expanded upon two songs later, in \"Another Brick in the Wall, Part 1\").\n\nLater in the album, the reprise marks the first of a series of songs in which Pink, in a drug-induced hallucination, believes himself to be a fascist dictator, crowing over his faithful audience; this particular song is his hallucination that his concerts can be likened to a political rally. He begins exhorting his fans to show their devotion to him by throwing undesirables such as \"queers\", Jews, and \"coons\", \"up against the wall\". He punctuates the end of the song with \"If I had my way I'd have all of you shot!\". The incited crowd then chant Pink's name as the song segues into \"Run Like Hell\".\n\nDuring the original tour supporting \"The Wall\", the song would be performed onstage by the backing musicians wearing masks to make them look like the real members of Pink Floyd, playing on the lines \"Tell me, is something eluding you sunshine? Is this not what you expected to see? You'll just have to claw your way through this disguise\", as well as the references to a \"surrogate band\" in the song's reprise later on.\n\nIn Waters' 2010–13 tour, \"The Wall Live\", he performs the song himself, in the guise of the megalomaniacal dictator that his character Pink becomes at the climax of the show.\n\nThe beginning of the film shows Pink sitting in a locked hotel room. A housekeeper knocks repeatedly, then uses her keys to let herself in. While this happens, Pink's mind is flashing back to a concert, in which a massive crowd of eager concertgoers manage to break down a chained door to the concert venue, and rush inside, trampling each other in the process. The film shows quick cuts of rioting fans and a violent police response, interspersed with scenes of soldiers being bombed in the fields of war. A German Ju 87 Stuka bombs a bunker, in which Pink's father is killed.\n\nThe song is performed by Pink (Bob Geldof) in his dictator garb, with the set decorated like a Nazi rally, an insignia of two crossed hammers replacing the swastika. Geldof recorded his own vocals over the original Pink Floyd music track, replacing Waters' vocals.\n\nThe film version also uses a mix in which the song's intro was longer, with the E minor power chord riff, and a short David Gilmour solo, repeating twice. This was edited out of the record due to time constraints, but the song has been performed full length in most live performances.\n\nLater in the movie the reprise is used in a similar way as in the album, picking up shortly after Pink's transformation into the Dictator. The song is one of the most radically changed among movie versions, having been converted to an orchestral piece. The Dictator questions the loyalty of the fans, while setting his dogs against the \"queers\" and \"coons\" he singles out. As the song ends, the crowd's chant of \"Pink Floyd!\" is replaced with \"Hammer\", invoking the film motif of hammers. In addition, both Pink and the crowd display the \"Hammer\" salute, arms crossed in front of the chest at the wrists like a pair of crossed hammers. In addition, the \"Crossed Hammer\" logo can be seen everywhere. The song immediately segues into \"Run Like Hell\".\n\nPersonnel per Fitch and Mehon.\n\n\nwith:\n\n\n\nwith:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818966", "title": "Barry Chant", "text": "Barry Chant\n\nBarry Mostyn Chant (born 1938) is the author of \"Heart of Fire: The story of Australian Pentecostalism\" (the first history of Australian pentecostalism) and founder and founding principal of Tabor College Australia. He was founding editor of \"Australia's New Day\" magazine, the first national magazine addressing Australian pentecostals, charismatics and evangelicals.\n\nHe married Vanessa in 1960 and has three children 12 grandchildren and two great grandchildren.\n\nChant graduated from the University of Adelaide in 1960 with a Bachelor of Arts degree, with honours in English literature. He started his career in 1960 as a secondary school teacher at Murray Bridge High School in South Australia, where he taught until 1963.\n\nChant was ordained as a minister of the Christian Revival Crusade (now CRC Churches International) in 1962. He became pastor of the Port Adelaide CRC assembly from 1964 to 1975 and an associate pastor of the Adelaide Crusade Centre from 1975 to 1978.\n\nAppointed dean of the Crusade Bible College in 1964, Chant continued this role until 1977 when he became principal of the college. In 1979 he led the redevelopment of the college into Tabor College, a multidenominational charismatic tertiary institution. He was president of the college until 2003. He also founded Tabor College Sydney in 1992, being its principal until 2002.\n\nChant was the founding editor of \"Australia's New Day\" magazine in 1980. It was the first national magazine addressing Australian pentecostals, charismatics and evangelicals. He remained president of the magazine until it ceased operations in 1997. He was also a Sunday night talkback radio host on 5DN in Adelaide, South Australia, from 1983 to 1986 and chairman of the United Charismatic Conventions in South Australia from 1980 to 1991.\n\nIn 2000, Chant received a PhD in history from Macquarie University, his thesis being \"The spirit of Pentecost\".\n\nFrom 2003 to 2010, Chant was the senior pastor of the International Congregation at Wesley Mission, Sydney.\n\nHe is now semi-retired.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818978", "title": "Roberta Vinci", "text": "Roberta Vinci\n\nRoberta Vinci (; born 18 February 1983) is a retired Italian tennis player. Until 6 April 2015, she held the position of world No. 1 in doubles, and reached a career-high of No. 7 in singles in May 2016. She is the fourth Italian woman to have reached the top 10 in singles, having attained the rank after Flavia Pennetta, Francesca Schiavone and Sara Errani. At 33 years and 4 days old, she became the oldest player ever to make her first appearance in the top 10.\n\nShe rose to worldwide prominence at the 2015 US Open, when she reached the semifinals and defeated world No. 1, Serena Williams, in three sets, ending Williams's hopes of winning the calendar Grand Slam, in what has been described by numerous commentators as one of the biggest shocks in tennis history. She went on to lose to her childhood friend Flavia Pennetta in the first all-Italian Grand Slam final.\n\nVinci won 35 WTA Tour titles, 10 in singles and 25 in doubles, including the 2012 French Open, the 2012 US Open, the 2013 Australian Open and 2014 Australian Open, and 2014 Wimbledon titles with regular partner Sara Errani. In doing so, they became only the fifth pair in tennis history to complete a career Grand Slam.\n\nThe first of her ten singles titles came in the 2007 Copa Colsanitas, over Tathiana Garbin. She won her second title at the 2009 Barcelona Ladies Open, over Maria Kirilenko. Her third title was at the 2010 BGL Luxembourg Open, over Julia Görges. Her fourth title was for her second victory after 2009 at the 2011 Barcelona Ladies Open, over Lucie Hradecká. Her fifth title was her first win on grass at the 2011 UNICEF Open, over Jelena Dokić. Her third victory in 2011 and sixth title was in Budapest over Irina-Camelia Begu; her seventh came in 2012, at Dallas, over former world No. 1, Jelena Janković. In 2013, she defeated her doubles partner Errani at Palermo and Petra Kvitová for her eighth title at the 2013 BNP Paribas Katowice Open. Her biggest title came in 2016, when she won the Premier-event in St. Petersburg, defeating Belinda Bencic in the final.\n\nShe and her Italian teammates Mara Santangelo, Flavia Pennetta, and Francesca Schiavone beat the Belgian team 3–2 in the 2006 Fed Cup final. Justine Henin-Hardenne had to retire in the fifth and final match due to an injury in her right knee, which allowed Italy to win its first Fed Cup trophy. With the Italian team, she also won the Fed Cup in 2009 and 2010 against the USA.\n\nAt the 2012 US Open Vinci reached her first Grand Slam quarterfinal, at 29 years of age, by defeating then-world No. 2, Agnieszka Radwańska, in the fourth round. She lost to her doubles partner, world No. 10, Sara Errani, in the quarterfinals. Vinci achieved the same feat the following year when she defeated Camila Giorgi in the fourth round, but subsequently lost to Flavia Pennetta. Vinci was one of only three players in the WTA top 100 using a one-handed backhand.\n\nRoberta Vinci was born in Taranto, the daughter of Angelo Vinci, an accountant, and his wife Luisa, a homemaker; she has an elder brother, Francesco. Vinci was introduced to tennis at the age of six. She currently resides in Palermo.\n\nVinci made her professional debut at an ITF tournament in Italy in 1999. Vinci also won the French Open in girls' doubles with fellow Italian Flavia Pennetta that same year. She qualified for her first Grand Slam at the 2001 US Open, but lost to Martina Suchá in the first round.\n\nOne of the biggest victories of her career came in 2005 was when she beat former world No. 2 and 2004 French Open champion, Anastasia Myskina, in the quarterfinals at the Hastings Direct International Championships in Eastbourne. Alongside Sandrine Testud, Vinci reached the semifinals in women's doubles of the 2004 French Open. In 2007 at Bogotá, Vinci won her first WTA title against the top seed Tathiana Garbin, also of Italy, in three sets, after falling behind 0–3 in the final set. She won the title for Garbin had to retire.\n\nVinci qualified for the Brisbane International and defeated Anna-Lena Grönefeld in the first round, before losing to top seed Ana Ivanovic in the second. She then fell to fellow Italian Corinna Dentoni in the qualifications for Moorilla Hobart International. Vinci lost to eventual quarterfinalist Carla Suárez Navarro in the first round of the Australian Open. Vinci also played for Italy in the Fed Cup World Group stage versus France. Italy won 5–0.\n\nAt her first clay-court event, Abierto Mexicano Telcel in Acapulco, Vinci defeated sixth seed Lucie Šafářová in the first round, and then fell to Ágnes Szávay of Hungary. Vinci then lost in the second rounds of both the Monterrey Open (defeated by Iveta Benešová) and the Paribas Open in Indian Wells (defeated by Sybille Bammer), and fell in the qualifications for Miami Sony Ericsson Open to Anastasia Rodionova. Vinci then fell to eventual champion and former world No. 1, Jelena Janković, in the quarterfinals of the Andalucía Tennis Experience in Marbella. At the Barcelona Ladies Open, Vinci earned her second career title, defeating Pauline Parmentier in the first round, Flavia Pennetta in the second, Anastasiya Yakimova in the quarterfinals, Francesca Schiavone in the semifinals, and defending champion Maria Kirilenko in the final.\n\nVinci reached the second round of the Grand Prix SAR La Princesse Lalla Meryem held in Fes. After she defeated Mariana Duque Marino in the first round, she lost to qualifier Polona Hercog in the second. At the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Vinci lost in the first round to Kateryna Bondarenko. She then beat María José Martínez Sánchez in the first round of the Mutua Madrileña Madrid Open, and then was beaten by Vera Dushevina in the second. She lost to ninth seed Victoria Azarenka in the first round at Roland Garros.\n\nDuring the grass court season, Vinci reached the third round at Birmingham. She lost to Yanina Wickmayer in straight sets. The following week at s'Hertogenbosch, she lost her opening match to Daniela Hantuchová. At Wimbledon, Vinci beat No. 31, Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova, in the second round to set up a third-round matchup with No. 2, Serena Williams, and lost. At the US Open, Vinci lost in the first round to Jelena Janković.\n\nVinci lost in the third round of the Australian Open to Maria Kirilenko. She reached the third round of both Indian Wells and Miami, losing to Yanina Wickmayer and Venus Williams respectively. She reached the final at Barcelona but failed to defend her title, losing to fellow Italian Francesca Schiavone.\n\nAt the Roland Garros, Vinci lost in the second round to Flavia Pennetta. She fell to Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in the second round of Wimbledon.\n\nShe lost her opening match at the US Open to Venus Williams. She qualified for the Toray Pan Pacific Open but lost to Vera Zvonareva in the third round. Vinci also qualified for the China Open but lost to Vera Dushevina in the second round. Vinci lost to eventual champion Ana Ivanovic in the Generali Ladies Linz semifinals, 3–6, 5–7. She won her third WTA title in Luxembourg against Julia Görges, 6–3, 6–4 in the final.\n\nVinci reached the quarterfinals of Hobart losing to sixth seed Jarmila Gajdošová. She lost in the first round of the Australian Open to Alicia Molik. She reached the semifinals of Pattaya City, after defeating second seed Ana Ivanovic in the quarterfinals but then lost to Sara Errani. The rest of her year continued with dismal results with only one win and six losses over the course of six events from Dubai to Stuttgart.\n\nShe then entered the Barcelona Ladies Open, where she was the sixth seed. She ended up winning the tournament without having to beat a seed, or a player inside the top 50. She beat Lucie Hradecká in the final, 4–6, 6–2, 6–2. This was her second time winning this tournament and her third clay-court title. She then entered the Madrid tournament, where she reached the third round before losing to Li Na, 6–2, 2–6, 1–6, the first time she had ever won a set against her. She lost in the third round of the French Open to Victoria Azarenka, 3–6, 2–6.\n\nHer next major success came at the UNICEF Open where she was the seventh seed. After wins over third seed Yanina Wickmayer and fifth seed Dominika Cibulková in the quarterfinals and semifinals respectively, she beat Jelena Dokić in the final. This was her second title of 2011 and her first title on grass. As the 29th seed at the Wimbledon Championships she reached the third round where she lost to eighth seed and eventual champion Petra Kvitová, 3–6, 3–6.\n\nHer first post Wimbledon event was at Budapest where she was the top seed. She beat third seed Klára Zakopalová and then seventh seed Irina-Cameilia Begu in the final, 6–4, 1–6, 6–4. This was her third tour title of the season.\n\nShe began her American hard court swing in Carlsbad as the 9th seed. She was upset in the second round by Zheng Jie. Vinci scored the biggest win of her career in Toronto, beating defending champion and world No. 1, Caroline Wozniacki, 6–4, 7–5, in the second round of the Canadian Open. In the second set, Vinci rallied from 1–5 down and saved multiple set points, before going on to win the match. In the third round, she defeated former world No. 1, Ana Ivanovic, 7–6, 6–2. She lost in the quarterfinals to 10th seed Sam Stosur, 4–6, 1–6.\n\nAs the 18th seed, at the US Open, Vinci made it to the third round. In the first round, she defeated Irina-Camelia Begu, 6–3, 6–4. She then defeated Alizé Cornet, 6–2, 6–3. In the third round, she was sent home by Andrea Petkovic, 6–4, 6–0. Despite losing in the third round, this was Vinci's best performance so far in the US Open.\n\nShe qualified for the Tournament of Champions and was seeded fourth, but lost to eventual champion Ana Ivanovic, 3–6, 3–6 in the quarterfinals.\n\nStarting the year at the ASB Classic, she was seeded sixth and defeated Rebecca Marino in the first round before falling 3–6, 4–6 to unseeded Elena Vesnina in the second round. Roberta then suffered early round losses at the Apia International Sydney and the Australian Open to Daniela Hantuchová and Zheng Jie respectively.\n\nHer next tournament came at the Open GdF Suez where she was seeded seventh. She defeated Simona Halep 6–4, 6–4, then Bethanie Mattek-Sands 6–3, 1–6, 6–3, before falling to eventual finalist Marion Bartoli in a third-set tiebreaker in the quarterfinals. Vinci then traveled to Mexico where she participated in her next two tournaments, the Monterrey Open and the Abierto Mexicano Telcel. Seeded first in both events, she was upset by Nina Bratchikova in the second round of Monterrey, before bowing out to eventual champion Sara Errani in the semifinals at Acapulco.\n\nRoberta then travelled to the BNP Paribas Open. Seeded 23rd, she beat Silvia Soler Espinosa and 20th-seeded Dominika Cibulková before falling to second-seeded Maria Sharapova, 3–6, 6–4, 3–6. She returned to the top 20 following her fourth round appearance. She then bowed out to 10th seeded Serena Williams in the third round of the Sony Ericsson Open. She next participated at the Barcelona Ladies Open where she was the defending champ but lost in the second round to Simona Halep. Ironically, the tournament champion was Sara Errani, her doubles partner. Vinci and Errani managed to win the doubles title of the Barcelona Ladies Open by beating Francesca Schiavone and Flavia Pennetta in an all-Italian final, with the score of 6–2, 6–0.\n\nShe then entered the Estoril Open as the No. 1 seed. She made it to the semifinals before losing to eventual champion Kaia Kanepi. Her next tournament was Madrid, where she was unseeded and defeated the 14th seed Dominika Cibulková in the first round and lost in the round of 16 to Agniezska Radwańska. She then entered the French Open as the 17th seed and lost in the first round to Sofia Arvidsson.\n\nHer first event after the French Open was the Aegon Classic, where she was the No. 4 seed. She reached the quarterfinals before losing to Zheng Jie. She then was the No. 6 seed at the UNICEF Open, where she was the defending champion. She lost in the quarterfinals to Kirsten Flipkens 4–6, 6–7. She then competed in the Wimbledon Championships as the 21st seed. She defeated Ashleigh Barty, Marina Erakovic and Mirjana Lučić to reach the round of 16. This was the first time she had ever reached the second week of a major. She ended up losing her fourth round match to Tamira Paszek 2–6, 2–6.\n\nVinci also won six doubles titles with the fellow Italian Sara Errani including the Madrid Open, the Italian Open and the French Open in 2012. She and Errani also made the finals of the Sony Ericsson Open and the Australian Open in that year.\n\nVinci lost her opening match at the London Olympics to Kim Clijsters, 1–6, 4–6.\n\nAt the Canadian Open in Montreal, Vinci defeated Yanina Wickmayer 6–2, 3–6, 7–5, after coming back from a 1–5 and match point deficit in the third set. In the second round she crushed 11th seed, Ana Ivanovic, 6–0, 6–0 in 45 minutes. After she defeated the 6th seed Angelique Kerber with the result of 6–2, 7–6, but she was beaten in the quarterfinals by the Czech Lucie Šafářová in straight sets. Two weeks later Vinci defeated Jelena Janković 7–5, 6–3 to win her seventh WTA title at the Texas Tennis Open without losing a set in the entire tournament.\n\nAt the US Open, Vinci started her journey by defeating Urszula Radwańska, 6–1, 6–1, and followed that victory up with a second round victory over Yaroslava Shvedova. In the third round, she defeated the 13th seed, Dominika Cibulková. In the fourth round, she defeated Agnieszka Radwańska in straight sets to advance to her first Grand Slam quarterfinal. She lost in the quarterfinals to her doubles partner Errani, 6–2, 6–4.\n\nVinci partnered Errani for the US Open. They were seeded No. 2, behind the defending champions Liezel Huber and Lisa Raymond. Errani and Vinci reached the final, defeating Czechs Andrea Hlaváčková and Lucie Hradecká for the title.\n\nFollowing the US Open, Vinci travelled to Asia for the Pan Pacific Open. She made it to the third round where she lost to top seed Victoria Azarenka. At Beijing, she lost her opener to qualifier Lourdes Domínguez Lino. As a result of her doubles success alongside Sara Errani, they qualified for the WTA Tour Championships for the first time. However, they lost to Russians Nadia Petrova and Maria Kirilenko in the semifinals. Vinci once again qualified for the Tournament of Champions. In the round robin stage, she recorded wins over Hsieh Su-wei and Daniela Hantuchová and had a loss to Caroline Wozniacki. She advanced to the semifinals where she lost to second seed and eventual champion Petrova. Vinci ended 2012 in top 20 for the first time at No. 16 and No. 1 in for the first time also doubles ahead of her partner Errani.\n\nVinci began 2013 by losing her opening match to Jarmila Gajdošová at Brisbane. She reached the quarterfinals at Sydney where she lost to eventual champion Agnieszka Radwańska. At the Australian Open where she was seeded 16th, she lost to Elena Vesnina in the third round. She partnered Sara Errani and won the doubles event.\n\nShe was seeded fifth at the Open GdF Suez but lost to German Mona Barthel in the second round. Vinci lost to Urszula Radwańska in the second round at Qatar Open. Then, at Dubai she defeated Svetlana Kuznetsova, Samantha Stosur and Angelique Kerber en-route to the semifinals. She eventually succumbed to doubles partner Errani in straight sets.\n\nVinci lost in the third round at the BNP Paribas Open to Lara Arruabarrena. She improved her performance at Miami, reaching the quarterfinals. There, she lost to 22nd seed Jelena Janković. Vinci won her eighth WTA title when defeated top-seeded Petra Kvitová, 7–6, 6–1, to win the Katowice Open in Poland.\n\nRoberta began her clay court season by losing her opening matches at Stuttgart and Madrid. She reached the third round at Rome, but lost to Simona Halep. Vinci lost to Serena Williams in the fourth round at the French Open.\n\nShe was the top seed at the Topshelf Open but lost to Halep again in the second round. She reached the fourth round at Wimbledon but lost to Li Na. After that, Vinci competed at Internazionali di Palermo and won her 9th title by defeating doubles partner Sara Errani in the final. Vinci lost to Ana Ivanovic in the quarterfinals at the Southern California Open at Carlsbad.\n\nAt the Canadian Open, she lost to Dominika Cibulková in the third round. Then, Vinci lost to Jelena Janković in the quarterfinals of the Western and Southern Open. Had she won this match, she would've entered the top 10 singles rankings for the first time in her career. At the US Open, Vinci reached her second Grand Slam quarterfinal, this time she lost to Flavia Pennetta.\n\nDuring the Asian swing, she lost to Lucie Šafářová in the second round at the Pan Pacific Open after receiving a first round bye. At Beijing, she lost in the third round to Angelique Kerber. Her next tournament was at the Kremlin Cup. She lost to Svetlana Kuznetsova in the quarterfinals. Vinci and Errani once again qualified for the Tour Championships but lost in the semifinals again to a Russian pair, Ekaterina Makarova and Elena Vesnina. Vinci ended the year at No. 14 in singles, her highest ever and No. 1 in doubles for the third straight season.\n\nVinci began the season at the ASB Classic as the top seed. She fell in the first round to rising star Ana Konjuh in three sets. Then at the Apia International Sydney, she lost to doubles partner Sara Errani in the first round. At the Australian Open, Vinci was the 12th seed but fell in the first round to Zheng Jie. In the doubles event, she partnered Errani and won the title, defeating Russian pair Makarova and Vesnina.\n\nThen, she competed at the Open GdF Suez but lost in the first round again to Elina Svitolina. Her bad form continued with first round losses at Doha and Dubai to Tsvetana Pironkova and Sorana Cîrstea respectively. Vinci received a first bye at the BNP Paribas Open and defeated American Madison Keys in her opening match for her first victory of 2014. However, she lost to Casey Dellacqua in the following round. She once again lost her opening match at the Sony Open Tennis to Barbora Záhlavová-Strýcová in straight sets after having a first-round bye.\n\nVinci failed to defend her title at the Katowice Open. She beat qualifier Ksenia Pervak in round one but lost to Camila Giorgi the following round. Vinci faced Petra Kvitová during Italy's semifinal Fed Cup tie against Czech team but lost in straight sets.\n\nShe began her clay court season at Stuttgart. She beat Annika Beck in the first round, but lost to Agnieszka Radwańska in straight sets. In the doubles event, Vinci and Errani were the champions, overcoming Cara Black and Sania Mirza in the final. Vinci reached her first quarterfinal of the year at the Portugal Open. She defeated Alexandra Cadanțu and Yanina Wickmayer en route. She then lost to Elena Vesnina. At the Madrid Open, she won her opening match against Daniela Hantuchová and went on to defeat Caroline Wozniacki in the second round. She lost to Radwańska again in the third round. Playing on home soil at the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Vinci lost in the first round to Ekaterina Makarova. She was seeded 20th at the French Open but lost to Pauline Parmentier in the first round. Vinci and Errani lost in the doubles final to world number ones Peng Shuai and Hsieh Su-wei.\n\nShe then competed at Eastbourne, but lost to Daniela Hantuchová this time in the first round. Her disastrous run continued at Wimbledon when she lost to Donna Vekić in the first round. However, she made history in the doubles event when she and Errani won defeating Hungarian-French pair Tímea Babos and Kristina Mladenovic in the final, completing a career Grand Slam in doubles.\n\nVinci posted good results the following month. She was the second seed at the Bucharest Open. She defeated Alexandra Dulgheru and Silvia Soler Espinosa for a place in the quarterfinals. She then reached her first semifinal of 2014 with a victory over seventh seed Petra Cetkovská. She then easily defeated Kristína Kučová and reached the final where she was defeated in straight sets by top seed and home favourite Simona Halep. Vinci is next competed at Istanbul where she was the second seed, she defeated Anna Tatishvili in the first round. In the second round, she faced Dulgheru again and advanced to the quarterfinals when Dulgheru retired because of a shoulder injury. Vinci faced Kurumi Nara in the quarterfinals and won in straight sets. In the semifinals, she faced rising star Ana Konjuh, setting up a rematch of their opener in Auckland, Vinci won this time, defeating her in straight sets. In her second consecutive final, Vinci lost to the top seed again, Caroline Wozniacki.\n\nIn August, Vinci lost in the first round at Montreal and Cincinnati to Barbora Záhlavová-Strýcová and Sabine Lisicki respectively. Vinci and Errani won their fifth doubles title of the year together in the doubles event at Montreal. They defeated Cara Black and Sania Mirza in the final. At the US Open, Vinci won her first Grand Slam singles match of 2014 by defeating Paula Ormaechea in the first round followed by a three-set win over Irina-Camelia Begu. She then lost to eventual semifinalist Peng Shuai in the third round. Vinci fell out of the top 40 as a result.\n\nDuring the Asian swing, Vinci suffered another upset at the Guangzhou International Open where she was seeded sixth. She lost to Zhu Lin in the first round. Then at Wuhan, she fell to Casey Dellacqua in the first round. Vinci found her good form at the China Open, defeating Yaroslava Shvedova and upsetting world No. 6, Agnieszka Radwańska, in the early rounds. Her run continued with another upset of Ekaterina Makarova in the third round. She booked her place in the quarterfinals where she faced Petra Kvitová. She lost to the Czech in straight sets. At the Luxembourg Open, Vinci the sixth seed easily defeated Tereza Smitková in the first round but then lost to Beck in straight sets. Vinci and Errani once again qualified for the WTA Finals as the top seeds. They were forced to retire in their first hurdle to Květa Peschke and Katarina Srebotnik due to an injury suffered by Errani. Vinci ended the season outside the top 40 for the first time since 2010 at No. 49.\n\nVinci kicked off her 2015 season by playing at the ASB Classic. She lost in the first round to seventh seed CoCo Vandeweghe, 7–5, 2–6, 3–6. The following week, she played at the Hobart International. Seeded ninth, Vinci made it to her first quarterfinals of the year defeating wild-card Olivia Rogowska and Annika Beck. In the quarterfinals, she fell to eventual champion Heather Watson 7–6, 6–2. At the Australian Open, Vinci overcame Bojana Jovanovski to reach round two but lost to 10th seed Ekaterina Makarova, 2–6, 4–6.\n\nSeeded third at the Rio Open, Vinci was upset in the second round by qualifier Verónica Cepede Royg, 6–2, 6–3. She then retired in her first-round match against Kiki Bertens at the Abierto Mexicano Telcel with a shoulder injury. Vinci exited the second round at the BNP Paribas Open to 24th seed Sabine Lisicki, 6–1, 5–7, 6–4. The following week at the Miami Open, she dropped her opening match against qualifier Tatjana Maria, 6–7, 3–6. During the week, it was also announced that Vinci and her long-term doubles partner Sara Errani decided to discontinue playing doubles together. They issued a joint statement stating that they had decided to pursue more in their singles career.\n\nBeginning her clay-court season seeded sixth at the Grand Prix SAR La Princesse Lalla Meryem, Vinci lost to fellow Italian Karin Knapp in the second round, 7–6, 2–6, 2–6. She then posted good results at the Madrid Open. She reached the fourth round for the second year in a row beating Monica Puig and Alizé Cornet. She ended up losing in the fourth round to 13th seed Lucie Šafářová, 4–6, 7–6, 0–6. Ranked 44 at the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Vinci was defeated in the first round by world No. 41, Heather Watson, 6–3, 6–1. Seeded fourth at the Nürnberger Versicherungscup, she reached her first final of the season but came up short in the final losing to sixth seed and compatriot Karin Knapp in three sets. Ranked 38 at the French Open, Vinci lost in the first round to 29th seed Alizé Cornet 6–4, 4–6, 1–6.\n\nVinci began her grass-court season at the Aegon Classic. She was defeated in the first round by qualifier Tímea Babos, 6–2, 6–7, 7–6. At the Aegon International, she lost in the first round to Caroline Garcia, 2–6, 2–6. Ranked 35 at Wimbledon, Vinci lost in the first round to Aleksandra Krunić, 2–6, 4–6.\n\nAfter Wimbledon, Vinci competed at the Bucharest Open where she was the second seed and last year's finalist. She lost in the second round to Aleksandra Krunić, 1–6, 1–6. Last year finalist at the İstanbul Cup, Vinci reached the quarterfinals beating seventh seed Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova and qualifier Alexandra Panova. Vinci then lost in the quarterfinals to Magdaléna Rybáriková, 6–0, 5–7, 2–6.\n\nVinci then reached her second quarterfinal at the Canadian Open by defeating Karin Knapp, qualifier Mirjana Lučić-Baroni, and Daria Gavrilova all in straight sets. She then succumbed to world No. 1, Serena Williams, in the quarterfinals 4–6, 3–6. She then lost to Anastasia Pavlyuchenkova in the first round at the Western & Southern Open, 3–6, 6–0, 2–6. Vinci qualified for the main draw at the Connecticut Open and easily defeated Eugenie Bouchard in the first round, 6–1, 6–0. She then was defeated in the second round by third seed Caroline Wozniacki, 6–4, 6–7, 7–6.\n\nRanked 43 at the US Open, Vinci won her first three rounds defeating Vania King, Denisa Allertová, and Mariana Duque Mariño. Vinci then reached her third US Open quarterfinal in four years after Eugenie Bouchard withdrew a few hours before their fourth-round match after she slipped and hit her head in the locker room. In the quarterfinals, Vinci defeated Kristina Mladenovic 6–3, 5–7, 6–4 to reach the semifinals. At 32, Vinci became the oldest first-time Grand Slam semifinalist in the Open Era. She then dispatched defending champion Serena Williams in three sets en-route to her first Grand Slam final, while also ending Williams' attempt at a calendar-year Grand Slam. Vinci was ranked 42 places lower than Williams at that time. Numerous major media outlets reported about Vinci's win over Williams being one of the biggest upsets in tennis history. She lost to Flavia Pennetta in the final in straight sets in what was the first all-Italian Grand Slam final in the Open Era. By virtue of her run to the final in New York, Vinci returned to the top 20 for the first time since June 2014.\n\nSeeded 15th at the Wuhan Open, Vinci defeated qualifier Danka Kovinić and Irina-Camelia Begu in the first two rounds. In the third round, she stunned third seed and defending champion, Petra Kvitová, 7–6, 6–2. She then defeated eighth seed Karolína Plíšková, 7–6, 6–3 to advance to the semifinals. In the semifinals, Vinci lost to eventual champion Venus Williams 7–5, 2–6, 6–7. In this match, Vinci had a 6-5 lead in the third set and even had one match point before Venus came back and won the match. Seeded 15th at the China Open, Vinci lost in the third round to qualifier Bethanie Mattek-Sands, 1–6, 6–3, 2–6. Seeded third at the Generali Ladies Linz, she was defeated in the first round by qualifier Aleksandra Krunić, 6–1, 6–7, 6–1. Vinci's final tournament of the year was the first edition of the WTA Elite Trophy. Seeded fourth, Vinci beat 11th seed Svetlana Kuznetsova in her first rubber, 6–4, 6–4. In her second rubber, she lost to Alternate Anna Karolína Schmiedlová 1–6, 0–6. Having a 1-1 record in Group D, Vinci reached the semifinals losing to top-seed and eventual champion Venus Williams 2–6, 2–6.\n\nVinci ended the year ranked 15.\n\nVinci started her season at the Brisbane International. Seeded eighth, she started the tournament by defeating Jelena Janković in the first round, 3–6, 6–2, 6–4. She then dominated Dominika Cibulková in their second round match 6–1, 6–1. In the quarterfinals, she lost to former world No. 1, two-time Australian Open champion, and eventual champion, Victoria Azarenka, 1–6, 2–6. After Brisbane, she competed at Sydney where she lost in the first round to Samantha Stosur. As the 13th seed at the Australian Open, Vinci reached the third round after beating qualifier Tamira Paszek and world No. 74, Irina Falconi. In the third round, she suffered a shock loss to world No. 82, Anna-Lena Friedsam, 6–0, 4–6, 4–6.\n\nAfter the Australian Open, Vinci played at the inaugural St. Petersburg Ladies' Trophy. Seeded second, she reached the final defeating Yanina Wickmayer, Tímea Babos, and fourth seed Ana Ivanovic. In the final, Vinci beat top seed Belinda Bencic, 6–4, 6–3. This was Vinci's tenth career WTA singles title, her first since 2013, and her first Premier-level title. Seeded seventh at the Dubai Tennis Championships, Vinci lost in the first round to qualifier Yaroslava Shvedova, 0–6, 6–4, 3–6. Despite losing in the first round to Shvedova, Vinci rose to a career-high ranking of 10 as neither Lucie Šafářová nor Venus Williams defended their ranking points from the previous year, she became the oldest female tennis player to make her top-10 singles debut, four days after her 33rd birthday. Seeded 9th at the Qatar Total Open, Vinci defeated Lesia Tsurenko, Daria Kasatkina, and wildcard Çağla Büyükakçay to reach the quarterfinals. There, she lost to 3rd seed Agnieszka Radwańska, 6–3, 2–6, 3–6. As the top seed at the Malaysian Open, Vinci suffered a shock loss in the first round to world No. 153, Chang Kai-chen, 7–5, 2–6, 1–6. As the ninth seed at the BNP Paribas Open, Vinci received a bye into the second round and faced Margarita Gasparyan. Vinci came through in a three-set thriller, 6–3, 6–7, 7–6. Vinci had to save two match points in order to defeat Gasparyan in the second round. She then won comfortably against 17th seed Elina Svitolina in the third round 6–1, 6–3. In the fourth round, she was forced to retire trailing 2–6, 0–2 to Magdaléna Rybáriková. Seeded ninth at the Miami Open, Vinci received a bye into the second round where she beat Lucie Hradecká, 1–6, 6–4, 7–6. In the third round, Vinci was defeated by 22nd seed Madison Keys, 6–4, 6–4. At the 2016 Fed Cup World Group Play-offs, Vinci represented Italy in their tie against Spain. Vinci lost both of her rubbers to Carla Suárez Navarro and Garbiñe Muguruza. Spain defeated Italy 4-0.\n\nVinci began her clay court season at the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix. Seeded sixth, Vinci reached the quarterfinals beating Ekaterina Makarova and German wildcard Julia Görges. In the quarterfinals, she lost to German qualifier and eventual finalist Laura Siegemund 1–6, 4–6. Seeded 7th at the Mutua Madrid Open, Vinci lost in the first round to world No. 52, Danka Kovinić, 4–6, 2–6. Seeded seventh and given a first-round bye at the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, Vinci was defeated in the second round by world No. 23, Johanna Konta, 6–0, 6–4. Vinci's final tournament before the French Open was the Nürnberger Versicherungscup. As the top seed, she lost in the second round to qualifier and eventual champion, Kiki Bertens, 4–6, 6–7. Seeded seventh at the French Open, Vinci was upset in the first round by world No. 65, Kateryna Bondarenko, 6–1, 6–3.\n\nVinci played only one grass-court warm-up tournament before Wimbledon. Seeded second at the Aegon International Eastbourne, she lost in the second round to Ekaterina Makarova 6–4, 4–6, 3–6. Seeded sixth at Wimbledon, Vinci reached the third round defeating Alison Riske and lucky loser Duan Yingying. She lost then to 27th seed CoCo Vandeweghe in straight sets.\n\nVinci started her US Open Series at the Canadian Open. Seeded seventh, she lost in the third round to world No. 33, Daria Kasatkina, 5–7, 3–6. Representing Italy at the Rio Olympics, Vinci was defeated in the first round by Anna Karolína Schmiedlová, 7–5, 6–4. Seeded sixth at the Western & Southern Open, Vinci was defeated in the third round by ninth seed Carla Suárez Navarro, 6–1, 7–5. Seeded second at the Connecticut Open, Vinci lost in the quarterfinals to qualifier Johanna Larsson 6–7, 1–6. Vinci was seeded seventh at the US Open, where she has finalist points to defend from last year. She reached the quarterfinals for the fourth time in five years, defeating Anna-Lena Friedsam, Christina McHale, Carina Witthöft, and Lesia Tsurenko. Vinci then lost in the quarterfinals to second seed and eventual champion Angelique Kerber, 5–7, 0–6. As a result, Vinci failed to defend her finalist points from last year, so she fell from the top 10.\n\nSeeded 13th at the Wuhan Open, Vinci was defeated in the second round by Yaroslava Shvedova, 7–5, 6–2. Seeded 13th at the China Open, she lost in the second round to Caroline Wozniacki, 3–6, 2–6. Vinci's final tournament of the year was the WTA Elite Trophy in Zhuhai. Seeded fifth, Vinci lost her first match to 9th seed Barbora Strýcová, 4–6, 3–6. In her final match, Vinci was defeated by third seed and eventual champion Petra Kvitová, 6–1, 6–2. In November, Vinci was contemplating retirement from Tennis due to her poor results and tiredness. However, on 21 November 2016, Vinci decided to play at least one more year.\n\nVinci ended the year ranked 18.\n\nVinci began the season at the Brisbane International. Seeded eighth, she started the tournament off by beating lucky loser Kateryna Bondarenko in the first round, 7–6, 6–7, 7–6. She then defeated Misaki Doi in the second round 6–4, 6–2. In the quarterfinals, Vinci lost to third seed and eventual champion Karolína Plíšková, 6–3, 2–6, 2–6. Next, Vinci played at the Apia International Sydney. Seeded ninth, she was defeated in the second round by Barbora Strýcová, 6–2, 6–3. As the 15th seed at the Australian Open, Vinci lost in the first round to world No. 35 and eventual semifinalist, CoCo Vandeweghe, 1–6, 6–7.\n\nAfter the Australian Open, Vinci went to compete at the St. Petersburg Ladies' Trophy, where she was the sixth seed and the defending champion. She started off the tournament by beating Tímea Babos in the first round, 6–3, 3–6, 6–4 before she defeated qualifier Andrea Petkovic, 6–4, 6–4. In the quarterfinals, Vinci was defeated by eventual champion Kristina Mladenovic, 6–1, 6–4. Due to losing in the quarterfinals, Vinci failed to defend her title. At the Qatar Total Open, Vinci lost in the first round to qualifier Lauren Davis, 2–6, 3–6. Seeded 16th at the Dubai Tennis Championships, Vinci was upset in the first round by world No. 55, Kristýna Plíšková, 3–6, 7–5, 6–3. Vinci had a 6–3, 5–4 lead and was serving for the match before Plíšková made a comeback to win the match. Seeded 26th at the BNP Paribas Open, Vinci received a first round bye. She lost in the third round to eighth seed Svetlana Kuznetsova, 2–6, 6–2, 1–6. Seeded 25th at the Miami Open, Vinci was stunned in the second round by qualifier Taylor Townsend, 6–3, 6–2. After Miami, Vinci played at the first edition of the Ladies Open Biel Bienne. As the fourth seed, she was upset in the first round by world No. 58, Kristýna Plíšková, 6–4, 6–4.\n\nVinci began her clay-court season at the Porsche Tennis Grand Prix. In the first round, Vinci lost to newly returned Maria Sharapova, 5–7, 3–6. Vinci had her first win since Indian Wells at the Madrid Open by defeating Daria Kasatkina in the first round, 6–1, 1–6, 6–1. In the second round, she lost to 3rd seed and eventual champion Simona Halep, 3–6, 6–2, 6–7. Vinci led 3–6, 6–2, 5–2 before Halep came back to win the match. At the Internazionali BNL d'Italia, she lost in the first round to Ekaterina Makarova, 2–6, 1–6. As the 31st seed at the French Open, Vinci was defeated in the first round by the previous year's Olympic gold medalist Monica Puig, 6–3, 3–6, 6–2.\n\nVinci played one grass-court warm-up tournament to prepare herself for Wimbledon. As the sixth seed at the Mallorca Open, she beat lucky loser and compatriot Sara Errani in the first round 6–2, 6–1. In the second round, she defeated qualifier Kirsten Flipkens, 6–4, 5–7, 6–2, to reach the quarterfinals for the first time at this tournament. In the quarterfinals, Vinci was defeated by third seed and defending champion, Caroline Garcia, 6–2, 7–6. Seeded 31st at the Wimbledon Championships, Vinci lost in the first round to Kristýna Plíšková, 6–7, 2–6.\n\nHaving announced her plans to retire after the Italian Open, Vinci continued to play sporadically through the early part of the season. She faced Aleksandra Krunić in the opening round of the Italian Open, but lost the final match of her career in a keenly contested three set match. She said of her retirement: \"I'm crying now but I'm happy, I'm happy for what I've accomplished\".\n\nVinci is known for her doubles prowess, her ability at the net, and relentless use of the backhand slice, although she regrets switching her backhand grip to one-handed at the age of 18. Vinci has also been praised for her excellent movement and her sense of the court. Due to her backhand slice, powerful forehand and excellent court covering, her game is often compared to Steffi Graf.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818980", "title": "Danburite", "text": "Danburite\n\nDanburite is a calcium boron silicate mineral with a chemical formula of CaB(SiO).\n\nIt has a Mohs hardness of 7 to 7.5 and a specific gravity of 3.0. The mineral has an orthorhombic crystal form. It is usually colourless, like quartz, but can also be either pale yellow or yellowish-brown. It typically occurs in contact metamorphic rocks.\n\nThe Dana classification of minerals categorizes danburite as a sorosilicate, while the Strunz classification scheme lists it as a tectosilicate; its structure can be interpreted as either.\n\nIts crystal symmetry and form are similar to topaz; however, topaz is a calcium fluorine bearing nesosilicate. The clarity, resilience, and strong dispersion of danburite make it valuable as cut stones for jewelry.\n\nIt is named for Danbury, Connecticut, United States, where it was first discovered in 1839 by Charles Upham Shephard.\n"}
{"id": "1818982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818982", "title": "Totnes (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Totnes (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTotnes is a Parliamentary constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since December 2019 by Conservative Anthony Mangnall. Mangnall defeated incumbent Dr Sarah Wollaston who had originally been elected as a Conservative but defected to the Liberal Democrats earlier that year. \n\nThe current constituency was formed for the 1997 general election, from parts of the former South Hams constituency. This had, in 1983, largely replaced the previous Totnes constituency, which had existed in a wide form since 1885, but in a much narrower form from the Model Parliament.\n\nAn original parliamentary borough of Totnes or Totness had been created in 1295. It returned two MPs to the House of Commons of England until 1707, then to the House of Commons of Great Britain until 1800, and finally to the House of Commons of the United Kingdom from 1801 until it was abolished under the Representation of the People Act 1867 with effect from the 1868 election.\n\nThe modern constituency has returned Conservatives in general elections since its 1997 recreation, which suggests a safe seat, though it came close to falling to the Liberal Democrats in 1997. Its Conservative MP since 2010, Dr. Sarah Wollaston, defected to the Liberal Democrats in 2019, after a brief spell as an independent, and prior to that as a member of Change UK, a new party formed from MPs formerly Conservative or Labour, after she became disillusioned with the Conservative Party's position on Brexit. She came second to a new Conservative candidate in 2019.\n\nDuring the 2016 EU Referendum, Totnes is estimated to have narrowly voted to Leave, by 53.9% vs. 46.1% Remain. Although the town of Totnes itself is a Remain stronghold, the rural areas of the constituency voted in favour of Brexit.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Totnes, and the Sessional Divisions of Ermington and Plympton, and Stanborough and Coleridge.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Borough of Totnes, the Urban Districts of Ashburton, Buckfastleigh, Kingsbridge, Newton Abbot, Salcombe, and Teignmouth, the Rural District of Kingsbridge, and parts of the Rural Districts of Newton Abbot and Totnes.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Boroughs of Clifton, Dartmouth, Hardness, and Totnes, the Urban Districts of Ashburton, Buckfastleigh, Kingsbridge, Newton Abbot, and Salcombe, the Rural Districts of Kingsbridge and Newton Abbot, and part of the Rural District of Totnes.\n\n1974–1983: The Municipal Boroughs of Clifton, Dartmouth, Hardness, and Totnes, the Urban Districts of Ashburton, Buckfastleigh, Kingsbridge, Newton Abbot, and Salcombe, and the Rural Districts of Kingsbridge, Newton Abbot, and Totnes.\n\n1997–2010: The District of South Hams wards of Avon and Harbourne, Avonleigh, Dartington, Dartmouth Clifton, Dartmouth Hardness, Dart Valley, Eastmoor, Garabrook, Kingsbridge, Kingswear, Malborough, Marldon, Salcombe, Saltstone, Skerries, South Brent, Stoke Gabriel, Stokenham, Thurlestone, Totnes, Totnes Bridgetown, and West Dart, the Borough of Torbay wards of Blatchcombe, Furzeham with Churston, and St Peter's with St Mary's, and the District of Teignbridge wards of Ambrook, Ashburton, and Buckfastleigh.\n\n2010–present: The District of South Hams wards of Allington and Loddiswell, Avon and Harbourne, Dartington, Dartmouth and Kingswear, Dartmouth Townstal, East Dart, Eastmoor, Kingsbridge East, Kingsbridge North, Marldon, Salcombe and Malborough, Saltstone, Skerries, South Brent, Stokenham, Thurlestone, Totnes Bridgetown, Totnes Town, West Dart, and Westville and Alvington, and the Borough of Torbay wards of Berry Head with Furzeham, Blatchcombe, Churston with Galmpton, and St Mary’s with Summercombe.\n\nThe Totnes constituency covers the eastern part of the South Hams district of Devon, including the towns of Totnes, Dartmouth, Kingsbridge and Salcombe, as well as parts of the unitary authority of Torbay, including the town of Brixham.\n\nThe seat covers the undulating Totnes area in south Devon, which also includes the towns of Brixham, South, and Western Paignton which is in Torbay. Workless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.4% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\"Constituency created 1295\"\n\n\"Two members\"\n\"One member\"\nBetween 1983 and 1997 the constituency was replaced by the South Hams constituency. Anthony Steen was returned at every election.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40:\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected; \n\nOn petition, Pender was unseated on 22 March 1866. No writ was issued to replace him and, in 1868, the seat was disenfranchised and absorbed into South Devon.\n\nBy-election caused by the death of George Hay.\n\nBy-election caused by the death of Thomas Mills.\n\n \n\nBy-election caused by Edward Seymour becoming 12th Duke of Somerset.\n\nSeymour was appointed Commissioner of Woods, Forests, Land Revenues, Works, and Buildings, requiring a by-election.\n\n 587\n\nThe previous by-election was declared void on petition, causing a by-election.\n\n \n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818984", "title": "Birkdale, Queensland", "text": "Birkdale, Queensland\n\nBirkdale is a coastal locality in the City of Redland, Queensland, Australia. In the , Birkdale had a population of 14,497 people.\n\nBirkdale stretches from Tingalpa Creek in the west, the border with Brisbane City, to Wellington Point in the east. Thorneside and Waterloo Bay are to its north, and Capalaba and Alexandra Hills to its south.\n\nBirkdale was named in 1880 by local landowner William Thorne after his birthplace, Birkdale in England.\nBirkdale State School opened on 27 November 1916 with 28 students.\n\nIn the 1920s, poultry was a major industry in Birkdale.\n\nBirkdale South State School opened on 25 January 1982.\n\nIn the , Birkdale recorded a population of 14,497 people, 50.8% female and 49.2% male.\n\nThe median age of the Birkdale population was 39 years, 2 years above the national median of 37.\n\n75.2% of people living in Birkdale were born in Australia. The other top responses for country of birth were England 5.8%, New Zealand 4.9%, South Africa 1.3%, Netherlands 1.2%, Scotland 0.8%.\n\n90% of people spoke only English at home; the next most common languages were 1.1% Dutch, 0.5% German, 0.5% Mandarin, 0.4% Vietnamese, 0.4% Italian.\n\nBirkdale has a humid subtropical climate (Köppen climate classification \"Cfa\") with hot, humid summers and mild winters. From November through March, thunderstorms are common, with the more severe events accompanied by large damaging hail stones, torrential rain and destructive winds.\n\n\nMajor features of Birkdale are a railway station, a canal style housing development known as Aquatic Paradise, a significant shopping precinct located near Aquatic Paradise and a retirement village known as Wellington Manor.\n\nIt is also home to one of the Redlands Waste Transfer Stations (), which (as of July 2012) is provided to the residents of the city free of charge. It encourages residents to recycle such items as green waste, cardboard etc. and helps in the proper disposal of hazardous materials.\n\nBirkdale State School is a government primary (P-6) school for boys and girls at 74 Agnes Street (corner of Birkdale Road). In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 646 students, predominantly drawn from the suburbs of Thorneside and Birkdale, with 43 teachers (39 full-time equivalent) and 20 non-teaching staff (15 full-time equivalent).\n\nBirkdale South State School is a government primary (P-6) school for boys and girls at 451 Old Cleveland Road East. In 2017, the school had an enrolment of 583 students with 44 teachers (37 full-time equivalent) and 19 non-teaching staff (14 full-time equivalent). The school's catchment area has transitioned from small crop farms to residential estates.\n\nBirkdale railway station provides access to regular Queensland Rail City network services to Brisbane and Cleveland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818985", "title": "Thomas Carey (Australian politician)", "text": "Thomas Carey (Australian politician)\n\nThomas Campbell Carey (1832 or 1833 – 4 September 1884) was the surveyor to whom John and Alexander Forrest were apprenticed, and was later a Member of the Western Australian Legislative Council.\n\nThomas Carey was born in Ireland in 1832–33. Little is known of his youth, but he was employed as a draughtsman commanding the Engineer's Office at Chatham, and later in an Ordnance Survey as Land Agent and Surveyor. In September 1853, he married Eliza Shields Stewart.\n\nIn 1862, Carey emigrated to Western Australia, where he became an assistant surveyor for the colony's Survey Department. Over the next eight years, Carey was at various times stationed at Albany, Wellington and Bunbury. In November 1863, while stationed at Bunbury, Carey accepted as his apprentice a young John Forrest. Forrest graduated after two years, entering the Survey Department. In 1869 Carey apprenticed Forrest's younger brother Alex. He also became a Justice of the Peace in that year.\n\nIn May 1871, the new Surveyor-General of Western Australia Malcolm Fraser reorganised the Survey Department, promoting John Forrest and dismissing a number of surveyors including Carey and Alex Forrest. Carey then became a contract surveyor for the department, and also ran a private practice. He also began to get involved in public affairs, becoming a member of both the Bunbury Town Trust and the Bunbury Municipal Town Council in 1871, and Chairman of both later that year. His first wife died in October 1871, and he was remarried in April 1874, to Rose Strickland.\n\nOn 25 June 1872, Carey was elected to the Legislative Council for the seat of Vasse. From 8 July 1873 until 28 October 1874, he was Chairman of Committees. He was defeated in the election of October 1874 by Robert Gale, but won the seat again in a by-election in March 1878, holding it until his death in 1884. In 1874, Carey was an unsuccessful defendant in a libel case. In August 1879, he suggested in Parliament that Forrest had made improper use of crown land, then followed it up by writing a letter to the \"Herald\" listing the land that was held by members of the Forrest family. The accusations generated much discussion, but most members of the Council supported Forrest, and no evidence of any wrongdoing was ever uncovered.\n\nThomas Carey died in Perth on 4 September 1884. He was survived by his second wife, four sons by his first marriage, and four daughters from his second.\n\n"}
{"id": "1818986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818986", "title": "List of people from Birmingham, Alabama", "text": "List of people from Birmingham, Alabama\n\nThis is a list of individuals who are natives of, or are notable in association with, the city of Birmingham, Alabama.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818988", "title": "North Wiltshire (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Wiltshire (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Wiltshire is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by James Gray, a Conservative. In the period 1832–1983, this was an alternative name for Chippenham or the Northern Division of Wiltshire and as Chippenham dates to the original countrywide Parliament, the Model Parliament, this period is covered in more detail in that article. In 2016 it was announced that the North Wiltshire constituency would be scrapped as part of the planned 2018 Constituency Reforms.\n\n1832–1885: The Hundreds of Chippenham, North Damerham, Bradford, Melksham, Potterne and Cannings, Calne, Selkley, Ramsbury, Whorwelsdown, Swanborough, Highworth, Cricklade and Staple, Kingsbridge, and Malmesbury.\n\n1983–1997: The District of North Wiltshire.\n\n1997–2010: The District of North Wiltshire wards of Allington, Ashton Keynes, Audley, Avon, Box, Bremhill, Brinkworth, Colerne, Corsham, Crudwell, Hill Rise, Hilmarton, Kington Langley, Kington St Michael, Lacock, Lyneham, Malmesbury, Malmesbury Road, Minety, Monkton Park, Neston and Gastard, Nettleton, Park, Pickwick, Purton, Queen's, Redland, St Paul Malmesbury Without, Sherston, Somerford, The Lydiards, Town, Westcroft, Wootton Bassett North, and Wootton Bassett South.\n\n2010–present: The District of North Wiltshire wards of Ashton Keynes and Minety, Box, Bremhill, Brinkworth and The Somerfords, Calne Abberd, Calne Chilvester, Calne Lickhill, Calne Marden, Calne Priestley, Calne Quemerford, Calne Without, Colerne, Cricklade, Hilmarton, Kington Langley, Kington St Michael, Lyneham, Malmesbury, Nettleton, Purton, St Paul Malmesbury Without and Sherston, The Lydiards and Broad Town, Wootton Bassett North, and Wootton Bassett South.\n\nThe constituency covers most of the northern third of Wiltshire. However it excludes the eastern town of Swindon which is represented as North Swindon and South Swindon.\n\nNorth Wiltshire constituency was formed by a renaming for the 1983 general election, with boundaries identical to the former Chippenham constituency (1885–1983). The constituency sits between the Cotswolds and Swindon. Its main towns are Calne, Royal Wootton Bassett (a town which was a borough constituency until abolished as a 'rotten borough' in 1832), Cricklade and Malmesbury, and it also contains a number of villages, both small and large, spread over a large area of farming countryside, including the well-known (often-painted and photographed) village of Castle Combe. \nFor the 2010 general election the North Wiltshire constituency changed radically as a result of boundary change recommendations. The constituency now covers a northern swathe of the previous version retaining the towns of Malmesbury, Cricklade, Royal Wootton Bassett and Calne while the largest southern town of Chippenham was given its own seat (which was previously abolished in 1983) that brought in the nearby market towns of Bradford on Avon and Melksham including parts of other seats.\n\nWhile North Wiltshire has a long history of returning Conservative candidates, its district council (created in 1973 and abolished in 2009) was closely contested between the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats with many electoral wards being marginal.\n\n \n\n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1818994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818994", "title": "Elora Cataract Trailway", "text": "Elora Cataract Trailway\n\nThe Elora Cataract Trailway is a 47 km-long recreational rail trail between the towns of Elora and Forks of the Credit, in the south of the province of Ontario, Canada. The former Canadian National Railway line operated from about 1880 until 1988.\n\nElora Cataract Trailway is operated by The Grand River Conservation Authority (GRCA)\n\n"}
{"id": "1818999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1818999", "title": "Maidenhead (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Maidenhead (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nMaidenhead is a constituency in Berkshire represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament. Since its creation at the 1997 General Election, the seat has been held by Conservative Member of Parliament Theresa May who served as Home Secretary from 2010 to 2016 and as Prime Minister from 2016 to 2019.\n\nIt is considered a safe seat for the Conservative Party, as it has never been held by any party other than the Conservatives; nor had any of its predecessor constituencies.\n\nThe constituency was first drawn shortly after the 1992 general election. The electorate of Maidenhead and Windsor was becoming too large, so the Boundary Commission for England separated the seats for the next election, due in 1996 or 1997. It was formed from parts of the abolished safe seat of Windsor and Maidenhead and the constituency of Wokingham. It was first used in the 1997 election. Theresa May, Prime Minister from 2016 to 2019, has held the seat since its creation. In October 1995, May, a former London councillor at the time working at the Association for Payment Clearing Services and as a Foreign affairs advisor, was selected to contest the new seat, defeating her future Chancellor of the Exchequer, Philip Hammond, in the selection process. (Hammond was later selected for the nearby seat of Runnymede and Weybridge.) May won the seat in the 1997 election, in which over 100 Conservatives lost their seats, and the party obtained its lowest share of seats in 91 years. At the 2010 general election May achieved the 9th highest share of the vote of the 307 seats held by a Conservative.\n\nThe closest election in the seat was in 2001, in which May's majority was cut from almost 12,000 votes in 1997 to just 3,284 votes ahead of the Liberal Democrat candidate. The Labour candidate in that election was activist and comedy writer John O'Farrell, whose campaign was the subject of a BBC documentary entitled \"Losing My Maidenhead\".\n\nDue to their strong performance in 2001, the seat was one of several targeted by the Liberal Democrats in 2005 as part of a 'decapitation strategy' to deprive senior Conservatives of their seats; as with similar efforts in Haltemprice and Howden and West Dorset, however, this strategy was unsuccessful: May retained her seat with almost double her 2001 majority. Since then, she has held it with majorities of at least 30%.\n\nHousing is, in the Wokingham district part, at the northern end of a belt where more than 40% of dwellings are detached houses, and less than 10.8% are purpose-built flats or tenements (maisonettes) (2011 figures, by district) Reflecting a national trend in this period, the latter band was in 2001 a band of fewer than 8% of housing stock as flats. The other borough, namely Windsor and Maidenhead, is the district with the most expensive house prices in the country outside of Greater London. The seat is located in the technology-rich M4 corridor, which includes the largest company headquarters estate in Europe at Slough; and though most of the communities have slower links to London than Maidenhead town centre, they instead have close links to Reading and Bracknell. A minority commute to the City of London, which is just under one hour's commute from the two mainline stations. Communities in the area will also benefit from the eventual opening of Crossrail, with trains running direct from Maidenhead and Twyford to the City of London and Stratford. The seat includes the renowned restaurants, the Fat Duck at Bray and the Waterside Inn. There are low hills in the north of the seat and the Chiltern Hills further to the north. Taking the constituent electoral ward results since the decline of the Liberal Party in the 1910s, the area has always been a safe seat for Conservative candidates. One broadsheet political column encapsulated the constituency as a \"seat of Thamesside towns\", these house a majority of its residents other than Twyford which spans the multi-stream river in the town. The agriculture in the area consists of some pasture, fields of wheat and fruit.\n\nThe constituency borders the constituencies of Reading East, Henley, Wycombe, Beaconsfield, Windsor, Bracknell and Wokingham. The seat's largest settlement is the town of Maidenhead in the Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead, Berkshire. It includes the following wards:\n\n1997–2010: The Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead wards of Belmont, Bisham and Cookham, Boyn Hill, Cox Green, Furze Platt, Hurley, Oldfield, Pinkney's Green, and St Mary's (transferred from the abolished constituency of Windsor and Maidenhead); and the District of Wokingham wards of Charvil, Coronation, Hurst, Remenham and Wargrave, Sonning, and Twyford and Ruscombe (transferred from the altered constituency of Wokingham).\n\n2010–present: The Royal Borough of Windsor and Maidenhead wards of Belmont, Bisham and Cookham, Boyn Hill, Bray, Cox Green, Furze Platt, Hurley and Walthams, Maidenhead Riverside, Oldfield, and Pinkney's Green, and the District of Wokingham wards of Charvil, Coronation, Hurst, Remenham, Wargrave and Ruscombe, Sonning, and Twyford.\n\nBray was transferred from Windsor.\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 2019\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2019\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2017\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2017\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2015\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2015\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2010\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2010\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 2005\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2005\"/>\n<section begin=\"General Election 2001\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 2001\"/>\n\n<section begin=\"General Election 1997\"/>\n\n<section end=\"General Election 1997\"/>\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819003", "title": "Beth Liebling", "text": "Beth Liebling\n\nBeth Liebling (born March 12, 1967 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American musician known for being the co-founder of Seattle-based experimental instrumental group Hovercraft with guitarist/keyboardist/samplist Ryan Campbell (\"Campbell 2000\"). She played bass for the band under the stage name Sadie 7.\n\nLiebling first became interested in playing while, as a teenager, attending all ages hardcore punk shows in Chicago such as Articles of Faith and the Dead Kennedys. After high school Liebling moved to San Diego, California and attended San Diego State University. She graduated with a degree in journalism in 1990.\n\nPrior to forming the trio Hovercraft, Liebling and Campbell had played together in Space Helmet, which formed when Liebling moved to Seattle. Space Helmet broke up when Campbell moved to New York City and the other members of Space Helmet, including Campbell's brother, formed the band Magnog. Ryan Campbell's departure for New York was short and upon his return, Hovercraft was formed and continued to record until 1999.\n\nHovercraft, who had been included in the grunge music documentary \"Hype!\" (1996), had existed for four years before they released their first and only 7\" single, \"0,0,0,1,\" (1995). Drums on early recordings were provided by Eddie Vedder, under the name \"Jerome230\", and Xu Xu Fang's Bobby Tamkin, using the name \"Paul 4\". Hovercraft's first tour of the United States was as the opening act for the Foo Fighters and Mike Watt. When Vedder left, the band reunited with Bobby Tamkin, and later found a new drummer, Dave Krusen, a.k.a. Karl 3-30, who had been the drummer on Pearl Jam's record \"Ten\". With Krusen they recorded \"Stereo Specific Polymerization\" on their own label, Repellent Records. In 1997 they were signed by Daniel and Paul Smith to London-based Mute Records. In America, they were represented by \"Mute Records America\". They released \"Akathisia\" in 1997 and \"Experiment Below\" in 1998. Hovercraft toured the United States a few times on their own, and in Europe with Unwound. Hovercraft also collaborated on the project Schema with Stereolab's Mary Hansen, releasing an album in 2000.\n\nAfter Hovercraft ended around 2000, Liebling took a brief hiatus from music. She later sat in on sessions with various groups in Los Angeles, including playing drums in the Los Angeles-based group Lola.\n\nLiebling married longtime boyfriend Eddie Vedder in Rome, Italy, in 1994, after having been together since 1983. They divorced in September 2000.\n"}
{"id": "1819006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819006", "title": "North Dorset (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "North Dorset (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNorth Dorset is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Simon Hoare, a Conservative.\n\nThis seat was created by the Redistribution of Seats Act 1885, since which it has been won at elections by candidates from only two parties. For nineteen of the years between 1885 and 1950, North Dorset was represented by Liberals, and at all other times since 1885 it has been represented by Conservatives.\n\nThe constituency covers North Dorset local government district and most (geographically) of East Dorset. It is largely rural, with a lower than average proportion of social housing and five small towns shown in the infobox. The largest town is Verwood, and the most central is the market town of Blandford Forum, north of the port of Poole.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Shaftesbury, the Sessional Divisions of Blandford, Shaftesbury, and Sturminster, and part of the Sessional Division of Sherborne.\n\n1918–1950: The Municipal Boroughs of Blandford Forum and Shaftesbury, the Urban District of Sherborne, the Rural Districts of Blandford, Shaftesbury, Sherborne, and Sturminster, and part of the Rural District of Wimborne and Cranborne.\n\n1950–1974: The Municipal Boroughs of Blandford Forum and Shaftesbury, the Urban District of Wimborne Minster, and the Rural Districts of Blandford, Shaftesbury, Sturminster, and Wimborne and Cranborne.\n\n1974–1983: As 1950 but with redrawn boundaries.\n\n1983–1997: The District of North Dorset, the District of Wimborne wards of Colehill, Corfe Mullen Central, Corfe Mullen North, Corfe Mullen South, Crane, Holt, Sixpenny Handley, Sturminster Marshall, Vale of Allen, and Wimborne Minster, and the District of Purbeck wards of Lytchett Matravers and Lytchett Minster.\n\n1997–2010: The District of North Dorset, and the District of East Dorset wards of Colehill, Crane, Holt, Longham, Sixpenny Handley, Stapehill, Sturminster Marshall, Vale of Allen, and Wimborne Minster.\n\n2010–present: The District of North Dorset, and the District of East Dorset wards of Alderholt, Crane, Handley Vale, Holt, Stour, Three Cross and Potterne, Verwood Dewlands, Verwood Newtown, and Verwood Stephen's Castle.\n\nGeneral Election 1939/40\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1940. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the Autumn of 1939, the following candidates had been selected; \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819008", "title": "Toryglen", "text": "Toryglen\n\nToryglen is a district in southern Glasgow, Scotland, falling within the Langside ward under Glasgow City Council. It is approximately two miles south of the city centre, bounded to the west by Mount Florida, the north-west by Polmadie, to the north-east by the West Coast Main Line railway and the M74 motorway the south by King's Park, and immediately to the east by the town of Rutherglen.\n\nThe name 'Torryglen' first appeared on maps in the late 18th century and was a small farmhouse in the north of the present day territory.\n\nThe area is broadly defined as between the major railway lines to the north, Curtis Avenue to the south and Aikenhead Road to the west. The eastern boundary where Glasgow meets South Lanarkshire (the Rutherglen neighbourhoods of Burnhill and Newfield) is difficult to observe from ground level as it involves houses backing onto one another right up to the border in most places. However, as this is a major administrative divide it is clearly marked on maps, with the street names also changing, e.g. Newfield Place becomes Ardnahoe Avenue. \n\nToryglen is residential in character, built mainly south of Prospecthill Road between 1947 and 1962 by the Scottish Special Housing Association on land which was previously a farm and a golf course. As well as tenements, the area contains some of the city's early experiments in multi-storey housing, built around 1955 at Prospecthill Crescent.\nIn the northern portion of the district, Prospecthill Circus was a colourful collection of two 23-storey tower blocks, a 20-storey slab block and numerous deck access maisonettes (all since demolished) constructed by the city authorities between 1963 and 1968. When the neighbourhood was at its lowest ebb in the mid-2000s awaiting redevelopment, the local street gang, usually known as the 'Toryglen Toi', re-named themselves 'Nazi Circus' as a reaction to asylum seekers being housed in empty properties in the area, with a perception that the incomers were being given priority treatment over locals living in deprivation.\n\nA derelict multi-storey block awaiting demolition in Prospecthill Circus was used in 2006 by SONY to create an advertisement for their BRAVIA range of televisions. The commercial involved the blasting of paint onto disused buildings. The main tower block in the advert was demolished in a controlled explosion on 21 January 2007; the remaining two towers survived for almost a decade before being demolished in stages during late 2016, using a Long reach excavator.\n\n'The Circus' underwent comprehensive redevelopment by the Glasgow Housing Association (GHA) in the early 21st century, culminating in a major development by Cruden Homes, with construction taking place between around 2015 and 2018, leaving the area virtually unrecognisable from the way it looked a few years prior.\nThe 851 tenement flats and 232 tower block apartments in the south of the district (managed by Thistle Housing Association) were also refurbished externally, including brighter rendering and energy efficiency, in the 2010s. The association's management of the properties came under scrutiny during the course of the project which suffered various delays and serious concerns over quality and safety, resulting in some of the houses being transferred to Sanctuary Scotland in 2020 on instruction of the Scottish Housing Regulator.\n\nBetween 1967 and 1994, the buildings of Queen's Park Secondary School (originally based at Grange Road, Battlefield) were located in Toryglen. After several years as a derelict plot, the 'Crown Gardens' housing development was built on the site.\n\nThe school's football pitches (on the south side of Prospecthill Road) were built into Toryglen Regional Football Centre, as part of Glasgow City Council's plans to boost the city's sporting facilities in the run up to hosting the 2014 Commonwealth Games. On the opposite site of the road there is an Asda superstore.\n\nThe \"Malls Mire\" burn, which has been almost entirely culverted, runs north-west under Hampden Park, the Football Centre and the supermarket, to the west of the Prospecthill Circus area under the railway line and motorway, joins the West/Cityford Burn from Rutherglen which becomes the Polmadie Burn (also known as Jenny's Burn) – once heavily polluted by waste from \"White's Chemicals\" at nearby Shawfield – and flows into the River Clyde at Richmond Park. While it was visible above ground, the Malls Mire formed part of the boundary between the ancient counties of Renfrewshire and Lanarkshire.\n\nThe burn gives its name to an adjacent area of ground between Toryglen and Burnhill (meeting football pitches including the home ground of Rutherglen Glencairn F.C.), which lay overgrown for some years but was cleaned and landscaped in the early 21st century to be maintained as a 'community woodland', and was granted Local nature reserve status in 2015.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819009", "title": "Bristol West (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Bristol West (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nBristol West is a borough constituency represented in the House of Commons of the Parliament of the United Kingdom since 2015 by Thangam Debbonaire of the Labour Party. It covers the central and western parts of Bristol.\n\n1885–1918: The Municipal Borough of Bristol wards: Clifton, St Augustine's, St Michael's, and Westbury, and the local government district of Horfield.\n\n1918–1950: The County Borough of Bristol wards: Clifton North, Clifton South, Horfield, Redland, St Michael, and Westbury-on-Trym.\n\n1950–1955: The County Borough of Bristol wards: Bishopston, Clifton, Redland, St Augustine, St James, and St Michael.\n\n1955–1974: The County Borough of Bristol wards: Bishopston, Cabot, Clifton, Durdham, and Redland.\n\n1974–1983: as above plus District\n\n1983–1997: The City of Bristol wards of Ashley, Bishopston, Cabot, Clifton, Cotham, Henleaze, Redland, and Stoke Bishop.\n\n1997–2010: as above plus Westbury-on-Trym.\n\n2010–present: as above less Westbury-on-Trym, Stoke Bishop and Henleaze, plus Clifton East, Easton, and Lawrence Hill\n\nThe above shows that the changes implemented for the 2010 general election boundaries were relatively great, recommended by a periodic impartial Boundary Commission review. Easton and Lawrence Hill wards were transferred from Bristol East, while Henleaze, Stoke Bishop and Westbury-on-Trym wards were lost to Bristol North West. During the review, a proposal to rename the constituency as \"Bristol Central\" was rejected.\n\nMore compactly urban since 2010, the seat retains a high proportion of the city's most garden-rich, grandest houses and landscaped civic parks. Held by Conservatives continuously for 112 years, it was at various points represented by Conservative cabinet ministers Michael Hicks-Beach, Oliver Stanley, Walter Monckton and William Waldegrave. As part of a national Labour Party landslide, exceeding that of 1945, the 1997 gain by Valerie Davey was from a third-placed starting point for the party's candidate in 1992. Many of the townhouses in Bristol were subdivided in the latter half of the 20th century, during which time the size of the University of Bristol increased (the city's largest single independent employer which is chiefly in the seat) and the University of the West of England overtook its scale, mainly in Filton & Bradley Stoke constituency.\n\nAt the 2005 election the seat was Liberal Democrat target number 18, and Conservative target number 50; it had been frequently described in the media as a \"three-way marginal\", and all parties fought hard for the constituency. The seat was taken by Liberal Democrat Stephen Williams with a large majority, thought to have been aided by the large student electorate, hostile to Labour's top-up fees policy. This Liberal Democrat success was similar to those in other seats with a large student population, such as Cambridge, Manchester Withington, Leeds North West and Cardiff Central. In the 2010 election, Stephen Williams held the seat with an increased majority. In the 2015 general election, the Lib Dem vote fell by 29.2%; Williams came a distant third behind the winning Labour candidate Thangam Debbonaire and more than 5,000 votes behind the Green Party candidate, who achieved the greatest increase in the Green vote (+23%) in any seat that election. In 2017 Bristol West had the biggest swing to Labour in the country. The 52.1% majority was also the largest in the seat since 1931.\n\nIn the 2016 referendum to leave the European Union, the constituency voted remain by 79.3%. This was the second highest support for remain for a constituency.\n\nAs a result of the formation of a Brexit 'Unite to Remain' pact between the Liberal Democrats, the Green Party and Plaid Cymru prior to the 2019 snap election, the Liberal Democrats agreed to withdraw from the Bristol West election in favour of the Green Party.\n\n\"(Note that the vote-share changes for 2010 are from the notional results on the new boundaries, not the actual 2005 results)\"\n\nHicks Beach was appointed Chief Secretary to the Lord Lieutenant of Ireland, requiring a by-election.\n\nHicks Beach was appointed President of the Board of Trade, requiring a by-election.\n\nGeneral Election 1914/15:\n\nAnother General Election was required to take place before the end of 1915. The political parties had been making preparations for an election to take place and by the July 1914, the following candidates had been selected;\n\n"}
{"id": "1819013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819013", "title": "Ravenala", "text": "Ravenala\n\nRavenala is a genus of flowering plants with a single species, Ravenala madagascariensis, commonly known as the traveller's tree, traveller's palm or East-West palm, from Madagascar. It is not a true palm (family Arecaceae) but a member of a monocotyledonous flowering plant family, Strelitziaceae. The genus is closely related to the southern African genus \"Strelitzia\" and the South American genus \"Phenakospermum\". Some older classifications include these genera in the banana family (Musaceae). Although it is usually considered to be a single species, four different forms have been distinguished.\n\nIt has been given the name \"traveller's palm\" because the sheaths of the stems hold rainwater, which supposedly could be used as an emergency drinking supply for needy travellers. However, the water inside the plant is murky, black and smelly and should not be consumed without purification. Another plausible reason for its name is that the fan tends to grow on an east-west line, providing a crude compass.\n\nThe scientific name \"Ravenala\" comes from Malagasy \"ravinala\" meaning \"forest leaves\".\n\nThe enormous paddle-shaped leaves are borne on long petioles, in a distinctive fan shape aligned in a single plane (distichous). The large white flowers are structurally similar to those of its relatives, the bird-of-paradise flowers \"Strelitzia reginae\" and \"Strelitzia nicolai\", but are generally considered less attractive, with a green bract. These flowers, upon being pollinated, produce brilliant blue seeds; possibly the only blue seeds found in nature. In tropical and subtropical regions, the plant is widely cultivated for its distinctive habit and foliage. As the plant grows older, it progressively loses the lowest or oldest leaves and reveals a sturdy grey trunk. Of the four forms, varieties or subspecies, the largest is the \"Bemavo\", from the hills of eastern Madagascar, which can be 100 feet (30 metres) in height with a trunk 2 feet (60 cm) thick. The foliar fan consists of 20 to 35 leaves, each as much as 36 feet (11  metres) in length.\n\nThe chromosome number is 2n = 22.\n\nRuffed lemurs are a known pollinator of this plant, and given the size and structure of the inflorescences, as well as the lemur's selectivity, method of feeding, and long muzzle, this relationship is thought to have coevolved.\n\nThe plant requires a sunny spot (not full sun until it is larger). It responds well to fertiliser, especially if it is high in nitrogen during the growing season. This produces better growth and foliage. The plant grows to an average height of and requires moderate water.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819019", "title": "New Forest East (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "New Forest East (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nNew Forest East is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 1997 by Julian Murray Lewis, a Conservative.\n\nIn demography and local geography, the district of which the constituency is \"de facto\" under present guidelines of the Boundary Commission a division for the purposes of Westminster (which neatly splits into two seats and there is a strong present emphasis on avoiding cross-district seats) contrasts with highly urban districts such as neighbouring Southampton City Council in the average age, home ownership status and affluence of its electorate. The industrial element and mid-density housing of the Southampton Water strip results in some or all Labour and Liberal Democrat councillors in this area at the local district elections from creation to date, and contributes strongly towards the latter party's peak performance leaving the winner a 9% majority in 2001. This contrasts with the Conservative winner's greatest majority to date in 2017 of 42.8% of the votes over his nearest rival which ranks Lewis among the top 10% of his party's MPs by majority. The history of district itself is typical of inherent suburban and retiree districts as it was largely created for the preservation of the National Park and to provide contrast in planning and ethos to the City of Southampton and the Bournemouth conurbation.\n\nThe constituency covers the eastern half of the New Forest National Park in Hampshire and land to the east adjoining Southampton Water – almost the whole of its population live in the waterside settlements Totton, Marchwood, Hythe and Fawley or the major forest villages of Lyndhurst, Brockenhurst and Beaulieu.\n\nFor all areas the relevant local authority has a higher than average proportion of retired people, and a lower than national average extent of social housing and rented housing. Housing types include far above average detached and semi-detached properties.\n\n1997–2010: The District of New Forest wards of Blackfield and Langley, Boldre, Brockenhurst, Colbury, Copythorne South, Dibden and Hythe North, Dibden Purlieu, Fawley Holbury, Forest North, Forest South, Hythe South, Lyndhurst, Marchwood, Netley Marsh, Totton Central, Totton North, and Totton South.\n\n2010–present: The District of New Forest wards of Ashurst, Copythorne South and Netley Marsh, Boldre and Sway, Bramshaw, Copythorne North and Minstead, Brockenhurst and Forest South East, Butts Ash and Dibden Purlieu, Dibden and Hythe East, Fawley, Blackfield and Langley, Furzedown and Hardley, Holbury and North Blackfield, Hythe West and Langdown, Lyndhurst, Marchwood, Totton Central, Totton East, Totton North, Totton South, and Totton West.\n\nThis constituency was created when the old New Forest constituency was divided for the 1997 general election since its creation results suggest a Conservative safe seat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819032", "title": "Ford Comète", "text": "Ford Comète\n\nThe Ford Comète (later known as the Simca Comète) is a car that was built between 1951 and 1954 in France by Ford SAF. Intended as the luxury model in the range, the Comète's bodywork was built by FACEL, who later produced the better-known Facel Vega luxury cars under their own name. The original engine was a 2.2 L V8 produced by Ford SAF of French design, also used in the Ford Vedette, with a Pont-à-Mousson 4-speed manual transmission fitted.\n\nThe original model had a single horizontal bar across the grille with a chromed shield or bullet in the centre, somewhat similar to contemporary Studebaker products, among others, with steel wheels and chromed hubcaps.\n\nIn October 1952, for the Paris Motor Show, the Comète appeared with an engine enlarged from 2,158 cc to 2,355 cc. Claimed horse-power was raised from 68 hp to 80 hp indicating that there was more to the engine upgrade than simply an increase in the cylinder bore from 66.0 mm to 67.9 mm. (The stroke remained unchanged at 81.3 mm.) The most obvious of several other engine enhancements at this stage was the increase in the compression ratio from 6.8 : 1 to 7.4 : 1, reflecting the appearance of slightly higher octane fuels. Torque and engine flexibility were also improved and the claimed top speed increased from 130 km/h (81 mph) to 145 km/h (90 mph).\n\nAvailable from the start of 1954, a new \"Monte-Carlo\" model appeared with the 3,923 cc V8 engine normally fitted to Ford trucks; this engine, befitting its truck heritage, delivered 78 kW (105 hp) with plenty of torque. Performance was much improved, but the new engine did not endear itself to buyers of the car having a \"truck engine\", The engine's large displacement meant that its taxed horsepower rating imposed by the French government was 22CV, giving a high road tax in a country where government taxation policy, especially after 1948, was high for cars with engine sizes above 2 litres. This new model was fitted with wire wheels, a fake hood scoop, and a typical for the time Ford egg-crate grille, consisting of vertical and horizontal equally spaced bars. The French called this grille a \"coupe-frites\": a \"french-fry cutter\".\n\nThe Comète combined the elegant style of a body by Facel with the mechanical underpinnings of the Ford Vedette combined with a shortened wheelbase. The rear seat was stylishly designed, especially on the upmarket \"Monte-Carlo\" version with its two-colour leather seat covers, but nevertheless offered insufficient leg space for adults, other than on the shortest and most unavoidable of journeys. The economy was beginning to grow robustly by the mid-1950s, but the market capacity for cars of this size remained small and Comète sales were correspondingly modest. Above all, it was handicapped by a list price that was (in October 1953) 65% higher than that for the mechanically similar Vedette. Customers interested in the larger engined 3,923 cc versions were faced with a price for the \"Monte-Carlo\" (once it became available at the start of 1954) that was 51% higher than that of the spacious four door Vendôme.\n\nDuring 1954, Ford SAF was sold, and the Comète's final year of production took place under Simca. The Simca Comète Monte-Carlo continued to be offered till July 1955.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819044", "title": "Henrietta Edwards", "text": "Henrietta Edwards\n\nHenrietta Muir Edwards (18 December 184910 November 1931) was a Canadian women's rights activist and reformer.\nShe was the eldest of \"The Famous Five\", along with Emily Murphy, Nellie McClung, Louise McKinney and Irene Parlby, who fought to have women recognized as \"persons\" under the law, and for the woman's right to vote in elections.\n\nShe was born Henrietta Louise Muir in Montreal. She grew up in an upper-middle-class family that valued culture and religion. Edwards became active in many religious organizations, where she grew disenchanted with old traditions where the exclusion of women was acceptable.\n\nAs a young woman, Edwards and her sister Amélia founded a Working Girls’ Association in Montreal in 1875 to provide meals, reading rooms and study classes. This would become one of Canada's first YWCAs. They also published a periodical, The Working Women of Canada, which helped to bring working conditions into the public eye. This project was undertaken at their own expense, and was funded from their earnings as artists.\n\nHenrietta Edwards was married to Dr. Oliver C. Edwards in 1876 and they had three children. They moved to Indian Head, North West Territories (now Saskatchewan) in 1883. Dr. Edwards was the government doctor for the Indigenous reserves there. Henrietta continued to pursue women’s rights and feminist organizations on the prairies.\n\nIn 1890, Edwards’s husband fell ill so they returned to Ottawa,(the capital of Canada) where she \"took up the cause of female prisoners and worked with Lady Aberdeen, wife of the Governor General, to establish the National Council of Women of Canada in 1893.\" Henrietta served for 35 years as their chair for Laws Governing Women and Children, and because of her expertise in this area of the law was appointed chair of the Provincial Council of Alberta. With Lady Aberdeen she also helped establish the Victorian Order of Nurses (VON) in 1897.\n\nThe Edwards family moved to Fort Macleod, Northwest Territories (now Alberta) in 1904, where her husband was posted as a medical officer to the Blood tribe.\n\nDuring the latter period of the First World War, when supplies and morale were at a low, the Government of Canada selected individuals to assist in an advisory capacity about how to invoke stricter conservation measures. Mrs. Edwards was part of the selected committee, and it was the first time in Canadian history that a woman had been called upon for a review of public policy with the Government.\n\nEdwards wrote two books about women and the legal problems she was trying to overcome, \"Legal Status of Canadian Women\" (1908) and \"Legal Status of Women in Alberta\" (1921). She worked with Louise McKinney, Irene Parlby and Emily Murphy to \"lobby the Alberta government for recognition of dower and matrimonial property rights.\" This friendship and collaboration would be called upon again to fight for the Persons Case in the late 1920s, which established that Canadian women were eligible to be appointed senators and more generally, that Canadian women had the same rights as Canadian men with respect to positions of political power.\nAs an artist, the Canadian government commissioned her to paint a set of dishes for the Canadian exhibit at the 1893 World's Columbian Exposition.\n\nHenrietta was buried in Mount Pleasant Municipal Cemetery, Edmonton. The memorial erected to her memory reads \"Let her own works praise her. Her delight was in the law of the Lord\" Her date of death on the memorial is given as 9 Nov 1931. Her date of death is listed as 10 Nov 1931 in the Canadian Encyclopedia.\n\nIn 1962, Edwards was recognized as Person of National Historic Significance by the government of Canada. A plaque commemorating this is placed at the entrance to Fort Macleod Post Office, Haultain Ave & 22 St., Fort Macleod, Alberta. The \"Persons case\" was recognized as an Historic Event in 1997. In addition, in October 2009, the Senate voted to name Edwards and the rest of the Five, Canada's first \"honorary senators.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1819051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819051", "title": "Centre Wellington Citizens Coalition", "text": "Centre Wellington Citizens Coalition\n\nThe Centre Wellington Citizens Coalition (CWCC) is a grassroots group of citizenry seeking to protect the environment and liveability of the Centre Wellington region from the Greater Toronto Area's encroaching urban sprawl. The group received national Canadian television coverage in 2002 when it was sued by its own township government, for resisting the imposition of a large provincial gambling development.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819057", "title": "Robert Trimbole", "text": "Robert Trimbole\n\nBruno Robert Trimbole (19 March 1931 – 12 May 1987) was an Australian businessman, drug baron and organised crime boss whose alleged involvement in drug trafficking in the Griffith, New South Wales area, which according to popular loose fiction series \"\", led to a royal commission, a Coroner's inquest and an international chase by the Australian Government seeking his apprehension after he travelled overseas visiting Europe.\n\nTrimbole was born on 19 March 1931 to Italian parents who migrated from the southern Italian region of Calabria. In 1952, Trimbole married Joan Quested in Sydney then moved to his parents' house in Griffith, New South Wales. After several months Robert and Joan moved into their own rented property and raised their four children.\n\nHe rented a nearby garage and operated as a mechanic, also said to have undertaken his own panel beating and spray painting within the business before declaring himself bankrupt in 1968 with debts of A$11,000.\n\nAfter his bankruptcy, Trimbole resided in Griffith, NSW, Australia, and took about repairing pinball machines and doing well financially. In 1972 he opened a restaurant called The Texan Tavern and a butcher shop named The Texan Butchery. He sold both businesses to an associate, Giuseppe Sergi in 1973. By this stage Trimbole's wealth had grown substantially and he was able to discharge his earlier bankruptcy.\n\nThrough his legitimate businesses Trimbole had built an empire valued at over A$2 million, and through local confusion and jealousy, had also earned himself a reputation as a major drug baron. Many locals referred to his house as the \"Grass Castle\", a reference to Trimbole's rise to power in the illegal marijuana trade.\n\nTrimbole invested in many investment items and businesses, including farms, cars, speedboats, several clothing stores, a liquor store and a wholesale wine business. He later added a trucking company and a supermarket. He also purchased land to further his orange and grape growing capacity. Trimbole seemed to go about his business activities virtually unchallenged.\n\nHe soon became the principal of the Australian plant-based cultivation trade based in New South Wales, and earned the nickname \"The Godfather\", a reference to his leadership qualities and Italian background. He also went by the nickname \"Aussie Bob\", a term allegedly given to him by his New Zealand associates, but was in fact given to him as a young man due to his strong Australian accent amongst his Italian brothers, sisters, community friends and associates.\n\nRobert ran the organisation of pickers for the NSW farms of marijuana well above Griffith down past Hay and short of Balranald, New South Wales where he then skirted across the border down towards Melbourne. 'Big Bill' Griffith had not been able to retain Griffith during the 1950s and maintained a cordial relationship as long as both did not cross into the other's 'turf', Big Bill had Balranald and there was a line on the road near Hay to denote the blood boundary. Big Bill was though the money lender, interesting Big Bill lent to everybody and funded Al Grasby Minister for Immigration to the tune of $50,000 to make a problem go away carried by Big Bill's Grandson Steven. Neutral turf was always the race track where all borders abstained while deals were done, Robert and Big Bill preferred Moonee Valley racetrack. $50,000 was known as a 'brick', because it was so heavy with no $50 notes. At all pickings there were always three police escort vehicles, and school buses had windows blacked out, a nights picking in the seventies for a child was $100 cash, it generated one semitrailer of 'dope', the country word for city people who smoke it.\n\nDonald Bruce Mackay was a local politician, and anti-drugs campaigner. He was born and raised in Griffith, New South Wales, and operated his family's furniture business. Described as being very community minded, Mackay was an Australian Liberal Party candidate from 1973 to 1976, but failed to win a seat in parliament.\n\nConcerned about the growing drug trade in his local area, and learning of a large crop of marijuana in nearby Coleambally, New South Wales, Mackay told Sydney police of the information he had obtained regarding the crop, which resulted in several arrests, and four men of Italian descent being convicted on Mackay's information.\n\nUnfortunately for Mackay, at the trial of the men arrested, his name was read out during evidence, identifying him as the whistleblower. On 12 July 1977 an attempt was made by an unidentified man to lure Mackay to Jerilderie. The caller claimed to want to make a large order of furniture from Mackay's family business. Mackay, busy attending a funeral at the time of the planned meeting with other matters, sent an employee, who travelled to Jerilderie to find nobody about.\n\nOn 15 July 1977, Mackay disappeared from the Griffith Hotel car park after having drinks with friends, and his body has never been found. At the scene of Mackay's disappearance, his locked van had bloodstains on the door, wheel rim, mudguard and tyre and Mackay's car keys and three spent .22 casings were found at the scene. Trimbole is believed to have arranged the contract style killing of Mackay.\n\nThe disappearance of Mackay prompted a royal commission into the Griffith drug trade, known as the Woodward Royal Commission after its sole Commissioner, the Honorable Philip Morgan Woodward.\n\nAfter several months, the Commission reduced the suspect list to six people including:\n\nJustice Woodward says in the official transcript, \"I have named Trimbole as being associated with the production of marijuana in Griffith as well as being the director of an operation in Euston. He is, if not the 'top man' in relation to the production of marijuana in the Griffith area, then one of them and closely associated with Antonio Sergi in the same enterprise.\"\n\nWoodward found regarding the disappearance of Mackay that \"the disposal of Mackay was the result of an organised plan. He was disposed of by the organisation which I find existed in Griffith. I am satisfied that the appointment to meet Mackay at Jerilderie was part of a plan to ambush and dispose of him.\" A year later the New South Wales Supreme Court officially declared Donald Mackay as \"presumed deceased\".\n\nNo further action was taken. Trimbole and his associates were free to return to business as usual.\n\nSeven years after the Woodward Royal Commission, political and media pressure called for an inquest into Mackay's death, which was eventually held before Coroner Bruce Brown.\n\nThe inquest also heard evidence showing that lights in the car park had been broken before the meeting time set with Mackay, indicating a premeditated act to ambush him, and that Mackay feared for his life after learning that the crop leading to the convictions of the four men had an estimated street value of more than A$25 million.\n\nEvidence was also submitted regarding a man by the name of Patrick Joseph Keenan who made a statement to police that he had walked into a shed in the Griffth area and found Antonio Sergi inside with several women packing large quantities of marijuana into plastic bags.\n\nForensic evidence supported the crown's case, including ballistic evidence showing that the three .22 cases found at the scene had been fired from the same weapon, a French \"Unique\" brand hand gun. Blood and hair samples were also recovered from the scene and matched to Mackay.\n\nCoroner Brown said, \"The evidence has now reached the point where I am of the opinion that a prima facie case of murder, in that each was an accessory before or after the fact, has been established against two known persons whose identity I must not publicly reveal in accordance with the prohibition under section 19 of the Coroners Act.\"\n\nOn 5 May 1981, police recorded a conversation between Trimbole and an associate, Dr Nick Paltos, about his pending arrest for conspiracy to murder Mackay.\n\nTrimbole fled to the United States, then to France and finally to Ireland, avoiding customs checks by changing his date of birth on a departure card.\n\nA month later Trimbole was arrested in Ireland and held in custody awaiting extradition but, aided by a battery of high priced lawyers, managed to avoid extradition after the Irish Government refused to extradite him to Australia and he was released.\n\nThe Australian government appealed against the decision of the Irish court, but Trimbole regained his freedom.\n\nAustralian Federal Police intercepted phone conversations of Paltos discussing the failed extradition attempt of Trimbole and made mention of the large amounts of money that Trimbole had spent on his defence, explaining that efforts to extradite Trimbole failed largely due to the efforts of Irish constitutional lawyer Patrick MacEntee, who had become famous for defending IRA members.\n\nTrimbole escaped Ireland to Spain, where he died in a Spanish hospital on 12 May 1987, at the age of 56. His body was returned to Australia and his funeral was held in Sydney, where mourners and journalists brawled and made news headlines around the country on the evening news. He was buried at Pine Grove Memorial Park in Minchinbury, New South Wales on 25 May 1987.\n\nTrimbole is a central character in the drama series \"\", a mini-series on the Nine Network. He is portrayed by actor Roy Billing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819061", "title": "Hjälmaren", "text": "Hjälmaren\n\nHjälmaren ( ), also spelled Jälmaren, is Sweden's fourth largest lake. It is situated in the Central Swedish lowland and drains through Eskilstunaån into the adjacent Lake Mälaren, which in turn drains into the Baltic Sea, west of Stockholm. It is connected by waterway with Stockholm by the 13 kilometres long Hjälmare kanal.\n\nIt is bounded by the provinces of Södermanland, Närke, and Västmanland.\n\nHjälmaren is 63 kilometres long, about 20 kilometres wide, and has an average depth of 6 metres, and a surface of 483 km². The town of Örebro is situated at the western end of the lake.\nThe lake, however, has become an iconic part of Sweden with music festivals taking place on the banks of the lake. Such notable bands to play there are The Smashing Pumpkins, Sonic Youth and Pearl Jam.\n\n1878 until 1887 the project Hjälmarsänkningen lowered the surface level of Hjälmaren 1.3m to free up land for agriculture and to reduce the risk of flooding.\n\nThe rebel Engelbrekt Engelbrektsson, was assassinated in 1436 at Engelbrektsholmen, an islet in Lake Hjälmaren.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819064", "title": "Hjälmare kanal", "text": "Hjälmare kanal\n\nHjälmaren Canal ( ) is a 13 kilometres long canal that connects Lake Hjälmaren with Lake Mälaren in Sweden.\n\nThe canal was taken into use in 1639, aimed to transport iron from the Central Swedish Mining District to Stockholm and further abroad. Plans to extend the canal west of Örebro to Lake Vänern and further to Göta älv were never realized (hilly area). Instead Göta Canal, located further south and taken into use in 1832, fulfilled the aimed function of connecting the Baltic with the North Sea.\n\nTraffic on the Hjälmaren Canal was frequently discontinued due to a considerable maintenance need, which is why the canal was relocated in 1830. The relocation led to radically decreased maintenance costs and increased reliability. But the canal's importance diminished in the late 19th century due to competition from rail transport. At the same time Sweden's metallurgic and timber industry came to focus on provinces far further north in Sweden.\n\nSince the reconstruction of 1830, 9 canal locks lower the boats 22 metres down to Lake Mälaren. Boats may not exceed the dimensions 30x7 metres and a maximum draught of 1.9 metres.\n"}
{"id": "1819068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819068", "title": "Sambucus ebulus", "text": "Sambucus ebulus\n\nSambucus ebulus, also known as danewort, dane weed, danesblood, dwarf elder or European dwarf elder, walewort, dwarf elderberry, elderwort and blood hilder, is a herbaceous species of elder, native to southern and central Europe and southwest Asia. The species is also reportedly naturalized in parts of North America (New York, New Jersey and Québec).\n\n\"Sambucus ebulus\" grows to a height of 1–2 m and has erect, usually unbranched stems growing in large groups from an extensive perennial underground stem rhizome. The leaves are opposite, pinnate, 15–30 cm long, with 5-9 leaflets with a foetid smell. The stems terminate in a corymb 10–15 cm diameter with numerous white (occasionally pink) flat-topped hermaphrodite flowers. The fruit is a small glossy black berry 5–6 mm diameter. The ripe fruit give out a purple juice.\n\nThe name danewort comes from the belief that it only grows on the sites of battles that involved the Danes. The term 'walewort' or 'walwort' meant 'foreigner plant.' The plant's stems and leaves turn red in autumn and this may explain the link with blood. The word Dane may link to an old term for diarrhoea.\n\n\"Sambucus ebulus\" fruits have been used in the traditional Austrian medicine for treatment of disorders of the respiratory tract and fever.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819073", "title": "Germanic philology", "text": "Germanic philology\n\nGermanic philology is the philological study of the Germanic languages, particularly from a comparative or historical perspective.\n\nThe beginnings of research into the Germanic languages began in the 16th century, with the discovery of literary texts in the earlier phases of the languages. Early modern publications dealing with Old Norse culture appeared in the 16th century, e.g. \"Historia de gentibus septentrionalibus\" (Olaus Magnus, 1555) and the first edition of the\n13th century \"Gesta Danorum\" (Saxo Grammaticus), in 1514.\nIn 1603, Melchior Goldast made the first edition of Middle High German poetry, Tyrol and Winsbeck, including a commentary which focused on linguistic problems and set the tone for the approach to such works in the subsequent centuries. He later gave similar attention to the Old High German Benedictine Rule. In England, Cotton's studies of the manuscripts in his collection marks the beginnings of work on Old English language.\nThe pace of publication increased during the 17th century with Latin translations of the Edda (notably Peder Resen's \"Edda Islandorum\" of 1665).\n\nGermanic philology, together with linguistics as a whole, emerged as a serious academic discipline in the early 19th century, pioneered particularly in Germany by such linguists as Jacob Grimm, who discovered Grimm's law, on the sound change across Germanic languages. Important 19th century scholars include Henry Sweet and Matthias Lexer.\n\nThe structure of the modern university means that for the most part work on the field is focused on medieval English studies, medieval German studies, etc. Only relatively few universities can afford to offer Comparative linguistics as a discrete field.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819077", "title": "Orkney and Shetland", "text": "Orkney and Shetland\n\nOrkney and Shetland may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819086", "title": "David Mead (musician)", "text": "David Mead (musician)\n\nDavid Worth Mead (born 1973) is a Nashville-based pop singer-songwriter. Over the years he has toured extensively, headlining as well as opening shows for John Mayer, Fountains of Wayne, Ron Sexsmith, Liz Phair, Joe Jackson, and Shelby Lynne.\n\nBorn to a traveling salesman father and school teacher mother, David Mead moved often during childhood, mostly around the southern US. As a kid, he sang in the church choir and school stage productions like \"The Sound Of Music\". When he was thirteen, he got his first guitar and was soon writing his own songs. Three years later, he was gigging out professionally. His travels eventually took him to Nashville, where he played in bands such as Blue Million and Joe, Marc's Brother. Drawing on a wide range of influences – from The Beatles to Broadway to The Police to Rufus Wainwright - Mead has honed a highly melodic and emotionally direct style of pop.\n\nIn 1998, Mead signed a major label deal with RCA Records and moved to New York City soon after. The initial sessions for his debut – three songs recorded with Gus Dudgeon (Elton John, XTC) - proved unsuccessful and were scrapped. Mead then regrouped with producers Peter Collins (Cardigans, Rush) and Jason Lehning (Emerson Hart, Alison Krauss), and between October 1998-February 1999, cut The Luxury of Time. \"The title came from the fact that I had all of my life up to that point to write the songs,\" Mead said. Indeed, the album's fifteen songs were culled from thirty-two demos. Released September 28, 1999 on RCA, the album garnered strong critical response and featured performances from Rusty Anderson (Paul McCartney), Kenny Aronoff (John Mellencamp, Smashing Pumpkins) and Paul Deakin (The Mavericks).\n\nMead's second album, produced by Adam Schlesinger (Fountains Of Wayne), was recorded at New York City's legendary Sear Sound Studio (John Lennon, Steely Dan) and released May 15, 2001 on RCA. Featuring guest performances from Dominique Durand (Ivy), Sean Pelton (SNL Band), Danny Weinkaupf (They Might Be Giants) and Jody Porter (Fountains Of Wayne), its fourteen songs were recorded from thirty-four demos. Two of the album's most notable tracks, \"Standing Here In Front Of Me\" and \"Girl On A Roof,\" were written one week before recording commenced, when RCA asked for more \"single material.\" \"Standing Here In Front Of Me\" was later featured in CBS's \"The Bold and the Beautiful\", and \"Girl On The Roof\" appeared in the motion picture \"The Sweetest Thing\".\n\nAfter \"Mine and Yours\", Mead delivered a follow-up for RCA, titled \"Wherever You Are\". But it was made under a proverbial dark cloud, after an A & R person for the label proclaimed at the recording's commencement dinner that, given sales of his first two albums, it was a \"miracle\" that a third was being recorded at all. Mead soon departed from the label, and in between road gigs, started an EP with Nashville producer David Henry (Matthew Ryan, Guster). It soon blossomed into the full-length \"Indiana\". Featuring some of Mead's best-loved songs, such as the title track, \"Nashville\" and \"Beauty,\" it remains his most-recognized and critically acclaimed album (\"A knack for telling stories via catchy, concise pop ditties\" said \"No Depression\") to date. It was released June 7, 2004 on Nettwerk Records.\n\nThe third album, recorded August 2002 at Bearsville Studios in Woodstock, NY and Real World Studios in Bath, England, and mixed by Tchad Blake, finally emerged as a six-song EP on June 28, 2005 (). \"I got the album back when I left the label but felt, after releasing Indiana that the full package was confusing and not indicative of where I was going musically anymore so I tried to frame the songs as more a lost piece of time,\" Mead says. PopMatters raved, \"Mature songs that express genuine warmth and emotional intelligence.\"\n\nIn 2005, Mead married artist Natalie Cox, and this album found him coming to terms with both domesticity and the quirks and eccentricities of being in his thirties. \"I wanted to make a super expansive pop album in the tradition of XTC's Skylarking and Elvis Costello's Spike\", Mead said. Produced by Brad Jones (Jill Sobule, Butterfly Boucher), it includes the songs \"Chatterbox\" and \"Hunting Season\". It was released May 16, 2006, on Tallulah! Media. \"Paste\" called it \"dazzling\" and it was voted best Pop/Rock album in the 2006 Independent Music Awards.\n\nIn 2008, after a divorce, Mead moved from Brooklyn back to Nashville. Reteaming with Brad Jones at Alex The Great studio he recorded this intimate collection in seven days, most of it live. The majority of the album was co-written with Bill DeMain of Swan Dive. Originally, Mead and DeMain had conceived the project for an imaginary chanteuse. Lead track \"Last Train Home\" was an NPR Song Of The Day, and featured on episodes of TV's \"Private Practice\". Mead and DeMain also co-wrote a second, as-yet-unreleased album, \"1908 Division\", a conceptual suite about the denizens of an apartment building where Mead once resided.\n\nIn late 2010, Mead enlisted the financial support of his fans via Kickstarter to raise funds ($20,925) for a new album, \"Dudes\". As the title implies, the songs are all written from the perspective of men. Recorded in nine days in NYC and produced by Ethan Eubanks and Mead (executive produced by Adam Schlesinger), it deepens Mead's songwriting with strains of Randy Newman-esque wry humor (\"Bocce Ball\") and sharp storytelling (\"The Smile Of Rachael Ray\"). The release date was November 15, 2011.\n\nOn January 25, 2019, Mead sent an email to every address on his website's mailing list to announce the release of his seventh studio album. \"When it came time to figure how to release COBRA PUMPS,\" he wrote, \"I needed money and, out of habit, approached a few different music business people for help. After a few slightly bizarre meetings in which algorithmically-induced metrics and social media compliance were discussed with a ferocity once reserved for killer hooks and Led Zeppelin, I deduced that I simply don't fit into the industry anymore, if I ever did. It now requires very different skill sets than the ones I have spent my life attempting to master. And that is OK with me.\" Mead elaborated that he would be emailing links to his new album's ten tracks, as well as demos and other content, over the next ten days. \"Cobra Pumps\" became available for purchase on iTunes on January 29, and on CD and vinyl at Mead's website several days later.\n\nIn recent years, Mead has been involved in two high- profile side projects. In 2009, he founded Elle Macho, a power trio with Aussie singer-songwriter Butterfly Boucher and drummer Lindsay Jamieson (Ben Folds, Brendan Benson). Their zany videos and high-energy live shows have made them a Nashville favorite, and a full-length debut album is expected in late 2011.\n\nMead also formed Davey Ukulele & The Gag Time Gang. Nashville Scene said: \"Sounding like a cross between \"Whip It\"-era Devo and the pop pastiches on Phineas & Ferb, this merry kids' band actually camouflages a genuine supergroup: the tag team of David Mead, Swan Dive's Bill DeMain, Brother Henry's David Henry and The Mavericks' Paul Deakin.\" Their debut, The Adventures Of Davey Ukulele & The Gag Time Gang, was released in 2010. A follow-up is expected in 2012.\n\nSeveral times a year, Mead travels to Key West, Florida to perform in a cover band called Phanni Pac (with Jason White, Scotty Huff and Paul Deakin) at the Hog's Breath Saloon.\n\nHe has also been a regular guest singer with Nashville's popular 1980s-era cover band Guilty Pleasures.\n\n\"David Mead is one of my favorite singer-songwriters.\" –John Mayer\n\n\"I have 'Nashville' by David Mead stuck in my head.\" –a tweet by Taylor Swift\n\n\"Apart from being such a great songwriter, he's probably the best singer in America.\" –Adam Schlesinger of Fountains of Wayne\n\n\"A major tunesmith.\" –\"Mojo\"\n\n\"One of the best solo crooners since Jeff Buckley.\" –\"Paste\"\n\n\"Rich melodies...a keen sense of pop music history, from Paul McCartney to Squeeze to Crowded House.\" –\"Nylon\"\n\n\"A clear-voiced tunesmith ... he scores with sweet melodies ...\" –\"Entertainment Weekly\"\n\n\"Mead makes blue-collar rock of the most delicate kind, his soaring but unshowy falsetto and luscious harmonies far above the ordinary.\" –\"Uncut\"\n\n\n\"World of a King,\" in \"Boys and Girls\" (Miramar) and \"In Search of John Gissing\" (Sunlight Productions)\n\n\"Everyone Knows It But You,\" in \"Restaurant\" (York Entertainment)\n\n\"Girl on the Roof,\" in \"The Sweetest Thing\" (Columbia Pictures), \"National Lampoon's Van Wilder\" (Lionsgate), and \"The Future Diary\", a pilot not picked up by ABC\n\n\"Only in the Movies,\" in \"Ed\" (NBC)\n\n\"Standing Here in Front of Me,\" in \"The Bold and the Beautiful\" (CBS)\n\n\"Beauty,\" in \"The Days\" (ABC)\n\n\"Only Living Boy in New York,\" in \"Everwood\" (WB)\n\n\"Hallelujah, I Was Wrong,\" in \"Men in Trees\" (ABC)\n\n\"Last Train Home,\" in \"Private Practice\" (ABC) and \"The Protector\" (Lifetime)\n\n"}
{"id": "1819095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819095", "title": "Berlin Diary", "text": "Berlin Diary\n\nBerlin Diary (\"The Journal of a Foreign Correspondent 1934–1941\") is a first-hand account of the rise of Nazi Germany and its road to war, as witnessed by the American journalist William L. Shirer. Shirer covered Germany for several years as a radio reporter for CBS. Feeling increasingly uncomfortable as the Nazi press censors made it impossible for him to report objectively to his listeners in the United States, Shirer eventually left the country. The identities of many of Shirer's German sources were disguised to protect these people from retaliation by the German secret police, the Gestapo. It provided much of the material for his subsequent landmark book \"The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich\".\n\nThe book was published in New York by Alfred A. Knopf on June 20, 1941, almost six months before Germany declared war on the United States, and simultaneously in Canada by Ryerson Press, when Canada was already at war with Germany. It was \"the first attempt by a big-name American journalist to shed light on what was really happening in Nazi Germany\" and sold almost 600,000 copies in the first year of its publication. The book was widely praised by academics and critics at the time of its publication.\nA recent literary study comparing the original diary in Shirer's literary estate with the published text revealed that Shirer made substantial changes, such as revising his early favourable impressions of Hitler. Much of the text about the period before the war (1934 to 1938) was written retroactively.\n\nIn 1947, End of a Berlin Diary continued the story of the Third Reich, from July 20, 1944, to the Nuremberg Trials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819096", "title": "List of military conflicts spanning multiple wars", "text": "List of military conflicts spanning multiple wars\n\nEarly histories of a war typically describe the war as it was declared by the states involved. It is not uncommon for later historians to group together a series of wars over a long period or spread over several theaters as part of a broader conflict or strategic campaign. The most familiar of these in the present day is probably the Cold War and the War on Terror, which included the Korean War (1950–1953) (Cold War), the Vietnam War (1965–1973) (Cold War), the Persian Gulf War (1990–1991) (Cold War), the War in Afghanistan (2001–2016) (War on Terror), and the Iraq War (2003–2011) (War on Terror) to name these five wars during the Cold War and the War on Terror. These groupings provide useful context for the wars involved. Note that some groupings overlap time periods and its possible for more than one war to be going on at the same time.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819097", "title": "Eureka Valley, San Francisco", "text": "Eureka Valley, San Francisco\n\nEureka Valley is a neighborhood in San Francisco, primarily a quiet residential neighborhood but boasting one of the most visited sub-neighborhoods in the city, The Castro.\n\nThe neighborhood is popular with families and the LGBT community. The rainbow flag, signifying LGBT pride, can be seen displayed throughout the area. It was initially a working-class Irish neighborhood until a combination of factory jobs loss and the migration of gays into The Castro radically changed the neighborhood in the 1960s. In 1977, this district elected the first openly gay politician—Harvey Milk—to public office (San Francisco Board of Supervisors).\n\nThe only official definition of neighborhoods in San Francisco is by the city's Planning Department, which defines, a larger \"Castro/Upper Market\" neighborhood.\n\nThe definition of Eureka Valley by the Castro/Eureka Valley Neighbors Association as well as a 2007 Planning Department study is: \n\nwith Noe Valley to the south and Mission District to the east.\n\nIt encompasses several micro neighborhoods including The Castro and Duboce Triangle. Neighborhood associations defining sub-neighborhoods within Eureka Valley are: 19th Street (Noe to Sanchez), Buena Vista (BVNA), Corbett Heights, Corona Heights, Dolores Heights (DHIC), Duboce Triangle (DTNA), Hartford Street for Hartford (17th to 18th), and Mission Dolores.\n\nIn 1845 José de Jesús Noé was granted Rancho San Miguel, four thousand acres (16 km²) stretching from Twin Peaks into Noe and Eureka valleys. In 1854 John M. Horner purchased the ranch and laid out Horner's Addition in a grid bounded by Castro Street on the west, Valencia Street on the east, 18th Street on the north and 30th Street on the south. Eureka Valley was part of the Mission Dolores subdivision but was not developed until the 1890s and the early 1900s.\n\nThe opening of the Market & Castro Street Cable Car line in 1886 opened Eureka Valley to development — primarily small wood-frame cottages and two-story flats. The only industry in the area was a mattress factory on the block bounded by Market, Dolores, and Fifteenth streets.\n\nMost residents were working and lower-middle-class tradesmen, small business owners, civil servants, builders, and artisans, with Irish, German, British, and Scandinavian immigrants, as well as some old-stock Americans living in the neighborhood.\n\nEureka Valley escaped destruction in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake and subsequent fire, mostly because the fires were stopped at Dolores Street. After the 1906 earthquake, thousands of earthquake refugees began purchasing lots and erecting cottages and flats in the area. The momentum continued after the completion of Twin Peaks Tunnel in 1918 and the Municipal Railway's J Church streetcar line in 1917.\n\nThe Eureka Valley Improvement Association, founded on September 3, 1905, successfully lobbied the city's Board of Supervisors for many early improvements in the neighborhood, such as improved streetcar service, better lighting, and public school construction. The association was instrumental in preventing the spread of the fires after the 1906 earthquake.\n\nThe Eureka Valley branch of the San Francisco Public Library opened in 1902 at the corner of Noe and Seventeenth streets. The original building, damaged in the 1957 Daly City earthquake, was replaced by the current structure in 1962, and refurbished in 2009.\n\nThe commercial area of Eureka Valley, centered on the intersection of 18th Street and Castro Street, was transformed in the 1970s with the development of the gay community known as \"The Castro.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1819098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819098", "title": "Eureka Valley (Inyo County)", "text": "Eureka Valley (Inyo County)\n\nEureka Valley is located in Inyo County, in eastern California in the southwestern United States. It is approximately 28 miles (45 km) long and up to 10 miles (16 km) wide, with elevations varying from 2870 feet (875 m) up to 8456 feet (2575 m). The southern section of the valley is now part of the Death Valley National Park - Death Valley itself lies just to the southeast. To the north is Deep Springs Valley, Fish Lake Valley, and the White Mountain Range. To the east the Last Chance Range rises over 5500 feet (1675 m) above the valley floor. To the west are the Saline Mountains, and to the southwest lies Saline Valley.\n\nEureka Valley is a graben, like most other lower-lying areas of the Basin and Range Province. An improved gravel road crosses the valley, connecting the community of Big Pine to the northern Grapevine section of Death Valley. A 10-mile gravel road provides access to the southern end of the valley. More primitive routes exit the valley to the northwest via Soldier Pass, to the northeast via Horse Thief Pass, and to the south via Dedeckera Canyon.\n\nThe valley has two distinguishing features. Its shape alters the wind in such a way as to collect sand near its southern end, leading to the unique Eureka Dunes. Just to the east of the dunes, the Last Chance Range climbs over 3500 feet (1070 m) as near-vertical cliffs, displaying colorful rock strata.\n\nThe Eureka Valley Sand Dunes are located in the southern part of Eureka Valley. Although covering an area of only 3 square miles (8 km), the dunes rise approximately 680 feet (207 m) above the surrounding valley floor, making them one of the highest dune fields in North America. Eureka Valley is a basin and range structural valley oriented northwest-southeast and enclosed by the Last Chance Range to the east and the Saline Range to the west. The Eureka Dunes themselves are located in the southeastern most tip of the valley and trend north-south, parallel to Last Chance Range. According to a USGS survey map, the surrounding mountain ranges contain rocks that date back to the Mississippian and Cambrian periods while the surficial deposits on the valley floor are made up mainly of alluvium dating to the Quaternary period. They are also classified as booming sand dunes, one of only about forty worldwide.\nAccessed via a gravel road in Eureka Valley (which connects to a road running from Big Pine to the Grapevine section of Death Valley), the dunes became part of the Death Valley National Park as part of its expansion in 1994. Foot travel in the dunes is permitted, but vehicle access is prohibited. A primitive campground is located at the north end of the dune field.\n\nSand dunes also exist in Death Valley near Stovepipe Wells. The Eureka Dunes share regional characteristics with the Kelso Dunes in the Mojave Desert.\n\nThe Eureka Dunes are an example of a complex-linear dune – the main ridge is a static linear dune but there are active star dunes formations superimposed on the linear dune A linear dune has alternating slip faces on opposite sides of the crest. This means that both sides of the dune have similar slopes and wind must have come from both the northern and southern ends of the valley. Star dunes have \"arms\" radiating off of a central crest that change direction as the wind direction changes. Little is known about the past of the Eureka Dunes and its development. The sand source is unknown, although some scientists believed that it originated from an ancient lake at the northern end of the valley.\n\nThe unique booming characteristic of the Eureka Dunes is caused by the relative motion of moving sand grains. The sound has been compared to moans, hums, drums, and, in the case of Eureka, a distant propeller plane. Most researchers agree that the average sand grain size should be smaller than 300 μm, well-sorted with no dusty material, dry and in low humidity, loosely packed, and each sand grain should be spherical and smooth The booming sound occurs when a sheet of sand avalanches down the slip face, exciting the sand grains. The friction between these grains creates an acoustic air wave that emits an audible sound.\n\nThe Eureka Dunes are the home of several unique (and protected) plant species. The Eureka Dune Grass \"(Swallenia alexandrae)\", the Eureka Evening Primrose \"(Oenothera californica eurekensis)\", and the Shining Locoweed \"(Astragalus lentiginosus micans)\" are only found in this area. Visitors to the dunes may also experience other unique aspects of these dunes, other than the booming. In wet weather, patterns can be seen in the sand that reveals the diverse sources, and the complex Aeolian process by which these dunes are formed (and re-formed- sources and processes that are not yet fully understood.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819106", "title": "Altan Tobchi", "text": "Altan Tobchi\n\nThe Altan Tobchi, or \"Golden Summary\" (Mongolian script: '; Mongolian Cyrillic: , '), is a 17th-century Mongolian chronicle written by Guush Luvsandanzan. Its full title is Herein is contained the Golden Summary of the Principles of Statecraft as established by the Ancient Khans. Mongolian scholars typically call the work the \"Lu Altan Tovch\". It is generally considered second in dignity to the \"Secret History of the Mongols\" as a historical chronicle and piece of classical literature. In fact, the work is special in that it contains 233 of the 282 chapters of the \"Secret History\" not only verbatim but with additional detail in certain parts. It is also significant in that it is a major source of knowledge on the \"Chingisiin Bilig\" or Wisdom of Genghis, a code of ethical conduct specifically directed toward future generations of Mongolian ruling nobility. Duke Jamiyan discovered and brought the original pen copy of the Altan Tobchi to Ulaanbaatar in 1926 from a Taiji (Genghisid prince) called Dari living in Dornod Province, Mongolia. It was studied in depth by Jamsrangiin Tseveen and Byambyn Rinchen, and was translated into English by Charles Bawden in 1955. It is one of the most frequently quoted sources in Mongolian publications.\n\nThe Altan Tobchi is composed of three major sections that differ significantly from each other, but nonetheless woven into a whole in order to meet Luvsandanzan's purpose of providing a summary of Mongolian state ideology at that time. It begins with a mythological genealogy of the descent of Borte Chino, the ancestor of Genghis Khan, from King Mahasammadi of India and various Tibetan kings. This first section is a pious Buddhist attempt to link the Mongol state with the legendary Chakravarti kings. In the next major section the chronicle follows with the 233 chapters of the Secret History interspersed with additional materials that add to the Altan Tobchi's particular value. It is within this second major section that the 13th-14th century work called the \"Wise Debate of an Orphan Boy with the Nine Generals of Genghis\" is added. Also within the second section, following the Wise Debate of the Orphan Boy, is another independent work dealing with Genghis Khan's conversations with his Nine Generals which is itself followed by an entire section containing the \"Wisdom of Genghis\". The second major section ends with the chapters of the Secret History dealing with the last deeds and passing away of Genghis Khan. The third and last section of the Altan Tobchi includes a very brief chronicle of the Yuan dynasty followed by a somewhat detailed account of the Northern Yuan dynasty till its fall with the death of Ligdan Khan in 1634. The third section is followed by a brief summary of the Golden Summary, a statement of the author's identity and an eloquent prayer directed to the \"spirits of the Khans descended from mighty Tengri\".\n\nTaken as a whole the Altan Tobchi is not a religious text, either of Tibetan Buddhism or of the well-developed shamanic Cult of Genghis Khan. It is largely secular and deals with affairs of the state. The Buddhist introduction is irrelevant to the main thrust of the work. It is not a set of laws, although decrees of Genghis Khan are included in the Secret History section. Examples of codified nomadic law exist separately and include the Code of Altan Khan (c. 1577), and the Parchment Laws of the Khalkha (1570s-1639). It is not a simple king list from the legendary Chakravarti kings to Ligdan Khan. Although the title says it deals with \"statecraft\", the work is not political philosophy nor a treatise concerned with the machinations of the legislative, executive and judicial functions of the state. It does not treat of any state policy in detail (e.g. the relay post system or military strategy). Rather the work is clearly designed to be a manual of ethics for the Mongolian nobility with special emphasis on preserving the unity of the state. The work is essentially didactic and instructional in nature. Its code of conduct is loosely analogous to the Way of the Samurai and chivalry. Although the near entirety of the ethical code contained in the Altan Tobchi is authentically Mongolian or nomadic and thus derives from the sayings of Genghis Khan or nomadic tradition, there are also a few quotations here and there taken from Indian ethical works and Yuan dynasty Tibetan-inspired state ideology (i.e. the Teaching of the Two Orders, of Kublai Khan).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819108", "title": "Irene Parlby", "text": "Irene Parlby\n\nMary Irene Parlby (née Marryat; 9 January 186812 July 1965) was a Canadian women's farm leader, activist and politician.\n\nBorn in London, England to Col. and Mrs. E.L. Marryat. Parlby came to Canada in 1896. In 1913, Parlby helped to found the first women's local of the United Farmers of Alberta. In 1921, she was elected to the Alberta Legislature for the riding of Lacombe, holding the riding for 14 years. Appointed as minister without portfolio, she was the first woman Cabinet minister in Alberta.\n\nParlby was one of the Famous Five or Valiant Five, who by means of a court battle known as the Persons Case established that women were \"qualified Persons\" in the meaning of the Constitution of Canada and therefore entitled to sit in the Senate of Canada. Like others of the famous five, however, Parlby was an advocate for the eugenics movement in Alberta including the \"Sexual Sterilization Act\" and the sexual sterilization of the mentally infirm.\n\nA lifelong advocate for rural Canadian women and children, Parlby was president of the United Farm Women of Alberta from 1916 to 1919. On behalf of the UFWA, she pushed to improve public health care services and establish municipal hospitals as well as mobile medical and dental clinics. In 1921, Parlby was elected to the provincial legislature and made a cabinet minister (the second woman in Canada to hold a provincial cabinet post).\n\nShe was once quoted saying: \"...and what when we die? Should women go back to the state they once belonged to. No, they should rather take arms against it, and fight for acknowledgment, not uniformity.\" Here she fought for acceptance rather than equality to the male gender.\n\nShe was the last surviving member of the Famous Five.\n\nAmong other honours, in October 2009, the Senate voted to name Parlby and the rest of the Five Canada's first \"honorary senators.\" Irene Parlby was recently awarded a mural in her honour in Edmonton, Alberta.\n\nThe 1966, Irene Parlby was recognized as a Person of National Historic Significance by the government of Canada. A plaque commemorating this is found in Alix, Alberta. The \"Person's case\" was recognized as a National Historic Event.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819112", "title": "The Miracle of Kathy Miller", "text": "The Miracle of Kathy Miller\n\nThe Miracle of Kathy Miller is a 1981 American made-for-television drama film based on the real-life story of a Scottsdale, Arizona teenager who was critically injured in a 1977 car accident. Helen Hunt, in an early starring role, plays the title part; Frank Converse and Sharon Gless are cast as Kathy's parents. Kathy, a high school track and field athlete, overcame the severe mental and physical injury to compete in and finish a long-distance race (shown at the climax of the film). The distributor was Universal TV.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819125", "title": "Donald Mackay (anti-drugs campaigner)", "text": "Donald Mackay (anti-drugs campaigner)\n\nDonald Bruce Mackay (13 September 1933 – 15 July 1977) was an Australian businessman. He was also a prominent substance abuse campaigner who came to media attention and fame in 1977 through the circumstances of his murder, which has never been solved.\n\nDonald Mackay was born in Griffith and raised in Sydney. His wife Barbara (1935–2001) was an active member of the Uniting Church in Griffith and was a part-time physiotherapist. The couple had four children: Paul, Ruth, Mary, and James. \n\nHe and his family ran a furniture business in Griffith called Mackay's Furniture. Today, the Mackay family still has a property in Griffith, but the family furniture store is no longer owned by Paul Mackay, as it was sold in July 2019.\n\nIn 1974, Mackay stood as a Liberal Party candidate for the House of Representatives against Al Grassby in the electorate of Riverina. His preferences went to the Country Party candidate John Sullivan, allowing Sullivan to unseat Grassby. Mackay also stood for the Liberal Party in the state seat of Murrumbidgee at the 1973 and 1976 New South Wales state elections, but was unsuccessful.\n\nConcerned about the growing drug trade in his local area, and learning of a large crop of marijuana in nearby Coleambally, Mackay informed Sydney drug squad detectives, resulting in several arrests and the conviction of four men of Italian descent. At the trial of the arrested men, Mackay was identified as the whistleblower.\n\nAn attempt was made to lure Mackay to Jerilderie by a \"Mr Adams\" who wished to make a large order of furniture from Mackay's family business. Mackay, busy with other matters, sent employee Bruce Pursehouse to meet \"Adams\", who did not approach Pursehouse. This is believed to have been an attempt to assassinate Mackay. Pursehouse later identified a man he had seen at Jerilderie as a suspect in the Mackay killing.\n\nOn 15 July 1977, Mackay disappeared from a hotel car park after having drinks with friends and has never been found. Stains from his blood group were evident on his van and the ground nearby, and his car keys were underneath the van. Nearby were drag marks, hair, and three spent .22 calibre cases.\n\nThe Woodward Royal Commission found that the six prime suspects to the murder all had convenient alibis. On the night of the murder, Tony Sergi and Domenic Sergi, nominated as principal suspects by the Commission, were on a \"pub crawl\" in Griffith with a number of police officers; Giuseppe Barbaro and Rocco Barbaro went to Sydney and, then, the Gold Coast, not returning to Griffith until 20 July; Francesco Barbaro, brother-in-law of Tony Sergi and cousin of Saverio Barbaro (who had been arrested three months earlier for marijuana production), stayed at the Griffith Ex-Servicemen's Club; and Robert Trimbole was at Randwick, Sydney, at a restaurant.\n\nMackay's disappearance made headlines around the nation and many, such as Griffith supervisor of detectives James Bindon, drew the conclusion that Trimbole was responsible for the apparent contract-style killing. Trimbole had previously made death threats against Mackay. The killing fuelled the perception of Griffith as full of mobsters and \"Australia's marijuana capital\".\n\nThe Mackay case led to the then-premier Neville Wran appointing Justice Philip Woodward to lead the Woodward Royal Commission into the illegal drug trade in New South Wales. In 1979, Woodward found that Mackay had been murdered by a hitman acting on instructions from the \"Honoured Society\", a Griffith-based cell of the 'Ndrangheta, a Calabrian criminal organisation.\n\nJustice Woodward, in his final report, concluded that the members of this organisation involved in Mackay's murder were Francesco Sergi (born 24 January 1935), Domenic Sergi (born 3 March 1939), Antonio Sergi (born 4 February 1950), Antonio Sergi (born 29 October 1935), Francesco Barbaro (born 8 September 1937) and Robert Trimbole (born 19 March 1931). Justice Woodward requested for police to search Griffith's \"grass castles\" but this was denied.\n\nIn 1980, Al Grassby was charged with criminal defamation when it was alleged that he had asked New South Wales state politician Michael Maher to read in the New South Wales Legislative Assembly a document that imputed Mackay's wife Barbara and her family solicitor were responsible for Mackay's disappearance. An inquiry by John Nagle Q.C. found that \"no decent man\" could have spread the \"scurrilous lies\" that Grassby had. Grassby maintained his innocence and fought a 12-year battle in the courts before he was eventually acquitted on appeal in August 1992 and was awarded A$180,000 in costs. Grassby had already lost a civil suit filed by Barbara Mackay, forcing him to unconditionally apologise.\n\nIn 1984, the coroner ruled Mackay had died of \"wilfully inflicted gunshot wounds\".\n\nIn 1986, hitman James Frederick Bazley was charged over the death. Bazley claimed he was innocent, blaming allegedly corrupt former Sydney detective Fred Krahe as the killer, but was convicted of conspiring with Gianfranco Tizzone, Robert Trimbole, George Joseph and unknown other persons to murder Mackay, as well as the murders of drug couriers Douglas and Isabel Wilson. He was sentenced to life imprisonment.\n\nGianfranco Tizzoni, who turned informer in 1983, admitted to his 'complicity' in Mackay's murder. Specifically, Tizzoni admitted that he arranged for a hitman he knew as 'Fred' to undertake the contract. When shown photographs of possible suspects, Tizzone fingered Bazley as the trigger man.\nIn July 2012, 35 years after his disappearance, the New South Wales police offered a $200,000 reward for information on the whereabouts of Mackay. The reward was considered a last-ditch attempt to gain evidence from reluctant witnesses. In particular those of Bazley, who was 86 in 2012 and unwell. However, in the rare moments he has broken his silence, Bazley denied he was the killer.\n\nThe annual Donald Mackay Churchill Fellowship was inaugurated in 1987. The Churchill Trust awards a Donald Mackay fellowship annually for journalists and detectives to study methods of investigating and bringing to light organised crime.\n\nIn late 2008, the Rotary Club of Griffith erected a memorial in Banna Avenue, the main street of Griffith, to honour the 30th anniversary of Mackay's murder. The statue of Mackay itself is a white marble bust with a plaque inscribed with \"All that is necessary for the triumph of evil is for good men to do nothing. \"\n\nAustralian actor Andrew McFarlane portrayed him in the 2009 television series \"\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819156", "title": "University of Khartoum", "text": "University of Khartoum\n\nUniversity of Khartoum (shortened to UofK) () is a multi-campus, co-educational, public university located in Khartoum. It is the largest and oldest university in Sudan. UofK was founded as Gordon Memorial College in 1902 and established in 1956 when Sudan gained independence. Since that date, the University of Khartoum has been recognized as a top university and a high-ranked academic institution in Sudan and Africa.\nIt features several institutes, academic units and research centers including Mycetoma Research Center, Soba University Hospital, Saad Abualila Hospital, Dr. Salma Dialysis centre, Institute of Endemic Diseases, Institute for Studies and Promotion of Animal Exports, Institute of African and Asian Studies, Institute of Prof. Abdalla ElTayeb for Arabic Language, Development Studies and Research Institute, The Materials and Nanotechnology Research Center and U of K publishing house. The Sudan Library, a section of the university's library, serves as the national library of Sudan.\n\nIn 1898 after Britain gained dominance in Sudan as part of a condominium arrangement, Lord Kitchener proposed founding a college in the memory of Gordon of Khartoum, who was killed in the Battle of Khartoum. Gordon Memorial College was founded in 1902 with primary education being its sole program.\nBy 1906, the college was offering programs for training assistant engineers, land surveyors and primary school teachers. The first equipped laboratory for bacteriological analysis was added in 1905, with donations from Sir Henry Wellcome, an American-British pharmaceutical entrepreneur and archaeologist.\n\nIn 1924, the college incorporated programs in Sharia, engineering, education (teachers training), clerical work, accounting and science. The Kitchener School of Medicine, the first medical school in Sudan, was established.\n\nIn 1936, the School of Law was established. In 1947, the college was affiliated with The University of London as the first overseas participant in its \"special relationship\" scheme. The first graduates to receive University of London degrees completed their programs in 1950. The next year, Gordon Memorial College was formally renamed University College Khartoum, which incorporated the Kitchener School of Medicine.\n\nWhen Sudan gained independence in 1956, the new Parliament passed a bill to award university status to Khartoum University College. It officially became Khartoum University on 24 July 1956. The eminent horticultural scientist John Pilkington Hudson was a visiting professor in 1961-3, who founded its department of horticulture.\n\nOn 5 April 1984, the Government announced the closure of all faculties of the university. The university was reopened fully on August 1.\n\nThe university was closed several times after the 1989 military coup d'état for the intensive participation of its students in pro-democracy rallies.\n\nThe university has 16,800 undergraduate students in 23 faculties, schools and graduate research institutes. The annual admission rate is 3,500 students, 55% of whom are female. There are 6,000 graduate students (graduate diploma, M.Sc. and Ph.D.). It has 850 teaching staff (faculty), 20 research fellows and 500 teaching assistants.\n\nThere are four campuses:\n\nUndergraduate admission policy is governed by the Board of Higher Education of Sudan, which sets the minimum admission requirement for high school students based on their national origin (Sudanese vs. non-Sudanese) and the high-school certificate board.\n\nFor post-graduate studies, the requirements are on the university admission webpage.\n\nStudents of University of Khartoum engage in workshops, lectures, debates, forum activism, book clubs and political parties. Sporting activities include university sports championship tournaments and Sudan colleges championship tournaments.\n\nFaculty of Public and Environmental Health, University of Khartoum includes the following departments: - (Food Hygiene and Safety - Health Education - Epidemiology - Environmental Health and Environmental Studies). The College awards a Bachelor's degree in Public and Environmental Health in four years. The Bachelor of Science in Public and Environmental Health Honors in five years. Master’s degree in Public and Environmental Health in one of six specialties (Public Health -Food Hygiene and Safety - Health Education - Epidemiology - Environmental Health- Medical Entomology )\nThe Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences was founded in 1966 under the name “School of Medical Laboratory Technicians” as a joint venture between the Faculty of Medicine, University of Khartoum and the Ministry of Health.\nIts development was continued until in 1993 an ordinance was passed for the establishment of the College of Medical Laboratory Sciences an independent institution affiliated to the Ministry of Higher Education and Scientific Research. In 1997, it was merged with the University of Khartoum as the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences (FMLS).\nThe Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences offers preparation for careers in medical (clinical) laboratory sciences. A career in medical laboratory sciences is a great way to combine an aptitude for science with the desire to help others. Medical Laboratory Scientists, also known as clinical laboratory scientists, are highly skilled professionals who perform analytical tests on blood, tissue, and body fluids to provide laboratory information for the detection, diagnosis, and treatment of human diseases. There also is a growing trend for medical lab scientists to perform wellness laboratory testing aimed at preventing disease.\nDegrees Awarded:\nGeneral B.Sc.: 4 years\nHonor B.Sc.: 5 years\nM.S.c: By courses\nM.Sc.: By research\nPhD: By research\nDepartments of the Faculty of Medical Laboratory Sciences:\n\n2.1- Department of Microbiology:\n\nIt is one of the biggest departments in FMLS, it includes the following disciplines: Medical Bacteriology, Medical Virology, Medical Mycology, Immunology.\n\n2.2- Departments of Haematology and Immunohematology:\n\nDeals with all aspects related to blood, its components and related diseases such as anaemia, cancer, and also blood transfusion.\n\n2.3- Department of Parasitology and Medical Entomology:\n\nTeaches the knowledge of pathogenic parasites such as malaria, worms such as Schistosomes and insect vectors of diseases.\n\n2.4- Department of Chemical Pathology:\n\nDeals with everything related to body chemistry including but not limited to chemical shifts in the body due to diseases, hormonal balance, enzymes, trace elements and toxicology.\n\n2.5- Department of Histopathology and Cytology:\n\nFocuses on identifying the composition of cells and tissues of the body and the change in their composition due to chronic cases. Division of the Department: Cytopathology, Histotechniques, Immunohistochemistry, Cytogenetics, Molecular Pathology, Cellular pathology\n\n\nFaculty of Dentistry was established in 1971 as a school that belong to the Faculty of Medicine. It was the first in Sudan to provide dental training. In 1992 it upgraded to a separate faculty. The school now has approximately 60 outstanding faculty and staff and 600 students enrolled in BDS degree programs, 90 postgraduate and 90 dental technology.\n\n\n\nBy the end of 2011, Faculty of Dentistry became the only center in Africa for examinations of the Diploma of Member of Faculty of Dentistry, Royal College of Surgeon in Ireland (NNJ). Part 1 exam is held twice a year and Part 2 is once a year. In all the previous exams, faculty graduate achieved outstanding grades.\n\nFaculty of Dentistry Student have an association through which they can realize a lot of their activities. It is a member in the International Association of Dental Students (IADS). ADSUK organized one of the most successful IADS' conferences in Khartoum in 2006. One of the most programs arranged by ADSUK are the Health Field Trip where students as well as staff member travel to rural areas and stay there to give distant citizens dental services and to educate them.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum plays a leading role in scientific research and development through a number of specialized research centers and institutes:\n\nUniversity of Khartoum Library, known as the \"Main Library,\" is one of the biggest and oldest libraries in universities in Sudan and Africa. The library building represents the historical and iconic heritage of the University of Khartoum. In addition to the Main Library, there are small libraries in each faculty and institute as well as Altegany Almahi library for postgraduate students and Sudan Library.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum has an Information Technology and Communication Center which is responsible for developing and managing of the ICT infrastructure of the university. All university campuses are connected by dedicated high-speed links (fiber optics); WiFi covers most of the campuses and electronic registration on the university website. In addition to the ICT centre, the Faculty of Mathematical Sciences has its own Information Technology research unit which is active in developing and promoting Open Source software in Sudan.\n\n\nSince the independence of Sudan, highly qualified Sudanese were appointed to the position of University of Khartoum vice chancellor. The first one was Dr. Nasr El Hag Ali and the most notable one is Prof. ELnazeer Dafalla.\n\nUniversity of Khartoum plays a great role in building and qualifying most of the Sudanese leaders.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819161", "title": "Wisdom literature", "text": "Wisdom literature\n\nWisdom literature is a genre of literature common in the ancient Near East. It consists of statements by sages and the wise that offer teachings about divinity and virtue. Although this genre uses techniques of traditional oral storytelling, it was disseminated in written form.\n\nThe literary genre of mirrors for princes, which has a long history in Islamic and Western Renaissance literature, is a secular cognate of wisdom literature. In Classical Antiquity, the didactic poetry of Hesiod, particularly his \"Works and Days\", was regarded as a source of knowledge similar to the wisdom literature of Egypt, Babylonia, Israel and India. Pre-Islamic Arabic literature is replete with many poems of wisdom, including the poetry of Zuhayr bin Abī Sūlmā (520–609).\n\nIn ancient Egyptian literature, wisdom literature belonged to the \"sebayt\" (\"teaching\") genre which flourished during the Middle Kingdom of Egypt and became canonical during the New Kingdom. Notable works of this genre include the \"Instructions of Kagemni\", \"The Maxims of Ptahhotep\", the \"Instructions of Amenemhat\", the \"Hermetica\", and the \"Loyalist Teaching\".\n\nThe most famous examples of wisdom literature are found in the Bible.\n\nThe term \"Sapiential Books\" or \"Books of Wisdom\" is used in biblical studies to refer to a subset of the books of the Hebrew Bible in the Septuagint translation. There are seven of these books, namely the books of Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, the Song of Songs (Song of Solomon), the Book of Wisdom and Sirach (Ecclesiasticus). Not all the Psalms are usually regarded as belonging to the Wisdom tradition.\n\nIn Judaism, the Books of Wisdom other than the Wisdom of Solomon and Sirach are regarded as part of the \"Ketuvim\" or \"Writings,\" while Wisdom of Solomon and Sirach are not considered part of the biblical canon. Similarly, in Christianity, Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Song of Songs and Ecclesiastes are included in the Old Testament by all traditions, while Wisdom, and Sirach are regarded in some traditions as deuterocanonical works which are placed in the Apocrypha within the Anglican and Protestant Bible translations.\n\nThe Sapiential Books are in the broad tradition of wisdom literature that was found widely in the Ancient Near East, including many religions other than Judaism.\n\nThe Greek noun \"sophia\" (, ) is the translation of \"wisdom\" in the Greek Septuagint for Hebrew \"Ḥokmot\" (, ). Wisdom is a central topic in the \"Sapiential\" Books, i.e., Proverbs, Psalms, Job, Song of Songs, Ecclesiastes, Book of Wisdom, Wisdom of Sirach, and to some extent Baruch (the last three are Apocryphal / Deuterocanonical books of the Old Testament).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819162", "title": "Voodoo Lady", "text": "Voodoo Lady\n\nThe Voodoo Lady is an EP released by the band Ween in 1994 on Flying Nun Records. It appeared on their 1994 album \"Chocolate and Cheese\".\n\nThe title track is in typical Bayou-style blues format. Chants of \"Boogie boogie boogie\" are pervasive throughout the song. Most of the lyrics describe a woman who supposedly is always \"doing that stuff that you do\", and \"messing me up with your voodoo\". The singer seems to be someone somehow romantically involved with the Voodoo Lady. The song slowly winds down at the end, with a final blast of sound finishing the song.\n\nThe EP's title track also appears on the band's 1994 album \"Chocolate and Cheese\". It is also one of two Ween songs — the other being \"Push th' Little Daisies\" — to chart on Billboard's Modern Rock Tracks, peaking at number 32. The cover art was designed by Gene Ween.\n\n\"Voodoo Lady\" was featured in the following movies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819164", "title": "Mark Watson (Canadian soccer)", "text": "Mark Watson (Canadian soccer)\n\nMark Stewart Watson (born 8 September 1970) is a Canadian former professional soccer player and is currently an assistant coach at Minnesota United FC. A former defender, Watson is the fifth most-capped player in the history of the Canadian national team.\n\nWatson spent 18 years as a professional soccer player. He spent three seasons with Watford FC of the English Championship from 1993–95 and then joined Major League Soccer for its inaugural season in 1996. He split that first MLS season between the New England Revolution and Columbus Crew. Watson returned to MLS in 2001 with D.C. United after stops with the Seattle Sounders, Oxford United and Oldham Athletic.\n\nFor Canada, Watson has appeared 78 times for the 'A' national team during a 14-year span. He has played in four World Cup qualifying campaigns. and on the 2000 CONCACAF Gold Cup side that won the tournament. Watson scored the winning goal for Canada in the semi-final of the 2000 Gold Cup, a match Canada won 1–0 over Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nWatson began his coaching career in 2004 with the Canadian national team system where he held assistant positions with the U-20 and senior squads. Watson served as assistant coach for Canada at the 2004 CONCACAF Men's Olympic Qualification Tournament and was an assistant when the team finished third in the same tournament in 2008. He also spent four seasons on the staff of his former playing club Charleston Battery as an assistant to Mike Anhaeuser from 2006–09, helping lead Charleston to the final of the 2008 Lamar Hunt U.S. Open Cup.\n\nAfter spending several seasons with San Jose Earthquakes as an assistant to his Canadian colleague Frank Yallop, Watson became the club's interim head coach on 7 June 2013 following Yallop's dismissal. Watson's first win as an MLS head coach came on 15 June 2013 against the Colorado Rapids at Dick's Sporting Goods Park. Watson was 11–5–3 during his 19 league games as interim coach, nearly rallying the Earthquakes to an MLS Cup Playoff berth. His mark 1.89 points per game was tops among all coaches after he took over. In addition to his success in MLS, Watson's squad advanced to the 2013-14 CONCACAF Champions League Quarterfinals by winning Group 5. Following these successes, on 30 October 2013 the Earthquakes announced that they had signed Watson to a permanent contract, thereby removing his interim status. After a disappointing season in which the Earthquakes failed to qualify for the playoffs, Watson was dismissed in late 2014.\n\nHe was hired as an assistant coach at Orlando City Soccer Club for their inaugural Major League Soccer season on 10 November 2014.\n\nHe was fired by Orlando City in July 2016.\n\nOn 18 January 2017, he was named assistant coach for Major League Soccer side Minnesota United FC.\n\nCharleston Battery\n\nCanada\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819165", "title": "Carola Dunn", "text": "Carola Dunn\n\nCarola Dunn (born November 14, 1946) is an English-born American writer of regency romances and detective fiction. Dunn attended Friends' School, Saffron Walden, and graduated from the University of Manchester. She has lived in Eugene, Oregon, since 1992. \n\nOf her 59 books (as of 2018), 32 are regency romances, 4 are part of the Cornish Mystery series featuring \"Eleanor Trewynn, a widow who’s retired from international charity work to a village in Cornwall,\" and 23 are part of the Daisy Dalrymple series.\n\nThe Honourable Daisy Dalrymple, a freelance writer, meets and marries Detective Chief Inspector Alec Fletcher of Scotland Yard over the course of several novels in which they work together to solve murder cases. He tries, unsuccessfully, to keep her out of crime investigations because his superiors at the Yard object to her involvement.\n\nMrs Trewynn, an Aikido practitioner, often assists her niece, a member of the local constabulary, in solving various local crimes. While the Dalrymple series is set in the 1920s, the Cornish novels are set in the early 1960s.\n\nAlthough she continues to write Dalrymple novels, Dunn explains her transition from regencies to mysteries and particularly the addition of an older protagonist in the Cornish series with reference to her own age: \"Regencies generally have young heroines—my oldest was 42. Daisy has been in her 20s for 20 books now. I wanted to write about a protagonist nearer my own age.\"\n\n\"\"Cosy mysteries set in England in the 1920s\"\"\nDaisy also appears in short stories:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819167", "title": "Philippe de Gaulle", "text": "Philippe de Gaulle\n\nPhilippe Henri Xavier Antoine de Gaulle (born 28 December 1921) is a retired French admiral and senator. He is the eldest child and only son of General Charles de Gaulle, the first President of the French Fifth Republic, and his wife Yvonne; and is the only one of de Gaulle's three children still living.\n\nDe Gaulle was born in Paris on 28 December 1921, and was baptised on 8 June of the following year in the Church of St. Francis Xavier in the 7th Arrondissement. He was educated at the Collège Stanislas de Paris, where his father had also studied, and subsequently joined the French Navy.\n\nDe Gaulle was named after Philippe Pétain, of whom his father was a great admirer.\n\nA student at the École Navale at the time of the invasion of France in 1940, he did not hear his father's appeal of 18 June, but escaped to the United Kingdom and declared his allegiance to the Free French Naval Forces. During the Second World War he fought in the Channel campaign and in the Battle of the Atlantic. Promoted to sub-lieutenant in 1943, de Gaulle participated in the Battle of France (1944–1945) as a platoon commander of the Régiment Blindé de Fusiliers-Marins, an armored regiment of marines of the 2nd Armoured Division. On 25 August 1944 he participated in the liberation of Paris and was sent from the Montparnasse Station to carry the order to obtain the surrender of the Germans entrenched at the Palais Bourbon in the premises of the National Assembly. Risking being shot if things went wrong, he negotiated among them, alone and unarmed. He fought in the Vosges during the winter of 1944–1945.\n\nDe Gaulle was promoted to lieutenant in 1948, and received in 1952 the command of the naval \"flottille\" 6F. He was promoted to corvette captain (lieutenant-commander) in 1956 and to frigate captain (commander) in 1961, commanding the fast frigate (\"Escorteur Rapide\") \"Le Picard\" (1960–1961). He pursued a military career in the navy as a naval aviation pilot and was made naval aviation commander of the Paris Region (1964–1966). Promoted to \"capitaine de vaisseau\" rank in 1966, he commanded the missile-launching frigate \"Suffren\" from 1967 to 1968. \n\nIn 1971 he was promoted to rear-admiral (\"contre-amiral\"), becoming commander of the naval group of test and measurement (\"GROUPEM\") (1973–1974) where he hoisted his flag on the Missile Range Instrumentation and Command and Control ship \"Henri Poincaré\". He was then commander of aviation maritime patrol (ALPATMAR) from 1974 to 1975 and was promoted to vice-admiral (\"vice-amiral\") in 1975. From 1976 to 1977 he was Commander of the Atlantic Fleet and was elevated to squadron vice-admiral (\"vice-amiral d'escadre\") in 1977. \n\nPromoted to admiral in 1980, he finished his military career as Inspector General of the Navy, retiring in 1982.\n\nFrom 1986 to 2004 (reelected in 1995), de Gaulle served as a senator from Paris in the RPR and UMP. Near the end of the 1960s, a \"legitimist\" Gaullist party led by Joseph Bozzi advocated de Gaulle as the only \"legitimate heir\" of Gaullism. De Gaulle's influence, however, remained very low.\n\nOn 30 December 1947 de Gaulle married Henriette de Montalembert Cers (born 1929), a descendant of the family of the Marquis de Montalembert. The marriage was blessed by Admiral Georges Thierry d'Argenlieu, one of the commanders of the Free French Naval Forces during the war. The couple had four sons:\n\n\n\nCharles never appointed his son a Companion of the Liberation, probably to avoid being open to possible accusations of nepotism. Yet, in the opinion of some Gaullists and companions, Philippe would not have been undeserving of this honour, given his immediate engagement in Free France and his service in the army for five years, often at the forefront. Nor did Philippe's father award his son the medal of the Resistance.\n"}
{"id": "1819193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819193", "title": "Mount Buninyong", "text": "Mount Buninyong\n\nMount Buninyong is an extinct volcano in western Victoria, Australia rising to . It lies within the Mount Buninyong Scenic Reserve, north of the town of Buninyong and south of Ballarat, on the regional city's rural-urban fringe.\n\nThe mountain was originally named Mount Bonan Yowing, which is said to derive from an Aboriginal word meaning 'a man lying on his back with his knee raised'. It was from its peak that Thomas Learmonth and a group of squatters first viewed in 1837 what would become the Ballarat district. It is one of the more recognizable landmarks in the entire Goldfields region.\n\nMount Buninyong is located on crown land. Much of it is a public reserve with a substantial native forest that is a major koala habitat. It is an important piece of regional infrastructure as a site for multiple communications antenna for radio and television broadcasting. It is home to picnic areas and the observation tower at its summit is a local tourist destination.\n\nMuch of the mountain was cleared for agriculture or housing, but widespread protests during the 1980s led to the preservation of native forest cover on much of the upper portion.\n\nTotal annual rainfall for the Mount Buninyong area is . During the colder months growing conditions are restricted. Severe frosts and snow fall occur during winter.\n\nThe soils of the mount are very fertile and the high permeability and available water capacity makes these soils very favourable for agriculture.\n\nThe Keyeet balug clan of the Wada Wurrung (or Wathaurong) tribe occupied the Mount Buninyong area. An aboriginal burial site was located in the 1860s and more recently stone tools have been found. Mount Buninyong is seen as a significant site for the recognition of the ongoing connection of Aboriginal people with the land through creation stories and cultural sites and is an ideal site for interpreting Aboriginal cultural history. There have been no records of Aboriginal archaeological sites for Mount Buninyong. There is no evidence that the area has been surveyed. Aboriginal Affairs Victoria has recommended that a survey should take place.\n\nMount Buninyong was an important navigation peak for the early colonisers heading west for pastoral occupation. Springs at the base of the mount were important sites for early settlement. Pound Creek Spring has remained as a public Water Reserve.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819210", "title": "Erdeniin Tobchi", "text": "Erdeniin Tobchi\n\nThe Erdeniin Tobchi (, , \"summary of the Khans' treasure\") is a national chronicle and set of Mongolian judicial laws over historical content in the 17th century. It was written in 1662.\n\nThe \"Erdeniin Tobchi\" is commonly called The Chronicles of Sagang Sechen. A first translation into a western language (German) was published by the Moravian missionary Isaac Jacob Schmidt in 1829. The English translation by John Krueger is called \"The Bejeweled Summary of the Origin of the Khan: A History of the Eastern Mongols to 1662\".\n\nIt is generally regarded by nearly all modern Mongolists as a primary source of accurate Mongol history. The names in this work are reputed to be uncorrupted.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819226", "title": "Fox grape", "text": "Fox grape\n\nFox grape is a common name which may refer to any of the following species of grapevine:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819227", "title": "Jacob van Loo", "text": "Jacob van Loo\n\nJacob van Loo (1614 – 26 November 1670) was a painter of the Dutch Golden Age, chiefly active in Amsterdam and, after 1660, in Paris. Van Loo is known for his conversational groupings; particularly his mythological and biblical scenes generally attributed to the genre of History painting. He was especially celebrated for the quality of his nudes to the extent that, during his lifetime, particularly his female figures were said to have been considered superior and more popular than those of his Amsterdam contemporary and competitor Rembrandt. In 1663, three years after fleeing to Paris, Jacob van Loo was accepted into the Académie royale de peinture et de sculpture.\n\nThough his father also painted, Jacob's success ensured that he would forever be referred to as the founder of the Van Loo family of painters; a dynasty which was influential in French and European painting from the 17th to the beginning of the 19th century.\n\nVan Loo was born in Sluis, a town in the Dutch Republic. Some sources have speculated that his father, Jan van Loo, may have been a notary, but more often his father is described as a painter from whom Jacob van Loo received his early training. Little is known of van Loo's early history due to the destruction of the city archives in Sluis during World War II. His early influences are said to have included Thomas de Keyser and Jacob Adriaensz Backer.\n\nIn 1635, van Loo moved to Amsterdam, In 1642 he married Anna Lengele, the sister of the painter Martinus Lengele (1604–1668). The couple had six children, including the painters Jean van Loo and his better known brother Louis-Abraham van Loo. Their grandsons, Jean-Baptiste van Loo and Charles-André van Loo were among the most famous French painters of the 18th century. They lived on Rozengracht in the Jordaan district of Amsterdam.\n\nIn Amsterdam, van Loo found himself at the centre of an active and competitive circle of artists, which included Rembrandt, Frans Hals and Bartholomeus van der Helst. Around 1640 Eglon van der Neer entered his studio as an apprentice and remained his student for a decade. In 1652 van Loo bought himself citizenship (\"burgerrecht\") of the city of Amsterdam. It was speculated that he did so in the hope of being commissioned to help decorate the newly constructed town hall. In 1654, a poem by Jan Vos counted van Loo among the most significant of Dutch painters, alongside Rembrandt and van der Helst.\n\nThe greater part of van Loo's oeuvre was done in the Baroque style that had originated in Rome and had been popularised throughout Europe. He is often referred to as a major influence on Johannes Vermeer, evidence of which can be seen by comparing Vermeer's painting of \"Diana and Her Companions\" with van Loo's 1648 version of the same subject (not the 1654 version of \"Diana and her nymphs\" often used to dispute the claim of direct influence.)\n\nVan Loo painted many portraits. Among his subjects were Johan Huydecoper van Maarseveen; his sister, Leonara Huydecoper, who was married to Jan J. Hinlopen; Joan Ortt, who was later involved with Antoinette Bourignon; and his wife Lucretia Boudaen.\n\nIn 1660, van Loo fled from Amsterdam after fatally stabbing someone during an altercation at an inn. He was sentenced to death \"in absentia\" which forever prevented his return to the Dutch Republic. Van Loo settled in Paris, where, in 1663, he was admitted to the \"Académie de peinture et de sculpture\". He died in Paris in 1670, three years after the van Loo family were naturalised as French citizens.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819242", "title": "Mycetoma Research Center", "text": "Mycetoma Research Center\n\nThe Mycetoma Research Center was established in 1991 under the umbrella of the University of Khartoum. It was set up at Soba University Hospital to provide medical care for mycetoma patients, research and education and teaching in the various aspects of mycetoma.\n\nMycetoma is a common health problem, endemic in many tropical and subtropical regions and reported throughout the globe.\n\nThe staff members are of medical, health and science backgrounds; they are interested in all facets related to Mycetoma and have good track records in patients’ management, teaching, research and community development. Through clinical and basic research, the staff of the center has continually explored new approaches to patients’ management.\n\nThe research programmes and projects carried out in the Center are of a multidisciplinary approach focusing on basic research into the causes and progression of Mycetoma, the translation of new knowledge and technology into novel treatments and the provision of patient care.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819254", "title": "House rule", "text": "House rule\n\nHouse rules are unofficial modifications to official game rules adopted by individual groups of players. House rules may include the removal or alteration of existing rules, or the addition of new rules. Such modifications are common in board games such as \"Monopoly\" and role-playing games such as \"Dungeons & Dragons\". \n\n\"Monopoly\" is frequently played with slightly different rules to those provided by the manufacturers, to the extent that, according to a reviewer at \"Computer Gaming World,\" \"virtually no-one plays the game with the rules as written\". Some video game versions of \"Monopoly\" have options where popular house rules can be enabled. In 2014, Hasbro, the publisher of \"Monopoly\", used a Facebook poll to determine the five most popular house rules, then released a \"House Rules Edition\" of the game incorporating those rules.\n\nIn role-playing games, the term house rule signifies a deviation of game play from the official rules. Game systems may encourage, discourage, or ignore the possibility of house rules entirely. House rules are usually explicitly forbidden in tournament or official settings, but are commonly used in casual settings. \n\nHouse rules can range from the tiniest of changes or additions to substantial deviations that alter the entire flow of gameplay, depending on the needs of the player group. Most groups have house rules to some extent. In miniature wargaming, house rules may be used to represent equally unofficial miniature conversions or can be used as scenario specific rules.\n\nHouse rules date back to the earliest days of role-playing: the original edition of Dungeons & Dragons suggested that players should have a copy of the \"Chainmail\" historical wargame for measurement and combat rules and, even more confusingly, it presumed ownership of the Avalon Hill game \"Outdoor Survival\" (at the time, Avalon Hill was a competitor to D&D's publisher, TSR, Inc.; later, TSR and Avalon Hill would come under the Hasbro/Wizards of the Coast umbrella). Since many players who purchased D&D did not own copies of \"Chainmail\" or \"Outdoor Survival\", they simply made up rules to cover the holes in D&D; many of these house rules later became the basis for Advanced Dungeons & Dragons. \n\nMost house rules are made up by the members of a particular group of players and are never published. Generally, the companies that produce wargames allow their use alongside official rulesets as long as it is non-commercial, as is the case with Games Workshop.\n\nAny rule book that is not a part of the core rule books, even if it ultimately comes from the original publishers of the game, could be seen as being house rules.\n"}
{"id": "1819257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819257", "title": "Three-dimensional face recognition", "text": "Three-dimensional face recognition\n\nThree-dimensional face recognition (3D face recognition) is a modality of facial recognition methods in which the three-dimensional geometry of the human face is used. It has been shown that 3D face recognition methods can achieve significantly higher accuracy than their 2D counterparts, rivaling fingerprint recognition.\n\n3D face recognition has the potential to achieve better accuracy than its 2D counterpart by measuring geometry of rigid features on the face. This avoids such pitfalls of 2D face recognition algorithms as change in lighting, different facial expressions, make-up and head orientation. Another approach is to use the 3D model to improve accuracy of traditional image based recognition by transforming the head into a known view. Additionally, most 3D scanners acquire both a 3D mesh and the corresponding texture. This allows combining the output of pure 3D matchers with the more traditional 2D face recognition algorithms, thus yielding better performance (as shown in FRVT 2006).\n\nThe main technological limitation of 3D face recognition methods is the acquisition of 3D image, which usually requires a range camera. Alternatively, multiple images from different angles from a common camera (e.g. webcam) may be used to create the 3D model with significant post-processing. (See 3D data acquisition and object reconstruction.) This is also a reason why 3D face recognition methods have emerged significantly later (in the late 1980s) than 2D methods. Recently commercial solutions have implemented depth perception by projecting a grid onto the face and integrating video capture of it into a high resolution 3D model. This allows for good recognition accuracy with low cost off-the-shelf components.\n\n3D face recognition is still an active research field, though several vendors offer commercial solutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819269", "title": "Royal Victoria Park, Bath", "text": "Royal Victoria Park, Bath\n\nRoyal Victoria Park is located in Bath, England. It was opened in 1830 by the 11-year-old Princess Victoria seven years before her ascension to the throne and was the first park to carry her name, with an obelisk dedicated to her. It was privately run as part of the Victorian public park movement until 1921 when it was taken over by the Bath Corporation.\n\nThe park is overlooked by the Royal Crescent and consists of 57 acres (231,000 m²) with attractions that include a skateboard ramp, tennis, bowling and putting green and 12 and 18 hole golf course, open-air concerts, a large children's play area and a 9-acre (36,000 m²) botanical garden.\n\nIt has received a Green Flag award, the national standard for parks and green spaces in England and Wales and is Grade I registered by Historic England on the National Register of Historic Parks and Gardens.\n\nThe Botanical Gardens were formed in the north-west area of the park in 1887. It contain one of the finest collections of plants on limestone in the West country. The replica of a Roman Temple in the gardens was used at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley in 1924.\n\nTo the north of the Botanical Gardens is the Great Dell, a sunken wooded area alongside Weston Road. It is a former stone quarry planted out in the 1840s with a collection of unusual trees, including some large North American conifers.\n\nIn 2007 a programme of reconstruction and restoration was undertaken by Bath and North East Somerset Council and supported by the Heritage Lottery Fund. This included the renovation of two Medici lion statues on plinths each side of the Queen’s Gate entrance to the park, replacing the original iron armatures inside the limbs, returning them to their bronze colour, and giving each a gilt ball under its front paw. Further work will add two cast iron replicas of the original lanterns and the replacement of the decorative iron gates to the three main entrances to the park. The original gates were removed, along with all the railings around the park, as part of a Second World War national scrap metal campaign.\n\nFurther works involved the reinstatement of over a mile of perimeter railings, the restoration of the bandstand, the reforming of three sets of park gates, work to the Royal Crescent Ha-ha, and the extension of the Temple of Minerva to form a small interpretation centre. These works coincided with significant works to the planting throughout the park.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819271", "title": "Aaron Glenn", "text": "Aaron Glenn\n\nAaron Devone Glenn (born July 16, 1972) is a former football cornerback who played 15 seasons in the National Football League (NFL). He currently works as a defensive backs coach for the New Orleans Saints. He played college football for Texas A&M University.\n\nDuring his playing time, Glenn played for the New York Jets, Houston Texans, Dallas Cowboys, Jacksonville Jaguars and New Orleans Saints. \n\nGlenn was born in Humble, Texas. He played youth football in the Humble Area Football League. He attended Nimitz High School in Houston, Texas, where he was a four-year letterman for the Nimitz Cougars high school football team. As a senior, he posted over 1,000 rushing yards, over 200 receiving yards and 7 interceptions. He also lettered in basketball and track\n\nGlenn originally signed his letter of intent to play college football for the Purdue Boilermakers in 1990.\n\nGlenn first attended Navarro College in Corsicana, Texas, where as a sophomore, he won all-conference and junior college All-America honors, after posting two interceptions, 60 tackles, and 15 pass deflections.\n\nGlenn then transferred to Texas A&M University, where he played for the Texas A&M Aggies football team in 1992 and 1993. As a junior in 1992, he was the Southwest Conference (SWC) Newcomer of the Year and a first-team All-Southwest Conference selection.\n\nAs a senior in 1993, he registered 27 tackles, 13 passes defensed and led the nation with a 19.2-yard punt return average, while receiving first-team All-SWCand a consensus first-team All-American honors.\n\nIn 2000, he was inducted into the Texas A&M Sports Hall of Fame.\n\nGlenn was selected by the New York Jets in the first round (12th overall) of the 1994 NFL Draft.\nHe played his first eight seasons in the NFL with the Jets, from to . In 1996, Glenn set the team record for longest interception return with a 100-yard touchdown against the Miami Dolphins.\n\nIn 2001, he started 12 games, missing 3 contests with a sprained knee. He had 39 tackles and 12 passes defensed (second on the team).\n\nGlenn was acquired by the Houston Texans through the 2002 NFL Expansion Draft. He started 16 games at left cornerback, registering 75 tackles, 5 interceptions, 16 passes defensed and one sack. He and teammate Gary Walker became the first Texans to reach the NFL Pro Bowl in 2002.\n\nIn 2003, he started 11 games and was declared inactive in 2 because of injury, before being placed on the injured reserve list for the final 3 contests. He finished with 29 tackles, one interception and 16 passes defensed. The next year, he started 16 games, making 5 interceptions and 14 passes defensed. He was released because of salary cap reasons on April 26, 2005.\n\nGlenn signed with the Dallas Cowboys before the 2005 season reuniting him with Bill Parcells, who was his head coach with the New York Jets. Coming in as a 33 year old free agent, he surprised observers with his high level of play. Although he was projected to be involved only on the nickel defense, he started 7 games in place of an injured Anthony Henry and recorded 4 interceptions (led the team).\n\nThe next year, he played in 16 games (1 start) and was used mostly on the nickel defense, registering 20 tackles with one interception. In 2007, Wade Phillips was hired as the new head coach and released Glenn on September 1.\n\nOn September 3, 2007, he signed with the Jacksonville Jaguars. He played in 5 games (4 starts) and was declared inactive for 11 regular season games and 2 playoff games.\n\nGlenn signed as a free agent with the New Orleans Saints on April 7, 2008. He injured his ankle during the second game of the season, which limited his playing time until being placed on the injured reserve list on November 27.\n\nKey\n\nAfter five seasons away from the Texans, on July 28, 2010, Glenn signed a one-day contract so he could retire as a Texan.\n\nStarting in 2012, Glenn held the position of General Manager with the Houston Stallions of the Texas Lone Star Football League, an indoor league comprising exclusively teams from Texas.\n\nIn June 2012, it was announced that Glenn was hired by his former team, the New York Jets, as a personnel scout.\n\nOn May 18, 2014, he was named the assistant defensive backs coach for the Cleveland Browns. On January 13, 2016, he was named a secondary coach for the New Orleans Saints.\n"}
{"id": "1819301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819301", "title": "Superguy", "text": "Superguy\n\nSuperguy was originally a creative fiction writing group on the now-defunct UMNEWS mailing list service. After UMNEWS collapsed, the mailing list became internet-based. \n\nOriginally a spinoff of another writing universe (SFStory), Superguy was a forum for the posting of original, comedic fiction based loosely on superheroes and related concepts, and is one of the first examples of a shared-fiction universe on the Internet. Superguy has the additional distinction of having been active for over two decades, with new stories posted as recently as 2011. Superguy existed during the birth of the modern Internet culture, and along with SFStory helped illustrate the potential of the medium to mainstream users right when the Internet began to actually see mainstream use. It has survived much longer than similar Internet-based shared universe writing groups, diminishing in activity along with SFStory only when the webcomic trend became widespread.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819306", "title": "Actinomycetoma", "text": "Actinomycetoma\n\nActinomycetoma is a chronic bacterial subcutaneous infection caused by \"Actinomyces\" that affect the skin and connective tissue. It is, therefore, a form of actinomycosis. Mycetoma is a broad term which includes actinomycetoma and eumycetoma under it. However, eumycetoma is caused by fungal infection in contrast to actinomycetoma that is caused by bacteria mostly anaerobic. The predominant site of infection is the foot and leg. Both actinomycetoma and eumycetoma show very similar clinical and radiological presentations. And both chronic infections are endemic in tropical countries. \n"}
{"id": "1819310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819310", "title": "The Garg", "text": "The Garg\n\nThe Garg may refer to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819312", "title": "Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising", "text": "Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising\n\nJoint Operations: Typhoon Rising is a 2004 first-person shooter computer game from Novalogic that focuses almost entirely on its expansive online multiplayer mode. Set in Indonesia in the near future, Joint Operations takes the player to a country on the verge of disintegration. Regional independence movements have acquired advanced weaponry as the nation's military splits into competing factions. Escalating violence threatens innocent civilians and Western economic interests. Developed using the Black Hawk Down engine, Joint Operations promises superior rendering technology and an enhanced 3rd generation multiplayer experience.\n\nAlthough the game contains a series of single player training missions and operations accessible under the main page option \"Missions\", most players utilize the game's multiplayer option to compete online under the main page option \"Novaworld\" which connects the player to Novalogic's online gaming environment, Novaworld. Each \"Joint Operations\" server at Novaworld has the potential to hold up to 150 players, based on server bandwidth capacity, making the game a Massive Multiplayer Online First Person Shooter. Although a number of these servers are run by Novalogic, anyone with a PC and sufficient internet bandwidth can host a server, with a player limit of up to 64 people. Many independent servers exist, hosted by individuals or groups of players who form clans.\n\nIn the multiplayer setting, the game has five modes, which dictate how gameplay proceeds on any given map:\n\n\nThe Joint Operations Task Force is an international assistance force that is under the command of the fictional \"Coalition of Nations\", which was formed before 1999, made up of elite special operations personnel from the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, France, Russia, Australia and Indonesia. The Task Force was previously employed in peacekeeping operations in East Timor. After requests from the Indonesian government, the Task Force was sent to the country as part of Operation Typhoon Rising, to stop the rebellion and re-establish government control over rebel-controlled territories.\n\nThe Indonesian Separatist Movement grew out of the 1998 Indonesian Revolution which saw the downfall of Indonesian President Suharto. The rebels fight for varied reasons in their desire to attain independence of certain provinces, as well as to protect their people against the government. The instruction manual for the game states that the Rebels feel that they have been the victims of unfair and inhumane treatment at the hands of the Indonesian military and government. Joint Operations forces were sent to Indonesia to combat the rebel threat after three bombs were detonated by the Rebels, with one destroying part of a school, one destroying a government building in Jakarta, and one that nearly killed the Indonesian president. Recently, factions of the military started to join the movement resulting in the rebels taking control of several military bases and capturing large numbers of weapons and vehicles.\n\nOn November 19, 2004, Novalogic released an expansion pack, \"Joint Operations: Escalation\". The expansion pack was not a stand-alone release and required the original game be installed first prior to use. \"Escalation\" introduced new maps, weapons, and vehicles while focusing on an expansion of the conflict to other areas in Southeast Asia. Players had the option to use parachutes to jump out of helicopters or from elevated map locations.\n\nIn October 2005, Novalogic released both \"Typhoon Rising\" and \"Escalation\" as a compilation set called \"Joint Operations: Combined Arms\" which made it possible to buy both games in a single boxed product. This was done as a marketing move by the game manufacturer and there is no difference in game play between a player who owns \"Joint Operations: Combined Arms\" and a player who owns separate copies of both \"Joint Operations: Typhoon Rising\" and \"Joint Operations: Escalation\".\n\nOn August 11, 2009 Navarre Corporation re-released the compilation as \"Joint Ops: Combined Arms Gold\".\n\n\"Typhoon Rising\" received \"favorable\" reviews according to video game review aggregator Metacritic.\n\n\"Joint Operations\" was a runner-up for \"Computer Games Magazine\"s 2004 \"Best Multiplayer\" award, which ultimately went to \"Unreal Tournament 2004\".\n\nThe expansion pack \"Escalation\" also received \"favorable\" reviews (though not as much as the original \"Joint Operations\") according to Metacritic.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819316", "title": "The Gargoyle", "text": "The Gargoyle\n\nThe Gargoyle may refer to:\n\n\nGargoyle (disambiguation)\n"}
{"id": "1819340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819340", "title": "The Reflex", "text": "The Reflex\n\n\"The Reflex\" is the eleventh single by Duran Duran, released worldwide on 16 April 1984. The song was heavily remixed for single release and was the third and last to be taken from their third album \"Seven and the Ragged Tiger\".\n\n\"The Reflex\" became the band's most successful single. It was their second single to top the UK Singles Chart, after \"Is There Something I Should Know?\" in 1983, topping the chart on 5 May, and would prove to be their last UK no. 1. The single entered the charts in America on 21 April 1984 at no. 46, became Duran Duran's first of two singles to hit no. 1 on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100 (for 2 weeks) on 23 June 1984 (see 1984 in music), and was a huge hit internationally. (Their only other single to hit no. 1 in the US was the title song to the James Bond film \"A View to a Kill\".) It was also the first of two songs that kept \"Dancing in the Dark\" by Bruce Springsteen out of the top spot (the other one being Prince's \"When Doves Cry\"). The band wanted it to be the lead single from \"Seven and the Ragged Tiger\", but their label didn't like the warbling singing during the \"why don't you use it\" segments, thinking this would hinder its success as a stand-alone single track.\n\nThe remixes for both the 7\" and 12\" singles were created by Nile Rodgers, of Chic fame. It was his first work with the band, and he would later go on to produce \"The Wild Boys\" single as well as the album \"Notorious\" (1986) and several tracks on \"Astronaut\" (2004).\n\nProducer Ian Little recalled the sound Nick Rhodes came up with on his Roland Jupiter-8 keyboard: \"...whenever I hear that steel-drum part it always brings a smile to my face because it's so out of tune. Steel drums always are, but it was exactly right in terms of rhythm and tone. So a wood-block sound was mixed in to make it even more percussive and, successfully, it did the job.\"\n\nMain photography for the video for \"The Reflex\" took place during the \"Seven and the Ragged Tiger\" tour at Maple Leaf Gardens in Toronto, Ontario on 5 March 1984. Director Russell Mulcahy filmed some of the closeup footage in the indoor arena that afternoon, and the band's performance was filmed live during that evening's concert.\n\n\"The Reflex\" is primarily a concert video, accurately portraying Duran Duran's \"Sing Blue Silver\" tour performance style. However, in keeping with the band's insistence that their videos \"never be ordinary\", the video screen above the stage displayed bits of naked models wearing collars and chains illuminated with black light, occasionally interrupted by computerized video white noise. At one point, a computer graphics generated waterfall appears to pour out of the video screen above the stage to soak the audience.\n\nKeyboard enthusiasts have taken note of the Fairlight CMI (the first digital sampling synthesiser) that Nick Rhodes operated with a light pen in this video, and throughout the tour.\n\nSome symbolic scenes from the official video were taken and later mixed with the alternate version shown in the band's concert film \"Arena (An Absurd Notion)\"; in the final segment when the band, the crowd and even the fans undertake the final and crucial battle against the evil Dr. Durand Durand.\n\nIn addition to the 4:26 single remix, the 12\" also included an extended remix of \"The Reflex\". The live b-side \"Make Me Smile (Come Up and See Me)\" is a cover of a Steve Harley & Cockney Rebel song, recorded 16 November 1982 at Hammersmith Odeon in London, with lead Rebel Steve Harley joining the band onstage.\n\nA second live b-side released on the US single, \"New Religion\", was recorded 7 February 1984 at The Forum in Los Angeles. This is not the same live version that appears on the \"Arena\" album.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nApart from the single, \"The Reflex\" has also appeared on:\n\nAlbums:\n\nSingles:\n\nVideos:\n\nDuran Duran are:\n\nAlso credited:\n\nCover versions have been recorded by Less Than Jake and the duo of Kylie Minogue and Ben Lee.\n\nThe song has also been featured in the soundtracks of several movies, including \"American Wedding\" (2003) and \"Corky Romano\" (2001). It was also used in an episode of the short-lived 2002 television series \"That '80s Show\", in which bassist John Taylor made a guest appearance.\n\nThe song is also featured in the video games \"DDRMAX2 Dance Dance Revolution 7thMix\" (2002), \"Dance Dance Revolution Extreme\" (2004) and \"Saints Row 2\" (2008), as part of its 1980s radio station.\n\nA chain of 1980s-themed nightclubs in the UK is named after the song. The Birmingham branch is located directly opposite the former site of the Rum Runner, Duran Duran's early home base.\n\nComedian Dave Chappelle sings an excerpt from the song during a \"Stereotype Pixies\" sketch from Chappelle's Show.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819344", "title": "Danny Wallace (footballer)", "text": "Danny Wallace (footballer)\n\nDavid Lloyd \"Danny\" Wallace (born 21 January 1964) is an English former footballer who played for Southampton, Manchester United, Millwall, Birmingham City and Wycombe Wanderers. He won one full cap for England. His football career was ended prematurely by the effects of multiple sclerosis.\n\nWallace was born in Greenwich, south-east London. As a youngster, he played for West Greenwich School and for Deal Town, and his skills soon attracted scouts from many top London clubs, including Millwall and Arsenal, but he was snapped up by Southampton, joining them as an associate schoolboy in February 1977 (aged 13), and turning professional in January 1982, although he had made his first team debut more than a year earlier.\n\nHe made his debut (taking the place of the injured Kevin Keegan) aged only 16 years and 313 days on 29 November 1980 at Old Trafford, thus becoming the youngest player to be picked for Southampton – a record that would remain unbroken until Theo Walcott made his debut 25 years later.\n\nOver the next two seasons, his first-team appearances were limited, and he made only three starts (plus four substitute appearances) in the 1981–82 season. On 23 October 1982, he scored his first goal for the Saints in a 3–2 defeat at Swansea City. This was the start of a scoring spree of seven goals in ten games, which saw him finish the 1982–83 season with 12 goals from 35 appearances. That year he made the first of 14 appearances for the England U-21 side.\n\nSmall, compact and explosive, Wallace delighted The Dell crowds with his pace and superb individual goals. Most First Division defences struggled to cope with his speed and ability. He burst to national prominence with both goals in the first match televised live from The Dell, against Liverpool on 16 March 1984, by which time Southampton were a major threat to Liverpool's bid for a third successive league title. His first goal was an overhead kick that screamed past goalkeeper Bruce Grobbelaar, while his second saw him throw himself in front of Alan Hansen to head home a superb cross from Mark Dennis, in a move involving Frank Worthington and Mark Wright. The first goal was named Goal of the Season for 1983–84. Southampton had emerged as surprise contenders in the title race, but in the end Liverpool won the title and Southampton finished second – their highest-ever finish. They had even emerged as unlikely contenders for the double, but were beaten 1–0 in extra time by eventual winners Everton in the FA Cup semi-final.\n\nWallace's fine form continued, and the following month both he and Steve Moran scored hat-tricks in an 8–2 win over Coventry City. Southampton had another strong season in the league, finishing fifth, but were unable to compete in the UEFA Cup the following season as the Heysel disaster resulted in English clubs receiving an indefinite ban from European competition.\n\nHe had an impressive career at Southampton, being picked to play for England, and scoring in what turned out to be only appearance for his country in a 4–0 victory over Egypt on 29 January 1986 in Cairo. During the second half of the 1980s and into the 1990s, John Barnes was established as England's regular left winger.\n\nIn the league, Wallace scored eight goals in 35 games in the 1985–86 season and reached double figures again in 1987–88 with 11 league goals.\n\nOn 22 October 1988, his two brothers, Rod and Ray, joined him in the team in a match at The Dell against Sheffield Wednesday; this was the first time three brothers had played in the same team in English professional top-flight football since 1920. The three brothers continued to play together for the remainder of the 1988–89 season, with Danny and Rod playing in attack alongside Alan Shearer and Matthew Le Tissier.\n\nBy this time, Wallace was growing restless at Southampton and was looking for a new club. He attracted interest from many of the top clubs, and in September 1989 he eventually departed for Manchester United for £1.2 million, then a record fee for a Southampton player. In all, he made 317 first-team appearances for Southampton, scoring 79 goals.\n\nHe joined Manchester United at a time when Alex Ferguson was still looking for his first trophy as manager of Manchester United three years after taking charge. United had not won the league title since 1967, and when Ferguson had taken over in November 1986 he inherited a squad which had won two FA Cups under Ron Atkinson but was soon being broken up, with many players being sold, while a few including Bryan Robson and Mark Hughes remained an integral part of Ferguson's plans to take United a step further, with the major signings of this era including Brian McClair, Steve Bruce and Neil Webb.\n\nThe left wing had been one of Ferguson's areas where improvement was needed. After the departure of Jesper Olsen in November 1988, he had drafted in Scotsman Ralph Milne, but the player was hugely disappointing and Ferguson quickly decided that he needed a more talented player to fill this position. 18-year-old Lee Sharpe had started the season as United's first choice left winger, but Ferguson wanted a more experienced player for this position and seemed to have found what he was looking for in Wallace.\n\nOne of his first appearances for United was a 5–1 league defeat to Manchester City in the Manchester derby at Maine Road.\n\nWallace was never quite the player at United that he had been at Southampton, although he remained their first choice left winger in 1989–90 and was chosen for the FA Cup final against Crystal Palace, which United won 1–0 in the replay after a 3–3 draw. However, 1990–91 saw Wallace's first team opportunities reduced when Lee Sharpe ousted Wallace as the first choice left winger at Old Trafford, though he still managed his fair share of appearances and gave what was arguably his finest performance in a United shirt on 28 November 1990 when he scored one goal and helped set up two others in United's superb 6–2 away win over Arsenal in the Football League Cup fourth round, although it was 19-year-old Sharpe who made the headlines with a hat-trick.\n\nUnited reached the final of that competition on 21 April 1991 but suffered a shock defeat to Sheffield Wednesday and Wallace was not included in the squad. He did, however, make the squad for the Cup Winners' Cup final, collecting a winner's medal as a non-playing substitute.\n\nBut in 1991–92, Ryan Giggs burst onto the scene and Wallace was now firmly out of the first team picture, failing to make a single appearance in the league all season as United came second to Leeds United after leading the table for most of the season. He also missed out on a place in the League Cup-winning team. In December 1991 he was put on the transfer list and linked with a move back to Southampton, but the return to The Dell never happened.\n\nWallace was selected twice for United in their first season in the new FA Premier League, and scored for them against Brighton & Hove Albion in a League Cup tie, but it was obvious that his days at the club were numbered, especially now that Ryan Giggs had broken into the first team. A loan spell at Millwall followed, before he finally departed from Old Trafford on 15 October 1993 in a £250,000 move to Birmingham City.\n\nAfter a series of injuries and a puzzling loss of form which meant he rarely played during his last two years at Manchester United, he was sold to Birmingham City for £250,000. It became obvious that the player was far from fit, and in March 1995 he made a free-transfer move to Wycombe Wanderers where he made just one substitute appearance before ending his playing career.\n\nHaving been capped 14 times at under-21 level by England, Wallace was selected in the England senior squad on 29 January 1986 for a friendly against Egypt in Cairo. He scored in a 4–0 win but was never selected for the England senior side again.\n\nThe reason for his problems was discovered in 1996 when he was diagnosed with multiple sclerosis and he was forced to retire from football.\n\nOn 17 May 2004, St Mary's Stadium hosted a testimonial match for Wallace, featuring a Southampton XI vs an All-Star XI, organised by his former Southampton teammate George Lawrence. Other former Saints teammates playing in the match included Steve Williams, Steve Moran, Mark Wright and his two younger brothers, Rodney and Raymond. Manchester United were preparing for the FA Cup Final, to be played five days later, but several of Wallace's former United teammates also turned out, including Mark Hughes, Denis Irwin, Paul Ince, Paul Parker and Viv Anderson.\n\nIn 2006, Wallace completed the London Marathon in five-and-a-half days. His goal in completing the marathon was to raise money for the Danny Wallace Foundation, which provides aid for those suffering from multiple sclerosis. He was greeted at the finish line by former boxer Michael Watson, who himself completed the marathon in seven days after suffering brain injuries in a 1991 boxing match.\n\nSouthampton\n\nManchester United\n\n"}
{"id": "1819348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819348", "title": "Henry Playford", "text": "Henry Playford\n\nHenry Playford (1657 – c. 1707) was an English music publisher, the younger son and only known surviving child of John Playford, with whom he entered business. \n\nHis father died around 1686, but for some time before that he was in poor health.\nHenry took on his father´s shop near Temple Church 1685–1695, then traded in Temple Change 1695–1704 and finally in Middle Temple Gate in 1706. Many of his publications were of a transient nature and were aimed at favourite songs and instrumental pieces for public entertainments, such as the pleasure garden concerts much in vogue. He revised his father's \"The Dancing Master\" and published Thomas d'Urfey's \"Wit and Mirth\" and Henry Purcell's \"Orpheus Britannicus\". Among his most significant published song collections are \"Harmonia sacra\" (1688) and \"The Divine Companion\" (1701). \n"}
{"id": "1819362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819362", "title": "Anadenanthera colubrina", "text": "Anadenanthera colubrina\n\nAnadenanthera colubrina (also known as vilca, huilco, huilca, wilco, willka, curupay, curupau, cebil, or angico) is a South American tree closely related to yopo, or \"Anadenanthera peregrina\". It grows to tall and the trunk is very thorny. The leaves are mimosa-like, up to in length and they fold up at night. In Argentina, \"A. colubrina\" produces flowers from September to December and bean pods from September to July. In Brazil \"A. colubrina\" has been given \"high priority\" conservation status.\n\nAnadenanthera colubrina is known by many names throughout South America. In Peru it is known as willka (also spelled \"wilca,\" \"vilca\" and \"huilca\") which in the Quechua languages means \"sacred\".\n\n\"A. colubrina\" is found in Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Ecuador, Paraguay, Peru, Cuba, and Mauritius.\n\n\"A. colubrina\" grows at altitudes of about with roughly per year of precipitation and a mean temperature of . It tends to grow on rocky hillsides in well-drained soil, often in the vicinity of rivers. It grows quickly at per year in good conditions. The growing areas are often \"savannah to dry rainforest.\" Flowering can begin in as soon as two years after germination.\n\nA sweetened drink is made from the bark.\n\nGum from the tree can be used in the same way as gum arabic.\n\n\"A. colubrina's\" tannin is used in industry to process animal hides.\n\nThe beans of \"A. colubrina\" are used to make a snuff called vilca (sometimes called \"cebil\"). The bean pods are roasted to facilitate removal of the husk, followed by grinding with a mortar and pestle into a powder and mixed with a natural form of calcium hydroxide (lime) or calcium oxide. The main active constituent of vilca is bufotenin; to a much lesser degree DMT and 5-MeO-DMT are also present. \"A. colubrina\" has been found to contain up to 12.4% bufotenin.\n\nIt is also believed that the grounded beans were used as a snuff by the Tiwanaku. There have been reports of active use of vilca by Wichi shamans, under the name \"hatáj\".\n\nThe tree's bark is the most common part used medicinally. Gum from the tree is used medicinally to treat upper respiratory tract infections, as an expectorant and otherwise for cough.\n\nIn northeastern Brazil, the tree is primarily used as timber and for making wooden implements. \"It is used in construction and for making door\nand window frames, barrels, mooring masts, hedges, platforms, floors,\nagricultural implements and railway sleepers.\"\nThe wood is also reportedly a preferred source of cooking fuel, since it makes a hot and long-lasting fire. It is widely used there in the making of fences, since termites seem not to like it. At one time, it was used in the construction of houses, but people are finding it more difficult to find suitable trees for that purpose.\n\nChemical compounds contained in \"A. colubrina\" include:\n\nThe bark and leaves contain tannin and the beans contain saponin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819378", "title": "Martin Vukovich", "text": "Martin Vukovich\n\nMartin Vukovich (born October 20, 1944 in Eisenstadt) is a former Austrian diplomat.\n\nAfter obtaining a Baccalauréat from Lycée Francais de Vienne in 1962 and a PhD in law from University of Vienna in 1967 Vukovich entered into the Austrian Foreign Service in 1969. Soon afterwards he was transferred to the Austrian embassy in Moscow where he served as the Press and Political Officer from 1971 to 1976. In 1976 he became the first secretary of the Austrian embassy in Copenhagen. Two years later he returned to Austria where he became a Deputy Head of the Department for European Economic Integration at the Ministry for Foreign Affairs. In 1982 he was appointed Minister Counsellor at the Austrian embassy in Washington, D.C.. \n\nVukovich returned to Moscow in 1985 where he served as a Minister Plenipotentiary and a Deputy Chief of Mission until 1989. \n\nFrom 1989 to 1995 he headed the Department for the Conference on Security and Cooperation in Europe (CSCE) simultaneously becoming a Permanent Representative of Austria to the CSCE with the title of Ambassador.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1999 Vukovich served as Austrian ambassador to Japan. \n\nFrom 1999 to 2003 he was the Director for International Security Affairs and concurrently Deputy Political Director at the Austrian Foreign Ministry, being a member of the Austrian National Security Council from 2001 to 2003. \n\nIn 2003, Vukovich returned to Russia, serving as Austria's ambassador to the Russian Federation from 2003 to 2009.\n\nMartin Vukovich retired in December 2009 and is since active for the think tank \"Dialog-Europe-Russia\".\n\nBesides his native German Vukovich is fluent in English, French and Russian.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819393", "title": "Caret navigation", "text": "Caret navigation\n\nIn computing, caret navigation is a kind of keyboard navigation where a caret (also known as a ‘text cursor’, ‘text insertion cursor’, or ‘text selection cursor’) is used to navigate within a text document. It is a fundamental feature for applications that deal with text, for example text editors (e.g., Notepad, Emacs and Vim), word processors (e.g., Microsoft Word, WordPerfect and WordStar), desktop publishing programs (e.g., PageMaker, Microsoft Publisher), and spreadsheets (e.g., Excel, Lotus 123).\n\nThis kind of navigation is also supported by some web browsers, such as Mozilla Firefox and Internet Explorer, where it is referred to as ‘caret browsing’. Pale Moon also has this feature. This can be contrasted with the alternative and more usual control methods of using a mouse to point to links and select text for copying or editing, or using tabs to step through and highlight each link on the page in turn.\n\nIn this text navigation mode the ‘cursor’, often depicted as a blinking vertical line, appears within the text on-screen. The user can then navigate throughout the text by using the arrow navigation keys to cause the cursor to move; typically changing the cursor’s location in increments of character position horizontally and of text line vertically. \n\nOnce the cursor has been positioned as desired, any text typed will appear at the location of the cursor, either inserting the text and pushing any subsequent text further downwards, or overwriting any existing text (a mode of operation typically toggled by the Insert Key on most computer keyboards/systems).\n\nThe user can also perform various actions to manipulate the text, such as:\n\nCaret navigation usually also incorporates a form of viewport scrolling control where the caret moves freely within certain margins of a static display but triggers a scrolling event upon reaching one of the margins (either the edge of the screen/window/text field or a point a certain number of lines/characters within said edge). \n\nThe view within a WYSIWYG word processor, for example, may scroll the whole viewport a certain amount down the page as the caret nears the lower edge of the edit window. This keeps the text currently being entered or edited roughly centered without excessive, distracting, and potentially computationally expensive line-by-line scrolling. \n\nA spreadsheet character-based word processor on a low-resolution screen may similarly scroll in all directions, character-by-character or line-by-line, maintaining a small margin which the caret never enters in order to show the user what text or cells lie directly ‘ahead’ of or ‘behind’ the edit point and prevent them from ‘working blind’.\n\nA plain text text entry form, by contrast, may use a simpler method, setting a fixed and arbitrary display width within which the caret always ‘wraps around’, only scrolling up or down a line as the caret reaches the wrap point at the start/end of the current first/last line, in order to keep the edit point in view as it moves to the previous/next line of text. All other scrolling must be manually controlled by the user by use of scroll bars, mouse wheel, or Page Up/Page Down keys. Another alternate form of control is used in some spreadsheets when the Scroll Lock key is activated. In this case the caret is locked to the centre of the screen and the cursor keys instead move the worksheet itself ‘underneath’ the static caret, instead of the caret moving ‘over’ the sheet. The margins that trigger a scrolling action are effectively increased to their maximum possible size (vs the minimum possible with the web edit box), causing the caret to be re-centered any time it attempts to move.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819403", "title": "65 nm process", "text": "65 nm process\n\nThe 65 nm process is advanced lithographic node used in volume CMOS (MOSFET) semiconductor fabrication. Printed linewidths (i.e. transistor gate lengths) can reach as low as 25 nm on a nominally 65 nm process, while the pitch between two lines may be greater than 130 nm. For comparison, cellular ribosomes are about 20 nm end-to-end. A crystal of bulk silicon has a lattice constant of 0.543 nm, so such transistors are on the order of 100 atoms across. Toshiba and Sony announced the 65nm process in 2002, before Fujitsu and Toshiba began production in 2004, and then TSMC began production in 2005. By September 2007, Intel, AMD, IBM, UMC and Chartered were also producing 65 nm chips.\n\nWhile feature sizes may be drawn as 65 nm or less, the wavelengths of light used for lithography are 193 nm and 248 nm. Fabrication of sub-wavelength features requires special imaging technologies, such as optical proximity correction and phase-shifting masks. The cost of these techniques adds substantially to the cost of manufacturing sub-wavelength semiconductor products, with the cost increasing exponentially with each advancing technology node. Furthermore, these costs are multiplied by an increasing number of mask layers that must be printed at the minimum pitch, and the reduction in yield from printing so many layers at the cutting edge of the technology. For new integrated-circuit designs, this factors into the costs of prototyping and production. \n\nGate thickness, another important dimension, is reduced to as little as 1.2 nm (Intel). Only a few atoms insulate the \"switch\" part of the transistor, causing charge to flow through it. This undesired effect, \"leakage\", is caused by quantum tunneling. The new chemistry of high-κ gate dielectrics must be combined with existing techniques, including substrate bias and multiple threshold voltages, to prevent leakage from prohibitively consuming power.\n\nIEDM papers from Intel in 2002, 2004, and 2005 illustrate the industry trend that the transistor sizes can no longer scale along with the rest of the feature dimensions (gate width only changed from 220 nm to 210 nm going from 90 nm to 65 nm technologies). However, the interconnects (metal and poly pitch) continue to shrink, thus reducing chip area and chip cost, as well as shortening the distance between transistors, leading to higher-performance devices of greater complexity when compared with earlier nodes.\n\n\nThere are actually two versions of the process: CS200, focusing on high performance, and CS200A, focusing on low power.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819431", "title": "Jed Weaver", "text": "Jed Weaver\n\nJed Weaver (born August 11, 1976) is a former National Football League tight end. He grew up in Redmond, Oregon, becoming an all-league and all-state player in football, basketball and baseball.\n\nAt Redmond High School in Redmond, Oregon, Weaver was a two-sport standout in football, and baseball. In football, he won all-league and all-state honors, while in baseball, as a senior pitcher, he won third team all-state honors. Jed played in the Oregon All-State games in both baseball and football before going to the University of Oregon.\n\nWeaver played college football at the University of Oregon after walking on as a freshman, he was then drafted in the seventh round of the 1999 NFL Draft. He is a cousin of Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim pitcher Jered Weaver and Los Angeles Dodger pitcher Jeff Weaver and his brother Dan Weaver was a 37-game starter at Center for the University of Oregon football program from 2000-2003.\n\nWeaver was a member of the New England Patriots on the Super Bowl XXXIX Championship team in 2004. Jed was drafted by the Philadelphia Eagles and made the All Rookie team after starting 11 games in 1999, played 3 seasons with the Miami Dolphins from 2000-2002, helping the Dolphins to the playoffs in two seasons and in 2002 was a major factor blocking for the rushing title winner that year, Ricky Williams. He moved to the San Francisco 49ers having his best season in 2003 by starting all 16 games and catching 35 passes for 437 yards. His career totals are 96 games played, 88 catches for 1090 yards and 6 touchdowns in 6 seasons.\n\nJed and his wife Jori currently live in South Florida. He works in real estate, while she owns a women's clothing boutique in Pembroke Pines.\n"}
{"id": "1819440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819440", "title": "Tonbridge and Malling (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "Tonbridge and Malling (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nTonbridge and Malling is a constituency represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since 2015 by Tom Tugendhat, a Conservative. The constituency is located in Western Kent, in South East England.\n\nThe seat was created in 1974 from parts of the seats of Sevenoaks and Tonbridge.\n\n1974–1983: The Urban District of Tonbridge, the Rural District of Malling, and part of the Rural District of Tonbridge.\n\n1983–1997: The District of Tonbridge and Malling.\n\n1997–2010: The Borough of Tonbridge and Malling wards of Birling, Leybourne and Ryarsh, Borough Green, Cage Green, Castle, East Malling, East Peckham, Hadlow, Higham, Hildenborough, Ightham, Judd, Long Mill, Medway, Oast, Trench, Vauxhall, Wateringbury, West Malling, West Peckham and Mereworth, and Wrotham, and the District of Sevenoaks wards of Edenbridge North, Edenbridge South, Leigh, Penshurst and Fordcombe, and Somerden.\n\n2010–present: The Borough of Tonbridge and Malling wards of Borough Green and Long Mill, Cage Green, Castle, Downs, East Malling, East Peckham and Golden Green, Hadlow, Mereworth and West Peckham, Higham, Hildenborough, Ightham, Judd, Kings Hill, Medway, Trench, Vauxhall, Wateringbury, West Malling and Leybourne, and Wrotham, and the District of Sevenoaks wards of Cowden and Hever, Edenbridge North and East, Edenbridge South and West, Leigh and Chiddingstone Causeway, and Penshurst, Fordcombe and Chiddingstone.\n\nThe constituency is in the west of the county of Kent in south eastern England and includes about two-thirds of the Borough of Tonbridge and Malling (the remainder being in the Chatham and Aylesford constituency),and parts of Sevenoaks District.\n\nThis safe Conservative seat is characterised by a large commuter population although significant light engineering, farming and local service industry sectors are represented alongside the public sector, skilled trades and some construction. It has good road and rail links with London. Visitor attractions in the constituency include the River Medway, the Eden Valley Walk which covers Edenbridge and Penshurst, including Hever Castle, Chiddingstone Castle, Penshurst Place and Tonbridge Castle. In this seat are numerous oast houses and remaining Wealden woodlands.\n\nWorkless claimants, registered jobseekers, were in November 2012 significantly lower than the national average of 3.8%, at 2.0% of the population based on a statistical compilation by \"The Guardian\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819462", "title": "RealSound", "text": "RealSound\n\nRealSound is a patented (US US5054086 A) technology for the PC created by Steve Witzel of Access Software during the late 1980s. RealSound enables 6-bit digitized PCM-audio playback on the PC speaker by means of PWM drive, allowing software control of the loud speaker's amplitude of displacement. The first video games to use it were \"World Class Leader Board\" and \"Echelon\", both released in 1988. At the time of release, sound cards were very expensive and RealSound allowed players to hear life like sounds and speech with no additional sound hardware, just the standard PC speaker.\n\nRealSound was an impressive enough technology that a few other PC video game developers, like Legend Entertainment, licensed it for use in their own games. However, as the early 1990s progressed, sound card prices dropped to the point that they eventually became a baseline requirement for gaming PC-audio, leaving RealSound obsolete as it no longer filled a niche in the market.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819499", "title": "Eivind Smith", "text": "Eivind Smith\n\nEivind Smith (born 4 December 1949) is a Norwegian jurist and professor of law.\n\nHe was born in Bærum, and took the dr.juris degree in 1979. Since 1986, he has been Professor of Law at the Faculty of Law, University of Oslo. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nHe has published a large number of juridical books and articles. He continues to update and edit the book \"Forvaltningsrett\" (administrative law) after the original author Torstein Eckhoff died. Smith has also written the book \"Konstitusjonelt demokrati\" (constitutional democracy), which forms the bulk of the curriculum in constitutional law at the university. \n\nSmith has been the chair of the Norwegian Institute for Social Research from 2007 to 2010.\n\nOn May 29, 1998 Smith received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Law at Uppsala University, Sweden In 2014, Smith was awarded an honorary doctorate degree by the University of Copenhagen. This is his third degree \"honoris causa\", holding the former two at the University of Uppsala and at Aix-Marseille Université. Furthermore, Smith is Officer of the Ordre des Palmes Académiques. In 2012 he was anointed Knight of the Legion of Honour. \n"}
{"id": "1819507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819507", "title": "Helsinki Air Defence Regiment", "text": "Helsinki Air Defence Regiment\n\nHelsinki Air Defence Regiment (\"Helsingin Ilmatorjuntarykmentti\", \"HelItR\") is a part of the Armoured Brigade in Parola. The regiment was previously an independent Finnish Army unit located in Hyrylä (in Tuusula municipality, some 30 km from Helsinki). The regiment trained 800 conscripts per year.\n\nIn 2005 the Minister of Defence Seppo Kääriäinen announced that the garrison in Hyrylä would be closed as part of a major structural change of the Finnish Defence Forces. This took place on January 1, 2007. The operations of the regiment moved to Armoured Brigade at Parola. Closing of the garrison will save the Defence Forces about 5 million euro per year.\n\nThe last organization of the Regiment was\n\n"}
{"id": "1819508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819508", "title": "Notorious (Duran Duran song)", "text": "Notorious (Duran Duran song)\n\n\"Notorious\" is the fourteenth single by the English new wave band Duran Duran. It was released internationally by EMI on 20 October 1986. \"Notorious\" was the first single issued from Duran Duran's fourth album \"Notorious\" (1986), and the first released by Duran Duran as a 3-piece band after the departure of Roger Taylor and Andy Taylor. It was a commercial success worldwide, reaching number seven on the UK Singles Chart and number two on the US \"Billboard\" Hot 100, behind \"Walk Like an Egyptian\" by The Bangles, and was a success in various other countries.\n\n\"Notorious\" marked the debut of the new streamlined trio version of Duran Duran, as Andy Taylor and Roger Taylor had left the band by the time the album was released. In fact, the acrimonious nature of Andy Taylor's departure was reflected in the song to a certain degree. According to songwriter Simon Le Bon, the lyric \"Who really gives a damn for a flaky bandit\" was a direct dig at the guitarist.\n\nAs a trio, the band had enlisted the help of Nile Rodgers to take over production duties. His funk influences can be heard throughout the single - for example, the tempo and the use of The Borneo Horns brass section. Rodgers also played the guitar on the single.\n\nThe video for \"Notorious\" was shot on 23 September 1986 by directors Peter Kagan and Paula Greif, and bore an uncanny resemblance to the video the duo had filmed in June of that year for Steve Winwood's \"Higher Love\". The video was shot in black and white Super-8 with a hand-held camera, with quick cuts and changes of zoom and focus, a style that Kagan and Greif also used for the video to Scritti Politti's \"Perfect Way\". It featured the three-piece band performing the song on a sound stage, with scantily clad dancers in the background choreographed by Paula Abdul.\n\nThe young model Christy Turlington appeared in outdoor scenes with the band. A still photo from this location was used as the cover of the album \"Notorious\".\n\nFor the first time, the B-side to the 7\" single was not an original recording; \"Winter Marches On\" was an unaltered version of the \"Notorious\" album track. Before this, Duran Duran had always provided either completely original songs or previously unheard remixes on the B-side.\n\nAs a first for the band, \"Notorious\" was released as two separate 12\" singles. The first had a Nile Rodgers produced \"Extended Mix\" while the second featured a remix by The Latin Rascals.\n\nThere are 3 official mixes of \"Notorious\":\n\n\nAs a perennially popular song in their back catalogue, \"Notorious\" appears in various Duran Duran megamixes, most notably:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nWhen the track made its debut on Montreal radio station CHOM during the 20 October 1986 edition of the nightly radio show \"Rock And Roll News,\" DJ Randy Renaud declared that by the next night, the song \"Amanda\" by Boston (which had been holding on to the number one spot on CHOM's charts for several weeks) could \"kiss the number one spot goodbye.\" By the next night, CHOM had received enough requests for the song that it supplanted \"Amanda\" from the #1 spot on the stations nightly countdown show, \"The Top Six At Six.\"\n\n\nDuran Duran\n\nAdditional musicians\n\nProduction\n\n"}
{"id": "1819517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819517", "title": "Nissan Cube", "text": "Nissan Cube\n\nThe Nissan Cube is a subcompact car produced by carmaker Nissan since 1998. Initially sold only in Japan, the Cube was sold in North American markets from 2009 to 2014, and in European markets from 2009 to 2011. In Japan, it is exclusive to Japanese Nissan dealerships called \"Nissan Red Stage\" locations. It is a slightly larger load-carrying alternative to the Nissan Micra hatchback. While production for the North American market ended in 2014, the Japanese-market Cube lasted until December 2019.\n\nThe first generation of the Cube, designated Z10, was introduced in 1998. It shared the same platform as the Nissan Micra (known as the March in Japan and Southeast Asia), as well as the same 1.3 L inline-four engine. A continuously variable transmission and four-wheel drive were optional. The Cube covered the gap in the Nissan lineup between the March and the Sunny.\n\nThe second generation of the Cube was released in 2002 with a larger interior than the previous model. The combination of angled and curved surfaces was based on the third generation of the March, powered by a 1.4 L I4 engine. The model included the \"e4WD\" system as an option, which transfers power to the rear wheels when the front wheels spin via a small electric motor on the rear underside of the floor. The electrically powered system allows for reduced drivetrain drag in FWD mode.\n\nA CVT was optional, and was available in a stretched-wheelbase version with seven seats, called the Cube³. With a CVT, the steering wheel button controls and the sport wheel button on the dash panel are located next to the hazard flasher switch. In mid-2005, the cube had an optional upgrade with the new HR-series 1.5 L engine from the Nissan Tiida.\n\nAll Cube models have optional extras including an Ion filter (Air Ioniser) for cleaning the air and Nissan's 'smart key' which allows the driver to enter the car without having to use a key. Other options include a sunroof, 12 different styles of front grill and satellite navigation. Other specific models also have different styles of bodykits and fender flares. They come with optional 14 or 15 inch wheels and the Autech versions (Rider, Cube3 and GT models) with chrome styling and special seat covering.\n\nThe second generation Cube was imported and sold in Malaysia by Mitsuoka as the M-Box and later the MPV. This model was different from other Mitsuoka models in that it had no major differences to the original car, and simply had a different grille and a couple of other exterior parts. The M-Box and MPV were exclusive to Malaysia.\n\nThe third-generation Nissan Cube was revealed for the first time at the Los Angeles International Auto Show, on November 19, 2008. It was the first generation of the Cube to be officially exported beyond Japan, including to the European and North American markets. The Cube went on sale in Japan on November 19, 2008 and the U.S. on May 5, 2009.\n\nThe updated model has more rounded and curved styling in the rear bumper area, in the asymmetrical rear window which wraps around to the passenger side, and in the driver and front-passenger windows. The tailgate is side-hinged to swing open like a door, rather than upward like a hatch. The hatch hinge is on the right side for countries with left-hand traffic such as Japan and the UK; on the left side for right-hand traffic markets such as North America.\n\nSeating capacity remains at five. According to Nissan designers, the interior is inspired by the 'enveloping curves of a jacuzzi to promote a comfortable and social atmosphere.' Design cues include a water-ripple motif that appears in the headliner and is repeated in details like the speaker covers and cup holders. Nissan has developed an extended line of accessories for Cube to encourage personalization. These include multicolor appliqués that can be placed around air vents and window switches, utility hooks and elastic bands in different colors, variable color LED accent lighting for the footwell and cup holders, and a sculptured piece of color-coordinated shag carpet that sits in a shallow well on the top of the dash.\n\nThe third-generation Cube is built on the Renault-Nissan Alliance's front-wheel-drive B platform and powered by a 1.5 L HR engine, 16-valve engine with . For North America, it uses the 1.8 L four-cylinder engine of the MR family, it produces and of torque. Europe uses the HR 1.6 petrol and 1.5 dCi Diesel. All are also used for the Nissan Note and Tiida/Versa. Depending on the engine, it is available with a 5- or 6-speed manual transmission or Nissan's automatic Continuously Variable Transmission. The Cube is capable of averaging in Japan and doing city, and highway with its Xtronic CVT transmission. The e-4WD trim contains an electric rear wheel drive motor to assist the gasoline engine powered front wheels.\n\nAs a result of power shortages in Japan caused by the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami, the 2012 Cube made a delayed appearance in the United States in January 2012. The 2012 model had no mechanical or styling changes, but Nissan did introduce a special-edition version, the S Indigo with a navigation system, rear-view monitor, upgraded audio system, intelligent key and upgraded wheels. New paint colors were available: Pearl White, Brilliant Silver, Gun Metallic, Cayenne Red, and Bali Blue. New equipment features were added to certain trim levels. Pricing of the base model went up $240.\n\nIn early 2011, Nissan announced the Z12 Cube was to be withdrawn from sale in the UK and the rest of Europe, following its disappointing sales performance. Nissan cited a poor exchange rate as one of the reasons why the model failed to be competitive.\n\nThe Cube was discontinued in the North American market at the end of the 2014 model year, due to poor sales. Production for the Japanese market continued until at least December 2019.\n\nIt is a test vehicle with 80 kW motor and lithium-ion batteries.\n\nNissan claimed the production version would be introduced in 2010 will have a unique bodystyle and is not based on any existing Nissan model. However, the only production electric vehicle announced since then was Nissan LEAF, which was based on Nissan Tiida.\n\nNissan provided visitors at the 2008 LA Auto show with a brochure featuring the car using augmented reality technology by Total Immersion (augmented reality). The brochure is held up to a webcam of which various 3D models of the vehicle will pop out offering views of the car's exterior and interior in real-time interaction with the brochure.\n\nTo promote the first Cube model to arrive in Canada, Nissan Canada ran a contest in early and mid-2009 to give away 50 Nissan Cubes to \"creative Canadians\". The marketing campaign, called 'hypercube', picked 500 Canadians to compete for 50 Cubes by showing their creative talents. The winners received their Cubes at events held in Toronto, Vancouver, and Montreal.\n\nA recall was announced in the United States by Nissan on July 21, 2010, that affected 46,000 MY 2009 and 2010 Cube vehicles for failing to comply with Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard (FMVSS) 301, \"Fuel System Integrity\", due to excessive fuel leakage after a rear-end collision.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819526", "title": "Wonthaggi", "text": "Wonthaggi\n\nWonthaggi is a seaside town located south east of Melbourne via the South Gippsland and Bass Highways, in the Bass Coast Shire of Gippsland, Victoria, Australia. Known originally for its coal mining, it is now the largest town in South Gippsland, a regional area with extensive tourism, beef and dairy industries.\n\nThe name \"Wonthaggi\" is an Australian Aboriginal name meaning \"home\" from the Bunurong (south-central Kulin). It was used in the area some time before 1 August 1910 when the town was founded.\n\nThe Bunurong aboriginal people were custodians of this stretch of coast for thousands of years prior to white settlement. The Boakoolawal clan lived in the Kilcunda area south of the Bass River, and the Yowenjerre were west of the Tarwin River along what is now the Bunurong Marine and Coastal Park. Middens containing charcoal and shellfish mark the location of their campsites along the coast.\n\nCoal was discovered by explorer William Hovell at Cape Paterson in 1826, and was subsequently mined from the Powlett River fields in the region, between 1859 and 1864. However transporting the coal by whale boat through the surf to larger ships anchored offshore proved costly and dangerous and mining activity was soon curtailed. The coastal sands off Wonthaggi occasionally uncover the remains of ships wrecked along the coast.\n\nA tent city was established adjacent to the Powlett River, on what were then known as the Powlett River Coalfields. The tent city had no permanent buildings and healthcare was provided by a Dr Sleeman, who was later instrumental in establishing a permanent hospital in the township of Wonthaggi, proclaimed in 1910.\n\nMuch of the coal for the colony of Victoria was sourced from Newcastle and the Hunter Region in New South Wales, along with local supplies from private and co-operative coal mines at Outtrim, Jumbunna and Korumburra in Gippsland. After the 1909–1910 strike by coal miners in the Hunter Valley, the Victorian state government were determined to ensure stability in local supplies of coal. The State Coal Mine and the town of Wonthaggi came into being in 1910 to supply coal for the Victorian Railways. It was one of the largest and most dangerous collieries in Australia. At its peak in 1926 the mine produced per day, with the Victorian Railways buying 90% of production. In 1928, Wonthaggi coal accounted for around 60% of Victorian Railways coal consumption.\n\nA Post Office opened on 11 November 1887 in a nearby area. On 1 August 1910 this office was renamed St Clair and on the same day Powlett Coal Mine Post Office, opened earlier that year, was renamed Wonthaggi. That is when the town was given a permanent name.\n\nWonthaggi celebrated its centenary in 2010 and a book presenting interviews with local residents about the town history was published in 2012.\n\nThe Wonthaggi Wind Farm in Campbell Street was built in 2005. It is an environmentally friendly wind power station with six turbines. The Bass Coast Shire Council was opposed to the wind farm along with some local residents. Protesters argued that it would taint the view of Cape Patterson on the trip from Anderson to Wonthaggi and would affect the \"recreational tourism and landscape values of the coastline\". By September 2005 the six towers had been built, but were themselves a tourist attraction, seen clearly as you drive down the hill towards Wonthaggi from Anderson. The wind farm generates power up to 80% of the time, providing electricity for up to 6000 homes. It can be seen when visiting Williamsons Beach and the Victorian Desalination Plant.\n\nThe State Coal Mine in Wonthaggi was operational from 1910 to 1968 and is now operated by Parks Victoria as a tourist attraction and cafe.\n\nArtSpace which is a community art gallery and doubles as the Information Centre\n\nWalking, cycling and horse riding is the modern use of the old Wonthaggi railway line all year round. The Bass Coast Rail Trail is very flat and begins at the mine whistle airshaft tower in the centre of town and it ends at the roundabout to Phillip Island. Victoria's only coastal rail trail, it stretches 16 kilometres from Wonthaggi to Anderson.\n\nWilliamsons Beach on Lower Powlett Road is located next to the Wonthaggi Wind Farm and the Victorian Desalination Plant. The Victorian Desalination Plant also has a 225-hectare park and 8 km of walking, riding and cycling tracks. Seashell collecting is permitted on Wonthaggi Beaches.\nSafety Beach on Surf Beach Road Cape Paterson is a popular beach because it has a modified rockpool for swimming. The rockpool was built by miners in the 1960s, at a time when the environment was less of a priority in Australia.\n\nHarmers Haven and Wreck Beach on Berrys Road are popular for surf and rock fishing. Williamsons Beach and Baxters Beach are popular for fishing day and night, catching mostly Salmon and Mullet. Powlett River mouth is popular for catching Bream, Perch, Salmon and Mullet.\n\nWonthaggi's location on the north shore of Bass Strait gives it an oceanic climate, with the moderating effect of the ocean allowing a narrower temperature range throughout the year compared to other regions in Victoria. Average daily maximum temperatures range from 23.5 °C in summer to 13.5 °C in winter. Frost is rare, occurring on average 6 mornings a year.\n\nWonthaggi has three primary schools and one secondary college. Also Chisholm TAFE, Bass Coast Specialist School, Bass Coast Adult Education Centre, University of the Third Age (U3A) retirees education centre, and Connecting Skills Australia (CSA) specialist developmental school, support and employment services/training. Plans are underway for a new tertiary education facility.\n\nIn 1911, miners formed the Wonthaggi Co-operative Workmen's Club. The Wonthaggi Workmens Club entity still exists today on Graham Street, run as a family bistro, pub and functions/events venue. Miners were also prominent in establishing the local hospital, friendly society dispensary, trade union theatre, and a co-operative store, and in supporting miners in New Zealand in the 1912 Waihi miners' strike. The Union theatre slowly fell into disrepair following the closure of the mines, and in 1980 it was destroyed by fire. It was one of the last buildings associated with the mining era in the town. The Miners' Union donated the land where the Union Theatre had stood to the council, on the condition that any building erected on the site should perpetually bear the name \"Union\". It is now the site for the Wonthaggi Union Community Arts Centre.\n\nThe town has many large chain stores; RACV Inverloch Resort (accommodation choices & restaurant/Sunday buffet), four major supermarkets, cafes, restaurants, pubs, clubs, a hospital hotels and markets.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819547", "title": "L'Islet, Quebec", "text": "L'Islet, Quebec\n\nL'Islet is a municipality within L'Islet Regional County Municipality in the Chaudière-Appalaches region of Quebec, Canada.\n\nIt is located on the south shore of the Saint Lawrence River halfway between Quebec City and Rivière-du-Loup. The Musée Maritime du Québec (Quebec Marine Museum) is located there on Route 132.\n\nThe current town of L'Islet was formed in 2000 with the merger of the former city of L'Islet, the municipality of L'Islet-sur-Mer, and the parish municipality of Saint-Eugène.\n\nThe municipality got its name from a small island in the river near the village of L'Islet-sur-Mer.\n\nThe Notre-Dame-de-Bonsecours church, built 1768, is classified as important historical building.\n\nThe town hosts many small events during the year such as the Festival Guitares en fête, La Parades des Berlots, and the L'Islet Car Show.\n\nLocal rivers include the:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819550", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819550", "title": "Vivekananda Kendra", "text": "Vivekananda Kendra\n\nVivekananda Kendra is a nationalist spiritual organisation. Closely affiliated with Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh and RamaKrishna Mission, it is based on the thought-school of Swami Vivekananda.\n\nIt was founded on 7 January 1972 in Kanyakumari, India by Eknath Ranade, a senior pracharak of the Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh, left responsibility in July 1963, and engaged himself in building Memorial of Swami Vivekananda, which was inaugurated on 2 September 1970 by Shri V.V. Giri, President of India in presence of Srimat Swami Vireshwaranandaji, President of RamKrishna Mission. Its current president is P. Parameswaran.The organisation has constructed a solid waste management and bio-gas plant in Mahabalipuram.\n\nVivekananda Kendra received the Gandhi Peace Prize for 2015 for their contribution to rural development, education, development of natural resources.\n\nVivekananda Kendra launched Nationwide Sampark Program \"Ek Bharat Vijayi Bharat\" on 50th Year of Vivekananda Rock Memorial, by meeting the current President Shri Ram Nath Kovid on 2 September 2019, followed by Vice President & Prim Minister and plan to meet each state's Governor & Chief Minister, and all strata of Society and common people of India, who contributed ₹80.00,000/- by donating ₹1 coupon in '60s and all state Government contributed ₹1.00,000/-.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819554", "title": "Mission Bay, New Zealand", "text": "Mission Bay, New Zealand\n\nMission Bay is a seaside suburb of Auckland city, on the North Island of New Zealand, with a population of 5469. The suburb's beach is a popular resort, located alongside Tamaki Drive. The area also has a wide range of eateries. Mission Bay is located seven kilometres to the east of the city centre, on the southern shore of the Waitemata Harbour, between Orakei and Kohimarama. It covers an area of 1.08 km2 (267 acres), about three quarters of which comprises low hills, surrounding the remaining quarter, which slopes down to the sea. Local government of Mission Bay is the responsibility of the Orakei Local Board, which also includes the suburbs of Orakei, Kohimarama, St Heliers, Glendowie, St Johns, Meadowbank, Remuera and Ellerslie.\n\nMission Bay sits on three parcels of land comprising part of the Kohimarama block bought from the Crown in the early 1840s. The area used to be referred to as ‘Kohimarama’, a name now given to a neighbouring suburb Kohimarama. Present-day Mission Bay takes its name from the Melanesian Mission, which was established by the Anglican Bishop George Augustus Selwyn at the bay at the end of the 1840s. The school also known as St Andrew's College, was an Anglican institution set up to provide Melanesian boys with a Christian education. The stone buildings, designed by Reader Wood, date from 1858 and are built of scoria rock quarried on the volcanic island of Rangitoto.\n\nIn the winter of 1860 the mission buildings were lent to the Governor, Colonel Thomas Gore Browne, who organised the historic Kohimarama Conference. The conference was attended by 200 rangatira from a large number of iwi throughout New Zealand and aimed at convincing Māori leaders to reject the Māori King Movement and justify the Government’s war in Taranaki, which had broken out over a disputed land transaction. The conference lasted a month. A wide range of issues were discussed. It gave southern Maori in particular an opportunity to gain a fuller understanding of the meaning of the treaty. In the last week Paora Tuarere (Ngati Whatua) proposed that the treaty should be endorsed by the conference as a \"fuller ratification\". Tuarere was one of the principal chiefs who sold land to the government in Auckland on the Auckland isthmus. Maori then affirmed the treaty thus reassuring the government that Maori would, in general, support the government rather than the new Maori king. The kingite Wiremu Tamahana attended the conference. The Kohimarama Conference is said to be unique, since it was the first time Māori had been given the opportunity to hold a rūnanga with Pākeha officials, which was a first step towards representation in the Government of New Zealand.\n\nThe Anglican Mission was transferred to Norfolk Island in 1867, but St. Andrews College remained an educational institution, serving as a naval training school, industrial school, and institute for teaching work practices to ‘neglected’ boys. From 1915 until the end of the 1920s the Walsh Brothers located their flying school here, and for many years they used the bay as a landing area for their seaplanes. It is claimed that during this time they trained at least a third of the New Zealand’s pilots active during the First World War. Hence, Mission Bay was also known as ‘Flying School Bay’.\n\nIn 1928 the mission building became a museum, but was found to be unsuitable for the display of artifacts. It was taken over as a heritage property by Heritage New Zealand in 1974 and the former St. Andrews College has since been leased out as a restaurant.\n\nBastion Point (\"Takaparawhau\" in Māori), located on the northern end of the Mission Bay, had strategic importance for both Māori and Pākehā. Its commanding view over the entrance to the Waitemata Harbour made it a key site for the defence of Māori settlements and later of Auckland City. \nMission Bay and neighbouring Orakei achieved national attention in 1977 when Māori protestors occupied vacant land at Bastion Point. Land which had formerly belonged to the Ngāti Whātua iwi had been acquired cheaply for public works many decades before, and members of the tribe occupied the land for 507 days demanding its return. The site was largely returned to the iwi after a long and not entirely bloodless occupation. The occupation was a pivotal event in shaping the processes by which the Crown investigated breaches of the Treaty of Waitangi. The Waitangi Tribunal set up in 1975, became empowered in 1985 to include historical grievances as far back as 1840.\nBastion Point is also the location of the Tomb and Memorial Garden for Michael Joseph Savage. He is one of New Zealand’s most popular Prime Ministers and renowned as the architect of the welfare state. This Art Deco ensemble designed by Tibor Donner and Anthony Bartlett was officially opened in March 1943.\n\nThis fountain is the centre piece of the Mission Bay Reserve. Trevor Moss Davis was director of the Auckland liquor firm Hancock and Company and died of a sudden heart attack in 1947 at the age of 45. His father Eliot Davis, nephew of Sir Ernest Davis, Auckland mayor from 1935 to 1945, gifted a memorial fountain at Mission Bay to keep the memory of his son alive. The fountain was designed by architect George Tole and created by Richard Gross, it is constructed of Sicilian marble fluted to catch the light and decorated with three bronze sea monsters gushing water. The memorial is a landmark on the city’s waterfront, regularly sending dancing jets of water as high as 12 m (40 ft) in the air and at night it features a beautiful light show. During the summer young children use it as a paddling pool.\n\nSelwyn Reserve - This is the open green space between Tamaki Drive and Mission Bay Beach, often referred to as Mission Bay Reserve. It is named after the first Anglican bishop of New Zealand, George Augustus Selwyn. The reserve and beach together are one of Auckland city’s most popular waterfront locations. During the summer months the reserve hosts music, arts and sports events.\n\nKepa Bush Reserve - In addition to Mission Bay’s prominence as a beach resort, the suburb is home to the Kepa Bush Reserve, situated on the banks of Purewa Creek, which flows past Orakei Basin into Hobson Bay. The reserve is a pocket of native bush bustling with bird life during the day and serene with glow-worms in the gully near the main entrance at night. The reserve honours the memory of Te Keepa Te Rangihiwinui, a Māori military commander and ally of the government forces during the New Zealand Wars. He is also known as Te Keepa, Major Keepa or Major Kemp. During the land wars of the 1860s he fought for government forces against Te Kooti and Titokowaru.\n\nThe local secondary schools are Selwyn College, and Glendowie college,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819556", "title": "Moulton, Lincolnshire", "text": "Moulton, Lincolnshire\n\nMoulton is a village in the civil parish of The Moultons, in the South Holland district of Lincolnshire, England. It is situated on the B1537 road, east from the centre of Spalding and west from Holbeach.\n\nMoulton is the primary village of an extensive Fenland parish, over in length. The civil parish includes the smaller villages of Moulton Chapel, Moulton Seas End and Moulton Eaugate. The separate village of Moulton Chapel is about south of Moulton and a similar distance east of Cowbit.\n\nMoulton Grammar School was founded through an endowment given in the will of John Harrox (died 1561) who was steward to Sir John Harrington of Weston. The School opened in 1562 with ten pupils and continued to educate boys until 1939 when it merged with Spalding Grammar School. Some school buildings still exist but are now private residences. John Harrox is commemorated in the name of the Primary School and the Moulton Harrox sports club. The Moulton Harrox Educational Foundation uses income from the management of more than to support the education of young people of the district.\nOld boys of the Grammar School included:\n\nMoulton railway station closed to passengers in 1959. The station buildings remain but are now private residences although some of the old platform structures still exist.\n\nDuring the 1970s Moulton was home to an astronomical observatory that was relocated to Sussex in the early 1980s.\n\nOn 28 July 2005, a mini-tornado swept through the village, damaging the church roof and some other properties in the vicinity, depositing glass tens of metres away.\n\nOn 19 July 2016, a shooting occurred in nearby Spalding. The two victims, Claire and Charlotte Hart, and the gunman, Lance Hart, were residents of Moulton. Following the attack, Lincolnshire Police raided the family home in the village.\n\nMoulton's chief landmarks are All Saints' Church, known as \"The Queen of the Fens\", and Moulton Windmill, the tallest tower mill in the United Kingdom.\n\nAll Saints' Church was built about 1180, instigated by Prior John of Spalding. It took approximately 60 to 70 years to build, and was heavily restored from 1866 to 1867 by William Smith. The church has a rood screen dating from around 1425. There is a memorial in the floor of the church to Prudence Corby, who apparently died on \"Julye the 36th 1793\".\n\nMoulton Windmill, built in 1822, ground wheat and other products until 1995, despite losing its sails in 1895. The Friends of Moulton Mill was established to restore the Grade I listed mill to full working order. The mill was a subject of the first series of BBC2's \"Restoration\", after which it received a Heritage Lottery Fund grant, and benefited from fundraising events. A café and shop was built, and the mill adapted for disabled access. New sails were fitted on 21 November 2011 and on 28 April 2013 the first bag of flour to be ground with wind power in over 100 years was produced.\n\nThe remains of Moulton Castle, now a small mound of earth and a moat, lie south of the village.\nLocated nearby, just off the A151, is the Elloe Stone, believed to mark the site of the moot of the Elloe wapentake in Danish times.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819560", "title": "Lal Bihari", "text": "Lal Bihari\n\nLal Bihari (or Lal Bihari Mritak, ; born 1955) is an Indian farmer and activist from Amilo, in Azamgarh district, Uttar Pradesh, who was officially declared dead between 1975 and 1994. He fought with Indian bureaucracy for 19 years to prove that he is alive. Meanwhile, he added \"Mritak\" (deceased) to his name, and founded \"Mritak Sangh\", the Uttar Pradesh Association of Dead People, to highlight other cases like his.\n\nIn order to apply for a bank loan, Lal Bihari visited the revenue office at Azamgarh district headquarters to get a proof of identity, whereupon he learned that he was officially dead. His uncle had bribed an official to register him as dead, so that he would get the ownership of Bihari's ancestral land at Khalilabad, which measured less than an acre.\n\nBihari discovered at least 100 other people in a similar situation, being officially dead. He formed \"Mritak Sangh\", Uttar Pradesh Association of Dead People, in the Azamgarh district. He and many other members were in danger of being killed by those who had appropriated their property. Currently the association has over 20,000 members from all over India. By 2004 they had managed to declare four of their members alive.\n\nOver the years Bihari tried to attract attention to his situation by various means. He organized his own funeral and demanded widow's compensation for his wife. In 1980 he added the word \"Mritak\" ('Dead') to his name and signed his letters \"late Lal Bihari\". He stood (unsuccessfully) for election against Rajiv Gandhi in 1989, to prove that he is alive. In 1994 he managed to have his official death annulled after a long legal struggle.\n\nBihari was awarded the Ig Nobel Peace Award in 2003. In 2004 he ran for a seat in the parliament of Lal Ganj. \n\nBihari continues to support other people in similar situations. In 2004 he sponsored fellow Mritak Sangh member Shivdutt Yadav when he contested election against Indian prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee.\n\nAs of 2012, film-maker Satish Kaushik planned to make a movie about his life and \"death\", titled \"Mritak\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819574", "title": "Voer færgested", "text": "Voer færgested\n\nFjordcentret Voer Færgested is a nature center in Denmark, located south of Randers Fjord. Located near Voer Færgested a dock for ferries to \nMellerup north of the fjord.\n\nThe nature center features activities like:\n\nThe exhibition includes topics like plants, life in the water, protection of water environment etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819580", "title": "Fermanagh and South Tyrone", "text": "Fermanagh and South Tyrone\n\nFermanagh and South Tyrone can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819590", "title": "Newry and Armagh", "text": "Newry and Armagh\n\nNewry and Armagh can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819616", "title": "Airborne Science Program", "text": "Airborne Science Program\n\nNASA's Airborne Science Program is administered from the NASA Neil A. Armstrong Flight Research Center, in Edwards, California. The program supports the sub-orbital flight requirements of NASA's Earth Science Enterprise. Dryden maintains and operates two ER-2 high-altitude \"satellite simulator\" aircraft and a DC-8 which is specially configured as a \"flying laboratory\".\n\nThe scientific disciplines that employ these aircraft include Earth sciences, astronomy, atmospheric chemistry, climatology, oceanography, archeology, ecology, forestry, geography, geology, hydrology, meteorology, volcanology and biology. The DC-8 and ER-2 are also important tools for the development of sensors intended to fly aboard future Earth-observing satellites, and to validate and calibrate the sensors which are used onboard satellites which currently orbit the Earth.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819632", "title": "Talbot River", "text": "Talbot River\n\nTalbot River is the name of numerous rivers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819643", "title": "Hallen, Gloucestershire", "text": "Hallen, Gloucestershire\n\nHallen is a village in South Gloucestershire, England, just north of the Bristol city boundary. It is southwest of Easter Compton, northeast of Avonmouth and northwest of Henbury. The village lies at the edge of the Severn floodplain, sandwiched between the M49 and M5 motorways. The word Hallen is old Saxon meaning the village or place of salt or is from the Welsh for salt, 'halen'.\n\nFor administrative purposes Hallen is a ward in the civil parish of Almondsbury, although it is some 5 miles from the village of Almondsbury. Historically it was in the large parish of Henbury, and was transferred to Almondsbury in 1935 when most of Henbury was absorbed into Bristol.\n\nThe Henbury Loop railway line passes the village to the south. When the line was opened in 1910 the village was served by Hallen Halt station, but the halt closed in 1915. The loop construction made a railway embankment along one side of the village. It was during the excavation that a natural water spring was blocked. This destroyed the watercress fields that used to be a major income for the village.\n\nA large underground petroleum storage facility was built into the hillside behind the village during World War II, to provide protection from German bombing. The facility is still in use today.\n\nIn the 19th and early 20th centuries, Hallen was a popular stop off point for travellers making their way from the South West to the Aust ferry, which would cross the River Severn to Wales. There were three inns in the village, one with its own brewery. The brewery structure is still visible today attached to the last remaining pub, The King William IV.\n\nThe village retains some old world charm in places (War Memorial and Oakhill Lane cottages), but has been bisected by the M5 motorway which has left it somewhat desolate.\n\nHallen has a Non-League football club Hallen A.F.C. who play at The Hallen Centre.\n"}
{"id": "1819648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819648", "title": "Cowes, Victoria", "text": "Cowes, Victoria\n\nCowes is the main township on Phillip Island in the Gippsland region of Victoria, Australia. It is about two hours' drive from Melbourne and can also be reached by coach, or passenger ferry from Stony Point on the Mornington Peninsula. Cowes is located on the northern side of Phillip Island and faces towards French Island and the Mornington Peninsula. At the 2016 census, Cowes had a population of 4,839.\n\nThe area was originally known as Mussel Rocks. In 1865, a government surveyor Henry Cox returned from a holiday retreat in England and named the town he surveyed after the seaport town of Cowes on the Isle of Wight, England. The Post Office opened on 1 August 1869.\n\nThe Cowes Magistrates' Court closed on 1 January 1990.\n\nIn recent years Cowes has seen a rapid expansion in its size. Many estates and apartments have been built in and around the town on what was previously rural farmland. An estimated 70% of houses are owned by absentee owners, most of whom live in and around Melbourne.\n\nThe main road of the island (Phillip Island Road) leads into Cowes and becomes the town's main road, Thompson Avenue. A distinctive feature of the road is the 1 km lining of Golden Cypress trees which were planted in the early 20th century. Further into town, the road begins a gradual descent before it terminates with a T-intersection at the waterfront. As the road approaches the waterfront, density of restaurants and general retail outlets increases. Cowes Jetty was built at the end of Thompson Avenue in 1870 and remains a focal point of the town. It is flanked by sheltered beaches which are a popular attraction for families. An annual fireworks event was held at 9pm on New Year's Eve until in 2010 when they were cancelled and reinstated in 2017. Occasionally a container ship can be seen from the waterfront heading to or from the port at Hastings which is located to the north.\n\nTraffic tends to be heavy and accommodation may be scarce during holiday periods and large events at the Phillip Island Grand Prix Circuit.\n\nSince the 1960s, Cowes has been home to Christian Youth Camps in Church St and have run holiday camps for children, youth and young adults. CYC has since redeveloped another much larger campsite just outside Cowes - the Phillip Island Adventure Resort. After this CYC then also bought campsites at Adanac and Forest Edge.\n\nThe town has an Australian Rules football team, Phillip Island, competing in the Alberton Football League.\n\nGolfers play at the course of Phillip Island Golf on Settlement Road.\n\nMany of the roads in Cowes (and Ventnor), Phillip Island are named after other towns and villages on the Isle of Wight, the island that inspired both town's names.\n\nPhillip Island Nature Park (PINP) is one of the largest conservation parks in Australia. PINP is located on Philip Island, Victoria, Australia. This park was created in 1996 and it is totally owned by the Victoria State Government. PINP is located 1.5 hours’ drive at the south of Melbourne.\n\nThis park mainly covers over 1805 hectares. Main attractions in the park are Pyramid Rock, Rhyll Inlet, Seal Rocks, and Cape Woolamai. The park also includes specific viewing and attraction areas such as Nobbies Centre which is mainly for seals, dolphins and shark viewing, the Penguin Parade where one can see penguins coming ashore, Koala Conservation Centre and the Churchill Island Heritage Farm.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819650", "title": "Ikarus (Hungarian company)", "text": "Ikarus (Hungarian company)\n\nIkarus was a bus manufacturer based in Budapest and Székesfehérvár, Hungary. It was established in 1895 as Imre Uhry's Blacksmith Workshop and Coach Factory \"(hun.: Uhry Imre Kovács- és Kocsigyártó Üzeme)\" and during the Communist era in Hungary it dominated bus markets of the entire Eastern Bloc and its allies.\n\nThe company's direct predecessor was established in Budapest in 1895, when Imre Uhry opened his Blacksmith Workshop. The little company's main profile was to repair chariots and horseshoes. However, Uhry constantly upgraded his workshop from the stable income he gained, and within a few years the workshop started to produce its first carriages, drays and chariots. After a number of expansions, in 1913 Uhry bought a new plant, and by the outbreak of World War I they started to focus on building and repairing truck superstructures. When the war finally ended in 1918, the company was one of the most significant manufacturers. On the one hand because the Austro-Hungarian Empire collapsed and Uhry's company was one of the few not finding itself on the outer side of the new borders, on the other because the company was taking a significant part in the war production.\n\nIn the early 1920s, another enlargement of the company was due to happen, which eventually resulted in a new name: Uhry Imre Car-body and Trailer Factory (). Prior to 1930s the company was primarily producing various and unique superstructures on foreign companies' chassis, like Ford, Mercedes-Benz, FIAT, Büssing or Gräf & Stift. These included trucks, buses and even some passenger cars. The Uhry company was doing better as time went by. In 1929, the 1000th truck superstructure was produced. Although at this time the company did not have any export products, from time to time some models were caught by international spotlight. For example, in 1934 the company's luxury autobus built on a Gräf & Stift chassis was presented on the French Concours d'Élégance car beauty contest.\nThe company's three most important customers were the Hungarian State companies Hungarian State Railways (MÁV), the Hungarian State Railways Auto Transportation Company (MAVART) and one of the predecessors of Budapest Transportation Company (BSzKRt). These companies were constantly ordering from Uhry's factory, up until the Great depression hit Hungary in 1930. The crisis suddenly cut most of the orders, production was almost stopped. The situation forced Uhry to sell the vehicles below their real value and to take loans. Eventually, by 1932 the situation led to the bankruptcy of Uhry Imre Car body and Trailer Factory.\n\nIn 1933, the children of Imre Uhry established a new company on the ruins of the old, which was called Uhri Siblings Car-body and Vehicle Factory (). The children were using their family name with the letter \"i\" instead of \"y\". The new company's first three years went by steadily, without any major success, but in 1936 the BSzKRt, the company then responsible for Budapest's public transportation, ordered 50 diesel buses on MÁVAG–Mercedes chassis. These vehicles were still produced with wooden body, but the factory did hire new engineers, who started to work on a metal body variant, which was to be mass-produced.\n\nIt is worth noting that during this period of the company it was not customary to actually name their products. When we are referring to each type, it usually has to be done by the chassis it was built on and the year of production.\n\nThe first metal-body autobus in Hungary was the Uhri Siblings' MÁVAG N26/36, which was followed by a successor with some modifications every year. Four models were mass-produced, primarily for Budapest: the standard MÁVAG N26/39 and N26/40, as well as the \"hill\" version N2h/39 and N2h/40. These four were nicknamed catfish due to their unique front decoration. A total number of 184 units were produced of them.\n\nIn 1948, the company among all others, was a victim of nationalization, which was followed by the Uhri-family's departure from Hungary, out of fear from the newly formed government backed by Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1948, the old customer, the BSzKRt ordered a new line of buses for its fleet and for this request the – now state-owned – company developed a brand new model, the Tr 5. It was 9.5 metres in length and was built on a MÁVAG LO 5000 type chassis. \nIn 1949, new changes were implemented by the communist government. The Uhri Siblings Car-body and Vehicle Factory was merged with:\nHence the Ikarus Body- and Vehicle Factory () was created on 8 February.\n\nHowever, the company's products still did not bear the name \"Ikarus\" until 1951, although the winged logo started to appear even on the Tr 5 models, built after 1949, and the three other models, not using the company name.\n\nAs a result of the war, there was shortage of chassis in Hungary, but at the same time there was a growing need for buses, as most of them were destroyed or severely damaged during the Siege of Budapest. The engineers were forced by the circumstances to develop a bus model without chassis. The result was the model Tr 3,5 with a unibody construction in 1948, which was the first in the world of its type. Some sources suggest the German Setra S8 as the first with such unibody construction, but that model was only started to be built in 1950. The small Tr 3,5 weighted only 3,7 tonnes – hence the name – and was 7.73 metres in length. The engine was produced by Rába, but at the time the company could only produce some pre-war models, that were used for their own – at this point obsolete – bus model, the Special.\n\nDuring this short period, Ikarus had ambitious plans, as they designed two different bus models exclusively for export goals. One of these was the A 19, which was designed with Southern-American standards in mind. It was built on a 10.5 metres long chassis, and every single passenger seat was rendered next to a window. The model was also full of decorations. Despite of all the attempts, only two prototypes of the model were built, and both of them remained in Hungary.\n\nThe other attempt for export was much more successful. This model was called the M 5 and was built on the same chassis as the Tr 5, but received a redesigned front, manually operated swing doors and somewhat more passenger seats. A total number of 170 of the model were produced, out of which 90 were sold to Poland, 45 to Romania, and even though it was intended to be an export model, 35 to the Hungarian company MÁVAUT.\n\nIn 1951, after a long and heated argument between the engineers and the political decision makers on whether unibody or body-on-frame vehicles should be produced, the parties managed to reach a compromise. The engineers – who were pro-unibody – were allowed to design one of the two upcoming models with such construction. But they were only permitted to develop a smaller bus, a successor to the Tr 3,5. While the political will forced them to create the larger vehicles (the successor of the Tr 5) on chassis. Out of this \"compromise\" the company's first vehicle was born, that was actually bearing the factory's name: the Ikarus 30. It was designed as a universal vehicle to serve city and intercity routes, as well as coach services. However, the bus proved to be insufficient to be used in the cities, as it was way to small, narrow, and the windows on the roof were creating greenhouse effect during the summer. Hence, the model received the sobriquet of nylonbus from the passengers.\n\nAs much as it proved to be an insufficient city bus, it was successful as a coach. It became the first of many Ikarus models to be exported in large numbers. East Germany and China bought over 600 units each, while Czechoslovakia also ordered 500 vehicles.\n\nThe year 1951 sought another new model's birth as well: the Ikarus 60, which was the successor of the Tr 5 model. The Ikarus 60, as mentioned before, was a body-on-frame design forced by the decision makers, designed by the Vehicle Development Institution () and constructed by Ikarus itself. The Ikarus 60 proved to be a versatile vehicle and with some modifications, many submodels were built on its basis. The most notable example is the Ikarus 60T, produced between 1952 and 1956, which was the company's first trolleybus model.\n\nThe other important submodels were the ITC 600 and the IC 660, which were built between 1960 and 1967 as one of the first mass-produced articulated bus models in the world. Although it is worth noting, that these modification were not done by Ikarus or its workers, but by FAÜ, one of the operator companies. Hence, they were often referred to as FAÜ-articulated ().\nThere are a number of great achievements belonging to the company and one of those were the Ikarus 55 and Ikarus 66 sister models. From the two unique models there were a total of 16,726 units built between 1952 and 1973. Their engines were mounted in the rear section of the vehicles, which had a distinctive configuration and look, resulting in its common nickname (roughly: Buttocks). The sister models became icons of Hungarian bus history.\n\nIn the second half of the 1950s, Ikarus started to develop the successors of the Ikarus 30 and 60 models, hence created the Ikarus 31 and the Ikarus 620. The former was sold in large numbers to East Germany, while the latter was popular in Hungary and the Soviet Union.\n\nIn 1963, the Hungarian state decided to merge the ' or ' (\"General Mechanical Machine Factory\") with Ikarus. ÁMG's factory was in Székesfehérvár, hence the second plant of Ikarus was created there.\nThe 1960s were spent by redesigning the palette of models, out of which three models were born, which were based on the same design and elements: Ikarus 180, 556 and 557, which were to give an alternative to all the existing and still operating previous models. The Ikarus 180 must be highlighted out of the triumvirate, as it was the first articulated bus model developed and produced by Ikarus. Although it must be mentioned, that for the development, the company acquired a Henschel HS 160 USL vehicle, which was developed by the German Henschel company and at the time was regarded as „The Articulated Bus”. Ikarus actually disassembled and reassembled the vehicle over and over again in order to understand it. Technically it was almost identically copied by the engineers.\n\nIn the second half of the 1960s the development of these three vehicles was stopped, when the company decided to invest most of its resources into a new, versatile model series. This series became known as the Ikarus 200-family (or series).\n\nThe first prototype of the new model family, the Ikarus 250 was presented at the Budapest International Fair (BNV), in 1967. The whole idea behind this series was to create a model family, which is versatile. One that can be easily modified to be sufficient as a city, a suburban or as a coach vehicle. Today this is called \"modular design\", but it was not yet a widespread solution in the late 1960s. It was the designer, László Finta's idea to make the bus' structure more angular, therefore creating more space along with better view for the passengers.\n\nThe prototypes were participating on a number of international events and contests and won quite a few awards. In 1969, at the International Autobus Week in Nice, the model won the silver trophy out of 17 other vehicles. It also participated in a contest in Monaco, 1971, where the Ikarus 250 SL (luxury submodel) won Rainier III's grand trophy.\n\nFrom 1968 onwards, Ikarus started to develop and produce a variety of experimental vehicles, in order to find out the correct configuration for future models within the family. Finally, in 1971 the company decided that for city transportation, the best models will be the Ikarus 260 and Ikarus 280 models, which later on became the top-selling bus of that time. The articulated Ikarus was so successful worldwide, that the company even got into the North-American market, with its modified model, the Ikarus 286.\n\nAt its peak, during the late 1970s and early 1980s, the company set such records that has not yet been challenged since, like:\n\nAfter the success of the 200-series, the company did not stop developing new projects. The policy, however, changed in the late 1970s from one modular model family to two. One of which was to succeed the coach branch of the previous series, and one was to do the same with the city/suburban branch. The latter became the 400-series, while the former was the Ikarus 300-series.\n\nThe first prototype of the 300-family was produced in 1981 and was bearing the name Ikarus 386 K1 (380 NE). It was later followed by a wide variety of models during the 1980s. Their major characteristics were the elevated passenger space, which made them resemble modern coaches. They were produced by Ikarus until 1989, when its newly formed subsidiary, the Ikarus EAG received their production and development branch.\n\nThe other specialised new model family was to create a variety of vehicles for city and suburban transportation. The first prototype was built in 1979, under the name Ikarus 413.K1, which was followed by almost a dozen other experimental vehicles in the early 1980s.\n\nBy 1984, the development was finished, and production could start with the Ikarus 415 model's first generation. Although it was a well built model with the era's required technology, not many orders were received, because Ikarus' main market was in the Eastern Bloc, which just started to suffer economically. Not the Soviet Union nor Hungarian companies could afford the more expensive, more modern model family, and most of them decided to demand to continue the production of the much cheaper, but already 14-years-old models of the 200-series. The company had to wait until 1992 for the actual mass production of the model family, when BKV Zrt. ordered 140 units of the Ik 415 model. By this time the company has long developed the articulated version of the model, bearing the name Ikarus 435, but this vehicle also had to wait until 1994 for the first major order, from the same transportation company.\n\nThis Ikarus family of models was produced between 1979 and 1999 as the company's answer for the request of various developing countries, as they had a need for cheap, small and versatile vehicles. These units did not follow any major design rules, even submodels could look very differently from each other. What these vehicles all had in common was that they were not built with unibody construction, but rather on various chassis. Many companies sold their products to Ikarus, which then built superstructures on them, these include: Volkswagen, Avia, MAN, Renault and even Isuzu. Of all these models, Ikarus 543 was produced in the largest numbers, more than 2100 units were exported.\n\nWith the fall of the Communist Bloc, Ikarus's existence approached a crisis as well. Many of the once very close customers, including Russia, suddenly turned away from the Hungarian company, which resulted in a looming disaster. The other major problem was that the remaining customers still didn't want to even hear about \"newer\" models of the 300- and 400-series. And the third issue was that in 1990, the Soviet Union was on the brink of bankruptcy; the Hungarian government's response to this was an immediate halt on exports to the USSR. This resulted in over 1000 already produced Ikarus 200-series buses getting stranded in the factory's yard. That event was a major loss for the company. Ikarus also suffered a blow when Germany withdrew all its orders for the year 1990. These events forced Ikarus to cut off relationships with many of its suppliers and start producing these parts in its own factories. Although being a logical step towards protecting the company, it resulted in the fate of many other Hungarian businesses, including Csepel.\n\nIn spite of the numerous setbacks, Ikarus managed to stay above water, partially thanks to some newly conquered markets such as the United Kingdom. At the very end of the 1980s, Ikarus managed to export some of the 300-series models to the island, which built a basis for further partnership. From 1990 to 2001, the company developed and exported three models exclusively for the UK, the last of which was designed in 2000, named the Ikarus 489 Polaris and was a very up-to-date, modern vehicle.\n\nIkarus continued developing new models up until it went out of business. In 1993, the company built its first fully low-floored model, the Ikarus 411. With this vehicle, Ikarus was among the first companies to announce such a model. The first fully low-floored bus was the Van Hool A300 in 1991. Nonetheless, only a limited number of the model was produced, mainly because the bus was only 11 metres long, which at the time was not considered very practical. The company realised the issue and developed the successor of the model, the Ikarus 412, which was 12 metres long. On the other hand, Ikarus was the company that produce the first fully low-floored articulated bus in the world. It was Ikarus 417, which due to its modern features was very popular at first, and the German city of Wuppertal immediately ordered 17 units. The success of the model did not last long, though, because it had some recurring mechanical issues. As a result, only 32 units were sold over the next 7 years.\n\nIn 1998, a refurbished version of the old 200-series was developed, called the Classic-series. The old models received redesigned fronts/backs and new, more efficient Rába D10 or Detroit Diesel S50 engines. The Classic-series proved to be a success, since the Eastern and Hungarian customers were glad to buy the newer versions of the familiar models, while Ikarus also gained somewhat more income on producing them.\n\nIn 1999, the French Irisbus bought the already ailing Ikarus, which from this point started its downfall. Irisbus had no long-term plan with the brand itself, it was mostly pushing for Ikarus' factories and markets. In 2003, the French majority ownership concluded that it couldn't acquire these markets and decided that after closing down the factory in Budapest, in 2000, it should end the whole company.\n\nThe last vehicles to be produced by the company were three Ikarus 280s, which left the factory of Székesfehérvár in October 2003.\n\nThis part of Ikarus' history starts in 1967, when the company decided to establish a smaller plant, where the unique or small numbered models could be developed and produced. It became the (\"Ikarus Unique Plant\"). Many models for the Scandinavian countries were constructed here.\n\nIn 1971, the company decided to try itself on the west-german market, where the very strict , or \"VöV-regulations\", were in work. These regulations demanded a certain look and construction of the vehicles, which resulted in very similar, almost doppelganger like buses from the various companies. The Hungarian company developed and exported the Ikarus 190, while the competition produced models like the Mercedes-Benz O305, MAN SL200 or the Magirus-Deutz SH110. The Ikarus' model proved to be prominent, which resulted in several orders from German operators, and a total of 256 units' export until 1977.\n\nLater on, from 1976, Sweden also started to be curious about the Ikarus models, so they ordered a small number of them, with major modifications to fit the VöV-regulations' Swedish counterparts, the , or . The new model was designated as Ikarus 194 and on the customer's request was built on Swedish chassis (like Volvo and Scania), instead of using a unibody construction. The first series was followed by a number of others up until 1987 and even resulted in the development of an articulated version, the Ikarus 196.\n\nIn 1989, the company, due to the success of the plant, decided to create it as a subsidiary company, which resulted in a new name: ', or ' (\"Ikarus Unique Autobus Factory\"). The EAG started to develop its own, higher-quality coaches and buses on chassis called the E-series and became a considerable exporter primarily to the Scandinavian and Western markets.\n\nAlthough being successful and receiving stable income, in 2007 Irisbus eventually chose to close down Ikarus EAG as well.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Ikarus successfully exported ca. 500 of Ikarus 286s to the US and Canada. Later on Ikarus created a subsidiary, the American Ikarus in order to ensure production on the continent. Eventually and partly because of the mother company's bad situation, in 1993 American Ikarus broke away from Ikarus and took the name North American Bus Industries, or NABI. The new company later managed to become one of the most prominent American bus manufacturers.\n\nNABI continued its production, heavily based on the Ikarus 416 and 436 models until 2013, when New Flyer Industries bought it and eventually closed it down in 2015.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819659", "title": "Inner loop", "text": "Inner loop\n\nIn computer programs, an important form of control flow is the loop which causes a block of code to be executed more than once. A common idiom is to have a loop nested inside another loop, with the contained loop being commonly referred to as the inner loop. Two main types of loop exist and they can be nested within each other to, possibly, any depth as required. The two types are for loop and while loop. Both are slightly different but may be interchanged. Research has shown that performance of the complete structure of a loop with an inner loop is different when compared with a loop without an inner loop. Indeed, even the performance of two loops with different types of inner loop, where one is a for loop and the other a while loop, are different.\n\nIt was observed that more computations are performed per unit time when an inner for loop is involved than otherwise. This implies, given the same number of computations to perform, the one with an inner for loop will finish faster than the one without it. This is a machine- or platform-independent technique of loop optimization and was observed across several programming languages and compilers or interpreters tested. The case of a while loop as the inner loop performed badly, performing even slower than a loop without any inner loop in some cases. Two examples below written in python present a while loop with an inner for loop and a while loop without any inner loop. Although both have the same terminating condition for their while loops, the first example will finish faster because of the inner for loop. The variable \"innermax\" is a fraction of the \"maxticketno\" variable in the first example.\n\nwhile ticketno * innermax < maxticketno:\n\nwhile ticketno < maxticketno:\n"}
{"id": "1819661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819661", "title": "Persistence of vision (disambiguation)", "text": "Persistence of vision (disambiguation)\n\nPersistence of vision is the optical illusion that occurs when visual perception of an object does not cease for some time after the rays of light proceeding from it have ceased to enter the eye.\n\nPersistence of Vision may also refer to:\n"}
{"id": "1819662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819662", "title": "1997 in British music", "text": "1997 in British music\n\nThis is a summary of 1997 in music in the United Kingdom, including the official charts from that year.\n\nOasis released their highly anticipated third album, \"Be Here Now\", on 21 August (in the UK). It sold 695,761 copies in its first three days to become the fastest selling album in UK history until 2015, when the record was surpassed by Adele's third studio album \"25\". Radiohead's third album, \"OK Computer\", was released in June and topped the UK Albums Chart for two weeks. Met with widespread critical acclaim, it was voted the greatest album of all time by Q Magazine readers barely months after its release.\n\nCompared to just five years earlier, singles sales were very high this year. From 22 June right through to the end of the year, every single #1 sold at least 100,000 copies a week. Like the previous year, 24 singles topped the chart, double as many as 1992.\n\nThe Spice Girls continued their success from 1996, once again getting three number ones. The first was the double A-side songs \"Mama\" and \"Who Do You Think You Are\"; the latter of which was the Comic Relief single for 1997. This ensured the group became the first act to have their first four singles all reach number 1. This was followed by \"Spice Up Your Life\" in October, and \"Too Much\" in December, which once again gave them the Christmas number one single. They had now become the first act to have their first six singles reach number 1, but this run would be broken in 1998, with \"Stop\" only reaching #2. Spice Girls also had great success on the album charts as \"Spice\" and \"Spiceworld\" were two of the top five best sellers of 1997.\n\nThe Backstreet Boys released their second international album \"Backstreet's Back\". The album was a massive success reaching number two and selling over 800,000 copies in the U.K. The three singles released from the album were massive hits with \"Everybody (Backstreet's Back)\" reaching number 3 and \"As Long as You Love Me\" also reaching number three and staying in the charts for 19 weeks.\n\nSix singles released this year went on to sell over a million. The first to do so was Puff Daddy & Faith Evans' \"I'll Be Missing You\", a tribute to the late rapper The Notorious B.I.G.. In November and December, three consecutive number ones all sold over a million, for only the third time in UK chart history (it had previously happened in 1984 and 1995/6). These were Aqua's \"Barbie Girl\", the Children in Need charity single \"Perfect Day\", and \"Teletubbies say \"Eh-oh!\", the theme tune to the popular children's television series Teletubbies. In addition, All Saints' \"Never Ever\" was released in November and also sold over a million, though it wouldn't reach number one until January 1998.\n\nIn November, The Prodigy released \"Smack My Bitch Up\", which received huge international media attention, due to the fact that many people believed it to be misogynistic and / or that it promotes violence against women. Some stores refused to stock the single and / or album from which it came, and some radio stations refused to play it. A graphic video showing bad behaviour on the part of the protagonist in the music video lead to its showing on television being greatly restricted.\n\nBy far the biggest-selling single of the year, though, came from Elton John. In August, Diana, Princess of Wales, was killed in a car crash. At her funeral, John played a rewritten version of \"Candle in the Wind\" known as \"Candle in the Wind 1997\", a song originally written about Marilyn Monroe (made #11 in 1974, with a live version reaching #5 in 1988). When released this year, it quickly overtook 1984's \"Do They Know It's Christmas?\" to become the biggest selling UK single ever, selling 4.86 million copies, and the biggest selling in the world, selling 37 million. It continues to hold the record to this day.\n\nAndrew Glover's string quartet \"The Fickle Virgin of Seventeen Summers\" was one of several new classical works by British composers. Others included Geoffrey Burgon's \"City Adventures\", a percussion concerto written for Scottish virtuoso Evelyn Glennie and premièred by her during the 1997 Proms season. One of the UK's most prolific classical composers, Wilfred Josephs, died on 17 November. In April, Nigel Kennedy, now calling himself simply \"Kennedy\", returned to the stage at the Royal Festival Hall after a five-year absence from the concert stage resulting from neck surgery. Towards the end of the year, veteran composer Sir Michael Tippett developed pneumonia while visiting Sweden, which would lead to his death early in 1998.\n\n\nBased on sales from 30 December 1996 to 28 December 1997.\nNotes:\nBased on sales from 30 December 1996 to 28 December 1997.\nNotes:\nBased on sales from 30 December 1996 to 28 December 1997.\n\n\n\n\nThe 1997 BRIT Awards winners were:\n\n\nThe 1997 Mercury Music Prize was awarded to Roni Size/Reprazent – \"New Forms\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819666", "title": "Casimir II", "text": "Casimir II\n\nCasimir II may refer to: \n"}
{"id": "1819676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819676", "title": "Southmead", "text": "Southmead\n\nSouthmead is a northern suburb and council ward of Bristol, in the south-west of England. The town of Filton (in South Gloucestershire), and the Bristol suburbs of Monks Park, Horfield, Henleaze and Westbury on Trym lie on its boundaries.\n\nThe River Trym rises in Southmead and flows south-west through Badock's Wood, a Local Nature Reserve. There is a round barrow near the northern end of the wood. A Site of Special Scientific Interest, known as The Pen Park Hole , is also located within Southmead on 'Pen Park Road'.\n\nSouthmead was a manor of the parish of Westbury on Trym. The manor house, mentioned in a document of 1319, was near the south end of what is now Southmead Road. Most of the estate of was sold in the late 19th century. By 1888 Southmead was a small hamlet on Southmead Road. Southmead Hospital, formerly the Barton Regis Workhouse, was opened there in 1924.\n\nLarge-scale development of the area started in 1931, when the Bristol Corporation built 1,500 houses to the north of Southmead Road, partly to house families cleared from the slums of central Bristol, and partly to address the housing shortage at the time. A further 1,100 houses were built after the Second World War. Since the Second World War, a reference has often been made by the local community, to the 'pre-war estate' of Southmead and the 'post-war estate', with locals also referring to them as \"The old estate\" and \"The new estate\".\n\nThe centre of Southmead is along Greystoke Avenue, a wide road with grassy areas some distance to the North of the original hamlet on Southmead Road. The area to the South and West, falls within Westbury-on-Trym and Henleaze ward since the last boundary review and further to the May 2016 elections. Parts of Southmead to the south-east of Southmead Road, including the hospital, are in Horfield ward.\n\nEfforts have been made to improve the area's social problems and implement environmental improvements, many of which have been successful. Social policies have led to a more mixed housing offer and to some extent gentrification, with improved infrastructure and local services. The right to buy has led to an increased transfer of housing provision from tenanted to owner-occupation. Major employment hubs at Filton, MOD Abbey Wood and the increase of services at Southmead Hospital have brought increased affluence and opportunity to the area. A greater selection of shops and facilities have come to the area, allowing those on limited incomes to access food more cheaply and readily. Whilst Southmead as an area looks and feels as though it is improving, it still experiences deprivation. The central part of Southmead still sits within the most 10% deprived areas of England, and the South West of the Ward since 2015 now falls within the bottom 10-20% most deprived areas. Ongoing social policies and economic impacts are taking time to incrementally improve the area.\n\nResidents have good geographical access. There has however been a transfer of public services away from physical resources to more central, virtual and internet based services. For example, the Southmead Police Station is due to close, with a more regional hub at Patchway. Council tenant services are to be reduced at Southmead House off Greystoke Avenue. Bus services, whilst sometimes locally critiqued, are accessible and more frequent as compared to some other areas of the City. A frequent service connects residents to the Gloucester Road area, City Centre and Cribbs Causeway for shopping. The nearest station is however 2–3 miles away at Filton Abbey Wood.\nThere is provision of health services with a doctor's surgery on Ullswater Road and a modern new facility at the Greenway Centre. A regional hospital, and A&E facility can be found at Southmead Hospital. The Lannercost provides facilities for those with physical and learning impairments. There are a selection of care homes and sheltered accommodation about the ward area. Despite access to health facilities Southmead still has poor health outcomes; with life expectancy at 77 years, five years lower than neighbouring Henleaze but not quite as bad as some areas such as the Bedminster at 76.4 years. \n\nThe area is well served with a range of local parks and sporting facilities. There is a private member's sports club at David Lloyd near Badock's Wood. There are sports pitches at Greenway Centre to the South East, and at Charlton Mead to the East of the area. Filton Golf Course abuts Southmead to the North East. There is an MUGA and Adventure Playground off Doncaster Road. There are also play areas off of Glencoyne Square, Charlton Mead and off Greystoke Avenue. To the South of Southmead, only a mile away, is Horfield Sports Centre with public access to 3G pitches, gym, sports Hall and a swimming pool. \n\nThere is ready access to children's provision through a selection of primary schools at Baddocks Wood, Little Mead and Fonthill. Baddocks Wood Children Centre complements Early Year's provision to the South of the area. Young people are however said to be more socially deprived and not as likely to go to university as others in the country which is reflective of the national socio-economic imbalances within the UK's education system.\n\nSouthmead has historically had adverse press due to community safety and cohesion. Following the 1980 St. Pauls riot, Southmead experienced two nights of rioting.\n\nOn 19 October 2009, a BBC \"Panorama\" report, investigating the extent of racism in modern Britain, featured two undercover journalists who posed as Muslims on the Southmead estate. The journalists were subject to 50 incidents of racist abuse from local residents in two months. The couple were verbally and physically attacked during their time in the area of Southmead where they were residing, being told to go back to Iraq. The word \"Jew\" was also used as an insult against the man and a brick was thrown. The day after the programme was broadcast, a 22-year-old man and an 11-year-old boy were arrested on suspicion of racially aggravated assault.\n\nAs with any area there have been mixed experiences by residents and visitors. A visitor to the area, unhappy with the lack of bus service provision in the Crow Lane area, once commented that \"the police are doing bugger all about this, all this aggro that's going on\". The area is said by locals to be \"a great place [with] ... a strong sense of community spirit, lots of community activity and lots of optimism for the future.\" The local neighbourhood plan says \"our vision is that Southmead is known as a great place for everyone to live, a strong community where residents work together, inspire each other and people of all ages have the skills and confidence to achieve their full potential\". This plan was the outcome of significant community consultation and planning. Two of the nine strands of the community plan target community safety and strengthening the community (including inclusion and cohesion). The Southmead Development Trust (SDT) co-ordinates and oversees the plan.\n"}
{"id": "1819692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819692", "title": "East Ham (UK Parliament constituency)", "text": "East Ham (UK Parliament constituency)\n\nEast Ham is a constituency in the London Borough of Newham represented in the House of Commons of the UK Parliament since its creation in 1997 by Stephen Timms of the Labour Party.\n\nThe seat was formed in 1997 when Newham North East and part of Newham South were replaced by the seat.\n\nEast Ham's wards have long been Labour strongholds. Ron Leighton (Lab) was MP for the old Newham North East from 1979 until his death in 1994.\n\nStephen Timms (Lab) has represented the seat since its creation in 1997. At the 2010 general election, Timms received the most votes of any MP (35,471) and largest majority (27,826) of any MP. The seat has the second-highest numerical majority and fourth-highest percentage of majority in the country, behind other staunch Labour \"safe seats\" in Merseyside. Every component ward has only Labour councillors (resulting from local elections) and the party's general election candidate has achieved an absolute majority in the five elections since creation, against a wide assortment of political parties.\n\nThe RESPECT Coalition stood a candidate once, hoping to benefit from opposition to the Iraq war in the 2005 general election which saw elsewhere their first MP, and took second place.\n\nJust north of the River Thames is the seat of East Ham. The constituency contains the King George V and the Royal Albert Docks, and London City Airport . The ExCel centre is the impetus behind the construction of a number of international hotels.\n\nThe area benefits from the Thames Gateway regeneration of the London Riverside area. The Silvertown Quays redevelopment will create an innovative quarter and an estimated 21,000 jobs.\n\nThree quarters of the population are non-white; over a third are Muslim and more than half are Asian - the fourth highest proportion of any constituency in England and Wales, according to ONS 2011 Census figures. There is also a large black population.\n\nUnemployment is significantly higher than the national average of 3.5%. In the constituency 9.9% of people are unemployed.\n\nAt the 2014 and 2010 council elections, Labour won all of the seats. One of the safest Labour seats in the country, Stephen Timms has been MP since 1994.\n\n1997–2010: The London Borough of Newham wards of Castle, Central, Greatfield, Kensington, Little Ilford, Manor Park, Monega, St Stephen's, South, and Wall End.\n\n2010–present: The London Borough of Newham wards of Beckton, Boleyn, East Ham Central, East Ham North, East Ham South, Green Street East, Little Ilford, Manor Park, Royal Docks, and Wall End.\n\nThe constituency covers the eastern half of Newham, including East Ham, Beckton, Little Ilford and Manor Park.\n\nThis was the largest numerical majority of any seat in the 2010 general election.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819698", "title": "Nyah West", "text": "Nyah West\n\nNyah West is a town in Victoria, Australia near the Murray River, the border with New South Wales. It is near the Murray Valley Highway (Nyah West is on the railway line, Nyah is on the highway), north-west of Melbourne and north-west of Swan Hill.\n\nThe town was established when the railway line was extended from Swan Hill to Piangil in 1915 passing some distance to the west of the established township of Nyah. A full Post Office opened here on 1 December 1917. Nyah West Magistrates' Court was formally closed on 1 September 1982, having used a local hall rather than its own courthouse and not having sat for many years.\n\nAt the , Nyah West had a population of 552. It is the business and commercial centre of a prosperous irrigation district which produces wine and dried fruit, as well as vegetables and wool.\n\nThe town in conjunction with neighbouring township Nyah has an Australian Rules football team competing in the Central Murray Football League known as Nyah-Nyah West United.\n\nGolfers play at the course of the Nyah West Golf Club on Yarraby Road.\n"}
{"id": "1819702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819702", "title": "Drouin, Victoria", "text": "Drouin, Victoria\n\nDrouin is a town in the West Gippsland region, east of Melbourne, in the Australian state of Victoria. Its local government area is the Shire of Baw Baw, and is home to the council headquarters despite being the second largest town in the shire, behind neighbouring Warragul. The town is supposedly named after a Frenchman who invented a chlorination process for the extraction of ore, or an Aboriginal word meaning \"north wind\". New housing developments have accelerated the town's residential growth in recent years. As at the , Drouin had a population of people.\n\nSettlement in this part of Gippsland was rather delayed due to the dense forest. Pastoral runs were taken up but little developed. In 1867, a coaching station was established on the track into Gippsland at Brandy Creek, about north-east of present Drouin. By the early 1870s, a small settlement had developed and land was being selected in the area. A post office opened on 5 April 1876, later renamed to Jindivick in 1878.\n\nBetween 1877 and 1879, the Gippsland railway line was constructed, connecting Melbourne with Gippsland. Workers' camps were set up along the route which passed to the south of Brandy Creek, with three camps in the vicinity of Drouin. After the Brandy Creek rail section opened in 1878, a township was surveyed at Drouin Junction, soon known as Drouin. A post office named Drouin Junction opened on 1 January 1877 and was renamed Drouin in 1878. As Drouin developed, Brandy Creek, now called Buln Buln, had declined. When the Buln Buln Shire was formed in 1878, the administrative centre was located in Drouin. The new Tourists' Guide described the township in 1889, showing its substantial development.\n\nThroughout the 1880s, a number of small sawmills operated in the Drouin district, many transporting their timber by tramway to the Drouin railway station. In the 1890s, a quarry was opened south-east of Drouin, the stone being carried by tramway to a railway siding east of Drouin. In 1913, this quarry was purchased and operated by the shire.\nAs land was cleared, dairy farming became the main industry. Initially, butter and cheese were made on the farm. A creamery operated from 1891 to 1895 and in 1904 a co-operative butter factory was established at Drouin. When this factory was extended in 1907, an electric light plant was installed which also provided light for the streets and homes of Drouin. The factory supplied fresh milk to the Melbourne market from 1915.\n\nOver the years, the company acquired other dairy companies and enlarged its own operation, producing casein, skim milk and butter-oil as well as butter and cheese. It became part of the Bonlac company (now Fonterra) which later closed it down, removing the town's biggest employer. Flax was grown around Drouin during the two world wars. A private factory operated for a while and in 1941, the government constructed a factory to manufacture canvas goods for military use.\n\nThe town has progressed steadily. In 1904, the population was 700. By 1933, there were just over 1,000 inhabitants and by 1970, 2,750. From the 1970s, the subdivision of an industrial estate on the south-east edge of the town had encouraged the growth of light industry. A number of housing subdivisions have also been initiated, as well as rural residential subdivision on the fringes of the town. The construction of a freeway bypassing Drouin allowed the remodelling of the shopping centre. By 1981, the population was 3,492 and in 1991 was 4,100. The Victorian Municipal Directory described the town in 1994. The town forms part of a combined urban area that includes Warragul. The estimated urban population for this area was 37,928 at June 2018, having grown on average 3.26% year-on-year for the preceding five years.\n\nDrouin holds an annual Ficofolia Festival. Ficifolia are the flowering gum trees which occur throughout the town. This celebration includes the town gathering in the main street of Drouin and watching the local schools and participating businesses showcase who they are and what they do. Every year there is a theme which participants in the festival are encouraged to incorporate into their float or costumes. The participants of the parade begin from the Drouin Football Oval, through the main street, and finish at Drouin Civic Park. Here, the town continues its celebration with bands playing in the park, food trucks, rides, market stalls, and finishes with a movie in the park and fireworks.\n\nThe town has a soccer team, Drouin Dragons Soccer Club, playing in the Gippsland Soccer League.\n\nThe town has an Australian Rules football team playing in the Gippsland Football League.\n\nDrouin has a picnic horse-racing club, the Drouin Picnic Racing Club, which holds two race meetings a year with the Drouin Cup on Boxing Day (26 December). The racecourse is set on a golf course.\n\nGolfers play at the Drouin Golf and Country Club on Mcglones Road.\n\nSince 1989, Drouin's sister city has been Barrhead, Alberta, Canada.\n\nDrouin's large retail stores include a Woolworths supermarket and a Coles supermarket.\nOther businesses in the town include fast food businesses, hairdressers, restaurants, Tattersall's, and Westpac Bank.\n\nSeveral of the local businesses have relocated in recent times from the southern side of the shopping precinct on Princes Way (next to the railway station), due to land acquisition for the construction of a multistory retail shopping complex. Abbey's Cafe closed down, and the long-standing Drouin Cycles moved to a location on the other side of Princes Way.\n\nDrouin is serviced by three local papers—The weekly \"Warragul and Drouin Gazette\", \"The Trader\" and the independent monthly and online paper the \"Warragul & Baw Baw Citizen\".\n\nAccording to the Warragul Regional Newspapers website, The \"Gazette\" and \"The Trader\" are distributed to locations from as far as Pakenham to Moe and from Poowong to Noojee.\n\n\"The Warragul Citizen\" was established in 2011 as a quarterly print paper before becoming bimonthly in 2012, covering Warragul, Drouin and Yarragon. The paper's online news offering started in late 2011 and covers all of Baw Baw. The paper moved to being online-only in 2013, printing its last physical edition in February. It returned to print as a monthly tabloid covering all of Baw Baw in July 2014, changing its name to the \"Warragul & Baw Baw Citizen\".\n\nWest Gippsland Community Radio (3BBR) is based in Drouin.\n\nThe radio reception available in Drouin also includes many of the Melbourne commercial stations (such as 105.1 Triple M, Smooth 91.5, 3AW 693, Nova 100), ABC Broadcasters (774 ABC Melbourne, 96.7 Triple J and 100.7 ABC Gippsland) and Gippsland commercial stations 531 3GG, 94.3 Star FM, 99.5 TRFM and Gold 1242.\n\nFree-to-air digital television signals containing programs from ABC TV, SBS TV, Southern Cross Nine, Prime7 and WIN TV are broadcast to the area from Mount Tassie in the Strzelecki Ranges, 68 km southeast of Drouin. Television transmissions from Mount Dandenong for the Melbourne market (Seven, Nine and Ten) can be received in Drouin and Warragul with a suitable roof-top antenna.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819705", "title": "Makhuwa language", "text": "Makhuwa language\n\nMakhuwa (\"Emakhuwa\"; also spelt Makua and Macua) is the primary Bantu language of northern Mozambique. It is spoken by 4 million Makua people, who live north of the Zambezi River, particularly in Nampula Province, which is virtually entirely ethnically Makua. It is the most widely spoken indigenous language of Mozambique.\n\nApart from the languages in the same group, eMakhuwa is distinguished from other Bantu languages by the loss of consonant + vowel prefixes in favour of \"e\"; compare \"epula\", \"rain\", with Tswana \"pula\".\n\nLong and short vowels are used for \"i, e, a, o, u\", which is unusually sparse for a Bantu language:\n\n\nThe consonants are more complex: postalveolar \"tt\" and \"tth\" exist, both \"p\" and \"ph\" are used. Both \"x\" (English \"sh\") and \"h\" exist while \"x\" varies with \"s\". Regionally, there are also \"θ\" (the \"th\" of English \"thorn\"), \"ð\" (the \"th\" of English \"seethe\"), \"z\" and \"ng\". In eLomwe, for instance, the \"-tt-\" of eMakhuwa is represented by a \"ch\" as in English \"church\".\n\nMakhuwa is closely related to Lomwe.\n\nThe names of the dialects vary in different sources. The shibboleth or distinctive variant in the dialects is the treatment of the \"s\":\n\n\nMaho (2009) lists the following dialects:\n\n\nMutual intelligibility between these is limited. Central Makhuwa (\"Makhuwa-Makhuwana\") is the basis of the standard language. \"Ethnologue\" lists Central Makhuwa, Meetto–Ruvuma, Marrevone–Enahara, and Esaka as separate languages, and Chirima as six languages.\n\nThe population figures are from \"Ethnologue\" for 2006. They tally 3.1 million speakers of Central Makhuwa and 3.5 million of the other varieties, though the \"Ethnologue\" article for Central Makhuwa covers Marrevone and Enahara, so these might be double counted.\n\n\"Muluku Onnalavuliha Àn'awe - Ipantte sikosolasiwe sa Biblia\" (\"God speaks to his children\" - extracts from the Scriptures for children) Aid to the Church in Need. Edição em Macúa / eMakhuwa) Editorial Verbo Divino, Estella, Navarra, 1997.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819713", "title": "Marine Geology (journal)", "text": "Marine Geology (journal)\n\nMarine Geology is a peer-reviewed scientific journal about marine geology published by Elsevier. About its scope the journal states \"We accept papers on subjects as diverse as seafloor hydrothermal systems, beach dynamics, early diagenesis, microbiological studies in sediments, palaeoclimate studies and geophysical studies of the seabed.\".\n"}
{"id": "1819715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819715", "title": "Marine geology", "text": "Marine geology\n\nMarine geology or geological oceanography is the study of the history and structure of the ocean floor. It involves geophysical, geochemical, sedimentological and paleontological investigations of the ocean floor and coastal zone. Marine geology has strong ties to geophysics and to physical oceanography.\n\nMarine geological studies were of extreme importance in providing the critical evidence for sea floor spreading and plate tectonics in the years following World War II. The deep ocean floor is the last essentially unexplored frontier and detailed mapping in support of both military (submarine) objectives and economic (petroleum and metal mining) objectives drives the research.\n\nThe Ring of Fire around the Pacific Ocean with its attendant intense volcanism and seismic activity poses a major threat for disastrous earthquakes, tsunamis and volcanic eruptions. Any \"early warning\" systems for these disastrous events will require a more detailed understanding of marine geology of coastal and island arc environments.\n\nThe study of littoral and deep sea sedimentation and the precipitation and dissolution rates of calcium carbonate in various marine environments has important implications for global climate change.\n\nThe discovery and continued study of mid-ocean rift zone volcanism and hydrothermal vents, first in the Red Sea and later along the East Pacific Rise and the Mid-Atlantic Ridge systems were and continue to be important areas of marine geological research. The extremophile organisms discovered living within and adjacent to those hydrothermal systems have had a pronounced impact on our understanding of life on Earth and potentially the origin of life within such an environment.\n\nOceanic trenches are hemispheric-scale long but narrow topographic depressions of the sea floor. They also are the deepest parts of the ocean floor.\n\nThe Mariana Trench (or Marianas Trench) is the deepest known submarine trench, and the deepest location in the Earth's crust itself. It is a subduction zone where the Pacific Plate is being subducted under the Mariana Plate. The bottom of the trench is further below sea level than Mount Everest is above sea level.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819719", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819719", "title": "Fishponds", "text": "Fishponds\n\nFishponds is a large outer suburb in the northeast of the English city of Bristol. It is approximately from Bristol city centre. It has two large Victorian era parks: Eastville Park and Vassall's Park (formerly the Vassall's Family estate, also known locally as Oldbury Court). The River Frome runs through both parks, with the Frome Valley Walkway running along it. A restored mill can be found at Snuff Mills near the Vassall's Park end of the river. It has retained its original waterwheel, which can still be seen and heard turning. Eastville Park has its own large boating lake, with central wildlife reserves.\n\nFishponds is mainly residential through which two main bus routes pass. Housing is typically of the terraced Victorian variety. The high street has many shops, such a butchers, charity shops and takeaways as well as Lidl, Aldi and Morrisons supermarkets. There is a small student population due to the presence of the Glenside campus of the University of the West of England.\n\nThe name of this area of Bristol derives from when it was, like nearby Soundwell, a quarry district. The empty quarries were then filled and there were many large fishponds in the area which have since been filled in. There was one pond remaining until the mid-1970s, when it was officially closed, a popular swimming area, named \"The Lido\" by locals. It is now owned by a private angling club.\n\nThere are currently sixteen pubs in Fishponds, most of which date from the Victorian era. Two are modern conversions; the \"Old Post Office\", and the \"VanDyke\", built as a 1200 seat cinema in 1926, it closed in 1973. The \"Star\" (built 1853), was formerly the headquarters of Bristol Rovers football club when they played as the Black Arabs in the 1890s. \n\nOthers include the \"Farriers Arms\", now closed and boarded up (built 1872), \"Railway Tavern\" (built 1867), \"Fishponds Tavern\", now converted to two houses (built 1904), \"Full Moon\", now the \"New Moon\" (built 1850), \"Golden Lion\" (built 1883), \"Cross Keys\" now closed (built 1853), \"Cross Hands\" (built 1853), \"Old Tavern\" now closed (built 1899), \"Greyhound\" (built 1883), \"Spotted Cow\" (built 1883), \"Portcullis\" (built 1853), the \"Warwick Arms\" (built 1906), and the \"Oldbury Court\" (built 1957). Most are along the Fishponds Road running from Downend and Staple Hill to the north down towards Eastville to the south.\n\nFishponds is principally served by First West of England buses 48/48A/49, 17, Y2 & Y5, with 5 and 6 & 7 serving the outskirts.\n\nFishponds railway station was open from 1866 until closure in 1965 and included a shunting line for Fishponds built locomotives of the Avonside Locomotive Works to join the main line. The Bristol & Bath Railway Path now runs down the old line, and can be accessed at several points in Fishponds. The Bristol Tramway also operated from Old Market to Fishponds tram terminus from 1897 to 1941. The suburb, like most of eastern Bristol, is currently unserved by rail. The two nearest stations to Fishponds are Stapleton Road railway station and Filton Abbey Wood railway station. The reopening of the Henbury loop line will include the reopening of two railway stations in north Bristol, Henbury and North Filton. The latter will be a short distance west of Fishponds.\n\nFishponds is within the city, county and unitary authority of Bristol. Most of Fishponds falls within the Frome Vale council ward. The southern part falls within the Hillfields ward, and the western part falls within the Eastville ward.\nThe outskirts of Fishponds to the south comprise Chester Park and Mayfield Park. Fishponds is bordered by five suburbs: Downend, Staple Hill, St. George, Eastville and Stapleton. At the 2011 census the Greater Fishponds area had a population of 37,575.\n\nThe area of Fishponds was once covered by the Royal Forest of Kingswood. The forest was progressively reduced and developed over the centuries, with Fishponds first recorded as the \"Newe Pooles\" in 1610, and subsequently \"Fish Ponds\" by 1734. By the 17th century it was a thriving village with numerous stone built cottages for miners and quarrymen who quarried for coal and pennant stone. The village grew up around the two pools formed from the old quarries, but both were filled in by 1839.\n\nDuring the mid-to-late 19th century, Fishponds established a large manufacturing industry along Lodge Causeway and Filwood Road.\n\nFishponds has been the site for several metal foundries, including George Adlam & Sons founded in the 1830s and Parnall & Sons, who had a foundry and scale works in Fishponds and undertook manufacture of weights, measures and shop fittings. The company would later go on to fit out ocean liner passenger compartments on the RMS Britannic in 1929 and the famous QE2 in the 1960s.\n\nThe railway was built through Fishponds in 1835, and later included a shunting line for Fishponds built locomotives of the Avonside Locomotive Works to join the main line. Peckett and Sons also built locomotives at the Atlas Works towards Speedwell, whose engines joined the line at Clay Hill until the company closed in 1961.\n\nFrom 1894 Palmer Bros biscuit and cake manufacturers operated on two sites on Fishponds Road, including the factory which is now part of the City Glass Company. Webers chocolates on Goodneston Road was opened in 1914 and produced chocolates for 50 years, having had production lines alongside Oerlikon 20mm cannons during World War II.\n\nStraker-Squire opened a large factory on Lodge Causeway in 1906, and was a major producer of early London Buses, with the factory in Fishponds supplying 70% of market by 1909. The company also produced trucks and successfully raced a number of its own car designs, including the 2.8 litre 15, dubbed 'PDQ' (Pretty Damn Quick), which in 1912 took the flying mile record at Brooklands over . The company moved to London in 1919.\n\nThe aeronautical industry first came to Fishponds in 1914 when Brazil Straker on Lodge Causeway began building Rolls Royce aircraft engines for the RFC in World War I. Cosmos Engineering bought the firm and Roy Fedden designed the Cosmos Mercury engine before the company was forced into bankruptcy and subsequently taken over by the Bristol Aeroplane Company in 1920. The site was subsequently acquired by Parnall & Sons who from 1941 produced aircraft components for a range of RAF aircraft including wings for De Havilland Tiger Moths and fuselages for Short Stirling bombers. \n\nPostwar, Parnall & Sons continued manufacturing aircraft interiors and fuselages until about 1960. Today, Diamonite Aircraft Furnishings on Goodneston Road is supplying some of the world's best aircraft interiors, including that for the Russian President Vladimir Putin.\n\nPountney & Co moved to Fishponds in 1905 and opened a large factory on Lodge Causeway. The factory was an entirely new labour saving design and the company produced a range of domestic and luxury ceramics which were exported across the world. The Royal Cauldron name was acquired in 1962, but by then the factory was suffering from lack of investment and the company went bankrupt in 1971. The factory was subsequently pulled down and the site is now occupied by the Lodge Causeway Trading Estate.\n\nE. S. & A. Robinson opened a large cardboard box factory at Filwood Road in 1922. A subsidiary, Robinson's Waxed Paper Co. Ltd, built a new factory across the road in 1929. In World War II the company produced aircraft components for the Bristol Aeroplane Company. Robinson's merged to become the Dickinson Robinson Group in 1966 and finally closed, after further takeovers and mergers, in 1996. The two sites are now owned by Graphic Packaging and Zanetti & Company Ltd stone and marble masons, whose products and floors can be found in airports, shops and railway stations throughout the UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819724", "title": "Moka District", "text": "Moka District\n\nMoka () is a district of Mauritius, situated in the central plateau of the island. The district has an area of 230.5 km2 and the population estimate was at 83,251 as of 31 December 2015.\n\nThe Moka District include different regions; however, some regions are further divided into different suburbs. Note that the statistics do not take into account that Ripailles was created out of Nouvelle Découverte and that Pailes was absorbed by Port-Louis Municipal Council in 2011 following the new Local Government Act.\n\nFrench international schools:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819727", "title": "Cork North-Central (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Cork North-Central (Dáil constituency)\n\nCork North-Central is a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas. The constituency elects 4 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election is the single transferable vote method of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was created under the terms of the Electoral (Amendment) Act 1980, taking in parts of the former Cork City and Cork Mid constituencies. It was first used at the 1981 general election as a 5-seat constituency. It was reduced to 4 seats for the 2007 general election.\n\nIt is made up of the electoral areas of Cork City Council north of the River Lee, namely Cork North Central, Cork North East and Cork North West, and much of the Blarney electoral area of Cork County Council. At the 2016 general election, the Bishopstown, Gillabbey, Glasheen and Mardyke areas of Cork city were moved from the Cork South-Central constituency, while the townlands of Dromore, Kilcullen, Kilshannig and Mountrivers were moved to the Cork North-West constituency.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2013 defines the constituency as:\n\nA by-election was held in the constituency on 29 November 2019, to fill the seat vacated by Billy Kelleher on his election to the European Parliament in May 2019.\n\nFollowing the death of Labour Party TD Gerry O'Sullivan, a by-election was held on 10 November 1994. The seat was won by the Democratic Left candidate Kathleen Lynch.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819730", "title": "Cephisodotus the Elder", "text": "Cephisodotus the Elder\n\nCephisodotus or Kephisodotos (, flourished about 400 - c. 360 BC) was a Greek sculptor, perhaps the father or an uncle of Praxiteles, one of whose sculptor sons was Cephisodotus the Younger. \n\nThe one noted work of his was \"Eirene (Peace) bearing the infant Ploutos (Wealth)\", ca 380-370 BC, of which a Roman point copy exists at the Glyptothek, Munich, and fragments in various collections. The \"Eirene\", commissioned by the city of Athens and set up on the Areopagus, was attributed to Cephisodotus by Pausanias in the 2nd century AD. \n\nCephisodotus also made, as did his son, a figure of Hermes carrying the child Dionysus, unless ancient critics have made two works of one. He sculpted certain statues for the city of Megalopolis, founded by Epaminondas in 369 BC; Pausanias noted them in its principal temple in the 2nd century AD. \n\nTwo heads long thought to be feminine and inserted in female busts, one formerly in the Lansdowne collection and the other in the Massarenti collection, Rome, now recognized to be of Apollo, were attributed to Cephisodotus by Dorothy Kent Hill in 1974.\n"}
{"id": "1819733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819733", "title": "Agranulocyte", "text": "Agranulocyte\n\nAgranulocytes or nongranulocytes, also mononuclear leukocytes, are one of the two types of white blood cells, also known as leukocytes. The other type of white blood cells are known as granulocytes. Agranular cells are noted by the absence of granules in their cytoplasm, which distinguishes them from granulocytes. The two types of agranulocytes in the blood circulation are lymphocytes and monocytes, and these make up about 35% of the hematologic blood values. A third type of agranulocyte, the macrophage, is formed in the tissue when monocytes leave the circulation and differentiate into macrophages..\n\nLymphocytes are much more common in the lymphatic system, and include natural killer T-cells. The blood has three types of lymphocytes: B cells, T cells and natural killer cells (NK cells). B cells make antibodies that bind to pathogens to enable their destruction. CD4+ (helper) T cells co-ordinate the immune response (they are what becomes defective in an HIV infection). CD8+ (cytotoxic) T cells and natural killer cells are able to kill cells of the body that are infected by a virus. T cells are crucial to the immune response because they possess a unique 'memory' system which allows them to remember past invaders and prevent disease when a similar invader is encountered again.\nMonocytes share the phagocytosis function of neutrophils, but are much longer lived as they have an additional role: they present pieces of pathogens to T cells so that the pathogens may be recognized again and killed, or so that an antibody response may be mounted. Monocytes are also known as macrophages after they migrate from the bloodstream and enter tissue.\n\nThe granulocytes are neutrophils, eosinophils, basophils, and mast cells.\n"}
{"id": "1819736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819736", "title": "Final topology", "text": "Final topology\n\nIn general topology and related areas of mathematics, the final topology (or strong, colimit, coinduced, or inductive topology) on a set formula_1, with respect to a family of functions into formula_1, is the finest topology on formula_1 that makes those functions continuous.\n\nThe dual notion is the initial topology, which for a given family of functions from a set formula_1 is the coarsest topology on formula_1 that makes those functions continuous.\n\nGiven a set formula_1 and a family of topological spaces formula_7 with functions\nthe final topology formula_9 on formula_1 is the finest topology such that each\nis continuous. Explicitly, the final topology may be described as follows: a subset \"U\" of \"X\" is open if and only if formula_12 is open in formula_7 for each formula_14.\n\n\nA subset of formula_1 is closed/open if and only if its preimage under \"f\" is closed/open in formula_7 for each \"i\" ∈ \"I\".\n\nThe final topology on \"X\" can be characterized by the following characteristic property: a function formula_21 from formula_1 to some space formula_23 is continuous if and only if formula_24 is continuous for each \"i\" ∈ \"I\".\nBy the universal property of the disjoint union topology we know that given any family of continuous maps \"f\" : \"Y\" → \"X\", there is a unique continuous map\nIf the family of maps \"f\" \"covers\" \"X\" (i.e. each \"x\" in \"X\" lies in the image of some \"f\") then the map \"f\" will be a quotient map if and only if \"X\" has the final topology determined by the maps \"f\".\n\nIn the language of category theory, the final topology construction can be described as follows. Let \"Y\" be a functor from a discrete category \"J\" to the category of topological spaces Top that selects the spaces \"Y\" for \"i\" in \"J\". Let Δ be the diagonal functor from Top to the functor category Top (this functor sends each space \"X\" to the constant functor to \"X\"). The comma category (\"Y\" ↓ Δ) is then the category of cones from \"Y\", i.e. objects in (\"Y\" ↓ Δ) are pairs (\"X\", \"f\") where \"f\" : \"Y\" → \"X\" is a family of continuous maps to \"X\". If \"U\" is the forgetful functor from Top to Set and Δ′ is the diagonal functor from Set to Set then the comma category (\"UY\" ↓ Δ′) is the category of all cones from \"UY\". The final topology construction can then be described as a functor from (\"UY\" ↓ Δ′) to (\"Y\" ↓ Δ). This functor is left adjoint to the corresponding forgetful functor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819739", "title": "139 (number)", "text": "139 (number)\n\n139 (One hundred [and] thirty-nine) is the natural number following 138 and preceding 140.\n\n139 is the 34th prime number. It is a twin prime with 137. Because 141 is a semiprime, 139 is a Chen prime. 139 is the smallest prime before a prime gap of length 10.\n\nThis number is the sum of five consecutive prime numbers (19 + 23 + 29 + 31 + 37).\n\nIt is the smallest factor of 64079. It is also the smallest factor of the first nine terms of the Euclid–Mullin sequence, making it the tenth term.\n\n139 is a happy number and a strictly non-palindromic number.\n\n\n\n139 is also:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819748", "title": "National Youth Alliance", "text": "National Youth Alliance\n\nThe National Youth Alliance (NYA) was an American right-wing political organization founded on November 15, 1968, at the Army and Navy Club by Willis Carto, head of the right-wing Liberty Lobby. The aim of the group was to recruit students to counter liberal and Marxist groups on college campuses like Students for a Democratic Society. The NYA emerged from an earlier group connected to Willis Carto known as the Youth for Wallace, which had supported segregationist Governor George Wallace's bid for president as American Independent Party candidate in 1968.\n\nWillis Carto was known to be a devotee of the writings of Francis Parker Yockey, a neo-Nazi writer during the post-World War II era who revered Adolf Hitler. Yockey's best known book, \"\", was adopted by Carto as his own guiding ideology and used as the philosophical basis of the National Youth Alliance.\n\nOne of the members of the National Youth Alliance was William Luther Pierce, previously a prominent figure in the National Socialist White People's Party (NSWPP), the successor organisation to the American Nazi Party (ANP) that fell apart after the August 1967 assassination of its leader George Lincoln Rockwell. Pierce joined the National Youth Alliance in 1970 after leaving the NSWPP.\n\nBy 1971, a rift had developed between Carto and Pierce. Accusations by Carto emerged alleging that Pierce had stolen the mailing list of his Liberty Lobby organization and used it to send letters attacking Carto's group. The group split into factions, with Pierce and his supporters forming the National Alliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819750", "title": "Action of 14 April 1655", "text": "Action of 14 April 1655\n\nThe Action of 14 April 1655 took place at Porto Farina (now Ghar el-Melh) in northern Tunisia, when an English fleet under Robert Blake destroyed the vessels of several Barbary corsairs. It achieved little direct effect, although it was the first time that ships alone defeated shore fortifications.\n\nEarly in 1655, Blake sent a demand to the Bey of Tunis for the return of an English merchant ship and English prisoners, plus an indemnity and a future agreement but was refused. After sailing back and forth between Sardinia, Tunis, and Sicily for nearly two months and sending the demands again, he arrived on 13 April at Porto Farina, where the Barbary ships had gathered for their intended voyage to the Dardanelles to help the Turks that season. The next day, his first division attacked the Barbary ships, boarding and burning them by 8 am, while his second division of larger ships attacked the forts, silencing them by 11 am. This was the first time that ships alone had defeated shore fortifications. English casualties were 25 killed and 40 wounded. The Bey still refused his demands, but Blake's attack helped the Venetians in their battle against the Muslim states two months later at the Action of 21 June 1655. The Ottomans would improve Porto Farina's fortifications over the next decade.\n\nFirst Division<br>\n\"Newcastle\" 40<br>\n\"Kentish\" 40<br>\n\"Taunton\" 36<br>\n\"Foresight\" 36<br>\n\"Amity\" 30<br>\n\"Princess Mary\" 34<br>\n\"Pearl\" 22<br>\n\"Mermaid\" 22<br>\n\"Merlin\" 24<br>\nSecond Division<br>\n\"George\" 60<br>\n\"Andrew\" 54<br>\n\"Plymouth\" 50<br>\n\"Worcester\" 46<br>\n\"Unicorn\" 54<br>\n\"Bridgewater\" 50<br>\n\"Success\" 24<br>\n\n9 ships hauled ashore (??) - Captured and burnt\n"}
{"id": "1819764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819764", "title": "Lufira River", "text": "Lufira River\n\nThe Lufira River is a tributary of the Lualaba River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\n\nThe Lufira rises in the Shaba plateau south of Likasi.\nThe river was dammed in 1926 at Mwadingusha near Likasi to form Lake Tshangalele, a reservoir for a hydroelectric generator supplying power for copper smelting.\nIt flows northwards through the Bia Mountains for about , joining the Lualaba in Lake Kisale.\n"}
{"id": "1819765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819765", "title": "Lubudi River (Lualaba tributary)", "text": "Lubudi River (Lualaba tributary)\n\nThe Lubudi River is a tributary of the Lualaba River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\nThe Lubudi rises near the Zambian border southwest of Kolwezi. It flows north and northeast to join the Lualaba from the left where the southern Katanga plateau drops into the Upemba Depression, near Bukama.\n\nAround 1800 the copper mines on the Lubudi river were part of the Lunda Empire. The people delivered copper to the Emperor (\"Mwant Yav\") as tribute, but also sold copper bars in exchange for food such as dried fish and manioc flour.\nIn the early nineteenth century the villagers on the upper Lubudi were subject to the Mushima chief, an ally of the king of Samba.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819766", "title": "Theresienstadt Ghetto", "text": "Theresienstadt Ghetto\n\nTheresienstadt (Czech: ) was a hybrid concentration camp and ghetto established by the SS during World War II in the fortress town Terezín, located in the Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (a German-occupied region of Czechoslovakia). Theresienstadt served two main purposes: it was simultaneously a waystation to the extermination camps, and a \"retirement settlement\" for elderly and prominent Jews to mislead their communities about the Final Solution. Its conditions were deliberately engineered to hasten the death of its prisoners, and the ghetto also served a propaganda role. Unlike other ghettos, the exploitation of forced labor was not economically significant.\n\nThe ghetto was established by a transport of Czech Jews in November 1941. The first German and Austrian Jews arrived in June 1942; Dutch and Danish Jews came beginning in 1943 and prisoners of a wide variety of nationalities were sent to Theresienstadt in the last months of the war. About 33,000 people died at Theresienstadt, mostly from malnutrition and disease. More than 88,000 people were held there for months or years before being deported to extermination camps and other killing sites; the Jewish self-administration's role in choosing those to be deported has attracted significant controversy. Including 4,000 of the deportees who survived, the total number of survivors was around 23,000.\n\nTheresienstadt was known for its relatively rich cultural life, including concerts, lectures, and clandestine education for children. The fact that it was governed by a Jewish self-administration as well as the large number of \"prominent\" Jews imprisoned there facilitated the flourishing of cultural life. This spiritual legacy has attracted the attention of scholars and sparked interest in the ghetto. In the postwar period, a few of the SS perpetrators and Czech guards were put on trial, but the ghetto was generally forgotten by the Soviet authorities. The Terezín Ghetto Museum is visited by 250,000 people each year.\n\nThe fortress town of Theresienstadt () is located in the north-west region of Bohemia, across the river from the city of Leitmeritz () and about north of Prague. Founded on 22 September 1784 on the orders of the Habsburg monarch Joseph II, it was named Theresienstadt, after his mother Maria Theresa of Austria. Theresienstadt was used as a military base by Austria-Hungary and later by the First Czechoslovak Republic after 1918, while the \"Small Fortress\" across the river was a prison. Following the Munich Agreement in September 1938, Germany annexed the Sudetenland (German-speaking region of Czechoslovakia). Although Leitmeritz was ceded to Germany, Theresienstadt remained in the Czechoslovak rump state until the German invasion of the Czech lands on 15 March 1939. The Small Fortress became a Gestapo prison in 1940 and the fortress town became a Wehrmacht military base, with about 3,500 soldiers and 3,700 civilians, largely employed by the army, living there in 1941.\n\nIn October 1941, as the Reich Main Security Office (RSHA) was planning transports of Jews from Germany, Austria, and the Protectorate to the ghettos in Nazi-occupied Eastern Europe, a meeting was held in which it was decided to convert Theresienstadt into a transit center for Czech Jews. Those present included Adolf Eichmann, leader of the RSHA section IV B 4 (Jewish affairs) and Hans Günther, the director of the Central Office for Jewish Emigration in Prague. Reinhard Heydrich, the RSHA chief, approved of Theresienstadt as a location for the ghetto. At the Wannsee Conference on 20 January 1942, Heydrich announced that Theresienstadt would be used to house Jews over the age of 65 from the Reich, as well as those who had been severely wounded fighting for the Central Powers in World War I or won the Iron Cross 1st Class or a higher decoration during that war. These Jews could not plausibly perform forced labor, and therefore Theresienstadt helped conceal the true nature of deportation to the East. Later, Theresienstadt also came to house \"prominent\" Jews whose disappearance in an extermination camp could have drawn attention from abroad. To lull victims into a false sense of security, the SS advertised Theresienstadt as a \"spa town\" where Jews could retire, and encouraged them to sign fraudulent home purchase contracts, pay \"deposits\" for rent and board, and surrender life insurance policies and other assets.\n\nOn 24 November 1941, the first trainload of deportees arrived at the Sudeten barracks in Theresienstadt; they were 342 young Jewish men whose task was to prepare the town for the arrival of thousands of other Jews beginning 30 November. Another transport of 1,000 men arrived on 4 December; this included Jakob Edelstein and the original members of the Council of Elders. Deportees to the ghetto had to surrender all possessions except for of luggage, which they had to carry with them from the railway station at Bauschowitz (Bohušovice), away; the walk was difficult for elderly and ill Jews, many of whom died on the journey. After arriving, prisoners were sent to the (), where they were registered and deprived of their remaining possessions.\n\nThe 24 November and 4 December transports, consisting mostly of Jewish craftsmen, engineers, and other skilled workers of Zionist sympathies, were known as the \"Aufbaukommando\" (Work Detail) and their members were exempt from deportation until September 1943. The members of the \"Aufbaukommando\" used creative methods to improve the infrastructure of the ghetto and prepare it to house an average of 40,000 people during its existence. The construction project was funded by stolen Jewish property. When the first transport arrived, there was only one vat for coffee with a capacity of 300L; by the next year, there were sufficient kettles to make 50,000 cups of ersatz coffee in two hours. The waterworks often broke down during in the first months due to inadequate capacity. To improve potable water supply, and so everyone could wash daily, workers drilled wells and overhauled the pipe system. The Germans provided the materials for these improvements, largely to reduce the chance of communicable disease spreading beyond the ghetto, but Jewish engineers directed the projects.\n\nJews lived in the eleven barracks in the fortress, while civilians continued to inhabit the 218 civilian houses. Segregation between the two groups was strictly enforced and resulted in harsh punishments on Jews who left their barracks. By the end of the year, 7,365 people had been deported to the ghetto, of whom 2,000 were from Brno and the rest from Prague.\n\nThe first transport from Theresienstadt left on 9 January 1942 for the Riga Ghetto. It was the only transport whose destination was known to the deportees; other transports simply departed for \"the East\". The next day, the SS publicly hanged nine men for smuggling letters out of the ghetto, an event that caused widespread outrage and disquiet. The first transports targeted mostly able-bodied people. If one person in a family were selected for a transport, family members would typically volunteer to accompany them, which has been analyzed as an example of family solidarity or social expectations. From June 1942, the SS interned elderly and \"prominent\" Jews from the Reich at Theresienstadt. Due to the need to accommodate these Jews, the non-Jewish Czechs living in Theresienstadt were expelled, and the town was closed off by the end of June. In May, the self-administration had reduced rations for the elderly in order to increase the food available to hard laborers, as part of its strategy to save as many children and young people as possible to emigrate to Palestine after the war.\n\n101,761 prisoners arrived at Theresienstadt in 1942, causing the population to peak, on 18 September 1942, at 58,491. The death rate also peaked that month with 3,941 deaths. Corpses remained unburied for days and gravediggers carrying coffins through the streets were a regular sight. To alleviate overcrowding, the Germans deported 18,000 mostly elderly people in nine transports in the fall of 1942. Most of the people deported from Theresienstadt in 1942 were killed immediately, either in the Operation Reinhard death camps or at mass execution sites in the Baltic States and Belarus, such as Kalevi-Liiva and Maly Trostenets. Many transports have no known survivors. The Germans selected a small number of healthy young people for forced labor. In all, 42,000 people, mostly Czech Jews, were deported from Theresienstadt in 1942, of whom only 356 survivors are known.\n\nIn January, seven thousand people were deported to Auschwitz concentration camp. During the same month, the Jewish community leaders from Berlin and Vienna arrived, and the leadership was reorganized to include Paul Eppstein, a German Zionist, and Benjamin Murmelstein, an Austrian rabbi; Edelstein was forced to act as Eppstein's deputy. At the beginning of February, Ernst Kaltenbrunner, head of the RSHA, proposed the deportation of an additional five thousand elderly Jews. SS chief Heinrich Himmler refused, due to the increasing need for Theresienstadt as an alibi to conceal information on the Holocaust reaching the Western Allies. There were no more transports from Theresienstadt until the deportation of 5,000 Jews to the Theresienstadt family camp at Auschwitz in September.\nThe inmates were also allowed slightly more privileges, including postal correspondence and the right to receive food parcels. On 24 August 1943, 1,200 Jewish children from the Białystok Ghetto in Poland arrived at Theresienstadt. They refused to be disinfected due to their fear that the showers were gas chambers. This incident was one of the only clues as to what happened to those deported from Theresienstadt. The children were held in strict isolation for six weeks before deportation to Auschwitz; none survived. On 9 November 1943, Edelstein and other ghetto administrators were arrested, accused of covering up the escape of fifty-five prisoners. Two days later, commandant Anton Burger ordered a census of the entire ghetto population, approximately 36,000 people at that time. All inmates regardless of age were required to stand outside in freezing weather from 7 am to 11 pm; 300 people died on the field from exhaustion. Five thousand prisoners, including Edelstein and the other arrested leaders, were sent to the family camp at Auschwitz on 15 and 18 December.\n\n293 Jews arrived at Theresienstadt from Westerbork (in the Netherlands) in April 1943, but the rest of the 4,894 Jews eventually deported from Westerbork to Theresienstadt arrived during 1944. 450 Jews from Denmark—the few who had not escaped to Sweden—arrived in October 1943. The Danish government's inquiries after them prevented their deportation, and eventually the SS authorized representatives of the Danish Red Cross and the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC) to visit Theresienstadt. The RSHA archives were transported to Theresienstadt in July 1943, reducing the space for prisoners, and stored in the Sudeten barracks until they were burned on 17 April 1945 on SS orders.\n\nIn February 1944, the SS embarked on a \"beautification\" () campaign to prepare the ghetto for the Red Cross visit. Many \"prominent\" prisoners and Danish Jews were re-housed in private, superior quarters. The streets were renamed and cleaned; sham shops and a school were set up; the SS encouraged the prisoners to perform an increasing number of cultural activities, which exceeded that of an ordinary town in peacetime. As part of the preparations, 7,503 people were sent to the family camp at Auschwitz in May; the transports targeted sick, elderly, and disabled people who had no place in the ideal Jewish settlement.\n\nFor the remaining prisoners conditions improved somewhat: according to one survivor, \"The summer of 1944 was the best time we had in Terezín. Nobody thought of new transports.\" On 23 June 1944, the visitors were led on a tour through the \"Potemkin village\"; they did not notice anything amiss and the ICRC representative, Maurice Rossel, reported that no one was deported from Theresienstadt. Rabbi Leo Baeck, a spiritual leader at Theresienstadt, stated that \"The effect on our morale was devastating. We felt forgotten and forsaken.\" In August and September, a propaganda film that became known as \"Der Führer schenkt den Juden eine Stadt\" (\"The Führer Gives a City to the Jews\"), was shot, but it was never distributed.\n\nOn 23 September, Eppstein, Zucker, and Murmelstein were told that Theresienstadt's war production was inadequate and as a consequence 5,000 Jews would be deported to a new labor camp run by Zucker. On 27 September, Eppstein was arrested and shot at the Small Fortress for alleged breaches of the law. Murmelstein became Jewish elder and retained the post until the end of the war. The deportation of the majority of the remaining population to Auschwitz—18,401 people in eleven transports—commenced the next day and lasted until 28 October.\n\nPreviously, the self-administration had chosen the people to be deported but now the SS made the selections, ensuring that many members of the Jewish Council, \"Aufbaukommando\" workers, and cultural figures were deported and murdered at Auschwitz. The first two transports removed all former Czechoslovak Army officers, who were thought to be a threat for causing an uprising at Theresienstadt. By November, only 11,000 people were left at Theresienstadt, most of them elderly; 70% were female. That month, the ashes of deceased prisoners were removed by women and children. The remains of 17,000 people were dumped in the Eger River and the remainder of the ashes were buried in pits near Leitmeritz.\n\nTheresienstadt became the destination of transports as the Nazi concentration camps were evacuated. After transports to Auschwitz had ceased, 416 Slovak Jews were sent from Sereď to Theresienstadt on 23 December 1944; additional transports in 1945 brought the total to 1,447. The Slovak Jews told the Theresienstädters about the fate of those deported to the East, but many refused to believe it. 1,150 Hungarian Jews who had survived a death march to Vienna arrived in March. In 1945, 5,200 Jews living in mixed marriages with \"Aryans\", who had been previously protected, were deported to Theresienstadt.\n\nOn 5 February 1945, after negotiations with Swiss politician Jean-Marie Musy, Himmler released a transport of 1,200 Jews (mostly from Germany and Holland) from Theresienstadt to neutral Switzerland; Jews on this transport traveled in Pullman passenger cars, were provided with various luxuries, and had to remove their Star of David badges. Jewish organisations deposited a ransom of 5 million Swiss francs in escrowed accounts. The Danish king Christian X secured the release of the Danish internees from Theresienstadt on 15 April 1945. The White Buses, organised in cooperation with the Swedish Red Cross, repatriated the 423 surviving Danish Jews.\n\nStarting on 20 April, between 13,500 and 15,000 concentration camp prisoners, mostly Jews, arrived at Theresienstadt after surviving death marches from camps about to be liberated by the Allies. The prisoners were in very poor physical and mental shape, and, like the Białystok children, refused disinfection fearing that they would be gassed. They were starving and infected with lice and typhoid fever, an epidemic of which soon raged in the ghetto and claimed many lives. A Theresienstadt prisoner described them as \"no longer people, they are wild animals\".\n\nThe Red Cross took over administration of the ghetto and removed the SS flag on 2 May 1945; the SS fled on 5–6 May. On 8 May, Red Army troops skirmished with German forces outside the ghetto and liberated it at 9 pm. On 11 May, Soviet medical units arrived to take charge of the ghetto; the next day, Jiří Vogel, a Czech Jewish communist, was appointed elder and served until the ghetto was dissolved. Theresienstadt was the only Nazi ghetto liberated with a significant population of survivors. On 14 May, Soviet authorities imposed a strict quarantine to contain the typhoid epidemic; more than 1,500 prisoners and 43 doctors and nurses died around the time of liberation. After two weeks, the quarantine ended and the administration focused on returning survivors to their countries of origin; repatriation continued until 17 August 1945.\n\nTheresienstadt was a hybrid of ghetto and concentration camp, with features of both. It was established by order of the RSHA in 1941 and, unlike other concentration camps, was not administered by the SS Main Economic and Administrative Office. Instead, the SS commandant reported to Hans Günther, the director of the Central Office for Jewish Emigration in Prague, whose superior was Adolf Eichmann. Theresienstadt also fell under the command of SS and Police Leader Karl Hermann Frank, the chief of police in the Protectorate, as it was classified as a SS-and-police-run camp. The SS commandant was in charge of some 28 SS men, 12 civilian employees, the Czech gendarmes who guarded the ghetto, and the Jewish self-administration. The first commandant was Siegfried Seidl, who was replaced by Anton Burger on 3 July 1943. Burger was reassigned and replaced by Karl Rahm in January 1944; Rahm governed the ghetto until the SS fled on 5 May 1945. All of the SS commandants were assigned to Theresienstadt with the rank SS-\"Obersturmführer\".\n\nThe ghetto was guarded by 150–170 Czech gendarmes at one time. The guards, who often smuggled letters and food in return for bribes, were frequently rotated to avoid contacts developing between guards and prisoners. Fourteen of the guards were imprisoned at the Small Fortress for helping or contacting Jews; two died as a result of their imprisonment. The first gendarme commander, Theodor Janeček, was a \"rabid antisemite\" whose behavior \"sometimes surpass[ed] the SS in cruelty\", according to Israeli historian Livia Rothkirchen. Janeček was replaced by Miroslaus Hasenkopf on 1 September 1943. The Ghetto Guard, a police force made up of Jewish prisoners, was formed on 6 December 1941 and reported to the Jewish self-administration. It was reconstituted several times and comprised 420 men at its peak in February 1943.\n\nThe Jewish self-administration or self-government () nominally governed the ghetto. The self-administration included the Jewish elder (), a deputy, and the Council of Elders () and a Central Secretariat beneath which various departments administered life in the ghetto. The first of the Jewish elders of Theresienstadt was Jakob Edelstein, a Zionist leader. Edelstein and his deputy, Otto Zucker, initially planned to convert Theresienstadt into a productive economic center and therefore avoid deportations; they were unaware that the Nazis already planned to deport all the Jews and convert Theresienstadt into a German settlement. Theresienstadt was the only Jewish community in Nazi-occupied Europe that was led by Zionists.\n\nThe self-administration was characterized by excessive bureaucracy. In his landmark study \"Theresienstadt 1941–45\", H. G. Adler's list of all of the departments and sub-departments was 22 pages long. In 1943, when representatives of the Austrian and German Jewish community arrived at the ghetto, the administration was reorganized to include Austrian and German Jews. Paul Eppstein, from Berlin, was appointed as the liaison with the SS command, while Edelstein was obliged to act as his deputy. The SS used the national divisions to sow intrigue and disunity.\n\nThe economy of Theresienstadt was highly corrupt. Besides the \"prominent\" prisoners, young Czech Jewish men had the highest status in the ghetto. As the first prisoners in the ghetto (whether in the \"Aufbaukommando\" or through connections to the \"Aufbaukommando\") most of the privileged positions in the ghetto fell to this group. Those in charge of distributing food typically skimmed off the deliveries to save more for themselves or their friends, which heightened the starvation for elderly Jews in particular. The SS also stole deliveries of food intended for prisoners. Many of the functionaries in the Transport Department enriched themselves by accepting bribes. Powerful individuals attempted, and often succeeded, to exempt their friends from deportation, a fact that was noted by prisoners at the time. Because Czech Zionists had a disproportionate influence in the self-administration, they were often able to secure better jobs and exemptions to transport for other Czech Zionists.\n\nBecause of the unhygienic conditions in the ghetto and shortages of clean water, medicine, and food, many prisoners fell ill. 30% of the ghetto's population was classified as sick with scarlet fever, typhoid, diphtheria, polio, or encephalitis in 1942; cold weather in the fall of that year increased the lice problem. Makeshift hospitals, staffed mostly by female nurses, were organized in each barracks for the most serious cases. Most of the nurses were untrained and had to do all the work, including cleaning sickrooms, disposing of human waste, serving food, and keeping the patients entertained. Although nurses, who were in short supply, were exempt from deportation until October 1944, they faced the danger of contracting disease and had to work 18- to 20-hour days. After the deportations in 1944, the number of nurses was severely reduced and each nurse had to care for 65 or more prisoners.\n\nThe SS dictated quotas for the number of people to be deported by age and nationality. Within this framework, the Transport Department selected which people would be deported. If someone were selected for a transport, it was possible to appeal, but in practice such appeals were rarely accepted. The self-administration's role in organizing transports has led to significant criticism. However, Ruth Bondy argues that the self-administration used its power over transports to save children and young people as much as possible, and the success of this policy is indicated by the fact that 20,000 such individuals remained at Theresienstadt until the deportations in fall 1944, when the SS directly selected individuals for deportation.\n\nOver the lifetime of the ghetto, about 15,000 children lived in Theresienstadt, of whom about 90% perished after deportation. The Youth Welfare Office () was responsible for their housing, care, and education. Before June 1942, when the Czech civilians were evicted from the town, children lived with their parents in the barracks and were left unsupervised during the day. After the eviction, some of the houses were taken over by the Youth Welfare Office for use as children's homes. The intention was to keep the children somewhat insulated from the harsh conditions in the ghetto so that they would not succumb to \"demoralization\". Aided by teachers and helpers recruited from former educators and students, the children lived in collectives of 200–300 per house, separated by language. Within each house, children were assigned to rooms by gender and age. Their housing was superior to that of other inmates and they were also better fed.\nThe leadership of the Youth Welfare Office, including its head, , and Redlich's deputy Fredy Hirsch, were left-wing Zionists with a background in the youth movements. However, Redlich agreed that a good-quality non-Zionist education was preferred to a bad Zionist one. Because of this, the ideological quality of education depended on the inclination of the person who ran the home; this was formalized in a 1943 agreement. According to Czech historian , Zionists regarded the youth homes as hakhshara (preparation) for future life on a kibbutz in Palestine; Rothkirchen argues that the intentional community of the children's homes resembled kibbutzim. Different educators used assimilationism, Communism, or Zionism as the basis of their educational philosophies; Communist philosophy increased after the Red Army's military victories on the Eastern Front in 1943 and 1944.\n\nAlthough education was forbidden, the teachers continued to teach clandestinely general education subjects including Czech, German, history, geography, and mathematics. Study of the Hebrew language was mandatory despite the increased danger to educators if they were caught. Children also participated in cultural activities in the evenings after their lessons. Many of the children's homes produced magazines, of which the best known is \"Vedem\" from Home One (L417). Hundreds of children made drawings under the guidance of the Viennese art therapist Friedl Dicker-Brandeis. According to Rothkirchen, caring for the children was the self-administration's greatest achievement and the drawings left by children were Theresienstadt's \"most precious legacy\".\n\nConditions in the ghetto varied depending on a prisoner's status. Most prisoners had to live in overcrowded collective dormitories with sixty to eighty people per room; men, women, and children lived separately. A few prisoners, especially those who had connections, managed to create private \"cubbyholes\" () in the attics of the barracks. Some \"prominent\" prisoners and Danish Jews were granted private apartments in spring 1944 for the Red Cross visit. Even before the Red Cross visit, \"prominent\" individuals received better living conditions and more food, and their deportation could only be ordered by the SS (not the self-administration), resulting in a significantly higher possibility of surviving.\n\nFood was generally inadequate, but distribution was also inequitable. Those who did not work, mostly the elderly, received 60% less food than heavy laborers, leading many to starve to death. 92% of deaths were among those over sixty, and almost all elderly prisoners who were not deported died at Theresienstadt. Younger people did not face starvation, although many lost weight.\n\nMost Jews between the ages of 16 and 60 or 65 were forced to work an average of 69 hours per week, often in physically demanding jobs. Many women worked as housekeepers, nurses, or in lower-ranking positions in the kitchens, or in the vegetable gardens. Men controlled the administration and also worked in various workshops, including carpentry, leather, and tailoring, and in the mines of Kladno. Some also worked on SS military projects. However, the high population of elderly people and the decrepit state of the ghetto infrastructure prevented the ghetto from becoming a useful industrial center for the German war effort. Over 90% of labor was used for maintenance.\n\nTheresienstadt was characterized by a rich cultural life, especially in 1943 and 1944, which greatly exceeded that in other Nazi concentration camps and ghettos. The inmates were free from the usual rules of Nazi censorship and the ban on \"degenerate art\". The origins began in the spontaneous \"friendship evenings\" organized by the first prisoners in December 1941; many promising artists had arrived in the \"Aufbaukommando\" transports, including the musicians Karel Švenk, Rafael Schächter, and Gideon Klein. Švenk's \"Terezín March\" became the unofficial anthem for the ghetto. Later, the activities were sponsored by the self-administration and organized by the \"Freizeitgestaltung\" (\"Free Time Department\", FZG), led by Otto Zucker.\n\nZucker's department had a wide variety of artists to choose from. Although most performers had to work full-time at other jobs in addition to their creative activity, a few were hired by the FZG. However, the FZG was unusually effective at exempting performers from deportation. Because women were expected to take care of domestic chores in addition to full-time work and men were appointed as the conductors and directors who selected performers, very few women were able to participate in cultural life. Official efforts to improve the quality of performances increased during the \"beautification\" process that began in December 1943.\n\nThe Ghetto Central Library opened in November 1942 and contained 60,000 books and 15 full-time librarians by the end of 1943. It eventually grew to over 100,000 volumes from Jewish libraries all over Europe or brought by prisoners to the ghetto. The library was criticized for the high proportion of Hebrew-language works and the lack of fiction, but prisoners were desperate for any kind of reading material. At least 2,309 lectures were delivered in the ghetto, on a variety of subjects including Judaism, Zionism, art, music, science, and economics, by 489 different people, leading the ghetto to be described as an \"open university\".\n\nThe visual arts were developed by a circle of artists, including Bedřich Fritta, Norbert Troller, , Otto Ungar, and Petr Kien, who were officially employed by the Arts Department of the self-administration to create drawings and graphs of work at Theresienstadt on the orders of the SS. The artists, however, depicted the ghetto's actual conditions in their spare time. Several of these artists were caught smuggling their work out of the ghetto. Accused of \"atrocity propaganda\", they were arrested on 20 July 1944 and tortured at the Small Fortress. Much of their artwork was not rediscovered until many years later, but has been a useful tool for historians to glimpse the ghetto elite as well the widespread misery in the ghetto.\n\nMany musicians performed at the ghetto. Karel Ančerl conducted an orchestra composed largely of professional musicians. Karl Fischer, a Moravian cantor, led various choirs. The Ghetto Swingers performed jazz music, and Viktor Ullmann composed more than 20 works while imprisoned at Theresienstadt, including the opera \"Der Kaiser von Atlantis\". The children's opera \"Brundibár\", composed in 1938 by Hans Krása, was first performed at Theresienstadt on 23 September 1943. A hit, it was performed 55 times (about once a week) until the transports of autumn 1944. The work of the musicians was exploited by the Nazis in the two propaganda films made in the ghetto. Only the social elite could get tickets for events, and attending musical and theatrical performances became a status symbol.\nTheresienstadt was the only Nazi concentration center where religious observance was not banned. Although they were all Jewish according to the Nuremberg Laws, deportees came from a wide variety of strains of Judaism and Christianity; some were atheists. Some communities and individuals, particularly from Moravia, brought their Torah scrolls, Shofar, tefillin, and other religious items with them to the ghetto. Edelstein, who was religious, appointed a team of rabbis to oversee the burial of the dead. The believers, who were largely elderly Jews from Austria and Germany, frequently gathered in makeshift areas to pray on Shabbat. Rabbis and Leo Baeck ministered not just to Jews but to Christian converts and others needing comfort.\n\nTheresienstadt's cultural life has been viewed differently by different prisoners and commentators. Adler stresses that an unusually high number of inmates were culturally active; however, cultural activity could lead to a kind of self-deception about reality. Ullmann believed that the activities represented spiritual resistance to Nazism and a \"spark of humanity\": \"By no means did we sit weeping by the rivers of Babylon; our endeavors in the arts were commensurate with our will to live.\"\n\nIn June 1943, a delegation of the German Red Cross (DRK) visited the ghetto. Despite the fact that the DRK was led by SS doctors who were involved in Nazi human experimentation, the report by accurately described the ghetto's conditions: \"dreadful\" and \"frightfully overcrowded\". Hartmann reported that the prisoners were severely undernourished and medical care was completely inadequate. In July, the Vatican requested and was refused permission to send a delegation to the ghetto.\n\nThe ICRC, having come under increasing pressure from Denmark, Jewish organizations and the Czechoslovak government-in-exile to intervene in favor of Jews, requested to visit Theresienstadt in November 1943. It is unclear to what extent the ICRC valued making an accurate report on Theresienstadt, given that it had access to independent information confirming that prisoners were transported to Auschwitz and murdered there. The Danish government also pressured the Nazis to allow a visit, because of the Danish Jews who had been deported there in late 1943. On a visit to Denmark in November 1943, Eichmann promised the Danish representatives that they would be allowed to visit in the spring of 1944. In late May, Eppstein, Zucker, and other Theresienstadt leaders were allowed to sign SS-dictated letters, which were sent to the Aid and Rescue Committee, a Jewish organization in Budapest. Rudolf Kastner, the leader of the committee, forwarded the letter abroad, causing an unduly positive impression of Theresienstadt to develop outside German-occupied territory. The commission that visited on June 23, 1944, included Maurice Rossel, a representative of the ICRC; E. Juel-Henningsen, the head physician at the Danish Ministry of Health; and Franz Hvass, the top civil servant at the Danish Foreign Ministry.\n\nThe visitors spent eight hours inside Theresienstadt, led on a predetermined path and only allowed to speak with Danish Jews and selected representatives, including Paul Eppstein. Driven in a limousine by an SS officer posing as his driver, Eppstein was forced to deliver an SS-written speech describing Theresienstadt as \"a normal country town\" of which he was \"mayor\", and give the visitors fabricated statistical data on the ghetto. He still had a black eye from a beating administered by Rahm, and attempted to warn Rossel that there was \"no way out\" for Theresienstadt prisoners. A soccer game and performance of the children's opera \"Brundibár\" were also staged for the guests. Rossel reported that conditions in the ghetto were favorable—even superior than for civilians in the Protectorate—and that no one was deported from Theresienstadt.\n\nWhile the preparations for the Red Cross visit were underway, the SS had meanwhile ordered a prisoner, probably Jindřich Weil, to write a script for a propaganda film. It was directed by the German Jewish prisoner Kurt Gerron and the Czech filmmaker Karel Pečený under close SS supervision, and edited by Pečený's company, Aktualita. One scene was filmed on 20 January 1944, but most of the filming took place during eleven days between 16 August and 11 September 1944. The film, officially \"Theresienstadt. Ein Dokumentarfilm aus dem jüdischen Siedlungsgebiet\" (\"Theresienstadt: A Documentary Film from the Jewish Settlement Area\"), was dubbed \"Der Führer schenkt den Juden eine Stadt\" (\"The Führer Gives a City to the Jews\") by Jewish prisoners. Completed on 28 March 1945, the film was intended to discredit reports of the genocide of Jews reaching the Western Allies and neutral countries, but it was only screened four times and did not achieve its objective.\n\nApproximately 141,000 Jews, mostly from the Protectorate, Germany, and Austria, were sent to Theresienstadt before 20 April 1945. The majority came from just five cities: Prague (40,000), Vienna (15,000), Berlin (13,500), Brno (9,000), and Frankfurt (4,000). Between 13,500 and 15,000 survivors of death marches arrived after that date, including some 500 people who were at Theresienstadt twice, which brought the total to 154,000. Before 20 April, 33,521 people died at Theresienstadt, and an additional 1,567 people died between 20 April and 30 June. 88,196 people were deported from Theresienstadt between 9 January 1942 and 28 October 1944. Of prisoners who arrived before 20 April, 17,320 were liberated at Theresienstadt, about 4,000 survived deportation, and 1,630 were rescued before the end of the war. In all, there were about 23,000 survivors.\n\nA further 239 people were transferred to the Small Fortress before 12 October 1944; most were murdered there. 37 others were taken by the Gestapo on 20 February 1945. Before 1945, 37 people escaped, and twelve were recaptured and returned to Theresienstadt; according to Adler it is unlikely that most of the remainder were successful. A further 92 people escaped in early 1945 and 547 departed by their own unauthorized action after the departure of the SS on 5 May.\n\nCzechoslovak authorities prosecuted several SS members who had served at Theresienstadt, including all three commandants. Seidl and Rahm were extradited to Czechoslovakia, tried, convicted, and executed for their crimes. Convicted in absentia and sentenced to death, Burger managed to evade arrest and lived under a false name in West Germany until his death in 1991. The Czech gendarme commander, Theodor Janeček, died in prison in 1946 while awaiting trial. A Czech court in Litoměřice found Miroslaus Hasenkopf, a perimeter guard, guilty of treason and sentenced him to 15 years imprisonment; he died in prison in 1951.\n\nIn 1947, it was decided to convert the Small Fortress into a memorial to the victims of Nazi persecution. Adler rescued a large number of documents and paintings from Theresienstadt after the war and lodged them with the Jewish Museum in Prague; this material formed the bedrock of the collections now held at the Jewish Museum in Prague and in Theresienstadt itself. However, the Jewish legacy was not recognized in the post-war era because it did not fit into the Soviet ideology of class struggle promoted in the postwar Czechoslovak Socialist Republic, and discredited the official position of anti-Zionism (exemplified by the 1952 Slánský trial and intensified following the 1967 Six-Day War). Although there were memorial plaques in the former ghetto, none mentioned Jews.\n\nThe Terezín Ghetto Museum was inaugurated in October 1991, after the Velvet Revolution ended Communist rule in Czechoslovakia, as part of the fiftieth anniversary commemorations of the former ghetto. The museum is funded by the Czech Ministry of Culture and includes a section devoted to researching the history of Theresienstadt. In 2001, the director reported that about 250,000 people visit Theresienstadt every year; prominent visitors have included the German presidents Richard von Weizsäcker and Roman Herzog, Israeli presidents Chaim Herzog and Ezer Weizmann, as well as Václav Havel, the President of the Czech Republic. In 2015, former United States Secretary of State Madeleine Albright unveiled a plaque at the former ghetto commemorating her 26 relatives who had been imprisoned there.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819768", "title": "Lukuga River", "text": "Lukuga River\n\nThe Lukuga River is a tributary of the Lualaba River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) that drains Lake Tanganyika. It is unusual in that its flow varies not just seasonally but also due to longer term climate fluctuations.\n\nThe Lukuga runs along the northern edge of the Katanga Plateau.\nThe river leaves Lake Tanganyika at Kalemie and flows through a gap in the highlands westward through the Tanganyika District to join the Lualaba between Kabalo and Kongolo.\nTypically the river accounts for 18% of water loss from the lake, with the rest being due to evaporation.\nThe Lukuga is heavily mineralized.\nThe proportions of ionic contents where the Lukuga River leaves the lake, with magnesium and potassium more prevalent than calcium and sodium, are caused by the Albertine Rift's hydrothermal inputs seen also at the outlets of Lake Kivu and Lake Edward.\n\nIt seems likely that the present hydrological system was established quite recently when the still-active Virunga volcanoes erupted and blocked the northward flow of water from Lake Kivu into Lake Edward, causing it instead to discharge southward into Lake Tanganyika through the Ruzizi River. Before that Lake Tanganyika, or separate sub-basins in what is now the lake, may have had no outlet other than evaporation.\n\nThe Lukuga is of considerable interest to hydrologists, since the volume of water it carries from the lake varies considerably from time to time.\nThe river flow is greatest in May and least in November, corresponding to seasonal fluctuations in the lake level. \nThe river is highly sensitive to longer-term climate variations such as the Neolithic Subpluvial around 4000 BC.\nSince 1965 the outflow has tended to increase, although the total outflow of the Congo has been declining.\n\nThe Lukuga has formed relatively recently, providing a route through which aquatic species of the Congo Basin could colonize Lake Tanganyika.\nThe river is home to hippopotamus and crocodiles.\nThere are low-grade coal deposits along the river's tributaries north of Kalemie and Moluba.\n\nThe Lukuga in the north, Lake Tanganyika, the Luvua River to the south and the Lualaba form a territory that was once occupied by the Hemba people in the western part and the Tumbwe people in the more mountainous east. \nKasangas of the Tumbwe lineage ruled various small states in this region.\nThe lower Lukuga and the Lualaba were natural lines of communication, and the river valleys were densely populated.\nAround 1800, in the second half of the rule of the Luba Emperor Ilunga Sungu, Luba forces launched raids over the Lualaba that at one point reached as far as Kalemie. Some of the Luba settled in the region, and the people around Kalemie were subject to the Luba in the following reigns of Kumwimbe Ngombe and Ilunga Kabale.\n\nThe Luba evolved the concept of the \"fire king\" to rule the peripheral areas of their empire such as the Luvua-Lukuga corridor, with the local ruler being a near-equal of the Luba emperor, sending only occasional tributes. The \"bamdudye\" and \"bakasandji\" secret societies were introduced into the area, providing genesis myths that helped legitimize the fire kings' position. These myths had been adopted and adapted by the Holoholo people of Kalemie by the late nineteenth century.\nThe Hemba state of Kyombo Mkubwa became the main client state of the Luba Empire.\nHowever, by the time Europeans started to penetrate the region, Msiri's son Simbi, advancing from the south and forming alliances with the Hemba rulers against incursions from Tippu Tip, had detached Kyombo Mkubwa from the Luba heartland.\n\nAround 1871 David Livingstone noticed the break in the hills through which the \"Logumba\" passed, and suggested that the river might be an outlet of Lake Tanganyika, and that there could be other outlets further north.\nVerney Lovett Cameron reached the river at the point where it left the lake in May 1874 on his journey across Africa from east to west. He confirmed that it was the only outlet of Lake Tanganyika, but was unable to get a guide to accompany him down the river to verify that it flowed into the Lualaba.\nIn 1876 Henry Morton Stanley visited the lake. When he arrived, the lake level was low and he described the Lukuga as no more than a large creek extending westward for a great distance. However, he agreed that as the lake level rose the Lukuga would act as an outlet.\nIt seems that a sandbar had formed across the river mouth, and the river had silted behind the bar.\n\nIn 1879 Joseph Thomson came to Kasenge from Pambete, travelling through very rough country.\nHe found that the Lukuga creek was a large and fast-flowing river. He followed the course of the river for a few days, but hostile inhabitants of the region blocked his further explorations.\nWhen Hermann von Wissmann reached the river in 1882 he found that the river had become a fast and wide effluent. He also noted that the lake level was below the highest watermark.\n\nAs of 2008, the Lukuga was highly polluted at the point where it entered the Lualaba.\nIn December 2010 the well-known South African kayaker and explorer Hendrik Coetzee was dragged out of his kayak on the Lukuga and killed by a crocodile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819770", "title": "Luama River", "text": "Luama River\n\nThe Luama River is a tributary of the Lualaba River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC).\n\nThe Luama rises in the mountains to the west of Lake Tanganyika, in the Kalemie Territory of Tanganyika District. It flows north and northwest into Kabambare Territory of Maniema, then turns to the southwest, entering the Lualaba above Kasongo.\nThe river has five sources in the mountains, two of which are above in altitude.\nThe headwater regions upstream of Pene Mende include a system of wetlands about in length and covering about . Below these wetlands the river drops down three waterfalls and includes several minor rapids.\nThe Luama enters the Lualaba from the east after the rapids below Kangolo and just before the Lualaba turns northwest in the stretch above Kibombo.\n\nThe Luama River defines the southern boundary of the range of eastern gorillas, which is bounded by the Lualaba river to the west, the Albertine rift to the east and the Lindi River to the north.\n\nThe explorer Henry Morton Stanley visited the river in October 1876. He said of the people: \"They are tolerably hospitable, and permit strangers the free use of their dwellings. The bananas and plantains are very luxuriant, while the Guinea palms supply the people with oil and wine; the forests give them fuel, the rivers fish, and the gardens cassava, groundnuts, and Indian corn\". He said of the lower reaches of the river that as far as the Lualaba the current was from three to six knots and the river was about deep, with a shaly bed.\nStanley followed the river down to the Lualaba, and then followed the Lualaba downstream as it curved away to the west, determining that it was not the Nile as David Livingstone had surmised, but was the upper part of the Congo River.\n\nThe Arab war in the Congo Free State was concluded by a victory by the \"Force Publique\" led by Dhanis and Pnthier on the Luama River on 20 October 1893.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819772", "title": "Ulindi River", "text": "Ulindi River\n\nThe Ulindi River is a tributary of the Lualaba River in the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC). There is a proposal to build a hydroelectric power plant on the river to power a gold mining project.\n\nThe river rises in the east of South Kivu and flows in a northwesterly direction through Maniema, joining the Lualaba downstream from Kindu.\nThe upper Ulindi valley has a richly diverse fauna, including many monkey species, chimpanzees, leopards, buffaloes, elephants and antelopes.\nThe valley has traditionally been occupied by the Lega people, speakers of Kilega, a Bantu language.\nIt is administratively divided into the Mwenga, Shabunda and Pangi territories.\n\nIn 1874 the Ulindi river was visited by the explorer Verney Lovett Cameron, the second European to cross Africa.\nDuring the Congo Free State period, the region was under the control of Arabs from the east coast of Africa. Some of these such as Munie Chabodu and Munie Mtoro were agents of the Free State.\nThe town of Shabunda was established by the Arabs. In 1899 it had an estimated population of 8,000.\n\nIn June 1997 reports surfaced of a massacre of refugees in February that year at a bridge over the Ulindi just north of Shabunda in South Kivu.\nThe refugees included unarmed civilians and armed Hutu fighters who had been involved in the 1994 massacre of Tutsis in Rwanda. They were attacked by Rwandan Tutsi troops who were fighting with the rebel forces of Laurent Kabila to overthrow the dictator Mobutu Sese Seko.\nWitnesses said that hundreds of people were killed.\n\nIn April 2009 Banro Corporation, a Canadian gold miner, reported results of a feasibility study for a hydroelectric power plant on the river. The project would exploit a drop in the river over a distance of .\nIt would cost about US$133.8 million, giving a \"green\" source of power for the Twangiza gold project.\nThe mining concessions cover and are located south-southwest of Bukavu.\nThe proven and probable reserve based on a 0.5-gram-per-tonne cutoff grade is 4.54 million ounces of gold.\nThe planned power plant will be in a \"pristine montane forest\", and will impact local fish-farming.\n\nA study showed that 1,860 households living in the area between the Twangiza and Lulimbohwe rivers would be affected, with 1,257 having to be resettled. Most of the people are farmers or artisanal miners.\nIn the rivers downstream of the project about 1,725 workers are engaged in recovery of gold, tin, tungsten and tantalum, in operations controlled by various rebel groups and warlords, often under the protection of local authorities.\nThe illegally extracted metals are sold on the black market.\nDecades of artisanal mining have contaminated the river beds with lead, chromium, arsenic and possibly mercury.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819774", "title": "Judiciary of Australia", "text": "Judiciary of Australia\n\nThe judiciary of Australia comprises judges who sit in federal courts and courts of the States and Territories of Australia. The High Court of Australia sits at the apex of the Australian court hierarchy as the ultimate court of appeal on matters of both federal and State law.\n\nThe large number of courts in Australia have different procedural powers and characteristics, different jurisdictional limits, different remedial powers and different cost structures.\n\nUnder the Australian Constitution, federal judicial power is vested in the High Court of Australia and such other federal courts as may be created by the federal Parliament. These courts include the Federal Court of Australia, the Federal Circuit Court of Australia, and the Family Court of Australia. Federal jurisdiction can also be vested in State courts.\n\nThe Supreme Courts of the states and territories are superior courts of record with general and unlimited jurisdiction within their own state or territory. They can try any justiciable dispute, whether it be for money or not, and whether it be for $1 or $1 billion.\n\nLike the Supreme Courts, the Family Court and Federal Court are superior courts of record, which means that they have certain inherent procedural and contempt powers. But unlike their Supreme Court counterparts, their subject matter jurisdiction must be granted by statute. Under the doctrine of \"accrued jurisdiction\", the Federal Court can, however, rule on issues outside its explicit jurisdiction, provided that they are part of a larger matter that the court does have jurisdiction over.\n\nThe High Court has limited trial powers, but very rarely exercises them. It has ample power to transfer cases started there to another, more appropriate court, so that the High Court can conserve its energies for its appellate functions.\n\nCommon law and equity are administered by the same courts, in a manner similar to that of the Judicature Acts in the United Kingdom. Legal and equitable remedies may be pursued in the one action in the one court.\n\nJudges are appointed by the executive government, without intervention by the existing judiciary. Once appointed, judges have tenure and there are restrictions on their removal from office. For example, a federal judge may not be removed from office except by the Governor-General upon an address of both Houses of Parliament for proved misbehavior. Judges in Australia are appointed by the Executive government of the relevant jurisdiction, and most judges have previously practised as a barrister. Federal judges may only serve until age 70. There is no constitutional limit on the length of service of State court judges, but State laws usually fix a retirement age. For example, in New South Wales, judges must retire at age 72, though they can remain as \"acting judges\" until age 76.\n\nThe hierarchy consists of a variety of courts and tribunals at both the federal and state and territory levels, with the High Court being the highest court in the Australian judicial system. A single body of Australian common law is applied in the various Australian courts, and ultimately determined by the High Court now that appeals to the (British) Judicial Committee of the Privy Council have been abolished.\n\nThe High Court has described the concept of a superior court (and associated 'notions derived from the position of pre-Judicature common law courts') as having 'no ready application in Australia to federal courts.' Despite this, Australian courts are frequently characterised as either 'superior' or 'inferior.' The Federal Court and the Supreme Courts of each State and Territory are generally considered to be superior courts.\n\nThere is no single definition of the term 'superior court' (or 'superior court of record'). In many respects Australian superior courts are similar to the Senior Courts of England and Wales. In Australia, superior courts generally:\n\nInferior courts are those beneath superior courts in the appellate hierarchy, and are generally seen to include the Magistrates and District (or County) Court of each State as well as the Federal Circuit Court. Inferior courts are typically characterised by:\n\nThese courts among them have jurisdiction over Commonwealth law, that is, law made by the Federal parliament of Australia.\n\nThe High Court is the highest court in Australia. It was created by section 71 of the Constitution. It has appellate jurisdiction over all other courts. It also has some original jurisdiction, and has the power of constitutional review. The High Court of Australia is the superior court to all federal courts, and is also the final route of appeal from all state superior courts.\n\nAppeals to the High Court are by special leave only, which is rarely granted. Therefore, for most cases, the appellate divisions of the Supreme Courts of each state and territory and the Federal Court are the ultimate appellate courts. The Full Court of the High Court is the ultimate appeal court for Australia.\n\nAppeals from Australian courts to the Privy Council were initially possible, however the \"Privy Council (Limitation of Appeals) Act 1968\" closed off all appeals to the Privy Council in matters involving federal legislation, and the \"Privy Council (Appeals from the High Court) Act 1975\" closed almost all routes of appeal from the High Court. The \"Australia Act 1986\" eliminated appeals from state Supreme Courts to the Privy Council. Appeals from the High Court to the Privy Council are now only theoretically possible in \"inter se\" matters with leave of the High Court under section 74 of the Constitution; however, the High Court has indicated it will not grant such leave in the future.\n\nThe Federal Court primarily hears matters relating to corporations, trade practices, industrial relations, bankruptcy, customs, immigration and other areas of federal law. The court has original jurisdiction in these areas, and also has the power to hear appeals from a number of tribunals and other bodies (and, in cases not involving family law, from the Federal Circuit Court of Australia.)\n\nThe court is a superior court of limited jurisdiction, but below the High Court of Australia in the hierarchy of federal courts, and was created by the Federal Court of Australia Act in 1976.\n\nDecisions of the High Court are binding on the Federal Court. There is an appeal level of the Federal Court (the \"Full Court\" of the Federal Court), which consists of several judges, usually three but occasionally five in very significant cases.\n\nThe Family Court has jurisdiction over family law matters. It is a superior court of limited jurisdiction and was established in 1975 by the Family Law Act 1975 by the federal parliament. The Commonwealth has power over marriage and divorce under the Constitution. In the 1990s the states referred many of their powers over children of non-married couples to the Commonwealth, which added this power to the Family Court.\n\nUniquely among the states, Western Australia took up the option of establishing its own Family Court in 1975, and in that state all jurisdiction under the Family Law Act 1975 is exercised by the Family Court of Western Australia and not the Family Court of Australia.\n\nThe Family Court is a specialist family law court, involving parental disputes, matrimonial property, child support and other family-related laws. The principles of stare decisis (binding law from higher courts) are the same as for the Federal Court. Appeals from the Family Court are heard by the \"Full Court\" of the Family Court (three to five judges). Appeals from the Full Court lie to the High Court of Australia, though special leave is required. A single judge of the Family Court may hear appeals in family law matters from the Federal Circuit Court of Australia. Appeals from the Federal Circuit Court must go to either of these courts (Federal Court or Family Court), dependent on the area of law.\n\nDecisions of the Full Court of the Federal and Family Courts are binding on Federal Circuit Court judges, as are decisions of these courts on appeal from a Federal Circuit Court judge. In other circumstances, decisions of a single Federal or Family Court judge are not strictly binding; however, these will usually be followed by sentencing.\n\nThe Federal Circuit Court of Australia (formerly known as the Federal Magistrates Court of Australia) is an Australian court with jurisdiction over matters broadly relating to family law and child support, administrative law, admiralty law, bankruptcy, copyright, human rights, industrial law, migration, privacy and trade practices. There has been a shift recently towards having most cases held in this court, thereby freeing up workload so the Federal Court of Australia and the Family Court of Australia can hear more complicated cases. This court also hears appeals from various federal tribunals.\n\nEach state and territory has a court hierarchy of its own, with the jurisdictions of each court varying from state to state and territory to territory. However, all states and territories have a Supreme Court, which is a superior court of record and is the highest court within that state or territory. These courts also have appeal divisions, known as the Full Court or Court of Appeal of the Supreme Court (in civil matters), or the Court of Criminal Appeal (in criminal matters.)\n\nDecisions of the High Court are binding on all Australian courts, including state and territory Supreme Courts.\n\nThe state and territory courts can sometimes exercise federal jurisdiction (i.e. rule on matters subject to federal legislation.) However, an attempt by the states and the Commonwealth to pass legislation that would cross-vest state judicial powers in the Federal courts was struck down by the High Court in Re Wakim; Ex parte McNally, as being unconstitutional. Notwithstanding this failure, however, both state and federal courts can exercise an \"accrued jurisdiction,\" which enables them to hear all legal issues arising from a single set of facts. This enables all courts to deal with virtually all issues arising from the facts of a case, provided that the particular court has jurisdiction to hear the principal cause of action.\n\nMost of the states have two further levels of courts, which are comparable across the country. The district court (or county court in Victoria) handles most criminal trials for less serious indictable offences, and most civil matters below a threshold (usually around $1 million). The magistrates court (or local court) handles summary matters and smaller civil matters. In jurisdictions without district or county courts, most of those matters are dealt with by the supreme courts. In Tasmania and the two mainland territories, however, there is only a Magistrates Court below the Supreme Court.\n\nIn the three external territories (that is, territories not directly forming part of the Commonwealth of Australia but administered by the Commonwealth) there is a supreme court and a magistrates court or court of petty sessions. The supreme courts are staffed by judges of other courts, usually the Federal Court. Appeals from those courts lie to the full Federal Court. As these territories have very small populations, the courts only sit from time to time as needed. The three external territories are Norfolk Island, Christmas Island and Cocos (Keeling) Islands.\n\nThe remaining external territories (including Antarctica) do not have permanent courts. In the event of a case arising from these territories, the courts of the ACT have jurisdiction.\n\nAll the States and Territories, with the exception of Tasmania, have a Civil and Administrative Tribunal. These hear cases relating to lesser State or Territory administrative disputes (involving some individual, business or government body). These commonly involve actions by persons bound to act pursuant to some form of devolved legislation; such as Environmental Regulations or Rental Tenancy Regulations.\n\nA table of the Court hierarchy and Civil and Administrative Tribunals of the Australian States and Territories follows here:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819778", "title": "Maddalena Pass", "text": "Maddalena Pass\n\nThe Maddalena Pass (Italian: \"Colle della Maddalena\" French: \"Col de Larche\", historically \"Col de l'Argentière\") (elevation 1996 m.) is a high mountain pass between the Cottian Alps and the Maritime Alps, located on the border between Italy and France. It connects Barcelonnette in France with Cuneo in Italy. Its French name \"Col de Larche\" refers to the village Larche on its northwestern side.\n\nUnder its earlier name, Col de l'Argentière it has historically linked Lyon with Italy; the Col de l'Argentière was in the possession of the house of Savoy from 1388 to 1713, offering an easy route between Piedmont and its outlying valley of Barcelonnette, which came into Savoyard possession in 1388, when Amadeus VI of Savoy purchased it for the sum of 60,000 ecus, it was of such strategic and commercial importance.\nA few hundred metres from the pass, on its Italian side, is the Lago della Maddalena, which is the source of the Stura di Demonte, an important tributary of the Tanaro.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819783", "title": "Kababir", "text": "Kababir\n\nKababir (; ) is a mixed neighbourhood of with a majority of Ahmadi Muslim Arabs and a significant minority of Jews in Haifa, Israel.\nThe Ahmadiyya Muslim Community was founded in the 19th century, originating in India and settled in Kababir. Most of the families who were displaced to Kababir are originally from the village of Ni'lin near Jerusalem. One of the biggest and most well known family is the Odeh's family. They built the neighbourhood's first mosque on Mount Carmel in 1931, and a larger grand mosque in the 1980s. The Mosque is named after the second Ahmadi Khalifa Mirza Basheer-ud-Din Mahmood Ahmad. The grand mosque has two white minarets standing 34 metres tall, which dominate the low-rise skyline of the residential neighbourhoods on the ridges nearby. In the beginning, the neighbourhood was managed as a commune in which every working male contributed a fee to a mutual account. Some of the men joined the Turkish army, while some worked in the oil refinery in the city of Haifa. Others worked building the Port of Haifa.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819784", "title": "Donegal North-East (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Donegal North-East (Dáil constituency)\n\nDonegal North-East was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas, from 1961 to 1977 and from 1981 to 2016. The constituency elected 3 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was first created for the 1961 general election, taking in parts of the abolished Donegal East constituency. It lasted until 1977, when it was abolished and became part of a new Donegal constituency, and was then recreated for the 1981 general election. It was abolished at the 2016 general election, and again became part of the re-created Donegal constituency.\n\nThe constituency was located in the northern part of County Donegal. It encompassed the Letterkenny, Milford and Inishowen electoral areas of Donegal County Council.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) Act 2009 defined the constituency as:\n\nFollowing the death of Independent Fianna Fáil TD Neil Blaney, a by-election was held on 2 April 1996. It was won by the Fianna Fáil candidate Cecilia Keaveney.\n\nUnusually, all seats were filled on the first count. A further two counts were then held to give lower-placed candidates a chance to save their deposits.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD Liam Cunningham, a by-election was held on 10 June 1976. The seat was won by the Independent Fianna Fáil candidate Paddy Keaveney.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819795", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819795", "title": "Donegal South-West (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Donegal South-West (Dáil constituency)\n\nDonegal South-West was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas, from 1961 to 1969 and from 1981 to 2016. The constituency elected 3 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was first created for the 1961 general election. At the 1969 general election it was abolished and largely replaced by the Donegal–Leitrim constituency. It was recreated for the 1981 general election. It was located in the southern and western parts of County Donegal, it included the towns of Lifford, Donegal, Ballyshannon, Killybegs and Gweedore. It was abolished again at the 2016 general election, and became part of the re-created Donegal constituency.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) Act 2009 defined the constituency as:\n\nFollowing the resignation of Fianna Fáil TD Pat \"the Cope\" Gallagher on his election to the European Parliament in June 2009, a by-election was held on 25 November 2010. The seat was won by the Sinn Féin candidate Pearse Doherty.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD Clement Coughlan, a by-election was held on 13 May 1983. The seat was won by the Fianna Fáil candidate Cathal Coughlan, brother of the deceased TD.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819797", "title": "Helle, Telemark", "text": "Helle, Telemark\n\nHelle is a village in the Kragerø municipality of Telemark, Norway, located on the north shores of Hellefjorden about northeast of the city of Kragerø.\n\nFor the purpose of the Norwegian census the village is combined with its neighbor village to the west, Vadfoss, and listed as Vadfoss/Helle. As of January 2012, the Vadfoss/Helle area has a population of 1,556 over an area of , giving it a density of . Helle includes the neighborhoods of Nordbø, Sollia, Måneliheia and Skarbo. Lakes in the area include Upper and Lower Strandtjenn, Langtjenn, Bastautjenn, Årømyrtjenna and Svarttjenn.\n\nThe village is connected to the rest of Norway via road by Fylkesvei 363 and 210, and via bus by Nettbuss Sør Route 459 and Drangedal Bilruter Route 609. The nearest E-road is the E18, which passes through Sannidal to the west.\n\nHelle started out as an industrial community when the Helle Bruk sawmill was built in 1580. The sawmill was in continuous operation until 1930 when it was shut down. The village was also known for its ice harvesting industry, and at one point it had three different companies exporting ice from the area. There was also a chains factory in the Skarbo neighborhood with about 45 employees that was founded in 1909. It was in continuous operation up until 2005 when the company moved operations to an industrial park on the border of Kragerø and Drangedal just north of the E18.\n\nToday, Helle is largely a residential community, with the exception of a few businesses on Helleveien. In the Sollia neighborhood there is a small wooden church, Hellekirken, which was built in 1994. The church includes a kindergarten, a kitchen, multiple meeting rooms, and a chapel with 200 seats. There was formerly a small post office in the village center, but it closed around the turn of the millennium. In 2008, a large new elementary school, Helleskolen, was built in the Nordbø neighborhood to replace Årø School and Skarbo School. It houses about 200 students and includes sports facilities such as an artificial turf field.\n"}
{"id": "1819798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819798", "title": "146 (number)", "text": "146 (number)\n\n146 (one hundred [and] forty-six) is the natural number following 145 and preceding 147.\n\n146 is an octahedral number as well as a composite number.\n\nIt is a nontotient since there is no integer with 146 coprimes below it, noncototient since there is no integer with 146 natural numbers below it which are not coprime to it, and an untouchable number since there is no integer whose proper divisors add up to 146.\n\n146 is a repdigit in base 8 (222).\n\n\n146 is also:\n\n"}
{"id": "1819802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819802", "title": "Dublin Central (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Dublin Central (Dáil constituency)\n\nDublin Central is a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas. The constituency elects 4 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election is the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nA Dublin Central constituency was created for the first time in 1969 and used at the 1969 and 1973 general elections. It originally spanned both sides of the River Liffey and took in inner city Dublin. It was abolished in 1977 as part of the Tullymander with the constituency being divided between Dublin North-Central, Dublin Cabra and Dublin South-Central. In its current incarnation, the seat was created in 1980, taking in most of the abolished Dublin Cabra constituency together with the inner half of Dublin North-Central and smaller parts of the abolished Dublin Finglas.\n\nThe Dublin Central constituency is located in the north inner city and suburbs of Dublin and encompasses an area to the north side of the river Liffey including: Stoneybatter, Mountjoy Square, Phibsborough, Cabra, Dorset Street, Henrietta Street, O'Connell Street, Arbour Hill, Navan Road, Glasnevin, North Wall, East Wall and Drumcondra. It comprises the local government areas of Ballymun, North Inner City and Cabra-Finglas.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2013 defines the constituency as:\n\nAt the 2020 general election, it gained an extra seat to become a 4-seat constituency.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2017 defines the constituency as:\n\nDublin Central is regarded as one of the most social and ethnically diverse constituencies in Ireland. It contains Dublin's main shopping district and financial areas. The constituency consists of largely traditional working class areas such as East Wall, North Strand, Summerhill, Ballybough, Sheriff Street and Cabra with more suburban middle class Glasnevin and Lower Drumcondra on the northern fringes of the constituency.\n\nFor many years it was the constituency of former Taoiseach Bertie Ahern who won the first seat in the constituency at every election from its creation in 1981 until his retirement in 2011. It was a highly competitive constituency with the Labour Party, Sinn Féin and left-wing independents such as Tony Gregory drawing much support. Following the 2011 general election Fianna Fáil were not represented in the constituency.\n\nFollowing the death of independent TD Tony Gregory, a by-election was held on 5 June 2009. It was won by Independent candidate Maureen O'Sullivan.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD George Colley, a by-election was held on 23 November 1983. It was won by Fianna Fáil candidate Tom Leonard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819807", "title": "Mel Tillis", "text": "Mel Tillis\n\nLonnie Melvin Tillis (August 8, 1932 – November 19, 2017) was an American country music singer and songwriter. Although he recorded songs since the late 1950s, his biggest success occurred in the 1970s, with a long list of Top 10 hits.\n\nTillis' biggest hits include \"I Ain't Never\", \"Good Woman Blues\", and \"Coca-Cola Cowboy\". On February 13, 2012, President Barack Obama awarded Tillis the National Medal of Arts for his contributions to country music. He also won the Country Music Association Awards' most coveted award, Entertainer of the Year. Additionally, he was known for his stutter, which did not affect his singing voice. His daughter is 1990s country hitmaker Pam Tillis.\n\nMel Tillis was born on August 8, 1932, in Tampa, Florida, to Burma (née Rogers; 1907–1990) and Lonnie Lee Tillis (1907 – 1981). While he was still young, the family moved to Pahokee, Florida (near West Palm Beach). His stutter developed during his childhood, a result of a bout of malaria. As a child, Tillis learned the drums, as well as guitar, and at age 16, won a local talent show. He attended the University of Florida, but dropped out and joined the United States Air Force. While stationed as a baker on Okinawa, he formed a band called The Westerners, which played at local nightclubs.\n\nAfter leaving the Air Force in 1955, Tillis returned to Florida where he worked a number of odd jobs, eventually finding employment with the Atlantic Coast Line Railroad in Tampa, Florida. He used his railroad pass to visit Nashville and eventually met and auditioned for Wesley Rose of famed Nashville publishing house Acuff-Rose Music. Rose encouraged Tillis to return to Florida and continue honing his songwriting skills. Tillis eventually moved to Nashville, Tennessee, and began writing songs full-time. He wrote \"I'm Tired\", a No. 3 country hit for Webb Pierce in 1957. Other Tillis hits include \"Honky Tonk Song\" and \"Tupelo County Jail\". Ray Price and Brenda Lee also charted hits with Tillis' material around this time. In the late 1950s, after becoming a hit-making songwriter, he signed his own contract with Columbia Records. In 1958, he had his first Top 40 hit, \"The Violet and a Rose\", followed by the Top 25 hit \"Sawmill\".\n\nAlthough Tillis charted on his own \"Billboard\"s Hot Country Songs list, he had more success as a songwriter. He continued to be Webb Pierce's songwriter. He wrote the hits \"I Ain't Never\" (Tillis' own future hit) and \"Crazy, Wild Desire\". Bobby Bare, Tom Jones (\"Detroit City\"), Wanda Jackson, and Stonewall Jackson also covered his songs. Tillis continued to record on his own. Some well-known songs from his Columbia years include \"The Brooklyn Bridge\", \"Loco Weed\", and \"Walk on, Boy\". However, he did not achieve major success on the country charts on his own.\n\nIn the mid-1960s, Tillis switched to Kapp Records, and in 1965, he had his first Top 15 hit with \"Wine\". Other hits continued to follow, such as \"Stateside\" and \"Life Turned Her That Way\", which was later covered by Ricky Van Shelton in 1988, going to No. 1. He wrote for Charley Pride (\"The Snakes Crawl At Night\") and wrote \"Ruby, Don't Take Your Love to Town\", which was a hit for Kenny Rogers and The First Edition. He also wrote the hit \"Mental Revenge\" for outlaw country star Waylon Jennings. (It has also been covered by the Hacienda Brothers, Linda Ronstadt, Gram Parsons, Barbara Mandrell, and Jamey Johnson.) In 1968, Tillis achieved his first Top 10 hit with \"Who's Julie\". He also was a regular featured singer on \"The Porter Wagoner Show\".\n\nThings turned around in 1969 for Tillis. He finally achieved the success he always wanted with two Top 10 country hits, \"These Lonely Hands of Mine\" and \"She'll Be Hanging Around Somewhere\". In 1970, he reached the Top 5 with \"Heart Over Mind\", which peaked at No. 3 on the Hot Country Songs list. After this, Tillis' career as a country singer went into full swing. Hits soon came quite easily, such as \"Heaven Everyday\" (1970), \"Commercial Affection\" (1970), \"Arms of a Fool\" (1970), \"Take My Hand\" (a duet with Sherry Bryce in 1971), and \"Brand New Mister Me\" (1971). In 1972, Tillis achieved his first chart-topper with his version of his song \"I Ain't Never\". Even though the song was previously a hit by Webb Pierce, Tillis' version is the better-known version of the two. Most of the above-mentioned song hits were recorded on MGM Records, Tillis' record company in the early part of the decade.\n\nAfter the success of \"I Ain't Never\", Tillis had another hit, which came close to No. 1 (reaching No. 3), titled \"Neon Rose\", followed by \"Sawmill\", which reached No. 2. \"Midnight, Me and the Blues\" was another near chart-topper in 1974. Other hits Tillis had on MGM include \"Stomp Them Grapes\" (1974), \"Memory Maker\" (1974), \"Woman in the Back of My Mind\" (1975), and his version of \"Mental Revenge\" (1976). Tillis achieved his biggest success with MCA Records, with which he signed in 1976. It started with a pair of two No. 1 hits in 1976, \"Good Woman Blues\" and \"Heart Healer\". (In an interview, he mentioned having written five hits in one week.) Thanks to this success, in 1976 Tillis won the Country Music Association Awards' most coveted award, Entertainer of the Year, and was also inducted into the Nashville Songwriters Hall of Fame that year. In 1977 he appeared on the game show \"Match Game\". He achieved another No. 1 in 1978 with \"I Believe In You\" and then again in 1979 with \"Coca-Cola Cowboy\", which was put in the Clint Eastwood movie \"Every Which Way but Loose\", in which he also made a cameo appearance. Also in 1978, Mel co-hosted a short-lived variety series on ABC television, \"Mel and Susan Together\", with model Susan Anton. Other hits around this time included \"Send Me Down to Tucson\", \"Ain't No California\", and \"I Got the Hoss\". In mid-1979, Tillis switched to another record company, Elektra Records.\n\nAfter signing with Elektra, he continued to make hit songs such as \"Blind In Love\" and \"Lying Time Again\", both hits in 1979. Until 1981, Tillis remained on top of his game as one of country music's most successful vocalists of the era. \"Your Body Is an Outlaw\" went to No. 3 in 1980, followed by another Top 10 hit, \"Steppin' Out\". \"Southern Rains\" in 1981 was his last No. 1 hit. That same year, he released \"Mel and Nancy\", an album of duets with Nancy Sinatra, which spawned two hit singles, the Top 30 hit \"Texas Cowboy Night\" and the double A-side, \"Play Me or Trade Me/Where Would I Be\". He remained with Elektra until 1982 before switching back to MCA for a brief period in 1983. That summer, he scored a Top 10 hit with \"In The Middle Of The Night\" and had his last Top 10 hit with \"New Patches\" in 1984. By this time, however, Tillis had built up a financial empire, thanks to investing in music publishing companies such as Sawgrass and Cedarwood. He also appeared in movies, including \"Cottonpickin' Chickenpickers\" (1967), \"W.W. and the Dixie Dancekings\" (1975), \"Smokey and the Bandit II\" (1980), \"The Cannonball Run\" (1981), and comedy westerns \"The Villain\" (1979) and \"Uphill All the Way\" (1986), in which he starred with fellow country singer Roy Clark. In 1979, he acquired radio station KIXZ (AM) in Amarillo, Texas, from Sammons-Ruff Associates, which converted from Top 40 to country music and became a force in the Texas Panhandle region (the station is now known today as a News/Talk radio station). A short time later, Tillis acquired Amarillo, Texas, Rock FM station KYTX, which changed calls to KMML (a play on Tillis' stutter) (that station is now known today as KXSS-FM, a Top 40 radio station and is currently still a sister station to KIXZ). Still later, he operated WMML in Mobile, Alabama. All of his stations were sold after a time for a healthy return. He briefly signed with RCA Records, as well as Mercury Records, and later Curb Records in 1991. By this time, his chart success had faded.\n\nFollowing his heyday in the 1970s, Tillis remained a songwriter in the 1980s, writing hits for Ricky Skaggs and Randy Travis. He also wrote his autobiography called \"Stutterin' Boy\". (The title comes from Tillis' speech disorder.) Tillis appeared as the television commercial spokesman for the fast-food restaurant chain Whataburger during the 1980s. Tillis continued to record and have occasional hits through the decade, with his last top-10 hit coming in 1984 and his last top-40 country hit in 1988; like most country artists of the classic era, his recording career was dented by changes in the country music industry in the early 1990s. He also built a theater in Branson, Missouri, where he performed on a regular basis until 2002. In 1998, he teamed with Bobby Bare, Waylon Jennings, and Jerry Reed to form The Old Dogs. The group recorded a double album of songs penned entirely by Shel Silverstein. In July 1998, \"Old Dogs Volumes 1 and 2\" were released on the Atlantic Records label. A companion video, as well as a \"Greatest Hits\" album (composed of previously released material by each individual artist), were also available. In the 1990s, Tillis' daughter, Pam, became a hugely successful country music singer in her own right, with Top Ten hits like \"Maybe It Was Memphis\", \"Shake the Sugar Tree\" and the Number One \"Mi Vida Loca (My Crazy Life)\".\n\nThe Grand Ole Opry inducted Mel Tillis on June 9, 2007. He was inducted into the Opry by his daughter Pam. Along with being inducted into the Grand Ole Opry, it was announced on August 7 that year that Tillis, along with Ralph Emery and Vince Gill, were to be inducted into the Country Music Hall of Fame.\n\nTillis had been unwell since January 2016 with various illnesses. On November 19, 2017, Tillis died of respiratory failure in Ocala, Florida, at the age of 85. He is survived by his six children: singer-songwriter Pam Tillis; songwriter Mel \"Sonny\" Tillis, Jr.; Carrie April; Connie; Cindy; and Hannah Tillis. His body is buried at the Woodall Cemetery in Clarksville, TN.\n\nOn June 25, 2019, \"The New York Times Magazine\" listed Mel Tillis among hundreds of artists whose material was reportedly destroyed in the 2008 Universal fire.\n\nThe Statesiders were Mel’s longtime backing band. They were named after his 1966 hit single “Stateside.” Between 1969 and 1980 14 studio albums and 4 live albums were released credited to Mel Tillis and the Statesiders, and the Statesiders released one studio album on their own in 1975. Several notable musicians have served as Statesiders, such as Buddy Cannon, Paul Franklin, Hoot Hester, and Jimmy Belken of the Strangers. While many other members have played with them during their run from 1967-2017, below is a timeline of just the members during their recorded output.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819808", "title": "Mariana Levy", "text": "Mariana Levy\n\nMariana Levy (22 April 1966 – 29 April 2005) was a Mexican \"telenovela\" actress, singer and television show host. She was the daughter of actress Talina Fernández and banker Gerardo Jorge Levy.\n\nMariana Levy Fernández was born in Mexico City. By the time she turned sixteen in 1982, she participated in her first Televisa soap opera, \"Vivir Enamorada\" (\"Living in Love\"), where she played \"Verónica\". Levy took 1983 off, then returned to the small screen in 1984, in a major Televisa hit, \"Los Años Felices\" (\"The Happy Years\"). In \"Los Años Felices\", she played the role of \"Nancy\". Her next telenovela, \n\"Martín Garatuza\" (1986) was not successful. The opposite can be said of her next work, as \"Linda\", in 1987's \"Rosa Salvaje\" (\"Wild Rosa\"). \"Rosa Salvaje,\" about a girl named Rosa who falls in love with a millionaire but was not accepted by his family, became a hit all over Latin America, Europe and Asia. Levy became known in places including Spain, Puerto Rico, Russia, Venezuela and Argentina.\n\nShe participated in 1988's \"Lo Blanco y Lo Negro\" (\"What's White and What's Black\"), alongside Rafael Sánchez Navarro among others, as \"Alma de Castro\". She took off the rest of the 1980s, but, in 1990, she returned to television with the task of playing three characters in the same soap opera; playing \"Ángela\", \"Gimena\" and \"Estrella\" in \"Yo compro esa mujer\" (\"I'll buy that woman\").\n\nBy the time she participated in \"En Carne Propia\" (\"Inside your own skin\"), also in 1990, she had already met the famous actor and dance teacher, Ariel López Padilla. It had been long rumored among fans that López Padilla was homosexual, but he had been romantically involved with Levy. In 1994, Levy and Lopez Padilla worked together again in the telenovela \"Caminos Cruzados\", where both of them played the lead. It was during this production that they finally got together for good. On 28 June 1996, the pair married in front of millions of TV viewers, as they said their vows in the popular talk show \"Cristina\", conducted by the famous talk-show host Cristina Saralegui. The couple had one daughter, María but their marriage ended up in a bitter divorce. While Levy was given custody of her daughter, her story about López Padilla being gay soon became moot because he was accused by a female dance student of him raping her. He was found not guilty.\n\nBefore taking off three years for her marriage, she participated in another major Mexican soap opera hit, 1991's \"La Pícara Soñadora\" (\"The Flirtatious Dreamer\") as \"Lupita\". In 1994, she made her only film when she acted in \"Amorosos Fantasmas,\" which was named \"Phantoms in Love\" for its English-language VCR release. During the rest of her acting career, she acted in nine telenovelas, most of them which were not notable, except for 1997's \"Leonela\". \n\nShe married again, this time to José María Fernández, the half brother of Chantal Andere. In 2003, Mariana Levy joined her mother, Talina Fernández, as cohost of her televised variety show, \"Nuestra Casa\" (\"Our House\"), and also participated in her final telenovela, the hugely successful Amor Real. This production was set in the mid 19th century, and in one of her most memorable characters ever, Mariana played \"Josefina\", an ugly-duckling-turned-swan character. Levy retired to give birth to Paula and José Emilio.\n\nMexico City police, based on witness testimonies, have given many different theories about Levy's death. It is known that she suffered a heart attack while stopped at a red light in the Mexico City neighborhood of Lomas de Chapultepec. However, the question so far is exactly what caused her death: Some witnesses said that she had her heart attack while a gunman was pointing a revolver at her to steal her car; others simply said that she became scared, due to the recent incidents in which many Mexican entertainers or their families have been kidnapped for money, when she saw a large man approaching her car. According to the later version, she ordered her husband to close the car's windows, but began to have the heart attack when she felt chest pains and shortness of breath soon after.\n\nHer husband was actually driving across town to a theme park (Six Flags México), where she and her family were to meet with some friends for a family day. The paramedics tried to resuscitate Mariana Levy in vain on the heart attack's scene. She was taken by ambulance to a hospital, where she was declared dead at 13:30 local time (UTC −5) on 29 April 2005, one week after her 39th birthday. The police arrested several individuals who happened to be under investigation in connection with some car theft crimes and who happened to be on the scene of Levy's death.\n\nHer mother, Talina Fernández, was in a studio about to tape a show when she received the news of her daughter's death.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819809", "title": "Brian Horrocks", "text": "Brian Horrocks\n\nLieutenant General Sir Brian Gwynne Horrocks, (7 September 1895 – 4 January 1985) was a British Army officer, chiefly remembered as the commander of XXX Corps in Operation Market Garden and other operations during the Second World War. He also served in the First World War and the Russian Civil War, was taken prisoner twice, and competed in the modern pentathlon at the 1924 Paris Olympics. Later he was a television presenter, wrote books on military history, and was Black Rod in the House of Lords for 14 years.\n\nIn 1940 Horrocks commanded a battalion during the Battle of France, the first time he served under Bernard Montgomery, the most prominent British commander of the war. Montgomery later identified Horrocks as one of his most able officers, appointing him to corps commands in both North Africa and Europe. In 1943, Horrocks was seriously wounded and took more than a year to recover before returning to command a corps in Europe. It is likely that this period out of action meant he missed out on promotion; his contemporary corps commanders in North Africa, Oliver Leese and Miles Dempsey, went on to command at army level and above. Horrocks' wound continued to impair his health and led to his early retirement from the army after the war.\n\nSince 1945, Horrocks has been regarded by some as one of the most successful British generals of the war, \"a man who really led, a general who talked to everyone, down to the simplest private soldier\" and the \"\"beau ideal\" of a corps commander\". General Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Supreme Allied Commander in Western Europe, called him \"the outstanding British general under Montgomery\".\n\nBrian Gwynne Horrocks was the only son of Colonel Sir William Horrocks, a Lancashire born doctor in the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC), and his wife, Minna Horrocks, \"who had all the gaiety and charm of the Irish\". Born in Ranikhet in British India on 7 September 1895, young Brian—after having had \"particularly happy memories of the four years spent at Gibraltar when my father was working on the causes of Malta fever\"—returned to Britain, where he was educated at Bow School, Durham, later Uppingham School, Rutland, an English public school, \"where I gravitated automatically into the army class. There was never any question of my entering a profession other than the army.\" Of his childhood, he claimed to have had \"an extremely happy childhood\". Horrocks later wrote that, as his life was devoted almost entirely to sport, he had very little aptitude for hard work.\n\nHe entered the Royal Military College, Sandhurst, in October 1912, \"bottom but one\". Horrocks's time at Sandhurst was, by his own admission, not very distinguished. \"Let me be quite honest about it; I was idle, careless about my turnout—in army parlance, scruffy—and, due to the fact that I am inclined to roll when I walk, very unsmart on parade\". His score was sixth-lowest of the 167 successful applicants for cadetships—even after the addition of 200 bonus points for an Officer Training Corps (OTC) certificate, which not all the other candidates had. An unpromising student, he might not have received a commission at all but for the outbreak of the First World War in August 1914.\n\nHorrocks was commissioned as a second lieutenant into the Middlesex Regiment, a line infantry regiment of the British Army, on 8 August 1914. Horrocks, in charge of a ninety-five-man draft of replacements, joined the 1st Battalion of his regiment as part of the British Expeditionary Force (BEF) during the BEF's retreat following its baptism of fire at the Battle of Mons. By the time he and his men had got to Southampton his ninety-five-man draft had increased to ninety-eight, with three others, in their keenness to get into the war, having sneaked in. He described the feeling at the time: \"This was, I should think, the last time there was any romance attached to war. It is impossible now after the bitter experience of two world wars to recapture the spirit of this country in August, 1914. As I marched through those cheering crowds I felt like a king among men. It was all going to be over by Christmas and our one anxiety was whether we would get over there in time. And all ranks felt the same.\"\n\nArriving in France, Horrocks was assigned to No. 16 Platoon of the 1st Battalion, Middlesex, with Captain Edward Stephen Gibbons (who was killed in 1918) as his company commander. The battalion was part of the 19th Independent Brigade, which was not assigned to a division. Horrocks wrote that his \"chief memory of those days, and the memory retained by all platoon commanders, was of marching—endless and exhausting marches. I had never realised before that it was possible to go to sleep while the legs continued automatically to function.\" He found comfort in \"that priceless Cockney sense of humour. A small private soldier in the rank in front of me looked up at his neighbour, who was blessed with a long lugubrious face, and said, \"Why don't you give your face a holiday, chum? Try a smile\".\" He also came to greatly admire Captain Gibbons, along with his platoon sergeant, Sergeant Whinney. Once, while it was pouring with rain, when the officers of the battalion were offered billets in a comfortable farmhouse, while the other ranks slept in a manure-packed field recently departed by some cows, Captain Gibbons was furious, insisting that the officers should share in the misery of their subordinates. \"My heart sank but I knew instinctively that he was right\", Horrocks later wrote. Douglas Delaney writes that the \"willingness of soldiers to follow was constructed on gestures like this. It is interesting how some events, though seemingly insignificant in the bigger scheme of things, become embedded in memory, making lifelong memories of themselves.\" Horrocks was not to last much longer in battle, as on 21 October, at the Battle of Armentières, his platoon was surrounded, and Horrocks, while defending the town of Maisnil against a German attack, received a bullet wound through the lower abdomen and upper thigh, and was taken prisoner. \"The war for me was over and my active military career had stopped for four years.\"\n\nIncarcerated in a military hospital, he was repeatedly interrogated by his German captors, who believed that the British were using expanding bullets in contravention of the 1899 Hague Convention. Horrocks' captors refused to change his clothes or sheets, and denied him and a fellow officer basic amenities. Both had temporarily lost the use of their legs, and were forced to crawl to the toilet, which caused Horrocks' wounds to become infected. Conditions improved after his discharge and transfer to a prisoner of war camp. On his way to the camp, Horrocks befriended his German escort—he attributed their rapport to the mutual respect that front-line troops share. He was promoted to lieutenant on 18 December 1914, despite being in enemy hands, and often tried to escape, once coming within of the Dutch border before being recaptured. He was eventually placed in a compound for Russian officers, in the hope that the language barrier would hinder his escape attempts; Horrocks used the time to learn the Russian language. Years later, working in the House of Commons, he startled Nikita Khrushchev and Nikolai Bulganin by greeting them in their native tongue. In the latter part of the war he was held in Holzminden prisoner-of-war camp. His resistance in captivity would earn him the Military Cross (MC), awarded in 1920 and backdated to 5 May 1919.\n\nRepatriated at the end of the war, Horrocks had difficulty adapting to a peacetime routine. He went on sprees in London, spending four years of accumulated back-pay in six weeks.\n\nIn 1919 Horrocks was posted to Russia as part of the Allied intervention in the Russian Civil War. After landing at Vladivostok on 19 April, he was briefed at British headquarters. The White Army under Admiral Kolchak, with the help of released Czechoslovak Legion prisoners, had driven the Red Army out of Siberia. Kolchak's Czech troops were returning home, and the British military contingent was urgently trying to replace them with Russians. To accomplish this, the British had only two infantry battalions and two small administrative missions, one charged with training and arming the Russians with British war-surplus equipment, and the other with improving the White Army's communications.\n\nHorrocks' first task, along with a party of 13 British officers and 30 other ranks, was to guard a train delivering 27 carriages of shells to the White Army in Omsk, away on the Trans-Siberian Railway. The journey took more than a month, and as the only party member fluent in Russian, Horrocks had to deal with many of the difficulties encountered. At every station, he had to ward off station masters intent on acquiring the carriages. While stopped in Manchuli, the British officers' presence provoked a duel between two Cossack officers. Horrocks accepted an invitation to act as a second, but the pair were arrested before the duel could take place. He managed to defuse the situation before it came to trial, by claiming his faulty Russian had been the cause of the misunderstanding.\n\nHis next assignment was in Yekaterinburg in the Urals, where he was appointed second in command of a training school for non-commissioned officers attached to the Anglo-Russian Brigade. He found this post frustrating, having to dismiss nearly a third of his initial cadre on medical grounds, and struggling to get supplies and support from the White Army authorities. Despite this, he developed a rapport with his men and an admiration for the Russian soldier.\n\nAlthough British forces were ordered home shortly afterwards, Horrocks and another officer, George Hayes, remained to advise the First Siberian Army. The White Army was in retreat, and Horrocks joined them as they fell back to Vladivostok, away. He was captured by the Red Army on 7 January 1920, in the town of Krasnoyarsk, and spent 10 months as a prisoner, narrowly surviving severe typhus. The British government negotiated a prisoner release, and Horrocks left Russia on 29 October, returning home on the Royal Navy cruiser HMS \"Delhi\".\n\nHorrocks rejoined his regiment, based in Germany with the British Army of the Rhine, and followed it to Ireland, then embroiled in the Anglo-Irish War. His duties included searching for arms and dealing with ambushes and roadblocks, which he called \"a most unpleasant form of warfare\". This was followed by a short period in Silesia to deal with tensions between the Polish and German populations.\n\nOn his return to Britain, Horrocks took up the modern pentathlon. He competed successfully in army tournaments, and was picked for the British Olympic team for the 1924 Paris Olympics, where he finished 19th out of 38. Horrocks spent the remainder of the inter-war years in postings that included adjutant for the 9th Battalion, Middlesex Regiment of the Territorial Army (1926–1930); student at the Staff College, Camberley (1931–32); Staff Captain at the War Office (1934–36); brigade major with the 5th Infantry Brigade (1936–38); and instructor at the Staff College. The Territorial Army posting, which Horrocks considered to be among his happiest periods, provided experience in dealing with citizen soldiers, which would prove highly valuable during the Second World War. He received a brevet majority in 1935, and was promoted to substantive major in 1936, and brevet lieutenant colonel in 1937.\n\nIn 1928, Horrocks married Nancy Kitchin, daughter of an architect for the Local Government Board. They had one child, a daughter named Gillian, who drowned in 1979 while swimming in the River Thames.\n\nAt the outbreak of the Second World War, Horrocks was working as an instructor at the Staff College, Camberley, where he had taught since 1938. After helping organise a new, shorter, officer-training course, in December 1939 he was promoted to substantive lieutenant colonel. The following May, he was despatched to France to command the 2nd Battalion, Middlesex Regiment, a machine-gun battalion directly subordinate to the 3rd Division headquarters of Major-General Bernard Montgomery. British doctrine at the time retained heavy machine guns under the direct command of a corps or division, rather than as an organic part of subordinate formations. He joined the battalion during its retreat to Dunkirk, and after only 17 days had impressed his superiors sufficiently to be given the temporary rank of brigadier, and the command of 11th Brigade. The brigade's previous commander, Kenneth Anderson, had been promoted to General Officer Commanding (GOC) 3rd Division during the evacuation, when Lieutenant-General Alan Brooke, commander of II Corps, was recalled to the United Kingdom and Montgomery took over the corps. On Horrocks' return to Britain, he was given command of 9th Brigade and assigned to defend against a possible German invasion. A short stint as Brigadier General Staff of Western Command followed, before promotion to acting major-general and command of 44th (Home Counties) Infantry Division on 25 June 1941. He was promoted to substantive colonel on 28 May 1941 (with seniority backdated to 1 July 1940).\n\nIn March 1942, Horrocks was given command of the newly formed 9th Armoured Division and gained the temporary rank of major-general on 27 June. Horrocks, an infantry soldier with no experience in dealing with cavalry, was an unusual choice for commander of an armoured division. He trained the division hard, organising exercises to improve the effectiveness of his troops, and to familiarise himself with armoured warfare. Despite never having commanded a division in battle, he was further promoted to acting lieutenant-general and sent to Egypt to command the Eighth Army's XIII Corps, under Montgomery. General Sir Harold Alexander and Lieutenant-General Montgomery had decided to make a \"clean sweep\" when replacing the dismissed Claude Auchinleck as Commander-in-Chief (C-in-C) Middle East and Eighth Army commander respectively. Officers perceived to have failed under the old regime were removed, and Montgomery's favoured commanders were brought in. Among these was Horrocks, an officer who, Montgomery felt, was \"exactly what was wanted for the job that lay ahead\".\n\nOn arriving in North Africa, Horrocks' corps was ordered to defend the Alam el Halfa ridge in northwestern Egypt from an expected attack by the Afrika Korps. Concerned that heavy casualties would jeopardise his planned El Alamein offensive, Montgomery instructed Horrocks to repel Erwin Rommel's forces \"without getting unduly mauled in the process\". Horrocks prepared for a purely defensive battle, with his armour dug in around the ridge. When the Germans attacked on 30 August, they failed to lure the British tanks towards their 88 mm guns—a tactic that had previously been used with great success—and found themselves battered by both artillery and the Desert Air Force (DAF). The battle ended with the Germans in control of Himeihat hill, but at a high cost, and the Allied forces unwilling to try to re-take it after a failed attack by the 2nd New Zealand Division. The army's defensive success raised morale, and Horrocks was praised by his subordinate, Brigadier George Roberts, for his \"wonderful knack of inspiring confidence and enthusiasm wherever he goes\". Montgomery, too, was pleased, saying \"he deserves great credit for his action on that day\".\n\nHorrocks was offered the command of X Corps, an armoured corps, in the planned Alamein battle. He refused it, believing that Major-General Herbert Lumsden, a cavalry officer, would be more suited to the role. Instead he retained command of XIII Corps, and was given the task of making a feint to the south to deceive Axis forces, while the main thrust was made by XXX Corps and X Corps to the north. Montgomery told Horrocks that he was not to incur tank losses, so XIII Corps' offensive operations were limited to raids. In the aftermath of the landmark British victory that followed, Horrocks' corps was assigned to the reserve and was reduced in size while the rest of the Eighth Army pursued the retreating Axis forces. At one point the only formation under his command was a salvage unit clearing the wreckage of the battlefield, which he visited daily. In December, he relinquished command of XIII Corps to Lieutenant General Miles Dempsey and took over command of X Corps, the lead corps in the advance of the Eighth Army, after Lumsden's dismissal for his perceived poor performance during the pursuit. Horrocks was appointed a Companion of the Distinguished Service Order on 31 December 1942.\n\nFollowing the fall of Tripoli in January 1943, the remaining Axis forces retreated to defensive positions in Southern Tunisia, in front of the Mareth Line built by France before the war. Here in March, Horrocks carried out one of his most successful actions. His corps, composed of the 1st Armoured Division, a Free French brigade and the attached New Zealand Corps (which included the 2nd New Zealand Division and the British 8th Armoured Brigade), was ordered to attack as part of Operation Supercharge II after XXX Corps failed to breach the line. He carried out a flanking manoeuvre through a pass judged by the Germans to be impenetrable, rendering the Mareth position untenable and forcing the Axis into another retreat. Three Italian divisions were destroyed, and the German 15th and 21st Panzer Divisions and the 164th Division were heavily depleted. Horrocks was then transferred to the First Army to take over IX Corps after its previous commander, Lieutenant-General John Crocker, was wounded in a training accident. He led this corps in the final Allied offensive in Tunisia during April and May 1943, capturing Tunis and accepting the surrender of the remnants of Rommel's Army Group Africa. He was mentioned in despatches on 24 June, and for his service in Tunisia, was appointed a Companion of the Order of the Bath on 5 August. He was also given the rank of temporary lieutenant-general and war substantive major-general.\n\nIn June 1943, after returning to command of X Corps, Horrocks sustained serious injuries during an air raid at Bizerte, while watching an amphibious rehearsal by the 46th Infantry Division for Operation Avalanche, the Salerno landings. Bullets from a strafing German fighter struck his upper chest and carried on through his body, piercing his lungs, stomach and intestines. He underwent five operations and spent fourteen months recovering. He was replaced as commander of X Corps by Lieutenant-General Sir Richard McCreery.\n\nIt was a year before Horrocks recovered sufficiently to tell Field Marshal Sir Alan Brooke, the Chief of the Imperial General Staff (CIGS), that he was \"very anxious to be given another corps\". Restored to the acting rank of lieutenant-general in August 1944, he was sent to France to assume command of XXX Corps during the cataclysm engulfing the trapped German 7th Army and 5th Panzer Army in the Falaise Pocket. Montgomery had been dissatisfied with the performance of the corps and its GOC, Gerard Bucknall, a fellow Middlesex Regiment officer, since the landings in Normandy two months earlier. Horrocks retained control of XXX Corps during the advance through Belgium, taking Brussels, and at one point advanced in only six days. Supplies were a constant concern; the major French deep-water ports were still in German hands, and Allied supply lines stretched back to the Normandy beaches. Montgomery's 21st Army Group was by now operating from its ports—twice the distance logistical planners had accounted for—so XXX Corps was diverted towards Antwerp to secure its docks and harbour. The city and port fell to the 11th Armoured Division in early September, but Montgomery halted XXX Corps for resupply short of the wide Albert Canal to the north of the city, which consequently remained in enemy hands. Horrocks regretted this after the war believing that his corps might have advanced another with the fuel available. Although some doubt this could have been achieved without delays it is now known (unlike to the Allies at that time) that XXX Corps was opposed by only one German division. The pause allowed the Germans to regroup around the Scheldt River, and by the time the Allies resumed their advance, the First Paratroop Army (General Kurt Student) had arrived and set up strong defensive positions along the opposite side of the canal. The task of breaking the strengthened German line, which stretched from Antwerp to the North Sea along the Scheldt River, would fall to the First Canadian Army in the month-long, costly Battle of the Scheldt. By mid-September, XXX Corps had been diverted again, this time to the east.\n\nIn September, Montgomery, now a field marshal, made his ambitious thrust across the Rhine and into the German industrial heartland, codenamed Operation Market Garden, a priority for 21st Army Group. XXX Corps under Horrocks was to lead the ground assault, passing along a corridor held by airborne forces to link up with the British 1st Airborne Division in Arnhem within four days. In any event XXX Corps never arrived and although 1st Airborne clung on to their tenuous position for a further five days, by 21 September almost three-quarters of the division was destroyed or captured. Postwar analyses have been divided, some stressing a perceived lack of urgency on the part of Horrocks' men, while others note that German defences in the area were severely underestimated by First Allied Airborne Army intelligence. Particularly important was the failure to identify the remnants of two SS Panzer divisions, which after Normandy had been sent to the Arnhem area for rest and refitting; intelligence had stated that only \"a few infantry units and between 50 and 100 tanks\" were in the Netherlands. Counter-attacks by Army Group B under \"Generalfeldmarschall\" (Field Marshal) Walter Model kept Horrocks' units on the defensive, and delayed their advance by forcing the British to halt and secure their flank. The terrain over which Horrocks' men had to move was unsuitable, restricting the vanguard (the Guards Armoured Division) to a single narrow raised highway through flat or flooded countryside. The Nijmegen Bridge, just from Arnhem, was not captured by the 508th Parachute Infantry Regiment on the first day as planned, and XXX Corps had to assist in its capture on their arrival in Nijmegen two days later, causing a further delay of 36 hours. Horrocks was not personally blamed for the operation's failure; during this period Brigadier General James Gavin's U.S. 82nd Airborne Division came under Horrocks' command, and Gavin later wrote\n\nDuring the Battle of the Bulge, Horrocks was temporarily relieved of his command of XXX Corps by Field Marshal Montgomery and sent back to Britain to rest. Montgomery had taken this move because Horrocks had become \"nervy and difficult with his staff\" and had \"attempted to act foolishly\" with XXX Corps. The corps was temporarily commanded by Major-General Ivor \"von Thoma\" Thomas, GOC of the 43rd (Wessex) Infantry Division.\n\nIn early 1945, XXX Corps took part in Operation \"Veritable\", during which the German Army was forced back over the Rhine. The corps employed firepower on a massive scale, and \"every trick that had been learnt during the past two and a half years was brought into play, and several new ones added\". For a short period XXX Corps had nine divisions under its command. Before the operation, Horrocks accepted an offer to use Bomber Command to attack the town of Cleves, assisting the advance of the 15th (Scottish) Infantry Division. The bombers released of high explosive that devastated the town. Horrocks later said that this had been \"the most terrible decision I had ever taken in my life\" and that he felt \"physically sick\" when he saw the bombers overhead. Operation \"Veritable\" was successful; by the evening of 9 February (D+1) XXX Corps had broken through the Siegfried Line and into Germany with only light casualties. Bremen was captured on 26 April, exposing the Sandbostel concentration camp, Stalag X-B. The corps had reached Cuxhaven by the time hostilities ceased.\n\nHorrocks received two further mentions in despatches for his service in north-west Europe on 22 March and 9 August 1945, and was appointed Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire on 5 July. He was honoured by the governments of Belgium (the Croix de Guerre 1940 with Palm and Grand Officer of the Order of the Crown with Palm), France (Croix de Guerre and Commandeur of the Légion d'honneur), the Netherlands (Knight Grand Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau), Greece (Commander of the Order of King George I), and the United States (Legion of Merit).\n\nHorrocks continued to serve in the armed forces after the war, initially as General Officer Commanding-in-Chief of Western Command, receiving substantive promotion to lieutenant-general in 1946, with seniority backdated to 29 December 1944. He briefly commanded the British Army of the Rhine, until he fell ill in August 1948; he was invalided out of the service early in January 1949 by the lingering effects of the wounds he had received in North Africa. Promoted to Knight Commander of the Order of the Bath in the King's Birthday Honours that year, he served as Honorary Colonel of a Territorial Army unit of the Royal Artillery.\n\nIn 1949 he was appointed Gentleman Usher of the Black Rod, a post traditionally held by retired officers; this appointment was confirmed on the accession of Elizabeth II in 1952. Black Rod has the responsibility of supervising the administration of the House of Lords, controlling admission to it, and taking part in ceremonies. In 1957, Horrocks had the unusual duty of ordering Vivien Leigh out of the House when she interrupted proceedings to plead that the St James's Theatre be saved from demolition. On other occasions, because the Black Rod had to remain in place during long debates, Horrocks relieved his boredom by completing football pools coupons. This had the advantage of looking like note-taking to the assembled lords. Horrocks held the post of Black Rod until 1963.\n\nHorrocks became interested in writing, and submitted articles about military matters to newspapers and magazines including the \"Picture Post\" and \"The Sunday Times\". This led to a short but successful career as the presenter of a series of television programmes, \"British Castles\" (1962), \"Men in Battle\" and \"Epic Battle\", produced by Huw Wheldon. In these, Horrocks lectured on great historical battles, \"highlighting excitement and interest\" to allow the programmes to appeal to the widest possible audience. He was interviewed extensively for the Thames Television series, \"The World at War\", and, to his embarrassment, appeared on the cover of the BBC's \"Radio Times\" magazine. \n\nAfter his television career ended, Horrocks served on the board of the housebuilding company Bovis, and continuing to write, contributing a column to \"The Sunday Times\" and editing a series of British Army regimental histories.\n\nIn 1968 Horrocks collaborated with J & L Randall as editor of the board game \"Combat\", made by the Merit company. Horrocks' portrait and signature appear on the box and his introduction to the game states: \"In war no two battles are ever the same because the terrain is always different and it is this, more than anything else, which influences the composition of the different armies and the tactics employed by the rival Commanders\".\n\nHis autobiography, \"A Full Life\", was published in 1960, and he co-authored \"Corps Commander\", an account of his battles in north-west Europe, published in 1977.\n\nHorrocks acted as a military consultant for the 1977 film \"A Bridge Too Far\", based on Operation Market Garden. Horrocks was also a character in the film, played by Edward Fox. Fox later commented: \n\nHorrocks died on 4 January 1985, aged 89. The memorial service, held at Westminster Abbey on 26 February, was attended by Major-General Peter Gillett and Secretary of State for Defence Michael Heseltine, who represented the Queen and Prime Minister respectively. Thirty regiments and many other formations and associations were represented at the service.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819810", "title": "Dublin Mid-West (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Dublin Mid-West (Dáil constituency)\n\nDublin Mid-West is a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas. The constituency elects 4 deputies (Teachtaí Dála, commonly known as TDs). The method of election is the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nThe constituency was created for the 2002 general election, composed of parts of the Dublin South-West and Dublin West constituencies. It contains the areas of Clondalkin, Lucan, Rathcoole and Saggart. The constituency review of 2004 recommended that the town of Palmerstown was incorporated into Dublin Mid-West (having been in Dublin West), and this was implemented in the Electoral (Amendment) Act 2005. The constituency elected 3 TDs in 2002, and gained a fourth seat at the 2007 general election.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) (Dáil Constituencies) Act 2013 defines the constituency as:\n\nA by-election was held in the constituency on 29 November 2019, to fill the seat vacated by Frances Fitzgerald on her election to the European Parliament in May 2019.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819813", "title": "Albert Winsemius", "text": "Albert Winsemius\n\nAlbert Winsemius (1910–1996) was a Dutch economist best known for serving as an economic adviser to Singapore from 1961 to 1984. He led the United Nations Survey Mission to Singapore and played a major role in the formulation of Singapore's national economic development strategy.\n\nIn 1960, Winsemius led the United Nations Expanded Programme for Technical Assistance (EPTA) team to examine Singapore's potential in industrialisation. At that time, Singapore had just attained self-government and was facing high unemployment and growing population. Winsemius presented a 10-year development plan to transform Singapore from an entrepot trading port into a centre of manufacturing and industrialisation.\n\nWinsemius' first emphasis was on creating jobs and attracting foreign investment. Labour-intensive industries, such as the production of shirts and pyjamas, were expanded. He also encouraged the large-scale public housing programme, believing that it would bolster the country's image, thus attractive to foreign investors. One of his earliest pieces of advice was not to remove the statue of Stamford Raffles as it was a symbol of public acceptance of Singapore's British heritage and could alleviate concerns that investors have towards a new socialist government. With Winsemius' help, Singapore attracted big oil companies such as Shell and Esso to establish refineries there.\n\nDuring his term as Chief Economic Adviser from 1961 to 1984, Winsemius worked closely with Lee Kuan Yew, the first Prime Minister of Singapore, and key members of Lee's government such as Goh Keng Swee and Hon Sui Sen. Later, he also had a close partnership with Goh Chok Tong, Lee's successor as Prime Minister. He visited Singapore two or three times a year to review economic performance indicators and to discuss macro-economic strategy with government planners.\n\nIn the 1970s, Singapore was upgrading its industrial capacity to use higher technological methods, including electronics. Winsemius personally went to persuade large Dutch electronics companies such as Philips to set up production plants in Singapore. He also proposed that Singapore could be developed as a financial centre, as well as an international centre for air traffic and sea transport. Over the next twenty years, these predictions proved to be accurate.\n\nIn 1983, Winsemius retired from his position as Singapore's economic adviser at the age of 74. He said, \"I leave with a saddened heart. It (Singapore) has become part of my life, more or less. It can do without me. It could do without me years ago. But it became part of my life. So I will shed a few tears, imaginary tears.\"\n\nWinsemius died of pneumonia in the Netherlands on 4 December 1996. In a letter of condolences to his family, Lee Kuan Yew wrote: \"It was Singapore's good fortune that he [Winsemius] took a deep and personal interest in Singapore's development. Singapore and I personally are indebted to him for the time, energy and development he gave to Singapore. I am proud to have known him and to have been his friend.\"\n\nWhen asked about his life as an economist, Winsemius once said, \"There is quite a lot of satisfaction, perhaps not like that of, say, an architect who can look at something and say, 'I made it'. But there is that satisfaction in knowing that you have contributed to the well being of people you don't know...\"\n\nWinsemius married Aly Schreiber. They had a son, two daughters and eight grandchildren.\n\nWinsemius' son, Pieter Winsemius, served as Minister of Housing, Spatial Planning and the Environment in the Dutch government from 1982 to 1986.\n\nIn 1997, Nanyang Technological University established the Albert Winsemius Professorship as a lasting tribute to Winsemius for his significant contributions to Singapore's economic development.\n\nFor his contributions to Singapore's economic development, Winsemius was conferred several honours. In 1967, Yusof Ishak, the first President of Singapore, awarded him the Distinguished Service Medal. In 1970, he was conferred an honorary degree by the National University of Singapore. In 1976, he received the National Trades Union Congress' May Day Gold Medal of Honour.\n\nThere is a lane in Clementi named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819816", "title": "Envenomation", "text": "Envenomation\n\nEnvenomation is the process by which venom is injected by the bite or sting of a venomous animal.\n\nMany kinds of animals, including mammals (e.g., the northern short-tailed shrew, \"Blarina brevicauda\"), reptiles (e.g., the king cobra), spiders (e.g., black widows), insects (e.g., wasps), and fish (e.g., stone fish) employ venom for hunting and for self-defense.\n\nSome venoms are applied externally, especially to sensitive tissues such as the eyes, but most venoms are administered by piercing the skin of the victim. Venom in the saliva of the Gila monster and some other reptiles enters prey through bites of grooved teeth. More commonly animals have specialized organs such as hollow teeth (fangs) and tubular stingers that penetrate the prey's skin, whereupon muscles attached to the attacker's venom reservoir squirt venom deep within the victim's body tissue. Death may occur as a result of bites or stings. The rate of envenoming is described as the likelihood of venom successfully entering a system upon bite or sting.\n\nDiagnosing snake envenomation is a crucial step in determining which antivenom is to be applied. Each year there are around 2 million cases of snake envenomation and up to 100,000 deaths worldwide. Various anti-venom treatments exist, typically consisting of antibodies or antibody fragments, which neutralize the venom. Certain snakes require certain treatments, such as pit vipers and coral snakes. Anti-venom therapy is designed to treat the hemorrhaging and coagulation effects that venom has on humans.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819817", "title": "Dublin North (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Dublin North (Dáil constituency)\n\nDublin North was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas, from 1923 to 1937 and from 1981 to 2016. The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nIt was first created for the 1923 general election with 8 seats, but was abolished for the 1937 general election. The constituency was re-created by the Electoral (Amendment) Act 1980 for the 1981 general election with 3 seats, largely replacing the former Dublin County North constituency. From 1992, it had 4 seats. It was superseded by Dublin Fingal at the 2016 general election.\n\nFrom 1981 to 2016, it was located in the northern area of County Dublin, and was made up of the Balbriggan and Malahide electoral areas of Fingal County Council and the north and west Swords electoral areas (Brackenstown and Seatown). Settlements in this constituency also include Lusk, Rush, Donabate and Skerries.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) Act 2009 defined the constituency as:\n\nFollowing the resignation of Fianna Fáil TD Ray Burke, a by-election was held on 11 March 1998. The seat was won by the Labour Party candidate Seán Ryan.\n\nFollowing the election of Independent TD Alfie Byrne to Seanad Éireann, a by-election was held on 14 March 1929. The seat was won by the Cumann na nGaedheal candidate Thomas F. O'Higgins.\n\nFollowing the disqualification of Irish Worker League TD James Larkin due to bankruptcy, a by-election was held on 3 April 1928. The seat was won by the Cumann na nGaedheal candidate Vincent Rice.\n\nFollowing the resignations of Cumann na nGaedheal TDs Francis Cahill and Seán McGarry, a by-election for both seats was held on 11 March 1925. The first seat was won by the Cumann na nGaedheal candidate Patrick Leonard, and the second by the Republican candidate Oscar Traynor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819819", "title": "Gajim", "text": "Gajim\n\nGajim is an instant messaging client for the XMPP protocol which uses the GTK+ toolkit. The name Gajim is a recursive acronym for \"Gajim's a jabber instant messenger\". Gajim runs on Linux, BSD and Microsoft Windows. Released under the GNU General Public License, Gajim is free software. A 2009 round-up of similar software on Tom's Hardware found version 0.12.1 \"the lightest and fastest jabber IM client\".\n\nThe goal of the Gajim project is to provide a full-featured and easy to use XMPP client for GTK+ users. Gajim uses PyGTK as GUI library, so it does not require full GNOME to run, though it works nicely under a GNOME environment. Some of its features:\nGajim is available in Basque, Bulgarian, Chinese, Croatian, Czech, English, Esperanto, French, German, Italian, Norwegian (Bokmål), Polish, Russian, Spanish, Slovak, Swedish, Ukrainian and others.\n\nGajim supports third-party plugins. Examples include:\n\nUp until late 2011, it was possible to forge a link such that when a receiving Gajim user clicks on it, arbitrary code would be executed on the Gajim user's machine.\n\n\nReviews\n\n"}
{"id": "1819820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819820", "title": "Chaonia", "text": "Chaonia\n\nChaonia or Chaon (Greek Χαονία or Χάων) was the name of the northwestern part of Epirus, the homeland of the Epirote tribe of the Chaonians. Its main town was called Phoenice. According to Virgil, Chaon was the eponymous ancestor of the Chaonians.\n\nStrabo in his \"Geography\", places Chaonia between the Ceraunian mountains in the north and the River Thyamis in the south. The Roman historian, Appian, mentions Chaonia as the southern border in his description and geography of Illyria.\n\nImportant cities in Chaonia included Chimaera (modern Himarë), Buthrotum, Phoenice, Panormos, Onchesmus (today Saranda) and Antigonia.\n\nIn Vigil's \"Aeneid\", Aeneas visits Chaonia and meets Andromache and Helenus. He is told he must continue on to Italy, and instructed to meet the Sibyl concerning a more specific prophecy as to Aeneas's destiny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819823", "title": "Sustain pedal", "text": "Sustain pedal\n\nA sustain pedal or sustaining pedal (also called damper pedal, loud pedal, or open pedal) is the most commonly used pedal in a modern piano. It is typically the rightmost of two or three pedals. When pressed, the sustain pedal \"sustains\" all the damped strings on the piano by moving all the dampers away from the strings and allowing them to vibrate freely. All notes played will continue to sound until the vibration naturally ceases, or until the pedal is released.\n\nThis lets the pianist sustain notes which would otherwise be out of reach, for instance in accompanying chords, and accomplish \"legato\" passages (smoothly connected notes) which would have no possible fingering otherwise. Depressing the sustain pedal also causes all the strings to vibrate sympathetically with whichever notes are being played, which greatly enriches the piano's tone.\n\nA device similar to the sustain pedal in effect was invented by the piano pioneer Gottfried Silbermann; it was operated by the player's hands rather than a pedal. A later eminent early builder, Johann Andreas Stein, may have been the first to allow the player to lift the dampers while still playing; his device was controlled by a knee lever.\n\nUntil the onset of the Romantic era in music, the sustain pedal was considered a special effect, used only in particular circumstances. Only with the Romantics did a fairly constant use of the pedal come to be regarded as an essential element of piano sound.\n\nAppropriate use of the pedal is often left to the musician's discretion, but composers and music editors also use pedal marks to notate it. A common symbol for this is a horizontal line below the grand staff, which lifts up and down with the pedal. An alternative (and older) notation is the use of indicating where the sustain pedal should be depressed, and an asterisk showing where it should be lifted (see Für Elise for a famous example). Occasionally there is a general direction at the start of a movement instructing that the sustain pedal be applied continuously throughout. This may be marked with \"senza sordini\" (\"without dampers\"), or similar wording.\n\nIn General MIDI, the sustain pedal information is controlled by Control Change number 64 (CC 64).\n\nThe sostenuto pedal is a similar device that sustains only notes which are depressed at the time the pedal is depressed. It is the usual middle of three pedals; but in some upright pianos the middle pedal instead lowers a veil of felt between the hammers and the strings to function as a mute.\n\nFor mechanical pianos it is possible to press down the sustain pedal only partially such that the dampers just touch the strings very slightly. This technique for the advanced pianist is called \"half pedaling\" and allows a fine variation of the sound. It can be observed that with half pedaling the damping is more effective for the higher tones. An example for a musical piece that is played with half pedaling by some pianists is Beethoven's Moonlight Sonata. Most recent digital pianos also support this effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819825", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819825", "title": "Dublin North-Central (Dáil constituency)", "text": "Dublin North-Central (Dáil constituency)\n\nDublin North-Central was a parliamentary constituency represented in Dáil Éireann, the lower house of the Irish parliament or Oireachtas, from 1948 to 2016. The method of election was the single transferable vote form of proportional representation (PR-STV).\n\nIt varied between 3 and 4 seats from its creation in 1948. It was located on the north side of Dublin city.\n\nThe Electoral (Amendment) Act 2009 defined the constituency as:\n\nIt was subsumed into the new Dublin Bay North constituency at the 2016 general election.\n\nThe constituency's most high-profile TD was Charles Haughey, who won the first seat in the constituency at every election from 1981 until his retirement in 1992, when his son Seán Haughey won a seat but did not top the poll.\n\nFollowing the death of Fianna Fáil TD Colm Gallagher, a by-election was held on 14 November 1957. The seat was won by Independent candidate Frank Sherwin.\n"}
{"id": "1819830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819830", "title": "Trekka", "text": "Trekka\n\nThe Škoda powered Trekka was a light utility vehicle manufactured in New Zealand between 1966 and 1973. It is the only vehicle designed and manufactured in New Zealand to have entered commercial production for an extended period. It should not be confused with the Renault Kangoo Trekka 4x4, the Kangoo having been marketed by Renault from 1997.\n\nThe idea for an agricultural utility vehicle based on the Škoda Octavia engine, drive train and separate chassis came from Philip Andrews, who had taken over the Motor Lines vehicle assembly company from his father. When Motor Lines was taken over by Noel Turner, Andrews was able to convince him of the market potential of such a vehicle. At that time in New Zealand agricultural vehicles attracted no tariffs and there was no government limit on the number of such vehicles that could be sold.\n\nTurner discovered that a prototype of a small utility vehicle had been made by an engineering company in Kawerau using an engine based on a British Bradford. Peter Risbridge, who ran the Kawerau engineering company, allowed the prototype to be taken to Motor Lines in Auckland, expecting it to be developed in joint venture with his company. Instead, according to reference, Motor Lines developed and produced the Skoda-powered Trekka from it with no payment whatever being made to Risbridge.\n\nOverseen by Colin French, manager of Motor Lines from 1966, the Trekka project began with two hand-built prototypes using the rear-wheel drive Škoda Octavia powertrain, which was imported from communist Czechoslovakia and featured a 1,221 cc, four-cylinder engine. \n\nThe Trekka superficially resembled a Land Rover but with far more limited off-road capability and was produced in both van and ute formats.\n\nThe Trekka was launched on 2 December 1966 as an agricultural vehicle although it eventually became popular with both rural buyers and urban tradesmen. The first Trekkas were sold in New Zealand in 1967, by which time Motor Lines had become Motor Holdings. The first model sold was the \"2-10\", which cost less than a Morris 1100 at just £899. The 2-10s were all painted green with canvas tops and were offered with a tow bar as the only option.\n\nInitially, the Trekka was produced at a rate of six vehicles a day with hand-formed steel panels. Production output increased after the panel forming was contracted out to H J Ryans, an Auckland manufacturer of lawn mowers. 708 Trekkas were sold in its first year of production and by January 1968 the 1,000th had been manufactured. When production ceased in 1973, some 2,500 had been built. \n\nBuyer demand for a more weather-proof top was answered by a white fibreglass canopy, whose manufacture was outsourced to another Auckland company. These later models were also fitted with improved seats. \nThe inability of the standard Škoda differential to cope with the frequently slippery conditions on farms and construction sites quickly became obvious. A limited slip differential was therefore developed for the Trekka by a Ray Stone, who had previously developed such units for racing cars.\n\nMotor Holdings began to look for export markets in 1968, with the first Trekkas exported going to Fiji. In subsequent months, other Pacific island states imported some Trekkas. \n\nExports to Australia became a matter of urgency when it became known that Motokov in Czechoslovakia (holding group of Škoda) planned to build a Škoda-based vehicle in Australia. The Australia and New Zealand governments agreed that up to 720 Trekkas a year could be sold in Australia free of duty, provided New Zealand issued an equal number of extra licences for Holden vehicles to be sold in New Zealand. Australian buyers did not take to the Trekka, cheapness being less of a prerequisite in that country and more robust and powerful alternatives being readily available from local manufacturers, Holden, Ford and Chrysler. Fewer than 100 Trekkas were eventually sold in Australia.\nIn July 1969, at the height of the American War in Vietnam, five Trekkas were flown into South Vietnam in RNZAF Bristol Freighters. These served as runabouts and sometimes as ambulances with a civilian hospital run by a New Zealand surgical team. Heavy rains and poor roads led to breakdowns. The Trekka did, however, prove unattractive to black market thieves, who preferred the more ubiquitous and tougher Land Rover and Jeep.\n\nA single Trekka was exported to General Motors in Detroit in 1969, the purpose and outcome of which is unknown.\n\nExports of CKD Trekkas to Indonesia began in 1971 for assembly there.\n\nTrekkas were exported to Latin America and Caribbean in 1970s. Tap taps in Haiti were used Trekka.\n\nIn New Zealand at that time, government regulation made it very difficult to purchase a new car because of restricted import numbers, high tariffs and high deposit requirements for hire purchase. Because the Trekka was 80% New Zealand sourced and sold as an \"agricultural vehicle\", there were no restrictions on its availability (apart from manufacturer capacity), it was relatively inexpensive and could be bought with a lower deposit than other vehicle types. It was bought in large numbers by local authorities and trades people.\n\nThe Trekka is remembered for the unlikely success of its low quality manufacturing and simple design. Despite its flaws, it generally suited the purpose for which it was made. \n\nOnce import restrictions were eased and as the economic situation in New Zealand improved, the marginal economics of limited production led to its commercial demise. Ultimately, a Skoda-powered two wheel drive utility vehicle could no longer meet the needs of increasingly affluent rural and construction sectors.\n\nThe Trekka has since become something of a New Zealand icon representing the \"Kiwi can-do\" attitude of the 1960s. It survives as a curiosity in the collections of New Zealand and Australian vehicle collectors.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819834", "title": "Thud!", "text": "Thud!\n\nThud! is a fantasy novel by British writer Terry Pratchett, the 34th book in the \"Discworld\" series, first released in the United States on 13 September 2005, then the United Kingdom on 1 October 2005. It was released in the U.S. three weeks before Pratchett's native UK in order to coincide with a signing tour. It was nominated for the Locus Award for Best Fantasy Novel in 2006.\n\nAs the book opens, a dwarf demagogue, Grag Hamcrusher, is apparently murdered. Ethnic tensions between Ankh-Morpork's troll and dwarf communities mount in the build-up to the anniversary of the Battle Of Koom Valley, an ancient battle where trolls and dwarfs seemingly ambushed each other. Lord Vetinari persuades Commander Vimes to interview a vampire applicant to the Ankh-Morpork City Watch. The new recruit, Lance-Constable Salacia \"Sally\" von Humpeding, along with Sergeant Angua and Captain Carrot, is attached to the investigation surrounding Hamcrusher's death.\n\nMeanwhile, Corporal Nobbs and Sergeant Colon begin an investigation into the theft of the fifty-foot painting, \"The Battle of Koom Valley\" by the insane artist Methodia Rascal, from a city art gallery. Most of the populace believe the painting holds clues to a treasure hidden in Koom Valley. Nobbs has a new girlfriend, exotic dancer Tawneee; Nobby first caught her eye when slipping an IOU into her garter. Other subplots involve the tension between vampires and werewolves (new recruit Lance-Constable von Humpeding and Sergeant Angua), and the presence of Vetinari's auditor, A.E. Pessimal, in the Watch House.\n\nVimes finds himself pressured by Lord Vetinari to solve the murder quickly, before inter-species war erupts in Ankh-Morpork. Vimes and Sergeant Angua visit the dwarves' under-city mine, where a nervous dwarf named Helmclever draws a mysterious sign in the spilled coffee on his desk. In a fit of his particular brand of omnidirectional anger, Vimes veers off into the mine where he cuts himself, he supposes, on a locked door. Later, he persuades the deep down dwarves to allow Captain Carrot to be the \"\"smelter\"\" who looks for the truth of the murder.\n\nWhen Carrot tries to find that truth, however, he is shown a body that was mutilated after death, and a confusing patch of clues. Angua discovers that a troll really \"was\" in the mine at the time of the murder, much to the consternation and fear of the dwarves who claimed a troll did the killing. This troll turns out to be Brick, who is a gutter troll of the lowest sort, addicted to Troll drugs beginning with \"S,\" (such as Slab, Scrape, Slice, Slide etc.) and who becomes the protégé of Sergeant Detritus.\n\nAngua and Sally soon discover four more bodies in the mine, dwarves clearly murdered by other dwarves. One of these dwarves used his own blood to scrawl yet another mysterious rune on the back of a door in the mine—the same door that Commander Vimes accidentally 'cut' himself on the other side of. The Deep-Downers flee for the mountains, taking the talking cube they found at the bottom of Methodia Rascal's well, and the painting of Koom Valley. As a parting shot, they send a squad of their guards to invade the Vimes/Ramkin family mansion and attempt to murder Lady Sybil Ramkin and Young Sam. The two survive unharmed, thanks to the fighting talents of Vimes and the family butler, Willikins, as well as a dwarf being foolish enough to provoke Sybil's dragons.\n\nVimes, along with family and several members of the Watch, travels to Koom Valley. He believes he is pursuing justice, but an astute troll king named Mr. Shine and a bright young grag named Bashfulsson know that Vimes is carrying the Summoning Dark, the quasi-demonic entity that wreaks vengeance on dwarves who have done evil in the sight of other dwarves. Vimes acquired the Summoning Dark when he touched the cursed door in the city mine, but his own internal watchman proves stronger than it is.\n\nVimes soon discovers the real secret of Koom Valley: the trolls and dwarves did not intend war, but had originally come to Koom Valley to broker peace. Weather conspired against them and after a thick fog caused a \"\"double ambush\"\", a flash flood carried them into the caverns below.\n\nThe Deep-Downers intended to destroy the evidence of this attempt at peace to continue the war between troll and dwarf and had sought out the cave where the surviving trolls and dwarfs had been washed. Preserved as a form of stalagmite, troll and dwarf had died as friends in the cavern while the ancient troll king and dwarf king played a game of Thud.\n\nAs the book ends, the tomb of the dead trolls and dwarves is opened to the public, in the hope that the two races will learn to end their centuries of animosity. Back in Ankh-Morpork the equipment that the Deep-Downers had abruptly left behind in their haste has been confiscated, under the clause of eminent domain by Lord Vetinari, seeing them as useful for his future \"\"Undertaking\"\" project.\n\n\"Strange Horizons\" found it to be \"(l)ess-than-transcendent Pratchett\", but noted that this meant it was \"still better and more enjoyable, more worth reading than almost anything but more Pratchett\", and expressed concern that Vimes' \"immensely satisfying\" victory over the Summoning Dark was at the expense of \"the compelling contradiction in his nature\", thereby making him a less unpredictable character. \"Kirkus Reviews\" found it \"(b)itingly relevant and laugh-out-loud funny,\" while assessing that Pratchett \"loses his way a bit towards the end.\"\n\n\"Grumpy Old Bookman\" declared it to be one of Pratchett's \"funniest\" — although \"not the strongest (...) in the last five years [2000-2005]\" and considered that it would make a better film than most Discworld novels.\n\nThud! is named after, and heavily features, the boardgame Thud. The game was developed earlier as a piece of Discworld merchandise and was inspired by the Discworld novels rather than originating in them. A new edition of the game was released at the same time as the book with a new game variation called 'Koom Valley Thud'.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819835", "title": "Manfredonia", "text": "Manfredonia\n\nManfredonia is a town and comune of Apulia, Italy, in the province of Foggia, from which it is northeast by rail. Manfredonia is situated on the coast, facing east, to the south of Monte Gargano, and gives its name to the gulf to the east of it. its population was 56,932.\n\nThe area of current Manfredonia was settled in ancient times by the Greeks, founded by Diomedes. The flourishing Greek colony, having fallen into the hands of the Samnites, was retaken about 335 BC by King Alexander of Epirus, uncle of Alexander the Great.\nIn 189 BC Sipontum was conquered by the Romans and became a colony of citizens. It was a port at the junction of the road which basically followed the Adriatic coast (but giving the Garganus mountain's peninsula just north a miss) and a road through Arpi, Luceria, Aecae and Aequum Tuticum connecting at Beneventum to the Via Appia.\n\nIn AD 663 it was taken and destroyed by the Slavs (Narentines). In the 9th century, Sipontum was for a time in the power of the Saracens.\n\nIn 1042 the Normans made it the seat of one of their twelve counties, while the Monte Gargano remained Byzantine. The Normans won a decisive victory there over the Byzantine general Argyrus in 1052.\nSiponto was an archbishopric in the Norman countship of Apulia.\nHaving become unhealthy owing to the stagnation of the water in the lagoons after the 1223 earthquake, Siponto was abandoned.\nThe modern city of Manfredonia was built by King Manfred between 1256–1263, several kilometers north of the ruins of the ancient Sipontum. The Angevins, who had defeated Manfred and stripped him of the Kingdom of Sicily, renamed it \"Sypontum Novellum\" (\"New Sypontum\"), but that name never stuck.\nIn 1528 Manfredonia resisted a French attack led by the Viscount of Lautrec. In 1620 it was destroyed by the Turks, who left only the castle and part of the walls.\n\nManfredonia is located in south of Gargano. It borders with the municipalities of Carapelle, Cerignola, Foggia, Monte Sant'Angelo, San Giovanni Rotondo, San Marco in Lamis and Zapponeta.\n\nIt counts 7 civil parishes (\"frazioni\"): Borgo Mezzanone, Riviera Sud (Sciali and Ippocampo), Pastini, Ruggiano, San Salvatore, Siponto and Tomaiuolo.\n\nThe medieval castle, begun by the Hohenstaufen and completed by the Angevins, and parts of the town walls are well preserved. The castle received a new line of walls in the 15th century\n\nIn the church of San Domenico, the Chapel of the Maddalena contains old paintings of the 14th century. \n\nThree kilometers () to the southwest is the former Siponto Cathedral, now the Basilica of Santa Maria Maggiore di Siponto, built in 1117 in the Romanesque style, with a dome and crypt.\n\nThe Abbey of San Leonardo in Lama Volara, nearer to Foggia, belonging to the Teutonic Order, is of the same date.\n\nManfredonia is also the location of the seat of the Archbishopric of Manfredonia-Vieste-S. Giovanni Rotondo in Manfredonia Cathedral, rebuilt in about 1600 after the destruction by the Turks of its 13th-century predecessor.\n\nA dual carriageway links Manfredonia to Foggia, a distance of and to A14 motorway.\n\nManfredonia railway station is the terminal of the Foggia-Manfredonia line. Other stations serving the municipal territory are Manfredonia Città (closed), Siponto (in the homonymous village), Frattarolo, Candelaro and Amendola.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819851", "title": "Mangbetu people", "text": "Mangbetu people\n\nThe Mangbetu are a people of the Democratic Republic of the Congo, living in the northeastern province of Haut-Uele.\n\nThe language is called \"kingbetu\" in the regional language of Lingala, but the Mangbetu call it \"nemangbetu\". It is a member of the Central Sudanic language family.\n\nThe Mangbetu are known for their highly developed art and music. One instrument associated with and named after them is the Mangbetu harp or guitar. See the National Music Museum and the Hamill Gallery for images. One harp has sold for over $100,000.\n\nMusicologists have also sought out the Mangbetu to make video and audio recordings of their music.\n\nThe Mangbetu stood out to European colonists because of their elongated heads. Traditionally, babies' heads were wrapped tightly with cloth in order to give them this distinctive appearance. The practice, called Lipombo, began dying out in the 1950s with the arrival of more Europeans and westernization. Because of this distinctive look, it is easy to recognize Mangbetu figures in African art.\n\nBy the early 18th century the Mangbetu had consisted of a number of small clans who, from southward migrations, had come in contact with a number of northward-migrating Bantu-speaking tribes among whom they lived interspersed. In the late 18th century a group of Mangbetu-speaking elites, mainly from the Mabiti clan, assumed control over other Mangbetu clans and many neighboring Bantu-speaking tribes. It is likely that their knowledge of iron and copper forgery, by which they made weapons and fine ornaments, gave them a military and economic advantage over their neighbors.\n\nMany recent ideologies feature the Mangbetu as a historically cannibalistic people. Historian David Levering Lewis asserts that a \"wave of flesh-eating that spread from inveterate cannibals like Bakusa to Batetela, the Mangbetu, and much of the Zande\" resulted from ongoing political disorder caused by Swahili raids in the 1880s.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819852", "title": "Ernest Klein (chess player)", "text": "Ernest Klein (chess player)\n\nErnest Ludwig Klein (1910–1990) was an Austrian-British chess master and author.\n\nBorn in Vienna into a Jewish family, he emigrated to the United Kingdom in 1930s. He tied for 3rd-4th at Győr 1930 (Isaac Kashdan won), lost a match to Savielly Tartakower (1 : 3) at Paris 1935, tied for 4-5th at Margate 1935 (Samuel Reshevsky), and was unofficial Alexander Alekhine's second in his World Championship match against Max Euwe in 1935.\n\nHe tied for 5-6th at Hastings 1938/39 (László Szabó won), shared 2nd with Salo Flohr, behind Euwe, at Bournemouth 1939.\n\nAfter World War II, he tied for 9-10th at Birmingham 1951 (Staunton Memorial, won by Petar Trifunović and Vasja Pirc), and won the British Championship in 1951.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819855", "title": "Ricardo Pérez Godoy", "text": "Ricardo Pérez Godoy\n\nRicardo Pío Pérez Godoy (9 June 1905 – 26 July 1982) was a general of the Peruvian army who launched a coup d'état in July 1962, headed a military junta until March 1963 and served as the 55th President of Peru (1st President of the Military Junta).\n\nThree main candidates participated in the Peruvian presidential elections of 10 June 1962: Víctor Raúl Haya de la Torre, founder and leader of the APRA, future president Fernando Belaúnde, and former dictator Manuel A. Odría. Haya de la Torre gained most of the votes according to the official results, one percentage point ahead of Belaúnde.\n\nHowever, none of the candidates reached the margin of one-third of the votes needed to become president. Therefore, the final decision lay with the Peruvian Congress. Haya de la Torre and Odría formed an alliance in order to install Odría as the new president.\n\nAt 3:20 in the morning at the Presidential Palace, one of the thirty tanks stationed outside gunned its engine and rammed through the black wrought-iron gates. Manuel Prado, the constitutional President of Peru, was thrown out of office in a coup, just ten days short of completing his six-year term.\n\nPérez Godoy, as Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, headed the military junta formed by high-ranked members of the Peruvian Military Force: General Nicolás Lindley, commander of Peru's army; Vice Admiral Juan Francisco Torres Matos, Admiral of the Navy; and General Pedro Vargas Prada, chief of the air force. Once in the Palace, the four-man junta administered its own swearing-into office. The soldiers then suspended all constitutional guarantees, dissolved Parliament, arrested Electoral Tribunal officials \"for trial\" and promised \"clean and pure elections\" scheduled for June 9, 1963. Lindley was subsequently named Prime Minister.\n\nThe military coup was condemned throughout the world: the initial reaction abroad was of disgust and dismay, something the military junta had not expected. Nine Latin American countries suspended or broke off diplomatic relations. The United States resumed diplomatic links with the new government after several months.\n\nPromising a \"New Peru\", Pérez Godoy pushed through a 24% increase in the budget and decreed new taxes to pay for it, including a one dollar-a-ton levy on anchovies that provoked a strike and threatened to close down the thriving fishmeal industry. And when he refused to approve the construction of a new hospital for Vargas Prada's Air Force and six new ships for Torres Matos' national steamship line, the other junta members turned on him.\n\nPolitically, Pérez Godoy was generally in favor of carrying out the promised June elections even if they should result in a victory for the leftist-turned-moderate APRA Party of Víctor Raúl Haya de la Torre. However, in early 1963, he showed more of an inclination to deviate from the original plan and to stay in power longer than initially planned.\n\nWarned that his comrades-in-arms were determined to remove him, Pérez Godoy tried to no avail to rally support among provincial military commanders and civilians working toward the new presidential elections in June.\n\nAir Force Major General Pedro Vargas Prada and Vice Admiral Francisco Torres Matos gave him an ultimatum: resign or be driven out. Pérez Godoy replied: \"I refuse to leave. It is too late now to continue this conversation. I am going to retire.\" \n\nHe was deposed by the junta's next man in line, Army General Nicolás Lindley, who swiftly moved into the presidency on March 3. Lindley restored the schedule for democratic elections and turned over the office of president to election winner Fernando Belaúnde.\n"}
{"id": "1819858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819858", "title": "Tufted deer", "text": "Tufted deer\n\nThe tufted deer (\"Elaphodus cephalophus\") is a small species of deer characterized by a prominent tuft of black hair on its forehead and fang-like canines for the males. It is a close relative of the muntjac, living somewhat further north over a wide area of central China northeastern Myanmar. Suffering from overhunting and habitat loss, this deer is considered near-threatened. It is the only member of the genus Elaphodus. It is restricted to forested mountain habitat up to 4500 m above sea level, making study difficult.\n\nFour subspecies of the tufted deer are recognized, with one having doubtful taxonomic status:\n\n\nThe tufted deer is similar to a muntjac in appearance, but the longer necks and legs give it a slightly leaner appearance. The coat is coarse with short and stiff hairs, being almost black in the winter and chocolate brown in the summer. The lips, tip of the ears, and the underside of the tails are white. A tuft of horseshoe-shaped hair is present on the forehead and upper neck, being brown to black, and can be up to long.\n\nPerhaps the most striking feature of this deer is the fang-like canines in the males of the species. These can grow up to long, or longer in rare cases.\n\nThe tufted deer is a small deer, but still larger than most muntjac species. It stands at at the shoulder, and the weight varies from . The tail is short at around . The antler is only present in males and is extremely short, almost hidden by its long tuft of hair.\n\nThe tufted deer is found mainly in China, where it occurs in the south from eastern coast to eastern Tibet. It is absent from the extreme south of the country. There are old records of this species in northeastern Myanmar, but recent surveys failed to find any, possibly due to the lack of surveys on the preferred habitat.\n\nThe tufted deer inhabits high, damp forests at above sea level, close to the tree line. It is found in both evergreen and deciduous forests with extensive understory and nearby freshwater supply. The availability of salt licks is also a positive factor to the presence of this animal. This deer is able to withstand minor human disturbances, and is occasionally found in cultivated lands.\n\nThe tufted deer is mainly solitary or found in pairs. It is crepuscular and travels in fixed routes about its territory, which is vigorously defended by the males. It is a timid animal and prefer places with good cover, where it is well camouflaged. It can be easily disturbed and, when alarmed, it will let out a bark before fleeing, moving in cat-like jumps.\n\nThe mating season occurs between September and December, during which the loud barks males make could be easily heard. The gestation period lasts about 6 months and a litter of 1–2 is born in early summer. The young becomes sexually mature at the age of 1–2 years, and could live up to 10–12 years in the wild.\n\nSurveys from 1998 put the estimated population around 300,000–500,000 individuals, though a substantial, ongoing decline is almost certain. Overharvesting of large animals in China is a serious threat not only to this species. The hide of this deer is a fairly high-end textile material, especially after the vigorous conservation efforts made on other more endangered species. Habitat loss is also an issue in this rapidly developing country. In China, this species is listed as provincially protected species in many places, but it is not protected by the national law. It occurs in a number of protected areas. More study needs to be done on this poorly known species for efficient protection.\n\nThe tufted deer is part of the yellow species survival plan program by the association of zoos and aquariums, because it cannot maintain 90% gene diversity for 10 generations. To prevent gene diversity to continue dropping the program plans to work on ex situ populations by increasing the number of exhibit places in zoos and making sure that animals can breed. Prior to this the tufted deer population was also decreasing in captivity due to lack of interest in the species even though captivity greatly help conserve this species by facilitating interbreeding and gene diversity.\n"}
{"id": "1819859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819859", "title": "Gong Baoren", "text": "Gong Baoren\n\nGong Baoren (, born August 1971 in Qingyuan Manchu Autonomous County, Liaoning) is a retired Chinese para swimmer who competed in the Sydney 2000 paralympic men's 100 m breaststroke SB7 event, finishing 0.03 second behind the finalist. He was distinguished from the other competitors in that he had no arms.\n"}
{"id": "1819866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819866", "title": "Mangabey", "text": "Mangabey\n\nThe term mangabey can refer to three different genera of Old World monkeys in the tribe Papionini.\n\nThe three genera of mangabeys are:\n\n\"Lophocebus\" and \"Cercocebus\" were once thought to be very closely related, so much so that all the species were in one genus. However, the species within genus \"Lophocebus\" are now thought to be more closely related to the baboons in genus \"Papio\", while the species within genus \"Cercocebus\" are more closely related to the mandrill. \n\nThe single species in \"Rungwecebus\" was discovered recently.\n"}
{"id": "1819870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819870", "title": "Pierre Martinet", "text": "Pierre Martinet\n\nPierre Martinet is an ex-agent of DGSE, the French external intelligence agency. In 2005 he published the book \"La DGSE : service action, un agent sort de l'ombre\" (The DGSE, Action Service, An Agent Comes Out of the Shadow).\n\nIn an interview published in Swedish newspaper \"Aftonbladet\" on April 30, 2005, Martinet describes how the habits of assassination victims are mapped out by a preparatory team (which he was part of), for example by setting up illegal video surveillance. Other teams carry out the rest of the work. He asserts that \"\"murder operations are no fantasies. They really exist. The final death sentence always comes from the top level. There is only one who can make that decision. The head of state. But that doesn't mean it always ends that way. [...]You don't think of what happened to the targets afterwards, if they have been \"treated\" or not.\"\"\n"}
{"id": "1819872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819872", "title": "Lesbian erotica", "text": "Lesbian erotica\n\nLesbian erotica deals with depictions in the visual arts of lesbianism, which is the expression of female-on-female sexuality. Lesbianism has been a theme in erotic art since at least the time of ancient Rome, and many regard depictions of lesbianism (as for sexuality in general) to be erotic.\n\nFor much of the history of cinema and television, lesbianism was considered taboo, though since the 1960s it has increasingly become a genre in its own right. First found in softcore movies and erotic thrillers, depictions of lesbianism entered mainstream cinema in the 1980s. In pornography, depictions of lesbian sex form a popular subgenre, directed toward male heterosexual audiences, lesbian audiences, and bisexual audiences of any gender.\n\nSexual relations between women have been illustrated as well as narrated, but much of the written material from the early modern period has been destroyed. What seems clear from the historical record is that much of the lesbian material in pornographic texts was intended for a male readership.\n\nDepictions of lesbianism are found among the erotic frescoes of Pompeii. Having all but disappeared during the Middle Ages, they made a comeback after the Renaissance. François Boucher and J. M. W. Turner were among the forerunners of 19th century artists who featured eroticism between women among their work. Like other painters (such as Jean-Honoré Fragonard), Boucher found inspiration in classical mythology. He was one of many artists to use various myths surrounding the goddess Diana, including the often-depicted story of Callisto, Diana's nymph who was seduced by Jupiter, with the god taking Diana's form since Callisto had vowed chastity.\n\nIn the 19th century, lesbianism became more openly discussed and found its way into many fields of art. In France the influence of Charles Baudelaire is considered crucial, on literature as well as on the visual arts, though according to Dorothy Kosinski it was a matter not for the high arts but mostly for popular erotica. Auguste Rodin's illustrations for Baudelaire's \"Les Fleurs du Mal\" included lesbian scenes. Gustave Courbet's \"Le Sommeil\" (1866) illustrates a scene from the 1835 story \"Mademoiselle de Maupin\" by Théophile Gautier (though Baudelaire's \"Delphine et Hippolyte\" from \"Les fleurs\" is also cited as an inspiration), depicting two women asleep after love-making. Its lesbian subject matter was controversial enough to be the subject of a police report in 1872, but Courbet's painting is credited with inspiring others to depict \"sapphic couple[s]\", which in turn led to \"soften[ing] taboos by revealing love between women and forcing society to see those whom it regarded as deviants and sinners.\" Nonetheless, the audience for such artwork was predominantly male (Courbet's painting was commissioned by a profligate Turkish diplomat), therefore \"the term \"lesbian\" should perhaps be provided with quotation marks, insofar as we are dealing with images made by men, for men, and in which the very disposition of the women's bodies declares that they are arranged more for the eyes of the viewer than for those of one another.\" In the twentieth century the image's sensuality would appeal to lesbian viewers as well.\nIn 19th century French painting, lesbianism was often depicted within the context of Orientalism, and was thus apt to be affected by the era's colonialism and imperialism; as a result, assumptions regarding race and class informed the images, especially when lesbianism was linked to harem and brothel scenes. Later depictions of lesbians in British and American art may reflect like cultural mores, or merely borrow from formal pictorial conventions.\n\nIn the second half of the 19th century, the lesbian theme was well-established, and its artists include Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec, Constantin Guys, Edgar Degas, and Jean-Louis Forain. Later artists include Gustav Klimt, Egon Schiele, Christian Schad, Albert Marquet, Balthus, and Leonor Fini. More explicit depictions were an important part of the work of erotic illustrators such as Édouard-Henri Avril, Franz von Bayros, Martin van Maële, Rojan, Gerda Wegener, and Tom Poulton. Explicit depictions of lovemaking between women were also an important theme in Japanese erotic \"shunga\", including the work of such masters as Utamaro, Hokusai, Katsukawa Shunchō, Utagawa Kunisada, Utagawa Kuniyoshi, Yanagawa Shigenobu, Keisai Eisen, and Kawanabe Kyōsai.\n\nIn art and fetish photography, notable artists to work with lesbian themes include David Hamilton, Steve Diet Goedde and Bob Carlos Clarke. More recently, lesbian and bisexual photographers such as Nan Goldin, Tee Corinne, and Judy Francesconi have focused on erotic themes, reclaiming a subject that has traditionally been mainly treated through the eye of male artists.\n\nLesbian and erotic themes were restrained or coded in early cinema. Even scenes suggestive of lesbianism were controversial, such as the presentation of women dancing together in \"Pandora's Box\" (1929) and \"The Sign of the Cross\" (1932). \"Pandora's Box\" is notable for its lesbian subplot with the Countess (Alice Roberts) being defined by her masculine look and because she wears a tuxedo. Lesbian themes were found in European films such as \"Mädchen in Uniform\" (1931). By the mid-1930s, the Hays Code banned any homosexual themes in Hollywood-made films and several pre-Code films had to be cut to be re-released. For example, \"The Sign of the Cross\" originally included the erotic \"Dance of the Naked Moon\", but the dance was considered a \"lesbian dance\" and was cut for a 1938 reissue. Even suggestions of a romantic attraction between women were rare, and the \"L-word\" was taboo. Lesbianism was not treated in American cinema until the 1962 release of \"Walk on the Wild Side\" in which there is a subtly implied lesbian relationship between Jo and Hallie. Depictions of lovemaking between women first appeared in several films of the late 1960s – \"The Fox\" (1967), \"The Killing of Sister George\" (1968), and \"Therese and Isabelle\" (1968).\n\nDuring the 1970s, depictions of sex between women were largely restricted to semi-pornographic softcore and sexploitation films, such as \"Cherry, Harry & Raquel!\" (1970), \"Score\" (1974), \"Emmanuelle\" (1974), and \"Bilitis\" (1977). Although semi-explicit heterosexual sex scenes had been part of mainstream cinema since the late 1960s, equivalent depictions of women having sex only began making their appearance in mainstream film during the 1980s. These were typically in the context of a film that was specifically lesbian-themed, such as \"Personal Best\" (1982), \"Lianna\" (1983), and \"Desert Hearts\" (1985). The vampire film \"The Hunger\" (1983) also contained a seduction and sex scene between Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon. Jacques Saurel's film \"Joy et Joan\" (1985) also belongs to this new more-than-softcore film performance.\n\n\"Henry and June\" (1990) had several lesbian scenes, including one that was considered explicit enough to give the film an NC-17 rating. (There was some controversy as to whether the MPAA had given the film a more restrictive rating than it normally would have because of the lesbian nature of the scene in question.) \"Basic Instinct\" (1992) contained mild lesbian content, but established lesbianism as a theme in the erotic thriller genre. Later, in the 1990s, erotic thrillers such as \"Wild Side\" (1995) and \"Bound\" (1996) explored lesbian relationships and contained explicit lesbian sex scenes.\n\nFrom the 1990s, depictions of sex between women became fairly common in mainstream cinema. Females kissing has increasingly been shown in films and on television, often as a way to include a sexually arousing element in a film without actually having the film gain a more restrictive rating by depicting sex or nudity.\n\n\"The L Word\" was an American television drama series originally shown on Showtime from 2004 to 2009 and explored lesbian, bisexual and transgender relationships, and contained numerous explicit lesbian sex scenes.\n\nLesbianism is an important theme in both hardcore and softcore pornography, with many adult video titles, websites, and entire studios (such as Girlfriends Films and Sweetheart Video) devoted entirely to depictions of lesbian sexual activity. Lesbian pornography typically is aimed predominantly at a male audience, with a smaller female audience, and many heterosexual adult videos include a lesbian sex scene. However, in Japanese adult video, lesbianism is considered a fetish and is only occasionally included in heterosexual videos. \"Rezu\" (レズ—lesbian) video is a specialized genre, though a large number of such videos are produced.\n\nErotica and pornography involving sex between women have been predominantly produced by men for a male and female audience. A 1996 study by Henry E. Adams, Lester W. Wright, Jr., and Bethany A. Lohr, published in the \"Journal of Abnormal Psychology\", found that heterosexual men have the highest genital and subjective arousal to pornography depicting heterosexual activity, rather than lesbian activity. Another study indicated that heterosexual men are more aroused by depictions involving lesbian sex than they are by depictions of heterosexual activity, while heterosexual and lesbian women were aroused by a wide range of sexual stimuli. On-screen lesbian sex (in both Western and Japanese pornography), while typically aimed at a male audience, has developed a small lesbian audience as well, but still contrasts with gay male pornography, which is considered a genre of its own.\n\nDeborah Swedberg, in an analysis published in the \"NWSA Journal\" in 1989, argues that it is possible for lesbian viewers to reappropriate lesbian porn. Swedberg notes that, typically, all-women films differ from mixed porn (with men and women) in, among other things, the settings (less anonymous and more intimate) and the very acts performed (more realistic and emotionally involved, and with a focus on the whole body rather than just the genitals): \"the subject of the heterosexually produced all-women videos is female pleasure\". She argues (against Laura Mulvey's \"Visual Pleasure and Narrative Cineman\" and Susanne Kappeler's \"Pornography and Representation\", for example) that such movies allow for female subjectivity since the women are more than just objects of exchange. Appropriation by women of male-made lesbian erotica (such as by David Hamilton) was signaled also by Tee Corinne.\n\nSome pornography is made by lesbians, such as the defunct lesbian erotic magazine \"On Our Backs\"; videos by Fatale Media, SIR Video, Pink and White Productions, and BLEU Productions; and web sites such as the CyberDyke Network.\n\nMainstream lesbian pornography is criticized by some members of the lesbian community for its inauthenticity. According to author Elizabeth Whitney, \"lesbianism is not acknowledged as legitimate\" in lesbian porn due to the prevalence of \"heteronormatively feminine women\", the experimental nature, and the constant catering to the male gaze, all of which counter real life lesbianism.\n\nA study conducted by Valerie Webber found that most actors in lesbian porn consider their own pornographic sex somewhere on a spectrum between real and fake sex, depending on several factors. They were more likely to consider it authentic if there was a real attraction between themselves and the other actor(s) in the scene, and if they felt mutual respect between themselves and the producers.\n\nAuthenticity in porn is disputed because some assert that the only authentic sex has no motive other than sex itself. Porn sex, being shot for a camera, automatically has other motives than sex itself. On the other side, some assert that all porn sex is authentic since the sex is an occurrence that took place, and that is all that is needed to classify it as authentic.\n\nWith regard to the authenticity of their performance, some lesbian porn actors describe their performance as an exaggerated, altered version of their real personality, providing some authenticity to the performance. Authenticity depends on real life experiences, so some lesbian porn actors feel the need to create an entirely different persona in order to feel safe. Webber writes of Agatha, a queer actor in lesbian porn who \"prefers that the activity and ambiance of her performances be very inauthentic, because otherwise it feels 'too close to home, referring to the oppression and verbal abuse she is subject to by homophobic men in her daily life.\n\nLike in straight and gay male porn, there is an emphasis on penetration in lesbian porn. Even though studies have found that dildos have minimal use in real life lesbian sexual activity, lesbian porn prominently features dildos. According to Lydon, the ability to achieve orgasm clitorally, as opposed to penetratively, eliminates the need for a phallus and, by extension, for a man. For this reason, male producers continue to include, and male viewers continue to demand, a phallus as a central feature in lesbian porn.\n\nSeveral penile plethysmography studies have shown high levels of arousal in heterosexual men to pornography showing sexual activity between women. One study found heterosexual men to have the highest genital and subjective arousals to pornography depicting heterosexual activity, rather than lesbian activity, while another study reported that on average heterosexual men are more aroused by pornography showing sexual activity between women than they are by depictions of heterosexual activity. These findings correspond with reports in several earlier studies (summarized in Whitley et al. (1999); see also anecdotal reports in Loftus (2002)).\nMale perception of lesbianism as erotic has been shown to correspond with recent exposure to lesbian pornography; however, men who have recently viewed lesbian pornography are no more likely than others to perceive lesbians as hypersexual and/or bisexual. Bernard E. Whitley, Jr., et al. hypothesized, upon reaching this conclusion, that \"pornography may [...] lead heterosexual men to view lesbianism as erotic by means of a generalized association of female-female sexual activity with sexual arousal\", but noted that \"more research is needed to clarify the relationship between exposure to pornography and the perceived erotic value of lesbianism.\"\n\nEnjoyment of lesbian pornography can have little connection to feelings towards homosexuals in real life. A heterosexual man may be aroused by pornographic depictions of lesbianism yet hold homophobic views. However, several studies suggest that men who perceive lesbianism as erotic may have less negative attitudes toward lesbians than they do toward gay men. Studies have further shown that, while men tend to correlate lesbianism with eroticism more often than women do, women perceive male homosexuality as erotic no more often than men do.\n\nLesbian views on sex between women in erotica are complex. Historically, women have been less involved in the production and consumption of erotica in general and visual pornography in particular than have men. Since the late 1960s, radical feminist objections to pornography and the sexual objectification of women have influenced the lesbian community, with some feminists objecting to all pornography. However, since the end of the 1980s' \"Feminist Sex Wars\" and the beginning of the \"women's erotica\" movement, feminist views on pornography, both lesbian and heterosexual, have shifted. \nSome lesbians are even consumers of mainstream pornography, but many dislike what they perceive as inaccurate and stereotypical depictions of women and lesbianism in mainstream pornography. Some are also uncomfortable with male interest in lesbians. As of the early 2000s, there is a very strong lesbian erotic literature movement, as well as a small genre of pornography made by lesbians for a lesbian audience.\n\nAn increasing amount of queer erotic literature has been released in recent decades, written by women and usually for women. There is a large sub-category of this erotica that involves various queer relationships while also including bisexuality and transgender characters into the writing. By introducing various other identities and sexualities, it opens up the erotica world to more gender-fluidity and acceptance of other queer or non-heteronormative sexualities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819879", "title": "Manduria", "text": "Manduria\n\nManduria is a city and \"comune\" of Apulia, Italy, in the province of Taranto. With c. 32,000 inhabitants (2013), it is located east of Taranto.\n\nIt was an important stronghold of the Messapii against Taras. Archidamus III, king of Sparta, fell beneath its walls in 338 BC, while leading the army of the latter (Manduria is also referred to as \"Mandonion\" in works by the Greek and Roman historian Plutarch). Manduria revolted against Hannibal, but was taken in 209 BC.\n\nPliny the Elder mentions Manduria in Natural History. He describes a well with a strangely constant water level. No matter how much water was taken out the water level never changed. The well also features an almond tree growing right from the middle of the well shaft. The well may still be seen today.\n\nThe town was destroyed by the Saracens in the 10th century. The inhabitants rebuilt on the site of the present town, which they renamed Casalnuovo. In 1700 they took back the ancient name of Manduria.\n\nThe modern city is close to the site of the ancient Manduria, considerable remains of the defences of which can still be seen; they consisted of a double line of wall built of rectangular blocks of stone, without mortar, and with a broad ditch in front. Ancient tombs with gold ornaments were found in 1886.\n\nThe symbol of the city is a well with an almond tree growing from the center, which was mentioned by the Roman author Pliny the Elder in Naturalis Historia, a work published in the 1st century AD. The well (named Fonte Pliniano after Pliny the Elder ) can still be seen today exactly as it was described some 2,000 years ago, with the almond tree still rising out of the center. Other sights include:\n\n\nPrimitivo di Manduria is a heavy, full-bodied red wine, an effect of the warm growing conditions in Southern Italy's Apulia region. It is made from the locally grown Primitivo grape (also known as Zinfandel).\n\nThe quality of Primitivo wine has been recognized in Italy for centuries. It was once mainly used for blending by more commercially successful wineries in Northern Italy. They relied on it to give their wines depth. Because of a general lack of commercialization in Apulia, Primitivo is still largely unknown outside of Italy but the wine is gaining popularity in the UK for example. Small-scale producers have a hard time reaching the international market to compete on the same level as more famous Italian wine varieties.\n\nThe Primitivo grape variety has been discovered to be genetically similar to California's Zinfandel. It has its roots in the oldest of wine traditions. While some claim that the Primitivo grape originated in ancient Greece and was brought over by some of the first settlers of the Italian peninsula, recent DNA-based research has shown it to be genetically identical to a Croatian varietal.\n\nPrimitivo di Manduria DOC is made from 100% Primitivo grapes (unlike other Primitivo wines, like Gioia del Colle Primitivo, which are blends). This wine is also characterized by an unusually high alcohol by volume percentage - around 14%. Wines made from Primitivo have notes of plum and spice, like Zinfandel, but because of different growing soils and climate, the fruit character is less jammy, the structure more akin to old world wines, with rustic notes of earth and spice, as well as tamed fruit flavors.\n\nIn addition to Primitivo di Manduria, other typical recognised food of the city are Uva di Puglia PGI, \"Terra d'Otranto\" extra-virgin olive, an ecotype of carosello and the tomato \"Pomodorino di Manduria\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1819888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819888", "title": "Wreck of the Old 97", "text": "Wreck of the Old 97\n\nThe Wreck of the Old 97 was an American rail disaster involving the Southern Railway mail train, officially known as the \"Fast Mail\", while en route from Monroe, Virginia, to Spencer, North Carolina, on September 27, 1903. Due to excessive speed in an attempt to maintain schedule, the train derailed at the Stillhouse Trestle near Danville, Virginia, where it careened off the side of the bridge, killing eleven on-board personnel and injuring seven others. The wreck inspired a famous railroad ballad, which was the focus of a convoluted copyright lawsuit but became seminal in the genre of country music.\n\nThe Wreck of Old 97 occurred when the engineer, 33-year-old Joseph A. (\"Steve\") Broady, at the controls of Southern Railway 1102, or the \"Fast Mail\", was operating the train at high speed in order to stay on schedule and arrive at Spencer on time. The \"Fast Mail\" had a reputation for never being late. Locomotive 1102, a ten-wheeler 4-6-0 engine built by Baldwin Locomotive Works in Philadelphia, had rolled out of the factory in early 1903, less than a year before the wreck.\n\nOn the day of the accident, \"Fast Mail\" was behind schedule when it left Washington, D.C., and was one hour late when it arrived in Monroe, Virginia. When the train arrived in Monroe its crew was switched, and when it left Monroe, there were seventeen people on board. The train personnel included Broady, conductor John Blair, fireman A.C. Clapp, student fireman John Hodge (sometimes known as Dodge in other documents), and flagman James Robert Moody. Also aboard were various mail clerks including J.L. Thompson, Scott Chambers, Daniel Flory, Paul Argenbright, Lewis Spies, Frank Brooks, Percival Indermauer, Charles Reams, Jennings Dunlap, Napoleon Maupin, J. H. Thompson, and W. R. Pinckney, an express messenger. When the train pulled into Lynchburg, Wentworth Armistead, a safe locker, boarded the train, so at the time of the wreck, increasing the on-board personnel to eighteen.\n\nAt Monroe, Broady was instructed to get the \"Fast Mail\" to Spencer, distant, on time. The scheduled running time from Monroe to Spencer was four hours, fifteen minutes - an average speed of approximately . In order to make up the one hour delay, the train's average speed would have to be at least . Broady was ordered to maintain speed through Franklin Junction in Gretna, an intermediate stop normally made during the run.\n\nThe route between Monroe and Spencer ran through rolling terrain, and there were numerous danger points due to the combination of grades and tight radius curves. Signs were posted to warn engineers to watch their speed. However, in his quest to stay on time, Broady rapidly descended a heavy grade that ended at the Stillhouse Trestle, which spanned Stillhouse Branch. He was unable to sufficiently reduce speed as he approached the curve leading into the trestle, causing the entire train to derail and plunge into the ravine below. The flames that erupted afterwards consumed the splintered debris of the wooden cars, and it was very hard for the local fire department to extinguish the blaze. The investigation that followed was greatly hampered by the fire and the few witnesses to the incident.\nOf the eleven men who died, nine were immediately killed, and seven were injured. Among the deceased were the conductor Blair, engineer Broady and flagman Moody. The bodies of both firemen were recovered, but they were mangled so badly they were unrecognizable.\n\nSeveral survivors of the wreck believed they stayed alive because they jumped from the train just before the fatal plunge. Among the three survivors was mail clerks Thompson and Harris. Pinckney, the express messenger, also survived the wreck, went home to Charlotte, North Carolina, and immediately resigned after his life-changing experience. Two other survivors, Jennings J. Dunlap and M.C. Maupin, did not resign, although they transferred to new departments. Dunlap went to work on a train that ran between Washington and Charlotte, while Maupin worked at the Charlotte union station.\n\nOnly a fraction of the mail had survived, including a large case filled with canaries that managed to escape and fly to safety. Engine 1102 was recovered, repaired, and it went on to perform further duties until it was dismantled in July 1935.\n\nThe day after the wreck, vice-president Finley made a speech in which he said: \"The train consisted of two postal cars, one express and one baggage car for the storage of mail... Eyewitnesses said the train was approaching the trestle at speeds of 30 to 35 miles an hour.\" The Southern Railway placed blame for the wreck on Broady, disavowing that he had been ordered to run as fast as possible to maintain the schedule. The railroad also claimed he descended the grade leading to the trestle at a speed of more than . Several eyewitnesses to the wreck, however, stated that the speed was probably around . In all likelihood, the railroad was at least partially to blame, as it had a lucrative contract with the U.S. Post Office to haul mail, and the contract included a penalty clause for each minute the train was late into Spencer. It is probably safe to conclude that the engineers piloting the \"Fast Mail\" were always under pressure to stay on time so that the railroad would not be penalized for late mail delivery.\n\n\"Fast Mail\" was in another fatal accident earlier in the year of 1903. On Monday, April 13, the train left Washington at 8:00 a.m., en route to New Orleans. As the train approached Lexington, North Carolina, it collided with a boulder on the track, causing the train to derail and ditch, killing the engineer and fireman. The locomotive that was pulling the train is unknown. Southern #1102 had yet to be delivered to the railroad at that time.\n\nThe disaster served as inspiration for songwriters, the most famous being the ballad first recorded commercially by Virginia musicians G. B. Grayson and Henry Whitter. Vernon Dalhart's version was released in 1924 (Victor Record no. 19427), sometimes cited as the first million-selling country music release in the American record industry, with Frank Ferera playing guitar and Dalhart playing harmonica. Since then, \"Wreck of the Old 97\" has been recorded by numerous artists, including Dalhart himself in 1924 under the name Sid Turner on Perfect 12147, The Statler Brothers (feat. Johnny Cash), Charlie Louvin of The Louvin Brothers, Pink Anderson, Lowgold, David Holt, Flatt and Scruggs, Woody Guthrie, Pete Seeger, Johnny Cash, Hank Snow, Chuck Ragan, Hank Williams III, Patrick Sky, Nine Pound Hammer, Roy Acuff, Boxcar Willie, Lonnie Donegan, The Seekers, Ernest Stoneman & Kahle Brewer, Carolyn Hester, Bert Southwood, Hank Thompson and John Mellencamp. The music was often accompanied by a banjo and a fiddle, while the lyrics were either sung, crooned, yodeled, whistled, hummed, recited, or chanted. The song rivaled that of \"Casey Jones\" for being the number one railroading song of all time.\n\nThe ballad was sung to the tune of \"The Ship That Never Returned\", written by Henry Clay Work in 1865. Originally, the lyrics were attributed to Fred Jackson Lewey and co-author Charles Weston Noell. Lewey claimed to have written the song the day after the accident, in which his cousin Albion Clapp was one of the two firemen killed. Lewey worked in a cotton mill that was at the base of the trestle, and also claimed to be on the scene of the accident pulling the victims from the wreckage. Musician Henry Whitter subsequently polished the original, altering the lyrics, resulting in the version performed by Dalhart.\n\nIn 1927 it was claimed that the author of \"Wreck of the Old 97\" was local resident David Graves George, who was one of the first on the scene. George was a brakeman and telegraph operator who also happened to be a singer. Witnessing the tragedy inspired him to write the ballad. After the 1924 recording by the Victor Talking Machine Company was released, George filed a claim for ownership. On March 11, 1933, Judge John Boyd proclaimed that George was the author of the ballad. Victor Talking Machine Company was forced to pay David $65,000 of the profits from about five million records sold. Victor appealed three times. The first two times, the courts ruled in favor of George. The third time the court of appeals ruled in favor of Victor Talking Machines. George appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, but the court ruled that George had filed his appeal too late and dismissed it, thereby granting Victor ownership of the ballad.\n\n\"Wreck of the Old 97\" is 777 in the Roud Folk Song Index.\n\nThe ballad clearly places the blame for the wreck on the railroad company for pressuring Steve Broady to exceed a safe speed limit, for the lyric (on the Dalhart recording) begins, \"Well, they handed him his orders in Monroe, Virginia, saying, 'Steve, you're way behind time; this is not 38 it is Old 97, you must put her into Spencer on time.'\"\n\nIn \"Scarface,\" Ann Dvorak sings the song while playing it on the piano.\n\nDuring the late 1940s, a parody of the ballad was sung that mocked the ties that the folk singer Pete Seeger had to the Communist Party. The lyrics began, \"Well they gave him his orders up at Party headquarters, saying, 'Pete, you're way behind the times; this is not '38, it is 1947, there's been a change in that old Party line.'\"\n\nAn episode of the \"Suspense\" radio program, broadcast on March 17, 1952, and starring Frank Lovejoy, was loosely based on the ballad, which appears in snatches throughout the play. The facts of the wreck are changed, however, eliminating all but one fireman, all but one mail car clerk, and adding two escaped killers.\n\nThe ballad was referenced in the song \"Blood on the Coal\", a folk parody song from \"A Mighty Wind\", the mockumentary film from Christopher Guest. The reference seems to be a tribute to the ballad, although the wreck described in \"Blood on the Coal\" is an absurd one in which the train crashes into a coal mine.\n\nIn the movie \"The Blues Brothers\", the band is handed a list of songs to play at a gig. While the band is cleaning up Elwood says, \"Sorry we couldn't remember 'The Wreck of the Old 97'.\"\n\nA version of the song, by Ramblin' Jack Elliott, is part of the ambient soundtrack to the video game \"Sid Meier's Railroads!\"\n\nThe popular alt-country band Old 97's take their name from the ballad.\n\nThe title track from Opal's \"Northern Line\" EP (1985) alludes, \"I'm hummin' on a cold train; I'm singin' 'bout the Wreck of the Old 97\". A cover by Old 97's was released on the expanded edition of their 1997 album Too Far to Care.\n\nIn Andrew Lloyd Webber's musical \"Starlight Express\", the main villain (a murderous brake van) claims he's responsible for multiple historical train crashes, including the Old 97.\n\nIn the \"Shining Time Station\" episode \"Happy Accidents\", the Jukebox Band performs this song. Tex and Rex play the banjo together.\n\nKingsley Amis quotes from the ballad in his novel \"Lucky Jim\" (1954 chapter 5).\n\nIn \"The Andy Griffith Show\" episode \"Crime-Free Mayberry\", Andy offers to sing \"The Wreck of the Ole 97\" but Barney calls it a dippy song so Andy doesn't play it. \nNote: Fred Lewey was a cousin of the Fireman Albion Clapp on the Old 97. Actually, Fred was working in a cotton mill right next to the foot of the trestle jumped by the train, and was one of those who helped dig out the bodies of the crew, fully aware that Albion was to be one of them. Fred went home, and started writing the song the next day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819890", "title": "Rural City of Murray Bridge", "text": "Rural City of Murray Bridge\n\nThe Rural City of Murray Bridge is a local government area of South Australia centred on the regional city of Murray Bridge and stretching south to Lake Alexandrina. It was formed in 1977 by amalgamation of the District Council of Mobilong and the Corporation of Murray Bridge.\n\nIt includes the surrounding towns and localities of Avoca Dell, Brinkley, Chapman Bore, East Wellington, Ettrick, Gifford Hill, Greenbanks, Jervois, Kepa, Long Flat, Mobilong, Monarto, Monarto South, Monteith, Mulgundawa, Murrawong, Murray Bridge East, Murray Bridge North, Murray Bridge South, Mypolonga, Nalpa, Northern Heights, Pallamana, Riverglades, Riverglen, Rocky Gully, Sunnyside, Swanport, Toora, Wellington, White Hill, White Sands, Willow Banks, Woodlane and Woods Point, and parts of Burdett, Callington, Caloote, Naturi, Rockleigh, Tepko, Tolderol, Wall Flat and Lake Alexandrina.\n\nIt was first established in 1977 as the District Council of Murray Bridge with the amalgamation of the Corporate Town of Murray Bridge and the surrounding District Council of Mobilong. It was renamed the Rural City of Murray Bridge when it gained city status on 26 January 1993.\n\nThe Rural City of Murray Bridge has a directly-elected mayor. The current elected councillors are as follows:\n"}
{"id": "1819893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819893", "title": "Capalaba, Queensland", "text": "Capalaba, Queensland\n\nCapalaba is an urban locality in the City of Redland, Queensland, Australia. In the , Capalaba had a population of 17,333 people.\n\nThe suburb has large shopping and commercial centres with two malls and a major bus station, as well as light industrial zones surrounded by bushland and residential streets, making it the second most populous suburb in the Redlands. Surrounding suburbs include Alexandra Hills, Birkdale, and Sheldon, also in Redland City, along with Burbank and Chandler (and formerly Capalaba West), which lie within Brisbane.\n\nTingalpa Creek marks the border between Capalaba in the east and the City of Brisbane in the west, making the suburb a gateway to the coastal Redlands region for urban Brisbanites.\n\nThe name of Capalaba is believed to be derived from the Indigenous Yugarabul word for the ringtail possum, a marsupial native to the area.\n\nEuropean settlement began in the 1850s, led by farmers, lumberjacks, and sawmill operators. The town became important in the overland trade link between the settlements of Brisbane and Cleveland. Crossings and bridges over Tingalpa Creek were established to facilitate such transport.\n\nThe town was originally officially known as Tingalpa, presumably taking its name from the creek, this caused confusion due to the existence of another area of the same name and so in 1927 the town's name was officially changed to Capalaba (a name in common use).\n\nThe town grew into the 20th century, becoming a major source of freshwater for the then Redland Shire in the 1960s, due to the construction of the Leslie Harrison Dam. This prompted and the introduction of commercial and industrial areas still present today. Continued population growth led to Capalaba ceasing to be a separate town and becoming a suburb within a larger conurbation.\n\nCapalaba West was a related suburb located on the opposite side of Tingalpa Creek, rendering it part of Brisbane rather than the Redlands. It retained the \"Capalaba\" name until 2010, when it became incorporated into the Brisbane suburb of Chandler.\n\nIn the 2016 census, the population of Capalaba was 17,333, an increase from 16,644 in the 2011 census, of whom 50.4% were female and 49.6% were male. The median age of the Capalaba population was 37 years old, 1 year below the national median of 37.\n\n74.4% of people living in Capalaba were born in Australia. The other top responses for country of birth were New Zealand (6.6%), England (4.4%), South Africa (1.0%), the Philippines (1.0%), and India (0.9%). 87.7% of people speak English as their first language; the next most common languages were Mandarin Chinese (0.6%), Hindi, Tagalog, Italian, and Greek (all 0.5%).\nMajor commercial and educational features of Capalaba include:\n\nThe Capalaba bus station connects the suburb to much of the Redlands and Eastern Brisbane. Services to Garden City bus station and the adjacent Upper Mount Gravatt busway station are operated by Mt Gravatt Bus Service, on behalf of TransLink. The suburb is also connected west to Carindale bus station and the Brisbane central business district, north to the Cleveland railway line, and east to Victoria Point bus station, through bus routes operated by Transdev Queensland on behalf of TransLink.\n\nTransLink's Eastern Busway is planned to extend from UQ Lakes to Capalaba, but currently only reaches Langlands Park busway station in Coorparoo.\n\nCapalaba is also the terminus for major roads crossing Tingalpa Creek from the City of Brisbane, including Old Cleveland Road and Mount Gravatt-Capalaba Road/Mount Cotton Road, both connecting directly to the Gateway Motorway.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819899", "title": "Thraso", "text": "Thraso\n\nThraso (Greek: ), latinized as Thrason, was an Indo-Greek king in Central and Western Punjab, unknown until the 1982 discovery of one of his coins by R. C. Senior in the Surana hoard. The coin is in a style similar to those of Menander I, has the same type of Athena, and shares one of Menander's mint marks. On the coin, the title of Thraso is \"Basileus Megas\" (\"Great King\"), a title which only Eucratides the Great had dared take before him and which is seemingly misplaced on the young boy Thraso, whose single preserved coin indicates a small and insignificant reign.\n\nOsmund Bopearachchi suggests a preliminary dating of 95–80 BC, but Senior himself concludes that Thraso was the son and heir of Menander (c. 155–130 BC), since his coin was not worn and was found in a hoard with only earlier coins.\n\nIt seems as though the child was briefly raised to the throne in the turmoil following the death of Menander, by a general who thought the grandiloquent title might strengthen his case.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819907", "title": "Wellington, South Australia", "text": "Wellington, South Australia\n\nWellington is a township in South Australia, Australia on the Murray River (River Murray in South Australia) just upstream of where it empties into Lake Alexandrina. Its postcode is 5259. Wellington is in the Rural City of Murray Bridge. At the , Wellington had a population of 295.\n\nBecause of its geographical similarities, the first European colonists likened the development potential of the site of Wellington to that of New Orleans. In 1839 the London-based Secondary Towns Association, represented in Adelaide by John Morphett and John Hill, authorised expenditure on the special survey a proposed town to be named Wellington, with prior consent of the Duke of Wellington himself.\n\nDespite never having seen the land except on a map, the directors of the Association had great hopes for Wellington becoming an important town. The survey eventually provided for 700 lots in Wellington (west side of the Murray) and 300 lots in Wellington East (east side of the Murray), as well as rural sections. Messrs Cannan and Henderson carried out the survey in November 1840 and the first lots were sold in July 1841.\n\nWellington was the original crossing of the River Murray for people, livestock, and goods travelling overland between Adelaide and Melbourne, until a bridge was built at Murray Bridge in 1879. There is still a free government ferry operating here. In 1852-53 much of the gold escorted by South Australian Police from the Victorian gold rushes crossed the Murray at Wellington. Even though the Murray has very little flow most of the time, and Lake Alexandrina is mostly only a few metres deep, the river at Wellington is about 25 metres deep. The surface is often less than one metre above sea level.\n\nOnce established, Wellington became a busy ferry crossing point for several decades during the 1840s to 1870s. Servicing the local pastoral district, it soon had a school, police station, and hotels, but it never prospered beyond township status.\n\nThe South Australian Government has stated its intention to build a weir at or near Wellington, despite opposition from environmental groups. Under the plan, no water would flow from the Murray into the lower lakes or Coorong during drought or other periods of low flow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819911", "title": "Luan River", "text": "Luan River\n\nThe Luan River (, formerly known as \"Lei Shui\", or \"Ru Shui\") is a river in China.\n\nThe river flows northwards from its source in the province of Hebei into the province of Inner Mongolia, and then flows southeast back into Hebei to its mouth on the Bohai Sea. The headstream is known as Shandian River. This part of the river flows near the ancient Mongol capital city of Shangdu. Another important settlement in this section is Duolun. From here, the river's course turns to the southeast. Its length is about 600 km. One subsidiary is the Yixun He, which runs through Hebei.\n\nDuring its course, the Luan also passes by the Great Wall. After Chengde, the river is navigable. The largest city along the river's course is Chengde.\nGeological evidence such as the presence of suevite suggests there is an impact crater in the area. It is estimated to be between 70–170 km in diameter with an age of 129 ± 3 Ma. The circular course of Luan River as it goes from Inner Mongolia back to Hebei is said to define part of the crater's outline.\n"}
{"id": "1819915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819915", "title": "Mukhed", "text": "Mukhed\n\nMukhed is and a municipal council in Nanded district in the Indian state of Maharashtra.\n\nThe historical name of this city was 'Mohanavati Nagar'. There is a fable about this name change. There was strong belief among native peoples that this city was \"enchanted\". Once any person visited this city, they would be enchanted, and, as result, not be able to easily leave. The name Mohanavati means bewitch. The current name of the city is Mukhed.\n\nMukhed has a temple dedicated to Veerbhadra, a son of Shiva. Veerbhadra is the Gram Daivat (town/village deity). Another temple is that of Shri Dashratheshwar, built in the 12th century during the reign of Vikramaditya Chalukya.\n\n India census, Mukhed had a population of 27,650.\n\nMukhed lies about 75 km from Nanded this expressway is via Narsi - Naigoan and kahala to banded city, travel to Mukhed from Nanded takes about 90 minute by public transport, and there is no train service.Nowadays one highway is going to be that is Mukhed - Kautha - Nanded National bypass express way.\n\nTotal population of Mukhed Taluka is more than 250,000 in 46,556 Houses, Spread across total 253 villages and 129 panchayats. While Mukhed town has population more than 27,000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819917", "title": "Theo Jansen", "text": "Theo Jansen\n\nTheodorus Gerardus Jozef \"Theo\" Jansen (; born 14 March 1948) is a Dutch artist. In 1990, he began building large mechanisms out of PVC that are able to move on their own and, collectively, are entitled, \"Strandbeest\". The kinetic sculptures appear to walk. His animated works are intended to be a fusion of art and engineering. He has said that \"The walls between art and engineering exist only in our minds.\" He strives to equip his creations with their own artificial intelligence so they may avoid obstacles such as the sea, by changing course when detected.\n\nJansen was born in Scheveningen in the Netherlands. He grew up with a talent for both physics and art, and studied physics at the Delft University of Technology. Jansen left the university in 1974 without a degree. While at Delft, Jansen was involved in many projects that involved both art and technology, including a paint machine and a flying-saucer machine.\n\nIn 1979 Jansen started using cheap PVC pipes to build a -wide flying saucer that was filled with helium. It was launched over Delft in 1980 on a day when the sky was hazy. Light and sound came from the saucer. Because the saucer was black against a light sky, its size was difficult to determine. The police even stated that it was 30 meters wide, and some people swore they saw a halo around it. Jansen has claimed that this project \"caused a near-riot\". He said that the machine was never found, and that it probably landed somewhere in Belgium. He later repeated the project over Paris.\n\nJansen's painting machine was developed in 1984–86 in Delft, and it was a somewhat larger project than his flying saucer. It consisted of a tube with a light cell situated at its end. When darkness was detected, the machine would begin to spray paint, creating painted silhouettes of people standing in front of it. This machine was also attached to a large piece of wood that was hoisted against a wall, where it would move back and forth to create 2-D images of everything in the room.\n\nSince 1990, Jansen has been creating \"strandbeesten\" (Dutch for \"beach beasts\", singular \"strandbeest\"), which are moving kinetic structures, sometimes wind-propelled, that resemble walking animals, described by Jansen as artificial life. All of his models are based on a system of triangles and connecting links which convert the rotation of an axle into a stepping motion of six or more legs. This allows the strandbeests to travel over sand much more efficiently than if traveling on wheels. What was at first a rudimentary \"breed\" has evolved slowly, with the help of evolutionary computation techniques, into a generation of kinetic sculptures that to some degree can react to their environment. Jansen has said \"I make skeletons that are able to walk on the wind. Over time, these skeletons have become increasingly better at surviving the elements such as storms and water and eventually I want to put these animals out in herds on the beaches, so they will live their own lives.\"\n\nConstructed from PVC piping, wood, fabric airfoils, and zip ties, Jansen's sculptures are constantly being improved and are designed to function in the sandy beach environment in which Jansen releases them. The sculptures are also able to store air pressure in order to propel themselves in the absence of wind. Jansen's more sophisticated creations are able to detect when they have entered water and are able to move away from it. One model is capable of anchoring itself to the earth if an approaching storm is sensed.\n\nA 2016 episode of \"The Simpsons\", \"The Nightmare After Krustmas\", featured the strandbeests and Jansen. He provided the voice for his cartoon character.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819920", "title": "Bardez", "text": "Bardez\n\nBardez (), also spelt as Bardes, is a region situated in the northern portion of the state of Goa, India. It is co-terminus with the eponymous \"taluka\" of the district of North Goa.\n\nThe name is credited to the Saraswat Brahmin immigrants who emigrated to the Konkan coast via Magadha plains in northern India. Bardez, or more properly \"Bara\" (twelve) \"desh\" (country), means 'twelve countries' (or territories). The form 'country' probably refers to clan territorial limits, or to the Brahmin \"comunidades\", of which the twelve are:\n\nBardez is delimited on the north by the Chapora River, on the south by the Mandovi River, on the east by the Mapusa River, which originates in Bardez itself near the capital city of Mapusa, and on the west by the Arabian Sea.\n\nA native of Bardez is called a \"Bardezcar\" () in the local Konkani language.\n\nBardez is the site of the legislature of Goa, in the southern parish village of Penha de França (Britona), in Serula. Other famous sites are the Fort Aguada, the beaches of Candolim, Sinquerim, Calangute, Baga, Anjuna, and Vagator villages, the hilltop monastery and boarding school of Monte Guirim, which was restored by Padre Luna after Pombal's devastation, the village communities of Salvador do Mundo, Penha da França, Siolim, Moira, Porvorim, Colvale, Saligao, and Sangolda, to name but the most prominent.\n\nGoa's Indian Institute of Hotel Management (IIHM) and Saint Xavier's College, Mapusa are located in Bardez.\n\nThe \"comunidade\" of Anjuna was famous as a hippie settlement. Among the Goan Catholics, it is famous as the birthplace of Venerable Father Agnelo, one of the two most prominent Goan saints, the other being Saint Joseph Vaz, the 'Apostle of Ceylon'.\n\nList of towns in Bardez taluk:\n\nList of villages in Bardez taluk:\n\nThe Indian Netflix original show, \"Typewriter\", is set in Bardez.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819925", "title": "Ouyang Tzu", "text": "Ouyang Tzu\n\nOuyang Tzu (; born 1939 in Japan) is the penname of Hong Zhihui (洪智惠, \"Hóng Zhìhuì\"), a female Taiwanese writer. She, along with fellow students of National Taiwan University Bai Xianyong, Wang Wenxing, and Chen Rouxi, created the literary magazine \"Modern Literature\" (\"Xiandai wenxue\") in 1960, under the guidance of Professor Hsia Tsi-an.\n\nOuyang Tzu's short stories are modernist in the sense that they employ novelistic techniques of literary modernism: stream of consciousness, multiple perspective narration, symbolism, probing of psychological depths instead of drawing social canvases. Such techniques flourished briefly in Taiwan during the 1960s and were in response to the socio-political \"Recover the Mainland\" trend of the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nOuyang Tzu's writing is experimental as well in terms of challenging social mores, especially concerning sex. Her stories are filled with violence, sexuality and abnormal psychology.\n\nIn terms of literary merit, her writing is easily digestible, soap-operatic, and melodramatic.\n\nOuyang Tzu is also a noted literary critic. She has produced a book-length study of \"Taipei People\" (see Pai Hsien-yung).\n\n"}
{"id": "1819931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819931", "title": "The Odd Angry Shot", "text": "The Odd Angry Shot\n\nThe Odd Angry Shot is an Australian 1979 war and action film with elements of comedy, which was written, directed and produced by Tom Jeffrey (with Sue Millikin). It is based on the book of the same title by William Nagel, and follows the experiences of Australian soldiers during the Vietnam War. The movie, which was shot on location in New South Wales and Canungra, Queensland, traces the tour of duty of an Australian Special Air Service Regiment reconnaissance team from their departure to their return home to Australia. It avoids much of the political comment on Australia’s involvement in Vietnam, unlike Hollywood films which tend to explore the rights and wrongs of the Vietnamese conflict.\n\nThe film focuses on the soldiers in their cantonments away from the battlefield, where they spend the bulk of their time playing cards, smoking, drinking beer, nursing their tinea, making jokes and messing about with American forces. The film also contains some small scale battle scenes. When the men return to Australia, they reflect on how both they and the general Australian society have changed. The film was sold to several countries including the US, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Norway and Greece.\n\nBill, a young new recruit in the Australian Special Air Service, arrives for his year-long tour of duty in Vietnam. Other members of his section include Harry, the section's Corporal and the oldest and most worldly-wise of the group, along with Bung, Rogers, Dawson and Scott. The close-knit group cope with their circumstances with a mixture of humour, cheek, practical jokes and copious quantities of beer. Harry has an ongoing verbal feud with the squadron cook over the questionable quality of the food. During the first weeks of their stay in Vietnam, their biggest enemies are mud, boredom, tinea and the never-ending torrential rains. However the real war strikes suddenly one night when an enemy mortar barrage hits their camp, causing a number of casualties. The section's first operation takes place shortly afterwards; a short sharp engagement in the dense jungle, which leaves Scott mortally wounded and one wounded Viet Cong who escapes. This encounter sets the tone for the remainder of their tour. Long, exhausting patrols which are periodically interrupted by short savage encounters with either the enemy, mines or booby-traps.\n\nBack at camp, the men resort to anything to pass the time and keep fear and grief at bay, including drunken brawls, a practical joke on the padre and an insect-fighting contest with an American unit that degenerates into a massive fist fight. Bill receives a thinly-disguised break-up letter from his girlfriend back home. Whilst on leave in Saigon, Bung catches a young scam artist who has just robbed a pair of US soldiers. They take the boy's stolen cash and team up with the Americans for a wild night with hookers, in which even Bill indulges.\n\nDuring a quiet spell at camp, Harry confides in his mates that prior to joining the army, he used to be a professional artist and had suffered a painful marriage break-up. He also grows increasingly cynical about both the conduct and purpose of the war and remarks bitterly about the lack of gratitude and interest they will receive upon returning home. Bung is devastated by news from Australia that his mother and girlfriend have perished in a car accident. Soon after Rogers steps on a mine whilst on patrol that blows off both his feet and destroys his jaw. Later his mates visit him in hospital before he is sent home. Rogers asks Harry to check if his testicles are still present (they are).\n\nShortly before their tour ends, a major offensive is launched and the section is sent into action to capture a VC-held bridge. Bung is killed by a VC machine-gunner as they take the bridge. The section is then ordered to withdraw, prompting Harry to comment bitterly that the whole morning's work had been for nothing. Not long afterwards, Harry, Bill and Dawson are informed they are being sent home. Back in Australia, Harry and Bill have a beer at a harbour side pub in Watsons Bay. The barman asks them if they have just returned from Vietnam but Harry replies 'No'. The two friends look out across Port Jackson quietly reflecting on their experiences as the film ends.\n\nFinance for the movie was raised through the Australian Film Commission and the New South Wales Film Corporation.\n\nShooting started in July 1978 and went for three weeks. The Australian Defence Force gave filmmakers their full co-operation including providing the Army's Land Warfare Centre at Canungra as the main location. For instance the Iroquois ('Huey') helicopters scene in the film were from 9 Squadron, RAAF. This unit and the helicopters had all served in combat during the Vietnam War.\n\nSome scenes of the movie was filmed at the Australian Army's Jungle Warfare Training Centre in Canungra, Queensland. Other scenes were filmed at Malarbar rifle range in Malabar, New South Wales. All Australian soldiers - including draftees - who were to be deployed to Vietnam went through four weeks' specialised training in Canungra.\n\n\"The Odd Angry Shot\" grossed $866,000 at the box office in Australia, which is equivalent to $4.25 million in 2018 dollars. Tom Jeffrey:\nWhen it came out, it wasn't well received by some reviewers because they felt we should have been critical of Australia's participation in the Vietnam War, that we didn't show much of the other side - we didn't show Vietnamese people being killed with napalm bombs and all that sort of stuff. Well, my answer to them at the time was that it wasn't that kind of film. Our intention was to show how the men survived in that environment.\nAccording to Jeffrey the film made a profit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819933", "title": "Lulonga River", "text": "Lulonga River\n\nThe Lulonga is a river in the Equateur province of Democratic Republic of the Congo. It is about 200 km long from its beginning at the town of Basankusu. There the Lopori and the Maringa join to form the Lulonga. The Lulonga river flows into the Congo River at the town Lulonga.\n"}
{"id": "1819944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819944", "title": "False cobra", "text": "False cobra\n\nThe false cobra (\"Malpolon moilensis\"), or hooded malpolon, is an opisthoglyphous snake found in parts of Africa and the Middle East. The name \"false cobra\" comes from the fact that while it is not a cobra, it imitates a cobra's stance by spreading its neck into a hood and hissing like the cobra. It can grow up to 1.5 metres in length and preys on rodents and lizards.\n\nAdults are usually 0.8 – 1.4 m in length, but some specimens have reached about 1.9 m. They have big round eyes, reddish in colour. One distinctive feature that the snake has is a black blotch which runs from the cheek to the angle of the jaw.\n\nIt generally has a straw coloured background checkered with brownish spots running along the body. The belly surface is usually creme.\n\n\"Malpolon moilensis\" is found in North Africa and the Middle East.\n\nWhen threatened, \"Malpolon moilensis\" will imitate a cobra's stance by spreading its neck into a hood and hissing like the cobra.\n\nIn the wild, it mainly feeds on rodents, fledgling birds, and lizards. Captives accept mice (pre-killed, frozen, and live).\n\n\"M. moilensis\" is not commonly found in collections in the United States, possibly due to the highly aggressive nature of some specimens. In the Middle East, they are rarely found in some petshops, as snakes aren't commonly kept as pets. Some specimens can be extremely docile and easy to handle, while others might not tolerate handling and display their above-mentioned defensive posture. The venom may not be deadly, but if the fangs do get hold of bare flesh and venom is injected, the pain can be excruciating; causing swelling and potentially other complications.\n\nIn captivity, \"M. moilensis\" should be kept at low humidity, and can be fed a mouse (pinkies for smaller specimens) once every 14–20 days. They should be supplied with a clean bowl of water, a hiding place, and a small rock to assist in the shedding process.\n\n\"M. moilensis\" will shed once every 30–50 days. Like other snakes, the process will take about 7–10 days. On the first two days, the eyes will become bluish in color and the skin will become pale. A week later, the snake will shed its skin. During the whole period, you should avoid handling the snake or feeding it.\n"}
{"id": "1819946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819946", "title": "National Research Council (Italy)", "text": "National Research Council (Italy)\n\nThe Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche (CNR) or National Research Council, is the largest research council in Italy. As a public organisation, its remit is to support scientific and technological research. Its headquarters are in Rome.\n\nThe institution was founded in 1923. The first president was Vito Volterra, succeeded by Guglielmo Marconi. The process of improvement of the national scientific research, through the use of specific laws, (see Law 59/1997), affects many research organizations, and amongst them is CNR, whose \"primary function is to carry on, through its own organs, advanced basic and applied research, both to develop and maintain its own scientific competitiveness, and to be ready to take part effectively in a timely manner in the strategic fields defined by the national planning system\".\n\nOn 23 December 1987, CNR registers the first Italian internet domain: cnr.it\n\nWith the issuing of the legislative decree of 30 January 1999, n. 19, which defines \"The reorganization of the National Research Council\" the central role of CNR in the Italian research system is confirmed.\n\nIn particular CNR is defined (see Article 1 of the above-mentioned decree 19/1999) as a \"national research organization, with general scientific competence and with scientific research institutes distributed across Italy, which carries out activities of primary interest for the promotion of science and the progress of the country\".\n\nCNR has the legal status of a public organization, and defines for itself autonomous rules and regulations, in accordance with the existing laws and the Civil Code.\n\nThe new CNR has the following mission and activities:\n\nFor the execution of these activities and any other activity related to them, CNR can stipulate agreements and contracts, establish or participate in consortia, foundations or societies with private or public parties, Italian or foreign.\n\nIn addition, through agreements or participation, CNR can implement programs, directives and regulations of the Regional governments or other Public Administrations, aimed to the dissemination of the research results in the economic system; it can also contribute to the realization of the conditions needed for the establishment of highly innovative enterprises.\n\nFinally, CNR can participate in international research centers, in collaboration with analogous scientific institutions of other Countries.\n\nCNR is organized in seven departments and 106 research institutes, listed below:\n\n\n\nThe \"research areas\" of CNR are regional centers aggregating institutions where some services are managed in a centralized manner. Conceived in 1979, the implementation phase set off in the mid-eighties with the creation of the first four areas of Montelibretti, Milan, Genoa and Potenza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819953", "title": "Udhampur", "text": "Udhampur\n\nUdhampur (ˌʊd̪ʱəmpur) is a city and a municipal committee in Udhampur District in the Indian Union territory of Jammu and Kashmir. Named after Raja Udham Singh, it serves as the district capital and the Northern Command headquarters of the Indian Army. A Forward Base Support Unit (FBSU) of the Indian Air Force is also stationed here. Udhampur is used by the Armed Forces as a transit point between Jammu and Srinagar when travelling by road on National Highway 1A.\n\nThe district of Udhampur is located in the Shivalik range of Himalayas and the terrain is mostly mountainous. The upper reaches of the district experience snowfall in the winter season. The city itself is in a relatively flatter part of the district at an elevation of 756 metres (2480 feet) and it rarely experiences any snowfall.\n\nThe Town of Udhampur is governed by Udhampur Municipal Committee with 22 municipal wards. Udhampur consists of four administrative districts: Udhampur, Ramnagar, Chenani and Majalta.\n\nThe city's climate is subtropical. Summer temperatures may exceed 40 degrees while temperatures below freezing have been recorded in winter. The annual rainfall is 130 cm, mainly in monsoons and winters. Central Udhampur rarely experiences snowfall, though its outer regions do occasionally. Due to changing climate patterns, heavier snowfall has been experienced in recent years. In 2011, there was about 15 cm snow. Heavy hailstorms with piles of hail can be experienced in February and March.\nAccording to the 2016 Indian census, Udhampur city has a population of 2 lakh+. Males constitute 60.2% of the population and females 39.8%. The large male percentage is due to the army constituting a large part of the city's population. Udhampur has an average literacy rate of 91.5%. \nThe dominant religion in the city is Hinduism.\n\nDistrict Udhampur extending over an area of 2,380 Sq. km comprises 357 Villages including 4 un-inhabited villages. It has a population of 557689 as per 2011 census. The district has recorded population growth rate of 20.86% during the decade 2001–2011. Population is mostly rural and only 20% of it reside in towns. Working force accounts for 44% of population. The main occupation engaging the working force are cultivation, construction, livestock, hunting, trade and commerce engaging 100% of the working force.\n\nTehsil wise population of Udhampur District is as under:\n\nUdhampur is located on National Highway NH-44, which is the only national highway that connects Srinagar to the rest of India. Bus services (both private and state owned) are the most common mode of public transportation to and from Udhampur. Frequent connections to the Kashmir Valley and Jammu are available. Taxi services are also available for going to Jammu and Srinagar and other nearby towns, and minibuses operate within the city.\n\nUdhampur is connected to Jammu which is the winter capital of state of Jammu and Kashmir in India. The Uttar Sampark Kranti Express train from New Delhi was the first train to run on this link in 2005. More than a dozen long-distance trains either originate from Udhampur railway terminus or connect Udhampur to the rest of India. Commuter unreserved passenger trains link Jammu and Udhampur.\n\nThe project to connect Udhampur to the Kashmir valley by railway track is progressing. The railway line has been laid to Katra. Now Katra to Banihal track remains to be laid to complete the Jammu–Baramulla line.\n\nThe Northern Railway Construction Organization (Jammu–Baramulla line) is working on connecting Udhampur and Srinagar.\n\nUdhampur Air Force Station of the Indian Air Force (IAF) is located in Udhampur but it is not open for civilians. Jammu Airport is the nearest civilian airport.\n\n\n16. Pingla Mata Shrine — Pingla Mata Cave is situated in Village Pinger of Ramnagar Tehsil in Udhampur District.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819956", "title": "Zeno of Sidon", "text": "Zeno of Sidon\n\nZeno of Sidon (; c. 150 – c. 75 BC) was an Epicurean philosopher from the Phoenician city of Sidon. His writings have not survived, but there are some epitomes of his lectures preserved among the writings of his pupil Philodemus.\n\nZeno was born in city of Sidon as confirmed by the Lebanese philosopher Said Akl, who proved that Zeno was born on the hills east to the modern city of Saida, in a district that is called Karm El Razzine in the village of Miye ou Miye. He was a contemporary of Cicero, who heard him when at Athens.\n\nHe was sometimes termed the \"leading Epicurean.\" () Cicero states that Zeno was contemptuous of other philosophers, and even called Socrates \"the Attic Buffoon (\"scurram Atticum\").\" He was a disciple of Apollodorus, and Cicero and Diogenes Laërtius both describe him as an accurate and polished thinker.\n\nZeno held that happiness is not merely dependent upon present enjoyment and prosperity, but also on a reasonable expectation of their continuance and appreciation.\n\nZeno's writings have not survived, but among the charred papyrus remains at the Villa of the Papyri at Herculaneum, there is an \"Epitome of Conduct and Character from the Lectures of Zeno\" written by his pupil Philodemus. It contains the essays \"On Frank Criticism\" and \"On Anger\".\n\nZeno also studied the philosophy of mathematics based on the derivation of all knowledge from experience. He criticized Euclid, seeking to show that deductions from the fundamental principles () of geometry cannot, on their own, be proved:\n"}
{"id": "1819957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819957", "title": "The Gods of Mars", "text": "The Gods of Mars\n\nThe Gods of Mars is a science fantasy novel by American writer Edgar Rice Burroughs and the second of Burroughs' Barsoom series. It features the characters of John Carter and Carter's wife Dejah Thoris. It was first published in \"The All-Story\" as a five-part serial in the issues for January–May 1913. It was later published as a complete novel by A. C. McClurg in September, 1918 and in many editions subsequently.\n\nAs usual for him, Burroughs begins with a frame story that explains how he (Burroughs) came into possession of the text. At the end of the first book, \"A Princess of Mars\", John Carter was unwillingly transported back to Earth. The story proper begins with his arrival back on Barsoom (Mars) after a ten-year separation with Dejah Thoris, their unborn child, and the Red Martian people of the nation of Helium, whom he has adopted as his own. Unfortunately, Carter materializes in the one place on Barsoom from which nobody is allowed to depart: the Valley Dor, which is the Barsoomian afterlife.\nAfter John Carter's arrival, a boat of Green Martians on the River Iss are ambushed by the previously unknown Plant Men. The lone survivor is his friend Tars Tarkas, the Jeddak of Thark, who has taken the pilgrimage to the Valley Dor to find Carter. Having saved their own lives, Carter and Tars Tarkas discover that the Therns, a white-skinned race of self-proclaimed gods, have for eons deceived the Barsoomians elsewhere with the lie that the pilgrimage to the Valley Dor is a journey to paradise. Most arrivals are killed by the beasts who dwell here, and the survivors enslaved or eaten by Therns.\n\nCarter and Tars Tarkas rescue Thuvia, a slave girl, and attempt to escape, capitalizes on the confusion caused by an attack by the Black Pirates of Barsoom upon the Therns. During the attack, Tars Tarkas and Thuvia hijack a Black Pirate flier, while Carter fights his way aboard another, killing all but one of the Pirates, and rescuing a captive Thern princess. From the captured Pirate Xodar, Carter learns that the Black Pirates, called the \"First Born\", also think of themselves as gods, and accordingly prey upon the Therns; and additionally identifies the captive Thern as Phaidor, daughter of the \"Holy Hekkador\" (high priest) of the Therns. When their flier is recaptured by the First Born and taken to their underground realm of Omean, Carter is taken before Issus, the self-proclaimed goddess of Barsoom, who dictates the Therns through secret communications which they mistake for divine revelation.\n\nIssus takes Phaidor as a handmaiden for one Martian year; whereas Carter is imprisoned, with Xodar as his slave as punishment for being defeated by Carter. Thereafter Carter treats him with honor, and thus gains his friendship. In prison, they encounter a young man later identified as Carter's son Carthoris, with whom Carter is taken to a series of games wherein the previous year's handmaidens are killed and later eaten by Issus and her nobles. Carter leads a revolt of the prisoners, killing many of the First Born; and upon the suppression of their revolt, he and Carthoris escape via tunnels, and give themselves to guards unacquainted with the revolt to be returned to their prison. Upon hearing of the revolt, Xodar rejects Issus’ divinity and joins the others in escape. Upon later abandoning their aircraft, they encounter Thuvia, who describes the capture of Tars Tarkas by the green warriors of Warhoon (a clan rival to his own). Carter goes to rescue Tars Tarkas, but is discovered by his enemies. After a chase, Thuvia is sent on alone, mounted, while the men attempt a stand against the Warhoons. They are rescued by the Heliumetic navy but do not find Thuvia. Commanding one of the warships is Carter’s friend Kantos Kan but the fleet is commanded by Zat Arras, a Jed (chieftain) of the hostile client state of Zodanga, and Carter is suspected of returning from the Valley of Dor, which is punishable by death. Tardos Mors, the Jeddak of Helium, and Mors Kajak, the Jed of Hastor (the grandfather and father, respectively, of Dejah Thoris, and thus Carter’s in-laws) are absent from Helium, having led fleets in search of Carthoris. Later, Carter discovers that Dejah Thoris may have taken the pilgrimage to the Valley Dor to find him.\n\nUpon returning to Helium, Carter is tried for heresy by the Zodangans; but the people of Helium do not tolerate this, and Carter is held prisoner for 365 days until his son frees him. Thereafter he goes to rescue Dejah Thoris but is kidnapped by the Zodangans. Carter refuses Zat Arras’ offer of freedom in exchange for endorsing Zat Arras as Jeddak of Helium, and is imprisoned. After half a (Barsoomian) year, Carter escapes, and embarks to Omean, with secretly raised troop levies, ships, and soldiers lent by Tars Tarkas. Near Omean Carter is challenged first by the Therns; secondly by Zat Arras; and lastly by the First Born, whereupon Carter causes the Therns and First Born to fight one another, and the Heliumetic crews of the Zodangan fleet mutiny in support of Carter. Thereafter the Heliumites and Tharks defeat the First Born, and Issus herself is killed. But Dejah Thoris, Thuvia, and Phaidor are imprisoned in the Temple of the Sun, each of whose rooms opens only once per year, by Issus, specifically to spite Carter, as Issus was aware that all three were in love with him. Carter and his men scramble to find the keys to their cell in time, but are unsuccessful. Immediately before their room closes, Phaidor attempts to kill Dejah Thoris, and her success or failure are left unknown. (The story is continued in the third book, Martian series, \"The Warlord of Mars\".)\n\nOn March 4, 1912, Burrough's editor at \"All-Story Magazine\", Newell Metcalf, wrote suggesting a sequel to \"Under the Moons of Mars\" (the original title of \"A Princess of Mars\"). The Valley of Dor, the River Iss and the Sea of Korus were all key locations in the Martian conception of heaven or the afterlife, which Burroughs had introduced in \"A Princess of Mars\". Metcalf, who thought the appeal of these mystical locations might be strong for readers of the previous tale, suggested that John Carter could arrive from Earth at this location and be instrumental in exposing and destroying this religion as a falsehood. These ideas, which may have already occurred to Burroughs, appeared to be highly inspirational.\nDuring 1912 Burroughs had been working on \"Tarzan of the Apes\", which he finished in June of that year. By 20 September 1912 Burroughs had almost completed the sequel to \"A Princess of Mars\", which was entitled \"The Gods of Mars\". It was submitted on October 2, 1912. Metcalf had suggested killing off Dejah Thoris in the story, but Burroughs admitted to be unable to do so. Although readers had already complained about the suspense created at the end of \"A Princess of Mars\", Burroughs once again, produced a story with a cliff hanger ending. The tale was advertised in the December 1912 issue of \"All-Story \"magazine.\n\n\"The Gods of Mars\" was serialized in five parts in All-Story magazine, the first part published in January 1913 and the final part published in May 1913. Burroughs was paid $750 for the novel.\n\nBurroughs introduced \"A Princess of Mars\", the first Barsoom Novel as though it were a factual account passed on to him personally. He imagines John Carter to be an avuncular figure known to his family for years who entrusted the manuscript of the novel to Burroughs for publication 21 years later. The Gods of Mars is the second Barsoom novel to use this device. John Carter 'visits' Burroughs 12 years after the events of \"A Princess of Mars\", claiming to have mastered the secret of inter-planetary travel and stating this will be the last time he makes such a journey from his adopted home. However, the device was used in two further Barsoom novels, \"The Chessmen of Mars\" and \"Swords of Mars\".\n\nWhile the novel is an example of science fiction, it is most closely related to the planetary romance genre. The genre is similar to sword and sorcery, but includes scientific aspects. Planetary romances mostly take place on the surface of an alien world, frequently include sword fighting, monsters, supernatural elements such as telepathic abilities (as opposed to magic), and civilizations similar to Earth in pre-technological eras, particularly with the inclusion of kingdoms, empires or religious societies. Spacecraft may appear, but are not central to the story (something which makes these tales distinct from Space Opera, where spaceships are usually a key focus of the narrative). There were some Planetary Romances prior to the publication of the Barsoom novels, but \"A Princess of Mars\" and \"The Gods of Mars\" and other novels in the Barsoom series were the most influential on the numerous similar stories that were published subsequently.\n\nBurroughs's vision of Mars was loosely inspired by astronomical speculation of the time, especially that of Percival Lowell, who saw the planet as a formerly Earthlike world now becoming less hospitable to life due to its advanced age, whose inhabitants had built canals to bring water from the polar caps to irrigate the remaining arable land. Lowell was influenced by Italian astronomer, Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli, who in 1878, had observed features on Mars he called canali (Italian for \"channels\"). Mistranslation of this into English as \"canals\" fuelled belief the planet was inhabited. The theory of an inhabited planet with flowing water was disproved by data provided by Russian and American probes such as the two Viking missions which found a dead, frozen world where water does not exist in a fluid state.\n\nThe Valley of Dor, with the ring of cliffs around it and Sea of Korus within it, is placed in a mile-deep crater at Mars' South Pole. However, Burroughs makes a mistake in that he has the sun rise in the east and set in the west as elsewhere in the planet, and the moons are visible from the Valley. In reality, at the South Pole, Mars' moons would not be seen, and the sun would not rise in the east and set in the west (all directions away from the Pole are \"north\" in any case), but instead ring the cliffs for half the Martian year, and leave the area shrouded in darkness for the other half of the Martian year. In addition, unlike what one would expect at the south pole of Mars, the temperature in the Valley of Dor is mild and temperate, and although that may be accounted for by its being in a deep crater, the temperature in the Therns' fortress on the surrounding cliffs does not appear to be all that cold either.\n\nA million years before the narrative commences, Mars was a lush world with oceans. As the oceans receded, and the atmosphere grew thin, the planet has devolved into a landscape of partial barbarism; living on an aging planet, with dwindling resources, the inhabitants of Barsoom have become hardened and warlike, fighting one another to survive. Barsoomians distribute scarce water supplies via a worldwide system of canals, controlled by quarreling city-states. The thinning Martian atmosphere is artificially replenished from an \"atmosphere plant\".\n\nRace is a major theme in the Barsoom novels. It is a world with clear territorial divisions between White, Yellow, Black, Red and Green skinned races. Each has particular traits and qualities, which seem to define the characters of almost every individual thereof. Nevertheless Burroughs' concept of race, as depicted in the novels, is more like a division between species than between ethnicity.\n\nThe first book, \"A Princess of Mars\", introduced the tall, gangly, four-armed, orc-like Green Martians and the more common humanoid Red Martians. John Carter spent his first ten years on Mars without knowing of the existence of the other races, aside from ancient paintings and frescoes that depicted White Martians.\n\n\"The Gods of Mars\" introduces two new races; the White-Skinned Therns and the Black-Skinned First Born, both of which are strongly connected to the Martian religion that John Carter exposed in the novel. Both are humanoid like the Reds, and indeed the Therns are close enough to whites on Earth that Carter was able to pose as one, and was easily mistaken for one.\n\nThe Therns are white skinned and bald, wearing blond wigs. They live in a well-fortified complex of gardens and temples in the cliffs above the Valley Dor, the supposed Martian heaven; the cliffs also contain a network of caves and passages. The Therns control the dangerous beasts that live in the valley, and ransack, enslave, or eat the flesh of the survivors. They consider themselves a unique creation, different from other Martians. They are themselves raided by the Black Martians.\n\nSupposedly the inhabitants of a Martian moon, the Black Martians actually live along the coast of both the Sea of Korus and the subterranean Sea of Omean near the south pole. (As such, they are apparently the only Martians who know how to swim.) They call themselves the 'First Born', believing themselves a unique creation among Martian races, and worship Issus, the false deity of the Martian religion. They raid the White Martian Therns carrying off girls as slaves, and have a massive aerial navy, which John Carter defeats. The girls serve as handmaidens for Black Martian women, and they may also be chosen by Issus to serve her for one year, after which they are always put to death. Like the Therns, the Black Martians also enslave some of the Red Martians who come down the Iss, but not the Greens, which they consider unworthy.\n\nThere are a number of incidents of religious deception, or the use of superstition by those in power to control and manipulate others, in the Barsoom series. This theme was introduced in \"A Princess of Mars\", but is central to \"The Gods of Mars\". Upon reaching 1,000 years of age almost all Martians undertake a pilgrimage along the River Iss expecting to find a valley of paradise; but find in fact a deathtrap, populated by ferocious creatures and overseen by a race of cruel, cannibal priests known as Therns, who perpetuate the Martian religion through a network of spies across the planet. John Carter's battle to track down the remnants of the Therns and their masters, continues in the sequel \"The Warlord of Mars\". More deceitful priests in a theocratic nation appear in The Master Mind of Mars, where they manipulate a temple idol to control followers.\n\nBurroughs continued this theme in his \"Tarzan\" novels. Burroughs was not anti-religious; but was concerned by the abuse and exploitation of religious belief, and saw this as a common feature of organized religion.\n\n\nMany consider the first three books of the Martian series to be a trilogy. The books are a showcase of Burroughs’ talents: imagination, colorful descriptions, and adventure. Burroughs’ complicated and sometimes flamboyant prose, vocabulary, and grammatical constructions are surprisingly sophisticated for pulp fiction.\n\nBefore the release of the 2012 film \"John Carter\", producers Jim Morris and Lindsey Collins said that they were working on a sequel based on the second book, with the working title \"John Carter: The Gods of Mars\". However, the film's poor box office performance put plans for sequels on hold.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819963", "title": "Zeno of Tarsus", "text": "Zeno of Tarsus\n\nZeno of Tarsus (, \"Zenon ho Tarseus\"; fl. 200 BC) was a Stoic philosopher and the son of Dioscorides.\n\nZeno was a pupil of Chrysippus, and when Chrysippus died c. 206 BC, he succeeded him to become the fourth scholarch of the Stoic school in Athens.\n\nAccording to Diogenes Laërtius, he wrote very few books, but left a great number of disciples. According to the testimony of Philodemus, Zeno rebutted the opinions of the Peripatetic philosopher Hieronymus of Rhodes in \"five books Against Hieronymus\" (Philodemus, \"Sto. hist.\", col. 48, fr. 18). \n\nLittle is known about Zeno's philosophical views. He was apparently an orthodox Stoic, but doubted the doctrine of the conflagration of the universe. This was a considerable modification of the physical theory of the Stoics, who held that the universe periodically dissolved into fire.\n\nIt is not known when he died. He was succeeded as head of the Stoic school by Diogenes of Babylon.\n"}
{"id": "1819966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819966", "title": "Larry Fleinhardt", "text": "Larry Fleinhardt\n\nLarry Fleinhardt, Ph.D., is a fictional character in the CBS crime drama \"Numb3rs\", played by Peter MacNicol. He is the best friend and colleague of Charlie Eppes.\n\nDr. Lawrence Fleinhardt holds the Walter T. Merrick Chair of Theoretical Physics at the California Institute of Science, CalSci (a university based on Caltech and located in Los Angeles in the \"Numb3rs\" universe). He is portrayed as a brilliant theoretical physicist and cosmologist, who researches supersymmetry, string theory, 11-dimensional supergravity theory, doubly special relativity, black holes, Ly-alpha emitters, the cosmic microwave background, and gravitational waves, using LIGO to check predictions on quantum corrections. He may have even found a way to express Calabi–Yau manifolds in a way that goes beyond a nonvanishing harmonic spinor and, independent of Charlie, published a work of genius entitled \"Zero Point Energy and Quantum Cosmology\", which could provide insight into the cosmological constant problem (episode 3x4,\"The Mole\").\n\nLarry Fleinhardt has always been fascinated with the stars. He had his first telescope at age three, was the president of the rocket club in the fifth grade, and worked as a docent at his local planetarium while in junior high school. Once a remarkable student comparable to Charlie, Larry graduated from college at the early age of 19. However, Fleinhardt had an addiction with card counting during his years as an undergraduate, which he feels ashamed about and has compared his discomfort during field research at a casino as being at the event horizon of a black hole; this was discussed in \"Double Down\", an episode that focused on a gambling ring. He wanted to prove the power of mathematics. Dr. Fleinhardt has been teaching for 20 years and Eppes attended his classes at Princeton University, first taking his quantum physics class at the age of 13. Charlie's father, Alan Eppes, said that all the family heard about that first year was Professor Fleinhardt. Dr. Fleinhardt has worked on building a space telescope for DARPA in the past, but it was weaponized against his wishes as part of the star wars missile defense project.\n\nThe only thing he remembers of his mother is her warm smile and tweezed eyebrows. He rarely has spoken of his father, a painter who wished his son had seen the world the way he did and was disappointed by his son's path; Fleinhardt expressed his sorrow with a memory he does not gladly inhabit, stating it is a father's folly to impose their will on their son. Consequently, Larry has an exhaustive knowledge of art and attempted a career as a painter, but failed as he was required by his father to study the great works of the masters before he could create an original work.\n\nLarry is quite awkward in social situations; his students have described him as \"boring and intellectually inaccessible.\" Some of his irregular views have made Charlie wonder, \"What flavor of crazy Kool-Aid do they make you drink before you join the physics department?\" When Larry suggested a neural imbalance may be the cause of his lack of dreaming in \"Hot Shot\", Charlie thought the notion would explain a lot about his friend. Usually, Larry seems relaxed, but, at times, he can be a bit neurotic, or \"Fleinhardt\". An absent-minded professor, he has forgotten whether he was entering or leaving the CalSci library (and subsequently returned to the library despite insistent reminders that he was \"exiting\" at the time). The \"Doc\" even had his own \"Eureka\" moment in \"All's Fair\", wherein he applied fluid mechanics to the analysis of footprint slabs he submerged in a jacuzzi only to determine, from the relative displacement of water by each indentation, that the suspect to a murder had a short right leg — a discovery that discounted a particular individual from guilt — and ran to the streets dripping wet in a robe, screaming that it was Archimedes all over again, only to forget where he put his clothes the next minute. Larry is disorganized like Charlie and claims that there is symmetry to his chaos. On a similar note, his antics have led him to eat purely white food at times to maintain supersymmetry, a focus in his research. Apparently, as mentioned in \"Backscatter\", Fleinhardt is awful when it comes to geography — he called to ask if the string theory convention he was already at was in St. Louis or Cleveland, when it was actually in Minneapolis. A perpetual preoccupation with celestial phenomena often has him spouting cosmic metaphors. His character is not unlike that of former acquaintance Richard Feynman, who is noted for being both a genius and an eccentric.\n\nLarry frequently wears casual patterned shirts and drove a 1944 Volvo until he acquired a black 1931 Ford Model A that he cherishes. Fleinhardt owned a personally restored 1877 Victorian home which he sold in \"Bones of Contention\". The character evinces a distaste for number theory and cell phones, but enjoys hiking. Also akin to Feynman, he percusses, but never for pleasure — he drums away problems. Both he and Charlie are members of the North American Sundial Society, and they have worked together on various contests for the physics department, including a paper airplane contest. Larry has a Zen rock garden and has constructed his own Heron's fountain. He likes to \"contemplate the koi pond\" in front of Charlie's home, with each fish named by Eppes.\n\nLarry constantly challenges Charlie to employ a broader point of view to his work with the FBI and often assists him with this work, as when his cosmic listening project helped him with his signal analysis. However, Professor Fleinhardt frequently expresses his wish that Eppes would continue with academia rather than consult with the FBI. Along with Alan, Fleinhardt provides words of wisdom to Charlie, reminding him that human behavior is unpredictable. He even comforts Don Eppes (Charlie's brother and FBI contact) about his love life with his perspective on quantum entanglement, yet Charlie has accused him of \"mixing cosmic metaphors\" after he inadvertently referred to his relationship with Amita Ramanujan as a black hole.\n\nAfter the \"untwinable\" event of having \"carnal\" relations with Laurel Wilson (\"Sabotage\"), a philosophy professor with whom he regularly took hikes, Larry begins to wonder about his life choices, missed (romantic) opportunities, and the impact of children (or wormholes in Larry's view) on people's lives. Larry has additionally noted how demanding physics can be on his social life (that is nigh-nonexistent as a result of his work) and, along with Charlie, understands Einstein's feelings that one can either do physics or have a family, but not both. Meanwhile, he has realized his affections for Megan, and describes to his confused friends, the Eppes family, that they are closer to understanding the mystery of gamma-ray bursts than his feelings in this matter. Thus, Larry begins a relationship with Agent Megan Reeves. When he finds out she is kidnapped in \"Two Daughters\", Larry's emotions overcome him. Megan claims to like him for his unpredictability. Larry shortly thereafter becomes distracted by his relationship with Megan, and desires more structure. Charlie has not seen such an emotional uncertainty with Larry as when he speaks of her and, as Larry has commented himself, his previously unstructured relationship with Megan made baryogenesis look neat. In \"Long Shot\" (episode 3x06) they create a schedule for dinner and a movie every other Friday, lunch on Wednesdays, and a monthly wild card that Megan can use at her discretion. Though, he has recently commented that his relationship with Megan has made him less concentrated on his work.\n\nAfter selling his home, Fleinhardt has for some time since been living as somewhat of a vagabond, finding shelter in his office, his car, hotels and friends' places, and often sleeping on couches or in CalSci's steam tunnels. Larry claims he didn't want to inconvenience Charlie and thought that sharing one bathroom would be problematic, and further did not want to move in with Megan and ruin something \"before it even began.\" He also claims to believe it allows him to focus on the sublime rather than the mundane, as well as gravity. Alan has commented on his state during one of their chess games, providing the same advice he has dispensed to all geniuses he knows: \"Don't be an idiot.\" Contrarily, Megan finds his situation oddly attractive. However, he \"rethought the pursuit of a purely intellectual endeavor.\" Wanting less complexity and more structure in his life, as well as time to be with Megan, Larry states that he has decided to buy a condo. However, life has never been simple for Larry, and Alan has said that simplicity may be impossible for him, so he must deal with structured complexity.\n\nIn the episode \"Brutus\", it is revealed that Larry's divestment of his personal property was in anticipation of being selected as a payload specialist on the International Space Station. His work on the cosmic microwave background has some relevance to the NSA's satellite signals technology and he was contacted by this agency last September to serve as an alternate for the recently detained Professor Johannes Igby, a rival physicist who created the now proven (though initially contested by Larry) Igby's Law to redefine the gravitational flux motivated by sound wave propagation in Bose–Einstein condensates and a candidate on the short list for the National Medal of Science award. Larry is distressed when he first hears of Igby's success from Charlie and sees the vindication in his \"Quarterly Review of Cosmology\" magazine, but soon recognizes, to his own excitement in a seemingly conflicting manner, that he is his replacement for the space mission, causing Charlie to believe he is in shock. Megan seems to be the only one who has some idea of this situation that explains his unorthodox living style and prior mystifying absences (to go to Houston), though his friends had thought that these elements were just part of Larry's quirks. Charlie is in disbelief over the matter and is distraught at the potential of a temporary loss of his friend, even worrying about Larry's safety as he boards the next shuttle to the International Space Station for a six-month stay 250 miles above Earth; even Larry is mindful of the risk involved in sitting atop 2 million liters of combusted liquid hydrogen and oxygen. He remands his few prized possessions, including a miniature model of his classic car, a stash of jazz recordings, a Newton Lacy Pierce Prize in Astronomy by the American Astronomical Society he received long ago, a Science Journal International diploma, and an old t-shirt he wore on the first day he posited causal solutions to ultrahyperbolic wave equations and, more memorably, when he vanquished Professor Muskrave at the CalSci Texas Hold'em Tournament, to his closest friend, Charlie. The reason he provides for not informing his friends of the big news is that he considered it a long shot and said it is only with the good fortune that Igby's new responsibilities have prevented him (Igby) from procuring his place on the shuttle, so that he may realize his dream of space exploration. On the other hand, Larry states he will miss Megan and she responds in kind by being supportive and intensifying their relationship before his departure. They even start sharing each other's predilections. In \"Killer Chat\", Larry's fulfillment of his dream is called into question as a rival in Massachusetts (at MIT) told NASA that he had been living in the steam tunnels. Larry himself says that he is a bird with his wings \"clipped\" and a \"steam tunnel freak\", and Megan says he is a \"star collapsing in on itself.\" When Charlie gets him back on the mission, stating to a NASA official that he is \"eccentric but brilliant\", Larry is grateful. Buzz Aldrin sees him off and Larry's friends watch his launch over a glass of milk due to Larry's propensity for white foods, with Charlie being particularly emotional.\n\nIn \"The Art of Reckoning\", Fleinhardt returns from the space station, landing at Edwards Air Force Base. He was away for four months and twelve days and lost six percent of his bone density due to microgravity effects. Millie states it is \"one small step for Fleinhardt and one giant leap for CalSci.\" While Charlie is ecstatic to see his friend and inquires about the awe in celestial phenomena and his LISA data, Larry is detached and not ready for complex social interactions such as a CalSci welcoming party, although he wants to have dinner with him. He finds the concept of a confined space intolerable and stays at the beach. Eppes is concerned and just wants his buddy back. Larry is deeply inspired by the \"fragility and beauty\" of Earth. He wears a self-made Inca \"quipu\", each knot representing certain accomplishments he made in space exploration throughout his life. He wants to live without obsessions such as white foods, focus more on life than the stars, and temporarily live in an Altadena, California monastery to make \"a transition into reentry.\" As seen in \"Trust Metric\", Larry enjoys his time of contemplation and lets his facial hair go, but still has time to dispense advice to Charlie, whether it be mathematical or about life, and even participate in a CalSci student tradition.\n\nThe only one with visitors at the monastery, Larry has been rejected by the monks and believes it is time to return from his inner reflections. He misses Megan. When he returns to his office he is ashamed and disgusted by the mess, and, hence, is getting rid of each item, albeit single-handedly for sentimental reasons. Dr. Fleinhardt asserts that he is only going to teach one seminar the whole academic term and is going to continue the search for the Higgs boson, the 'God Particle', with the DØ experiment team, as he received a \"tantalizing offer\" from them. Amita further points out that this is in line with his spiritual endeavor, after she says that he wants more from life than his recent habit of just walking in gardens, and he shares the same view. Larry reveals he still doesn't have a home when he suggests that Alan would be able to stay with him if he had a place.\n\nIn \"Tabu\", Larry and Megan have become closer again, as she has even asked him to come on the trip to New York to be with her father. He notes his wanderlust has stoked in him the desire to visit New York anyway. As custodian to Brother Theo's rabbit, however, he must speak with him first.\n\nHe and Amita spend at least twenty hours a week doing DØ research, though, in \"End Game\", Larry has a crisis of faith regarding his Higgs boson work, wondering if he is a hypocrite to be searching for something he may not want to find. Charlie points out to him the problem isn't that Larry wouldn't find the Higgs boson, but that he would and his feelings would be the same as his trip to the ISS. The question becomes moot in early 2009 when Larry's Higgs research is stopped due to problems at CERN. In \"When Worlds Collide\", it is revealed that Megan is leaving the FBI to go back east, to which Larry says that their relationship has never depended on geographic proximity.\n\nLarry and Amita stand in for Charlie with aiding Don until his security clearance is restored, once tricking Charlie into helping unknowingly. His insight into current moving across a conductor is even applied to a case. Larry argues with Alan about the direction of the think tank comprising both of them, Charlie, and Amita (\"Jacked\"). With Don, Larry advises Charlie to stay clear of the duplicitous Jane Karellen (Nancy Travis), head of DARPA special projects, due to his own experience with her (including romance), and they confront her (\"First Law\"). Alongside Charlie and Alan, he has been coaching the struggling CalSci basketball team with his physics calculations, but he is not above shouting and even getting NBA players to achieve a win (\"12:01 AM\").\n\nAt the end of season five, Charlie is attacked, and Amita is kidnapped. Don asks Larry to provide the math for the case. Larry agrees and involves Nikki and Liz in some field work. Larry even provides the clue that Amita's kidnappers have been whittling Burr puzzles.\n\nDespite Charlie's engagement to Amita, it is discovered Larry turns down an opportunity to meet with the greatest minds of the world in Geneva and drops his course load for the following semester, leading Charlie to realize Larry is once again leaving, and leaving all of his work to Charlie. His equations, spanning supersymmetry, string theory, supergravity, and cosmology and dating back from his days at Princeton, appear on the walls of CalSci's underground level with a Hindi mark saying सब बेटे के लिए (All for the Son) thereby passing them on to Charlie. He wants to be in the mountains, as opposed to being underground with a supercollider, which Don could appreciate. He is also certain the Higgs boson will be observed without him. Running is easy for him, as he doesn't have to determine his path, though he promises to let Charlie know where he is to receive the wedding invitation. Larry delays his leave, even helping Charlie with work, but soon leaves, ready to depart from Las Vegas. After buying tickets to visit one of several locations, they fly out of his car, and as he goes to retrieve them, he spots several acres of land for sale with a view of the stars that makes him pause. He has continuously contemplated how the universe must taste like raspberries, as astronomers have discovered the 'fruity molecule' ethyl formate in interstellar space.\n\nAt the end of \"Devil Girl\", Larry is seen hiking over a ridge toward Los Angeles a short time after Don passes the ridge on his motorcycle. He reveals himself in the following episode as he hides out in the Eppes garage. Larry has long unkempt hair and a beard, with Alan stating he has a \"Howard Hughes look.\" He stayed approximately 150 miles from Los Angeles in the Mojave Desert, having spoken only to coyotes. He has missed working on Don's cases, referring to \"the chase.\" Refreshed, Fleinhardt has a clarity of thought that excites Charlie and upsets the unconvinced Alan, as his equal in chess has now become like Garry Kasparov. Dr. Fleinhardt looked to the sky and saw the death of a star 2.2 million lightyears distant, realizing that he has always looked into the past at celestial corpses, and instead, looking ahead, he thinks he has discerned the future of the cosmos. He must now avail himself of the CalSci supercomputer to work on his coherent theory. Eventually, he cuts his hair and has his notebooks (that he worked on in the desert) sent to the Eppes home. Larry shows a phenomenal capacity for memorizing celestial matters and performing calculations therein, again delighting Charlie. In the sixth season finale, he serves as minister for Charlie's wedding, ordained specifically for the ceremony by the Universal Life Church, and discusses connections between the fundamental forces in the universe and Charlie's and Amita's love for each other. Larry will help renovate the Eppes garage for Alan while living there as Charlie and Amita take their visiting professorships at Cambridge University, and will further continue Charlie's FBI consulting with the aid of fellow physicist Otto Bahnoff.\n\nThe script called for Charlie to have a mentor at MIT. Peter MacNicol was cast as Larry Fleinhardt.\n\nIn episode 4x12, \"Power\" (air date 1-18-2008), Fleinhardt accepts an invitation to join Fermilab's Dzero collaboration, working to solve the mysteries of the universe and find the Theory of Everything. Co-writer Nick Falacci offered the following explanation for this plot development: \"Like real-life physicists, Fleinhardt hit a roadblock trying to create an 11-dimensional supergravity theory. The search for an answer takes Fleinhardt to his particle physics roots and a cutting-edge study of extra-dimensional gravitons and the Higgs boson -- DZero and its sister detector collaboration, CDF, are leaders of that search at the energy frontier.\"\n\nPeter MacNicol appeared in the first 11 episodes of season three before taking on his role on \"24\". According to creator and executive producer Cheryl Heuton, producers were uncertain as to the date of MacNicol's return, but, as of an interview with TVGuide.com's Michael Ausiello, they already developed a few story ideas to write Fleinhardt back into the script. Fleinhardt became a regular again shortly after MacNicol's return to the show.\n\nThe arc began with \"Brutus\" (air date 11-24-2006), with Fleinhardt leaving for the ISS at the end of episode 3x11, \"Killer Chat\" (air date 12-15-2006), and returning in \"The Art of Reckoning\" (air date 4-27-2007).\n\nEarly reception for Larry was positive. Larry was a favorite character for CBS executive Nina Tassler. Tim Goodman, of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", liked MacNicol's performance as Larry, calling him \"nutty\" and \"wonderful\". Toni Fitzgerald of \"Media Life Magazine\" stated that MacNicol, as Larry, \"brings a welcome eccentric flavor to \"Numb3rs\" that's missing from \"CSI\" and its ilk\". Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" called Larry \"the show's most original character\". Creator and executive producer Cheryl Heuton acknowledged in an interview with TVGuide.com's Michael Ausiello that Larry is a fan favorite.\n\nAt Larry's mention of DZero's research effort, real-life researchers with the project were pleasantly surprised. DZero members have taken a fondness to the show's reference to their research and have created an office for the fictional particle physicist in the assembly building.\n"}
{"id": "1819968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819968", "title": "Nuclear Threat Initiative", "text": "Nuclear Threat Initiative\n\nThe Nuclear Threat Initiative (NTI) is a nonpartisan, nonprofit organization founded in 2001 by former U.S. Senator Sam Nunn and philanthropist Ted Turner in the United States, which works to prevent catastrophic attacks and accidents with weapons of mass destruction and disruption – nuclear, biological, radiological, chemical, and cybersecurity.\n\nNTI has been engaged in developing, shaping, and implementing nuclear security projects. In addition to building global awareness, NTI engages in model programs to inspire private and governmental efforts toward nuclear, biological, and chemical threat reduction.\n\nThe Nuclear Threat Initiative serves as the Secretariat for the \"Nuclear Security Project\", in cooperation with the Hoover Institution. Former Secretary of State George P. Shultz, former Secretary of Defense William J. Perry, former Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger and former Senator Sam Nunn guide the project—an effort to galvanize global action to reduce urgent nuclear dangers and build support for reducing reliance on nuclear weapons, ultimately ending them as a threat to the world.\n\nIn 2002, NTI provided the additional $5 million of private money needed (combined with $3 million from the US government) to safely move 48 kg of highly enriched uranium (enough for two nuclear weapons) from the defunct Vinča nuclear reactor near Belgrade to a facility in the Russian Federation to be blended down for use as a conventional nuclear fuel.\n\nIn 2008, NTI helped create the World Institute for Nuclear Security (WINS), in Vienna, as part of its focus to secure nuclear materials worldwide. UN Security Council Resolution 1887 supported the WINS mission, calling for states to “share best practices with a view to improved safety standards and nuclear security practices and raise standards of nuclear security to reduce the risk of nuclear terrorism.” Today, the organization has more than 3,800 members from 118 countries. \"The Economist\" wrote, “WINS is a place where, for the first time, those with the practical responsibility for looking after nuclear materials—governments, power plant operators, laboratories, universities—can meet to swap ideas and develop best practices.”\n\nIn early 2018, NTI received a $6 million grant from the Open Philanthropy Project. The grant will be used to \"help strengthen its efforts to mitigate global biological threats that have increased as the world has become more interconnected.\" In January 2018 NTI announced that it had received $250,000 in support from the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation. That money will help advance NTI's efforts in developing a \"Global Health Security Index\". The index would analyze a country's biological programs and policies.\n\nThe organization produced the 2005 film, \"Last Best Chance\", which aired on HBO, and the 2010 documentary film \"Nuclear Tipping Point\": which President Obama screened at the White House in April 2010.\n\nNTI catalyzed the development of an international low-enriched uranium bank to back up the marketplace and prevent the proliferation of nuclear technology by ensuring that countries will have access to the fuel needed for peaceful purposes. NTI advisor Warren Buffett provided $50 million to jump-start the reserve, which will be owned and managed by the International Atomic Energy Agency and located in Kazakhstan.\n\nNTI produces a biennial \"Nuclear Security Index\" in partnership with the Economist Intelligence Unit. The \"NTI Index\" benchmarks nuclear security conditions across 176 countries and holds governments accountable for properly securing dangerous nuclear materials. According to NTI, The NTI Index, now in its 3rd edition, is the premiere resource for political leaders, government officials, experts, academics, and the news media worldwide on nuclear materials security.\n\nNTI has developed and released recommendations on securing and eliminating radiological sources used and stored at thousands of sites across more than 100 countries. These sources can be used by terrorists to build radiological “dirty bombs” that would incite mass panic, deny access, require extensive and expensive decontamination and have serious economic consequences. Many of these sources, which are used in industry and health-care settings, have minimal or no physical protection—and technological advances have made it possible to replace many of these sources with safer, effective alternatives.\n\nNTI has received international recognition for work to improve biosecurity, primarily through creating disease surveillance networks. Whether a biological threat is natural or intentional, disease surveillance is a key step in rapid detection and response. Because the response of a health system in one country could have a direct and immediate impact on a neighboring country, or even continent, NTI developed projects that foster cooperation among public health officials across political and geographic boundaries. In 2003, NTI created the Middle East Consortium for Infectious Disease Surveillance (MECIDS) with participation from Israel, Jordan, and the Palestinian Authority. Despite tensions in the region, MECIDS continues to share official health data and conduct infectious disease prevention training. NTI also created and nurtured Connecting Organizations for Disease Surveillance (CORDS), which in 2013 launched as independent NGO that links international disease surveillance networks, supported by the World Health Organization, and the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations.\n\nErnest J. Moniz has served as chief executive officer since June, 2017, and Joan Rohlfing serves as president. Co-chaired by Moniz, Nunn and Ted Turner, NTI is governed by an expert and influential Board of Directors with both current and emeritus members from the United States, Japan, India, Pakistan, China, Jordan, Sweden, France and the United Kingdom. They include:\n\n\nAdvisors to the Board of Directors include leading figures in science, business and international security. Advisors to the Board include:\n\nNTI's staff includes experts in international affairs, nonproliferation, security and military issues, public health, medicine and communications, who have operational experience in their areas of specialty.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819973", "title": "Jalan Kayu", "text": "Jalan Kayu\n\nJalan Kayu is a road situated in Sengkang, Singapore. It is located in the northwestern part of Fernvale, near the Seletar–Sengkang boundary.\n\nJalan Kayu was built in 1928 when the first Royal Air Force base outside the United Kingdom was established in Singapore, in the northern part of the island. It was initially known as Air Base Road, but its name was changed to the current name by the Royal Air Force in 1937. The reason for the name change was unknown, but it was proposed that it was named after their former chief engineer C.E.O Wood, as \"Kayu\" is Malay for wood.\n\nIn 1951, ownership of the road was turned over from the Air Ministry to the Singapore Rural Board, with the Royal Air Force providing 50 percent of the funds for making up the road.\n\nThe street itself is a relatively minor, two-lane road. However, it became prominent in Singapore for two reasons. Firstly, it was the main access route to the large British-built military compound in Seletar as well as the neighbouring Seletar Airport. Secondly, a range of road-side eateries selling \"roti prata\" gradually earned a reputation among the people of Singapore as arguably amongst the best in Singapore, and the road name became a household name for good food in a laid-back setting.\n\nA small section of Jalan Kayu between Yio Chu Kang Road and Sengkang West Avenue was closed on 13 October 2013, to make way for the development of the Seletar Aerospace Park, as well as for the construction of Sengkang West Road. The construction of Sengkang West Road was part of the road interchange for the Seletar Aerospace Park and future Sengkang Industrial Estate, as the existing Jalan Kayu could not support the traffic demands from the future developments.\n\nAnother short section of Jalan Kayu, between Seletar West Farmway 4 and Sengkang West Way was widened from a one-lane road to a two-lane road to further ease traffic congestion. New traffic signals were installed as well. On 14 May 2017, construction of an extension of Sengkang West Way to Sengkang West Road was completed, turning the 3-way junction of Jalan Kayu and Sengkang West Way to a four-way one, connecting Jalan Kayu and Sengkang West Road while connectivity between Sengkang West area and Tampines Expressway (TPE) was improved.\n\nThe southern portion of the road (after the junction with Sengkang West Way) is now home to new HDB housing estates of the Fernvale neighborhood. \nJalan Kayu is served by buses originating from Sengkang Bus Interchange, Compassvale Bus Interchange and from other parts of the island. The west loop of the Sengkang LRT line also serves the area, at Thanggam and Fernvale LRT stations.\n\nBus services calling at a pair of bus stops at the Jalan Kayu/Seletar Camp Gate Interchange, located at the northern end of the road, serves as a transfer point to other areas of the island.\n\n"}
{"id": "1819976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819976", "title": "The Warlord of Mars", "text": "The Warlord of Mars\n\nThe Warlord of Mars is a science fantasy novel by American writer Edgar Rice Burroughs, the third of his Barsoom series. Burroughs began writing it in June, 1913, going through five working titles; \"Yellow Men of Barsoom\", \"The Fighting Prince of Mars\", \"Across Savage Mars\", \"The Prince of Helium\", and \"The War Lord of Mars\".\n\nThe finished story was first published in \"All-Story Magazine\" as a four-part serial in the issues for December, 1913-March, 1914. It was later published as a complete novel by A. C. McClurg in September, 1919.\n\nThis novel continues where the previous one in the series, \"The Gods of Mars\" abruptly ended. At the end of the previous book, John Carter's wife, the princess Dejah Thoris, is imprisoned in the Temple of the Sun by the vile pretender goddess Issus. It is said one has to wait an entire Barsoomian year before the room the prisoner is in revolves back to the entrance.\n\nAfter the battle at the end of the previous book, which ended with the destruction of the religion of Issus, John Carter's wife and two other women were locked in a slowly rotating prison attached to the Temple of the Sun, each of whose hundreds of cells are only open to the outside world once every year. In the meantime, Carter's friend Xodar has become the new Jeddak (chief or king) of the black Martian First Born, and those white Martian therns who reject the old religion likewise gain a new unnamed leader, but there are still some who wish to keep the old discredited religion going, including the therns' erstwhile leader, the Holy Hekkador Matai Shang. John Carter discovers that a First Born named Thurid knows the secret of the Temple of the Sun and he and Matai Shang want to rescue the Holy Thern's daughter Phaidor, who has been imprisoned with Dejah Thoris and another Barsoomian princess, Thuvia of Ptarth, in the Temple jail for several hundred days. \n\nThurid, to spite Carter, gets Matai Shang to also take Dejah Thoris and Thuvia along with them. Carter follows them in the hope of liberating his beloved wife.\n\nHis antagonists flee to the north, taking the three women along. (This resolves the cliffhanger from the previous book, in which Phaidor attempts to stab Dejah Thoris; apparently, Thuvia successfully disarmed Phaidor, and nobody was killed.) In the equatorial Land of Kaol, on the opposite side of the planet from Helium, their jeddak Kulan Tith has not yet abandoned the old religion, and accepted Matai Shang's request for safe haven. Carter rescues the jeddak's forces from an ambush, and is admitted to Kaol, as a neighboring jeddak and good friend of his comes for a visit with his huge retinue. Matai Shang and Thurid unmask Carter's disguise and denounce his heresies, but the visiting jeddak, Thuvan Dihn of Ptarth, who is Thuvia's father, hotly defends Carter. Kulan Tith orders Matai Shang to deliver Dejah Thoris and Thuvia, but instead, he and Thurid take the women and flee to the north. After this treachery against his friend, Kulan Tith finally abjures the old religion and offers whatever help he can to Carter and Thuvan Dihn, but little can be done at this point.\n\nThereafter John Carter follows them untiringly into the north polar regions where he discovers more fantastic creatures and the nearly forgotten Yellow Martians, who live on the north polar cap behind a ring-shaped ice barrier. After traversing through the Carrion Caves which cross the barrier, Carter and Thuvan Dihn encounter Talu, the rebellious nephew of the tyrant Salensus Oll, who rules the yellow Martians' realm of Okar from the city of Kadabra. Talu provides Carter and Thuvan Dihn with advice and assistance, including disguising the two as yellow Martians. They infiltrate Salensus Oll's court, but Thurid and Matai Shang discover Carter, and have him thrown into a pit. Carter escapes thanks to help from one of Talu's moles in the court. Carter rescues Tardos Mors and Mors Kajak of Helium, triggering a rebellion among the Heliumite prisoners, which turns into a full-fledged invasion after Carter deactivates the yellow Martians' magnetic tower that wrecks invading fleets so Helium's fleet can land safely, carrying a volunteer force of Green Martians headed by Tars Tarkas as well. After a tremendous battle, Salensus Oll is killed, and Thurid and Matai Shang are forced to flee. In a dramatic scene, Carter follows them onto an airship, over a chasm. First, Matai Shang is tossed overboard by Thurid and killed, then after Thurid attempts to do the same to Carter, he is knifed and thrown overboard by Phaidor. Lastly, Phaidor announces to Carter that she repents of her jealousy, and recognizes the love that Carter and Dejah Thoris have for each other, and throws herself overboard in reparation for her sins before Carter can stop her.\n\nAfterwards, in a continuation of Zat Arrras' trial, Carter is instead proclaimed \"Warlord of Barsoom\" by his allies. This book is the last to feature Tars Tarkas, John Carter's ally, in any major role; indeed, the green Barsoomians of whom Tars Tarkas is an oligarch disappear altogether from most of the later novels.\n\n\nThe novel can be classed as a planetary romance, also known as \"Sword and planet\". This genre is a subset of science fiction, similar to sword and sorcery, but including scientific elements. Most of the action in a planetary romance is on the surface of an alien world, usually includes sword fighting, monsters, supernatural elements as telepathy rather than magic, and involves civilizations echoing those on Earth in pre-technological eras, particularly composed of kingdoms or theocratic nations. Spacecraft may appear, but are usually not central to the story.\n\nBurroughs' vision of Mars was loosely inspired by astronomical speculation of the time, especially that of Percival Lowell, who saw the planet as a formerly Earthlike world now becoming less hospitable to life due to its advanced age, whose inhabitants had built canals to bring water from the polar caps to irrigate the remaining arable land. Lowell was influenced by Italian astronomer, Giovanni Virginio Schiaparelli, who in 1878, had observed features on Mars he called canali (Italian for \"channels\"). Mistranslation of this into English as \"canals\" fueled belief the planet was inhabited. The theory of an inhabited planet with flowing water was disproved by data provided by Russian and American probes such as the two Viking missions which found a dead, frozen world where water could not exist in a fluid state.\n\nA million years before the narrative commences, Mars was a lush world with oceans. As the oceans receded, and the atmosphere grew thin, the planet has devolved into a landscape of partial barbarism; living on an aging planet, with dwindling resources, the inhabitants of Barsoom have become hardened and warlike, fighting one another to survive. Barsoomians distribute scarce water supplies via a worldwide system of canals, controlled by quarreling city-states. The thinning Martian atmosphere is artificially replenished from an \"atmosphere plant\".\n\nThe world of Barsoom is divided by the territory of Black, Green, Red, Yellow and White skinned races. Each has particular traits and qualities, which seem to define most individuals within them. This concept of race is more like a division between species than ethnicity. The Warlord of Mars introduces the Yellow Martians, supposedly extinct, whom John Carter finds in secret domed cities at the north pole. They are black-bearded, exceptionally cruel, and keep slaves, acquiring these by using a giant magnetic device which sends fliers off course, and allows the Yellow Martians to capture the occupants.\n\nThe copyright for this story has expired in the United States and, thus, now resides in the public domain there. The text is available via Project Gutenberg.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819979", "title": "Merlin Hay, 24th Earl of Erroll", "text": "Merlin Hay, 24th Earl of Erroll\n\nMerlin Sereld Victor Gilbert Hay, 24th Earl of Erroll (born 20 April 1948) is a crossbench member of the House of Lords, chief of the Scottish clan Hay, and hereditary Lord High Constable of Scotland.\n\nLord Erroll is the son of Diana Hay, 23rd Countess of Erroll and Sir Iain Moncreiffe of that Ilk. He was page to the Lord Lyon in 1956. He was educated at Eton College and at Trinity College, Cambridge.\n\nHe succeeded his mother, the countess, in 1978 as Earl of Erroll, and in 1985, his father as a Baronet. He is a member of the Council of the Hereditary Peerage Association. As Lord Erroll was Chief of Clan Hay by virtue of his mother's title, his younger brother Peregrine took over from their father as Chief of Clan Moncreiffe.\n\nHe married Isabelle Jacqueline Laline Astell Hohler (b. Brussels, 22 August 1955; died 13 January 2020), daughter of Major Thomas Sidney Hohler and heiress to the family of Astell, of Everton House, Bedfordshire, in 1982. The Countess was a patroness of the Royal Caledonian Ball and served as High Sheriff of Bedfordshire in 2015.\n\nThe couple has two sons and two daughters:\n\nThe Earl of Erroll has been a lieutenant at the Atholl Highlanders since 1974, and is a Member of the Royal Company of Archers. He served in the 21st SAS Artists Rifles (V) Territorial Army from 1975 to 1990, and was an Honorary Colonel of the Royal Military Police (Territorial Army) from 1992 to 1997.\n\nErroll has worked as a marketing and computer consultant, is a Freeman of the City of London and a Member of the Court of Assistants of the Worshipful Company of Fishmongers, of which he was Prime Warden in 2000–2001. He continues to head the club, Puffin's Club, founded by his father. He is also President of ERADAR the Chamber for Electronic Business, and Chairman of the Digital Policy Alliance (EURIM).\n\nHe is a director of Lasseo, a not-for-profit technical standardization and interoperability membership organisation for smartcard technologies.\n\nLord Erroll was one of 90 excepted hereditary peers elected to remain in the House of Lords following the House of Lords Act 1999. A programmer and system designer by trade he sits as a crossbencher and usually speaks on matters relating to cybersecurity and information technology. He was a member of the Science and Technology Committee and criticised Tony Blair's government for the failure to curb cyber crime after various government agencies, including the Ministry of Defence and HM Revenue and Customs, reported massive losses of data in 2008. Most recently he was a member of the Information Committee from 2007 to 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819983", "title": "Natural density", "text": "Natural density\n\nIn number theory, natural density (also referred to as asymptotic density or arithmetic density) is one method to measure how \"large\" a subset of the set of natural numbers is. It relies chiefly on the probability of encountering members of the desired subset when combing through the interval formula_1 as \"n \" grows large.\n\nIntuitively, it is thought that there are more positive integers than perfect squares, since every perfect square is already positive, and many other positive integers exist besides. However, the set of positive integers is not in fact larger than the set of perfect squares: both sets are infinite and countable and can therefore be put in one-to-one correspondence. Nevertheless if one goes through the natural numbers, the squares become increasingly scarce. The notion of natural density makes this intuition precise for many, but not all, subsets of the naturals (See Schnirelmann density, which is similar to natural density but defined for all subsets of formula_2).\n\nIf an integer is randomly selected from the interval [1, \"n\"], then the probability that it belongs to \"A\" is the ratio of the number of elements of \"A\" in [1, \"n\"] to the total number of elements in [1, \"n\"]. If this probability tends to some limit as \"n\" tends to infinity, then this limit is referred to as the asymptotic density of \"A\". This notion can be understood as a kind of probability of choosing a number from the set \"A\". Indeed, the asymptotic density (as well as some other types of densities) is studied in probabilistic number theory.\n\nA subset \"A\" of positive integers has natural density \"α\" if the proportion of elements of \"A\" among all natural numbers from 1 to \"n\" converges to \"α\" as \"n\" tends to infinity.\n\nMore explicitly, if one defines for any natural number \"n\" the counting function \"a\"(\"n\") as the number of elements of \"A\" less than or equal to \"n\", then the natural density of A being α exactly means that\n\nIt follows from the definition that if a set \"A\" has natural density \"α\" then 0 ≤ \"α\" ≤ 1.\n\nLet formula_3 be a subset of the set of natural numbers formula_4 For any formula_5 put formula_6 and formula_7.\n\nDefine the \"upper asymptotic density\" (also called the \"upper density\") formula_8 of formula_3 by\n\nwhere lim sup is the limit superior. formula_8 is also known simply as the upper density of formula_12\n\nSimilarly, formula_13, the \"lower asymptotic density\" (also called the \"lower density\") of formula_3, is defined by\n\nOne may say formula_3 has asymptotic density formula_17 if formula_18, in which case formula_17 is equal to this common value.\n\nThis definition can be restated in the following way:\n\nif the limit exists.\n\nIt can be proven that the definitions imply that the following also holds. If one were to write a subset of formula_2 as an increasing sequence\nthen\nand\nformula_25\nif the limit exists.\n\nA somewhat weaker notion of density is the \"upper Banach density\"; given a set formula_26, define formula_27 as\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOther density functions on subsets of the natural numbers may be defined analogously. For example, the \"logarithmic density\" of a set \"A\" is defined as the limit (if it exists)\n\nUpper and lower logarithmic densities are defined analogously as well.\n\nFor the set of multiples of an integer sequence, the Davenport–Erdős theorem states that the natural density and logarithmic density are equal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819985", "title": "William Worcester", "text": "William Worcester\n\nWilliam Worcester, also called William Botoner (1415) was an English topographer, antiquary and chronicler.\n\nHe was a son of another William of Worcester, a Bristol whittawer (worker in white leather), and his wife Elizabeth, Botoner. His mother was a daughter of Thomas Botoner from Coventry, and he sometimes used the surname Botoner.\n\nHe was educated at Oxford and became secretary to Sir John Fastolf. When Fastolf died in 1459, Worcester discovered that he had bequeathed him nothing, despite his being one of Fastolf's executors, and, with one of his colleagues Sir William Yelverton, Worcester disputed the validity of the will. However, an amicable arrangement was made and Worcester obtained some lands near Norwich and in Southwark. He died about 1482.\n\nWorcester made several journeys through England, and his notes (now known as his \"Itineraries\") contain much information. His survey of Bristol, which he appears to have devised as a self-contained work, is particularly detailed, and of great value to historians and antiquaries. Portions of his notes were printed by James Nasmith in 1778; and the description of Bristol was published by James Dallaway under the title \"William Wyrcestre Redivivus\" in 1823, and reprinted in his \"Antiquities of Bristowe\" in 1834. Modern scholarly editions and translations have been published as the \"Itineraries of William Worcestre\" in 1969, edited by John Harvey; and as \"The Topography of Medieval Bristol\" in 2000, edited by Frances Neale.\n\nWorcester also wrote \"Annales rerum Anglicarum\", a work of some value for the history of England under Henry VI. This was published by Thomas Hearne in 1728, and by Joseph Stevenson for the Rolls Series with his \"Letters and Papers illustrative of the Wars of the English in France during the Reign of Henry VI\" (1864). Stevenson also printed here collections of papers made by Worcester respecting the wars of the English in France and Normandy.\n\nWorcester's other writings include the last \"Acta domini Johannis Fastolf\". See the \"Paston Letters\" edited by James Gairdner (1904); and F. A. Gasquet, \"An Old English Bible and other Essays\" (1897).\n\n\nAttribution:\n"}
{"id": "1819990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819990", "title": "Johannes Brenz", "text": "Johannes Brenz\n\nJohann (Johannes) Brenz (24 June 1499 – 11 September 1570) was a German theologian and the Protestant Reformer of the Duchy of Württemberg.\n\nBrenz was born in the then Imperial City of Weil der Stadt, 20 miles west of Stuttgart. He received his education at Heidelberg, where, shortly after becoming magister and regent of the Realistenbursa in 1518, he delivered philological and philosophical lectures. He also lectured on the Gospel of Matthew, only to be prohibited on account of his popularity and his novel exegesis, especially as he had already been won over to the side of Luther, not only through his ninety-five theses, but still more by personal acquaintance with him at the disputation at Heidelberg in April 1518. In 1522 Brenz was threatened with a trial for heresy, but escaped through a call to the pastorate of Schwäbisch Hall. In the spring of 1524 he received a strong ally in his activity as a Reformer in Johann Isenmann, who became pastor of the parish-church at Hall. The feast of corpus Christi was the first to be discarded, and in 1524 the monastery of the Discalced Friars was transformed into a school. In the German Peasants' War, on the other hand, Brenz deprecated the abuse of evangelical liberty by the peasants, pleading for mercy to the conquered and warning the magistracy of their duties. At Christmas the Lord's Supper was administered in both kinds, and at Easter of the following year the first regulations were framed for the church and the school. Brenz himself prepared in 1528 a larger and a smaller catechism for the young, both characterized by simplicity, warmth, and a childlike spirit.\n\nHe first attained wider recognition, however, when he published his \"Syngramma Suevicum\" on 21 October 1525, attacking Œcolampadius, and finding the explanation of the creative power of the word of Christ in the theory that the body and blood of Christ are actually present in the Sacrament. Henceforth Brenz took part in all the important conferences on the religious situation. In October 1529 he attended the Colloquy of Marburg, and in the following year, at the request of the Margrave George of Brandenburg, he was present at the diet in Augsburg, where he seconded Melanchthon in his efforts to reach an agreement with the adherents of the ancient faith, but refused all association with the followers of Zwingli. In 1532 he collaborated in the church-regulations of Brandenburg and Nuremberg, and furthered the Reformation in the margravate of Brandenburg-Ansbach, Dinkelsbühl, and Heilbronn, while three years later Duke Ulrich of Württemberg called him as an adviser in the framing of regulations for the church, visitations, and marriage. In February 1537 he was at Schmalkald, and two months later undertook the difficult but successful task of the reformation of the University of Tübingen. He likewise attended the conference on the use of images held at Urach in September 1537, where he urged their abolition. Brenz returned to Hall in April the following year; in June 1540 attended the conference at Hagenau; was at Worms in the latter part of the same year; and in January 1546 was at Regensburg, where he was obliged to deal with Cochlæus, although, as he\nhad foreseen, he was unsuccessful. He devoted himself with great zeal to his pastoral duties, and side by side with his sermons was evolved a valuable series of expositions of Biblical writings.\n\nAfter the last remnants of the ancient regulations of the church of Hall had been abolished, his new rules appeared in 1543. Calls to Leipzig in 1542, to Tübingen in 1543, and to Strasbourg in 1548 were declined in favor of his position at Hall. Brenz had long opposed the adherence of Hall and the margrave to the Schmalkaldic League, since he regarded resistance to the temporal authorities as inadmissible. Gradually, however, his views changed, through the hostile attitude of the emperor. In 1538 Hall entered the League, and after its defeat Charles V came to the city (on 16 December 1546) and obtained possession of papers, letters, and sermons of Brenz, who, despite the bitter cold, was obliged to flee, although he returned on 4 January 1547. The new Augsburg Interim of the emperor, which Brenz called \"interitus\" (\"ruin\"), recalled him to the scene of action, and he earnestly opposed its adoption. The imperial chancellor, Antoine Perrenot de Granvelle, demanded his surrender, and Brenz, warned by a note reading: \"Flee, Brenz, quickly, more quickly, most quickly!\" escaped on the evening of his forty-ninth birthday, 24 June 1548. He hastened to Duke Ulrich, who concealed him in the castle of Hohenwittlingen near Urach, where, under the pseudonym of Joannes Witlingius, he prepared an exposition of Ps. xciii and cxxx. As the emperor was everywhere searching for him, Ulrich sent him by way of Strasbourg to Basel, where he was kindly received and found time to write an exposition of the prophecy of Isaiah. Duke Christopher called him to Montbéliard, where, in January 1549, Brenz was notified of the death of his wife. The condition of his children induced him to go to Swabia, but owing to the pursuit of the emperor, he was often in great danger, and the duke sheltered him in the castle of Hornberg near Gutach. There he spent eighteen months under the name of Huldrich Engster (Encaustius), always active for the welfare of the Church, both by his advice to the duke and his theological labors. He declined calls to Magdeburg, Königsberg, and England. In August 1549 he ventured to go to Urach, where his friend Isenmann was now minister, in order to take counsel with the duke, his advisers, and Matthaeus Alber, regarding the restoration of the evangelical divine service. In the autumn of 1550 he married his second wife Catherine, the oldest daughter of Isenmann.\n\nAfter Ulrich's death Brenz was asked to prepare the \"confessio Wirtembergica\" for the Council of Trent, and with three other Wittenberg theologians and Johann Marbach of Strasbourg, he went to Trent in March 1552 to defend his creed (see Jakob Beurlin). Great was the surprise of the fathers of the council, but they refused to be instructed by those who were to obey them. The Interim was abolished. Brenz who had thus far lived at Stuttgart, Tübingen, Ehningen, and Sindelfingen as counselor of the duke, was made provost of the Cathedral of Stuttgart on 24 September 1554 and appointed ducal counselor for life. He was now the right hand of duke Christoph in the reorganization of ecclesiastical and educational affairs in Württemberg. The great church order of 1553–59, containing also the\n\"confessio Wirtembergica\", in spite of its dogmatism, is distinguished by clearness, mildness, and consideration. In like manner, his \"Catechismus pia et utile explicatione illustratus\" (Frankfort, 1551) became a rich source of instruction for many generations and countries. The proposition made by Kaspar Leyser and Jakob Andreä, in 1554 to introduce a form of discipline after a Calvinistic model was opposed by Brenz, since he held that the minister should have charge of the preaching, the exhortation to\nrepentance, and dissuasion from the Lord's Supper, whereas excommunication belonged to the whole church. At the instance of the duke, Brenz moved in 1553 to Neuburg, to arrange the church affairs of the Palatinate.\n\nThe Osiandric controversy about the doctrine of justification, in 1551 and the following years, which caused a scandalous schism in Prussia, was a cause of much annoyance and defamation to Brenz, who saw in this controversy nothing but a war of words. In 1554–1555 the question of the Religious Peace of Augsburg occupied his mind; in 1556 the conference with Johannes a Lasco, in 1557 the Frankenthal conference with the Anabaptists and the Worms Colloquy; in 1558 the edict against Schwenckfeld and the Anabaptists, and the Frankfort Recess; in 1559 the plan for a synod of those who were related to the Augsburg Confession and the Stuttgart Synod, to protect Brenz's doctrine of the Lord's Supper against Calvinistic tendencies; in 1563 and 1569 the struggle against Calvinism in the Electorate of the Palatinate (Maulbronn Colloquy) and the crypto-Calvinistic controversies. The attack of the Dominican Peter a Soto upon the Württemberg Confession in his \"Assertio fidei\" (Cologne, 1562) led Brenz to reply with his \"Apologia confessionis\" (Frankfort, 1555). In 1558 he was engaged in a controversy with Bishop S. Hosius of Ermland. The development of the Reformation in the Palatinate led the aged man to a vehement renewal of his negotiation with Bullinger, with whom he had been forced into close relation through the Interim. The question concerned the doctrine of the Lord's Supper and also involved a peculiar development of Christology, which was opposed by the Lutheran theologians outside of Württemberg, since Brenz carried to its logical conclusion the concept of \"personal union,\" thus favoring an absolute omnipresence (ubiquity) of the body of Christ, which did not begin with the ascension but with the incarnation.\n\nBrenz took a lively interest in the Waldensians and the French Protestants. But all efforts in behalf of the latter, the journey of the Württemberg theologians to Paris to advise King Antony of Navarre in 1561 (see Jakob Beurlin), the meeting of the duke and Brenz with Cardinal Guise of Lorraine at Saverne, the correspondence and the sending of writings, all ended in bitter disappointment. The Protestants of Bavaria, who had to suffer under Albert, also had his full sympathy. To the citizens of Strasbourg Brenz expressed his doubts as to the advisability of following the procession with the monstrance and advised them not to attend Roman Catholic mass. He was also deeply interested in the Protestants in Austria, for whom the first Slavic books were then printed at Urach. His last Reformatory activity was the correspondence with Duke William of Jülich and Julius of Brunswick-Wolfenbüttel (1568–69). In addition to this he continued his exposition of the Psalms and other Biblical books, which he had commenced at Stuttgart. In 1569 he was paralyzed, and his strength was broken. He died in Stuttgart and was buried beneath the pulpit of the cathedral; but the Jesuits demolished his grave.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1819997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819997", "title": "Anders Bratholm", "text": "Anders Bratholm\n\nAnders Bratholm (7 January 1920 – 8 July 2010) was a Norwegian professor and legal scholar.\nBratholm was born in Kristiania (now Oslo), Norway. His parents were Johan Bernhard Bratholm (1893–1967) and Petra Marie Ratvik (1895–1971).\nHe took his doctorate degree in 1958.\nAfter graduation, he was a judge prior to becoming a fellow student at the University of Oslo. He was a professor of jurisprudence at the University of Oslo from 1960, a position he held until his retirement in 1990. His legal field was primarily criminal law which he taught at the university. \n\nHe published \"Pågripelse og varetektsfengsel\" (1957) and numerous other books. He was editor-in-chief of the newspaper \"Dagningen\" from 1945 until 1947, and of the journal \"Lov og Rett\" from 1962 until 1990. He was a member of the World Peace Foundation (\"Stiftelsen Fred\") 1986-92 and member of the Norwegian Helsinki Committee 1990–92. \n\nHe was a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters since 1963, and was decorated as a Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav.\nHe was awarded the Fritt Ord Award in 1986.\nHe resided at Hosle and died at Bærum in 2010.\n"}
{"id": "1819999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1819999", "title": "Alan Eppes", "text": "Alan Eppes\n\nAlan Eppes is a fictional character in the CBS crime drama \"Numb3rs\", played by Judd Hirsch. Alan is the father of the main characters, brothers Charlie and Don Eppes. First introduced in the pilot episode, the character of Alan received mixed reviews.\n\nAlan Eppes is the amiable and kind father of Charlie and Don Eppes, and is particularly protective of his younger son, Charlie. He is a widower and retired city planner, and in \"Waste Not\", Charlie refers to him as an engineer. He keeps busy by getting involved in the personal lives and careers of his sons as well as volunteering for causes he believes in. It makes him proud to see his competitive sons working together. He knows their best friends and colleagues, most of whom address him respectfully as \"Mr Eppes\". Also in Season 2, in episode \"Protest\", Eppes reveals that he was also an anti-war activist thirty five years ago, alongside Matthew \"Matt\" Stirling, the leader of the movement and accused in the ROTC center bombing. Don's superior in FBI also reveals Alan was a \"Leader\" Eppes, involved in anti-national activities, which Alan vehemently denies.\n\nAlan worries about his sons being able to settle down and have a family, especially given their problems in maintaining relationships with women for extended periods of time. Recently he had been on his first date since his wife's death, with a caterer he was fond of, and has once more taken up work, investing in a consulting firm with Stan Fisher, which is related to \"all his years in urban infrastructure.\"\n\nHe has been dating Dr. Mildred \"Millie\" Finch, Chair of the CalSci Physics, Mathematics, and Astronomy Division. When he is being sued by neighboring residents of a tennis court because of its disruptive lighting he designed, the relationship proves invaluable as Alan even overcomes the problem involving his new job venture with the aid of Millie, who helps Alan to discover that he is blameless. She also notes where Charlie gets his interest in numbers after overlooking Alan's engineering analysis of the lighting system (\"End of Watch\"). He later makes a bet with her whether they can go without consumer products.\n\nFor much of the first two seasons, his wife's name was never mentioned in the show, though she was referred to on the set as Margaret. He met Margaret when she was working for a tenants' rights organization and he was working for a housing developer. They had been married for thirty-five years and their marriage was a happy one, though they hid marital tension from their children. Alan held onto his wife's clothes, which he hid in the garage, despite Don helping him pack it six months before. When Charlie showed concern, he told him it was none of his business. Don confronted him as well, but both were criticized for giving advice as unmarried men and Mr. Eppes finally decided to get rid of the clothing on his own. After Charlie found a musical composition for the piano by his mother under her maiden name, Margaret Mann, in the Eppes garage, Alan revealed to his sons their mother's talent with classical music and her training in Vienna. He was astonished when his son noticed that some of her other compositions were dated after the birth of their children as he thought she had put her music work aside for her law career to help the family. Alan has seen his wife (JoBeth Williams) in a dream at the same time as Charlie.\n\nAlan volunteered his son's house for Valerie Eng's (a girl Don and Charlie both liked during high school) wedding, toiled over coordinating every detail, and assigned the seating arrangement to Charlie, who created a mathematical algorithm for it, though Charlie didn't overall seem too enthusiastic about it. He claimed that since he never had a daughter, this would be his chance to make amends.\n\nAlan has considered moving out of his son's house in order to live alone (something he has not done in forty years) and accomplish things on his own, but was rather hesitant to tell Charlie. He was shocked when his son seemed fine with it. Don tried to persuade him to take a place next to a tennis court, as his eldest son is fond of the game. Alan finally decided against moving, since he favors his sons' company over being alone. He wants a new staircase to his room. Moreover, he wants Charlie to be more responsible in maintaining the house and be able to have a family. After giving Charlie a hard time about his chores, he seemed to grasp Charlie's situation more fully after a comparison to Einstein's. More predicaments in his living arrangements are revealed when a break-in at his precious Craftsman home causes him grief (\"Pandora's Box\"). Initially he is agitated by Charlie's renovations to the home.\n\nLike Don, he enjoys baseball. He has attempted to persuade Charlie to take up golf like him, delighted that he can at least teach his brilliant son something. He sometimes works on puzzles to occupy his time when not busy, continuing his wife's hobby and allowing time for conversing with Charlie's colleagues, Larry Fleinhardt and Amita Ramanujan, over pizza. He also enjoys an occasional game of chess with Larry and was surprised at his friend for his love interest in Megan Reeves and his nomadic lifestyle. Before he was with his wife he was often a \"rail bird\" at the horse races.\n\nHis recent involvement in his sons' lives has been extended to aiding the FBI more frequently with his expertise in urban planning (\"Under Pressure\") and traffic engineering (\"Money for Nothing\"). Don at first was adverse to his father getting involved with his line of work, but Alan asked him to show more respect. He provides further help to Don with his knowledge of an elevator system in \"Chinese Box\".\n\nAlan is auditing a mechanical engineering class at CalSci for fun, but Charlie is disappointed that he could not interest him in advanced mathematics after all these years (\"Velocity\"). Alan being on campus has Charlie note the similarity of the situation to that of \"Back to School\". Being very busy, Charlie fails in helping to teach his father the engineering material, as all he does is solve the thermodynamic problem set from this class for him. Alan seems disappointed. Since then, Charlie has made notes to help him more later, and feels that this will make up for all the times missed with his father getting to help him with homework. On the other hand, Alan recalls all the dioramas he created with him.\n\nAt the beginning of season five, Alan encourages Charlie to fight for his clearance.\n\nAn old park that he and Margaret designed becomes scheduled to be torn down. Alan first begins to protest city hall's decision. After looking at the plans, Alan decides that the new park would be better. He later finds that CalSci has agreed to let him design a new mechanical engineering building.\n\nHe overhears a conversation between Don and Larry about Don going to temple. He later offers to help Don with the prayers.\n\nDavid and Colby turn to Alan to referee an argument about the JFK assassination. Alan tells them that he and a group of friends decided to look into it but could not reach a decision themselves.\n\nAlan forms a bond with his sons' girlfriends. First, Robin comes to the house to talk about her failing the victim after a jury fails to convict a murder suspect (\"Guilt Trip\"). Then, Amita tells him that she enjoys her times with Alan. They even briefly discuss whether Charlie would propose to her. Don entering the garage interrupts their conversation.\n\nTo satisfy a lab requirement, Alan looks for another lab class. Charlie and Larry agree to be his new lab bosses.\n\nAmita and Larry ask Alan about joining their think tank. Charlie and Alan both initially oppose the idea, especially since Alan thought that he had taught Charlie everything he knows when Charlie was seven. Alan eventually agrees to join the think tank and enthusiastically participates.\n\nWhen Don is stabbed, Alan goes and stays at the hospital. He sends Charlie back to work on the case, telling him that Don would want that. He comforts Robin and tells her about Don's birth. Later during one of Charlie's visits to see Don, Alan tells Charlie to set his priorities. Alan is present in Don's room when Don wakes up.\n\nAt the start of season six, while offering David a chance to vent any frustrations about his promotion, Alan hints at a change in his financial status. Later, he tells Charlie that he has lost money in his 401ks when his investment did not increase as promised by his investor. Charlie analyzes Alan's finances and realizes that Alan cannot use the remaining money to finance his retirement. He offers to help Alan financially, but Alan rebuffs. Don talks Alan into allowing Charlie's assistance. As a result, Alan decides to return to work and asks Charlie to teach him some new computer skills. He is hired by a design firm even without CAD capability. At the end of season six, Alan begins to search for apartments after Charlie and Amita's wedding. Charlie and Amita decide to convert the garage into a guesthouse so that he could live near them. He begins to design his new living space.\n\nSince the show featured brothers, Alan Eppes was created to discuss and show the brothers' family and their pasts. Len Cariou was originally cast as Alan. The believability of the family in terms of physical appearance and chemistry, however, created a need to recast the role. Judd Hirsch was cast as Alan in the second pilot.\n\nEarly reception of Alan varied according to the audience in question. Some people believed that venturing into the personal life of law enforcement was unrealistic. In an interview with IGN.com’s Travis Fickett, creator/executive producer Cheryl Heuton said that, during the first season of the show, she told people that law enforcement officials having a home life is more realistic than constantly working on the crime. CBS executive Nina Tassler, however, liked the brothers going home to Alan.\n\nCritically, the reception of Alan was mixed. Melanie McFarland, TV critic for the \"Seattle Post-Intelligencer\", stated that Alan was not an individual character. Tim Goodman of the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", however, said that Hirsch’s presence, although not having a large role in the pilot, “adds value”. Robert Bianco of \"USA Today\" stated that Alan was “a subdued, funnier version of his [Hirsch’s] meddling dad from \"Independence Day\"”.\n"}
{"id": "1820004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820004", "title": "Carl Sylvius Völkner", "text": "Carl Sylvius Völkner\n\nCarl Sylvius Völkner (–1865) was a German-born Protestant missionary in New Zealand who was hanged and decapitated at his church grounds on the east coast of the North Island in what became known as the Völkner Incident.\n\nVölkner was born in Kassel, Electorate of Hesse (now Germany) and was one of several missionaries sent to New Zealand by the North German Missionary Society after training at the missionary college at Hamburg.\n\nHe arrived in New Zealand in August 1849 and worked initially with fellow German Protestant missionary Johann Riemenschneider, in Taranaki. In 1852 he offered his services to the Church Missionary Society (CMS). For several years he worked as a lay teacher in lower Waikato.\nHe married Emma Lanfear, sister of a CMS missionary on 29th of June 1854. In 1857, he became a naturalised citizen. Völkner was ordained a deacon in 1860. In 1861, he became a priest and took charge of the CMS mission station at Ōpōtiki in August that year. There he worked among Te Whakatōhea, who built a church and a school for him.\n\nOn 19 May 1864 Völkner recorded that four of the 16 Christian teachers of the Ōpōtiki district had accompanied a Pai Mārire (Hauhau) campaign to Maketu, although not as active participants in the fighting. He went to Auckland during 1864 and again in January 1865. He was then warned by members of Te Whakatōhea not to return to Ōpōtiki.\n\nIgnoring the warning, Völkner returned to Ōpōtiki on 1 March 1865 and was apprehended by the Pai Mārire led by Patara, a chief, and Kereopa Te Rau, a Pai Mārire prophet. Völkner was hanged the following day from a willow tree near the church by his own Whakatōhea congregation. He was taken down and decapitated, and his eyes were gouged out and swallowed by Kereopa Te Rau. The Revd Thomas Grace, who was also in Ōpōtiki, was also taken by the Pai Mārire, although he was rescued.\n\nThe Anglican church in Ōpōtiki was reconsecrated as St Stephen the Martyr in memory of his death on 21 November 1875. His bible, chalice and paten are still held at the church. After pardon was later granted to those involved in Völkner’s death, the church was renamed again as Hiona St Stephen’s on 5 June 1994\n\nTe Paepae o Aotea, also known the Volkner Rocks, are named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820005", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820005", "title": "1962 Singaporean integration referendum", "text": "1962 Singaporean integration referendum\n\nA referendum on the terms of integration into the Federation of Malaysia was held in Singapore on 1 September 1962. The idea for a referendum to be held was championed by then-Prime Minister Lee Kuan Yew of the People's Action Party (PAP). Opposition parties, notably the Barisan Sosialis (BS), were not satisfied with the framing of the referendum, as it did not allow voters the choice of rejecting the merger altogether. Despite such dissatisfaction, the referendum was carried out with three options being offered to voters. Option A, which provided for the highest level of autonomy, was chosen by 96% of voters.\n\nThe first internal challenge to merger with the Federation of Malaya came from and grew out of a political struggle between the People's Action Party (PAP) and their opponents included the Barisan Sosialis (Socialist Front), the Liberal-Socialist Party, the Workers' Party, the United People's Party and the Partai Rakyat (People's Party).\n\nIn Singapore, the PAP sought formation of Malaysia on the basis of the strong mandate it obtained during the general elections of 1959 when PAP won 43 of the 51 seats. However, this mandate became questionable when dissension within the party led to a split. In July 1961, following a debate on a vote of confidence in the government, 13 PAP Assemblymen were expelled from the PAP for abstaining from voting. Subsequently, they formed a new political party, the Barisan Sosialis or \"the Barisan\", reducing the PAP's majority in the Legislative Assembly to 26 of the 51 seats.\n\nThe ruling PAP was not legally obliged to call for a referendum, but did so to secure the mandate of the people. However, the Barisan Sosialis, a left-wing socialist party consisting of former PAP members with communist sympathies pedigree to the opposition to the colonialism, and imperialism movements were alleged that the people did not support merger, but Lee Kuan Yew declared that people did.\n\nThe referendum did not have an option of objecting to the idea of merger because no one had \"legitimately\" raised the issue in the Legislative Assembly before then. However, the methods had been debatable. The referendum was therefore called to resolve the issue as an effort to decide objectively which option the people backed. The legitimacy of the referendum was often challenged by Singaporean left-wingers, due to the lack of an option to vote against the merger.\n\nThe Council of Joint Action (CJA) founded by 19 members of the Assembly to block the merger and scuttle the referendum by taking the issue before the UN Committee on Colonialism. On 6 July 1962, The CJA signed a memorandum condemning the referendum on the grounds that the proposed constitutional changes and to assure its continued right to bases in Singapore, and to protect its privileged economic position. The CJA also criticized the terms, and the lack of choice in the referendum. In the memorandum, The CJA concluded that the transfer of sovereignty would be contrary to the spirit and resolution of the United Nations General Assembly's Declaration on the Granting of Independence to Colonial Countries and Peoples.\n\nStrongly against the referendum, the Barisan Sosialis called for a boycott of the referendum, telling supporters to submit blank votes in protest of the \"rigged\" referendum. Over 144,000 blank votes were cast, over a quarter of all votes. That move had been anticipated by the ruling PAP government, as seen by the insertion of a clause that stated that all blank would be counted as a vote for the option that wins the most votes if there was no outright majority or that blank votes would be counted as Option A.\n\nThe mass media campaign fielded by both sides was extremely heated, many of the leaders on both sides broadcast radio shows in several languages.\n\nBacked by the official mandate, the Agreement relating to Malaysia between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, Federation of Malaya, North Borneo, Sarawak and Singapore was signed on 9 July 1963.\n\nSingapore entered into merger with Malaya on 16 September 1963, marking the birth of Malaysia. Singapore ceased to be a state of Malaysia on 9 August 1965 when it became an independent state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820012", "title": "Leonard Goldberg", "text": "Leonard Goldberg\n\nLeonard J. Goldberg (January 24, 1934 – December 4, 2019) was an American film and television producer. He had his own production company, Panda Productions (formerly Mandy Films). He served as head of programming for ABC, and was president of 20th Century Fox. Goldberg was also the executive producer of the CBS series \"Blue Bloods\".\n\nGoldberg was born on January 24, 1934 to a Jewish family, the son of Jean (née Smith) and William Goldberg. He was a graduate of New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn and the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania where he received a B.S. in economics in 1955.\n\nAs a producer, he was responsible for producing several television films, including the Peabody Award-winning \"Brian's Song\" (1971) and \"The Boy in the Plastic Bubble\" (1976); the latter helping to launch John Travolta's movie career. He also produced a string of hit television series while in partnership with Aaron Spelling; the best-known being \"Charlie's Angels\", \"Hart to Hart\", \"Starsky & Hutch\", \"Fantasy Island\" and \"Family\". He produced the Oscar-nominated movie \"WarGames\" (1983) as well as the comedy \"The Bad News Bears in Breaking Training\" (1977).\n\nHe also produced the Emmy Award-winning television film \"Something About Amelia\", which aired on ABC in 1984. It was one of the highest-rated television films of the year, watched by around 60–70 million people.\n\nGoldberg served as president of 20th Century Fox, during which time the studio produced such films as \"Broadcast News\", \"Big\", \"Die Hard\", \"Wall Street\" and \"Working Girl\". Under his own banner, Leonard Goldberg produced the successful motion picture features \"WarGames\", \"Sleeping with the Enemy\", \"Double Jeopardy\" and the \"Charlie's Angels\" films series. Most recently, he produced \"Unknown\", starring Liam Neeson, Diane Kruger, January Jones and Frank Langella, released in theaters in February 2011.\n\nHe has a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame at 6901 Hollywood Boulevard and was inducted into the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences Hall of Fame in 2007. He was a member of the Wilshire Boulevard Temple.\n\nGoldberg served on the CBS Board of Directors from 2007 to 2018.\n\nIn 1972, he married Wendy Howard. He had one daughter, Amanda Erin Goldberg and two stepsons, Richard Mirisch and John A. Mirisch.\n\nGoldberg died at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on December 4, 2019, as a result of injuries sustained in a fall. He was 85 years old.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820014", "title": "Samuel Woodward", "text": "Samuel Woodward\n\nSamuel Woodward (3 October 1790 – 14 January 1838), English geologist and antiquary, was born at Norwich.\n\nHe was for the most part self-educated. Apprenticed in 1804 to a manufacturer of camlets and bombazines, a taste for serious study was stimulated by his master, Alderman John Herring and by Joseph John Gurney. Becoming interested in geology and archaeology, he began to form the collection which after his death was purchased for the Norwich museum. In 1820 he obtained a clerkship in Gurney's (afterwards Barclay's) bank at Norwich, and Hudson Gurney and Dawson Turner (of Yarmouth), both fellows of the Royal Society, encouraged his scientific work.\n\nHe communicated to the \"Archaeologia\" articles on the round church towers of Norfolk, the Roman remains of the country, etc., and other papers on natural history and geology to the \"Mag. Nat. Hist.\" and \"Phil. Mag.\"\n\nHe was author of:\n\nHis eldest son, Bernard Bolingbroke Woodward (1816–1869), was librarian and keeper of the prints and drawings at Windsor Castle from 1860 until his death. The second son, Samuel Pickworth Woodward (1821–1865), became in 1845 professor of geology and natural history in the Royal Agricultural College, Cirencester, and in 1848 was appointed assistant in the department of geology and mineralogy in the British Museum. He was author of \"A Manual of the Mollusca\" (in three parts, 1851, 1853 and 1856).\nSamuel Woodward's youngest son, Henry was also a noted geologist.\n\nSee \"Memoir of S. Woodward\" (with bibliography) in \"Trans. Norfolk Nat. Soc.\" (1879), and of SP Woodward (with portrait and bibliography), Ibid. (1882), by HB Woodward.\n"}
{"id": "1820016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820016", "title": "John Bellenden", "text": "John Bellenden\n\nJohn Bellenden or Ballantyne ( 1533–1587?) of Moray (why Moray, a lowland family) was a Scottish writer of the 16th century.\n\nHe was born towards the close of the 15th century, and educated at St. Andrews and Paris.\nAt the request of James V he translated Hector Boece's \"Historia Gentis Scotorum\".\nThis translation, \"Croniklis of Scotland\" is a very free one, with a good deal of matter not in the original, so that it may be almost considered as a new work.\nIt was published in 1536 in Edinburgh by Thomas Davidson.\nIn 1533, Bellenden also translated the first five books of Livy's \"History of Rome\".\nThese remain the earliest existing specimena of Scottish literary prose, and remarkable specimena they are, for the execution of which he enjoyed the Royal favour, and was made Archdeacon of Moray. \nBoth the \"Croniklis\" and the \"Livy\" are prefaced by poems, the Proheme of the Chronicles, 'Quehen Silver Diane', being more often anthologised. Another work, the \"Banner of Piety\", was prefaced by the poem 'Quhen goldin Phebus.'\n\nBellenden latterly became involved in controversy which led to his being exiled to Rome, where he died, according to one account, about 1550. Another authority, however, states that he was still living in 1587.\n\nJohn was the son of Patrick Bellenden of Auchnoule or Auchnolyshill (died 1514) and Mariota Douglas. Mariota was the nurse of James V. John's sister Katherine Bellenden was a courtier, connected with the royal wardrobe and worked with Janet Douglas, who was the wife of David Lyndsay of the Mount, the diplomat, poet, and playwright. Katherine Bellenden was married to Adam Hopper, then Francis Bothwell, and thirdly to the royal favorite Oliver Sinclair. John's older brother Thomas Bellenden of Auchnoule was a prominent lawyer and courtier.\n\nAlan Balatine is a supposed historian mentioned by Edward Hall in the list of the English writers from whose works he compiled his \"Chronicle.\" The \"Oxford Dictionary of National Biography\" makes it clear that this person is very likely a misnomer for Bellenden, rather than a separate individual.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820019", "title": "Polyxenos Epiphanes Soter", "text": "Polyxenos Epiphanes Soter\n\nPolyxenos Epiphanes Soter (Greek: ; epithets mean respectively, \"the Illustrious\", \"the Saviour\") was an Indo-Greek king who ruled briefly in western Punjab or Gandhara.\n\nBopearachchi places Polyxenos c. 100 BCE and R. C. Senior c. 85–80 BCE.\n\nPolyxenos, whose portraits depict a diademed young man, struck silver coins which closely resemble those of Strato I. Both kings used the epithets Soter Epiphanes and the reverse of Athena Alkidemos (fighting Pallas Athene), the emblem of the dynasty of Menander I. Polyxenos also struck bronzes with Athena on the obverse and her aegis on the reverse. He issued no Attic silver.\n\nHis bronzes depict the head of Athena with a reverse of her aegis.\n\nPolyxenos' coins are few and feature only three monograms: these he shares with Straton I as well as the kings Heliokles II and Archebios, according to Bopearachchi and RC Senior.\n\nHe was therefore likely to have been a brief contestant for power in the central Indo-Greek kingdom after the presumably violent death of Straton I, who was possibly his father.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820022", "title": "Gerry Daly", "text": "Gerry Daly\n\nGerard Anthony Daly (born 30 April 1954) is an Irish former footballer who played in the Football League for Manchester United, Derby County, Coventry City, Leicester City, Birmingham City, Shrewsbury Town, Stoke City, Doncaster Rovers as well as the Republic of Ireland national team.\n\nDaly was born in Cabra, Dublin, and started his football career in Drumcondra with Stella Maris. His first senior club was Bohemians, for whom he scored in the UEFA Cup away to Köln in September 1972. In 1973, Manchester United manager Tommy Docherty paid Bohemians £20,000 for Daly's services. In Daly's first season at Old Trafford, the team was relegated to the Second Division after finishing 21st out of 22 teams. Despite this setback, Manchester United gained an instant return to the top flight with Daly being a key player. He continued his good form into the 1975–76 season, playing in 51 matches, including the 1976 FA Cup Final. Midway through the 1976–77 season, Daly was sold to Derby County for a fee of £175,000.\n\nDaly was soon reunited his old manager Docherty, who was appointed manager of the Rams in September 1977. Although they did not get on, Daly remained with Derby until 1980. Daly scored a famous penalty for Derby in 1977 against Manchester City where the penalty spot had to be re-painted during the game, due to the poor condition of the Baseball Ground pitch. During his time with Derby, Daly spent time on loan with the New England Tea Men of the North American Soccer League in 1978 and 1979. Following Derby's relegation in 1980, Daly signed for Coventry City, with whom he spent four seasons, including a spell on loan to Leicester City in 1982.\n\nHe then spent a season at Birmingham City before signing for Shrewsbury Town in October 1985. His experience helped the \"Shrews\" remain in the second tier finishing in 17th position in 1985–86 and 18th in 1986–87. This prompted Stoke City manager Mick Mills to sign Daly in March 1987. In 1987–88 Daly played 30 times for Stoke scoring three goals but fell out of favour in March 1988 and was released at the end of the season. He then moved on to Fourth Division Doncaster Rovers where he spent the 1988–89 season playing in 44 matches. He joined non-league Telford United in 1989 and later managed the club between 1990 and 1993.\n\nGerry Daly represented Ireland from 1973 till 1986, earning 48 caps.\n\nHe won his first caps playing friendlies against Poland, Norway and others.\nHe scored 13 international goals, making him one of the top scoring Irish midfielders. His first goal in 1976, was a penalty in a 1-1 all draw against England at Wembley. He scored another goal against England in the Euro qualifiers in 1978. He also scored against Denmark in the Euro qualifiers of 1980.\nAnother goal came in the World Cup Qualifier against the Netherlands in 1980 in a 2-1 victory.\n\nGerry Daly's last match for Ireland was against Uruguay in 1986 at Lansdowne Road in a friendly match and his last goal for Ireland was a penalty in this match to earn Ireland a 1-1 draw.\n\n\nSource:\n\nManchester United\n"}
{"id": "1820023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820023", "title": "Henry Woodward (geologist)", "text": "Henry Woodward (geologist)\n\nHenry Bolingbroke Woodward (24 November 1832 – 6 September 1921) was an English geologist and paleontologist known for his research on fossil crustaceans and other arthropods.\n\nWoodward was born Norwich, England on 24 November 1832 and was educated at Norwich School.\n\nHe became assistant in the geological department of the British Museum in 1858, and in 1880 keeper of that department. He became Fellow of the Royal Society in 1873, LL.D (St Andrews) in 1878, president of the Geological Society of London (1894–1896). He was awarded the Murchison Medal in 1884 and Wollaston Medal in 1906. Woodward was president of the Geologists' Association for the years 1873 and 1874, president of the Malacological Society in 1893–1895, president of the Museums Association for the year 1900, and president of the Palaeontographical Society from 1895 (upon the death of incumbent president T. H. Huxley) to his own death in 1921.\n\nHe published a \"Monograph of the British Fossil Crustacea, Order Merostomata\" (Palaeontograph. Soc. 1866-1878); \"A Monograph of Carboniferous Trilobites\" (Pal. Soc. 1883-1884), and many articles in scientific journals. He was editor of the \"Geological Magazine\" from its commencement in 1864 and sole editor from July 1865 until the end of 1918. Woodward's collection of shells, manuscripts and casts of fossil vertebrates can be found in the archives of the Cambridge University Museum of Zoology.\n\nHenry's father, Samuel Woodward, was a noted geologist and antiquary. Henry's brother Bernard Bolingbroke Woodward became a noted librarian and antiquary while his brother Samuel Pickworth Woodward became a professor of geology and natural history. His nephews were Bernard Barham Woodward, a British malacologist and a member of staff at the British Museum and the Natural History Museum and Horace Bolingbroke Woodward, who was Vice-president of the Geological Society and a Fellow of the Royal Society.\n\nHenry Woodward had two sons, both of whom died before he did; the eldest, Henry Page Woodward was also a noted geologist who worked in Australia. Henry's second son, Martin, was a student of T. H. Huxley alongside H. G. Wells He was a promising zoologist, but was lost at sea when the boat in which he was traveling capsized in Ballinakill harbour. Henry also had five daughters, two of whom - Alice B. Woodward and Gertrude Mary Woodward - worked in biological illustration, although Alice was primarily known for her children's book illustrations.\n"}
{"id": "1820024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820024", "title": "Maya (treasurer)", "text": "Maya (treasurer)\n\nMaya was an important figure during the reign of Pharaohs Tutankhamun, Ay and Horemheb of the eighteenth dynasty of Ancient Egypt. Maya's titles include: fan bearer on the King's right hand, overseer of the treasury, chief of the works in the necropolis, and leader of the festival of Amun in Karnak.\n\nMaya was the son of a magistrate named Iuy and his wife Weret. He had a half-brother named Nahuher who is shown officiating in his tomb in Saqqara. Maya was married to a woman named Meryt, and they had two daughters named Mayamenti and Tjauenmaya.\n\nThe early years of Maya's life and career are not well known. It is possible that Maya started his career during the reign of Amenhotep III. He may be the same person as a royal scribe named Maya who is attested in Malkata in year 34. He may also be the same person as a courtier named May known from a tomb in Amarna during the reign of Akhenaten. The May from Amarna shares some of the titles with Maya, but he was not a treasurer.\n\nMaya is well known from the reign of Tutankhamen however. As the Overseer of the treasuries, he was also an important official and was noted for restoring the burials of several earlier Pharaohs in the Royal Necropolis in the years following the deaths of Tutankhamun and Ay. It is possible that he personally left a hand written text in the tomb of Thutmose IV stating that he had been charged with the restoration of the burial of the king. Maya would have reported to the vizier of Lower Egypt, who was based in Memphis.\n\nMaya collected taxes and performed other services for these pharaohs, including supervising the preparation of their tombs.\n\nMaya contributed an Ushabti to the funerary furnishings for King Tutankhamen. He also presented the king with a figure of the King in the guise of the god Osiris. Both items were inscribed and recorded that Maya was the donor of the statues.\n\nMaya is known to have lived until at least year 8 of Horemheb when an inscription mentions he was charged with tax collection for the entire country and organizing offerings for the gods. He is also depicted in TT50, the tomb of a divine father of Amun named Neferhotep. Maya is depicted between King Horemheb and the viziers showing his close relation to the king.\n\nMaya's own tomb at Saqqara was initially partly excavated in 1843 by the archaeologist Karl Richard Lepsius, and its impressive reliefs were recorded in sketches and some of them brought to Berlin. Over time, however, the tomb was covered by sand, and its location was lost. In 1975, a joint expedition of archaeologists from the Egypt Exploration Society in London and the Rijksmuseum van Oudheden in Leiden, Netherlands began a quest to rediscover the tomb, and on 6 February 1986 they finally succeeded. On this date, Professor Geoffrey T. Martin together with Dr. Jacobus Van Dijk representing the Leiden museum discovered the burial chamber of Maya's subterranean tomb at Saqqara some 18 metres (60 feet) below the surface.\n\nAs Martin states: \n\nThe first full season's work on Maya's burial in early 1987 indicated that his tomb is \"a slightly smaller and abbreviated version of Horemheb's Saqqara tomb. An open courtyard has a collanade on its west side and doors leading to three vaulted ceilings. An inner courtyard has been found to contain reliefs of very fine quality and a statue of Maya and his wife.\" The underground burial chambers were paved with limestone and decorated with reliefs showing Maya and his wife in front of gods.\n\nThe statues of Maya and his wife Merit have been put on display in the National Museum of Antiquities in Leiden, Netherlands since 1823. Recently, the pair has been lent to The Archeological Civic Museum (MCA) of Bologna from 17 October 2015 to 17 July 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820025", "title": "John Brand (antiquarian)", "text": "John Brand (antiquarian)\n\nJohn Brand (19 August 1744 – 11 September 1806) was an English antiquarian and Church of England clergyman. He was author of \"Observations on Popular Antiquities: including the whole of Mr Bourne's “Antiquitates Vulgares,” with addenda to every chapter of that work.\"\n\nBorn in Washington, County Durham, he was educated at the Royal Grammar School and Lincoln College, Oxford. Initially apprenticed as a cordwainer, he obtained a degree from Lincoln College, Oxford, in 1775 and was appointed perpetual curate of Cramlington.\nBrand was appointed Secretary to the Society of Antiquaries of London in 1784 and was annually re-elected until his death.\n\nHe was buried in the nearby churchyard of St Mary-at-Hill. When this churchyard was cleared, his remains were moved to West Norwood Cemetery within the enclosure that the church acquired there in 1847.\n\nBrand wrote \"Observations on the popular antiquities of Great Britain: Including the Whole of Mr. Bourne's Antiquitates Vulgares\" (1777), generally referred to as \"Popular Antiquities\". (The incorporated work was the \"Popular Antiquities\" of Henry Bourne, published 1725, with Brand's own extensive annotations). Material from it was afterwards broadly incorporated into William Hone's \"Every Day Book\", \"Year Book\", etc., and in Chambers' \"Book of Days\", which had wide popular circulation. The \"Popular Antiquities\" were further revised and enlarged by Sir Henry Ellis. The expression \"popular antiquities\" was overtaken in the 19th century by \"folklore\". The book was again reworked as an alphabetical dictionary in \"Faiths and folklore ; a dictionary of national beliefs, superstitions and popular customs,\" (1905) by William Carew Hazlitt.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820027", "title": "Final protective fire", "text": "Final protective fire\n\nFinal protective fire refers to a tactical plan for a military unit, set up in support of the infantry, to protect itself against overwhelming attack. Final protective fire (\"FPF\") is a request for artillery support (a \"fire mission\") generally reserved for a unit being overrun, and has absolute priority over any other kind of request.\n\nA final protective fire is an immediately available preplanned barrier of direct and indirect fire designed to provide close protection to friendly positions and installations by impeding enemy movement into defensive areas.\n\nThe size of the FPF depends on the number and type of weapons firing (e.g., FPF size for one battery of 155 mm howitzers is 300 m × 50 m). The supported maneuver commander designates the location of the FPF and it is adjusted into place by the forward observer. Normally, the FPF is within 200 to 400 meters of friendly positions (known as \"danger close\") and is integrated into the final protective line of the maneuver unit.\n\nAs the \"final\" in the name implies, it is the last resort in defensive plans, involving artillery integrated with small arms and heavy machine gun fire directed dangerously close to friendly defensive positions that are at risk of being overrun by the enemy.\n\nFinal protective fire is also commonly incorporated into a defensive plan that incorporates a final protective line, which is a line that, once the enemy has crossed, prompts the FPF plan to be enacted.\n\nReference: ATP 3-09.30\n"}
{"id": "1820028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820028", "title": "Katia Ricciarelli", "text": "Katia Ricciarelli\n\nKatia Ricciarelli (; born 18 January, 1946) is an Italian soprano.\n\nBorn as Catiuscia Maria Stella Ricciarelli at Rovigo, Veneto, to a very poor family; she struggled during her younger years when she studied music.\n\nShe studied at the Benedetto Marcello Conservatory in Venice, won several vocal competitions in 1968, and made her professional debut as Mimì in \"La bohème\" in Mantua in 1969, followed by a 1970 appearance in \"Il trovatore\" in Parma. In the following year, she won RAI's \"Voci Verdiane\" award. Between 1972 and 1975, engagements followed in the major European and American opera houses, including Lyric Opera of Chicago (1972); Teatro alla Scala (1973); Royal Opera House, Covent Garden (1974); and the Metropolitan Opera in 1975. In 1981, she began a decade-long association with the Rossini Opera Festival in Pesaro, thus broadening her repertoire of Rossini's operas.\n\nBeside her many opera performances, she also appeared as Desdemona in Franco Zeffirelli's film version of Verdi's \"Otello\" in 1986, alongside Plácido Domingo. In 2005 she won the best actress prize Nastro d'Argento, awarded by the Italian film journalists, for her role in Pupi Avati's \"La seconda notte di nozze\".\n\nIn 1991 she founded \"Accademia Lirica di Katia Ricciarelli\", and, since 2003, she has been Artistic Director of the annual summer Macerata Opera Festival. In 2006 she participated in the reality show \"La fattoria\" (Italian version of \"The Farm\") on Canale 5.\n\nIn 1986 on her 40th birthday, she married Pippo Baudo, a television personality, and filed for divorce in the summer of 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820035", "title": "John Elliotson", "text": "John Elliotson\n\nJohn Elliotson (29 October 1791 – 29 July 1868), M.D. (Edinburgh, 1810), M.D.(Oxford, 1821), F.R.C.P.(London, 1822), F.R.S. (1829), professor of the principles and practice of medicine at University College London (1832), senior physician to University College Hospital (1834) — and, in concert with William Collins Engledue M.D., the co-editor of \"The Zoist\".\n\nElliotson was a prolific and influential author, a respected teacher, and renowned for his diagnostic skills as a clinician and, especially, his extremely strong prescriptions: \"his students said that one should let him diagnose but not treat the patient\".\n\nHe was always at the ‘leading edge’ of his profession: he was one of the first in Britain to use and promote the stethoscope, and one of the first to use acupuncture.\n\nThe son of the prosperous London chemist and apothecary John Elliotson and Elizabeth Elliotson, he was born in Southwark on 29 October 1791.\n\nHe was a private pupil of the rector of St Saviours, Southwark, and went on to study medicine at the University of Edinburgh, from 1805 to 1810 — where he was influenced by Thomas Brown, M.D. (1778–1820) — and then at Jesus College, Cambridge, from 1810 to 1821), from both of which institutions he took the degree of M.D., and subsequently in London at St Thomas' and Guy's hospitals. In 1831 he was elected professor of the principles and practice of physic in London University (now University College London), and in 1834 he became physician to University College Hospital.\n\nBarely 5 ft (152 cm) tall, with dark complexion and a very large head, he was also lame (following an 1828 carriage accident).\n\nHis appearance presented a strong contrast to his ‘intramural enemy’ Robert Liston (1794-1847), F.R.C.S. (Edinburgh, 1818), F.R.S. (1841), the University College’s Professor of Clinical Surgery, one of the fastest surgeons of all time (on one occasion Liston amputated a leg, mid-thigh, in 25 seconds), who was pale skinned, and at least 6 ft 2in (188 cm) tall. Liston was fiercely opposed to Elliotson’s ‘contamination’ of the hospital with his demonstrations of ‘higher states’ of mesmerism (i.e., rather than its ‘medical’ applications).\n\nDespite his unusual physical characteristics, Elliotson was greatly admired as a lecturer, both for the structured clarity of his lectures, and the theatrical liveliness of their delivery. Once he began lecturing at the University College, his widely respected lectures were extensively reported in the medical press; and he published a number of collections of his lectures over the years. At his peak, he was the first President of the Royal Medical and Chirurgical Society (in 1833), a fellow of the Royal College of Physicians and the Royal Society, he had one of the largest private practices in London and, at his peak, was one of the pre-eminent physicians in the entire British Empire.\n\nHe became interested in phrenology, and was founder and first President of the London Phrenological Society (in 1823). His interest in mesmerism had been aroused initially by the demonstrations conducted by Richard Chenevix in 1829, and re-awakened by Dupotet de Sennevoy’s demonstrations in 1837.\n\nThis prompted Elliotson to begin experimenting with the Okey sisters, Elizabeth (17) and Jane (15), who had been admitted to his hospital, in April 1837, for treatment of their epilepsy. Their surname was often given as O'Key and it was and is widely assumed they were Irish but in fact they came from an old English family (Okey comes from the oak tree). Elliotson soon began using them as subjects — in 1837 he inserted \"a large seton needle with a skein of silk into it\", entirely painlessly, and without her even being aware that such a penetration had taken place, into the neck of Elizabeth Okey (the older sister) whilst she was mesmerized — within the confines of the hospital, in public demonstrations of the so-called ‘higher states’ of mesmerism: clairvoyance, transposition of the senses (seeing with the fingers, etc.), thought transmission, physical rapport or \"community of sensation\", psychical rapport, etc. Convinced that the elder sister, Elizabeth, had a talent for medical clairvoyance (able to see into the body, diagnose illness, prescribe treatment, and deliver a prognosis), Elliotson took her down into the wards in the dead of night and had her both diagnose and prescribe treatments.\nIn August 1838, Thomas Wakley conducted a series of experiments on the sisters in front of several witnesses. His tests focussed on whether the girls could tell 'mesmerised' from 'unmesmerised' water. When they failed to do this consistently, he denounced them as frauds and proclaimed mesmerism a complete fallacy. In fact, the experiments did not prove the girls were faking nor did they show that mesmerism was false. By the end of 1838, however, Elliotson was forced to resign from the hospital. The Council of the University College, after months of deliberation, passed a resolution on 27 December 1838, \"\"That the Hospital Committee be instructed to take such steps as they shall deem most advisable, to prevent the practice of Mesmerism or Animal Magnetism within the Hospital\"\"; and Elliotson, on reading the contents of the resolution, resigned all of his appointments forthwith.\n\nWakley did all that he could, as editor of \"The Lancet\", and as an individual, to oppose Elliotson, and to place all of his endeavours and enterprises in the worst possible light; for example, in addition to an extensive range of articles in \"The Lancet\", over a number of years, there is also an anti-Elliotson (pseudonymous) work attributed to Wakley, \"Undeniable facts concerning the strange practices of Dr. Elliotson, ... with his female patients; and his medical experiments upon the bodies of ... E. & J. Okey, etc. (1842)\" which is held by the British Library, and another, most likely written by either Wakley or one of his associates, held in the collection of the Wellcome Library (see right).\n\nElliotson and William Collins Engledue were the co-editors of \"The Zoist: A Journal of Cerebral Physiology & Mesmerism, and Their Applications to Human Welfare\", an influential British journal, devoted to the promotion of the theories and practices (and the collection and dissemination of reports of the applications) of mesmerism and phrenology, and the enterprise of \"connecting and harmonizing practical science with little understood laws governing the mental structure of man\", that was published quarterly, without a break, for fifteen years: from March 1843 until January 1856.\n\n\"The Zoist\", was printed on high quality paper, and issued quarterly to its subscribers. It was also published for a wider readership in annual volumes. Well-written in crisp, scientific English, it was devoted to the propagation of information about the applications of phrenology (rather than its theories) and to the collection, storage, and dissemination of reports of the therapeutic efficacy of mesmerism (with even less treatment of mesmeric theories than of phrenological theories) — in part, it acted as a disciplinary clearing house for information and the experiences of both amateur and professional practitioners (and their subjects) from all over Great Britain, and its colonies — and it placed great stress on the well-demonstrated usefulness of mesmerism, not only in the alleviation of disease and suffering, but in the provision of pain-free surgery, especially amputations.\n\nIn 1846 — by this stage bereft of all his institutional affiliations — and despite many earnest efforts made to prevent him doing so, as the Royal College of Physicians' youngest fellow, Elliotson delivered the Harveian Oration to the Royal College of Physicians of London, in which he controversially spoke of how William Harvey, the man whom the Oration was honouring, had been forced to fight against the entrenched conservatism of the medical profession and its initial incredulity and resistance to his discoveries, and stressed the strength of the analogy with the current (equally misguided and ignorant) critics of mesmerism.\nElliotson continued to provide mesmeric demonstrations from his own residence at 37 Conduit Street, Hanover Square (which he eventually quit in 1865). In partnership with Engledue, he began publishing \"The Zoist\" in 1843, and, in 1849 founded the London Mesmeric Infirmary. As his reputation rapidly declined, his once lucrative practice also disappeared, and he died, penniless, in 1868 in the London home of a medical colleague, Edmond Sheppard Symes (1805-1881), L.S.A. (1830), M.R.C.S (England, 1832), M.D. (Aberdeen, 1851).\n\nHe was highly regarded in literary circles. WM Thackeray's \"Pendennis\" was dedicated to his friend, Elliotson; and the character, Dr Goodenough (in Thackeray's last novel, \"The Adventures of Philip (1862)\", was based on Elliotson, who had attended Thackeray when suffered a life-threatening illness in 1849.\n\nElliotson was a friend of Charles Dickens, and introduced Dickens to Mesmerism. Wilkie Collins, a close friend of Dickens described Elliotson as \"one of the greatest English physiologists,\" and cites an example of state-dependent memory from Elliotson's \"Human Physiology\" in \"The Moonstone.\"\n\n\nElliotson is a major antagonist in the game \",\" who performs brutal and fatal experiments on the insane at Lambeth Asylum and is a secret member of the Templar Order. He is later killed by the Master Assassin Jacob Frye.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820037", "title": "John Goodsir", "text": "John Goodsir\n\nDr John Goodsir (20 March 1814 – 6 March 1867) was a Scottish anatomist. He was a pioneer in the formulation of cell theory.\n\nGoodsir was born on 20 March 1814 in Anstruther, Fife, the son of Elizabeth Dunbar Taylor and Dr John Goodsir (1742-1848), a medical practitioner in the town. He was baptised on 17 April 1814. His younger brother Joseph Taylor Goodsir entered the ministry and became minister in Lower Largo, Fife. His brother Henry (\"Harry\") Goodsir perished on the Franklin expedition. Another brother, Robert, (b. 1824) qualiﬁed as a doctor and sailed twice to the Arctic searching for his brother Harry. His youngest brother, Archibald, (b. 1826) qualiﬁed as a Member of the Royal College of Surgeons of England.\n\nIn December 1826, aged 12 years, John Goodsir entered the University of St Andrews where his classes included classics and mathematics.\n\nThe following year he was apprenticed to the surgeon and dentist Robert Nasmyth, at 78 Great King Street in Edinburgh's New Town. This allowed him to enter the Edinburgh University Medical School and also attend classes at the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. His finished his apprenticeship with Nasmyth in 1833 and qualified as Licentiate of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (LRCSED) in 1835.\n\nHe then moved back to Anstruther to work in his father’s medical practice, which allowed him to resume his boyhood hobby of searching the local coastline along the Firth of Forth for all forms of wildlife. The specimens which he collected formed the basis of the collection he later developed as a museum conservator.\n\nIn Edinburgh Goodsir had befriended Edward Forbes, who would later become Regius Professor of Natural History at the University of Edinburgh, and George Day, later Chandos Professor of Anatomy and Medicine of the University of St Andrews. Together with Goodsir's brother Joseph they rented a flat at 21 Lothian Street close to the university, which became a meeting place for scientists, writers and artists, who together called themselves the \"Brotherhood of the Friends of Truth\".\n\nDuring his surgical and dental apprenticeship with Nasmyth Goodsir had started to collect human teeth. From studies of these he made the important observation that deciduous teeth were not the ‘parents’ of permanent teeth but developed independently. In 1839 he published a noted paper on this topic. The following year he gave a paper to the British Association for the Advancement of Science entitled ‘Dentition in the ruminants’, with some assistance from the University of Edinburgh Professor of Natural History, Robert Jameson. Jameson lent him an Ehrenberg microscope and encouraged him to develop microscopical studies from which Goodsir would later make major contributions to understanding of cell and tissue structure and function. Goodsir joined the Wernerian Natural History Society which had been founded by Jameson.\n\nAmong his teachers at Edinburgh it was the anatomist Robert Knox who made the greatest impression. Knox broadened Goodsir's idea of the importance of comparative anatomy in the scheme of life and in the medical curriculum. Knox appreciated his pupil's skill and gave him normal and pathological specimens to mount and preserve. The two kept in touch with each other for many years.\n\nOn 21 April 1841 he was appointed Conservator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh in succession to William McGillivray, who had been appointed Professor of Natural History at Marischal College, Aberdeen. Goodsir promoted the museum collections by giving public lectures featuring its specimens. and by giving lectures to medical students. His lectures on pathology in 1841-42 presented his innovative ideas on cell theory which were read and later developed by the German pathologist Rudolf Virchow. He gave the first description of the stomach parasite \"sarcina ventriculi\" which demonstrated his status as a shrewd observer and innovative thinker.\n\nTwo years later, he was appointed curator of the University of Edinburgh natural history collection and he was succeeded as RCSEd Museum Conservator by his brother Harry Goodsir who continued in this post until 1845. In May 1844, Goodsir was appointed Anatomy Demonstrator under Professor Alexander Monro and his lectures attracted large numbers of students and did much to restore the University of Edinburgh's reputation for anatomical teaching which had suffered under Monro.\n\nThe following year he published, jointly with his brother Harry, \"Anatomical and Pathological Observations\" based on his earlier lectures at the RCSEd. This book brought international recognition for his ideas on cell structure and function. The \"Anatomical Memoirs\" also contain a biography by Henry Lonsdale. Goodsir also improved the quality of the instruction in the anatomy department by extending and improving the dissecting rooms, recruiting additional staff, and giving microscopic demonstrations. Goodsir's microscopists were among the first to use the achromatic microscope.\n\nOn the basis of his studies using the compound microscope Goodsir developed his theory about the nature and structure of cellular life and organisation.\n\nHe concluded that all living organisms are formed of microscopic units, cells. Goodsir was not alone in postulating such a concept and the theory that cells form the basic structure of tissues in all plants and animals has been attributed to Matthius Schleiden and to Theodor Schwann. Goodsir posed and then answered the questions ‘What is a cell with its walls, contents, nucleus and nucleolus? How is a cell formed? How do cells multiply?’ The theory which he developed from these studies was original and won the extravagant praise of Rudolf Virchow (1821–1902), who dedicated his masterpiece \"Cellular Pathology\" to Goodsir, describing him as \"one of the earliest and most acute observers of cell-life both physiological and pathological.\" In 1842 Goodsir was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society of Edinburgh his proposer being Prof James Syme. He was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1846.\n\nWhen Alexander Monro \"tertius\" retired in 1846, Goodsir was appointed Professor of Anatomy at the University of Edinburgh. In 1848 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (FRCSEd), applied for the position of Assistant Surgeon to the Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, but was not appointed. He moved into Edward Forbes’ South Cottage at Wardie in north Edinburgh where he spent the last ten years of his life. Such was the improvement that he brought about in anatomy teaching that by 1860–1861 the size of the anatomy class had grown to 354.\n\nFrom 1850 Goodsir became unwell, showing the features of the chronic wasting illness which would eventually prove fatal. It made slow and insidious progress and assumed the characters of locomotor ataxia. Yet despite this, after the death of his friend Edward Forbes in 1854, he took on Forbes's lectures in addition to his own. In 1863, he was invited to assist Professor Sir David Brewster with an article for the North British Review on Faivre’s analysis of Goethe’s studies. Brewster, a distinguished physicist and mathematician and now Principal of the University of Edinburgh, had known Goodsir from 1839 when both were members of the Literary and Philosophical Society of St Andrews.\n\nGoodsir died at South Cottage, Wardie, Edinburgh on 6 March 1867, aged 52 years and is buried alongside one of the central paths in Dean Cemetery, Edinburgh next to his friend Edward Forbes the naturalist.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820041", "title": "Peter Davenport", "text": "Peter Davenport\n\nPeter Davenport (born 24 March 1961) is an English former professional footballer and manager who has managed teams in both the Welsh and English leagues. Born in Birkenhead, Cheshire, he won one full cap for England, against the Republic of Ireland in 1985. Most recently, he was assistant manager at Bradford Park Avenue.\n\nDavenport was born in Birkenhead and was spotted by scouts from Nottingham Forest while playing for Cammell Laird in the West Cheshire league. Forest offered Cammell Laird a brand new football kit if they could sign Davenport, to which they reluctantly agreed. In the 1983–84 and 1984–85 seasons, Davenport was Forest's leading goalscorer. Davenport also played in the UEFA Cup semi-final clash with Anderlecht in 1984, which Forest lost 3–2 on aggregate.\n\nWhile a Forest player, Davenport was capped for the England national football team on the one occasion at senior level, in a 2–1 friendly win over the Republic of Ireland on 26 March 1985.\n\nDavenport completed a transfer to Manchester United on 12 March 1986 for a fee of £750,000. By this stage of the season, United were falling behind Everton and Liverpool in the league title race which they had looked so certain to win after a 10-match winning start to the season. A hectic fixture schedule followed, with 10 games being played between Davenport's arrival on 12 March leading up to his first goal in a 4–0 win over Leicester City on 26 April. By then, however, the impressive win was too late to revive United's title challenge as it had become a three-horse race between Everton, Liverpool and West Ham United, with Liverpool eventually winning.\n\nUnited manager Ron Atkinson had signed him as a successor to Mark Hughes, who would be signing for Barcelona at the end of the season. He started 11 league games for United at the end of the 1985–86 season, but only scored once and United finished fourth.\n\nDavenport himself did not have a bad start to the 1986–87 season, but United's performances in the league were some of their worst since relegation in the 1973–74 season. By the beginning of November, Davenport had scored five goals in the league and another goal in the Football League Cup, but United were second from bottom in the league and battling against relegation when just months earlier they had been title contenders. Davenport scored his seventh goal of the season on 4 November 1986, but it came as United were thrashed 4–1 by Southampton in the fourth round replay of the League Cup. Ron Atkinson was then sacked and replaced by Alex Ferguson.\n\nFerguson was intent on building a new side, but there were few changes to the line-up while the 1986–87 season wore on and Davenport was undoubtedly one of the best players in the side that season. In December, he scored twice in successive 3–3 draws with title challengers Tottenham Hotspur and fellow strugglers Aston Villa. On 20 April 1987 he scored the only goal in a 1–0 home win over deadly rivals Liverpool which helped end Liverpool's defence of the league title, which was won by Everton. By now, United's relegation worries had long gone and they finished a healthy 11th in the final table. Davenport finished the season as United's top goalscorer with 16 goals (14 in the league and two in the League Cup) and for the 1987–88 season he would have a new strike partner in the shape of Brian McClair following the departure of Frank Stapleton.\n\nMcClair's arrival took the pressure off Davenport as the Scotsman was top scorer for a United side who finished second behind Liverpool in the league in 1987–88, scoring 24 goals in the league and 31 in all competitions. Davenport played in 34 out of 40 league games (13 as a substitute) and scored five league goals. In all competitions he made 40 appearances and scored six goals, vying with Norman Whiteside (normally a midfielder) for the role of United's second striker.\n\nHowever, the 1988 close season saw the return of Mark Hughes to Old Trafford after two years away and it was widely expected that Davenport would leave, but he began the 1988–89 season still a United player, and with a regular place in the first team. He scored in successive league games in September and was also on the scoresheet in a League Cup tie but he was then sold to newly promoted Middlesbrough in November 1988 for a fee of £750,000. He had scored his last goal for United on 28 September 1988, finding the net in a 1–0 Football League Cup second round first leg win over Rotherham United at Millmoor.\n\nDavenport walked straight into the Ayresome Park first team under manager Bruce Rioch but it took him 11 games to get off the mark, netting in a 1–0 victory against his previous employers Manchester United at Ayresome Park on 2 January 1989. However, he managed just four goals from 24 games in 1988–89 as Boro slipped back into the Football League Second Division just one season after promotion. 1989–90 was even tougher as Boro narrowly avoided a second successive relegation and Davenport managed a mere three goals from 35 league games, and by the end of the season Rioch had gone and Boro were now managed by Colin Todd.\n\nIn July 1990, he signed for their local rivals Sunderland who had just been promoted to the First Division.\n\nDavenport signed for nearby Sunderland in the summer of 1990, and formed an effective strike partnership with Marco Gabbiadini in the first half of the season. Despite this, Sunderland were relegated at the end of the season. In the 1991–92 season, Davenport continued to be a prominent player for Sunderland, scoring the only goal in the Wear-Tees Derby at Roker Park on 20 April 1992 with a first time volley from outside the 18-yard box, a goal that has been regarded as being one of the best scored at Roker Park in recent memory. In the same season, he played in the 1992 FA Cup Final at Wembley against Liverpool. Davenport scored the first goal in a famous 2–1 quarter-final victory over Chelsea during the road to Wembley and formed a partnership with striker John Byrne (who scored in every round bar the final itself).\n\nHe played one more season for Sunderland, in the new Division One, before moving north of the border to sign for Airdrieonians, who had just been relegated from the Scottish Premier Division.\n\nDespite the fact that he had played for Manchester United and Nottingham Forest in the 1980s, both teams who fairly regularly won trophies around that time, this was Davenport's first and only appearance in a major cup final.\n\nHe finished his playing career with spells at several lower division and Scottish League clubs including Airdrieonians, St Johnstone, Stockport County and Southport where he also held post as Caretaker manager, during which time Southport were unbeaten. \nAfter leaving Southport he joined Macclesfield as a player scoring his 100th league goal at Exeter City F.C in May 1998. After his football career finished, Peter Davenport went on to coach rugby and teach at St Anselms College in Birkenhead.\n\nAfter progressing as a coach and assistant manager he was appointed as manager after Sammy McIlroy left to become Northern Ireland manager in January 2000. However, he was sacked in December 2000 after refusing to work alongside newly appointed joint manager Gil Prescott.\n\nIn June 2001, Davenport was appointed as manager of Bangor City in the Welsh Premiership, where he took the team to three third-place finishes in four years qualifying for European competition 3 times. Bangor City memorably beat FK Sartid(Yugoslavia) in the UEFA cup first round in 2002. Davenport resigned from his post in December 2005 citing a lack of progress in the Welsh premier league and Bangor's unsuccessful application to build a new stadium as his reasons.\n\nHe was appointed manager of Colwyn Bay on 24 May 2006, resigning on 15 January 2007 to once again become manager of Southport. However, in April 2008 he was sacked as manager despite vying for a place in the Conference North playoff positions. His sacking an acrimonious one, blaming the chief executive, Haydn Preece, personally for his demise quoting that he felt he was \"stabbed in the back\".\n\nOn 11 May 2010, he found himself back in management as he was appointed as the assistant manager at Bradford Park Avenue only to find himself without a job by August the same year due to a change in personal circumstances.\n"}
{"id": "1820047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820047", "title": "Dysgenics", "text": "Dysgenics\n\nDysgenics (also known as cacogenics) is the study of factors producing the accumulation and perpetuation of defective or disadvantageous genes and traits in offspring of a particular population or species.\n\nThe adjective \"dysgenic\" is the antonym of \"eugenic\". It was first used 1915 by David Starr Jordan, describing the supposed dysgenic effects of World War I. Jordan believed that healthy men were as likely to die in modern warfare as anyone else and that war killed only the physically healthy men of the populace whilst preserving the disabled at home.\n\nIn the context of human genetics, a dysgenic effect is the projected or observed tendency of\na reduction in selection pressures and decreased infant mortality since the Industrial Revolution resulting in the increased propagation of deleterious traits and genetic disorders. Richard Lynn in his \"\" (1996) identified three main concerns: deterioration in health, in intelligence, and in conscientiousness.\n\nRui Nunes wrote that dysgenics is the selection of genetic traits that are \"commonly accepted as a disabling condition,\" and like eugenics, dysgenics can be positively selected or negatively selected. Nunes defined positive dysgenics as a selection that increases the number of individuals with dysgenic traits, while negative dysgenics is the discarding of genetics that cause disability.\n\nImproved medical and social care may possibly lead to increased incidence of genetic disorders. Practices such as genetic counselling and prenatal screening may counteract this effect.\n\nLynn argued that natural selection in pre-industrial societies favored traits such as intelligence and character but no longer does so in modern societies.\nThe hypothesized dysgenic decline in human intelligence is traced to a change in the distribution in fertility and intelligence by Woodley (2015).\n\nLynn (1996) has received both favourable and unfavourable reviews.\n\nLynn and Harvey (2008) suggest that designer babies may have an important counter-acting effect in the future. Initially this may be limited to wealthy couples, who may possibly travel abroad for the procedure if prohibited in their own country and then gradually spread to increasingly larger groups. Alternatively, authoritarian states may decide to impose measures such as a licensing requirement for having a child, which would only be given to persons of a certain minimum intelligence. The Chinese one-child policy was an example of how fertility can be regulated by authoritarian means. Geoffrey Miller claims the one-child policy was implemented to reduce China's population explosion, and \"to reduce dysgenic fertility among rural peasants.\" While the one-child policy made exceptions for rural families so that those families could have 2 children, this only applied \"if their first-born is a girl.\"\n\nCyril M. Kornbluth's 1951 short story \"The Marching Morons\" is an example of dysgenic fiction, describing a man who accidentally ends up in the distant future and discovers that dysgenics has resulted in mass stupidity. Mike Judge's 2006 film \"Idiocracy\" has the same premise, with the main character the subject of a military hibernation experiment that goes awry, taking him 500 years into the future. While in the Kornbluth short story, civilization is kept afloat by a small group of dedicated geniuses, in Judge's film, voluntary childlessness wipes out the bloodlines of above-average intelligence and leaves only automated systems to fill that role in \"Idiocracy\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820052", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820052", "title": "John Philpot Curran", "text": "John Philpot Curran\n\nJohn Philpot Curran (24 July 1750 – 14 October 1817) was an Irish orator, politician, wit, lawyer and judge, who held the office of Master of the Rolls in Ireland.\n\nBorn in Newmarket, County Cork, he was the eldest of five children of James Curran, seneschal of the Newmarket manor court, and Sarah, née Philpot.\n\nThe Curran family were said to have originally been named Curwen, their ancestor having come from Cumberland as a soldier under Cromwell; Curran's grandfather was from Derry, but settled in Cork. The Philpots were Irish judges, bishops and noblemen.\n\nA friend of the family, Rev. Nathaniel Boyse, arranged to have Curran educated at Midleton College, County Cork. He studied law at Trinity College, Dublin (he was described as \"the wildest, wittiest, dreamiest student\") and continued his legal studies at King's Inns and the Middle Temple. He was called to the Irish Bar in 1775. Upon his first trial, his nerves got the better of him and he couldn't proceed. His short stature, boyish features, shrill voice and a speech impediment hindered his career, and earned him the nickname \"Stuttering Jack Curran\".\n\nHowever, he could speak passionately in court on subjects close to his heart. He eventually overcame his nerves, and got rid of his speech impediment by constantly reciting Shakespeare and Bolingbroke in front of a mirror, and became a noted orator and wit.\n\nHis occasional tendency of challenging people to duels (he fought five in all) rather than compromise his values, along with his skilful oratory, quick wit and his championing of popular Irish causes such as Catholic Emancipation and the enlargement of the franchise, made him one of the most popular lawyers in Ireland. He also could speak Irish, still the language of the majority at that time. He wrote a large amount of humorous and romantic poetry.\n\nThe case which cemented Curran's popularity was that of Father Neale and St Leger St Leger, 1st Viscount Doneraile at the County Cork Assizes in 1780. Father Neale, an elderly Catholic priest in County Cork, criticised an adulterous parishioner. The adulterer's sister was mistress to Lord Doneraile, a cruel Protestant landlord. Doneraile demanded that Neale recant his criticism of his mistress' brother. When the priest stood by his principles, Doneraile horse-whipped him, secure in the confidence that a jury of the time would not convict a Protestant on charges brought forward by a Catholic. Curran, who had a passion for lost causes, represented the priest and won over the jury by setting aside the issue of religion. The jury awarded Curran's client 30 guineas. Doneraile challenged Curran to a duel, in which Doneraile fired and missed. Curran declined to fire.\n\nThe year 1796 saw Curran again attacking the character of a peer, the Earl of Westmeath, in a civil case. The circumstances were very different from the Doneraile case: Curran was defending another aristocrat, Augustus Bradshaw, allegedly the lover of Lady Westmeath, in a criminal conversation action. For once his eloquence went for nothing and despite his attacks on the characters of both Lord and Lady Westmeath, the jury awarded the enormous sum of £10000.\n\nHe earned the nickname \"The little Jesuit of St. Omer\" from wearing a brown coat outside a black one, and making pro-Catholic speeches. Started in 1780, his drinking club \"The Order of St. Patrick\" also included Catholic members along with liberal lawyers (who then had to be Protestant). The Club members were called \"The Monks of the Screw\", as they appreciated wine and corkscrews. Curran was its \"Prior\" and consequently named his Rathfarnham home \"The Priory\". The club had no link to the Order of St. Patrick established in 1783.\n\nA liberal Protestant whose politics were similar to Henry Grattan, he employed all his eloquence to oppose the illiberal policy of the Government, and also the Union with Britain. Curran stood as Member of Parliament (MP) for Kilbeggan in 1783. He subsequently represented Rathcormack between 1790 and 1798 and served then for Banagher from 1800 until the Act of Union in 1801, which bitterly disappointed him; he even contemplated emigrating to the United States. He also visited France in the 1780s and in 1802 at the time of the Treaty of Amiens, and considered that an Ireland ruled by the United Irishmen under French protection would be as bad as, if not worse than, British rule.\n\nHowever, he defended several of the United Irishmen in prominent high treason cases in the 1790s. Among them were the Revd. William Jackson, Archibald Hamilton Rowan, Wolfe Tone, Napper Tandy, The Sheares Brothers, Lord Edward Fitzgerald, William Orr and William Drennan. His difficulty in defending treason cases was that the Dublin administration could rely upon one witness to secure a conviction, while in England the law required that the prosecution had to use two or more witnesses. Consequently, his success depended on his lengthy examination of a single witness to try to find an inconsistency. He used this technique to great effect in the case of Patrick Finney, a Dublin tobacconist charged with treason in 1798, largely on the evidence of one James O'Brien. Curran destroyed O'Brien's credit and the judges, for once in sympathy with the accused, virtually ordered an acquittal. In the same year he unsuccessfully defended the journalist Peter Finnerty for seditious libel in publishing an attack on the judges who heard the William Orr case, and the Lord Lieutenant. Despite an eloquent speech by Curran, Finnerty was found guilty and sentenced to two years imprisonment.\n\nIn 1797 he was condemned as \"the leading advocate of every murderer, ruffian and low villain\".\n\nIn 1802, Curran won damages from Major Sirr, who in 1798 had arrested Irish revolutionaries Lord Edward FitzGerald, Thomas Russell and Robert Emmet. Curran spoke for a Protestant, who had volunteered against the Rebellion but had happened to cross Sirr by convincing a jury of the \"infamous\" character of Sirr's witness in a treason trial, so causing Sirr's case to collapse. Sirr and his colleague were alleged then to have used wrongful arrest, imprisonment incommunicado, and condemnation to hanging as means to extortion and personal satisfaction. Curran implied that these were typical of their methods and of the methods used to suppress the Rebellion. Niles' Register of 24 March 1821 describes Sirr as \"this old sinner, given to eternal infamy by the eloquence of Curran'\".\n\nHe was appointed Master of the Rolls in Ireland in 1806, following Pitt's replacement by a more liberal cabinet.\n\nHe retired in 1814 and spent his last three years in London. He died in his home in Brompton in 1817. In 1837, his remains were transferred from Paddington Cemetery, London to Glasnevin Cemetery, where they were laid in an 8-foot-high classical-style sarcophagus. In 1845 a white marble memorial to him, with a carved bust by Christopher Moore, was placed near the west door of St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin.\n\nHe married in 1774, to his cousin Sarah Creagh (1755–1844), the daughter of Richard Creagh, a County Cork physician. His eldest daughter Amelia was born in 1775, and eight more children resulted from the union, but his marriage disintegrated, his wife eventually deserting him and eloping with Reverend Abraham Sandys, whom Curran sued afterwards for criminal conversation in 1795.\n\nHis youngest daughter Sarah's romance with the rebel Robert Emmet, who was hanged for treason in 1803, scandalised Curran, who had tried to split them up. He was arrested and agreed to pass their correspondence on to Standish O'Grady, 1st Viscount Guillamore, the Attorney General for Ireland. In the circumstances he could not defend Emmet. He was suspected with involvement in Emmet's Rebellion, but was completely exonerated. However, his friend Lord Kilwarden was killed by the rebels, and he lost any faith in the beliefs of the United Irishmen. He disowned Sarah, who died of tuberculosis five years later.\n\nIn Dublin, he was a member of Daly's Club.\n\n\n\n\nOne night, Curran was dining with Justice Toler, a notorious \"hanging judge\".\n\nA wealthy tobacconist, Lundy Foot, asked Curran to suggest a Latin motto for his coach. \"I have just hit on it!', exclaimed Curran. \"It is only two words, and it will explain your profession, your elevation, and your contempt for the people's ridicule; it has the advantage of being in two languages, Latin and English, just as the reader chooses. Put up \"\"Quid Rides\"\" upon your carriage!\" (A quid was a lump of tobacco to be chewed, and also slang for a sovereign (stg£1); \"rides\" is Irish slang for \"has sexual intercourse\"; in Latin \"Quid rides\" means: \"so you may laugh\").\n\nCurran hated the Act of Union, which abolished the Parliament of Ireland and amalgamated it with that of Great Britain. The parliament had been housed in a splendid building in College Green, Dublin, which faced an uncertain future. \"Curran, what do they mean to do with this useless building? For my part, I hate the very sight of it!\" said one lord, who was for the Act of Union. \"I do not wonder at it, my lord\", said Curran contemptuously. \"I have never yet heard of a murderer who is not afraid of a ghost.\"\n\nCurran arrived at court late one morning. The judge, Viscount Avonmore, demanded an explanation. \"On my way to court, I passed through the market—\"\n\"Yes, I know, the Castle Market,\" interrupted Lord Avonmore.\n\"Exactly, the Castle Market, and passing near one of the stalls, I beheld a brawny butcher brandishing a sharp gleaming knife. A calf he was about to slay was standing, awaiting the deathstroke, when at that moment—that critical moment—a lovely little girl came bounding along in all her sportive mirth from her father's stall. Before a moment had passed the butcher had plunged his knife into the breast of—\"\n\"Good God! His child!\" sobbed the judge, deeply affected. Curran carried on:\n\"No, the calf, but your Lordship often anticipates.\"\n\nA prosecutor, infuriated by Curran's insults, threatened to put him in his pocket. \"If you do that,\" replied Curran, \"you will have more law in your pocket than you ever had in your head.\"\n\nIn debate with John Fitzgibbon, 1st Earl of Clare, Fitzgibbon rebutted one of Curran's arguments by saying \"If that be the law, Mr. Curran, I shall burn all my law books.\" To which he replied \"You had better read them first, my lord.\"\n\nOn another occasion Fitzgibbon objected that Curran was splitting hairs- surely the words \"also\" and \"likewise\" have exactly the same meaning ? \"Hardly, my Lord\". Curran replied. \"I remember when the great Lord Lifford presided over this Court. You also preside here, but you certainly do not preside likewise\".\n\nLord Byron said, after the death of Curran, \"I have heard that man speak more poetry than I have seen written\", and, in a letter to Thomas Moore, 1 October 1821, \"I feel, as your poor Curran said, before his death, 'a mountain of lead upon my heart, which I believe to be constitutional, and that nothing will remove it but the same remedy.'\".\n\nAn engraved portrait of Curran by J.J. Wedgwood was published in volume one of the first Irish biographical dictionary, \"Biographia Hibernica, a Biographical Dictionary of the Worthies of Ireland, from the earliest periods to the present time\", (London, 1819: Richard Ryan (biographer)).\nIn Fisher's Drawing Room Scrap Book, 1832, Letitia Elizabeth Landon includes an illustrative poem to the engraved portrait therein.\n\nKarl Marx recommended to Friedrich Engels that he read the speeches of John Philpot Curran in a letter of 10 December 1869: \"You must get Curran's Speeches edited by Davies [i.e. Thomas Davis] (London: James Duffy, 22, Paternoster Row). ... I consider Curran the only great lawyer (people's advocate) of the eighteenth century and the noblest personality, while Grattan was a parliamentary rogue, but because you will find quoted there all the sources for the United Irishmen. \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820055", "title": "Sur (magazine)", "text": "Sur (magazine)\n\nSur was a literary magazine published in Buenos Aires between 1931 and 1970.\n\n\"Sur\" was first published in 1931, with the assistance of a multidisciplinary team of collaborators. Its founder and main backer was Victoria Ocampo, and it was supported intellectually by the Spanish philosopher José Ortega y Gasset. Many of the earliest editions of \"Sur\" carry the colophon of Ortega's \"Revista de Occidente\". Notable contributors and sometime editors include Jorge Luis Borges, H.A. Murena, Adolfo Bioy Casares and Borges' Spanish brother-in-law Guillermo de Torre. The last issue was published in 1970.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820058", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820058", "title": "Bob Donaldson", "text": "Bob Donaldson\n\nRobert Donaldson (27 August 1868 – 28 April 1947) was a Scottish footballer. He played as a forward.\n\nDonaldson played for Airdrieonians and Blackburn Rovers before joining Newton Heath in 1892. He scored 66 goals in 147 appearances for Newton Heath. The first of these goals, scored against Blackburn Rovers on 3 September 1892, was also the club's first ever league goal. However, Newton Heath lasted just two seasons before demotion to the Second Division, where they remained when Donaldson retired from playing football in 1897.\n"}
{"id": "1820062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820062", "title": "Operation Focus", "text": "Operation Focus\n\nOperation Focus (, \"Mivtza Moked\") was the opening airstrike by Israel at the start of the Six-Day War in 1967. It is sometimes referred to as \"Sinai Air Strike\". At 07:45 on June 5, 1967, the Israeli Air Force (IAF) under Maj. Gen. Mordechai Hod launched a massive airstrike that destroyed the majority of the Egyptian Air Force on the ground. Following Syrian, Jordanian, and Iraqi attacks in retaliation, the Israeli Air Force proceeded to bomb air bases in those countries. By noon, the Egyptian, Jordanian and Syrian Air Forces, with about 450 aircraft, were destroyed. It was also very successful in disabling 18 airfields in Egypt, hindering Egyptian Air Force operations for the duration of the war, and remains one of the most successful air attack campaigns in military history.\n\nLaunching all but 12 of its nearly 200 operational jets in three main waves of aerial attacks, and several smaller waves in the days following the operation, a total of 452 aircraft were destroyed, most of them on the ground. That left the IAF in almost complete control of the skies, and it was able to assist the Israeli Defense Forces (IDF) ground units effectively.\n\nThe operational success was achieved by concentrating on the initial destruction of the runways with a new kind of weapon, a rocket assisted anti-runway warhead. The prototype French/Israeli anti-runway weapon program uses rocket braking over the target to point the warhead directly toward the runway being attacked; at a set altitude, a second accelerator rocket ignites and drives the warhead through the pavement of the runway before it detonates. The explosion creates a small crater over a large new sinkhole, meaning the damaged runway section must be completely removed before the sinkhole can be repaired rather than a normal bomb crater which is simply filled in and patched. Once the runways were disabled, entire air bases' complements of aircraft were effectively grounded and fell victim to subsequent attack waves, resulting in near-total Israeli air supremacy.\n\nEgyptian defensive infrastructure was extremely poor, and no airfields were yet equipped with hardened aircraft shelters capable of protecting Egypt's warplanes in the event of an attack. The Israeli warplanes headed out over the Mediterranean before turning toward Egypt. Meanwhile, the Egyptians hindered their own defense by effectively shutting down their entire air defense system: they were worried that rebel Egyptian forces would shoot down the plane carrying Field Marshal Amer and Lt-Gen. Sidqi Mahmoud, who were en route from al Maza to Bir Tamada in the Sinai to meet the commanders of the troops stationed there. In this event it did not make a great deal of difference as the Israeli pilots came in below Egyptian radar cover and well below the lowest point at which Egypt's SA-2 surface-to-air missile batteries could bring down an aircraft.\n\nThe first Israeli wave attacked 11 bases, catching much of the Egyptian Air Force on the ground and destroying them before they got airborne. The Israeli jets then returned to Israel, were \"quick-turned\" (refueled and re-armed) in 7 minutes 30 seconds, and left in a second wave that attacked 14 Egyptian bases and returned with only minor losses. They \"quick-turned\" again and departed in a third wave.\n\nThe opening stages of Operation Moked were a complete success: Egypt's air force of nearly 500 combat aircraft was destroyed in the space of three hours, with only minor losses to the Israeli Air Force. When Syria, Jordan, and Iraq attacked Israeli targets in retaliation for the airstrike on Egypt, their attacks were mainly directed at civilian targets and were largely ineffectual. In response many of the IAF planes headed for a third strike on Egypt were diverted en route to Syrian and Jordanian targets, and other IAF aircraft were sent against Arab ground forces in support of Israeli ground forces. By the end of the first day of the Six-day War, Israel had complete air superiority over Egypt, the Golan Heights, the West Bank, and the entire Sinai desert.\n\nOn the second day of the war (June 6) the IAF was used against Egyptian, Jordanian, Syrian, and Iraqi ground forces.\n\nOn the third day (June 7) the IAF destroyed hundreds of Egyptian vehicles trying to flee across the Sinai in convoys and trapped thousands more in narrow Sinai passes. By the end of the third day Jordan's air force of 34 combat aircraft had essentially ceased to exist and the Jordanian military was no longer in the fight.\n\nBy the sixth and final day (June 10) Syria had lost approximately 100 combat aircraft and the fighting was over.\n\nDuring the Six-Day War, the Israeli Air Force, with 250 combat aircraft at its disposal, employing 352 sorties, had prevailed over a coalition with approximately 600 combat aircraft. The IAF destroyed 452 enemy aircraft, including 79 in air combat, while losing 46 of its own. 24 Israeli pilots and hundreds of Arab pilots were killed.\n\n\n\n\nThe effectiveness of the operation showed how vulnerable fixed air base installations were to aerial attacks at the time. This caused many nations air forces to develop improved defensive measures against it, such as constructing hardened aircraft shelters to protect aircraft on the ground and establishing highway strips as alternative air bases.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820066", "title": "José Francisco de Isla", "text": "José Francisco de Isla\n\nJosé Francisco de Isla (April 24, 1703 – November 2, 1781) was a Spanish Jesuit, celebrated as a preacher and a humorist and satirist of the stamp of Cervantes.\n\nDe Isla's parents were José Isla de la Torre and Ambrosia Rojo. Although born accidentally in Vidanes (close to Cistierna) in the eastern Leonese mountain, he spent his childhood in the village of Valderas where his mother was a native, in the southern province of Leon. Premature, bright and highly gifted intellectually, he was a compulsive reader from childhood and graduated with his bachiller in law at eleven years old, according to his biographer Jose Ignacio de Salas. He entered the Society of Jesus at sixteen (1719) in the novitiate of Villagarcía de Campos, studying philosophy and theology at the University of Salamanca. At nineteen he translated \"History of the Emperor Teodosio de Flechier\". In collaboration with a teacher, also a Jesuit, Father Luis de Lozada (1681–1748), he wrote \"La juventud triunfante\" (Triumphant Youth) (Salamanca, 1727), a description in prose and verse, interspersed with four comedies by unnamed authors, on feasts celebrated, in recognition of the canonization of St. Aloysius Gonzaga and St. Stanislaus Kostka.\n\nDe Isla was a professor of philosophy and theology in Segovia, Santiago de Compostela, Medina del Campo and Pamplona. In Pamplona he translated \"The Compendium of the History of Spain\" by Father Duchesne and the \"Christian Year\" by Father Jean Croisset, also noted as a preacher in Valladolid and Zaragoza.\n\nHis work \"Triunfo del amor y del la lealtad: dia grande de Navarra\" was a subtly satirical depiction of the celebrations held at Pamplona to mark the visit of King Ferdinand VI. Initially, the book got an enthusiastic reception from some high-ranking readers - but a scandal broke out when, on closer reading, the real intent, biting and far from flattering, was revealed. De Isla was forced to leave his city and took up the life of an itinerant preacher, where he gained considerable popularity.\n\nThe Marquis de la Ensenada recommended him as a confessor of Queen Barbara of Braganza, but he refused. He published under the assumed name of Francisco Lobón de Salazar, benefiting from Aguilar and priest of Villagarcia de Campos. It was during this time that the most important of his works, the first part of \"Historia del famoso predicador fray Gerundio de Campazas, alias Zotes\" was written and published, originally under the name of his friend Don Francisco Lobon de Salazar, in 1758, but de Isla's authorship of it was soon revealed. The work, full of fresh humor, depicted a peasant boy who rises to prominence as a preacher due to his smooth tongue. It constituted a biting satire on the charlatanism and bombast of the popular preaching friars of the day. This is a novel very low in action, in which two elements are combined in the most unusual way: a satirical and burlesque narrative fiction about bad preachers, who still followed the pompous and pedantic style of the Gongoran Baroque preachers, and a didactic treatise of sacred oratory. In this combination the author also intersperses various stories and jokes., the influence of the picaresque novel and Cervantes style are seen in this work. What stands out most is its wit and irony, despite its virtually nonexistent action.\n\nIsla's reputation and his position in the history of Spanish literature are linked particularly to his satire against the preachers of his time. The Bishop of Palencia opposed the work that was printed in his diocese. As a result of this Isla published it in Madrid, and on February 22, 1758 the first part appeared under the title \"Historia del famoso predicador fray Gerundio de Campazas, alias Zotes\". Of the 1500 copies that were printed, 800 were sold within the first twenty-four hours, and the edition was exhausted in three days.\n\nThe Council of the Inquisition, on March 14, 1758, ordered the suspension \"until further notice\" of the reprint of the first part and the second printing. Later, the book was banned, by decree of May 20, 1760, after a two-year process. The second part appeared in clandestine edition in 1768 and the Inquisition also banned it by decree in 1766. Although Isla's purpose for writing the book was to improve preaching, one of the foundations of pastoral activity, the satirical book contributed to feeding the poor image members of religious orders had among the popular classes, and was used as argument by the anticlericalism in the following century. It is now considered a masterpiece of Spanish literature.\n\nFor several years de Isla lived in Villagarcia de Campos (Valladolid), until the Company was expelled from Spain in 1767. He left Pontevedra very ill and passed through Corsica and various Italian cities until he settled in Bologna, where he was hosted by the Tedeschi counts in their Palazzo. There, he had regular dealings with Spanish students housed in the Royal College of Spain, founded by Cardinal Gil Álvarez de Albornoz. During his exile he continued his correspondence in a straightforward, homely and affectionate style with his sister Doña Maria Francisca de Isla, correspondence that formed the volume \"Cartas familiares\" (Family letters). In Bologna he entertained himself by performing various translations, such as \"Cartas de Jose Antonio Constantini\" (Letters from Jose Antonio Constantini), in eight volumes, which he completed in the Papal States, \"Arte de encomendarse a Dios\" by Father Antonio Francesco Bellati, and the famous picaresque novel by Alain René Lesage, \"Gil Blas de Santillana\", in whose prologue he accused the French author of having stolen and translated several Spanish novels of the genre to compose his own. This translation was printed in 1787 and 1788. The translation was so successful that no less than fifty-six reprints were made before the twentieth century.\n\nDe Isla died in Bologna in extreme poverty in 1781. His last book, \"Cartas de Juan de la Encina\" (Letters from Juan de la Encina), published posthumously (1784), constituted a sharp condemnation of the practices of the Spanish physicians of his time. In 1803 the priest, José Ignacio de Salas printed his biography in Madrid and in the Ibarra workshop, under the title \"Compendio histórico de la vida, carácter moral y literario del célebre padre Isla con la noticia analítica de todos sus escritos\" (Compendium history of the life, moral and literary character of the famous father Isla with analytical notes on all his writings), paid for by his devoted sister, who was also the editor of many other works by her brother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820073", "title": "Dick Duckworth (footballer, born 1882)", "text": "Dick Duckworth (footballer, born 1882)\n\nRichard Hargreaves Duckworth (born 14 September 1882) was an English footballer. He played as a wing half.\n\nDuckworth came up through the Manchester United youth system and played his first senior level game for the club on 19 December 1903 against Gainsborough Trinity. He helped club win the 1908 league championship and the 1909 FA Cup, and scored 11 goals in 254 appearances for the club. He played his final game for the club on 15 November 1913 against Middlesbrough, and retired soon after due to injury.\n\n"}
{"id": "1820077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820077", "title": "David Charteris, 12th Earl of Wemyss", "text": "David Charteris, 12th Earl of Wemyss\n\nFrancis David Charteris, 12th Earl of Wemyss and 8th Earl of March (19 January 1912 – 12 December 2008), styled Lord Elcho from 1916 to 1937, was a Scottish peer, landowner and conservationist. From 1946 to 1991, he served as chairman of the board and then president of the National Trust for Scotland.\n\nHe was born in Belgravia in London, the eldest son of Lady Violet Manners, daughter of the 8th Duke of Rutland, and Capt. Hugo Francis Charteris, Lord Elcho, who was killed in action in 1916 in Egypt while serving in the First World War. He was educated at Eton College and at Balliol College, Oxford (BA 1933), and also studied agriculture at both Oxford and Cambridge as a postgraduate student. At age 25, he succeeded his grandfather in the family titles in 1937.\n\nWemyss was commissioned into the Lovat Scouts (Territorial Army) as a 2nd Lieutenant in 1932. He was promoted to Lieutenant in 1935 and transferred to the TA Reserve of Officers in 1937, and served as a Colonial Administrator in Basutoland from 1937 until 1944. During the Second World War, he did not rejoin the Lovat Scouts but instead served as a major with Basuto troops in the African Auxiliary Pioneer Corps from 1941 to 1944 in North Africa, on account of his fluency in Sotho.\n\nHe was Deputy Lieutenant from 1959 to 1967 and Lord Lieutenant of East Lothian from 1967 until 1987, and a Justice of the Peace since 1957. He was appointed as Lord High Commissioner to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1959, 1960 and 1977. He held the honorary appointment of Lord Clerk Register from 1974 until 2007.\n\nHe was a Lieutenant in the Royal Company of Archers. He was Chairman of the Council of the National Trust for Scotland 1947 to 1967, President from 1967 to 1991, and had been President Emeritus since 1991. He was Chairman of the Royal Commission on the Ancient and Historical Monuments of Scotland from 1949 to 1984, President of the Royal Scottish Geographical Society from 1958 to 1962, and President of the National Bible Society of Scotland from 1960 to 1983. He was formerly a director of Standard Life and of Scottish Television.\n\nHe married, first, in 1940, Mavis Lynette Gordon Murray (d. 1988), daughter of Edwin Edward Murray, of Hermanus, Cape Province, South Africa. They had two daughters and two sons. The elder son, Iain David Charteris, Lord Elcho & Methil, was born on 20 June 1945 and died in a motor accident on 3 April 1954. Their younger daughter Caroline Letty Charteris was born on 5 November 1946 and died on 22 November 1946. Lord Wemyss married, secondly, in 1995, Shelagh Kathleen Kennedy, \"née\" Thrift.\n\nHe lived in Gosford House, Longniddry, East Lothian. He died on 12 December 2008 at the Royal Victoria Hospital, Edinburgh, aged 96. He is buried in the family enclosure on the north side of Aberlady Churchyard. Lady Wemyss died in 2019.\n\nHis younger son, James Donald Charteris, Lord Neidpath (b. 22 June 1948), succeeded his father.\n\nWemyss was made a Knight of the Thistle in 1966. He held an honorary LLD from the University of St Andrews awarded in 1953, and an honorary DUniv from the University of Edinburgh awarded in 1983.\n"}
{"id": "1820089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820089", "title": "Balkan Idols", "text": "Balkan Idols\n\nBalkan Idols: Religion and Nationalism in Yugoslav States () is a book by Vjekoslav Perica. It was first published in 2002 by Oxford University Press.\n\nThe text explores the political roles of religious organizations in the republics of the former Yugoslavia. The notion that a \"clash of civilizations\" played a central role in creating aggression is rejected by the author. The book was described as a significant work in several reviews in academic journals.\n\n\"\"Vjekoslav Perica brilliantly recounts the role of religious narratives, institutions, organizations, and, most importantly, church or religious authorities both in constituting the three dominant identities of Yugoslavs and, in turn, in appropriating those narratives and identities for the destruction of the Yugoslav state and the possibility of civic and civil life in it... Fundamentalism is the enemy of all that makes democracies functional and civility possible, whether in secular, religious, nationalist, patriotic, or ethnic clothing. Perica's contribution to our understanding of this phenomenon is immense.\"\"\n––Journal of the American Academy of Religion.\n\n\"\"Vjekoslav Perica's masterfully written and extensively researched book fills an important gap in the historical scholarship on twentieth century southeastern Europe.\"\"\n––Association of Contemporary Church Historians\n\n\"\"[The] merging of national and religious identity defines the objective of Perica’s monograph: rather than attempting to explain the dissolution of Yugoslavia by factors related to religion, the aim is to trace the influence of religious institutions on nation-formation and political legitimacy in Yugoslavia.\"\"\n––Peter Korchnak, in: The Global Review of Ethnopolitics \n\n"}
{"id": "1820099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820099", "title": "Body Harvest", "text": "Body Harvest\n\nBody Harvest is an action-adventure video game for the Nintendo 64 video game console, developed by DMA Design. It was intended to be a Nintendo 64 launch title, but was delayed due to its original publisher, Nintendo, having issues with the game's violent themes, and eventual dropping of the title, leaving DMA to find a new publisher. It was eventually published by Midway Games and Gremlin Interactive in 1998.\n\nIn \"Body Harvest\", players assume the role of a genetically engineered soldier, Adam Drake, who must investigate and eliminate an alien attack force that has returned once every 25 years to \"harvest\" the human population of Earth for their organic material. Being in possession of a time travel device, Drake must return to the past and do battle in five areas over a 100-year period that covers World War I-era Greece, Java in the 1940s, the United States in the 1960s, Siberia in the 1990s, and the near future (2016). The game is non-linear, as players can go anywhere and do anything within the limits of the game's boundaries.\n\nThe opening text tells of how an alien force has harvested the population of Earth over a 100-year time period. Every 25 years they would land and imprison whole areas in shields that prevented anyone from leaving and any outside help getting in. The aliens would harvest the population of the area within a time limit of one day before moving on to another area. After repeating this several times they would teleport back to their homeworld, an artificially created comet, before returning exactly 25 years later as it has completed its orbit around the nearby star systems back to earth. Greece was the first targeted area in 1916, southern Spain was second, eastern Canada was third, and the south island of Japan was fourth. In 1941 the first targeted area was Java. In 1966 it was the U.S. (presumably somewhere in the southwest in between Nevada and Arizona) and finally in 1991 it was Siberia. The player only has to stop the aliens in the first area that they target in order to save every future targeted area of that time period.\n\nThe opening cutscene shows Station Omega, an orbital space station containing Earth's last survivors. The year is 2016 and the aliens have returned to destroy the last remnant of the human race. The aliens attack and board Station Omega, chasing Adam Drake, the game's only playable character, through the corridors. Even though Adam defeats the initial invaders he is wounded in the process. He is ready to board Alpha I, the time traveling vehicle developed at Station Omega, when more aliens appear and try to force their way into the boarding chamber. The monitors show his colleague, Daisy Hernandez, telling Adam to get into the Alpha I without letting the aliens gain access to it. As the aliens force the door open, Adam dives through the air lock and fires a single shot into the control panel; this closes the door and prevents the aliens from pursuing him further. As they escape the station in the Alpha I, they are pursued by Alien fighter craft, but open up a time portal and escape. Meanwhile, back on Station Omega, an Alien is shown holding a drop of Adam's blood and eyes it strangely. This is a subtle hint as to where Adam's nemesis, Tomegatherion, is cloned from.\n\nEach level in \"Body Harvest\" requires the player to stop the aliens from slaughtering everyone in the shield area. The player will navigate the map, often coming across towns where aliens will teleport in to attack the town and harvest civilians. Aliens will also warp in frequently to attack the player and can appear from the land, air or sea. Generally, gameplay consists of completing a series of missions. Many of these are very basic, e.g. reach a certain area, but others can be more complicated and require careful thought and skill. Once the player completes a mission they are prompted to check the map to find out what the next mission is.\n\nThere is a meter at the bottom of the screen that represents civilian casualties. If too many civilians die for any reason (including friendly-fire), the aliens will destroy the area and the mission will have failed. Generally, only Harvester aliens deliberately kill civilians, however the player must be careful not to shoot or run down any civilians in the process of rescuing them. The player must react to Harvester Waves quickly, as if the aliens manage to harvest 8 humans in a single wave they will create an extremely dangerous 'Mutant' creature, which immediately attacks the player regardless of location. There are also several optional missions that require saving people from the aliens, and although one can fail these missions and still progress through the game, doing so will result in significant human casualties.\n\nThe use of vehicles is a key aspect of this game. Vehicles provide significant protection from alien attacks and allow the player to travel at a far greater speed than on foot. Adam can still fire most weapons from within a vehicle, although many vehicles are equipped with powerful weapons of their own. Vehicles take damage independently of Adam and can be repaired with health pickups spawned by defeating larger aliens. Specific vehicles are often required to advance - for example, boats allow travel over bodies of water, while planes and helicopters allow travel through the air. Each vehicle has a unique combination of top speed, armor and fuel capacity, inviting players to consider their options carefully. Vehicles range from mundane civilian forms of transport to powerful military hardware - the player will pilot tanks, armored cars and aircraft as frequently as cars, trucks and motorcycles. In addition, the Alpha I (the ship the player uses to travel through time) becomes a powerful armored hovercraft during boss battles and for the entirety of the Comet level.\n\nThere are many buildings in each stage which can be entered on foot, many of which are essential to talk to plot characters and acquire necessary items. Buildings also contain health pickups, new weapons other than your standard Pistol are a Machine gun, Shotgun, Rifle and Rocket launcher that each use different types of ammunition. The buildings also have Ammunition pickups and fuel cans (of which one will refuel a vehicle once). With thorough exploration, rarer items can be found including alien artifacts and 'weapon crystals', three of which combine to form a technologically advanced powerful laser weapon unique to that level.\n\nThe eventual goal of each level is to destroy the Shield Generator to remove the shield that surrounds the region. To do this, the player must first destroy a number of Alien Processors, which act as sub-bosses. Defeating an Alien Processor opens a gateway to the next area and allows the player to save their progress. Once the Shield Generator itself has been destroyed, the player immediately faces that level's boss. Once the boss is defeated, the player travels forward in time and to the next level.\n\n\"Body Harvest\" was one of 13 games demoed at the Nintendo 64's unveiling at the 1995 Shoshinkai show, though it was not in playable form and was described by journalists as one of the most incomplete of the 13 games.\n\nThe development team were very enthusiastic about the Nintendo 64 as a development platform. Project leader John Whyte commented, \"It's been really well designed and we haven't even scratched the surface. It's scary. The drawing chip is a masterpiece of engineering. There are no hassles for developers compared to other systems. You don't have to worry about clipping. It just handles it.\"\n\nIn contrast to DMA Design's previous publisher, Psygnosis, who showed minimal interest in the development of their games, Nintendo frequently directed the development team to make major changes to \"Body Harvest\"s gameplay and visual style. The language barrier between the Japanese publisher and British developer added to the difficulty of implementing these changes, as the developers sometimes struggled to understand what Nintendo wanted from them; Whyte cited as an example a message in which Nintendo told them to make the graphics \"more materialistic.\" DMA Design's head, David Jones, described their relationship with Nintendo: \n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the game, rating it four stars out of five, and stated that \"Although not as clever or polished as DMA's own \"Space Station: Silicon Valley\", \"Body Harvest\" is an unsettling and thoroughly enjoyable game with lots of original and fun features.\"\n\nThe game received \"average\" reviews according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n"}
